"Anastasia" is my 2nd favorite Disney Animation movie (My most favorite one is "The Quest for Camelot")!! It's got fun and lovely songs, very nice animation characters, and lots of excitement! This movie is great to watch with your family.
This movie tells of the lost Russian princess Anastasia and her goal to find her true identity and how her family was killed by the curse of the evil sorceror, Rasputin (The revolution was the curse). When the revolution started in Russia, Anastasia, the royal family's youngest daugther, escapes barely with her life, but loses her memory when she tried to get on the train to Paris with her royal Grandmother. Anastasia falls from the train and hits her head but lives.
Demetre, who was the kitchen boy when the fateful day had happened,and his assistant, Vladimer hears that the Empress(which is the Grandmother) offers a huge amount of money for the one who finds her lost Russian princess, Anastasia. Demetree and Vladimer tries to find someone who looks like Anastasia to fool the Empress and get away with the money. They meet Anastasia, who calls herself Ania, and she is trying to find a way to get to Paris. The reason she wants to go to Paris is because her Grandmother had given her a music box with a key to make the music play.Ania (or Anastasia) has the key but does not remember how she had gotten it there or what it was for. On the key was an inscription: Together in Paris. Demetre and Vladimer is very suprised at Ania's likeness with Anastasia and 'tricks' her into pretending like Anastasia. They go off to Paris together but little do they know that Rasputin was still alive (but was falling apart into pieces because he had sold his soul to destroy the royal Russian family!) and had sent his evil minions to kill Anastasia. For if Anastasia was killed, Rasputin would no longer be 'falling apart'.
Can Anastasia and her 'friends' escape from the ghostly demons? Would Anastasia be able to recover her true identily? 
I love this movie and it's wonderful to watch again and again! In my opinion, I think this movie had the best animation. I especially liked Rasputin's assistant, Bartok the Bat. Bartok wasn't really bad. I also liked Demetre, even though he WAS rather greedy at first, he became one of the heros in this movie. I very much recommend you to watch it!