My title says it all....
This film(and Kurt Russell's role in it) got NONE of the respect and accolade it deserves!  It fell quickly below the radar not long after hitting theaters hence my description of it as a "sleeper".  So glad to see Amazon giving it the light of day in DVD and instant formats.

But let's go back a few years.  I "fell over" this film about 5-6 years after it came and went in theaters - just like I do every other gol'darn movie I loved!! LOL. Same with "Back To The Future" - saw it 8 years after the 1985 version came out and never . . looked . .  back.  That is my favorite movie saga - but I digress.

"Breakdown" is shorter than the average cinematic release at a bit over 90 minutes, but due to killer pacing and blending of scenes and the sheer raw emotion and suspense in this thing all sense of time is suspended!  You become "Jeff Taylor" in this career-changing-cross-country-road-rage-playing-dumb-locals-abduction-conflict-redemption roller coaster.  The plot itself certainly is NO sleeper!

I invite any/all comments on the following issues I raise over some plot scenario and "technicalities" of Breakdown:

#1.  The catalyst for the whole film:  Jeff Taylor and his wife are cruising across the New Mexico desert when Taylor has an unquenchable thirst.  He adjusts himself in the driver's seat in preparation to reach for a thermos in the backseat, takes one final glance ahead of him, turns his head back and retrieves the thermos.  Meanwhile...

Black dust F-150 pulls across highway in front of the Taylors.  A near collision and violent swerve takes place as Jeff evades the truck that has appeared of of "nowhere".  QUESTION:  Was this near collision entire Taylor's fault - OR - did the F-150 not see the Jeep before entering a highway - OR - was it a combination of Taylor's distraction  and the DELIBERATE ACT of the F-150 STAGING this near collision??  Your thoughts, anyone?

#2. IMDB mentions tons of accidental intrusions into the film by cameramen and mic booms, all of which I have yet to notice only if I run the DVD at 2 frames per second.

My biggest technicality is the time of day itself.  During the scene in my #1, and subsequent scenes at Belle's Diner, the confrontation between Jeff, the trucker, and the Sheriff, the chase scene with "Earl"(Gainey) into the river, and the small town and the truck stop scene where Taylor manages to stow away under Red's truck, it seems almost no regard was given to time of day or at least taking the position of the sun into account as it progresses across the sky.

The initial road-rage incident seems to take place mid-day.  While Jeff is waiting by the road for his wife's return, then discovers the loose wires beneath his Jeeps engine, it seems like late afternoon.  During the first scene at Belles, the sun seems to be "higher".  As Jeff spots Red's truck in the distance and prepares to pursue him, it seems only an hour or so before sunset.

When Earl chases Jeff up the mountain road and Jeff escapes by driving down the embankment into the river, it's broad daylight again!  Ditto the seen in "Brackett" where Jeff is wired the ransom money.

First of all - I do believe that the events portrayed in this film could have taken place over a 24 hour period - no doubt.  But the inconsistent daylight from scene to scene(perhaps deliberate) skews our sense of time.  Am I just "overthinking" these aspects? Or is this a good point?  Your thoughts?

Overall, "Breakdown" is a movie I will never bore of.  It's a film most people fail to think of when enumerating Kurt Russell's roles, but boy are they missing out!