If you're looking for nostalgic film noir circa 1950, an excellent plot, excellent characters, gritty and realistic in some ways, with life lessons and a moving ending, then "The Asphalt Jungle" is for you.  Generally pre-70s movies come across as corny to the modern viewer and hard to relate to, but Asphalt Jungle resonated perfectly with me.  It's setting is a big city, when/where most of the criminals are white, routinely wear suits and hats, and everybody, including the cops, carry 38 special revolvers (no Glocks!)  It's got that vintage feel to it, yet it's a compelling story!

I loved the characters.  Sterling Hayden is a revelation.  He plays "Dix," the big, menacing "hick from Kentucky" who is recruited to be the "hooligan" on a crime job.  I.e. he's in charge of the muscle and intimidation.  He comes across as surprisingly physcial, tough and confident (because I learned later, that Hayden WAS tough and confident, being a WWII paratrooper special-ops guy!!)  Yet his heart lies in Kentucky and he gets back there in the end, in what is to me a perfect, moving, touching ending.  Sam Jaffe as Doc (the German heist mastermind) is a great character, as is Jean Hagen (as Doll, Dix's poor, kind-of girlfriend who is in love with him), and James Whitmore as Gus Minissi, the tough, misshapen diner-owner who becomes the getaway driver.  I won't discuss all the characters because, really, EVERY one of the 15-some characters in this Noir morality play has something of worth to add to the plot.  The characters make it interesting!

Louis Calhern is phenomenal as the corrupt lawyer who tries to pull a fast one.  His spoiled "girl-toy" mistress is played by a young, dazzling, innocent Marilyn Monroe.  Some may fault her acting at this early stage of her career, but for a bit part she really lights up the screen.  You can see why old Louis is cheating on his wife to be with her, meaning that her type of beauty and charm still resonates to the modern viewer.  But Calhern's infatuation with a much younger babe (and his dream of escaping with her, with the loot from the heist) provides his downfall in the end.  And likewise, all the other criminals in the gang get their tragic comeuppences in different ways at the film's conclusion.  LOTS of life lessons for modern people are contained in this gem!

I guess that the biggest impression I had of the Asphalt Jungle is that it managed to give me a window into 1950's urban America, yet still entertained me, moved me, and had me enjoying its plot.  I general I don't like identifying with criminal characters in films, but if you can't identify with the "issues" facing the motley yet charismatic characters in this movie, then you don't have blood in your veins.  It's a 5 stars flim for me and considered by many to be the best film ever made in the "Noir" genre.