Interested in a thoughtful, sophisticated horror/suspense tale? This six-part mini-series will not dissapoint even the most hardcore genre fan.

First of all, don't read anything more about the plot. It's a good tale that works best with no knowledge at all of what it is about or what is going on. There are many terrific surprises and each carefully plotted episode builds upon the other and concludes in a satisfying end. Each episode has a slow, stately pace that adds to the spiderweb of intrique. There are more than a few unsettling ideas in here that are testament to a crafty writer.

There are a couple of flaws. For one, the actors are so serious and grave that they seem bland compared to the USA's wisecracking, action heroes. There's little chemistry between the detectives, not because they are poor actors or the dialogue is weak, but because they are acting serious. Our heroes have had their personal lives sucked dry by the vamps -- they have no life or passions beyond hunting them. But it's a different take from most detective shows that take the easy approach and therefore fill the show with sarcastic buddy movie banter that doesn't fit the overall tone of the show. Some may take this Brit approach as boring. I prefer the term "realistic" and applaud the decision. However, I must admit that I only liked the characters the second time I saw the series and had time to look deeper at them. The first time I even had several of the characters confused, since they aren't as distinct as cliched characters from other series.

Also, some complain that it is only 6 episodes. However, each episode has so many ideas and dialogue that they individually feel more like movies (so they feel long). Also, the end is throughly done, plotted and concludes the whole series nicely. After it is over, it feels like a full meal compared to other TV series that feel cotton-candy like. Yes, I wish for a sequel. But it ends nicely and doesn't require one.

The lack of DVD extras is infuriating, especially considering that you want to know more about the inventive minds who came up with such a devious plot.

When you do see it, you'll see why BBC shows are often a class above their Yankee cousins. While inspired by the "X-Files", it expands upon it with a dour, somber mood and populates the cast with nuanced and divided characters. Better yet, the dialogue and unsettling moral dilemnas really make it a standout in the entire genre. I'm a huge "Buffy" fan and appreciate Whedon's postmodern winking, action-packed update of the genre. This is a different twist: grim, political, and psychological. It's well worth the buy.

FYI -- Don't judge this by the cover. The box cover seems like an "X-Files" knockoff, when this is not the case. The characters are very unlike Mulder of Scully.