This movie "strikes-a-chord" with teens everywhere. This is the epiotomy of what high school life is all about. Listen-up kids, will you raise your hand as I call out your name:...Jack?...(here!)... John?...(here!)...Billy?...(here!)...Bob?...(here!) BUELLER? (not here, of course)...Frye?...Frye?...Has anyone seen FRYE? Oh yeah, we saw him with this hot chick at "31 Flavors" the other night. No. Acutually, he's at home in bed contemplating getting off his....as to whether he'll pick-up Ferris and his girlfriend Sloane taking them to someplace cool, free from the doldrums of high school. This voodoo economics quiz will begin in.... Ok, you can all put your #2 pencils down. There's no homework assignment, for today. (OH, YEAH!!! YIPPEE!!!) The bell just rang and schools out. As you hurry to pick up your things and head for home, you can't wait to wait pop this DVD in, to watching a teen-classic: "Ferris Bueller's Day Off."
There's a whole lot of controversey swirling-around the student-body, when there're rumors that Ferris has had his 9th sick-day of the school-year. Can you believe it? Niether can we. How does a sneaky son-of a.....like Ferris get away with it. I'm getting so jealous of this......getting anything he wants, to having everything under-the-sun: driving around town in these exotic-cars; fast-women (to fulfill his every freakin' whim); and the friendly town's people (who are more than willing to let-go and forgive, for all the mistakes he makes throughout his adolescense). Why can't he be like the rest of us losers out there: who are constantly getting our lunch money stolen from the jocks on the football team, who are there for the sole-purpose of puting shaving-cream down our gym shorts; and to the stupid cheerleaders (heartless wenches) who repeatedly refuse our invitations to go on a date with us to the "Junior Prom." We all have to go class unlike Ferris, lest we go to detention and/or summer school. We hate summer school, it sucks bigtime! Frankly, we're getting sick and tired of it. Therefore, we're all looking-up to you...Ferris, as our hero to serve as an example for all the injustices that take place in our school. Go on! Have a good time with your friends! We don't care as long as you guys promise us, you'll be back in time to take us to the stomp. 
Meanwhile, as the trio rolled into Downtown Chicago with the Ferarri's controls at Ferris' fingertips, with his steady girlfriend Sloane at his side, and a buddy Cameron who's  reluctant to relinquish his daddy's most prized-possession, they're on their way - to bim, bombay! This is going to be a funfilled day at the parade, horray! On to the muesems we go, to see a litte bit of Warhol, Picasso, and Van Goh. From the Chicago Stock Exchange, to the breath-taking views of the city from the top of the Sears Tower. These extra-curricular activities are making us all hungry, as we get a bite to eat with the "Sausage King of Chicago" that is. SO CLAP YOUR HANDS TOGETHER, AND MAKE SOME NOISE!!! For this is the best movie by far, I give it ***5-stars***.