I found this film in the $5 bin at Walmart and thought, "Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker in a movie together? How in the world could this possibly even get down to $5?" Then I watched it. "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" is one of my favorite movies, and I adored the chemistry between McConaughey and Kate Hudson. It was like those two were meant to be together in real life, much like my other favorite movie characters (ex. Nia Long and Larenz Tate, Gabrielle Union and Idris Elba, Bill Cosby and Phylicia Rashad). However, I did not see that same chemistry between Parker and McConaughey. I thought they gave it a great shot, but I didn't believe those two would ever date. Something about the two of them just seemed off to me.

On top of that, through the whole movie, I just couldn't picture McConaughey living at home. He seemed more suited to play Bradley Cooper's role as the wanderer. Justin Bartha should've played the lead. He could've pulled this role off. Zooey Deschanel's role was annoying and didn't really add to the script. I lost interest in her being the cranky roommate who wanted to kill a mockingbird almost instantly and didn't even think Bartha's character would give her the time of day. I liked the relationship between McConaughey's character Tripp and Tyrel Jackson Williams' character Jeffrey though. I wish somebody would've showed a picture or a scene from his last girlfriend because since we really had so little backstory, their relationship seemed like a last minute decision.

The only two people I really enjoyed in this film were Tripp's parents, Terry Bradshaw as Al and Kathy Bates as Sue. I thought their problem with not wanting to let their kid go and not knowing how to get to know each other again as a couple--not just as parents--was a valid and interesting story. I think the bigger problem is that this film was hard for me to enjoy anyway because I think it's so pitiful to be a grown-up living in your parents' home. Turn 18, get out!

This wasn't the movie for me, but watching Bradshaw stroll around the fishtank naked is the only reason I'm giving it more than one star. That was funny stuff.