This team up of horror legends Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi is a very unicque barocque masterpiece of terror.
Being so much more than a "horror flick" this is problably the best of its genre ever produced.
Storyline sum-up (spoilers)
American honeymooners Joan and Peter Allison (Jaqueline Wells and David Manners) meet the mysterious but well intentioning Dr Vitus Verdegast (Lugosi) in Hungary, a hungarian psychiatrist on his way to visit an "old friend". After a road accident on a dark storm night they seek refuge in the house of Verdegasts friend, an exentric architecht and organist, Hjalmar Poelzig (Karloff).
Poelzig, an old commander of a WWI prison, has built his modernistic house on the sight of the fort and prison were thousands of men were killed during the war and the hill is surronded with wartime cemetarys.
After a while we find out that Poelzig and Verdegast are life-long enemys as Poelzig sent Verdegast to prison and married his wife, and now the good doctor has returned after 15 years of torture, to seek revenge.
As if that was not enough, Poelzig is also a High Priest of Satan who plans to sacrifice Joan at the next Black Mass, during the dark of the moon...
Both Karloff and Lugosi does the performances of their careers, Karloff as the devil-worshipping architect, a part whom he plays with a superb friendly restraint and Lugosi as the good doctor, blind with hate and lust of revenge. Jaqueline Wells and David Manners does a good job too, although there parts are vital for the story they are really boring.
Another great star of the film is the sets, Poelzigs house in neo-modernistic style, resembling a tomb with bare walls and slide doors is a gem of cinematic history.
In "Frankenstein" or "Dracula" for example, the aspects of horror is amplified with the weird outside settings, crumbling trees, spooky shadows and bare rocks, but here the nature surrounding Poelzigs house is so beatiful and innocent that the horror feels more real and frightening. Caulm forests, fresh pines and green spruces provides an excellent set for the film.
In no other horror film you will feel the mood and suspence as you do here. The horror is gradualy built up, with the touch of a master. The movie is actually, after nearly 70 years, really frightening. Not graphic, with gore or cheaps fright but with a suspence that will scare you to death.
And the we have the music,the score(s) is really a masterpice. A superb collection of background scores helps to create the eerie, gothic mood that will stay with you long after the movie is over.
The story is excellent, it contains many things that really touches the border of the extreme, and surely it must have been very daring in 1934; hate, revenge, incest, torture, devil worshipping, murder, pain and frustrated sexuality. The climax is one of the most exciting movie climaxes ever and many of the above mentioned things is displayed fairly graphic.
The film is worth a place among the horror masterpieces of history by Karloffs masterfull performance alone, but together with fantastic sets, marvelous music, creeping, sinister suspence and an eerie, chilling mood that won't leave you for weeks "The Black Cat" is truly the best horror film ever made.