If ever the label "novel for television" applied, it's to Centennial. This incredible mini-series puts the epic in sagas, telling the amazing story of one Colorado town over two hundred years of history. What strikes you is how each story easily flows right into another, showing how people can interact in real life and in this amazing area. We start in the 1700's with two trappers and end in modern (1978) Colorado and in between we see the ups and downs, good and bad of the development of American life. It's truly remarkable how it works:

A French trapper (Robert Conrad) and a Dutch settler (Richard Chamberlain) meet and form a partnership in the wildreness of what will be Colorado in 1795. We move to a Mennoite, Levi Zendt (Gregory Harrison), wrongfully banished from his home and soon heading to the land, losing his love but later gaining an Indian wife (Christina Raines). We also see Hans Brumbraugh (Alex Karras) settling a farm while Englishman Oliver Seccombe (Timothy Dalton) sets up a homesteading and cattle ranch business. A shameful moment occurs as a manical soldier (Richard Crenna) leads a massacre of Indians. His son (Cliff DeYoung) tries to redeem the name by launching a cattle drive with some friends. He and Jim Lloyd (William Artheron) eventually work for Seccombe despite worries of his illegal ways. After a blizzrd kills many of his cattle and exposes his dealings, Seccombe succumbs to a hard fate. His widow (Lynn Redgrave) takes over and eventually marries Jim. Meanwhile, the Wendells, a family of con artists, arrive in town and soon find their way to fortune with a wicked crime. We see more of the town as it handles the problems of the past from range wars to outlaws to the Dust Bowl before a major election brings the story to a close.

As you can tell, it's an incredible epic and the show gets it all together in an amazing way. The production is top notch and amazing as we watch the town grow from a small settlement to a prospering city. The actors handle it well, giving it their all. Conrad and Chamberlain are in fine form and DeYoung, Artheron and Karras handle their major roles in a good way, making you see the hardships of the time and having you emphathize with them. Anthony Zerbe is terrific as Wendell, showing the conniving ham who honestly can't be truthful at any time while Brian Kieth matches him as the sherrif convinced of his guilt and doing his best to prove it. Redgrave is fantastic as Charlotte, taking her tough lady to the extremes and gets some great scenes in her elderly days. On that, by 1978 standards, the makeup jobs are good showing the characters aging believably over the years.

There are some dark segments like the Indian massacre and a horrible crime during the Dust Bowl. There are also some plot holes and inconsistinces like how Zebre's son seemed wanting so much to be honest but later we see him as ruthless as his father. There's also the annoying tendency of later chapters to show full scenes from earlier in the series in the middle of the story, which is more noticeable on the DVD. Also, the final episode doesn't jibe as well as the producers probably hoped as it comes off too speechy and feels disconnected from the story we've seen.

Still, it's a fantastic series that gives a warts and all look at the American West and the excellent cast and writing help sell the drama, making this one of the best epic mini-series television has ever produced and worth having in one volume.