I usually do not like remakes, but John McTiernan's 1999 version of "The Thomas Crown Affair," with the "oh so sexy" Pierce Brosnan, and sultry Renee Russo, (women definitely notice mega-sex appeal in another woman), is a knock-out escapist film. Many may disagree with me, but I enjoyed it more than the original 1968 movie with Steve McQueen, who I love, and Faye Dunaway. Ms Dunaway does have a cameo role here as Crown's therapist

This is entertainment, with a capital "E," at its best. Nothing deep, or arty, but after a hard day's work, relatively mindless fun is frequently good - even terrific! Thomas Crown, (Brosnan), please allow me to repeat myself, is drop-dead sexy, handsome, rich as Croesus, an expert businessman, cultured, exudes power in a nice-guy (but nevertheless ruthless) kinda way, and he's Available!! I won't go on, but you get the picture. However, as a man who has almost everything, Crown wants some more excitement in his life. He plans, so cleverly, to steal a priceless Monet painting from New York City's Metropolitan Museum of Art. Of course he succeeds. Watching the brilliant execution of the theft is worth the price of the rental alone. Crown loves the painting - but he loves the challenge of acquiring it more.

Enter the glorious Ms. Russo, called Catherine Banning here. She is a tough, insurance investigator who, as far as pushovers go, was not born yesterday. I read that Russo actually consulted with a professional dominatrix in order to prepare for her role as the aggressive, ever so seductive Ms. Banning. She zeros in on Crown in no time, while turning the NYPD detective heading the case into quivering Jello. He notices, by the way, that apart from being a super detective, she's really easy on the eyes.

There are capers - the first one and the last, (with a touch of Magritte), are best. There is love. There's even a remarkable see-through dress, which moves with the body wearing it, to a hot Latin beat; a steamy scene on a staircase; and a fabulous, must-have soundtrack. Most importantly, in a film like this one, the chemistry between Russo and Brosnan is unbelievably outrageous! As in comedy, timing in love and sex is everything - and the timing here is perfect. Both control freaks lose their cool. I must say that everything is done tastefully, with lots of humor. The script is intelligent and witty.

I really enjoyed this movie. It's a terrific date flick too!
JANA