Detective duos and Television seemed to have been made for each other. After all, ever since the advent of aforesaid contrivance and it's seemingly eternal position in our homes, detective duos have been a plenty and many have come and gone all too quickly. And, while there are many well-known and revered leading-man detective shows (Perry Mason, Mannix, Kojak and the Rockford Files--just to name a few) it is the detective duo that has reigned supreme for the past several decades. Some, with tremendous success (despite often harsh criticism) and others that seemed destined for failure even before their pilot episode credits rolled. Such, seemed the fate of one now much-beloved TV show Simon & Simon, and their humorous, action-filled misadventures, where by episodes end all would be well with the world, or at least until the following week.

Simon and Simon: Season One is pure 80's guilty pleasure. And, while severely dated by today's hard-edge, guns blazin' standards, there is a certain heartfelt warmth and strong morality laden message to be had in each episode; something sorely missing in today's cynical, unapologetic reality-based crime dramas.

Prior to S & S there have been cop duos aplenty, but when it came to hard-edged detective shows the only plausible comparison was Starsky & Hutch (there is a particular soft-spot in this writer's heart for this tomato-striped, car-chasing cop/buddy duo from southern California) and by 70's end they were getting ready to hang up their gun belts and turn in their badges, leaving detective hungry viewers with few comparable and likeable options, hence the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew Mysterious, which were made for a crowd that had just begun to shave and whom were still popping pimples. Not exactly the kind of detective series hardened 70's cop show viewers were longing for. But, before all was seemingly forever lost to the After School Special crowd, along came the Simons to save the day in their sensitive, yet still masculine and womanizing ways; delivering plenty of action and sun-tanned beauties all within an hour and a smile.

S & S brought the detective show into the modern age. Utilizing gadgets (and what detective show could call itself as such without some sort of high-end gadgetry busted out from time to time) along with plenty of street smarts and trustful gut instincts. And, with their beloved Mother Cecelia to boot! Cheesy? Sure. But, oh what fun!

Season one is a solid starting point for the Simon's and, arguably, still the most beloved by fans--arguably-- before the Simon's got too `family-friendly'. Which later lead to the series' episodes becoming more watered-down for the ever threatening anti-violence-on-TV movement that was steaming ahead and determined as ever to clean up the air waves once and for all.

Despite their efforts to `tame' TV, most S1 episodes are worth particular mention and savoring, such as: `Love, Christy', `Trapdoors', `The Least Dangerous Game', `The Dead Letter File', `Double Entry' and `Matchmaker' (special guest-starring fresh off of Buck Roger's the stunningly blue-eyed beauty Erin Grey!) all of which helped solidify the strengths and potential the series would become renowned for seven more seasons.

Each episode is presented in its native 1.33:1 resolution, and while I was not able to confirm if these episodes had been re-mastered, they are about as good as they are ever going to look. Thankfully, the episodes were shot on 35mm film, and so while there is a certain amount of grain present they are best presented here on DVD and most certainly an improvement over any prior release. Again, we're talking 80's TV show and not big-budget fare here so its flaws are to be expected and accepted.

Similarly, audio is nothing to write home about. It is presented in English Dolby Digital 2.0 mono and is tends to fall flat. Again, such is to be expected from an 80's TV series that has seen little recent fanfare, which in turn has far from prompted Universal into dumping more money into a TV series that has seemingly come and gone with little ado.

However, most disappointing is the deficit of extras. Besides the shameless and seemingly endless spool of self-promotional trailers for other TV show favorites, the only new bonus material is the Great `80s Flashback where many-- mostly unheard of-- script writers come out of the wood work to give their insights into not just the Simon's run, but the whole gamut of `80s TV favorites; everything from the A-Team to Quantum Leap. It's a shame that Gerald McRaney and Jameson Parker weren't tapped to do more recent interviews where they could be afforded the opportunity to offer various personal insights and anecdotes (surely after an 8-year run they must have a slew of them!) for fans to chew on. Perhaps, by the final season release the current distributor of the series (Shout! Factory) might be able to pull off such a monumental task.

Overall, S & S: S1 proves to be a set well worth the wait and one's money, despite the minor gripes above. And, while it is regrettably dated and often times ridiculous one thing that hasn't changed is the fact that S & S is pure escapism.

So, put the Power Wagon in park, take off your boots and suit jacket and come on in and join the Brothers Simon for some classic detective crime-solving good times.