I give this monstrosity a generous two stars for Selleck's somewhat believable imitation of Ike. I am in my 80's and followed the war closely as it unfolded, from '39 through the end. I voted for Ike as president. He was a good man and a top level general caught in a bind, trying to control two prima donnas, Monte and Patton. I remember following Patton's slapping incident in the news as it happened. The faces and names of the real men portrayed in this film were and still are as familiar to me as Carter, Reagan, Clinton and Obama are today.

The casting of this unfortunate film is terrible, especially for the roles of Patton and Montgomery. Patton was portrayed as a fat man instead of the trim, fit Officer he was, and he  came across as a sniveling little girl. He and Ike were old personal friends and West Pointers. Ike would have likely have been sitting on a corner of his desk as he chewed him out, talking frankly about the mess he'd made and difficult position he put him (Ike) in, with Patton sitting in a chair and taking his medicine informally. The scene portrayed in the film was so amateurishly played it was laughable.

I watched as much of this cinematic travesty as I could, then shut it off and went to bed. The recent generations who didn't live during those war years have nothing to reference to and are excused for giving this more stars than it deserves out of ignorance. But the producers, directors, screenwriters, and those responsible for casting should have gotten better advisors and done their homework. They have done a disservice to history and the cinematic industry. The director also chose to make this a "dark" film, which just made it worse. Even the background music was amateurish, inappropriate, and unnecessary in most places, adding nothing to the presentation.

As I said, the only reason I give this two generous stars is because of Sellick's decent performance in this cinematic dog.

If you want a more accurate portrayal of Patton and Monte, see "Patton" again. Scott did a good job, although the real Patton had more of a high squeaky voice. "Patton" was well cast and acted, and almost every word of the script was taken from actual Patton quotes.

.