Ahhhh, the memories.  Recently I've been trying to get all the old classics in my tape collection onto that ever so convenient format known as DVD, and went searching desperately for one of the most favored movies of my childhood - Flight of Dragons, based off of The Dragon and The George.  How utterly disappointing to find that it's only available on VHS!  (hence the 4 star rating)

Won't be buying it until it's on DVD.  If the Hobbit and the Last Unicorn, both of the same genre and era, could appear on DVD, why not Flight of Dragons?  That's my simple question.

Now for the film itself.

There's something completely magical about this little  movie from the 80s.  I recently dug my copy of it (on BETA, no less.  And it still plays beautifully, once you smooth the tape back out from the crinkling that infests it from nearly being eaten by the stubborn machine twice over) out of my box of tapes not watched within the last five years.  And I still remember the theme song so well I can sing right along with it.

Gorgeous animation - a bit 2D when compared with what's coming out today, but of course there was no computer-assistance in this film.  The characters are believable without being overly lined, and are proportionate in body and deep with personality.  Who can deny the beauty inherant in every dragon, including the evil Breauk, servant of Omadon?  (Yes, I know my spelling's junk.  Bah.)  Who can say that Danielle of the woods wasn't about the hottest piece of animation to grace the silver screen for the time?  Who can forget the Ogre of Lonely Keep?  Heck, I was even cheering when the damned barkeep came on screen.

Enough plot to make old-timers happy and captivate the thinkers of today's generation.  I've shown this classic to kids I've been placed in the care of, and have yet to have a single one bored to tears by this film.  I wouldn't say that it's beyond or beneath kids of today.  One just has to search for the correct audience, that gathering of children who still have enough of an imagination remaining to perhaps believe that there just might be a magic realm where dragons still fly the skies.

And the voice acting.  Gaw.  Perfection!  Everyone in their roles, apparently having a decent enough time with their two-dimensional personalities to give them the live they deserved.  Deliciously evil cackles, hooting and hollering drunkedness, laughable singing and lovely eulogies.

Enough has been said by previous posts that I'll stop right here, with the exception of one last paragraph.

Ignore the cover art.  This film isn't nearly so childish as that horrible conglomeration of color makes it appear to be.  It's truly a masterpiece to be appreciated by all ages (especially those of us who got to enjoy it when it initially played on television), not just the children the cover targets.  Try it out - I can almost guarantee you won't be disappointed!