In Spike Lee's third film, Do the right thing, he shows the significance of races and life in Brooklyn. The setting of the movie takes place is in a neighborhood called Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn adds to the culture and ethnicity found in the movie. Italian, Latino, African American, or Jewish they all learn to get along in this one town. Sal's is this Italian pizzeria that you can locate and consider the center of this neighborhood. It is run by a strong, and proud Italian family who have been running this business for many years. Some confrontation comes up between Sal and ML when he tries to petition against Sal's pizzeria. This petition began because ML was offended that there was no photos of African Americans on his wall of fame.But no one wanted or planned on signing this ridiculous petition. Sal's pizzeria is where they grew up and plan on showing to their future children. Paul Benjamin who plays the role of "ML" then convinces Radio Raheem, played by Bill Nunn, to support him with this petition. Radio Raheem is the character who goes around town blasting his music and stating his opinions against anything. He represents love and hate which is basically seen through siblings, families, friends, different races and businesses. There's so many varieties of races in this small town and they are able to just cope with each other.But that all changed rather quickly.
  One late afternoon Radio Raheem and ML make there way into Sal's pizzeria. Radio Raheem, as usual, has his stereo blasting music and Sal simply asks him to lower it. But of course he was being difficult and didn't do as Sal commanded. This led into a huge argument and everyone started yelling but when Sal smashed Radio Raheem's radio into pieces things went down hill. Radio Raheem and Sal began to fight each other. Everyone around and people who started heading over to Sal's pizzeria start fighting each other. All communication and tolerance broke when Sal destroyed the radio. The cops come and take Radio Raheem away and end up murdering him. This situation just caused everyone's anger to grow greater but Mookie changes things around. He approaches the pizzeria and chucks a garbage can at the window and everyone turns there anger against destroying the pizzeria. I believe Mookie did this because they wanted the violence to stop but wanted to maybe still hurt Sal which could be done by destroying his restaurant. While instead of taking their anger out on the cops, who were the ones who exceeded the point of violence by murdering Radio Raheem; they decided to take it out on Sal and his pizzeria. This whole riot shows that they were able to tolerate each other to a certain point but that ended communication ended at the pizzeria. In the end both Radio Raheem and Sal's pizzeria are dead and nothing got settled.