Utterly biased revisionist history, is the only way to describe this DVD.

The War of 1812 was a misunderstood, mismanaged war on many levels, but to portray the war as a massive, almost overwhelming victory for the United States (as this program does) is nothing short of diabolical.

It should be renamed "1814 - 1815 and what happened during these years" because what you get is certainly not the War of 1812. The show briefly glosses over both the issues leading to the war and the actual first two years of the fighting (in which the single most important battles, and those with the longest lasting legacy, take place). There is also no mention of the Native American leader Tecumseh, one of the most enduring characters from this period of history and whose Native American coalition was a main factor of the war. This is presumably because it would alter the US perception of the war from one of defence to one of aggression, nonewithstanding the horrific treatment Tecumseh's body endured by American troops after his death.

Instead it rushes itself in order to get to the battles that took place on American soil. With little to no mention what so ever of the multiple US invasions of British North America (Canada) in which the British were vastly outnumbered but managed to consistently defeat the invaders over the course of two years. These victories creating a sense of national pride which would eventually result in actual nationhood for Canada in 1867.

It also wrongly implies that Britain attempted to retake the lost American Colonies during this war, which is absolutely ridiculous. To Britain this war was nothing but a sideshow to the war with Napoleon in Europe, and the British "Invasions" were in actual fact large scale raids, designed to force the United States to make peace.

The Burning of Washington is shown more or less to be an evil, unjustified act. In actual fact, the burning of Washington was in retaliation for the conduct of US troops burning and looting the City of York after their victory. It was essentially an act of savagery in an age where warfare was the sport of gentlemen. In contrast during the buring of Washington British skill and discipline resulted in only public buildings such as the White House being burnt, while civilian property was untouched.

The show finishes on the Battle of New Orleans, which is shown to be a sort of decisive, final victory against the British invaders. Nonewithstanding the fact that two more battles took place after New Orleans and both of which were British victories, ridiculously biased stuff.

If you're patriotic as hell, give this one a look. If you prefer REAL history, give it a miss.