Ostensibly "The Big Lebowski" is a farce, a hodgepodge of film noir, westerns and mistakened identity. And yet if one looks beyond the surface of expletives and grandiose set pieces -- which only repeated viewings of the film can yield -- one will find a film which delves deeper into issues of masculinity such as sports, virility, war and redemption; subjects which just about every critic overlooked when stating the obvious in their review of the film.
As the Stranger states during the beginning of the movie the Dude is "a man for his time and his place;" a product of the '60's who meanders through the early 90's, a time in which many men in the U.S. seemed to be vicariously reasserting their manliness through the Gulf War . The Gulf War informs many events in the movie from the Dude's belittlement at the hands of the Big Lebowski ("This aggression will not stand .  .  .man!") to Walter Sobchak's thoughts about "Charlie" and the possible outcome of the then impending conflict in the Persian Gulf.
The film is a literal deconstruction of everything that is normally associated with masculinity. From the outset, the Dude , like so many real and fictional heros before him, tries to right a perceived wrong. He wants recompense for his solied rug. And yet he fails miserably at this task with only a bruised jaw, a dead friend and a spurious newborn  to show for it.

In a sense the Dude's loss of virlity speaks about the rest of the Male characters in the film: the millionaire Korean War veteran who has lost his legs, the Vietnam veteran who has lost his mind, and the German nihilists who lose their hold of their philosophy when one states that the outcome of their ransom scheme  isn't fair. Even the more macho characters,  Jesus and the Malibu Police Chief, try to assert their masculinity and yet still appear emasculated in some way. The scene of Jesus and his bowling partner earnestly polishing off their bowling balls undercuts Jesus taunts of violating Walter and the Dude in a blatantly sexual manner during their upcoming bowling match. And although the Malibu Police Chief tows a hard line when it comes to protecting his beachfront community he cannot be taken seriously when showing a little leg with his knee length khaki shorts.  
Ironically, the only character who asserts their masclinity without diastrous results is Maude Lebowski, the female lead, played with deadpan comic delivery by Julianne Moore. She finds her stolen rug and in the process a suitable sperm donor in the form of the Dude. Unlike the Dude,  she sees what she wants and gets it. However as evidenced with the many props and works of art which decorate her loft, most notably, a bloodied, dismembered female mannequin and a large still life of scissors,  it is implied that Maude might have lost some of her femininity in her quest to assert herself.
Ultimately, "the Big Lebowski" deals with the question that the Real Jeff Lebowski poses to the Dude: "What makes a man?"  Is it a pair of testicles as the Dude so blithely states or is it something more such as a  24K ring for a 300 game, a notche on the bedpost for a romp in the hay or some repayment for a soiled rug. 
The Coen Brothers don't provide any defintive answers. One can harken to the fact that the creators don't please the audience with a trite cathartic climax as the unseen and much ballyhoed match between Jesus and the Dude might have served. Instead they let the enigmatic Stranger have the last word about "the Human Comedy" which trails off before letting the audience in on what it all means.  As is, "The Big Lebowski" literally  gets the ball rolling in thinking about the question of what is means to be an American Male at the dawn of the 21st Century.