I am sure that Mel Brooks played the major role in directing this movie, helping to secure from the actors the very best performances, as well as adding certain more crude enhancements to the script. Undoubtedly, he made many other contributions I am not aware of. He also had the sense to insist, despite studio pressures, that the film be made in black and white.
However, the real driving force, inspiration and heart of this movie was Gene Wilder. As this Special Edition DVD makes clear, Gene Wilder came up with the story; Wilder also wrote the initial drafts of the script, with Brooks joining him to help rewrite and finalize it. Brooks gets screen co-credit with Wilder for both the story and the script, but it is clear that that most of it sprang from Wilder. It was Wilder who insisted, and fought for, the "Puttin on the Ritz" scene--Wilder-type humor, not Brook's. (Brooks was inclined to eliminate it) "It's pronounced 'Fronk - ken - steen', not 'Fran - ken - stein'" was in the original script, written by Wilder. That conceit, that denial of his "famous and infamous" grandfather, as well as his own tendencies as a Frankenstein, is the ongoing joke that makes the movie work hilariously.
It is Wilder's contribution, as an actor, that also makes this movie: his superb facial expressions, his ironic, exaggerated, sarcastic performace is the essence of the movie's denial-styled humor. (On the other hand, if Brooks is responsible for those fantastic close-ups, maybe I am being unfair) I am not trying to detract from Mr. Brook's undeniable talents, but it bothers me that he seems to get the majority of the credit for this movie. Compare Young Frankenstein to other Brook's films, none of them nearly as good. Ask yourself: was History of the Word and Blazing Saddles done by the same man that did Young Frankenstein? There are many who love Blazing Saddles; it was, after all, a hit, and many consider it a good, very funny film. By any measure, however, it lacks the sophistication, cleverness and classic quality of Young Frankenstein.
Young Frankenstein...This is not Mel Brooks. This is Gene Wilder.