Boyz N the Hood was the movie debut of african-amemrican movie director John Singleton.Anyone who've seen this movie can remember the stir it caused around 1991 when it was released, at a time when George Bush was president and ghetto riots occured in LA later in the Rodney King incident.
One can be rather amazed but such such a a stark but accurate portait of the hood and most impotantly what it is living in the projects.
I have rarely seen such as clever and brillant outlook on african-american issues in a movie.John Singleton here doesn't glorify violence or gangs, he address and demonstrates these issues by telling the story of three young black teenagers living in a rather harsh neighborhood : South Central LA.
What struck the most was how accurate this movie actually is.It doesn't portait mens who thrives with gang-violence but rather are trying escaping it, finding a better surrounding.
Not only Boyz N the Hood does a great job in acheiving this but it also manage to tell us meaningful issues such as single-parenthood, fatherhood, sex and education.
A strong duality also did struck me : scopes of imporoving your life and how it can be done.On one hand you've got one child who's got a caring and reponsible father, played amazingly by Lawrence Fishburne and other young mens such as Doughboy who live wihout knowing his father.Clearly Singleton has pointed out brillantly that men that have fathers taking care of them and loving them are more chance to suceed.In the end, Tre choose not to live within the gang-violence framework showing us how crucial a role-model father can be for his child.
Two different paths and two different families, those of Tre and Doughboy, demontrates how single-handly having a father can change their fate : life or death.
The daring finale where Tre choose his fate and doughboy avenge his brother is one of the most touching and emotionnal scenes I have ever encountered.I was emotionnally touched and deeply saddened by this scene (along when Cuba Cooding jr handles the gun to Lawrencne Fishburne).
The fact that Singleton also manage to capture the true essence of South Central LA when football wiz Ricky encounter his death is also one of the most daring scene.The music stops, Ricky runs trying to escape his death, gun's fired, the shooting happens and nobody can stop it : this is the realness of violence.You can't escape it. 
More importantly, you are not witnessing the hood YOU ARE LIVING IT.It is truly breathtaking !!!
Such a clever movie should not be overlooked.
It has genius written all over it...
5 stars and tears to your eyes