I had to review this movie, the show was my FAVORITE- a show about real women; albeit with inflated salaries and free time, who deal with relationship problems in a way I have never seen before or since. The show was not about sex or men bashing, plus I loved the shoes and fashion, and when they would go places in the show (like City Bakery) that I go to and love.

My husband informed me via email one day that they were filming SATC right here on Park Ave. My coworker and I rushed over, but we missed it, and instead found the crew for "Cashmere Mafia".

OK so the whole theme of the movie was forgiveness. While a nice idea for a show, it did not carry well through the movie, based on the girls personalities. What did they consult the Dalai Lama on this one? Miranda had to forgive Steve, Carrie had to forgive Big, Carrie had to forgive Miranda, Smith had to forgive Samantha and Charlotte had to forgive Big.

I CANNOT believe Steve cheated. Wow. If he can cheat, whose boyfriend or husband can't? Well, mine of course! He was always the good guy, the guy i rooted for through the entire series. The kind of guy you would be thrilled if your daughter brought home. Plus the reason for him cheating- how many couples who work full time and have children don't have dry spells at some point? I really did not like the therapist saying that she can't live her life not trusting him. Sure, she has to forgive him, but I think the "what if he does it again" feeling would not just go away. I am glad they ended up together, because I know he learned his lesson and also that Miranda knows that even though he may be flawed, she would be hard pressed to find another "Steve" in the city.

Carrie and Big. Wow. Most people hated the wedding scene but I thought it was so accurate. When she realized he wasn't coming and let the phone drop to the floor..my heart sank. He did it to her again. Bastard. And when she went outside and beat him with her bouquet...s*** who wouldn't have done that in her shoes? Even Charlotte was upset, which is rare to see. However, I think in real life he would have either called someone else's cell phone and asked Carrie to meet him outside, or sent Raul in to go get her. Bad writing.

When Carrie went to Mexico with the girls, she was so depressed, and not just for a day. She wouldn't get out of bed, wouldn't eat, didn't care that she was at one of the most beautiful places in the world with her very best friends. I have never seen a more accurate portrayal of depression. I would have thrown a glass at the waiter when he called me Mrs. Prescott.

It was not a good move for Samantha to leave Smith. Sure she missed her friends in NY and missed some of her independence, but where on earth would she find a 30 yr. old guy who stood with her while she had chemo? I thought it SO distasteful when everyone said she got fat. Besides a teeny tiny bit of flab on her tummy, where was the fat? They could have at least made this believable by putting her in a fat suit. I would kill to look like her. At MY age. That is not real NY women. Real NY women eat when they are depressed but they also gain weight- especially if they are 50!

Jennifer Hudson did a good (not great) job as Carrie's assistant. Loved the fact that Carrie finally had someone else to interact with, and someone of color, which was lacking in the show.

Steve and Big both messed up. But IMHO, if I were Miranda or Carrie I would have expected more. They should have got cards, emails and phone calls every day. Steve should have bought something nice for Miranda, and gave her access to his private email account to prove she could trust him. Ummm Big could have maybe tried the doorbell once or twice? And what is up with the cheesy shoe proposal? Even if Carrie did not want a diamond, with all his money he didn't buy her a ring! I would SO be regretting dumping Aiden at this point....

I laughed when Big made fun of Carrie for still going to the library. I practically live in mine. Perfect choice for a wedding locale. Would have been too pricey for me though. Overall I loved the movie, I missed the show SO much.

Women in NY live in the best city in the world. But there are still husbands who cheat, friends that get into fights, vacations, fun, work, children. Its not easy, its not as glamorous as it seems, but we wouldn't trade it for anything.