Alfred Hitchcock comes through with a great piece of work in his first ever color-film. "Rope" is a movie about two men, Brandon and Philip, who murder classmate David Kentley, whom they deem intellectually inferior. They then proceed to throw a party in their apartment with David hidden in a chest of which they serve dinner off. Brandon Shaw (John Dall) is very confident in his plan and seems to be poised to have everything go perfectly. His partner Philip Morgan (Farley Granger) does an astonishing job acting as the nervous suspect who thinks that every coincidental incident means that their plan is falling apart.
  Hitchcock relates this film to human nature knowing that everyone loves to get away with something. This part of the suspense comes from our ability to be an accomplice to murder, without suffering the consequences. Everyone knows that murder is wrong, but Mr. Hitchcock directs the film in a way that will leave you wanting Brandon and Philip to get away with the murder. You will find yourself at the edge of your seat wondering if they can pull off this seemingly impossible task.
  James Stewart does an excellent job playing the role of a retired schoolteacher (Rupert Cadell) who acts more like a detective than a teacher. Rupert is the character who originally taught Brandon and Philip the theory of moral and intellectual superiority.
However, he did not expect them to take it as anything more than a joke or a conversation. During the party, everybody begins to concern themselves with the well-being of David (the corpse). As the film goes on, the suspense builds up.
  Alfred Hitchcock also uses the "one shot" idea so it gives the impression of real-time. This was done very well and was a strong point in the movie. You will not even notice the different cuts unless you pay very close attention in detail. The music was diegetic, as Brandon playing the piano was the only part of the movie that involved music at all. As Rupert begins to question him, Brandon plays faster as his paranoia grows. This film is loaded with excitement and you will find yourself anxiously anticipating what will happen next throughout the entire movie.
  Some might not like this film because it is done all in one scene, but I think that this adds to the movie as you can see everything in the room at all times. This aspect of the movie is very intriguing, and I am surprised that this is not done more often. Everything in the movie was happening in the apartment. There is never a time when you will want to know what is happening elsewhere. This allows you to know that nothing is happening behind your back. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has not watched it before. Everyone should experience watching a film composed like this one.