I first saw this movie in 2007, I've only heard about this from my cousins who lived in the US for a long time and now that I've seen it. I understood why it was so good. I've always loved Disney movies and this is my number one movie that I love. Its a classic story that everyone lovea to tell about, and that is about mermaid. A mermaid in love with a human and wanting to be a part of his world, and the sacrifices she has to make to get the love of her life. Its both heart warming and does truly touch you. Disney cracked the code and truly made it there own story. They've presented it in a way that truly is heart warming and worth watching. The princess in this film "Ariel" is truly one of the most unique princesses that we've seen and is truly special.
One of the best things about this movie is the songs. Howard Ashman truly put all his heart in producing the music in this movie and it has some of the most memorable music that can never be forgotten like the music "Part of your world" which is truly is beautiful, and for some people it can relate to others in human life, another like "kiss the girl" is also a favorite. But the movie is also about a father and daughter relationship as well. It is a movie that made me realize how special daughters can be, and when they get married, how much love and pain it takes to give your daughter away; it has that kind of warmth as well.  As an adult with times things have changed, and with the way stories these days are made or told; stories like these are being made irrelevant in our kids lives which is not fair. It is a classic that shouldn't be forgotten and be shown to our kids again
However there are some downside to this movie. With todays animation, it feels outdated and you can't blame them because it was made in the late 80's, but the Disney crew has done a great job at restoring the film's color. Another downside is that with the kids these days, it is more suited towards older kids, kids younger than 10 won't seem to enjoy it because kids want something spontaneous and funny, not a love story, Sadly! Kids won't be patient enough to watch and understand these movies. Also, one of the biggest controversy that people have made about this movie is about Ariel being 16 years old in this move. For me that is not a problem but todays parents won't want to influence there kids to run off at the age of 16 looking for there prince charming. To me this point is understandable but because it was made in the 80's and in the 80's there were kids that got married at that age, heck even my mother was 16 when she got married to my father and they've been happily married for 29 years, so you can't exactly blame them for not presenting something that isn't with the current times; but that is one issue that parents have made towards this,. But for me it is still something I love to watch with my daughter and she loves it as well because Ariel has also been shown as someone who seeks her dream, and wants to dream as well.
The story is greatly told and I don't think there would be anyone out there who would have told it better than this. It is a classic that must never be forgotten, and a must have item for a fan of Disney, and its great classics. Its a great family movie and a must have item.