Cubby Broccoli started it with James Bond films. Changing directors all the time is one of the ways they have been able to keep James Bond fresh and contemporary, preventing the series from falling into a repetitive pattern.

I assume that was the reason Doug Liman didn't direct this part two of the Bourne saga and passed the megaphone to Paul Greengrass.

All things considered I think the story would have been better with Limans style. Liman put togther a wonderful story that revealed the mystery in a way the always left more questions to come. The action sequences were fast, brutal and believable.

Greengrass in my opinion relied to heavily on hand held cameras during most of the action scenes and even quite a few non-action scenes. I have no objection to use of the "shaky cam" but like a spice, it can be over used and ruin the effect. Instead of connecting the audience to the action overuse of the shaky-cam, made it difficult to follow much of the action.

Most of chase scene had the camera basically in the passenger seat next to Bourne and it moved about so much the audience missed most of the best parts of the action.

Overall the movie was well done, but would have been much much better with Liman back at the helm. In the case of the Bourne movies, I think consistency would be better especially considering how good the first film really was.

Other areas of detail were very good. The bombs used to blow up the electrical panels would most likely have been Semtex in a real mission and the prop bombs had a Semtex like color and texture. I though that was a nice touch. I do appeciate details done correctly.

On the other hand, Greengrass used the TV show style silencer sound (the tweeter). That was just laziness considering how the original film went to lengths to use a more realistic sound effect when Conklin received his "payoff" at the end.

Matt Damon again brought a strong performance to the role of Bourne thus cementing his claim to being a credible action star. Brian Cox came very close to stealing the show with his portrayal of Abbott and Joan Allen was well cast as Pam Landry. It was even nice to see snippets Tom Gallop as Conkin here and there. I'll miss Franke Potente in subsequent films hoping maybe they'll do a soap-opera deal, after all there was no body....

This was a good film but disappointing in two respects. The story was no where near as interesting as the first movie. I would be willing to beet that more than half of the audience in the theater didn't even understand the whole plot even after it had been revealed. That and the overly shaky camera work detracted from what could have been a 5-star film.