Since the rest of the reviews on this page are so overwhelmingly positive, I guess I'm the voice of dissent.  I watched "A Nightmare on Elm Street" last night for the first time since it first came out on cable in the 1980s.  I was surprised at how flawed it is.  The acting, cinematography, dialogue, sound quality (even in my digitally remastered copy), and special effects are constant reminders of how this was never intended to be anything more than a B-movie.  Even the cast is second rate.  Johnny Depp may be a big star now, and Robert Englund may have achieved cult status, but at the time, the biggest star in the cast was John Saxon.  And it's so dated!  Check out Depp's tank top and poofy hair style!  And the synthesizers on the soundtrack!  The whole thing is so 80s it reminded me of Adam Sandler's "The Wedding Singer"!  And it's impossible to watch the sequence where Fred Krueger (Englund) stumbles into all of Nancy Thompson's home-made booby traps without thinking of "Home Alone."
 Still, despite its flaws, it was surprisingly effective enough to make me want to turn on a couple of lights when the movie was over.  I think the genius was in Wes Craven's basic concept:  What would happen if the killer in your nightmares didn't disappear when you woke up?  Craven was also better than any of his successors (The next five entries in the series were all made by other directors and writers.) at evoking the general feeling of dreams and nightmares.  Craven's successors just used the dream concept as an excuse to go wild with special effects, even using claymation a couple of times.  But Craven himself was more interested in using near-universal truths about nightmares:  the inconsistency of time and place, the tendency to get lost, the inability to run quickly, whispered voices, etc.  Maybe this is what makes "A Nightmare on Elm Street" a modern-day classic while most of the sequels are little more than a diversion.
  I must emphasize that at the time this was made, characterization and dialogue were not yet Craven's strong points.  The dialogue is convincing as dialogue between 80s teenagers, but it isn't very interesting in and of itself (as opposed to Kevin Williamson's dialogue in "Scream," which manages to be convincing AND interesting), and the adult characters aren't individuals as much as they are teen film archetypes (the alcoholic parent, the insensitive parent, the dumb cop, etc.).  If you want to see a Craven movie with almost all of "A Nightmare on Elm Street"'s strengths but none of its weaknesses, watch Craven's return to the series, "Wes Craven's New Nightmare."  The nightmare sequences aren't as effective as those in "A Nightmare on Elm Street," but by the time Craven made this sequel, he had matured as a writer:  the characters emerge as individuals and the dialogue (especially in the scene where Craven himself provides a possible explanation for the odd goings-on) is sometimes fascinating.
  I give "A Nightmare on Elm Street four stars because of its strengths but despite its flaws.  "Wes Craven's New Nightmare" would get five.