I first saw South Pacific when it was released in 1958 at the age of 10, and remember being totally overwhelmed by the orchestrations, performances and photography. Over the years I have regularly heard the film trashed by  critics and many members of the public, so I was curious to see how I would  respond to it now when I recently bought the video. Well, maybe it's just  me, but I found the film as thrilling and beautiful as I did forty years  ago. I agree with everyone else that it was a mistake to use those colored  filters in many of the sequences, but the film still packs a heck of an  emotional whallop, and I think along with The King and I stands out as the  most successful of the Rogers and Hammerstein shows put on film. The  weakest of the cast is John Kerr, who is somewhat wooden; however, Juanita  Hall is magnificent as Bloody Mary (she will never be surpassed in the role  she createwd on Braodway), Rossano Brazzi is thoroghly convincing as Emille  DeBeque (even if he was dubbed by Giorgio Tozzi), and Mitzi Gaynor gives an  unforgettable performance as Nelly Forbrush. Of all of the criticism one  hears of South Pacific, to me the most puzzling is the bashing of Mitzi  Gaynor, who to me is not only excellent but perfection in the role. I  realize a lot of this probably stems from anger that Mary Martin didn't get  the role and is basically sour grapes, but the fact is Ms. Martin was too  old to be convincing in 1958. The scenes in which Ms. Gaynor struggles with  her small-town prejudices are moving and very real, and when Bloody Mary  brings Liat to her to find Lieutenant Cable, who has been killed, it breaks  one's heart. Anyway, the movie still knocks me out, even if that makes me,  as Nelly Forbrush calls herself, a "knucklehead." The incredible  photography, gorgeous music, and theme of the need to triumph over bigotry  which is still so relevant even today, makes this film a 5-star winner in  my book. As trite as it sounds, "They don't make 'em like that  anymore!"