The picture is matted at the ratio of 1.66:1 for the widescreen and 16x9 enhanced version. The picture was filmed in spherical and shown at 1.85:1, however, the DVD framing is excellent as I did not encounter any striking  crop. Images are sharp in the usual DVD standard, but there are some dirts  on the print, some slight shimmering on the brighter objects, and few noise  on background scenes. Colors are warm and well saturated with cool blue  lighting as the predominant color. The picture is shot in a perpetual state  of dreariness as there aren't many bright settings. Black and shadow detail  are well defined. 
The encoded soundtrack is limited in the surrounds,  but has a wide frontal stage. Some decent panning effects provide by the  constant sound of helicopter whizzing overhead. Bass extension is forceful  on the few explosions, but is otherwise restrained. The well recorded score  generates most of the dynamic responses. Dialogue is well integrated.
The  supplemental materials are quite a package. For starter, you get two  commentary tracks by the director and producer, but I've to say that it's  kind of overkill for this movie. I would rather have a single track with  them together. There is a 22-minute featurette that takes you  behind-the-scenes with interviews from the leading actors, director, and  trainer Barry McGuigan. The most interesting bit is the part on training  Daniel Day-Lewis to be a boxer. His sheer determination and relentless  workout amazed the trainer. McGuigan declares that Day-Lewis is good enough  to fight the top ten fighters in Ireland. I'll pay to see that. Then there  are about 15 minutes worth of deleted scenes, some of which revealed more  insight to the story, such as the scene showing Maggie visiting her husband  Tommy in jail, he is often refered to but not shown in the final cut. There  is also an alternate ending, which I will explain on the bottom of the  page. Both the production notes and biography are well in-depth.  
Director Jim Sheridan (Some Mother's Son, In the Name of the Father)  obviously has a tremendous insight and account to the political conflict  and struggle in Ireland as all his previous films demonstrated; The Boxer  is no exception. Amidst the chaotic backdrop is an earnest love story and  the lives of those that are needlessly victimized by the insane political  conflict. The film made more compelling by the oustanding performances with  sparkling chemistry between the two leading actors. It's wonderful to see  Emily Watson in another role since her break through performance in  Breaking the Waves. I hope to see her more in the future.