Underappreciated by critics, Body Double is a success on many levels.  Unfairly maligned in this case for his liberal drawing on Hitchcock themes in Rear Window and Vertigo, Brian DePalma, with Body Double, has made a  decisive break from Hitchcock and makes the themes of obsession, voyerism,  and pervasive duplicity and sexual betrayal entirely his own.  Mesmerized  by the nightly titillating bedroom routine of sensuous neighbor Gloria  Ravelle (Deborah Shelton), B-film actor Jake Scully (Craig Wasson)  innocuously indulges his voyeristic impulses--until the evening he realizes  someone else is watching Gloria too.  Things quickly escalate to murder.  Melanie Griffith is Seka-like porn star Holly Body, who Scully discovers is  the unwitting key to a brutal murder.  With its triple-flip ending and  beautiful photography (especially the camera's circular travellings during  Jake's brief erotic interlude with Gloria as Pino Donaggio's "Love and  Menace" portion of the score reaches crescendo), Body Double is an  exceptionally beautiful film.  Pino Donaggio's superb score also deserves  mention, particularly his "Love and Menace" track and his playful  and titillating segment "Body Double" theme when Jake first  watches Gloria, to its variations in a later scene in which elements of  menace are introduced as Jake realizes someone else is watching too, and  finally, its romantic variations in the sequence where Jake follows Gloria.  One of the most intriguing and ingenious sequences I've seen in film comes  amid the sequence in which Jake gets himself cast in an X-rated film to  investigate Holly Body's apparent link to a murder.  During the  "film-within-a-film" very soft-porn parody of "An American  in Paris" sequence, Jake begins to have scripted raw sex with ribald  Holly to the throbbing beat of Frankie Goes to Hollywood's Relax.  He  suddenly finds a responsive Gloria in his arms once again as Pino  Donaggio's "Love and Menace" swells on a grand scale.  DePalma  cross-cuts between Jake's fantasy lovemaking with Gloria and the actual raw  sex he's having with Holly as illusion and reality merge to the literal  climax, allowing Jake to consummate his poignant,lost romance with  Gloria--while bringing Holly to orgasm at the same time! It's an incredible  sequence that mixes poignancy, humor, mechnical and romantic sex.  With its  knowing insight into voyerism, Body Double may very well be Brian DePalma's  best film.