I don't know why this wonderful period film hasn't received more serious attention. Tom Hanks and Paul Newman are fantastic in it, the cinematography is absolutely captivating, and the story line has everything between a battle against fate to Biblical overtones. It's a film about killing and gangsters that avoids gore and car chases in favor of plot.
Mr. Hanks plays small-town hit man Michael Sullivan, an orphan raised as a son by the mob's crusty boss John Rooney, played by Mr. Newman. Sullivan's son mistakenly witnesses one of his father's hits, forcing Sullivan to choose between his real family and his crime family. Rooney's son Conner  (played by Daniel Craig) complicated things by plotting to push Sullivan out and Sullivan decides to take the boy (played by Tyler Hoechlin) to the safety of a relative's house in a town called Perdition, a fancy word for Hell.  
The town's name is not the last of the symbolism. The weary choice facing Rooney in regards to Sullivan and to Sullivan in regards to his son is reminiscent of the Biblical story of Abraham and Isaac. More compellingly, the battle between Sullivan and Rooney's son Conner recalls the story of Cain and Abel.
But the whole film recalls an increasingly desperate battle against fate ... nobody seems to break free of it. Mr. Hanks' Sullivan desperately wants his son to avoid the Hell of life as a hit man (but what an example he sets: Sullivan kills almost every other character in the film), but he tries to do so by taking him to Hell (Perdition). It is in Perdition that the most obvious symbolism takes place: once father and son arrive, the boy stands at the edge of Hell when he holds the gun in his hand and has a chance to kill the photographer/hit man character played by Jude Law. But he doesn't pull the trigger and he remains pure. The film ends like it begins, on the brightly lit beach -- heaven near the house in Perdition.
The brightly lit ending is particularly noticeable because of the gritty cinematography that makes most of the film feel almost as if it was shot in black and white (and more black than white).
The only thing I didn't like about the film was the ending, which seemed to wrap things up a little too predictably and even unbelievably. It seems like a stretch that the character Sullivan would not figure out what was about to happen in the closing minutes of the film when I and the other people I watched the film with could see it coming -- recall that this is a character who instantly processed and avoided what was about to happen in the diner and again after he found the mob's accountant. The only explanation I could come up with was that on some level Sullivan wanted the story to end that way, which just seems contrived in a different way to me.
I'm also a little displeased with the character played by Mr. Law, whose strangely feminine edge makes him into the film's creepiest character, but who missed an opportunity to be unforgettable when he failed to illustrate his motives better. Similarly, Hoechlin, the boy, too often seems in awe, and as a result comes off a bit two-dimensional.
Still, the overall product is too well done to be overlooked to the extent that it was. I could understand an Academy Award snub in a strong year, but it was nominated for just six awards (only one was major, for the supporting role played by Mr. Newman). In the end, it won only the award for cinematography in a year so weak that the rudderless Chicago won best picture and the formulaic Gangs of New York and that year's installment of the Lord of the Rings (Two Towers) were much better received.