Eureka Seven is an anime that has surprised me.  I am not the type that likes anime involving giant robots....usually.  For example, I don't really like any of the Gundam animes, but Eureka Seven is an exception. The show involves LFOs which are basically giant robots people can ride things called Waves in.  They can also use boards to ride these Waves, it is very much like surfing only without water.

The story's main character is a 14 year old boy named Renton Thurston, and more than anything else in the whole world, he would like to leave his boring home town and his boring life behind.  Oppurtunity knocks when the Nirvash type Zero(that's another big robot) crashes where he lives and out from it comes Eureka, the girl of his dreams.

Eureka is in fact a member of GekkoState, a group of rogues that ride the waves.  More importantly, Renton idolizes them.  He soon comes face to face with Holland, the leader of GekkoState and his idol.  Renton's dreams come true when he becomes a member of Gekkostate, leaving behind his old life... at least for now. However, Renton will not find life as a member of GekkoState as fun or easy as he originally thought.

This is a brief summary of the first five episodes of this show, which are on this DVD.  For any fan of anime, I suggest this DVD. Eureka Seven is a great show that grows on you, it's strongest aspect is it's character development, but you have to watch the episodes to see this.  The show has action, and at times can be heart warming, yet heart wrenching at the same time.

As previously stated, this DVD has the first 5 episodes of the show in either English or Japanese, with an interveiw from the Japanese voice actors for Renton and Eureka, they also provide commentary for one of the episodes. This DVD introduces many, but not all of the main characters, and simply gets the story rolling. Again, I only offered a brief explanation of the story, but if you buy the DVD you'll get a better idea of what it's all about, and I think and hope you'll enjoy it.