The blood, gore, "the box", and the cenobites continue. The movie picks up right were the first one ended. Kirsty made a deal with Pinhead, who is the leader of the cenobites, to give them Uncle Frank (he escaped them) in exchange for her. After they took Frank, the female cenobite goes after Kirsty until she is able to use the box to send them all back to Helll. Her father's home then gets destroyed....

Kirsty is now in a psychiatrist's hospital. Dr. Chinnard is fascinated with the mind, the brain, and the other dimension. He was able to take the bloody bed with the chains in it from Kirsty's house. He also has the box which summons the cenobites. Chinnard unknowingly helps Kristy's stepmother Julia to escape the cenobites as she comes out of the bloody bed the way Frank looked in the first Hellraiser (all blood, bones, muscle but no skin). Together the conspire to get Julia back her skin and in return, Julia would show Dr. Chinnard, the other "place" including her god, the lord of flesh and desire; Leviathan. But she has other plans for him as well.

Kristy is hell bent (sorry for the pun) on trying to get her father out of hell as she sees a message in blood in her hospital room. With help from Chinnard's assistant, Kristy is able to get out of the hospital as Chinnard's assistant, Kyle was able to see that Kristy was telling the truth about the box and the demons it caries. Kristy learns that Pinhead as well as his cenobites use to be human. She finds a picture in Chinnard's house of Capt. Elliot Spencer (played by Doug Bradely) and belives it is Pinhead himself. Earily, one of the cenobites is a little child (I'm not going to give up the whole plot). Kristy, even though she didn't open the box, runs into her old "friends," the cenobites, who let her explore as Kristy and a mute girl who loves to solve puzzles are being chased by another demon (not going to give it away) with alternate plans. Pinhead is looking to "play" with Kirsty and get to know her flesh. He also stops his troops from killing her mute friend as Pinhead says," It is not curious hands that summon us, it's desire." As he points to Chinnard's secret room because Chinnard was using the mute girl as a gineau pig. This leads to the ultimate showdown between Pinhead and his troops against the other demon. Will Julia be able to do what Frank couldn't? Escape!

Julia had a great couple of lines when she faces off with Kirsty. "Come on Snow White! Take your best shot!" Who would of thought you would hear the words, Snow White, in Hellraiser (Hellraiser 2 to be exact)!

I thought Hellraiser was slightly weaker than the first one, third one (Hell on Earth) and the fourth one (Bloodlines). I was a little disappointed towards the end (not going to give it away). Don't get me wrong, it's still one of the best horror movies back in the time when horror movies relied more on acting than on special effects/CGI. Pinhead once again shines as the angel/demon of mercy looking to explore peoples flesh and desires while taking their souls. The way to dial his number is by solving the "box" which is known as the Lament Configuration. The boxes history is explained in more detail in Hellraiser: Bloodlines.

I would give this movie a 4.5 but still a great addition to your horror collection. The picture is great and no extras that would make you go, WOW!