The Other Guys is an action/comedy movie about two cops who try to uncover a crime that very powerful people want to keep a secret.  Will Ferrell stars as the timid cop who never wants to get into any trouble, and Mark Wahlberg who is a hot head who wants to see some action.  Steve Coogan plays a wealthy investor who is the subject of said crime, and a other notables include Michael Keaton as the Police captain, Samuel L. Jackson and Duane "The Rock" Johnson as the Police's "cool, popular do-gooders" of the department.

This movie must have had high production values because the action scenes are pretty stand out.  They are engaging all throughout the movie, and at some parts pretty hilarious.  Aside that, the other scenes were more hit and miss, with some scenes being amusing, and others being dull and boring.  A lot of screen time was given to Will Ferrell and Wahlberg, which seems pretty obvious given that they are the stars of the movie...but Wahlberg was a definite miscast.  Ferrell was holding his own with the dialogue given to him, but sometimes a comedian can be funnier in a duo vehicle when other guy plays off well.  Wahlberg essentially just screamed every line given to him.  I am really not sure who was to be the straight man  in this movie. The two characters took turns with this role numerous times throughout the movie.  The jokes started to feel stale throughout the second half of the movie, as Ferrell felt the need to explain joke, conversation, idea in detail to Wahlberg, when Wahlberg clearly understood the punchline  This was funny during the first two iterations of the gag.

Samuel L Jackson and the Rock were actually very funny and stole every scene that they were in.  Unfortunately, they had limited screen time.  Steve Coogan is also miscast, as he plays a simple,  straight laced quasi-villain in this movie.  You could have gotten any nobody to play the role, as Coogan's comedic talent is not even utilized.

The plot is actually something that you can sink your teeth into, and if you're not paying attention, you could lost in what is going on.  This definitely is a bonus. Amid some pacing issues in the last third of the movie, this ending is rewarding and actually has a tiny little twist in the end.

I think this movie may be suffering from a identity crisis, not knowing if its a straight up comedy or crime drama.  When Wahlberg and Ferrell are on screen, then its supposed to be a comedy(forced, I may add).  All the other scenes are acted out more dramatically, so there is a sense of confusion as to what it is trying to be. It was probably striving to be like Starsky and Hutch, but never quite makes it.

If you are a Will Ferrell fan, then you should check this movie out for its "Ferrell" moments. This movie unfortunately doesn't feel like a McKay flick, and the movie is uneven at best.(The first half is definitely better than the second).  I forgive the fact that this review has been mostly negative, but McKay movies are generally stand out and each one usually tops the other, but this one is definitely a step in the negative direction.