I just finished watching a rented copy of this movie and logged on to purchase it for my son who is studying theatre.  I've read some of the negative reviews and I hope those reviewers get a chance to view the movie again, maybe in a few months.  It takes time for new ideas to sink in and for minds to open and embrace change.  Using aspergers to frame an understanding of experiences is genius - Khan understands language more literally than most people and has a more difficult time picking up social cues and expressing himself.  He also dislikes touch which makes the romance underlying the film both sweet and also comical - helpful in offsetting the many serious issues.  Having been taught right from wrong in very beautiful and simple scenes between the wonderful actress playing his mother and the talented young actor playing the young Khan, he has strong values which help him face prejudice stemming from his aspergers, his looks, and his religion.

The movie is a bit over the top, managing to work in school bullying, sibling rivalry, immigration, identification of aspergers (his sister-in-law is a professor of psychology - maybe that could have been handled in a more natural subtle way), living as an adult with aspergers (employment, relationships, parenting), single motherhood, 9/11 and the racism that followed and the wars, death of a child, terrorism, media coverage, a Katrina-like storm in a tiny southern town (although I loved those scenes), and even the 2008 election and meeting the president.  While the movie could have made the same points in a simpler way by focusing on just one or two geographic areas, it was very entertaining and touching.  And pulling in all the different topics made it easier to see how most people have some prejudices, even though they only recognize the prejudices of the people who hurt them.

I loved the music, particularly using "We shall overcome," in multiple languages.  Music is so powerful and finding common ground in music can bring people together.  I also loved the several parts of the movie where people came together to worship although they were from different faiths.

I recommend this film for families with older children.  There are several languages spoken with subtitles in sections which makes it a perfect movie for older children who haven't been exposed to a variety of cultures.  And everyone, young and old, can benefit from a reminder that the only real difference between people that matters is whether they do good deeds or bad.