I am a huge fan of the musical and own both DVDs- the orignal and the made for T.V. DVD. I also own the Broadway C.D and have seen the show three times. I was so excited when, I heard that Disney planned on re-doing the musical. I looked forward to it and when Annie first aired on ABC my mom let me stay up later than my bedtime to watch it. I had high hopes for the made for T.V musical- hearing that it was going to stick more to the Broadway show than the orignal did. But, it failed it lacked some kind of wonder or spark you would assume to get from it.

Kathy Bates is no doubt an increadible actress but, in Annie I got no sense that she was evil or had it out for the orphan and was highly disappointed in her performance as the evil Ms. Hannigan. The orphans were cute but, lacked the talent, sweetness that you got from the orignal sweeties.Alicia Morton despite the rave reviews she has recieved online failed to impress me as the darling orphan and her voice seemed to lack the part- not to mention the charm you saw in the orginal Annie- Aileen Quinn.

Their were a few good points I didn't know Victor Garber could sing and he had charisma as Oliver Warbucks I found myself wishing he would adopt me. And Audra McDonald who did a fabulous job in the Broadway musical Ragtime does just as good a job in Annie as Grace I found her increadibly charming and sweet. The dog of course is cute and I think was brought from the revival cast of the musical.

But, the story was horribly adapted a mixture of the orignal and the Broadway musical leaving out a "New Deal For Christmas" and the F.D.R version of "Tomorrow" perhaps to save time but, it was a wrong move.

This movie is bound to keep kiddies occupied for a time but, still dosn't have the charm that the orignal has- the great cast. Now, I do have problems with the orignal Annie- the storyline and such but despite that everytime I see it I feel happy and compared to this version it's the BEST alternative. I suppose why this musical made for television failed was because it was made for television which gave producers, directors, and actors less time to prepare and put the finishing details on it. The casting process too was a bit rigidity and I find myself baffled why they didn't cast kids that had a little bit more Broadway ecxpierience(Alicia Morton is the only one). You feel little to no connection in the cast and most members are decent singers but just lack pizazz!

Judging by some of the reviews some people are bound to like it but, after it finished on television I felt nothing but disappointment and I only wished they had made this into an actual movie instead of T.V. it might have turned out better. Oh well at least we have the orignal and Tomorrow to hold onto!