This was an interesting concept for me.  It's basically playing on a lot of obscure hardcore philosophies.  Namely that the human soul is a fragmented piece of a greater whole, and that all paths eventually are to reuniting those souls as a single entity.  The theme here is what if humanity doesn't WANT to reassimilate?  What if we strive to maintain our independent self?  Now, I knew this from university Philosophy classes, but NOWHERE was it explained in Evangelion.  This's an early Christian viewpoint actually, but it fails to provide a method of renewal of souls.  If all paths lead to the perfect whole, where do new humans and thus souls come from?  This's a flaw in the philosophy, it's not Evangelion's fault.

Actually, there was a lot of stuff like this, such as subjective reality.  The old Greek cave is a good analogy.  If you are born in a cave facing the back wall and never turn around, soon the shadows on the back wall become your reality.  You're oblivious to the world in the other direction.  What they got TOTALLY WRONG here was the fact that just because your reality differs, the physical surroundings do NOT.  The universe will not cease to exist because you choose not to believe in it.  They make this false assumption in the last half of the series, and it's all downhill from there.  Again, hardcore philosophy that was NOT explained well in the series.

Or even gotten right, for that matter.  Go right ahead.  Truly believe that the door isn't there in your new reality, then punch right where it was as hard as you can.  You will break your hand.  This is what philosophers call Truth.  We feel the door, we see the door, we can't unwill the concept of "door" from being.  So the door IS.  We can affect it in the framework of our reality (moving it, opening it, breaking it, etc.), but we cannot unmake it through will alone.

*Spoiler*

Further thing that irked me was all the thrown away characters.  Asuka's a perfect example.  A likable troubled cutie, she provides the needed counterpart and love interest for Shinji.  Yet in the end all past history goes out the window and she's relegated to lying alone in a hospital bed.  What the hell?!  Real people don't act like this!  While Shinji's busy professing his love for some alien GUY he just met, Asuka (who he spent WEEKS getting attached to and actually kissed) is lying alone in bed desperately needing someone to prove to her she's NOT unwanted and alone.  That's all!

Was I the only one who saw the resolution of the series as totally unnecessary?  Over half the characters are constantly whining about how alone they are.  Yet when Asuka NEEDS them, they basically drug her up, strap her down, and tell her to take off.  Shinji does the same dang thing to Misato, though she deals with it better.  Lame to the max.  Totally unrealistic of what longterm human relationships are like.  I don't care how cold and removed you are.  Robots have more compassion and rational thought.

News flash here, if someone you care about's lonely and YOU are lonely, all you have to do is go and be there for em.  Then, amazingly enough, you both aren't so alone anymore!  It's that classic "free your mind, your a**'ll follow" thing.  Evangelion totally skirts this simple solution, and in doing so it leaves a gaping hole that makes the end plot totally unlikely to EVER happen as we're supposed to believe it does.

Series finale was executed weakly at best.  None of the aforementioned underpinning philosophies were adequately described.  What you're left with is a confusing, ridiculous montage that culminates in a lackluster conclusion to an otherwise great series.

It almost seems to me that midseason they switched writers and hired a terminally depressed guy to write the script.  Better bust out your psychedelic drugs at the end, cuz that's about the only way the conclusion will be satisfying.  Heck, it may even make some remote semblance of sense, then.  "By repeating what people have been saying to me over and over again, I suddenly come to grips with myself and make the whole universe bend to my whims!  No matter that I deserted my loved ones when they needed me most!"

Yeah.  Right.  Pull the other one.  You'll notice the Greeks with their cave never said that the individual could alter the cave or the outside world in any way, merely the individual's PERCEPTION of that reality.  They at least understood that.

Evangelion left me feeling confused and unsatisfied at its conclusion, which is sad because I LOVED the first and middle sections of the series.  The last half the characters become inhuman and unrational to extremes, and that killed it for me.  Classic case of "the message" ruining a perfectly good story.

My fix for this?  Admit that the Truth of the universe is concrete.  Admit it can't be manipulated beyond the limits of our biology and the Truth of a human existence.  Have Kaji die WITH Misato rather than stupidly avoiding her.  Have Ritsuko date the good looking guitar playin' tech, the fact she's sleeping with someone her hated mother did is beyond the realm of belief.  Have Shinji actually GROW as a character.

And for god's sake, have him walk in after defeating the 13th Angel and plant a scorcher on Asuka for some REAL dang resolution.

To quote Myth Busters, "I reject your reality, and substitute my own!"  Sorry, but as those guys prove time and again, we humans cannot do that.

3/2/06
Have recently watched all of RahXephon.  From my personal opinion, just skip Eva altogether and get that.  You'll end up depressed as hell after Eva, so unless you REALLY like mecha it's like punching yourself in the head.  You might as well just stop and feel better. RahXephon explained their underpinnings MUCH better, it looked better (the Mu are frickin awesome), had more likable characters, and the ending was pretty good resolution.  Let's face it, after 26 episodes you actually will want to see a closer that shows how it all winds up.  From a user friendly standpoint I feel Rah's got Eva beat in all aspects.  Eva may've done it first, but RahXephon did it right.