If you're a Jason Lee fan (like me), you can appreciate it when he flashes a big smile, gives you a thumbs-up, or suddenly raises his voice when he's angry.  His expressions are funny.  You'll see a lot of mugging and a few good jokes in this: your average romantic comedy.
Jason Lee plays Paul, a man who is about to get married and continue a career at his father-in-law's corporation.  After his bachelor party, he winds up in bed with a Tiki dancer from the bar.  He believes he slept with her and tries to hide it from his uptight fiancee Karen (Selma Blair).  He finds out later that the Tiki girl is actually Karen's cousin Becky (Julia Stiles).  While Paul tries to keep their night together a secret, even though no sex took place, he finds himself in a series of slapstick situations.  Some enlist gross-out humor and innuendo (and we've seen this done better before).  The main problem with these gags is that you can always see them coming.  You're not given hints, you're flat-out TOLD what is going to happen.  It takes the surprise out of what could have been some funny moments.  The only really funny, unexpected giggle happens during a scene featuring Paul and his ballroom dance instructor.
I really didn't like the overall message of the movie.  Do guys really have this understanding that it's okay to cheat because they are "hunters?"  Would a father-in-law really say "It happens" if he found out that the man engaged to his daughter had cheated on her?  
Bad messages and predictability aside, this movie is kind of a typical, no-brain-needed escape flick.  It's not to be taken too seriously, and it was probably better suited for rental rather than a trip to the cinema.  I've seen better performances out of Jason Lee (Chasing Amy), Julia Stiles (Ten Things I Hate About You), and Selma Blair (Legally Blonde).  You can always rent the movie and judge for yourself.  There are no twists at the end or anything, so if you find that you really don't like it about halfway through, just turn it off and take it back.