This movie is really just a vehicle for Busby Berkeley's expressionist film making and Carnem Miranda's exuberant physicality.  The movie as whole has a surreal quality, with nominally realistic scenes morphing seamlessly into psychadelic displays of waving fruit, detached body parts, and human kaleidoscopes in which hundreds of women are used as living design elements as Victorians constructed pictures from hundreds of butterfly wings.  Even in the "realistic" scenes, consistency of color and costume and extreme theatricality (every minute of it are shot in a studio) lend an unnatural quality.  This film should be compared with the surreal sequences in Hitchcock's "Spellbound" and Disney's "Dumbo" and "Fantasia", which came out at about the same time.

The juxtaposition of psychodelia and a conventional romantic plot is often hilarious.  You can't tell whether Berkeley is consciously mocking the plot conventions and stock characters of the day or simply taking advantage of the opportunity to create his own brand of spectacle.

The only player who seems completely comfortable in this dreamworld is Ms. Miranda, whose fruit-and-pompom-decked character is somewhere between a Latin Bugs Bunny and a female Marx Brother (a "Marx Sister"?).  This is the movie in which she sambas in her famous fruit-salad hats.  She attacks her role with a gleeful goofiness including much eye-rolling, malapropism, and frenetic whole-body acting.  The net effect is completely absorbing, especially in comparison with the stiff, monotonously loud performances around her.  She has a subversive influence in group scenes, such as the drive to the estate, where her mildly smirking, eye-rolling character sucks audience attention away from the wooden characters carrying the dialogue in the foreground.

With the passage of decades, what is the cultural significance of this film?  It's hard to say, but one comes away with a sense of rebellion against the earnest patriotic and romantic drivel which dominated wartime films.  It's easy to imagine the anarchic, self-confident Ms. Miranda as the spiritual mother of Lucille Ball and Lily Tomlin, and the grandmother of all the normal women who, today, benefit from these pioneers' refusal to accept gender stereotypes.

The clothing is amazing (Louis XIV would love these pajamas), and there is a sensational performance by an acrobat in the garden party scene.