Produced by Louis Edelman and directed by William Seiter, this sparkling diamond of a musical is one of the best films to come out of the  1940s.  Released in 1942, and starring Fred Astaire and Rita Hayworth, in their second and final pairing, "You Were Never Lovelier" had all the necessary ingredients to make the weary soldiers of WW2, forget the battlefield, and refocus on the fact that there was still much beauty left in the world. Even though the plot is dated by today's standards, it is a fine musical that anyone can enjoy.

Fred Astaire plays Robert Davis, a hoofer visiting South America on a holiday, who loses his money on a horse race.  Desperate for a job, he visits the office of club owner/business tycoon, Eduardo Acuna, who is less than cordial.  After the failed visit, we see that Senior Acuna is marrying off his eldest daughter, and insists that his other three daughters marry in chronological order.  Daughter Maria (Rita Hayworth) is next in line, and has no interest in marrying, but his two youngest daughters have beaus that they are engaged to, but they aren't allowed to marry until their sister weds first.

Trouble starts when Acuna takes matters into his own hands, and begins writing love letters and sending orchids to his daughter, thus,  creating a "Secret Admirer" for her to get her imagination going, and to boost her interest in finding a husband.  Davis gets involved by accident when he delivers the orchids to the Acuna home, and Maria spots him and begins to think that he is her unknown suitor.

Without giving away the rest of the story, I do have to say that this film was well acted by all involved
Comic relief in the film is found in Xavier Cougat, who plays himself, Barbara Brown, who plays Mrs. Acuna, and Gus Shilling, who plays Senior Acuna's hard-pressed secretary, Fernando.

The dances are amazing.  From Astaire's solo "Audition Dance", to the elegant ballroom/tap number that he performs with Hayworth in the moonlit garden scene.  To me, the latter was probably the most memorable part of the whole film.  Rita and Fred, dancing against a backdrop of moonlight and flowers.  She is in that flowing black gown, and he with his charming elegance.  It makes you wish that they had made more movies together.

When all is said and done, You Were Never Lovelier is a lovely, romantic and entertaining gem of a film.  I highly recommend it.

Songs & Dances-Music by Jerome Kern, Lyrics by Johnny Mercer.  Dances choreographed by Fred Astaire

Chiu Chiu- Xavier Cougat and His Orchestra
Dearly Beloved- Fred Astaire/Rita Hayworth
Audition Dance- Fred Astaire
I'm Old Fashioned- Fred Astaire and Rita Hayworth
The Shorty George-Fred Astaire, Rita Hayworth, and Xavier Cougat
Wedding in the Spring- Xavier Cougat and His Orchestra
You Were Never Lovelier-Fred Astaire

Cast-
Fred Astaire--Robert Davis
Rita Hayworth--Maria Acuna
Adolph Menjou--Eduardo Acuna
Xavier Cougat--Himself
Gus Shilling--Fernando
Adele Mana--Lita Acuna
Leslie Brooks--Cecy Acuna
Barbara Brown--Delphina Acuna
Isabel Elsom--Maria Castro