I am a huge "Adventure" fan. Indiana Jones is my favorite film character of all time. I bought a playstation just so I could play Uncharted. (For the younger generation, you know where I am coming from.)Kiplings works are a regular fixture on my nightstand. Heck, I've read all of the good Dirk Pitt books, and suffered through a lot of bad ones as well. Adventure is what I'm looking for, and Gunga Din doesn't disappoint.

I was reading a commentary on Indiana Jones' and while Raiders was inspired by Treasure of the Incas (something like that) with Heston; Temple of Doom was influenced heavily by Gunga Din. In fact, some say that the detachment that saves Indy from the cultists at the end is supposed to be the same one from Gunga Din. Temple of Doom was my least favorite of the trilogy, and I had heard that Gunga Din was a superior film.
Keeping all this in mind, I decided I needed to watch the original. I am so very glad I did.

 Gunga Din is fantastic. It is amusing. It is action packed. The first village fight is a running gun battle against overwhelming odds, and you can feel the desperation as the Three lead their small squad in a strategic retreat under fire, scrambling across the rooftops to survive. The villains are brutal, ruthless, and cunning. This movie doesn't stop once it gets rolling.

The comedic segments are well done, blending the light-hearted fare in with a deft hand. They provide a balance from the action that I have not seen anywhere besides Indiana Jones. Grant is amusingly juvenile, and cocky. MacLaghlen is wonderfully simple, with a childlike dedication, and a serpentine wit underlying his surface. Fairbanks plays a dashing heroic stereotype quite well, his reluctance to leave either of his loves, the service or fiancee, was to me quite poignant. Each of the actors did quite well with their characters but together they were exceptional.

Sam Jaffee. Well, the movie is rightly named Gunga Din. A waterboy, a native to the land, and easily the most heroic and noble of any of the characters.

A previous reviewer was correct. Some of the Brits are a bit racist in their speech, a probably realistic characterization of 19th infantrymen unwillingly posted in a hostile climate, ill tempered and cranky. And it is obvious that "villains" of the story are much more intelligent than the protagonists. This is a first for me, a classic b&w film that shows white men as intellectually inferior. Refreshing though.

I RARELY give anything 5 stars, but I feel this deserved it. Watch this film if you like classics, if you like Adventure films, if you like well made films. Watch this film if you are looking for a good time. It's just plain fun.