What remarkable research went into the production of this documentary! I mean, how can anyone doubt after seeing this that Paul isn't dead? Impossible. The voice is eerily George Harrison's, no doubt. One minor mistake though. It was actually recorded in 2002, one day before the release of his posthumous album, "Brainwashed." WHOA! WAIT! George Harrison recorded new music after he died!? They need to make a film about that one too! They can call it, "George is Dead, And Still Making Music." (I got copyright on it!)

Okay, so here's the facts:

1. Paul died in a car crash in 1966. They got a perfect look-alike who happened to be more talented than the original Paul BECAUSE everyone, almost, agrees that The Beatles got better with Sgt. Pepper's and onward, so if the original Paul had lived, they'd still be singing "she loves you yeah yeah yeah" - the new and improved Paul is the real genius, and that's why John got so jealous, so he hooked up with Yoko just to irritate the new and more talented Paul. He started throwing in those lyrics when you play it backwards it says "Sorry guys, Paul is dead' or "I buried Paul" or "Paul died in 1966 and the new Paul is a blue meanie" -- oh did you miss that last one?? Well, if you play "Revolution 1" backwards for 3 seconds, then forwards for 5 seconds, you hear it clearly!

2.The new and improved Paul went on to have a marvelous solo career, and that's why John didn't talk to him any more. John knew if the the original Paul had lived, then there's no way on earth he would've been as popular as the new Paul, there never would've been Wings, no "Band On The Run," and no massive sell-out world tours going on strong STILL! Nope. It would've been the mediocre old Paul singing "she loves you yeah yeah yeah" till maybe 1975 at best, then fading into the sunset of 1976 as a glorified has-been.

3. The "Abbey Road" album cover. I mean, come on, of course they dressed like that to tell the world Paul is Dead. Why else would they wear those clothes? I mean, it couldn't be that they MEANT THAT THE BEATLES AS A GROUP WERE ON THEIR WAY TO THEIR OWN FUNERAL, BEING THEY KNEW AHEAD OF TIME IT WAS THEIR LAST ALBUM TOGETHER?? NAHHHH SCRATCH THAT! It was the new Paul walking barefoot with the cigarette in hand, the walking dead, his conscience was eating at him, he wanted subconsciously to get caught, the secret to be revealed - the truth was killing him inside! And when the truth came out in 1969, thanks to the Abbey Road clues plus the backward messages in previous songs... well, not enough people believed it, no one could accept the old Paul was dead. So new Paul thought to himself, 'Oh well, I tried to tell them, but they just wouldn't believe it.' So his conscience was at ease, and he could go on to have a stellar solo career, continuing four decades strong and still going!

Now you know the real story. I hope I didn't spoil the movie for you. It's just my interpretation. I could be wrong, but we know I'm not.

Oh, one last thing... the MI5, or whatever they prefer to be called, goofed big time. They replaced Paul in 1966, cool, good job on that boys, BUT why didn't they replace John in 1980? And why didn't they replace George in 2001? It was fast, easy, smooth to replace Paul, they should've done the same for John and George, shame on them!
We could've still had The Beatles with us now in 2010 :( sigh.