Several years ago, the recut and re-released classic TOUCH OF EVIL revived interest in the work of director Orson Welles, and rightfully so. But what's to be said of THE STRANGER, often sniffed at by Welles scholars as being "too conventional"?

Actually, quite a bit.

THE STRANGER was made at a time when Welles hadn't directed a film in nearly four years. At that time, rumors were circulating as to his unreliability (and lack of marketability). To a certain extent, his reputation for being an out-of-control highbrow was deserved.  He was also, however, an undeniable talent.

THE STRANGER demonstrates this. While the story of the escaped Nazi Franz Kindler (played by Welles) is told in straightforward fashion, there are flourishes of camera and characterization worthy of the maker of CITIZEN KANE. I have to admit that Welles himself in the lead is a bit hammy at times; however, Edward G. Robinson (as a Nazi-hunter) and Loretta Young (as Kindler's unsuspecting wife) have never been better. The plot, too, is quite suspenseful, aided by lively dialogue written by Anthony Viellor, John Huston, and Welles himself.

And Welles the director keeps the picture moving. Particularly fine are the scenes wherein the frightened Young discovers her husband's true identity; the ensuing cat-and-mouse game gets a grip on the audience that doesn't relax until the bravura finale.

Along the way are Wellesian touches that complement--rather than intrude on--the story. Billy House and Constantin Shane (in smaller parts) make significant impact; the scene near the beginning where Kindler murders a good friend is effectively done with crane shots; and a film- within-the-film introduces the Holocaust to American moviegoers. Good, too, is the performance of Richard Long as Young's little brother.

In later life, Welles brushed off THE STRANGER, calling it the most impersonal of his movies, done only to show that he could direct as well as the next fellow (which, according to some wags, meant coming in under budget and on schedule). This is unfair to THE STRANGER, which is a taught, intelligent, well-made thriller, and--at Amazon prices--a great addition to any film buff's DVD collection.