I'd have to give this movie an A-. I read the original script and wish that most of the footage and ideas left out could have made it better. But for what was delivered, it was awesome!!! I've even ordered the DVD from Amazon.com.

So basically, the Rangers (Tommy, Rocky, Kimberly, Billy, Aisha, and Adam) are in a different universe than normal, explaining the lapse of continuity from the TV series. I think of this movie as a different telling of the Ninja Powers, and enjoy it very much.

The Plot:

A typical day in the life of the Rangers, skydiving and helping out Angel Grove through charitable efforts. Bulk and Skull are also around for the ride. The kids go on to enjoy the young life, when on the other side of town, an intergalactic villain is being unearthed. Zordon calls the teens to the Command Center, where he, Alpha 5, and the Center take on drastic new appearances. He then explains the threat of the villain, named Ivan Ooze.

Ooze used to rule the world until ancient Rangers locked him away. Now he's been released, and decides to finish his plan. The Rangers head to his burial site and find him, but he leaves them with mini-"Oozelings" fighters of his own similar to the show's Putty Patrollers. the kids fight unmorphed, but soon decide to morph to fight the Oozelings. Meanwhile, Ivan arrives at the Command Center and destroys it.

At the site, the Rangers defeat the Oozelings and then watch as their powers fade before them. They then head to the Center on foot. Their powers are gone.

When they arrive, Zordon is injured and the Center in terrible condition. Alpha then reveals the only way to save the world is to travel to Phaedos, a planet, and gain the Great Power, which will restore them.

The teens do so, and land on the planet. Rita and Zedd, TV's villains have since allied with Ooze, who ultimately betrays them, locking them away in a snowglobe. On Phaedos, the teens meet another set of henchmen for Ooze, the Tengu warriors. They are defeated with the help of Dulcea, the last of the people of Phaedos. Hostile at first, she comes to aid the Rangers after learning of their allegiance to Zordon, whom she knows well.

They travel to her temple, where she provides them with new Ninja powers, and respective animals. Tommy becomes the Falcon, Rocky the Ape, Kimberly the Crane, Billy the Wolf, Aisha the Bear, and Adam the Frog. The Rangers travel to the source of the Great Power and fight Stone Creatures with their new Ninja Powers. Their success eventually grants them the Power.

While on Phaedos, Ooze and Rita and Zedd's old henchmen busied themselves with enslaving adults and unburing large metallic monsters, to be used in destroying the world. The Rangers arrive just as the monsters begin Ivan's plan.

They then use their new Zords, their own metallic, robotic animals. Before combining, the Zords individually defeat one of the two monsters, called Ectomorphicons. Ivan becomes angry and then place himself in the structure of the second Ectomorphicon. The Rangers form the Ninja Megazord and later on, the Ninja Megafalconzord, when the fight goes out into space. A battle ensues, with the Rangers pushing Ivan into a "comet" and saving the world.

They return to the Command Center, and with the Great Power, reconstruct the Center and revive Zordon. The day ends with the Rangers being congradulated with dinner on the town, and fireworks celebrating the success they had in saving the city, again.

This movie is a KIDS movie. Do not try to analyze it and expect more from it. Most importantly, it teaches a lesson and is great for its target audience. I loved it as a kid, and it brings back great memories.