Unlike most people posting reviews of this film here, I had not seen it when I was younger, while on drugs, nor did I even know what Pink Floyd was. Rather I simply found a short clip from "The Wall" online, watched it, and was stunned. Needless to say, I hunted down the film, and watched it in one sitting, and when it was over?

I bought the original 2 disc album, and listened to it daily. Truth be told, the music itself tells a pretty good story, if dark and depressing for a good deal of it's duration. Had I heard the music before the film, I'd have known what to expect. Of course I didn't, but comparing the two is pretty stupid in my opinion. The reason for that is, while hardcore fans seem to take to heart the fact that the key factors in the production of this film weren't happy with it, they did in fact create a masterpiece of film and music fused into one giant story that has more layers and depth then most films I can name.

Trying to take "The Wall" and make a film from it, must have been as trying and difficult as Kubrick's direction of "2001", as both films are stretching and reaching to not only absorb you, but trap you in a world of sight and sound, where there is no escape till the credits roll. The problem with this film is, too many people are viewing it once or twice, and missing more complex metaphors to physiological viewpoints or at the bare minimum, the main point. Merging live action segments with animation, creating tripy and psychedelic imagery for a purpose. It isn't just random algimations here, we are seeing the inner workings of a mind that seeks to isolate itself from the world...and thus build a wall, to keep everything and anything out.

It's much deeper then that, but what must be said is, despite how bizarre or insane it might seem, it's a film that anyone can connect with, since it isn't about "Pink", it's about everyone, and everything, just as "2001" wasn't about outer space, it was about humanity and evolution. Everything you see is just window dressing for the real message-

"Tear down the wall".

This film introduced me to Pink Floyd's music, and to "The Wall", which stands as one of the greatest rock albums of all time. The film is the visual representation of that album...therefore?

It's one of the greatest films ever made, that doesn't require you to know the music, the band, or anything before going in. Just know you will be glued to your chair for the duration, and when it's over?

You will never be the same again.