As somebody who loves westerns, it's impossible for me not to be a huge fan of John Wayne (especially his westerns).

At the time this film was made, John's best work was clearly behind him. In fact, he had just come off of making a couple of tough-guy detective movies which, while I enjoyed them, weren't universally praised.

The Shootist was Wayne's last film and what a film it was.

Like the Wild Bunch and Monte Walsh, one of the themes of this film deals with the idea of the fading west of the 1860's to 1880's and how older. legendary and non-legendary characters of the west have to adapt to the changing times.

In the Shootist, Wayne plays an aging gunfighter, J. B Books who rides into 1901 Carson City. He immediately goes to see an old doctor friend - played by another screen legend, Jimmy Stewart, who informs him that the pain Books feels in his lower back is, in fact, cancer and that he doesn't have long to live.

Book's reputation proceeds him and needless to say, there are individuals who want to earn an instant reputation as the man who killed famed shootist JB Books.

The entire movie revolves around the days that he resides in Lauren Bacall's rooming house and preparing for his death.

I loved this movie from the earliest moments of the film when a montage of scenes of previous Wayne films was played depicting the life of JB Books right up to the final gunfight in the Acme Saloon.

This movie is so good on so many levels.

I always thought that John Wayne was significantly underated as an actor. In this film, he plays the dying man with a wonderful sense of dignity. His interaction with the Widow Bacall was very enjoyable to watch.

And there were some good scenes with Scatman Crothers - Ron Howard, who plays Bacall's son and who knows all about the legendary Books. Harry Morgan, who plays the town's sherrif, can't wait to see Books dead - after all it's now 1901 and the west is changing and Morgan doesn't need to have his peaceful town shattered by other gunfighters wanting to claim the trophy known as JB Books.

What a movie to go out on.

Rest in peace, John, and thanks for countless hours of entertainment.