Directed by Milos Forman and starring Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher, this is a 5-oscar-winning masterpiece and deservedly so. I first saw this picture in '76 and have watched it more times than is decent since, so much so I almost know the script by heart. Based on the novel by Ken Kesey and set in an Oregon mental institute, this tragicomedy is the single most profound drama I have ever seen and with a denouement so powerful and unforgettable I feel my life has been changed and enriched by the privilege of witnessing it. Whatever you think of Jack Nicholson, his performance here as R P McMurphy - a prison-dodging, sane-as-can-be sex offender confined for psychiatric assessment - is mesmerizing. As too are the performances of Louise Fletcher (Head Nurse Ratched) and a supporting ensemble of actors including Danny deVito, Christopher Lloyd, Will Sampson, William Redfield and Brad Dourif, all playing utterly convincing roles, indistinguishable - as I'm sure any psychiatric worker would vouch - from real-life mental patients.

 It is the ebullient McMurphy's disruption of the tranquility of the hospital ward that brings him into conflict with Ratched's stone-hearted, authoritarian matron. She runs a tight ship convinced it's for the benefit of the patients. Her idea of therapy is to have everyone sitting in a circle, ostensibly to benefit from discussion and to air their mundane issues, but with the main agenda of maintaining and reinforcing a despiriting regime of rigid conformity. These sessions often start morosely and silently but invariably end with raucous and hilarious shouting matches which are so perfectly and authentically played by the ensemble cast that you feel as though you're watching a documentary, but a riveting one at that. Here also we are introduced to some of the more vocal patients who though quirky and laden with issues, are generally more articulate and intelligent than those beyond the asylum. Outside of these lively discourses, the patients are kept subdued by daily dosages of drugs. Any hint of insurrection is quelled by fear of Ratched's excoriating disapproval and her arsenal of truncheon-wielding orderlies, disposed on her say-so to remove a patient by force to another ward where electroconvulsive therapy is meted out to the specially deserving.

R P McMurphy lands onto this lugubrious, ordered world like a fun-loving Martian. He is a boisterous, big-hearted, roguish extrovert and, once settled in, wins the confidence and in turn the admiration and hero worship of his fellow inmates. Excepting the "chronics", McMurphy can scarcely distinguish (and neither can we) between the patients and "the average a**hole walking about out there on the street". But the trouble begins when he bets with his fellow patients that he can, within a week, "stick a bug so far up Nurse Ratched's a** she won't know whether to s**t or wind her wrist-watch." This sets the scene for psychological warfare with, on the one side, McMurphy leading a bunch of fired up, newly assertive patients, and on the other, the system, or the "Combine", fronted by Nurse Ratched. The conflict comes to a head when McMurphy arranges a wild party for the patients to liven up their otherwise monotonous and colorless existences. However, it will be seen in the devastating and brutal consequences that the system deems itself having more to lose than those who would dare to confront it. Catering for individual aspirations and for patient happiness it seems were very far outside the remit of the mental healthcare system as it was. With undertones of Spartacus - possibly explaining Kirk Douglas' interest, whose son Michael brought the novel to the screen - this story brings into searing focus the cruelty and inhumanity of sectors of mental healthcare in sixties US.

Now to say further would be to give too much away. But believe me, this is a genuinely funny, bitterly tragic, remarkable, compelling, totally absorbing, emotionally draining and brilliant picture, so rightly deserving of its stature as one of the best films of all time - in this reviewer's opinion, the very best.