Whether or not someone is eagerly awaiting opportunity to be offended, most people today will be by this movie, made in 1914, when the NAACP was emerging and civil rights was not the major political issue it became.  D.W. Griffith grew up in post-Civil War Kentucky, and his personal feelings about Reconstruction were influenced by his parents and Confederate veteran friends of his veteran father.  I admire Griffith, not for his racial views, which I don't think reflected his genius for filmmaking, but for his contributions to the early development of motion pictures.

Blacks, as portrayed in this work, are not the villains.  They are clearly portrayed as being manipulated by vengeful and greedy whites.  This may or may not be entirely accurate historically, but manipulation of Americans continues, as it has throughout our history.  Even the black man who is lynched for attempting rape of a young white girl is shown terrified to the point where one cannot help but feel compassion.

Lincoln is portrayed as a hero, and as a true American martyr.  One senses Griffith's relief the war ended as it did, but he was entitled to his personal feelings about the treatment of ex-Confederates.  Laughing at or poking fun at D.W. Griffith is like trying to remake a great Hitchcock movie.  What's the point?  What movie fan should laugh at perhaps the single most important person in cinema history?  Laugh at him next time you see a great movie you enjoy, no matter who made it.

Madacy's DVD edition is black and white and appears taken directly from a videotape, but it is fine for the price.  It seems to be from a Blackhawk Films print.  THE BIRTH OF A NATION may offend, but is a great motion picture, perhaps the most important, and offence by some of its content should be tempered with attempts to understand the complexities of Reconstruction and Lost Cause mentality, something its director was early educated in and had a difficult time seeing beyond.  He was not responsible for KKK resurgence.  He made a great movie and advanced an art form.