OK I have been following HALO and playing it since the initial release. I have read the book, beat all the games and seen all the behind the scenes stuff and backstory content type deals. I had REALLY high hopes for this but was throughly disappointed. One or two of the stories was decent but thats just it, >decent&lt;. Most were very cliche' and they were all pretty short.

Possible spoilers may follow depending on how fast you forget things you read:

One of the video shorts style was to be out of focus, so out of focus that you can't even follow combat mostly and the story was just not entirely fulfilling.

Another was like they were trying to make an episode of Dragonball Z, which don't get me wrong I like Dragonball but thats not the universe that these stories are supposed to be taking place in. I'm sorry but the Spartans aren't supposed to be able to defy gravity or take what appear to be world ending death beams, let alone normal humans! Oh and did I mention the kids in cavemen outfits and that had a pet T-REX?!

In one episode there is talk of a spartan dying on a mission that had taken place by the personnel on a UNSC ship, this makes no sense for several reasons. The foremost being that Spartans are never listed as KIA, only MIA and the fact that there is no way the normal personnel would have any idea of what happened on a mission with a Spartan. This part of my review is nitpicky I know but all the books just illustrated these little facts so much that it was annoying to me.

Now for the last episode, good grief! First off one spartan just goes off on a whim and dies and doesn't even confirm with team leader 117. Sorry but after over a decade of training and discipline do you really think the proclaimed "Ultimate Soldier" would do anything like that let alone be condoned by a teammate? Then they introduce Dr. Halsey who was supposed to be woman well established in her field when the Spartans didn't even exist yet, she picked them and made them. So why about 15-20years later would she look like a woman in her early 20's at worst? Another point on that is that the Covenant supposedly don't know just how valuable she is, if thats the case then why did the capture her to begin with? To continue on with Dr. Halsey, she seems to be flirty as hell with 117 and uses one of Cortana's signature lines. This episode was just terrible in story line and was worthy of, like most of the other episodes, at most being a Saturday morning cartoon.