A friend of mine recently communicated the need to watch this new documentary by Robert Greenwald entitled Iraq for Sale: The War Profiteers. If you've ever been curious on where our tax dollars are going, and why the cost is so dramatically high to fund the war in Iraq, then you need to see this film. But that's just the tip of the iceberg. Did you know that our tax dollars are going to large corporations such as Halliburton, KBR (a subsidiary of Halliburton), CACI, and Titan? The reason for this is to outsource jobs to contractors in Iraq to handle many of the daily tasks that our military men and women can handle at a fraction of the cost. Many of these contractors are employed as military intelligence officials such as interrogators and interpreters for the United States that may have no patriotic tie to our country! And many of these contractors lack the skills necessary to fulfill their job duties. Not only have lobbyists helped solidify multi-million dollar deals with the government for these large corporate entities, but they do so at the cost of civilian lives.

These corporations are sending unprotected contractors out into a war zone where many stay. One example of many is how Halliburton sent a group of truckers towards Baghdad to deliver supplies to U.S. troops. They encountered what appeared to be a deadly ambush where some of the men were killed. The atrocity here is that some of the trucks were empty so that Halliburton could overcharge the government on deliveries that didn't exist. And all of this at the cost of human lives in exchange for corporate greed and back door deals with our administration.

After watching this documentary, you may wonder why the situation in Iraq remains stagnant, and why there are so many billions of dollars poured into Iraq. The administration is using U.S. tax dollars to fund their contract agreements. This makes both elected officials and the corporations they work with very rich while draining the life from our own economy, and raising the deficit to unprecedented levels. For a little perspective, we borrow approximately three billion dollars a day from China and other foreign countries just to stay above water.

I've been in numerous conversations with friends and family regarding government corruption, corporate greed, and the lobbying that occurs behind closed doors. I'll often get angry and say, "Most Americans blindly follow like sheep. They believe whatever they're told by the media or government. Why don't they open their eyes?" But then I thought for a moment about the action I've taken. I haven't taken any action. I've complained about others, but sit around doing nothing. I'm more guilty then Americans that lack the truth to take action. But just as an outraged Peter Finch yelled in Network, "I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to take it anymore!" It's time to get the word out there. It's time to start questioning the government, educating people about the truth, and demanding that our government and the corporations that they protect take accountability for their actions.

I think every political party has good and bad ideas, but it's important to remain a skeptic when it involves politics. Don't simply believe everything you're told--especially if told by a member of your own party affiliation, because you'll have to overcome your own subjectivity. Research the truth, question our elected officials, and demand change. You may sit comfortably in your home with a nicely cut lawn, but that could change. And looking back 15 or 20 years from now, you may wonder why you sat back and let things crumble without so much as raising your voice.

What you read above were the exact words that I communicated to every last person I know in a formal email. I essentially copied and pasted it here as a review to demonstrate the sheer power that this film holds, and the actions that you'll likely take as a result of viewing it. It pushes you into action, because by doing nothing, you'll feel an extreme amount of guilt.

I think that sums up my thoughts on Iraq for Sale: The War Profiteers.