Now that MADE FOR EACH OTHER has been gloriously restored on this latest DVD, it is easy to see why it was chosen by THE NEW YORK TIMES as one of the Ten Best Films of the Year in 1939, arguably the greatest year in motion pictures.  Indeed, it is a film that could easily have influenced IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE (which also stars Jimmy Stewart).

Simply put, this is a film that traces the first couple years of Carole Lombard and Jimmy Stewart, two newleyweds who face career disappointments, meddling in-laws, financial woes, etc...  Although the material may sound familiar, the actors, writer, and director find a fresh way of portraying "scenes from a marriage."  There is enormous warmth, humor, and pathos in the interplay between Lombard and Stewart, with great contributions from the supporting cast.  Director Cromwell builds a scene beautifully -- much like George Stevens and George Cukor did.  The dinner that Lombard throws for Stewart's boss is a perfect example, as Lombard's efforts are undermined by a disgruntled housekeeper, unwelcome guests, and a malfunctioning icebox.

Carole Lombard is known for her comedies (MY MAN GODFREY, TO BE OR NOT TO BE, NOTHING SACRED), but this performance is easily one of her best.  Lombard is so natural, beautiful, and compelling, and she and Stewart create such a believable couple that it makes you yearn for a re-teaming, especially in THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER. Unfortunately, she only made five more films after MADE FOR EACH OTHER before her life was tragically cut short in a plane crash.  Her engagement and subsequent marriage to Gable at the time she was filming MADE FOR EACH OTHER revealed a vulnerable, nurturing, and commanding presence that should have brought her an Oscar nomination.  However, in a year that boasted Vivien Leigh's Scarlett, Greta Garbo's Ninotcha, and Judy Garland's Dorothy, it is easy to see why Lombard's Jane Mason was sadly overlooked.

The last twenty minutes of the film does disolve into soap opera, but it is still expertly done.  MADE FOR EACH OTHER deserves a reappraisal, and this beautifully restored version is a wonderful reason to experience the film anew.