I found A Bronx Tale to be one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Perhaps, I am stretching it a bit, but it seemed to me to use life growing up in the Bronx in the 60's to portray the gradual coming to adult conclusions about life around you.
  The young C is drawn into the world of a mobster.  But, the mobster is something of a community protector.  On the one hand, he is seeking power, but on the other hand he doesn't let things get out of hand in his community.  The young C grows up at first as a young boy whose life is centered around Mantle, Maris, and the Yankees.  His community changes, and by the end of the movie he is in high school and the problems move from Mazeroski hitting the home run to beat the beloved Yankees, to the influx of blacks into the area.
  It seemed to me that in some ways the movie was almost a parable portraying the two pulls in American foreign policy.  C's dad constantly tells his son to go home, to not get involved into affairs that is none of his business.  C's dad strikes me as displaying the idea that the world outside of our own family is dangerous and is not to be entered.  On the other hand C's moster mentor is a worldly wise man who has learned to build an empire.  In a poignant point in the film, the mobster acknowledges to C that he had once spent time in prison, when he was there, he read "The Prince" by Machiavelli.  There is the parable, a father constantly seeking to keep his son from being influenced and hurt by the foreign world around him, whether it be mobsters, bad kids, or negroes as compared to a godfather who rules the community, with some deep flaws but also in some ways a force for good.  In the end C becomes a blend of both men.  He is learning to have relationships with the foreign as well as the domestic in his Bronx world.  The world is never so simple as his father wanted it to be for his son, but also he knows he cannot live like the mentor that he respected, for almost no one loved this man, he was feared and not loved.  C at the end of the movie is a young man with a lot of promise but a very undetermined future.  He has learned from a mobster the way of Machiavelli and he has learned from his father the way of isolation.  He will never be comfortable with either.  Perhaps, I am stretching the message of this movie, but I think the future of America's place in the world is being decided as our nation grows up in a world where we can try to rule it by might or try to go our own separate way and mind our own business.  C's way of resolving how each of the men that meant the most to him growing up is not made absolutely clear.  It is only clear that C will not allow himself to be cut off from his world in its fulness, but the way of Machiavelli and seeking to be the community's superpower has its shortcomings as well.
  Perhaps, I stretched the meaning of the movie, but for depth of character and personality in the men who influenced C this movie should be seen.  It can be appreciated apart from my political theories, so don't be afraid to see it.  There is some violence and language that some won't like to see, but it is one of the best movies about life's complexities one can ever see.