I'm not going to get into a full episode by episode review of this season, nor do I have any intention of arguing passionately against those who moan to the heavens about the weaknesses of season seven.
Instead, I'm just going to say that unlike other seasons, where the bad episodes made me cringe for hours afterward ("The Field Where I Died," or SEASONS 8 AND 9 anyone?) nothing in this season offended me to elicit more than a shrug and a "There's always next week."  That reaction was limited to two or three episodes, which isn't bad in my book.
And when they were good--they were GOOD.  Sure, the mythology stopped making sense back in season 6's "The Beginning," but the standalone episodes more than picked up the slack for me.  Two standouts for me were The Goldberg Variation and Je Souhaite (arguably the season's storytelling high point and the way I like to "end" the series for myself--Mulder and Scully, hanging out on the couch...), which had an entertaining air of mystery and lightness that seems to only have been replicated by the new USA network series "Monk."  And for those who didn't think the Mulder/Scully tension could be carried on any further without the television exploding, this season finally provides closure and consummation for the two.  And honestly, if you cut off the ridiculous notion of Mulder getting abducted by aliens at the end of "Requiem," that episode would have served as a perfect end for the series--having come full circle from "The Pilot," and allowing the characters to move on.  It was a beautiful episode, and it was the last time the show ever aired something breathtaking.
As far as I'm concerned, nothing on television will ever approach the quality of storytelling, acting, and cinematography of seasons 1-7 of the X-Files.  It's too bad Fox dragged the series out into a sick, sad twisted spinoff of itself in its last two seasons.  Thankfully, season 7 wrapped up the edges neatly enough that any fan of the real X-Files could, in order to appreciate the greatness that the show was, let it be the end of the series and the stories of Mulder and Scully.  And that alone--a decent, legitimate end for the characters and their quests and desires--makes season seven a 10 on my list.