The movie is set in New Zealand and tells the tale of Pai, a young spirited Maori girl, who strives to be accepted by her grandfather, Koro, the tribal chief. The emotional story starts with the tragic event of the death of Pai's mother and twin brother during birth. Pai's grandfather Koro is devastated by the death of who he thought was going to be the next chief of the Maori tribe. Pai's father skips town in search of himself, looking for personal fulfillment, leaving his parents to care for Pai. Legend says that the Maori ancestor known as Paikea, came to New Zealand, saved by a whale when his canoe capsized in a storm. The Maori people hold this animal in high regards, and consider them to determine who their next leader will be.

From the beginning, the Maori leader has always been a first born son. After the letdown of having a granddaughter, Koro begins a class for the boys in his tribe to teach them the ancient ways in hopes of finding the chosen one. He kicks Pai out of the class when she refuses to sit in the back because she desires to learn the ways of her people. Pai turns to the whales, crying out in desperation for their help. Her cry is answered when a herd of these giant animals are beached on the shore. The whole town unites to try to save them. It is only when Pai realizes her destiny, climbs atop the whales back and guides it out into the deep, that they are saved. It's a beautiful story of fulfilling ones destiny in spite of opposition.

Though this is a story of an indigenous religion, its principles relate to religions all over the world. Every religion has traditions and leaders. We pass down these traditions from generation to generation, whether by story telling or by the written word. In this tribe, the leader has always been a male. In most world relgions, this is also the case. Women are not usually in positions of leadership, and even in some religions are considered to be the lesser sex. In all religions, there is a focus of worship, whether it be a person, god, animal, etc. Also, no matter what we believe, we all have a destiny to fulfill and most likely will have to overcome opposition to fulfill it.