Good movie, and in many ways it is a parody of the Western, with the mysterious stranger helping devout pioneers seeking the fruitful valley of their dreams in the west. One line captures this, as a local saloon "lady" says to one settler in an exaggerated accent: "Well ah do declare! Aren't you Mary McCory whose son had a ranch in Hidden Valley up at Blood Butte?" (not an exact transcript but you get the parody of stereotypical Western cliches). And yet Eastwood is able to milk them profitably. When challenged by a bounty hunter who justifies his occupation thus: "A man's got to do something for a living these days," Josey Wales retorts "Dyin' ain't much of a living boy".

Eastwood is also politically incorrect, just as he was in the "Dirty Harry" classics. For example, when Indian Lone Watie (beautifully played by Chief Dan George) begins describing a long litany of familar Indian woes, Josey Wales falls asleep and starts snoring. When the Indian female character Little Monlight chatters on at length, Wales says "Can't you shut her up?" It is doubtful if such moments would make the screen today, but in 1976, Eastwood pulled them off with unapologetic panache. Yet at the same time, the movie shows profound respect for the Native American, demonstrating the prowess of Lone Watie, Little Moonlight, the female Indian as a fighter, and also Ten Bears the Commanche chief.

In one scene, Little Moonlight saves Josey from a bullet by some quick shooting. He pauses amidst the action and the two gaze at each other briefly, conveying a shared respect, one warrior to another. Such moments are worth immeasurably more than a dozen hours of politically correct speechifying and posturing. There is the briefest hint of corny sentimentality expressed in the encounter with with Chief Ten Bears, played strongly by Will Sampson, but overall the film is remarkably clear-eyed and comes off well.

The words of Ten Bears are classic, evoking an era of hard men, plain-speaking, and unsentimental, elemental clarity- a sharp contrast to today's supposedly more sophisticated, but demonstrably corrupt and shallow "nuance".  His mention of "double-tongues" can well describe hypocritical academics, talking heads of the mainstream media, assorted activists, pandering politicians, smug religious clerics and ever more arrogant judges and bureaucrats on all sides of the modern era's political divide.

"It's sad that governments are chiefed by the double-tongues. There is iron in your word of death for all Comanche to see. And so there is iron in your words of life. No signed paper can hold the iron, it must come from men. The words of Ten Bears carries the same iron of life and death. It is thus good that warriors such as we meet in the struggle of life... or death.."

The film works on several levels- as action packed Western, as a commentary, sometimes parody and ultimately a homage to the Western, or as a pointed commentary on the corrupt and cynical society that marginalizes straight-shooting men like Josey Wales, Lone Watie and Ten Bears. Indeed it is clear that Wales has more respect for his Indian opponent than the mealy-mouthed white purveyors of that era's government "spin". It remains to be seen whether the post 9/11 era can still produce men with the clear eyed moral clarity needed to take care of the dirty business that must be taken care of. As Ten Bears says: "No signed paper can hold the iron. It must come from men."