Set in 1986, Ballad tells the tale of an ailing wealthy counterculture environmentalist (Jack) and his teenage daughter (Rose) living on an abandoned commune. Years ago it was prospering but all the members have left, including jack's wife, and only Jack and Rose remained. They spend their days in quiet contentment, gardening, farming --and launching two-men guerrilla attacks on a housing development on the other side of the island.

Living in near isolation, jack and rose develop an incredibly close bond, one that threatens to become incestuous. Terrified of this development, Jack asks his secret mainland girlfriend and her two teenage sons to live with them. The new 'guests' are an unwelcome development to Rose's life. She's incredibly possessive of her father and in retaliation for this intrusion, she tries to seduce the two boys and kill Kathleen (the girlfriend). jack is at wit's end eventually, things cannot go on as they were nor can they continue to coexist in the new situation. He has two choices neither of which are idyll.

This is where the movie goes awry. The movie keeps everything to a very natural level, no overwrought music, and overreactions. This works for most of the movie yet these events are too alarming for the characters to ignore. After Rose tries to shoot Kathleen, all the characters choose to ignore Rose's unhealthy jealousy. They blame her behavior as the result of being isolated from society for too long. But the character came off more like a petulant child instead of a wild child. As her acts became increasingly dangerous, the more I wanted someone to finally tell her enough is enough. The character of Jack is equally unlikable. He chooses to ignore his daughter's unhealthy attachment and when he does fully accept it, he continues to encourage it. This may be a fully organic development of the characters and their relationship, but that doesn't mean it's entertaining. Despite the controversial relationship, the movie vacillates between smug and boring.

The performances are good, my favorite are those of Paul Dano, Ryan MacDonald, and Catherine Keener as the girlfriend and her two sons, there's a naturalness to their acting that is oddly lacking in the depictions of Jack and Rose. Perhaps that is intentional. Jack and Rose are not as much real people as they are idealized environmentalist versions of a fairytale king and his daughter, living in grand isolation until the advent of the evil stepmother, Kathleen. Only in this case the stepmother isn't evil and the new family is more entertaining then the main characters.

There is an extraneous subplot with Beau bridges as a housing developer that serves as metaphorical commentary on Jack and Rose's reltionship, but like the rest of the movie it's too smug to be meaningful.