For me, Tim Burton has always been more miss than hit.  For every excellent effort (ED WOOD, SWEENEY TODD) there seem to be several misfires (SLEEPY HOLLOW, CORPSE BRIDE, BIG FISH.)  Unfortunately, ALICE IN WONDERLAND is mostly a miss for me.  I looked very much forward to his twisted vision, as the ALICE books were insane mash-ups of verbal nonsense and visual oddness (thanks to the classic illustrations from Teniel.)

Burton's film is full of some stunning visuals, most bearing no resemblance to the illustrations...but I'm okay with that.  Burton and his collaborators have re-imagined the look for Wonderland, and that's actually a perfectly valid approach.  Plenty of other ALICE films have tried to hew more closely to the look of the original books.  But what I didn't like was the story Burton chose to tell.

ALICE IN WONDERLAND and THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS are very difficult to handle cinematically, because they don't really tell a cohesive story.  Yes, there is the barest filament of a plot...but it's mostly a string of incidents as Alice meets weird creatures who tell strange and often nonsensical stories.  (There's a reason Jefferson Airplane wrote the song "White Rabbit.")  So I can understand that Burton and crew wanted to force a real plot for all these familiar characters to enact.  However, I think Burton made two mistakes that resulted in one big problem.

Mistake #1 was to set the story later in the life of Alice, so that she's a young lady on the verge of being engaged to a man very much not right for her...instead of a young girl.  It makes sense that a young girl could observe the insanity of wonderland and accept it all.  Rabbits that talk?  Sure, no problem.  A giant caterpillar smoking a hookah?  Yep.  Living playing cards?  Fun!  But as a 19 year old young lady, who is clearly intelligent...wouldn't you at least expect some raised eyebrows?  Granted, the Alice we meet is a curious & imaginative person...but she still seems to have little trouble drinking one potion to shrink and nibbling on something else to grow without giving it a thought.

Mistake #2 was to focus on the politics of Wonderland (actually, in this film, it is called Underland, sadly).  We get this story of the evil Red Queen and the virtuous White Queen, and how their animosity has affected the citizens of the land.  The poor creatures are suffering under the yolk of the bad queen.  It smelled just a little too much like Narnia to me (without the religious overtones).

The net effect of these two mistakes was to sap the film of any real sense of wonder.  I ADMIRED much of the visual look:  Tweedledum & Tweedledee were suitably creepy/funny.  The life-size playing cards / soldiers were well-rendered.  Helena Bonham Carter was a visual marvel as the Red Queen.  But I wasn't swept away.  I didn't feel transported to a new world, I felt invited to a viewing of a really cool set and some nifty CGI.  Wonderland didn't feel REAL, and the story didn't feel compelling.

Mia Wasikowska made for a very striking Alice.  Even though I disagreed with making her a "grown up," I can't fault the actress for that.  She plays her underwritten, one-dimensional role as well as possible.  (I'll say right now that one of Burton's biggest flaws, to me, is that he seldom creates well-rounded characters...usually just a collection of traits.  Some actors can wrangle those quirks and ticks into a believable person...others cannot.)  I enjoyed Helena Bonham Carter as the Red Queen...again, she was seldom asked to do much, but she tore into her role with relish.  A lot of the voice work was very good as well:  Alan Rickman is perfect for the Caterpillar and I always like Stephen Fry (Cheshire Cat.)

Less successful were Crispin Glover as Stayne, the Knave of Hearts.  If ever a character needed to be unhinged, it's Stayne...and usually Glover can deliver unhinged with the best of them.  But he mostly came across as stoic.  Anne Hathaway was bland.  And most disappointing was the usually reliable Johnny Depp.  I'm used to him being the best thing in any Burton movie.  He was flat-out brilliant as Ed Wood, full of wonder as Scissorhands and deliciously villainous as Sweeney.  Yet as the Mad-Hatter, he's all over the map.  Burton has tried to take a minor character from the original books, and stretch him into being the conscious of Wonderland...the IDEA of Depp as the Hatter was great, but reinventing the character just to give your star more to do was a mistake.  He's amusing to look at for a few minutes...but his accent jumps around (and worse, he's often unintelligible in his mumblings) and he appears to have a rather odd fixation on Alice.  Is he "in love" with the lovely young woman he sees now, or is he "in love" with his memory of the 10 year old girl he once met...which is highly creepy, but seems to be the case.

ALICE IN WONDERLAND is a huge disappointment.  Burton is an awkward storyteller but a visual genius.  This time, however, even those skills are found wanting.