This low budget AIP masterpiece was a staple of the channel 5 Sunday afternoon movies (remember those? This was pre-infomercials / Judge Judy, people). I must have seen it 6 times back then, and it made some type of strange impression on my 10 year old mind. I just watched it again last night.

This is not great cinema by any means. There are scenes where people magically change outfits from one shot to the other. There is unapologetic usage of stock nature footage that would make Ed Wood proud. Yes, there are endless shots of frogs (rather, big marine toads if you want to be specific), but what can I say? Refer to the title!

This relatively brisk movie, clocking in at 90 minutes, still has some things going for it.

The setting: If you have ever been in a deserted swampland camping or touring around in a boat, you know how the dense foliage can be oppressive and creepy; this flick makes good use of the historic, desolated manison and surrounding area in which it was filmed.

The music: the score for this movie leans heavily on synthesizer to create numerous haunting blip-blip-blips and screechy animal sounds which are a perfect fit. For me, somewhat reminiscent of Euro-horror flicks from around the same time period (early 70's).

The outfits: Yes, Joan Van Ark's yellow one-piece must be seen to be believed (she resembles a bananna). And why is everyone wearing turtleneck sweaters in Florida during a July 4th birthday celebration? Ask the frogs, I guess.

(Parts of) The story: for me, the insinuation that the critters were exacting vengance for ecological wrong doing was underdeveloped and not a big part of the impact of the film. I was more interested in the quasi-racist undertones of Ray Milland's limited interactions with his black servants and his grandson's black girlfriend; "I wouldn't expect YOU to understand anyway", he sneers to her at one point, when she wisely suggests they split after the 2nd death. I also enjoyed the idea of an island of civilization (the plantation), lorded over by this crotchety (and wealthy) wheelchair-bound man, who is determined to preserve a facade of normalcy in the face of impending doom. The slow invasion of unruly (and dangerous) nature into his civilized world is a fascinating undercurrent that lasts throughout the entire movie until the final scene, which I found to be quite effective, if not a little overwrought, but what do you expect?

I think I see this movie through slightly different eyes, probably due to my early (and repeated) viewings, but if you enjoy early 70's quasi-horror which makes more use of things like atmosphere and music than extensive special effects or star-power (again, think Italian cinema from the same era with less blood), you may want to check it out.