My Fair Lady is a great musical and a marvelous movie to go and watch, in my opinion is not a good interpretation of G.B. Shaw's, Pygmalion. It is not strong as it could be. We can clearly appreciate that most of the script is followed. The characters in the musical are not as good as the ones play, this is because some of the character are rather weak in comparison to the play or in other words the perception you get about them when reading Pygmalion.

Eliza Doolittle, a beautiful, funny and smart flower girl is interpreted perfectly by Audrey Hepburn, who gets into the character and adds flavor to the musical, Mr. Higgins is also very well performed and I love the quality of expression and essence of Shaw's that the actor get to put on the play.  I found Colonel Pickering's character rather weak and quiet and Mr. Doolittle didn't fall in what I pictured, all of the other characters even the ones who were not suppose to, were joyful and add a soul of comedy and yet cynism to the play, although they didn't get to the cynism that Shaw skillfully gets to.

I think G.B. Shaw would be disappointed if he had seen this version of his so famous play; the musical barely represents the satire he in his book. The middle class morality and the hypocrisy there could be in the upper class are scarcely represented; thus musical is more a comedy in comparison to the play. I think Shaw would have found ridiculous and nonsensical that gentlemen such as: Mr. Higgins and Colonel Pickering sing in the play, and that the whole affair of singing the author would have considered it silly.

Although the script was followed some scenes were replaced, therefore we can say that the movie is not a loyal representation of the play. I think the reason for substituting some scenes is because they didn't fit into what the musical was, but it confuses me somewhat that characters like Clara don't appear in the play.

The setting of the musical was great, I think that it concurred with the original play, and the costumes were ideal for the characters. In conclusion I think My Fair Lady is a great movie to watch more than once, yet it does not transmit the essence of Mr. Shaw's original play.