I read this Stephen King novel with a great deal of interest. It's characters and story line so full of depth, I rushed to the movie theatre when this film was released, full of expectations. 
The novel, was written in three sections. Three seperate stories that all entwine. My main disappointment with the movie was that only the first section of the book was covered. When the film was over, I was left thirsting for the rest of the story. 
From what the film covers, Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), moves to a new town and finds residence in a two suite home. The occupants of the other suite are young Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin), and his bitter, domineering mother (Hope Davis). A friendship is formed between Bobby and Ted, when Ted offers to pay Bobby to read the newspaper to him, due to his failing eyesight. The real point of this "job" is for Bobby to keep on the lookout for "the lowmen" who are after Ted, due to his strange, yet facinating extra sensory powers. 
As wonderful an actor as Hopkins is, he failed to portray Ted for what he really is. Ted is extremely intelligent and well read, and Hopkins portrays this side of him beautifully. However, Ted is also what could be described as "white trash." I'm sorry, but you can put a cigarette in Hopkins mouth, and have him wear a wife beater undershirt, but he will still come across as far too classy for a character with Ted's background. Ted has brains, and he knows how to use them. He is also capable of exercising tact. However, classy is not a word that would or should be used to describe Ted. 
Bobby's mother (Hope Davis) in the book is so cruel and hot tempered, she can make the hairs on the back of your neck stand up. However, in the movie, although she is somewhat cruel and domineering, she never reaches the state she obtains in the book. While watching the film, I would see her temper flare, and I would patiently wait for her to get that certain flash in her eye and spit out the words that would make me cower in my seat...but it never happened. 
Bobby and his friend/love interest Carol (Mika Booren), are the only two characters who were able to achieve everything their characters were meant to be. Their friendship and affection for one another comes across as genuine, and for a moment you can forget that it is only a film. 
Overall, Hearts In Atlantis is a good movie, with a decent story and some heart clenching scenes, but it does seem to be desperately reaching for the quality held by the Green Mile. It strives for that quality, but falls a bit short. 
To all who are unfamiliar with the book, I would recommend this film. To all who have read the book, you will enjoy some aspects, but your expectations will not be met.