This is one debate that'll go on forever. Which James Bond film is the best? You have your Roger Moore followers and your Connery purists, so, who's right? Well, there is no final verdict, but here's my take.... From  Russia wih Love AND Goldfinger are the TWO best Bond movies. Choosing one  over the other is about as easy as splitting an atom with a hammer. Why,  you ask, are these two the epitome of the series? First, let me elaborate  on FRWL... The excellent Harry Palmer series with Michael Caine is known  for being the antithesis of Bond. FRWL is the only Bond film that is in  that same neighborhood of believabilty. It has the heaviest espionage  quotient and the best atmosphere in the entire series. Ian Fleming wrote  espionage stories centered around a spy named James Bond. This is an  excellent one. The plot is knotty but not incomprehensible. Bond stories  are (or should be) about espionage not redneck sheriffs or voodoo. FRWL is  a real FILM. By that I mean director Terrance Young &amp; Co. make  excellent use of the basics of the medium: dissolves, musical interplay,  voice-overs, creative editing; the entire mise-en-scene. In any good action  thriller, you have to feel that the hero is vulnerable and could die at any  moment. This raises our level of exitement and interest. Bond is extremely  vulnerable in FRWL. In the entire series, is there a more believable and  clever escape sequence than Bond tricking Grant into opening the briefcase?  Hmmm, well maybe the classic laser/crotch scene in Goldfinger. The best  escapes are the ones in which Bond uses his head as opposed to a gadget. My  only beef with the third film is the lack of a knotty plot and a ho-hum  middle third in Kentucky(!) (not exactly a locale worthy of a cold war  thriller). Because of all the pop culture spy-isms established by these two  films, Goldfinger and FRWL should be viewed (not to a kill) at one  sitting.
Some pop culture spy-isms: The super car, the hidden mastermind  stroking his cat, the secret enemy base/island, code-phrases, spy guitar,  the henchman, abbriviated organization names (SPECTRE), the gadgets, hero  in black stealthy outfit, suggestive names, bomb countdowns that take  forever to get to zero etc... The only thing missing from the Bond films  are E-type Jaguars. Oh well..you can't have everything.