Let's review how Tom killed Dickey. Dickey, is a rich playboy who made fun of Tom's boring character and denied any affection he ever felt toward him. Tom, a homosexual at the time when homosexuality was considered either a crime or a mental illness, became extremely distressed about derision and humiliation he experienced from a man he loved.

He would run away had they been on land, but where would he run from the boat?

 So like a bullied schoolboy, who had already underwent many humiliations before (let's remember how  Dickey humiliated Tom before multiple times) and who is pushed in a corner,  he reacted way too violently and disproportionately. He hit Dickey severely on the head. Then after he realized what he had done, he became very apologetic, tries to remedy the situation and bring Dickey to the land where he could receive medical attention. But no, Dickey like a  injured wild animal tries to push Tom out the boat where he can very well drawn. Let's remember that Dickey is as bit of a psychopath, if not more so than Tom, as he was sent to Europe by his father after he nearly killed someone in a fight.

So can we characterize the killing of Dickey as self-defense ? A competent lawyer would certainly press jurors with  it. And while Tom is the one who broke the fight, Dickey was the one who provoked it, thus had  Tom gave himself up to the police after killing Dikey he might had been convicted of a manslaughter rather than a murder. Of course once the "self-defense"  (psychological as well as physical self-defense) murder  is committed the subsequent two murders are graver in degree.

Those who saw film "Monster" can remember how the hooker murdered her first client in self-defense, while the subsequent clients were murdered for money, and one of the last victims was an elder man who picked her up to help her, rather than have sex with her,  but was killed when she got paranoid about him seeing that she has a gun.

Similarly, while Tom might had killed his first victim in self-defense, the second victim was killed to avoid being caught and preserve his money. He also tried to kill the Dickey's fianc&eacute; to avoid being caught but failed. And as it came, it wasn't even necessary for him to kill her since her insights about Tom being the murderer were dismissed as stress induced paranoia. Finally Toms kills a man who really cares about him, and it's not even necessary for him to kill him. In fact by killing him he risked being connected with yet another body or disappearance and arrested.

 Tom thus transformed through a steady progression from a harmless, adventurous impersonator into an irrational, murderous psychopath.