I've never been a big Winnie the Pooh fan. As a child who grew up in a household full of sic-fi nerds, the 1,000 Acre Woods really didn't hold any fascination for me. I was more interested in a future world where fully dressed apes spoke to each other and tortured humans the same way they had been.

Who wants to hang out with a bunch of bears, kangaroos, and rabbits in the woods when you could fly around space with Luke Skywalker battling stormtroopers and Darth Vader in a galaxy far, far away? I may not feel an emotional tie to Winnie the way many children and their parents do, but I can enjoy one of their adventures every once in a while.

Somebody loves the cuddly little yellow fella and his cute cast of merry friends. The critical and audience reception to last year's big-screen film "Winnie the Pooh" proved there is still interest in the honey-loving animal. That was obviously one of the motivations for Walt Disney Home Entertainment's release of "The Tigger Movie" on Blu-ray for the first time.

Tigger longs for a family of his own kind. He searches high and low for any members of his orange and black striped breed but can't seem to locate any. Can his friends help him find his direct relatives while teaching him the real definition of friends and family?

This movie has a message just like all Disney movies do. It concentrates on the importance of friends and shows viewers that your family isn't necessarily made up of people you're immediately connected to by blood. Families are made up of individuals who care for each other but don't share the same lineage.

The world of Winnie the Pooh is timeless. Obviously, that's part of the attraction to the stories and movies. Everyone wants to escape to a fantasy world like Christopher Robin. They want to hang out with their childhood toys and forget about all the cares of the world for a while.

The high-definition transfer of the movie serves the hand-drawn animation well. It brings out all the vibrant colors in the film. All the songs, dialogue, and background effects mix well together in an expansive 5.1 surround mix.

Bonus material for this will please consumers and their children. They include 10 "Mini-Adventures of Winnie the Pooh" shorts, "Round My Family Tree" Sing-Along Song, and Kenny Loggins' music video for "Your Heart Will Lead You Home." It also contains the interactive Disney Intermission and the featurette "A Tigger Tale."

The Blu-ray "Bounce - A - RRRific" Special Edition of "The Tigger Movie" is a great addition to the Disney library for fans of Winnie the Pooh. Even though it concentrates on the bouncy tiger, there's still plenty of the lovable bear in the movie to please enthusiasts. It's a wholesome movie that families can enjoy together over and over.