Rented this at the suggestion of a friend of mine (who's European and had pretty similar views on the film), and I wasn't disappointed. I also wasn't blown away.  Would have given it 3.5 stars if the rating system had let me, so I rounded up.  The plot has already been summarized enough, so I'll skip that and get to what I think didn't work in the movie and what did.  Suffice it to say, similar territory has been explored in other movies, the two obvious ones coming to mind being "Lord of the Flies" and "The Wave," a made for TV movie from the early 80's.  Both took an interesting look at people's tendencies to define (or even change) themselves in relation to the rules and expectations laid out (or removed) for them.
Character development in this movie seemed uneven.  We learn quite a bit about the main character (Bleibtreu), and some as well about his fellow prisoners.  Concerning the guards we learn very little, except their occupations and that some of them are fathers.  What might have been factors contributing to their behavior and the escalation that occurs?  This examination of how human character can go astray would have played out better if we understood something more about how the human character developed in a few more of the key roles.  It didn't seem realistic that the man who adapted to his "guard role" the most enthusiastically (and violently) was so meek and mild when his character is first introduced.  We might be able to buy off on the transformation had we a little more background on the guy (ex. he was abused as a kid, victim of a bully, dominant wife at home, etc).  And why would the head doctor, who so totally believes in this experiment, just take off for some business meeting.  He comes across like this experiment is the most important thing in his career/life, he has only 14 days to thoroughly study this case, and he decides to take off for business?  Puh-leeez. And what about Bleibtreu's girlfriend?  Say what?  Plot device is the only thing that comes to mind.  In a nutshell, the escalation of emotion and tension seemed artificial and to happen too quickly.  I've been through military training that puts people in similar roles (though not to this extreme), and I just had a hard time believing that everything could decay that rapidly with a bunch of average Joes (or "Kerle" as the Germans would say).
BUT, I still enjoyed the movie.  What could have been a REALLY good movie was just decent given the holes in the character development and a more "hollywood-ish" ending.  Pretty strong performances from a lot of people whose acting credits mostly consist of German television shows (Bleibtreu being the main exception).  I also expect this topic might resonate a little more in Germany, a nation that seems to sometimes struggle with the issues of personal role definition and citizen responsibility.  Can a good person who follows the rules still be good even when the rules are bad??
Addendum to my review:  since I wrote the above review, I've done some reseach on the '71 Stanford Prison Experiment (which the movie was based on), and I have to admit, the movie did give a more accurate interpretation of reality than I would have thought.  Minus the heavy violence and the deaths that occurred in the movie, a lot of the plot did closely follow what happened in the actual experiment.  Based on the newer info, I'd recommend the flick even more so.