Being a baby boomer growing up in the early 60s as a person of color, "Lackawanna Blues" is note perfect in capturing the sentiment of a time long gone. The most prophetic statement/assessment about those times comes near the end when Reuben Santiago, as a young man off to college, muses about the lost of a significant part of culture for people of color. It was the last time where one could experience the joys and tribulations of a cultured neighborhood. "For every door that integration opened, another door was closed on the symbiosis of a segregated neighborhood".
S. Epatha Merkerson more than earns her well deserved "Best Actress Emmy", in yet another sterling HBO made for television cinema. She radiates the warmth and grace that the character is based on. Quite simply, I see so much of my childhood in "Lackawanna Blues" though on the surface, one would wonder, how?. The "how" is again the touching snapshot of a peoples taking care of each other, supporting each other, learning and growing from each other. With "Momma's role"  being center stage, the viewer can not only see the importance of community that gathers, but, you can almost smell the delicious delicacies being cooked in the boarding house.
The young actor that played Reuben as a child is simply magical. (He gives another knockout performance in "I'm Not There" as one of the Dylan characters. Again, I see myself in his role especially in how the love he has for "Nanna or Momma", and how she eventually takes care of him, more as a maternal figure than his own, troubled biological mother. Terrence Howard is convincing as the 17 year old junior of Momma's heart. Macy Gray in a small, but, effective role is funny and endearing. These are just a few standout performances in a movie that is filled with them.
There was a house in our neighborhood that was just as transient with a wonderful array of personalities.
George C. Wolfe had recently demonstrated his indisputable talent as a stage director in the Public Theater production of "Radiant Baby", a musical about Keith Haring. He is equally adept in directing this wonderful, little gem of a movie.
HBO remains a cut above the competition with their well-made, exclusive movies.