When Katharine Hepburn utters the line "There's going to be a Christmas Court" you can see the wheels start grinding in her head.  She thanks Henry for letting her out of jail for the festivities.  Her children bicker and snipe at each other throughout the holiday.  Henry kisses his mistress  in front of his wife, and he can't decide which son should marry the mistress.  This is certainly not the first or last dysfunctional royal family, but it is the most witty and entertaining! Settle back and enjoy the carnage.  
Verbal duals.  Manipulation.  Treason.  Rebellion.  Possible execution.  Painful memories.  An evening in the dungeon.  Just an evening of fun and games with Henry, Eleanor and the boys.  Henry, an infamous womanizer and King of England, must decide which son should inherit his crown.  He's old and tired at 50.  Eleanor prefers professional soldier Richard; Henry wants the ineffectual John.  Caught in the middle is a third son, Geoffrey who asks "What's the nothing Geoffrey gets?"  Philip, King of France and brother to Henry's mistress Alys, arrives with an ultimatum -- the marriage of Alys to one of the Princes, or return of lands in France.  
Sparks fly in several scenes between O'Toole and Hepburn as they rehash past indiscretions.  Stellar performances by newcomers Timothy Dalton and Anthony Hopkins -- it was the film debut of both actors and they couldn't have done better.  Another favorite of mine for years,  John Castle -- young, incredibly handsome, understated -- plays Geoffrey as "all gears and wheels" pitting one prince against the other.  Nigel Terry, later King Arthur in "Excalibur" is John, the young king-in-training getting a fencing lesson from his father.  You'll have to see this film to see who almost wins the crown.  And you will never see so many blue eyes darting at each other as in the dungeon scene. 
Favorite lines abound -- you almost expect to hear a referee saying Point, Match Point, after each line.  The royal castle in 1183 includes chickens in the courtyard, livestock at the front door, and rough, almost monastic, fabric for the clothing.  Very few jewels and velvets worn by royalty in those days.
I love this film -- it will make you realize your own family isn't so bad after all.