One of those rare instances where a film not made for a mainstream audience became a commercial success. When it was released  at the end of the 60's, movies were enjoying a new freedom in language and subject matter with the creation of the MPAA rating (then only in its 2nd year). But what director Schlesinger brought to the table was a whole new way of telling a story. Much more European in its execution, but with cuts that were more rapid than had yet been seen.As the story opens and moves foward, it simultaneously moves backward to give us the lowdown on Joe Buck. Propelled, make that glided, by Nilsonn's "Everybody's Talkin'" in one of the most perfect meldings of song and cinema, makes you aware your in the hands of a master storyteller.With Voight's wide-eyed, but totally believable, innocence and Hoffman's cynically encrusted exterior, they bring indellible life to two men who are really brothers under the skin. With Hoffman you can almost smell his b.o. And dig the famous improv when they're walking down the NYC street (photographed by a hidden camera) and Hoffman momentarily breaks character when he's almost hit by a cab ("I'M WALKIN' HERE!") and recovers the bit so adroitly they left it in. While Hoffman has the showy part,Voight has the harder job. Without Voight's genuine innocence mixed with Buck's cluelessness the character couldn't come to life (and this was the problem with the novel). Repeated viewings will make you wonder just who is better. In he end it's a tie, and no wonder the Academy couldn't decide either and tossed the award over to John Wayne. To choose between either actor ultimately would have been a disservice to the other. Some great NY actors, whose faces were well known to audiences back then, do some of their best work here also. And kudos to John Barry's sparse, but unforgettable score. The great composer gives a large chunk of the film's music to some budding songwriters. Originally rated X, this was an X rating the way the MPAA originally intended it(i.e. for Adults Only). Once the porno industry co-opted the rating, the X took on an entirely different and unintended meaning, and thereafter all studios shied away from the dreaded X. (Newspapers would not accept ads and television spots were verboten)."Midnight Cowboy" did get snipped on the re-release for an R rating (as did "A Clockwork Orange") and that's how both films are seen today. But these cuts are minor. The film still stands as one of the most emotionally powerful films about friendship, love and the survival of the human soul.