Many cinema fans know of or have heard of the "Legend of Heaven's Gate"; huge flop, out of control director, bankrupted the studio, etc...  If you are interested enough in the movie to consider buying the DVD, then you are prepared to look past the legend and get to the real story.

  "Heaven's Gate" is the labor of love of Michael Cimino.  Fresh from his award winning efforts on "The Deer Hunter", Cimino looked to bring to life the events surrounding the little known but fascinating Johnson County Wyoming range war in 1890-91.  Many of the circumstances that sparked the range war in the late 19th century were relevant in the late 20th century (and more so today); the friction between residents and the ever increasing flow of immigrants, concentration of wealth among a small powerful group of elite ranchers, their efforts to squeeze out small ranch operations and independent immigrant families, and the conflict felt by those in the middle who had ties to both sides.

  Kris Kristofferson plays Jim Averill, a man who came from a wealthy east coast family, went to Harvard, and was expected to do great things.  Upon hearing the message of the good doctor (Joseph Cotten) at his graduation ceremony, telling his class that they should go out and enrich society with their wealth and prestige, Averill decides to go out west and make his mark among the citizens of the rough frontier.  Upon arriving in Wyoming, Averill joins the Cattlemen's Association as does his fraternity brother from Harvard,Billy Irvine (John Hurt).  Once he becomes a member of this august group, Averill discovers it is nothing more than a gathering of rich elitists from the east bent on cornering the beef market in the west and stamping out those who stand in their way.  Frustrated with their attitudes, he leaves acrimoniously while Billy continues upon the course he began in college, drinking himself irrelevant.

  Averill decides to use what influence he has for good purposes and becomes the sherriff of Johnson County, keeping peace in a land becoming filled with newcomers and the residents who resent their intrusion.  While in office he becomes involved with the town madam Ella(Isabelle Huppert) who happens to count the Cattlemen's enforcer, Nate Champion (Christopher Walken) among her clients.  Averill understands Champion's position and the two are friendly until the Association takes the drastic step of branding the immigrants "anarchists" and declaring war on them for cattle theivery.  Averill has tried to hold the line and keep the Association from flexing their considerable muscle in his county, but this move unleashes the force of the Association (physical and political) culminating in a pitched battle between the two sides.  Averill leads the immigrants in a spirited defense against the Association and their army of hired guns.  In the end, this "rich man's army" is saved from defeat by the U.S. Army and the immigrants are left to bury their dead and wonder what happens next.

  After witnessing the carnage, Averill and Ella pack their belongings to start anew further west when they are ambushed by members of the Association, angry at their efforts to organize the immigrants against them.  Ella is killed and Averill realizes the futility of fighting the system when he has nothing left to fight for.  He returns to the east, marries the girl he was meant to end up with, and spends his twilight years (symbolically) drifting on a yacht in Newport harbor Rhode Island wondering what might have been and trying to live with what he has experienced.

  While there are some uneven patches in the film, it is an engrossing story that is wonderfully shot.  The cinematography is excellent and the locations are stunning.  The soundtrack is a great mix of European, early American, and folk that evokes the time and melting pot feel of the area.  (the cd is out of print, but worth tracking down.  It is available used through Amazon.)  I recommend this film to anyone who enjoys sweeping, epic pictures and also to anyone who has an interest in this period of American history.  The themes in this film resonate to this day; should wealth be horded by a privileged few? what are the consequences of the influence wealthy, powerful men hold over our elected officials?  who will stand up for those who are less fortunate in our society?  does power, money and influence equal right?  Finally, in addition to the actors I have mentioned, this film also stars Sam Waterston, Jeff Bridges, and Mickey Rourke (in a bit part). To those who are interested enough to want to read the true story about the Johnson County War, I recommend the "Powder River War" by Helena Huntington Smith.