The prolific Edward L. Cahn's "Invisible Invaders" was released a few months before Ed Wood's infamous "Plan 9 From Outer Space" and in many ways is similar to it, right down to its Cold War anti-nuclear message.  Physicist Adam Penner (Philip Tonge, featured in "House of Wax" and "Macabre") objects to the arms race.  Sound familiar?  When his colleague Karol Noymann (John Carradine, here in basically a cameo appearance) is killed in a nuclear accident, he resigns from the federal "Atom Commission."  After Noymann's funeral, an invisible emissary from an interplanetary dictatorship with a long-standing base on earth's moon reanimates the scientist's body and issues Penner an ultimatum: now that it is about to enter the Space Age, earth must surrender or be destroyed.  Penner's assistant John Lamont (Robert Hutton, fresh from his role in "The Colossus of New York") dutifully takes the message to the commission's heads in Washington, but is not taken seriously.  The invisible invaders proceed to enter the bodies of the recently dead and use them to commit "sabotage" all over the world.  The Air Force sends Major Bruce Jay (John Agar, who'd just done a fine job in Nathan Hertz's campy "Brain From Planet Arous" but who spends the second half of this movie doing an uninspired John Wayne imitation) to transport Dr. Penner, his daughter (Jean Byron, who would go on to play Patty Duke's mother on TV), and Dr. Lamont to a secluded bunker where they develop a weapon that eventually defeats the invaders.  Screenwriter Samuel Newman, who would go on to craft suspenseful teleplays for "Perry Mason" and "The Wild, Wild West," here borrows a few plot elements from Fred F. Sears' 1956 film "Earth vs. the Flying Saucers."  Director Cahn was an old hand at directing zombies, with "Creature with the Atom Brain" and "The Zombies of Mora Tau" under his belt by this time.  Special effects artist Roger George did a competent job on this his first feature film.  Paul Dunlap's score, with its military marches offset by eerie extraterrestrial interludes, later turned up in "The Angry Red Planet."  Though "Invisible Invaders" was obviously a rushed and at times careless production - Cahn helmed a total of seven films in 1959 alone, and even more than that the following year - the film's influence on George Romero's "Night of the Living Dead" is unmistakable.  
"Journey to the Seventh Planet" is basically a remake of producer Sid Pink's earlier science fiction effort "The Angry Red Planet," which is itself a quirky and inventive reworking of "The Wizard of Oz."  Filmed in Denmark in 1961, this film opens in the year 2001, when the earth has abolished war and is governed by the United Nations.  Talk about optimism!  When no life is discovered on the first six planets orbiting the sun, an international team of five astronauts is dispatched to the planet Uranus to investigate an unusual form of radiation emanating from it.  Expecting to find a forbidding, icy landscape, the astronauts are astonished to find evergreen trees and running streams on its surface.  Not long after a whole village the ship's captain recalls from his youth materializes in the distance, complete with women each member of the ship's crew knew and loved on earth, the five begin to suspect their memories are being tapped and used to create convincing illusions.  Eventually they penetrate the barrier that seals the forest off from the rest of the planet, and discover that a giant alien brain is manipulating their thoughts and hopes to dominate earth.  Enlisting the help of the women the brain has created for them, all but one of the men manage to break free of its control and escape, though presumably without destroying the brain completely.  (Someone has to sing, "I wait for you... somewhere on the seventh planet" as the rocketship speeds away.)  Except for John Agar, who had just completed "Hand of Death," and Greta Thyssen, who had recently appeared in "Terror Is a Man" (available on DVD as "Blood Creature"), most of the cast had appeared in director Sid Pink's "Reptilicus."  Fans of the film will be happy to know that the new DVD version contains the original song sung over the end credits by Otto Brandenburg, who's almost (but not quite) worthy of Tony Bennett.  Although the special effects, many of which were trimmed or reshot by American International after the film wrapped in Denmark, are primitive by today's standards, the film's comic book colors and hypnotic visual inserts give much of the film an almost psychedelic look that's definitely worth checking out today.