Every single person needs to watch this documentary. I don't care if you never eat fast food. It's still a must-see.

It's an incredible documentary that explores the dangers of fast food and how disgustingly unhealthy it is for you.

It also shows the corruption of big companies like McDonald's and other fast food chains. They KNOW that their food is making America the fattest nation in the world, yet the choose not to do anything about their hazardous food.

What's more, they specifically market to little children so that the kids are hooked for life.

Now I'm not saying they force us to eat their food. Obviously everyone has the choice to abstain, but most people don't. McDonald's capitalizes on this and profits from the skyrocketing obesity rates of our country.

They only want your money, and don't care if you eat yourself to death.

In fact, that is what they'd prefer; buy so much of their food that it makes them richer.

Seriously, if you get the chance you should rent or buy 'Supersize Me'. The guy eats 3 McDonalds meals per day for 30 days, and the results are alarming as they outline the long-term effects of people eating it just 2 or 3 times a week.

It adds up, folks. Do your research, starting with this film.

It's a funny documentary at times, serious when he's confronted by his doctors, and thought-provoking all around.

The only thing that upset me a little is an offensive picture of a mockery of The Last Supper. On the eve of his 30 day Mcdiet, he eats some healthy food prepared by his vegetarian girlfriend. The picture before that scene is... quite rude. Enough to offend those who believe as I do.

Oh yeah, apparently eating too much McDonalds kills your libido and performance as well. His girlfriend went into a little too much detail and for some reason they felt the need to include it here.

But other than that I was blown away by its quality. Morgan Spurlock does an excellent job of asking the right questions and getting the answers that aren't all that pretty.

The love of money is the root of all evil. I'll tell you what's evil: capitalizing on the poor eating habits of Americans so that they get fatter and fatter while people starve to death in other countries.

People are still accountable for the things they eat, and are just as guilty for not caring about the bodies that God gave them. This doesn't lessen the guilt of chains like McD's, though.

Obesity is set to overtake smoking as the number 1 preventable cause of death. The rest of the world already hates us, and soon we will be the laughing stock of the entire planet as we eat ourselves to death.