End of Evangelion was an interesting end to the series but I have to admit it left me with a very hollow feeling. The series as a whole had the same impact/ effect. It started off very, very, strong, one of the best anime series I've seen in fact. But, about midway through it started to unravel and devolve into a whiny teenager that cries and moans for the entire rest of the series.
While most of the characters show personality and growth as people throughout the series, the main character (Shinji) continues his pervasive whining and crying up to the bitter end while showing no development other than to be very, very, annoying to the point where I don't care about his mental state or what he feels, I just want him to shut up, stop whining/crying (whatever he's doing during that particular episode/scene), or do *anything* but complain and mope.
The antithesis of the "plot" - and I use that word very loosely - is that Shinji not only can't recognize that the people in his life care for him, but he rejects them constantly while at the same time screaming that no one cares for him. Tragic? I suppose, but the fact that nothing about him - his personality, his thought process, etc... - changes from episode one to the final scene in this movie really is really telling. So in the end when he has to choose between saving the world and destroying it, he opts for the latter due to the fact that he can't cope with human emotions. What really dropped the enjoyment factor of this movie is that throughout the whole of it Shinji, save the final few scenes, was either crying, screaming, whining, or acting totally comatose while destruction was raining down around him and the rest of the characters (whom were all subsequently killed) were trying to do something or fighting through their issues and problems and growing/ evolving as people.
At the end there's some answers... more if you look at the imagery, remember back to some instances in the series, and think about the theology and the symbolism, but when it's all said and done, the movie did little more then to kill off all of the characters that actually did grow and evolve as people during the series and reveal Shinji as an emotionally stunted and perverted character that was left to determine the fate of the entire race.