There is a long thick line drawn between people who "get" this movie and people who don't. The latter category can include both people who enthuse the violence and people who condemn it; people who don't see the satirical undertones and people who think the film is some sort of pinko plot (whether or not they think that would be a good idea). There's also a small minority of Heinlein fans who are furious that the book has been _adapted_ by the writer and director, rather than faithfully shot page for page.
The intelligent viewer will realise that things are rarely black or white: violence is awful, but pretend violence can be dramatically gripping or even funny (and this is nothing new). War is terrible, but the courage and loyalty it can summon are admirable. A war under false pretences is shameful, but once you're in it, you'd better win it. (Sound familiar?) Mindless patriotism is bad, but no state, no matter how civilised or postmodern, can survive without a vigorously maintained army. Citizens have an obligation to the state, but does the state invalidate itself by forcing the citizens to comply? 
These are the ambiguities that Starship Troopers encompasses in its satire. Unfortunately, ambiguity doesn't play well in this day and age (if it ever did), so in a sense this film was doomed to fail before it was even shot.
Fortunately the DVD release includes a director's commentary in which Paul Verhoeven explains it for us one more time and spells it simple: If the plot seems goofy or over-the-top, it's because they based the movie on WWII propaganda films - from the Axis as well as the Allies. The philosophy that underpins the film is "War makes fascists of us all." 
As the cherry on top of this moral message, Starship Troopers delivers pure adventurous fun: huge spaceships exploding, a sappy love-triangle, heroic fights with giant bugs, and Michael Ironside, as cool as ever. The effects are great, the ending is satisfying, and the fake propaganda ads are very funny. The score by Basil Polidouris is also terrific, (although the CD is only 35 min. long) and would even make a great symphony.
So it's a win-win movie: you can enjoy a big dumb action spectacular with great special effects, or you can get all intellectual with the satirical sub-text about the human sacrifices that patriotism requires. Either way, this is one of the great science fiction movies, both visually and in terms of ideas. I highly recommend it.
(By the way, I'd recommend listening to the director's/writer's commentary even to people who don't like this kind of film - it's the best DVD commentary I've ever heard: very informative and funny, with Verhoeven coming across as a slightly mad, European intellectual-type character.)