As a general fan of music, I listen to all genres and virtually anything between Beethoven and Modest Mouse.  I even enjoy the music and songwriting of a few key bands from the 80s, 90s, and new millenium.  However, musical talent and live singing abilities of many new bands leave a bit to be desired without the advancing technology of studios and computers to fine-tune and over-produce the sound to something the artist is incapable of without electronic help.

When older bands such as Fleetwood Mac or the Eagles decide to reunite, as evidenced on DVD/CD releases like The Dance or Hell Freezes Over, the raw live talent both vocally and instrumentally, together with the superbly crafted melodies and brilliant songwriting, flat-out embarrass most current bands.

In The Dance, the superb harmony of the band shows the incredible inate talent and skill each possesses even as they age and their voices fall off a bit.  Mick Fleetwood and John McVie lay down the most superb and perfectly timed rythm for each song as a tempo for the others to feel and match.  Christine McVie shows excellent timing and tune with her keyboard, adding depth to each track and supplying the necessary third to the voices of Lindsay and Stevie...each of these singers has a completely different vocal pattern and style, and on their own can be liked or disliked, but together they create an unmatched singular vocal tone which balances the imperfections of each voice into a perfect unity.  Stevie Nicks still provides the necessary and unique rasp and power from her voice which made Fleetwood Mac stand out from other female-vocal bands, and whether she can still achieve the ultimate top of her former vocal range is irrelevant as she still knows how to keep it perfectly in tone, range, and synch with the instrumentation and vocals of her bandmates (something today's blonde pop creations can't do even with all of today's electronic assistance).

And then there is Lindsay Buckingham.  A voice that on its own may not find favor with all - a fast vibrato and a high nasally tone...but in tandem with Stevie's deeper raspy resonance and Christine's soothing melodic syrup of a voice, his voice becomes a perfect match.  His songwriting for Fleetwood Mac is brilliant and poignant, and his passion and effort in his performance is inspiring and powerful.  But his guitar skill, his utter genious with the device, is beyond any description - and sends shivers down the spine and tears from the eyes of any guitar player or wannabe.  Whether his guitar skill inspires one to want to play like him one day, or forces one to sell the guitar and give up knowing you'll never even stand at the foot of the altar upon which he stands...is up to the listener.  But the acoustic performance on Big Love and Go Insane (10-finger playing in a Spanish classical style and a blues / rock rythm and pace, simultaneously laying down a complex multi-part rythm with 1/2 of each hand and playing the lead guitar with the other halves!), and the superb electric solo jam on I'm So Afraid, would merit a standing ovation even in an audience of every guitar god and virtuoso ever to play music.

This DVD is highly recommended, for fans and newbies alike...and a must-have for instrumentalists and other bands seeking a lesson in rock-band-musicianship 101.