I saw this at the theatres when it came out and was enthralled by it. I saw it multiple times, although that was partially because I was studying in Jordan at the time and in Jordan I would watch American movies just to get a break from my Arabic immersion program (I think I watched more movies that year than I have in the last ten). Nevertheless, the fact that I was abroad made the international setting of it seem more exiting. At that time I had never been to Russia.

I think I watched it once on tape after that, after having lived in Russia (in 1999), and I realized then how much Russians would hate this movie. I've now just recently watched it again for the first time in probably eight years, and of course I've spent a lot of time developing my thinking on international affairs during that span.

Now watch this again to see what was wrong with how Americans viewed Russia in the 1990s. Like Sean Connery's "The Rising Sun" on Japan in the early 1990s, this movie reflects how Americans viewed Russia during that time. Not that it was necessarily inaccurate. The speech given by the character of Ivan Tretiak certainly captures how many Russians feel. And Russia did have a kind of hapless reformist president at that time.

The key is the closing scenes in which an American has to tell the hapless Russian president what he should do, and then when another American works some magic behind the scenses, Russians enthusiastically fall for him. This is precisely how the U.S. foreign policy establishment treated Russia during that time. Why it was not clear that Russians would resent this, I don't know.

As far as the movie itself is concerned, I still enjoy the build-up even though the ending is dumb. And I think this is the only movie Val Kilmer ever successfully carried. He has been in other great movies (Heat, Ghost in the Darkness), but he's never led another that I'd consider watching twice. And of course there is Elisabeth Shue, and very briefly, Emily Mortimer in a short but memorable role.