Mayhem lurks amongst scary chintz and the bucolic English countryside. Midsomer is a perilous place, unrivaled in its menace. Yet its citizens keep being replenished, somehow there is never a shortage of potential maniacs and victims. To repeat, Barnaby, we hardly knew ye. These are the Full Monty, as never seen on American television. Seeing the real thing, my addled wife can't stop calling you Barnabas, as we've watched so much "Dark Shadows." Or perhaps it's your added swagger and dark wit. These disks reveal a Midsomer we never viewed before. When aired here, they were abbreviated to accommodate room for commercials. Now, we get the uncut, well-seasoned bangers & mash of Barnaby's acerbic personality, English slang from Troy, and complete plot lines; no narrative is missing. What a treat! We finally understand why this series is such an international hit of great duration. The only clunker is "Destroying Angel," with too many puppets and (even for Midsomer) unlikely events, and a lack of humor between our favorite coppers. We relate to Barnaby's disdain for the insufferable clothing-clerk, preferring the excellent Marks 'n Sparks too (decade-old slacks from there still look good).

Beware especially the residents of Badger's Drift, rife with hidden agendas, and well upholstered, over-chintzed women bearing tea. Settle down for a virtual escape to a bucolic English countryside strewn with mayhem. This long haul is best accompanied by plenty of goodies, as Midsomer delights in torturing its susceptible audience by lingering on tea-trays laden with countless delicacies, and scrumptious looking roasts with taters 'n gravy, sausages, pudding, well, you get the picture.

A note on the fine packaging: I'd been worried about ordering this repackaging of the first four boxed sets, due to vociferous complaints by several reviewers here. They led me to believe that the packaging consisted of cardboard envelopes for the disks or worse, like "Avatar." Don't worry. The packaging is good, consisting of multiple plastic holders for the disks within a box. This common storage for longer series works just fine; no problem whatsoever.

You'd likely also like the excellent <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0050N0US4">Vera</a>, set in Northumbria, masterfully played by Brenda Blethyn, of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CXMY">Saving Grace</a>.