Wow, some heated debate over this movie; and that's a good thing! I think the 2010 remake of the sacred 1984 masterpiece should stir up some controversy!

To me the only sensible argument against this movie is that it could have been much more imaginative in terms of dreamworld spooks. In terms of kills and chills the remake hardly brings anything to the table which did not or could not have appeared in the 80s. Some haters are arguing that the remake is nothing but eye candy for modern audiences with ADD - I couldn't disagree more! Remake director Bayer seems to have made a point of NOT making this an eye candy action flick covered in CG goo.

Ironically, the same haters also tend to argue that the remake was "boring" (Ok, so who has ADD now?) Again, I think the reason why the remake may seem boring to today's audiences (including members of the audience who grew up in the 80s) is that Bayer really avoided making this an xtreme gore fest/action flick like many recent horror releases.

Instead, Bayer aimed at making a spooky, creepy, and rather subtle film, whose horror resides mostly in gradual revelation of suspense and sudden taunting flashes of horror, much as the original did. The movie is indeed relatively slow paced; the actors seem to wonder about and purposely seem tired because they haven't slept in days; the music is slow and quiet ... there's something strangely hypnotic about it all, and some people may interpret this as "boring", but I think Bayer did this very purposely in a movie that is, after all, about sleep and sleep deprivation. He sucks you into the dream world.

Everyone has a right to their opinion regarding the new Krueger. Personally, I thought he was the genius of the film. And the new pedophilia theme is incredibly dark and well done. In this sense, it's better than the original IMO.

The movie's not perfect. It has some badly executed scenes. Yet it also has it's truly haunting moments (i especially love the "cave" and the last battle), and there's nothing in it that's downright idiotic, as in all the corny sequels. I think as time passes history will judge this remake as the most interesting and successful installment in the Nightmares since the original.