Spider-Man 2 was amazing in so many ways- actors, costumes, action sequences, music, props, sets, etc.  This sequel is one of the few that I can truthfully say is either equal to or better than the first.
The actors are incredible- Tobey Maguire plays a very believable Peter Parker/Spider-Man- he is a young man who is trying to do the right thing, but is torn between the people and things he loves, and doing what is right and just.  He is also kind of a dork, but in the nice sense- it would have been easy for Sam Raimi to turn Peter Parker into a geek who overnight becomes this indestructible superhero perfect guy, but he doesn't- he keeps him human; Peter's character is believable, because he is both a superhero and a struggling person.
I also found it very moving when Peter was struggling to do the right thing- aren't we all?  He knows his life is falling apart- his jobs, college, and the people he loves- Aunt May, Harry and MJ, all because he is willing to help as many people as he can- people he doesn't even know.  We see a scene that is in stark contrast to the superhero that is Spider-Man- (IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE, DON'T READ) Peter sees two guys beating up on a guy for his money, and Peter sees this- but astonishingly, turns around and walks away.  I have been to see Spider-Man 2 twice, in different theatres, and in both of them, when Peter walked away, I could hear small gasps and murmurs from the audience.  This scene was poignant to me for two reasons: we have already seen that Peter has made up his mind, but we also see the internal struggle- it takes him a while to make his decision to leave- and know that Peter is not sure if he made the right decision.  Secondly, I pictured Peter in the Spidey costume doing the same thing- walking away.  That was a difficult thing for me to picture- Spider-Man waking away from someone who needed help.
The music in this movie was great, and the music for each scene was well-composed and selected.  The special effects were absolutely brilliant!  I'm glad I can still say that the scenes where we see Spider-Man swinging through NYC are still realistic.  
The theme behind Spider-Man 2 was an extension of the theme from the first- "With great power comes great responsibility."  Peter has been given these awesome powers, but now faces a dilemma- he has to be willing to give up so much- his lifelong dream of telling Mary Jane how much he loves her, his friendship with Harry Osborn, not to mention his college studies and jobs to pay the rent.  So, he decides to give up being Spider-Man, and is happy for a while, but we soon see that he needs to be Spider-Man again.  Like it or not, he has a responsibility to the people of New York City, and the people of NYC have a need for a hero, and we see this in several moving ways.
The rhetoric of Norman Osborn as the Green Goblin in the first movie is trumped by the wise words of Aunt May- the people need a hero- a true hero; a hero that is a hero 24/7, not just when the going's easy- but when its the hardest, and when is faced with the choice of taking the easy, comfortable, and happy way out or the hard, difficult and painful road, chooses the hard road, certainly not because it is easy, but because it is the right thing to do, not caring how hard it is.
This movie speaks to all of us- we each have talents, and we should use those talents for good (for the good of all mankind, as Dr. Octavius spoke of intelligence), and choose to do what is right, even if is hard to do.
This movie is the perfect combination of what I think is a must-see hit: good morals- choosing to do good over the comforts of life, great actors, believable characters, moving music, awesome special effects, good jokes, incredibly cool costumes and a great storyline.  If you haven't seen it, go see it now while it's still in theaters, and if you've already seen it, take friends or family to see it- either way, see it again!  (And if you think that this movie stinks, then I feel incredibly sorry for you, cause you're really missing out)  I like what the Amazon review said- and though it ends on an ominous note, I'll end on a positive one- this sets the bar incredibly high for Spider-Man 3- but I believe the Spider-Man team is up to the challenge, and I look forward to seeing Spider-Man 2 again, and Spider-Man 3 in the future.
Go Spidey!