Although called a documentary, this movie was in fact an animated film centered on recalling the repressed recollections of a lone Israeli soldier who had provided the eyes and ears for the Phalangist Christian soldiers who carried out the infamous massacre at Sabra and Shatila camps in Lebanon in 1982. The film is one man's "coming to grips" with his repressed memories, and the guilt that he had tucked away of those events in his subconscious for more than twenty years.

For me, not crazy about the new trend in "adult animations," this, a serious animated film, sounded like an artistic oxymoron. I was, to say the least, very ambivalent about going to see a serious "adult animated film." I felt pretty sure it would be the wrong vehicle to convey a seriously introspective message, especially one as morally complex and challenging as the events that occurred in Lebanon. My "going in" premise was that this approach sat best would be a kind of "limited hangout," or partial revelation via fantasy of unspeakable crimes that could not be confronted otherwise, and thus as a way of shielding the author from the ultimate confrontation with the terrible truths he had avoided for twenty years and now reluctantly, and step-by-step, was forced to acknowledge, and then comes to grips with.

However, after seeing the movie, the currency of "adult animation" went way up in my mind. Quite frankly it has won me over as an exciting new genre. Waltz with Bashir proved to be a first class artistic triumph, as a surprisingly robust and multidimensional form of introspective analysis. It was not quite fantasy, and yet not quite typical "movie reality" either. Throughout the movie, I had the feeling of being in the same "mental halfway house" that Bashir found himself in: in a half-dreamlike state with monsters and ogres and such; and, in a suspended state of gradual revelations of all the things behind Bashir's mental shield.

Since his memory seemed to fail him, Bashir's dreams of beaches filled with corpses and wailing piles of victims, grotesque visions and flashbacks of barking dogs, etc -- had to be validated through interviews with his former "band of brothers." who recited bit-by-painful-bit unmentionable horrors and atrocities they had all committed together. Taken together, this tableau of dreams, interviews, and recalled memories, used animation well as the vehicle that lighted the passageway back from Bahir's repressed memories to a gradual confrontation with an unpleasant and shameful past reality, and of his role in the massacre of hundreds of mostly old men, women and children.

I am forced to admit that in this instance anyway, animation functioned well in the "no man's land" between reality (i.e. admissions of guilt) and the repressed subconscious (pretending not to know what he had done).
I left the theater understanding and empathizing with Bashir, wondering whether or not a "real" movie could have captured so accurately the "mental no man's land" that animation had captured so well. Joseph Campell and Carl Jung would have been proud of this incredible dreamlike but mythical production.

Five Stars