I don't care what any of you think.  E.T. is the best movie ever made. It's my persona; fave, too. I agree with some that if it didn't have the music in it, it wouldn't be as good.  I have seen this movie near or over 50 times. I am 14 now and I have watched it more than any kid probably ever has in his/her life.  I am not gonna say I have watched it more than anyone else in the world.  I am just saying that I love this movie! It gets better each time.  Here are a few things I noticed in the 20th anniversary:
When he is chasing his ship, there are brand-new scenery shots (magnificently beautiful, I might add).
E.T. gets a bath.
A few of the swear words...were dimmed out when pronounced.
In the original movie Elliott's costume was pulled down straight in the "flying scene" but in this version (and on the old video boxes) his cape is fluttering out behind him.
A small Halloween addition where Elliot and his sibling's mom is looking for them, and Gertie blurts out some funny dialogue.
And the #1 hated scene, the digitally added walkie-talkies.
Most noticable out of everything is the picture.  The colors are beautiful and the sound (I love Dolby Digital and Dolby Digital Surround EX) [I would love to hear DTS but I have no DTS decoder :(
I have loved this movie since my aunt bought this movie for me years before she died.  This was the best thing she ever gave to me.  Since then, it is untraceable.  I have rented this movie out about 5 times at Video Vault (now Movie Gallery) and a lot more at the public library.  I finally got my friend to beg his mom to let me borrow this film.  I could watch any version I wanted.  I like the 20th Anniversary better because of the remastered sound and the restored footage/picture.
I leave you, the audience, with one question: does anyone know where I can find a good DTS decoder but I don't have to spend an arm-and-a-leg on it?  I hate the sound on my computer (cuz I have just 2 computer speakers) and I have a stereo that releases good sound.  I just need a good DTS decoder.  If you can help me, please help me!