The following review is a copy of a PM I sent to a friend asking me for my opinion of the film. His first question was "Is Galactus in the movie?"

WARNING !!!! Major Spoilers Ahead !!!

To an unashamed Silver Surfer fan like myself, NO, Galactus was not in the film. At the end they showed this huge dark cloud about to engulf the planet and devour it. To me, this was not Galactus but his Elemental Converter, which he uses to destroy the planet and inhale the energy. This is what the Surfer actually destroys at the end of the movie, NOT Galactus. Any Marvel fan KNOWS that Galactus cannot and MUST NOT be destroyed.

However, if you are not a comics fan and you're sitting there watching this, you have to assume that the cloud is Galactus (because the Surfer says "He is here") and that at the end the Surfer destroys both Galactus and himself ("This is the end... for both of us!") with a huge burst of Cosmic energy (which happens to spare the planet. Doh!)

Right after the end credits begin to roll you can see the Surfer floating in space, separated from his board. A promise of things to come?

 Also, it is NOT Alicia Masters who turns the Surfer to the side of Earth but Susan Storm. A minor quibble.

But the worse thing they did was give the Silver Surfer an Achilles Heel. Hollywood just had to mess that up. Courtesy of Dr Doom, they figure out that if you separate the Surfer from his board then he loses his power!!! What?!?!? This was a major foul up.

Speaking of Doom, there was way too much of him in this film because they tried to meld two different Silver Surfer stories together and in doing so they removed too much of what made the original story so cool.

This movie could have been so much better if they had just stuck to the facts. The effects are there. The Silver Surfer is WAY cool! His first meeting with Johnny Storm is fantastic to watch. His power is just as awesome as in the comics. There just wasn't enough of him because of his supposed "weakness."

But there was too much time wasted on the wedding of Reed Richards and Susan Storm, only to have it not happen.

 Too much time wasted on the supposed personal growth of Susan Storm only to have her brush it all aside in the end in the name of "saving the planet," as if she has a choice.

  Too much character building on the part of Johnny Storm, only to tear it all down in the end on a single frame of film... just to get a laugh!!! Why?!?

If you're gonna build up to something then let's see the payoff! Don't brush it aside for a cheap laugh or for a moment of "patriotism" or whatever it was Susan discovered in the end.

Sad.

3 stars for the Silver Surfer alone. He was Awesome !!!!!