I have not seen this movie in many years.  Therefore, my commentary is based on a somewhat hazy recollection about a movie that would merit a few class discussions in a college-level film course.  The movie begins, ironically, with a helicopter toting a statue of Christ above Rome, I suppose not too far from Vatican City. The helicopter scene is in contrast to the decadence and hypocricy with which the protagonist, a tabloid reporter played by Mastroianni, in time realizes he must struggle.  Casting Anita Ekberg as an emblem of what is decadent and almost sordid was an intelligent decision by Fellini.

In due course, the protagonist comes to understand that he exists (does not really live) in a world of no values.  The Ekberg character is an object of fan worship, and ultimately, emptiness.  She is a mere idol.  In time, the Mastroianni character meets a very young woman waitress who serves him.  He seems to see in her a decency that is foreign to the world he inhabits, a world of popularity, materialism, the jet set, and parties.  At the end of the movie, he is on the beach and again sees the young woman in the distance,  I believe with her family if my memory is correct. I view the ending as one of hope, because the Mastroianni character fully realizes that the beauty and appreciation of life is in innocense and decency rather than debauchery, materialism and empty self-gratification.  There is hope for this individual.

The film's message is still timely.  In the 1980s, the public was treated to "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous," which attempted to engender envy about the lives of entertainment idols who could afford the best food and retreat to Carribean resorts costing thousands of dollars per night.  In more recent times, there are the reality shows on TV in which in one of the shows three sisters crave what is material and empty and spend much of their time projecting dissatisfaction and jealousy.  In another, three young women lived with a magazine magnate in a world of self-indulgence, displaying themselves physically to garner adulation and a life of parties and childish fun.  The pity is in the inability to recognize what constitutes valid self-worth.  I mention these parallels because La Dolce Vita delivers a message that is, most unfortunately, being ignored.

I'd recommend this movie to anyone as a reminder of the need, especially at the present time,  for a moral compass. A viewing of this film might just serve as an effective reminder, for anyone who thinks, that the current culture has not progressed  from 1961 when this was released.  This is a movie with a thoughtful aspect.