"Bewitched" was a classic TV series for its first four seasons (and bits of seasons five, six and seven are worth watching--but avoid season eight!), spinning out family-oriented humor which nonetheless directly explored issues involving marriage, feminism and even the counterculture (represented by Samantha's magical world, which had much in common with the emerging folk/hippie movement, versus the straight proto-yuppie world Darrin and Larry come from).  The characters were always colorful, the plots largely original (at least, up until season five or so) and Elizabeth Montgomery was absolutely stunning as Samantha, while Agnes Moorehead was regal as Endora.

The first season was a delightful introduction to this world, and is now available in color or B&W versions (purists prefer the B&W version, of course, although it is definitely worth it to see the episodes in color).  It was slightly more dramatic in tone than later years; with season two the comedy element took over in a big way and to these eyes was the peak of the series, with many memorable episodes and characters (it is also available in both formats, and again, I prefer it in color, as the magical 60s world of "Bewitched" always seemed to me more suited for color).

Season three continued the roll established in the first few years, this time fully in color.  The pace quickened even more from the second season and the focus was on Tabitha's newly acquired "wishcraft" powers; Endora also now seemed to be bugging Darrin bigtime every week although this had not become tiresome yet, and Darrin was still a semi-likeable, human character and not yet a caricature of a dominating, mindless ad-exec bore.  Serena, introduced in season two, is missing from action but Aunt Clara, Uncle Arthur, Maurice, and a new set of relatives (Hagatha and Enchantra) get their moments, and Dr.Bombay is introduced.  Louise and Gladys Kravitz were replaced by new actresses at this time but the change was not too noticable, especially in the case of Louise who looked and acted a lot like her forebear (however, I do not like the Kravitz of the color episodes as much as the B&W one).

Episode higlights include "Accidental Twins", with a lot of slapstick humor, "Endora Moves In For A Spell"/"Twitch Or Treat", with Uncle Arthur at his very best (and I disagree that these did not hit the heights of the "Yagazuzie" episode, these may be my favorite ever Uncle Arthur episodes), "The Trial and Error Of Aunt Clara" (funny, with a touching ending), "Three Wishes", "The Crone Of Cawdor" (clever plot twists here), "There's Gold In Them There Pills" (Dr.Bombay was always a scream) and "Bewitched, Bothered And Infuriated" (Larry is particularly great as the bothered victim).  It's all fun, and in color, and you should check it out!