Blue Velvet is a masterpiece of modern cinema and neo-noir.  It is veiled in mysteries that I still have not cracked after 8+ viewings.  It is simply one of my favorite films.
  Blue Velvet is a particularly well acted film, especially for an early David Lynch film (no offence David).  Dennis Hopper is incredible.  His role as Frank Booth has been ranked as one of the best villains in cinema history.  Isabella Rossellini also did a miraculous job as Dorothy Vallens.  Her portrayal, which even Roger Ebert found impressive, is sometimes heartbreaking and sometimes heartwarming, which is quite an amazing thing to accomplish in her first film role ever.
  While Blue Velvet is one of David Lynch's more "conventional" films, it still holds that mysterious aspect that David is so great at creating.  It contains little details that allow you to discover more with each viewing (SPOILERS*** such as: when Jeffery finds the ear in the beginning of the film, the camera zooms into the ear canal.  In the final scenes of the films, after Frank's dead and all is well, the camera zooms out of Jeffery's ear canal. Wow.)
  Blue Velvet is also loaded with clever symbolism and imagery that keeps you astounded every time you see it.  The blue lighting, the picket fence and flowers, the well-dressed man disguise, the kink in the hoes during Jeffery's father's stroke are all examples of the amazing imagery found in Blue Velvet.
  This DVD version of Blue Velvet does a fine job with the transfer, nothing that shouldn't be there.  The DVD itself is not loaded with features, but I particularly found the missing scene montage a great addition.  These scenes are still missing to this day and somehow they managed to find still frames from some of these scenes.  There is also an easter egg hidden in the DVD, but t is pretty pointless.
  Overall, this is a great film and a good DVD.  If you are looking to replace a VHS copy, go for it because this is worth it.  If you have never seen it, do so as soon as possible.  You should not be disappointed.