I recently happened to stumble in to Quad Cinema ( NYC )on a very lonely day of the week. Much to my surprise I made it just on time for one of the movies that was on the play list. Now any New Yorker knows how hard it is to catch a movie right on time and actually have tickets still avaible. Well I sat down not kowing what to expect. By the time the movie started and your introduced to the first characters Eli and Tom. You wounder if this is yet another boring love story about two homosexual repressed men trying to find them selves. Only to realize that what they where looking for was staring at them right in there faces. Well call me a cynic but I was right. However it wasn't boring and by no way near trite. I actually fell in love with the movie. Not to mention Richard Ruccolo who plays Tom, an Alcoholic 3rd grade teacher. He is in my book such a cutie.. He deffinetly has K-E (For those who go to see this movie and I think you should. You'll get the acronym)But for those who opt not to go see it. Its Killer Eyes. It is very much a romantic comedy and then some. The two central characters discuss and play out serious emotional and psychological issues that gay or straight, we are all faced with Love, Lust and Alcoholism. The Director Julia Davis does it all in a very witty way.Which by the end of the movie. Your laughing and wondering what will ever become of Tom and Eli. Well Folks thats what imaginations are for. I highly recommend this movie. To all of those starving romantics like Me. You'll eat it up with a spoon.!!! But don't take my word for it. Go and see it and take what you can from it and move on. Movies like this come once in a blue moon.....
And For Richard Ruccolo (Tom) He is the Gayest straight man I have ever seen. Thanks for doing such a great job on your role and making every thing believable. I only wish I could meet a real Tom in new york . hehe. SO every one who reads this Go and See All over the guy I am sure you'll like it. I've seen it twice and toke my friend to see it. I never get tired of it and my friend walk away loving it to.. thanks