My husband could barely contain himself when he found out that his much beloved Dr.Who was coming back to town on the Sci-fi channel back in 2005. I have to admit that I was a bit excited myself. Here was a chance to get reaquainted with the a little British sci-fi export about this painfully British looking guy (Tom Baker, of course) with this forever long scarf loping about among cheap "hi-tech" sets with this much younger British chick. I had only seen a couple of episodes as a very young child and found that it merely creeped me out (I believe it was Robots of Death), but I remembered enough to relate when people mentioned the show, or when I would hear the theme music. So, here I am at 33 years-old ready to wipe the Dr.Who slate clean and begin things all anew for my husband's enjoyment, if anything.

The new series has been alot of fun. Hearing the theme music again, even to a non-fan is nostalgic enough to bring tears to the eye.  The effects and studio sets look great, the stories exciting and clever.  Both doctors have been fun loving and just chock-full of all things a sci-fi fan could possibly want, and proving once again that one doesn't have to be a "kill em all and let God sort em out" kind of hero to save the day in Whoville.  So, I give this series a nice, healthy rating. Room for it to shoot for perfection, not that it has far to go.  That being said. . .

After watching "School Reunion" with Elizabeth Sladen reprising her role as Sarah Jane Smith with faithful computer dog K-9, it made me wonder about the whole Dr.Who phenomenon in general.  My husband filled me in on the fact that this show had been on for 26 consecutive years from 1963-1989 and that there had been more doctors before and after scarf dude. So, out of curiosity, I started dabbling into classic Dr.Who mostly from the 70's being that this period more coinsides with the little I remember about the show, and the fact that more dvds are available from this era.  Since then I've seen the light.

True, the effects and sets are still pretty poor, and the creatures costumes rather embarrassing, the scripts a bit forced, but it does accomplish one very important aspect of Dr.Who.  It lasted out 26 years through the blood, sweat, and tears of those men and women in front and behind the camera.  There were no computer artists to type in a program to bring all those monsters closer to life.  Many scripts were written up in a week's time or less.  The filming was fast and furious, often requiring the actors to get it right the first time, because studio time was a precious and expensive commodity.  All this to fill up a half hour every Saturday for British kids, and somehow, it still became a worldwide obsession.

Okay, enough of the soap-box talk and on to personal opinions of these new doctors.  Now, mind you, I like these guys, just as I mentioned before, and if these were the absolute first to play the role, it would be a no-brainer to say that they are dead-on.  But they aren't the absolute firsts and in some ways there is a lot to be desired.  They do a great job taking on bits and pieces of the doctors they generated from, but I find Eccleston's heavy northern accent rather jolting.  He reminds me of Drax from the Armaggedan Factor episode from 1978 with that accent, and I'd rather not be reminded of Drax manifesting in any doctor regeneration! And as for little David Tennant, well, I referred to him as a little, oily rat in another review, but only because I had only seen him in his role in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and he did such a great job as a little, oily rat man (other than wormtail, of course)!  He's also rather too young looking to play this 900 year-old Timelord. At his age he has to be careful not to come off a some arrogant, know-it-all brat.  And as for companion Rose and all her baggage (I mean 'family'), I don't recall Tom Baker's doctor ever caring whether he had a companion or not. He most certainly never begged them to come along, they were sort of always dumped on him to haul around.

These are personal opinions, of course, and if northern British accents and kid looking timelords are your cup of tea, hey, this new series is perfection already. But if you can't help but long for the Bohemian dressed, scarf wearin', alien charm of Tom Baker loping about those cheap, built from scratch sets, ad-libbing Oscar Wilde style in his smooth baratone voice, then slap 4 stars on this series and remember to be eternally grateful that it brought you back to tried and true, bare knuckle Who.