I rented this movie because a: it was free, and b: it had Stacey Dash as a cowgirl. Mreow.  So, that being said, if you want to see a movie with Stacey Dash in it or if you want to see L'il Kim on a horse, then watch this movie. The movie bills itself as a "hip hop revisionist western". Um, okay. I can maybe see what they were going for, but the movie just misfires on almost all cylinders. The movie isn't hip-hop enough or western enough, instead it treads a poorly realized watered-down version of both. I think it wanted to have a "you-go-girl" empowered woman mentality, but that didn't really happen either. There was absolutely no character growth and the character motivations were all one dimensional and superficial to their behavior. The performances, for the most part, aren't bad but aren't anything special either. The exception is Charity Hill as Bobby Brown's (yes, THAT Bobby Brown) right-hand woman. She delivers a performance that looks like they booted her off of a bad episode of "In Living Color" for trying too hard.

I was thinking that the movie was a solid two stars of five until I saw the same guy get shot and fall off of a balcony twice within thirty seconds. I had to rewind that to make sure I wasn't seeing things. And on the subject of rewinding, keep your eyes open for a "blink-and-you'll-miss-it" cameo from Mario Van Peebles. His cameo was so quick that not only was he listed as "cameo" in the credits, but I had to rewind it twice because I didn't believe what I was seeing. It was like they spliced 4 seconds of "Posse" into the film for no reason. However, after the movie SHOULD end and fades to black before the credits, I saw one of the most ridiculous things I've ever seen and the sheer befuddlement of it made me raise my review back to two stars. All I'm saying is if you want to see a dude riding a horse, making it step vaguely in tune to a rap beat while in no way involving any part of the plot of the movie, then don't turn the movie off until the credits roll.

During the featurette included on the DVD, the writer/director mentions looking for someone in the music industry to be in the movie to cash in on the music fanbase. I think instead of trying to cash in on a fanbase he should have concentrated his efforts into a better script. I do love his own casting in the movie as the character who shares the movie's only love scene (with L'il Kim). I can imagine him casting it going "Hmm...I need someone to make out with L'il Kim in this scene, who can I get for that part? I know! Me!" So kudos to him for casting himself in that role and kudos to the costume designer. The Roses all had a unique outfit that were all pretty unbelievably anachronistic, but they were all sexy except Monica Calhoun's.

So come for Stacey Dash and stay for the LisaRaye's white outfit and L'il Kim riding a horse. Is the movie good? Not really. Is it bad? Pretty much. But where else are you going to see Stacey Dash as a cowgirl with a midriff? Unless you're Stacey's boyfriend (who's gotta be one of the luckiest dudes ever), then probably nowhere.