Pros
Excellent story, beautiful setting, Acting very good
Cons
Didn't like the way women were treated and portrayed as just sex objects
The Bottom Line
Want to learn more about India as far as society goes, not just in for counting how many ways they have sex as well as positions. See this movie.

Full Review
Plot Details: This opinion reveals minor details about the movie's plot.
I've always loved and enjoyed learning about Indian culture. I first saw this movie on HBO and only caught part of it. The next time it came on I made sure NOBODY interrupted me. I was so impressed and moved by this movie that I knew I had to have it on tape. 
I don't think I could say enough about the setting it was absolutely breathtaking. What I also enjoyed where the stark contrasts of society. You see the rich in their kingdoms as well s the poor and their living conditions. Then there are the middle class who either work for the king or have some kind of trade of their own. 
This story is about two young girls one a princess the other a servant girl,who come from different backgrounds yet are the best of friends. Until the night of the princess's wedding. Because of her actions the servant girl is banned from the kingdom forced to live upon her own. She is determined to make her own destiny in life instead of having it made FOR HER. 
I really admired this woman's hopes and her attitude. She was not going to be ruled by any man. Not even the king but only by the man she loved. She knew how to use her body to get what she wanted yet still kept her pride intact. She wasn't what I would call the norm as far as a concubine would be or act. Yet even at the end when I thought she would truly break down, she becomes even stronger and walks out on the luxery she knew and finds herself a new path to walk in life. 
Like I said I enjoyed this movie so much I bought it on VHS and just a couple of months ago I just found it on DVD. So now I have the movie in BOTH formats. Of course I enjoy the DVD version better, you get background info on the actors in the movie. As well as a little history lesson on the kama sutra, and other interesting facts on India.
Recommended
Yes
Viewing Format: DVD
Video Occasion: Good for a Rainy Day
Suitability For Children: Not suitable for Children of any age