The first reason any person will watch this movie for, is the action.  It's not a modern action movie by any means, but it has some really good shoot-outs.  But that's not why I bought this movie.  I'm at an incredibly dull college so I was looking for something to do in the boredom, so I started taking the movies I have and analyzing them, once I got through them I started buying some more just to pass time.  This Movie is easily the best western ever made.

The Director of this movie isn't American, at the time he made it, he didn't even speak english.  But many of the elements are so much more authentic than American westerns.  The clothing and settings for instance.  One thing that stands out is the background characters, they're all very rugged, worn down, some don't have legs, others have no arms, Angel Eyes is missing the tip of one of his fingers, which you can see if you look close enough.  This lends so much to the gritty feel of the west.  Another element that is downright amazing is how Sergio Leone (the director) uses close-ups and Panoramas, typically a movie specializes in one or the other, this movie has amazing panoramas and then, seconds later, a close-up showing the ruggedness of a character (the first scene where Tuco is introduced stands out, with the man who trys to kill Tuco).  All three of the characters balance out as well, and all of them are well developed.  Blondie (Eastwood) is quiet, contemplative and smarter than the other two in many ways.  Tuco (Wallach) never stops talking, and is always looking for a way to earn money, or to take revenge on the others in the movie.  Angel Eyes (Van Cleef) is thoroughly evil, and he fits the part of a scheming and evil man very well, with his thin eyes and evil chuckle.

One of my favorite parts of the movie is the Dialogue.  For instance, "...even so, I know that I have a brother who'll never refuse me."  Or, "Hooray for the Confederacy, God is on our side, he hates the Yankees too!!! (Tuco) No, God is not on out side, he hates idiots too.(Blondie)"  Which he says as the officer that just rode up reveals a blue uniform covered in gray dust.  And lastly, "See you soon, id...idi.... (Tuco), Idiots, It's for you (Blondie)."  There are many other incredible lines that speak so much to viewers, like many of the things that the Yankee army captain says about the horrors and stupidity of war and leaders (about some unimportant bridge that could save thousands of soldiers lives if it were just blown up instead of fighting over it).

Pick up this movie for it's action, watch it for the depth, you'll enjoy it.