After seeing the mini-series on PBS, I just had to read the book and buy the DVD! The same production team that made the wonderful 1996 adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice" did a superb job in adapting "Wives and Daughters." The cast also does justice to the way the characters were written by Mrs. Gaskell -- my only reservations were Keely Hawes as the beautiful Cynthia (her hair style was very unappealing; in "Our Mutual Friend" she is ten times more good-looking), and Anthony Howell as Roger had to grow on me after a few viewings to be fully appreciated. But Justine Waddell just shines as Molly, and Bill Paterson as Mr. Gibson and Sir Michael Gambon as Squire Hamley are in top form (the latter justly deserving all the kudos and awards he received in the UK).
I was immensely pleased with the 3-disc DVD. The first two have each two episodes, as shown on TV, with scene selection capabilities (my only complaint is that they do not have any subtitles available). The picture is crystal clear and very sharp. Other BBC productions, such as P&amp;P and Emma, which are much darker, don't age particularly well, but the brightness in Wives and Daughters makes it fresh and the quality equals that of a feature film. 
The third disc is reserved for the extra features: cast bios (the print could have been a bit larger) and two "featurettes", "Who the Dickens is Mrs. Gaskell?" and the "Making-of" of Wives and Daughters. The Making-of is just delightful. It runs 20 minutes long, and shows a lot of cast-member interviews (some in modern clothes, which is a real kick -- Anthony Howell in jeans and t-shirt! Justine Waddell in a bath robe!) and they all provide a lot of valuable insight into the characters. The documentary on Mrs. Gaskell is interesting, but the first 15 minutes (out of 50) are the best, as they again show more behind-the-scenes of Wives and Daughters. The rest mostly follows a group of Gaskell enthusiasts as they visit the places she lived in and discuss her other works.
If you enjoyed the book and the mini-series, buy the DVD -- it is worth every penny!