The story of Alexander Nevsky is set in the year 1242, at a time when Russia was surrounded by powerful enemies both East (the Mongols) and West (the Germans). It should be interesting to note that in 1938, when the film was made, Soviet Russia probably felt much the same, with world powers such as Japan and Germany within striking distance of the Motherland.

 The story begins with Nevsky assisting his peasants in fishing (clearly Communist propaganda - noblemen would almost never associate with peasants) and meanwhile, a band of Mongols rides up, demanding subservience of the Russians. This leads to a scuffle, and Nevsky goes to stop it, as it is scaring off the fish. The Mongols recognize Nevsky as the Russian general who defeated the Swedes at Nava (Sweden was also a powerful nation in the 1200's) and try to recruit him. However, Nevsky is a patriot and refuses.

 While Nevsky's people advise him to gird for war against the Mongols, the Germans invade and capture the city of Pskov and Novgorod. In Novgorod, the exterminate the population, and there is a scene where the German chieftain (denoted by the huge horns on his helmet) throws a couple of Russian children into a huge bonfire, one of which he has ripped away from the grasp of his mother. You would think that such a scene, if made in 2004, would have enormous potential for gore and poignancy, but since it was made in 1938, it seemed rather cheesy and even fairly comical in its execution. The kids aren't thrown so much as dropped a short distance, in the same fashion a father would help his child dismount a jungle gym.

 Anyhow, all this stirs up the Russian peasantry into pure patriotic fervor, and there is more Communist propaganda in a scene where Nevsky urges the nobles of Novgorod (who had fled) to go along with the army, and fight patriotically, instead of worrying about their financial situation. Nevsky is urged to take command of the newly-formed army, and he quickly sets about scouting a suitable battlefield.

 The battlefield in question is the surface of a frozen lake, and Nevsky skillfully baits the Germans into following his army onto the ice, then doing battle. A skillful flanking manuever sends the Germans into flight, and the Russians chase them all the way to the thin part of the lake, where the heavily-armored Germans fall through the thin ice and many are drowned.

 I have to say that the battle scene was, IMHO, a bit overlong, and not particularly imaginative or enlightening. It had the quality of a huge, confusing melee, with shots of the main characters swinging away with their swords. The battle scenes take up more than half the movie. The movie can certainly be considered a classic, but for someone used to seeing movies like "Braveheart", it's a bit dated.