Well, I have just seen a Russian version of the DVD on a region free DVD-ROM and I wasn't surprised by the level of content.  I was expecting unflinching scenes of graphic sex, but was shocked and a bit disturbed from the depiction of brutally honest acts of paraphilia.  There are many uncut scenes of coitus, cunnilingus, masturbation, menage trois, and a bit of S&M, which some may think excessive and others may find unwatchable.  During many of these scenes, it was painfully unsettling to view myself, but then i thought about my thought process.  Our traditional, civilized society automatically triggers them as taboo in our psyche and we automatically dismiss it as pornographic or exploitative. When in reality it shows these paraphiliac acts with unflinching realism that it forces us to think about why we are caught up in the controversy of its extremity when we should just accept them as standard sexual dysfunctions in our society.  Having said that, I would just like to say this film is daring and audacious, staking new grounds in realism of American suburban life.  That it would have me thinking so deeply about its content is proof of how thought provoking this film is.  Yes, this film shows uncut sex, full frontal male nudity (many times), and disturbing images of psychotic rage and sexual dysfunction.  It raises many questions about society and doesn't even begin to answer them.  Some people complain that it lacks structure, story, moral center, and contains too much sex.

1. The structure is typical of the generation X screenplay: it doesn't have a coherent one, but jumps around from character to character.

2. The story is told from multiple narrators, all of whom are childhood friends.

3. The moral center is ambiguous and can contain several different interpretations.

My take on the moral is that of our society's repression of sexuality.  We try so hard to maintain a civilized facade, that sometimes we forget that we are uncontrollable sexual animals.  This can lead to disastrous results as this sexual monster of a predator builds up inside, waiting to be unleashed.  Sometimes in the form of paraphilia.  Sometimes we forget that people with paraphilia are human and have probably suffered some sexual trauma or sexual repression as youths.  That is where the film doesn't explain: how did these characters become like this?  Then theres the uncut sexual content.  I believe this film is making a statement about not only sexual dysfunctions but about how we view them in our society.  The impulsive response is to say ucch, what a sicko, or perv, and that automatically blinds any form of sympathy or empathy.  Showing these acts unfold in real time, without cutting away, forcing us to view it, forces us to deal with the issue.  This is true of all Clarks films (Another Day in Paradise being the most conventional).  As for the ending, I believe Ken Park killed himself because he couldn't live to see his child grow in such a dysfunctional society.  His response to him not being aborted says it all.  So to sum up I couldn't stop thinking about this film.  It was shocking, yes.  Disturbing, yes.  But it definitely requires discussion afterwards.

-depictions of Paraphilia

1.Peaches the exhibitionist (she let the boys watch her undress)

2.Tate the hypoxyphile (choking himself while masturbating)

3.Tate the necrophile (he gets hard while observing his grandparents corpses)

4.Peaches the sexual sadist (tying Curtis to the bed)

5.Peaches dad the pedofile(marrying his daughter; maybe not pedophilia considering Peaches age but not right anyhow) if you would then you'd also call

6.Claudes father a pedophile (fellatio on his son) and also

7.Rhonda's affair with Shawn (although i wouldn't mind being taken by her)