While lacking the hallucinogenic colour schemes of "Suspiria" and "Inferno", this film has a distinct aesthetic of its own, and it is beautifully executed. It perfectly synthesizes all of the most endearing (or alienating, depending on who you are) stylistic and thematic elements of an Argento film: fetishism, bravura camera and editing techniques, murder setpieces as clever as they are brutal, stagey acting, and nonsensical dialogue. The camerawork is endlessly inventive, swooping and spinning and diving in for ludicrously tight closeups like it's being operated by a five-year-old on ten cups of coffee. I especially love the scene in the wardrobe department when you're not sure when the camera represents the killer's POV and when it's just a camera; you just KNOW the costume designer's going to get it, but the camera keeps you guessing when it's going to come. It's very disorienting, but in a perfectly intentional way.
Although it's technically a giallo, "Opera" borders on a horror movie sheerly by virtue of its style. Even hardcore fans have complained about the ending, which seems too bright and happy for an Argento film, but I think it's just perfect. C'mon...a one-eyed killer chasing a beautiful young opera diva around the Swiss Alps to the tune of '80s thrash metal--what's not to like?
All I can say about most of the negative Argento reviews I've read is that they miss the point; some critics feel compelled to focus on narrative "weaknesses" that obviously were of little interest to Argento because he was busy creating a stylish masterpiece. If you're the sort of person who can lose yourself in the internal meaning of the movie without quibbling about how unrealistic or nonsensical it is, you may like this one. I don't understand the mentality that equates "realistic" with "good". It's ART, for crying out loud!
Anyway, the Anchor Bay package is lovely. The picture and audio are as vivid and crisp as if it were just shot and recorded yesterday. The soundtrack CD is a very nice bonus. Claudio Simonetti recorded some decent music for this one: some heavy instrumental synth-rock and some pretty, opera-esque music with a slightly creepy edge. Throw in some crazy thrash metal by a couple of 80's bands, and you've got a soundtrack as bizarre as the movie it graces. Also, there's an EXCELLENT making-of documentary.