People sure like to complain.  Having read several disparaging reviews of this collection's quality, I was concerned that these DVDs might be a bad purchase.  I am glad that I bought them anyway.  Yes, I have seen older TV shows restored to better picture and sound quality, but the picture is acceptable (much as it would have appeared on our low-tech televisions during its original run).  The sound is also pretty good. My only real gripe is the lack of closed captioning or subtitles.

Frankly, I am grateful that this series is on DVD at all.  The current era of science fiction is all about computer graphics and sex-appeal as exemplified by shows such as "Battlestar Galactica" and the big budget remount of "V".  I am afraid that there isn't much room for creaky old shows like "Space 1999". which is essentially a British show that was shown in the U.S. in syndication.

Releasing old television shows onto DVD is expensive, and companies that publish them are in it to make money.  Re-mastering, adding subtitles and inserting "value-added" material such as production notes and documentaries is expensive.  How much money is there really to be made in the U.S. off of "Space 1999"?  A better, more polished release for region 1 is fairly unlikely.

Sure, the "Doctor Who" stories from the 1960s, '70s and 80s have been made into some fantastic DVDs, but "Doctor Who" has a HUGE worldwide following and a team of very dedication restoration experts. As much as I love "Space 1999", I have to be honest and say that the show's appeal is probably limited to fans who saw it on television growing up, or to science fiction aficionados with imagination and an open mind.  "Space 1999" was made in the mid 1970s and is very much a product of its time.

In closing, rather than complain, I will cherish this extremely economical (17 discs containing 48 episodes) and fun collection.  I am delighted to have these stories to enjoy over and over again.  I would rather save my criticisms for companies that own the rights to vintage shows such as "Blake's 7" but won't release a region 1 iteration of the series for DVD.  Oh, and while we are at it, how about a DVD release of the campy classic "Batman" television series?