Living is never just one thing.  Lots of things are going on at the same time in real life, and they often contradict each other.  In war, for example, friendship and crass rivalry-- as well as compassion and murderous rage at one another-- can all occur simultaneously.  Characters we may have come to care about deeply live and die for all the right reasons, for all the wrong reasons, or for no reason at all-- all in the same instant of whizzing bullets or exploding shells.  A soldier we come to like and admire obtains a photo off of an anonymous dead enemy portraying a pretty girl he swears he will find to marry after the war; only for her to turn out to be a sniper on the other side who takes his life from a impersonal long distance.  This movie has the grace and wisdom to make all its opposing possibilities seem to fit together organically, into a continuously coherent story.  And each time one thinks the movie has ended, it picks up again with some further wrinkles . . . just like life!  For a long time, people have turned to the arts and religion to punctuate and frame experience-- to reassure them that eventuality is not as random and as full of contradictions, or of things that don't belong together standing side by side-- as it really is.  So we have typically been regaled with protagonists and  antagonists, each type drawn very sharply, reassuring us that the world is indeed just a black and white India ink pen drawing . . . with a resolvable beginning, middle, and end.  Once in a while, however, a true colorist emerges, and we are subjected to the multi-hued nature of genuine existence.  Not everybody can handle that sort of exposure, and it can be very challenging in an initially confusing (ground shaking) sort of way.  I urge you to buy this movie and see how you manage it.  Allow its many-stranded course of events to touch you emotionally.  Then indulge in a bit of soul searching about what happened inside you as you watched . . . and maybe why.  Good luck, and enjoy.  The experience will certainly be worth it.