One of my former bandmates who is classically trained on piano and is a Mozart and Beethoven fanatic got this DVD for Christmas.  She had never heard of Yngwie, so she didn't know what to expect.  Whoever gave it to her figured that a person that plays both rock and classical might appreciate this fusion or orchestra and electric guitar.  I'm familiar with Yngwie, so I figured there would be quite a bit of "shredding".

However, she found it kind of boring, and so did I.  Her main complaint, and mine too, is that he plays really fast seemingly ALL the time.  But I suppose Yngwie fans are used to that.  However, it would be nice to leave some space so the music can "breathe".  Also the constant display of technique loses its novelty very quickly.

I noticed some repetition in his playing.  He repeatedly ends a flurry of notes with a sustaining high note with heavy vibrato, then comes out of it with a descending flurry of notes down the neck.  I swear he does that same thing on all the songs.  I might be exaggerating, but it happened enough to stick out in my mind.

It appears that the orchestra and Yngwie aren't always in-synch.  There are some points where both are supposed to play some accented notes, yet the orchestra is slightly behind Yngwie.  Or perhaps Yngwie is ahead of the orchestra.  Who's leading the proceedings anyways, Yngwie or the conductor?

His guitar tone doesn't seem to mesh very well with the orchestra.  It's interesting to note that Uli Jon Roth, who has also played with orchestras, said he had to change his tone so it would blend well with an orchestra.  Watch some Uli videos on YouTube and you will see that indeed  his tone does work better with an orchestra than Yngwie's.

In general, it sounds like Yngwie is playing on "top" of the orchestra and not "with" the orchestra.  Sometimes I wasn't sure if the parts he played had any relation to what the orchestra was playing.  It kind of sounded like a guy shredding over an orchestral background.  It seems like there is more of a disconnect between the soloist and the orchestra than in a "normal" concerto.

I hate to say it, but my favorite parts were when Yngwie didn't play, like in the intro.  And even the orchestral parts aren't that interesting.  He's no Bach or Vivaldi in my book.

Later my friend discovered some of Yngwie's rock stuff and she said she liked that much better.

Note that my review is based on one viewing of the DVD.  Perhaps I could gain more appreciation through multiple viewings, but to be honest, I'm just not up to it.