Dark Skies instantly became my favorite TV show when it originally aired on NBC as part of their three new show lineup (The Pretender, Dark Skies, and Profiler). Somehow the other two shows survived but Dark Skies didn't get renewed for a second season. Nevertheless the show has remained one of my favorites and I have been anxiously awaiting a DVD release of it for 14 years!

Before this set was available I literally created by own DVD set by recording Dark Skies when it was re-aired on the SyFy network and then writing the episodes to DVDs. This was adequate but of course no where near the quality of a true retail set and needless to say didn't include any of the great behind the scenes bonus material that you get with this set.

All of the episodes are included and look great. The first and last episodes also include an optional commentary track with the producers and main actors. There is also an alternate pilot episode included that was aired in other countries. As explained on the commentary, many aspects of Dark Skies had to be modified in order to not "compete" with elements of the then soon to be released "Men In Black" movie that was produced by the same studio.

The set includes lots of TV promo spots that ran to promote the start of the series and also includes a video that was produced when the show was shopped to other networks. The video was made as an alternative to the linear timeline of the show (which originally had each season covering roughly a decade of actual history, with the series catching up to present day right at the turn of the century). Once it was evident that NBC did not want to continue this timeline the producers came up with an idea of time travel as a mechanism to transport the lead actors to present day (then 1997) so the series could continue in the present, but, as we know, this also did not impress the studio and was not produced either.

All in all this is a fantastic set whether you are a long time fan or are just now watching for the first time. The last episode will leave you wanting more, which is the only downside of the set, but the series is still great up until that point and is worth watching! The set is priced great as well making it a "no brainer" to pick up!