Director Rob Bowman's latest film gets a lukewarm review from me. It seems that Bowman's real talent lies in television sitcoms where his abilities have been exemplified in over 30 X-Files episodes, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Quantum Leap, and various other (forgettable) shows (like Baywatch).

I'm not sure what the screenwriters were thinking when they conjured the screenplay up. To be honest, upon one viewing of this film, I'm unsure as to whether the screenwriters even read up on the character of Elektra and Frank Miller's work in molding the character.

Ever since Frank Miller took over responsibilities with Daredevil issue #168 (1981), he created one of the darkest, emotionally evocative, and moving characters ever created in comics. And with the comic series that premiered in 2001, she even took a darker turn. Elektra is a troubled individual, an assassin, hired hitman, one who lives for violence seemingly to replace missing puzzle pieces in her life.

...this movie seems to ignore ALL of those things. The Elektra I'm used to barely has a conscience; the film Elektra is pretty soft-core. The Hand in the comics are a band of hellish, devious ninja-types; the Hand in the movie are a bunch of Hollywood-style souped up dorks. There are more things akin to this...the film just misses the mark.

My other grumblings are as follows: the pace of the film was sluggish, picking up at times, but dragging for the most part. The other nitpick is the film is overly short for a 21st century non-family type film! It's 97 minutes long!!! By the time the action starts to pick up a little toward the end, it's already almost over!

I thought it was a little weird how in Daredevil, it seemed to suggest that had a sequel been released Matt Murdock would definitely be included. But I suppose we should all be happy that Ben Affleck decided to sit this one out. (I would compare his skills with that of Tom Cruise.)

Elektra proves to be an entertaining movie in the face of its sluggish and mediocre nature. But if you're not doing anything, it's pretty neat to check out although you probably won't want to ever watch it again. As a former avid comic reader, I don't know if it's just me, but it seems as if Marvel's movie company has REALLY been slacking lately, ever since The Hulk (which was absolutely TERRIBLE), and the lackluster Fantastic Four. Hopefully, this year's X3 will be Marvel's saving grace.