In a 1970's review, who's author I'm at an unfortunate loss to recall, it was prophecised that Network would be a huge commmercial smash. Imagine that! Could a movie like this woo modren crowds who labor under the belief that by simply being enjoyable a movie is worthy? No. There is a pleasant lack of what in modren terms could be considered "commercial appeal", in fact there is not even a score to manipulate our emotions as the director sees fit, which alone merits praise. Our latter day Athenian crowds squeal like indignant pigs when their vices are questioned ("If you don't like it, leave America"), but regardless it should be done in the spirit of satire, at least. How wonderful then that Paddy Chayefsky does an extradordinary job. Yes, maybe the message will fall on deaf ears, as another review has stated. Perhaps we have embraced Jerry Springer as "a crazy uncle", and badly staged sex scenes on tv still makes us grunt like pigs in estrus; as long as there are people of reason, the truth of Chayefsky's indictment will not fade away.
 I believe that credit for the success of the picture can be divided equaly among the Writer, the cast, and the director( yes, Hollywood folk out there who read this. The credit should not be the director, the cast, and then-lastly-the Writer), who perform their duties with the skill much lacking in the younger filmmakers of today. *sigh* Now if only agesim could be abolished in Hollywood, the teen demographic utterly forgotten, and innovative ideas given their day instead of being rewritten to be safe, yawn inducing cliches by illiterate "writers" with an eye toward a new Lexus.... Enjoy this crown jewel of cinema that could only have been made in the 70's, a great decade for movies. It did not earn Best Picture, of course(Rocky did) which I'd call it a crime, but given that the Academy of Motion Pictures has also awarded How Green Was My Valley Best Picture in the same year as the release of Citizen Kane, never gave Hitchcock an award, nor Stanley Kubrick, and among other laughable deeds gave Julia Roberts an oscar over Ellen Burstyn, the academy has rendered itself obsolite in mine eyes.