This version of the Hypatia story isn't historically accurate in some respects, but it quite accurately displays the horror of Christianity during the 5th century, the legacy of Diocletian, eagerly adopted by the brutal 'catholic' brand of Christian apostasy which, after fighting with other Christians for three centuries, finally got control via Constantine, in the fourth.  It is a very hard movie to watch.  We have a sordid and disgusting history, yet claim as "Lord", someone who DIED rather than be brutal to others.  Thus we spit on His Name.

The plot is based on history.  Problem is, the movie adds subplots of romance which are not true.  Basically, a pagan woman mathematician and philosopher who defended freedom of faith, ends up brutally raped and murdered by monks.  The movie version does not accurately portray her age when it happens (she was elderly), nor the monks who did it, probably to avoid ratings problems.  But it does nonetheless, in Cecille B. DeMille style, show the crowd frenzy.  Christians, egged on by a maniacal leader, just as much a mob as the one storming in the French or Russian or Chinese revolutions.  Shame on us.

Our 'Church Fathers' were absolute JERKS.  And if you read what they write, you'll see that, soon enough.  They whitewashed our evil past, and persecuted anyone who properly wrote about it, with the result that we have NO idea what the Bible really says, or what our history, really was.  This movie, therefore, will likely be denounced by some, thinking it is anti-Christian.  No, it's pro-Christian, for the real Christian would never have engaged in that sordid past.  Some of the subplot elements do show this fact (I don't want to give away any details).  The dilemma of being a Christian yet giving into a crowd ABUSING the Bible, in the name of Christ!  That was our history, and it ought to be admitted.  But it has not been. Since those responsible, laud the disgusting 'church fathers' who were unabashedly apostate, anti-semitic, power-mad and just plain wacko.

So all of us Christians need to see this movie.  It captures the time, well.  Constantine and his ilk were pawns of the evil that began in 96AD and has continued ever since.  The production is lavish, in Biblical style, and everyone associated with this movie should get a million dollar reward for the courage to make it.

I am a Christian.  I make exegetical videos in Youtube, 'brainouty' channel, showing how Paul predicted this apostasy year by year, starting when Christ would have been age 56, in his meter of Ephesians 1:3-14.  So you see the brutal history plotted out in a kind of satire, showing how God's Plan will be achieved DESPITE our tawdry fake faith.  Extensive links to internet scholarly sources of the time are in the 'Chrono Chart' showing Paul's satire syllable (year) by syllable, at [...] .  I'm currently making videos to demonstrate how Paul's satire, works.  Will take well over a year to finish making them.