My husband and I are veterans (and champions!) of adult-level spelling bees, so I felt really close to this movie. In fact, the movie had only been on for 11 minutes and I'd already started crying tears of joy when Angela won her regional bee, securing her place at the national Scripps-Howard bee in Washington, DC. 
The kids profiled in this movie are fantastic. I found myself rooting for all of them, even the one or two who I didn't really like. I wanted to take little Harry home with me -- his facial expressions and his extended rambling about whether or not he could be considered "talkative" are just hysterical.
The parents are interesting as well. All of them are supportive of their children and have different ways of showing it. Neil's parents (especially his father) are a little intense, and it's easy to see them in a negative light, but when Neil is knocked out of the national competition, their reaction is to be supportive of their son. Nothing wrong with that. April's mother is nutsy, with huge red-framed eyeglasses. She's constantly giggling, "Beeeeee Happy! B-E-E!" April comments that her mother reminds her of Edith Bunker, "because she's kinda dumb."
The competiton is nail-bitingly suspenseful. I found myself whispering the spellings of the words as the kids struggled, hoping they would somehow hear me. A couple of the kids have heartbreaking moments where you can see the anguish on their faces as they struggle to make sense of a word. One girl nearly starts crying; it was all I could do not to cry too!
My one criticism of the movie lies in how they handled the winner of the national bee. First they tell you who won, and only a few minutes later do they show you the winner spelling the winning word. What could have been a superb climax is completely defused. The rest of the documentary stirs up so much emotion, I can't imagine why the filmmakers chose to utterly derail what should have been the climax of the movie. 
Overall, however, this is a charming, exciting film -- one that I will watch more than once, and may even purchase for my collection. I imagine that, for most people, this is a "watch it once" film, a curiosity about geeky brainy kids and an odd bit of Americana, and that's fine. Even if you're not a word nerd, watch this film once and see how the other half lives. Even if you think these kids are weird for caring so much about spelling, you're bound to learn something, whether it's how to spell a five-syllable word, or the kind of dedication and diligence a mere 12-year-old is capable of.