This movie is a masterpiece of intelligent shoot-em-up action.

Ripley (Sigourney Weaver, hero from first film) is retrieved after 57 years from hypersleep adrift in her space shuttle. At an inquest, officials disbelieve her story and suspend her space officer license, because she destroyed the huge valuable Nostromo ship. She is informed that a terraforming colony has been established on LV-426, and no aliens have been detected. She has to get a blue-collar job on a loading dock and has nightmares every night about the aliens. Later, Burke (Paul Reiser), a corporate agent, informs her that contact has been lost with LV-426 and a section of Marines is being sent to investigate. Burke offers to re-instate her license and employ if she will act as an embedded advisor to the Marines.

The Marines and Ripley awake from hypersleep and drop to LV-426. They find the colony empty of colonists and signs of firefight everywhere. Through transponders planted in the colonists, they determine that they are all collected together at the colony' central fusion processing plant, dead or alive. The Marines move in on the plant, and an almost non-stop roller-coaster ride of shoot-em-up action unfolds all the way to end of the film. Expect twists and turns.

This is first and foremost an action film. The Marines are gung-ho and so are the aliens. All the battles are close-quarter, brutal and gorey. The aliens are portrayed much more realistically than in the first film, and there are a lot of them. The Marines' weapons are effective, but they are way outnumbered.

This is also a science fiction film. We get to see the aliens up close and their life-cycle. We get to see powerful weapon gadgets. We get to see the new and improved android. We get to see a cool drop-ship and armored personnel carrier. We get to see an exosuit used to full potential. We get to see how commerce corrupts the future as much as it does the present.

This is also a significant feminist film. Ripley is the hero. She rocks. She shows her leadership skills, her intellgence and her battle skills. We also get to see her establish a relationship with the colony's only survivor, 9-year-old Newt who becomes essentially Ripley's adopted daughter. Weaver in all these aspects displays a supreme range of emotions. She is a hero for the ages. Also, several of the Marines are female and they are just as badass as the men. The all-female showdown at the film's explosive conclusion is a classic. We get to see how a real man (Corporal Hicks) treats women respectfully.

Every aspect of this film is first-class. The sets look real. The aliens look and move realistically. The script, direction, cinematography, music, sound, editing are all virtually perfect. The only detail I found unrealistic is that the explosions in such close quarters in reality would have damaged all parties on both ends of the guns, and seems to me the alien acid blood would do more damage. But who cares about little stuff.

This is one my favorite films of all time. Just to give you an idea of my perspective, I also love Blade Runner, Starship Troopers, District 9, Lord of the Rings, Gladiator, Rome (TV series), Spartacus Blood/Sand/Arena, Serenity, Dune (TV miniseries), Black Hawk Down, ...