This technically superior film begins with a caveat that the portrayal of Nixon is interpretative. Even given that, though, the acting is so fine one finds oneself slipping into the assumptions of the movie. No doubt much of the Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of Richard Nixon is historical. But here's the rub: we don't really know where history ends and interpretation begins. For example, we know Nixon suffered bouts of paranoia and even perhaps mental illness, but we don't know if Hopkins went too far. He so magnificently fills the role of Nixon we tend to forget this may not have been the actual Nixon. Same thing with Oliver Stone's twist on history. For example, in the movie itself, and more explicitly in his director's commentary (there are two different tracks), he strongly implies that Kissinger was the main leak. We now know, however, that Mark Felt was "Deep Throat," not Kissinger. Yet, Stone in his commentary says it almost definitively, and the movie we watch reflects his opinion-portrayed-as-fact.

On one hand, this does not detract from the magnificent achievement that this movie is. It's incredibly well-made and multi-layered. However, the line between interpretation and history is so blurred, in so many ways, the high marks we give it for its artistic achievement cannot help but be qualified by the iffyness of its interpretiveness.

This, I believe, can best be illustrated by one of the peculiar gimmicks Stone employs. And I couldn't figure it out the first couple of times I saw the movie. He mixes black-and-white footage with color. This makes sense when he uses stock footage -- e.g. a clip of Lenin or a flashback to the Alger Hiss proceedings. It makes no sense, at least at first, to switch between b-w and color, in numerous scenes throughout the movie, that are not flashbacks. Why, for instance, switch from b-w to color and back to b-w while Nixon is talking with J Edgar Hoover or Haldeman? It's not a flashback. Then it struck me. This is the expression, whether conscious or not, of Oliver's attempt to balance interpretation and history. It's as if the b-w parts represent raw history and then the color parts represent interpretation. So the scene with Hoover that fluctuates between b-w and color is Stone's artistic way of saying: history-interpretation, interpretation-history; we don't know where one starts and the other stops. It's a mixture. This is both the beauty and the beastliness of the movie.

Stone's commentary is good, not great but good, and enlightening. I would have really liked to have heard a running commentary, however, by a real historian, or someone with a political bent different from Stone's. Maybe someone like Stephen Ambrose, who write the definitive biography of Nixon. That would have made this more than a movie, but a visual document of historical worth.

Still, a worthwhile movie to see and see again. Just not quite a fiver.