Review 5 of 7 for the set reviews
Mickey, the mouse that started it all, comes to life in color. These were the first 28 color cartoons featuring Mickey. Mickey Mouse was the mouse that started it all, and he made and overnight star of himself and his creator, an alter ego, Walt Disney. His first color cartoon was the minni masterpiece, "The Band Concert." This collection starts when you put in the first disc. After the "Walt Disney Treasures" preview, you are in the theater and the curtian lifts on Mickey Mouse. Leanord Maltin will be your host, and will tell you the things you will be seeing at the corner of Mickey Avenue and Dopey Drive on the Disney Studio lot. When you get to the menu, you may play all, go to 1935 or the 1936 cartoon years. You may also choose to play the Easter Egg, "Walt and Mickey" T.V. excerpted from the Disneyland Story. There is also an extra cartoon named "Parade of Award Nominees" for the 1935 Oscar ceramony. Then you may use captions, and play the introduction. The cartoons on this disc are: "The Band Concert," "Mickey's Garden," "On Ice," "Pluto's Judgement Day," "Mickey's Fire Brigade," "Thru the Mirror," "Mickey's Circus," "Mickey's Elephant," "Mickey's Grand Opera," "Mickey's Polo Team," "Alpine Climbers," "Moving Day," "Mickey's Rival," and "Orphan's Picnic." The final thing on disc one is the pencil tests for "Mickey's Fire Brigade," "On Ice," and "Pluto's Judgement Day." After that, disc two goes in. The curtains part and you see a menu featuring the play all, 1937 and 1938 cartoons, captions, gallery of art, theatrical posters, and photos, and the "Mickey In Living Color" eaturette with Leanord Maltin. The featurette discusses the mouse that started it all. There is another eater egg here. It is the cartoon shown at the 1939 World's Fair. It was a promotional film for Nabisco named "Mickey's Surprise Party." The cartoons on this disc are: "Hawaiian Holdiay, "Moose Hunters," "The Worm Turns," "Magician Mickey," "Mickey's Amateures," "Clock Cleaners,"Lonesome Ghosts," "Mickey's Parrot, "Boat Builders," "The Whalers," "Mickey's Trailer, and "The Brave Little Tailor." This set comes with a booklet. This has a letter from Leanord Maltin and a list of features and "Treasures." The final thing is a postcard size lithograph. It is a reproduction of the 1935 theatrical poster for the short "The Band Concert." All of this comes packaged in a tin case. This set is limited. There are only 150,000 copies. So get yours before it runs out. You and your children will love "Mickey Mouse in Living Color." It is a "Treasure," for any DVD collector...