There have been several great films that focused on the life of one boy genius.  Rushmore, Little Man Tate, and Searching for Bobby Fischer are prime examples.  These three movies did three very important things. First,  each one looked at the child genius with sensitivity, doing an excellent  job of focusing on the tenuous aspects of childhood, while attempting to  fathom and apprehend the child's genius.  Two, the films show that these  geniuses are, foremost, human beings who have the same basic, fundamental  needs all humans have--the need for love, contact, undertanding,  friendship, and intimacy.  And three, they show that ultimately, what makes  a human being special is not how smart, talented, or exceptional he is, but  how he conducts his life in relation to his fellow human beings and how  compassionate and caring he is.  Needless to say, these films are exemplars  of their genre.  And Goodwill Hunting is their peer.  
Will Hunting is a  genius, not on the order of an MIT student, but on the order of Einstein,  Mozart, Shakespeare.  On the surface, Will comes off as tough, rough, cool.  He is good looking, fast-talking, and seemingly brimming with confidence.  When forced into therapy by court order, Will aviscerates his therapists  with a mixture of brashness, brilliance, and utter lack of respect.  While  being a genius, he is also a miscreant who commits petty thefts and  assaults in his spare time.  He is a strange mix of savant and savage.  Underneath the outward manifestation of his genius, underneath his  rebellious nature and irreverence is a scared kid in need of compassion and  human connection. And that is what Goodwill Hunting is essentially  about--one boy's attempt to make human contact after bearing years of  mental, emotional, and physical abuse. 
The genius aspect of Will is  almost ancillary, but is important because it allows another important  message to be sent--great intelligence does not designate a person as  great.  This message is sent home in many ways throughout the movie, but is  most aptly illustrated when Will embarrasses a pompous Harvard boy in a  debate. This scene was definitely one of the most gratifying scenes on  film.  
In sum, Goodwill Hunting is a very good film.  It is funny,  humane, uplifting, and touching.  The acting is very strong, the writing is  very good, and the character of Will is complex, smart, snide, vulnerable,  and highly likable.  If you like films that make you feel excited about  being human, then watch this film.  If you want something a bit more  commercial, watch Titanic.