6FU was not a show about death, it was how people dealt with the hardship of the rut that life can give to you. The only time when people look and face their lives was when someone died. For the Fisher family, who spent their existence around death, their realizations as to what to do with their lives, bad and good choices, came much slower to others.

My breakdown of the characters:

Nate: Brenda summed him up pretty well at how convincing he was when all he wanted in life was for someone to make him feel and seem like a better person

David and Keith: I felt their relationship all through the show was forced and labored. It wasn't until this last season, when all their silly drama stopped, that I could take a look at them as a couple and see what we should have seen all along.

Brenda: actually had the most growth out of all the characters. I felt she rounded out nicely considering her strange past with relationships. Mother hood will do that to you.

Ruth: She had some of the best lines out of all the characters, period. "Maybe it was an unfortunate lotion." HAHAHHA People like her are  so boxed up that it is nearly impossible to free them. I hope she found happiness.

Clare: She was my least favorite. Being an artist myself, and seeing the very distorted and completely inaccurate view of artists in the series, I just couldn't relate to her. She was so selfish, granted her age allowed for that, but I felt no pity for her at all. I get it, she had her whole life ahead of her, we are suppose to identify with that, but she was just annoying.

Rico: I thought he was cool, and had the most conflict. A young man gifted at what he does, but with no real clout in the business until he is able to fight for what he wants and gain respect. I wish they hadn't taken the usual sexual detour with him as they did with ALL THE CHARACTERS, but hey, that seems to be what people want.

The show summed up in one of the most brilliant ways I have ever seen. Looking into the future, reflecting into the past, and realizing that these five years were just that. It was a fraction of time, be it the time we were to follow, but life goes on. Not just for the Fishers but all of us.