In John McNaughton's brilliant and bone-chilling "Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer", loosely based on the true-life exploits of Henry Lee Lucas and Otis Toole, two deeply sick & troubled men go on a murderous crime-spree, their targets being primarily prostitutes. Same story here, only with a shockingly gaunt, mustachioed C. Thomas Howell as Kenneth Bianchi and Nick Turturro as his sadistic, sexually-deviant cousin Angelo.  Howell is adequate as the seemingly-wimpy and unsure Bianchi, but Turturro's performance is downright primordial.  His character is so hateful and so disgusting and so vile, it's ALMOST a chore to sit through.  I mean, Turturro plays a BRUTAL sonofabitch in this film.  He does make a very convincing psychopath.  The great Lin Shaye has a scene-stealing cameo in a showdown scene with Turturro that's worth the entire 90 minutes of this gruel-fest.  The direction by Chuck Parello ("Henry 2: Mask of Sanity") is fairly pedestrian but there are glimpses of hope that, with a few more productions under his belt, he could become an indie horror helmer to be reckoned with.  I must say, I was most impressed by the actresses in this movie (Including Natasha Melnick from "Freaks and Geeks" who, indeed, appears topless).  I mean, they really went the distance and endure some pretty harrowing and physically strenuous scenes as victims of torture and death at the hands of Bianchi and Buono.  I'm not sure how closely the events of the true story are adhered to cinematically in this version, but the tone of the film very rarely flirts with exploitation.  It's more an indifferent and somewhat FLAT approach to telling the true story of the "Hillside Strangler" murders.  I think I would have preferred a little more back story and psychological insight into the characters.  The film's characters switch gears so frequently that you really never get a grasp on what motivates them to do the horrible things they do.  I would have appreciated at least a HINT of where these homicidal tendencies came from.  Did we learn ANYTHING from Bianchi while incarcerated?