I bought this quite recently, although not from Amazon, and have since gone through all of the DVDs. I like to watch DVDs on my computer, and I came across a problem with one in season 5. My computer tells me "This disc is not formatted to play in this region." Now, I understand WMP has some problems with errors popping up about the region of the DVD, but I have selected it to play DVDs from Region 1, as it should be, and it just does not work. So what's up with that? I took a good look at my DVDs. I noticed, within season 5 at least, half of the discs are copyrighted 2004, and half of them are copyrighted 2008. It looks to me like they have mixed new DVDs with old ones. As a result, it also appears as though they may have mixed up the regions, considering one of them won't even work. Another issue I have: quite a few of my discs have minor scratches on them. Not too much to worry about since it appears as though all the other discs work fine, but I do not expect any scratches at all on a set of never-opened DVDs.
It is hard for me to give a low rating on this set, because the content itself is amazing. Angel was a great show, and it is one that I have watched over and over again dozens of times and I am still not sick of it. However, it bothers me that the Series has been re-released as brand new in 2010, and I have 6-year-old DVDs in my set, including one DVD that won't even play at all.

Let me restate: this review is not specifically about the show. This is my second-favorite show of all time next to Buffy, and I would give the series 5/5 stars. The characters are great, the plots are great, the dialogue is great. My rating of 3 stars is for the poor repackaging of the box set. I have since taken the set back to get a replacement. All the disks work in my new set, but they still appear to be a compilation of different years and there are still minor scratches on a few of the disks. Luckily, the scratches in this box have not caused playback issues, but it is still frustrating to see when someone thinks they are buying something new.