Now, I obviously see a lot of comparisons of The Pianist to The Schindler's List. These are probably only two images of holocaust Americans seem to have been exposed to on the silver screen so no wonder (which in itself is pretty sad). Not going into the discussion which one is closest to the historical reality, one must say that these are two very different movies despite the subject matter. They are different because the directors are different. Look at Polanski's movies, especially his best early period (to name Knife in the Water at least). Polanski is an observer of the reality. Yes, think of this lonely child wondering the streets and trying to survive like he did and looking at the world with attention and sometimes fear. That really is reflected in his movies. He is a great documentarian so to speak of the story he tells us about. He does not develop the characters, does not go into their motivations and internal struggles. He lets us observe. That is why he maybe critisized for being removed from the story and "cold." I disagree. I love Polanski and I love a lot of his movies (and hate a lot of them as well) but he has a certain way of telling the story. From this perspective, "The Pianist" is great. And obviously I loved the fact that unlike so many American movies, this is a movie about a regular person, not a hero, not a bad guy but someone just like you or me (yes, a great pianist of course!) a decent person trying to survive the madness and horror of history - being helped and being screwed by others at the same time. In this way he is an everyman. I did enjoy that. I did enjoy the portrayal of Warsaw (the city I was born and raised in and which was leveled be the Nazis - and by the way, he was the only director who ever thanked people of Warsaw for their patience during the shooting as many streets had to be closed) but I was not thrilled by the cinematography. But yet again, this is not his style. He is not a Gone-With-The-Wind-larger-than-life imagery. This is again not a review of Schindler's List but comparisons are inevitable. SL, which I give 5 stars as well and make it a must see movie as well, is much more of an American picture. There has to be a "human spirit prevails" and happy ending and some long unrealistic speaches etc ect. That's the target audience and that's what they are used to. They look for closure and something uplifting. I can understand that. Besides that SL, while being very different from The Pianist, is a great movie. It has a phenomenal cinematography (I just can't wait for a DVD release, what's up with that?!), some breathtaking and powerful moments and most of all great character development. Ralph Finnes role is a masterpiece of its own. He is so incredibly believeble and horrifying. The change happening in Schindler. SL pays more attention to detail, makes better use of terrain and supporting characters. All this makes for a great movie. Yet, a movie very much in a hollywood style. It uses points to get the message, The Pianist is much more linear in conveying the story (should we say as life is...). That is why some may criticize it as being monotoneous. Well, if it is, so are our lives. Definitely the best movie of the year (which means nothing considering the competition). Go see it and judge it for yourself. Now I expect some bad movie from Mr. Polanski. He seems to be true to this good/bad/good pattern for years now.