Attention to visual detail and absolutely spot-on vignettes make this as perfect a film as I've seen in my 42 years.

Schmidt's house, Schmidt's wife, Schmidt's corner office, Schmidt's paperwork, Schmidt's daughter - it becomes clear that none of them were ever his own. By its nature, you can't own your work in a corporation. But it was by his own hand that Schmidt forfeited ownership and a sense of stewardship over his personal life.

Schmidt goes to visit the future in-laws and we discover the things Schmidt in fact does own - thriftiness, cleanliness and conventionality, politeness and graciousness, belief that it is virtuous to win and excell rather than just participate. We also see these virtues turn to dust when this thrifty Boy Scout turns into a tightwad, conventionality belies a poverty of creativity, cleanliness fosters a messy revolt, and politeness masks a smoldering discontent that can never quite find a way to dissipate.

Schmidt also wrestles with a sexual drive that has no place to go. He is explosively and inappropriately macho with a stranger that expresses tenderness and clinical concern, yet he's alarmed and modest when confronted with too much closeness and disclosure by his future family members.

What is appropriate and when have you crossed over the boundaries? That's what this movie is about. What are you really allowed in life? What can you take for yourself? What should you leave well enough alone? These are big and satisfying questions to chew on.

Schmidt's daughter, too, is tortured by those same questions. She loses the one parent that validated her dreams and bucks her family's unspoken wish for her to embrace conventional virtue (which we know died somewhere in the '70s here on the East Coast, but still limps along somewhere in Nebraska). She faces her father's infantile provocations and emotional blackmail, his feeble attempts at forcing a closeness he never bothered to forge in her youth.

I came away from the movie satisfied, yet unsatisfied. What would happen to Schmidt and his daughter after the credits rolled through? Would his one small act of generosity to an orphan (and more than anything, Schmidt is an orphan himself)  foster more than one magic moment for Schmidt? I don't know.

I would buy this movie for my mother, I'd love for her to see it. But I won't. It hits wayyyy too close to home.