I have this exact version of the DVD (a 3-disc set as pictured here), and I have to voice some pretty major complaints:
1. There are NO subtitles - not even English for the hearing impaired!
2. The sound editing is horrible! I'm not sure if this is a flaw for the movie in general or just the mix on this particular DVD, but there were several times when the musical score was playing so loud that it was nearly impossible to understand what the characters were saying. I have a top-notch 5.1 surround system, and I tried it with surround and with only the TV speakers. Either way it was a horrible sound mix that made it hard to make out what was said.
This is forgivable for movies that at least offer you subtitles so you can "read" what the characters are saying, but with this movie you are left with no choice but to back-up and start the scene over.
3. There is no reason why this version couldn't have fit on one disk. The version sold here in Europe has the exact same technical specifications and fits nicely on one disk (all four episodes).
The only logical reason I can see for selling it this way is to squeeze more money out of the public. It could have been sold as a 2-disc set with all four episodes on one disc and the extras on the supplementary/extra one but then they would have had to cut the retail price in half.
A tragedy!
On the "film" side of things, the movie is only "ok" - not great.
The costumes, locations and sets are all nicely done, but the makeup is horrendous (at one point you can even see the glue and tape used on one of the beards as it does a close-up that should have been reshot in pickups)! The music is bad, trying too hard to be epic. The script is much to complicated and doesn't bring us into the story nearly as well as it could. (You have to know an awful lot about Napoleon to understand what's going on at times.) The acting for the main characters is adequate - and even good at times. However, the secondary characters are quite awful.
Basically, the bottom line is it's a nice-looking film (aside from bad makeup) but the story is hard to follow. On top of that, poor sound-editing and lack-of subtitles makes this a huge disappointment!
I suggest looking elsewhere unless you are absolutley insistant on seeing a so-called "complete" film on the life of arguably one of the greatest powerful leaders this world has ever known.