To really enjoy this movie, you have move beyond the obvious.

Within in the first 10 mins, I was disappointed. The chronology is a joke. And the set up of the major characters is laughable.

Since when are Arthur and Lancelot the same age? And the 15yrs later thing would make Arthur around 25, 27 at the very most (given the approx age of the kid in the beginning). Clive Owen is young looking for his age (I guess), but c'mon.!!! And didn't Romans require 20-25 years of service?

Needless to say, as a retelling of the Arthurian myth, this movie is substandard.

This has nothing to do with Arthur as Roman. It's about trying to mesh that early 5th century myth with the Medieval French details. "Lancelot", "Dagonet", etc...Those names just scream medieval French.

Guinevere's character came across as an after-thought and frankly, could have been left out completely. Especially given Knightley's lack of chemistry with the two male leads.

HOWEVER....

If you look at this movie as telling a story of men caught between honor, duty, loyalty, friendship and the longing to be "free" and finding their place, this is a great movie.

Others have described the main performances as wooden and lacking

emotion. But given that these are men who have spent 15+ years killing other men up close and personal, as their duty - Men taken from their homes as children and taught to kill - How much emotion can we expect?

I saw this lack of emotion as men who had grown used to distancing themselves from the world around them. And who had become just plain tired of the killing (obvious in their longing to be free).

Clive Owen played this brilliantly. Every so often there's a glimpse of the turmoil beneath and we watch as he struggles to bring it under control.

Watch the actors and their faces. It is the subtleties of their

performances that provide the passion and make this movie. Moreover, even these "good guys" aren't so black and white. And that makes them all the more believable.

This is an action movie first and foremost, and one of the best kind. NOT a "history". (good thing there isn't much dialogue, cuz the script sucks big time.)

Overall, one I will add to my collection.