Any well read and well educated traditional Catholic thinking about buying this movie... save your cash. If you're looking for a good, clean, harmless "religious themed" movie you can enjoy, you're more likely to end up by tearing your hair out or at least shaking your head sadly at the screen the whole picture. It may be clean, but it's neither good nor harmless in terms of it's theology.

This movie underlines the religious attitude that has created (or at least heavily compounded) in the Catholic Church a horrendous rift. The issue? That sappy, soft, sentimental viewpoint of papally condemned (prior to the last few popes) ecumenism, which is prevalent throughout this whole film. That error condemned by the Catholic Faith, that "all religions are equal/good/can get you to heaven just as well." (ERRORS CONDEMNED BY POPE PIUS IX in his Syllabus of Errors)

This movie reduces missionary work to sappy, sentimental human-relief efforts, totally ignoring the objective truth taught by the one, true religion of the one, true God, and the fact that all being subjects of the same God, the thing of primary importance is not whether everyone is happy and has a full belly here below, but rather where that person will be going for all eternity because of how they live and believe.

This movie eloquently touts that very error (ecumenism) in a poisonously attractive form... a kind and loving Catholic priest, who can put aside "unreasonable, ugly, mean and hurtful truth" to get cozy with teachers of a rival religion... wholly without qualms that they've come to undermine his missionary work. In fact... this movie portrays a complete lack of interest in converting people at all as a plus, unless by conversion you mean getting the love and esteem of human beings precisely for NOT bothering to try to convert them. (Which is okay for laypeople, but not for a Catholic missionary whose very purpose in going ANYWHERE is precisely to convert people.) He doesn't care that people have come to poison and damn with error those souls he supposedly came to save, so long as he's good friends with those who are there to damn them?

If you're not Catholic, or you really believe that reality is as versatile as fantasy (so that error is equal to truth), then you will probably watch this movie, smile, and have warm fuzzy feelings about everybody throwing ideas out the window in lieu of a pleasant luncheon where ideals are left on the hat rack with one's umbrella. If you are a traditional Catholic who has ever suffered to adhere to an eternal truth that doesn't bend to man's whims... keep your money, and save yourself the pain and insult of watching this.

"All of us getting together" is NOT a good thing, if it's to get together, forget about the truth God has given us, and so to all fall happily into hell. Charity is a beautiful thing, but heresy is not. Heresy damns souls, which is precisely why Catholic missionaries went out into the world, century after century, and even gave their lives in tortures to save people from it. This movie is full of overtones which praise, idolize and promote ecumenical heresy, under the guise of charity, in this case falsely so called. (For what charity is it to fill a man's belly and let him go happily to hell with a head and heart full of heresy?)

If the church still had a blacklist, this could've been on it twice. Catholic missionaries (until perhaps very recent modern times) were not purely "relief workers in cassock" (though you could write volumes on their contributions in that department all the same). Anyone who has ever read a book of martyrs knows that many a priest went to a horrible death for no other reason than to save... that is to convert... souls. This movie is a slap in the face of every one of them, and the triumph of modern man's schizophrenic disassociation from objective truth in the name of warm fuzzy feelings.