There are some spoilers in this review.

Aron and I just finished watching Vexille, an anime movie from the creators of Appleseed, which was released in Japan two years ago. The artistic styling is atypical of most anime, somewhere between traditional animation and CG animation. At first, I found it a little jarring, but quickly acclimated and found it highly enjoyable.

Vexille is aesthetically pleasing, very beautiful. While it suffers from the typical unmovable hair that plagues any anime (everyone in anime must invest in vats of hair gel), the robots have weight, the humans are expressive and the landscapes are breathtaking.

The basics of the story are these: Japan led the advancement of technology and began experimenting with cybertech. Terrified by the humanitarian ramifications of human androids, the UN forbade further research. Japan opposed the restriction and isolated themselves from the rest of the world. For ten years, no one has seen or heard from Japan, except for robotic exports from their largest technology company, Daiwa. When a Japanese diplomat calls a meeting and kills many of the remaining world leaders, the American militant group SWORD is dispatched to infiltrate Japan and find out what's happened in the last decade.

Some highlights: A limping gimp chase, huge metal sandworms, a tasteful love triangle and a pretty epic sacrifice.

Especially in contrast with our last anime purchase, Le Chevalier D'Eon, Vexille was a pleasant surprise. The story was strong, the voice-acting was solid and the dramatic execution was very good. There were a few cheesy lines, but just as many witty ones. I didn't cry, but I was choked up a few times. The romantic subplot was well-played, but didn't detract from the primary storyline. Usually, anime romances leave me cold. Best of all, it ended well. Endings are the hardest part and, most often, where anime looses me. I always end up wondering if something got lost in translation.

A vague review? A little. Vexille's plot twists a couple of times. The twists are good, but not surprising enough to let me say much about them without tipping over from review to spoiler. But if you like Anvil of Tears at all, then I expect you share at least some of my tastes. If you have the chance to see Vexille, I suggest you do so. It's a good trade: two hours of your time for a very good story.

Oh, yeah. The action is good, too. I almost forgot to mention it. I'm not much of an action buff and I rely on Aron to give our novels a little spice in that arena. When Aron says the Vexille action was good, I believe him absolutely.