There remain only a handful of videos of Maria Callas in performance. This Paris, 1958 debut is one of the most important, compelling, and satisfying.  The evening begins with three operatic selections in concert: from NORMA, Casta Diva; from IL TROVATORE, D'amor sull-ali rosee and the subsequent Miserere, and from BARBER OF SEVILLE, Una Voce Poco Fa.  These are all performed with deep insight and characterization that one would expect of a fully staged and complete opera performance. The gestures, facial expressions and attitudes that Callas uses, telegraph to the viewer immediately why this woman was and is still today a one of a kind genius of vocal and visual dramatic expression.  No one with the possible exception of Renata Scotto has begun to achieve the total involvement and commitment on stage which seemed to be second nature to Callas. Some may quibble about her voice and although admittedly in good voice, this evening finds Callas in slightly less pristine voice than I'm sure she would have wished on such an important occasion.  However, after the Bellini, Callas seems at her vocal best with more vocal flashes of color and changes of mood than one can imagine in any present day singer.  For example, just try and imagine anyone today jumping from the dramatic suffering of Leonora's Misere to the coy, capricious and comic coloratura roulades of Rosina's aria in a matter of minutes, as Callas does with total success.  After this first half of the evening is over, we are treated to the complete and fully staged second act of Puccini's TOSCA -- with nonother than Tito Gobbi in the role of Scarpia.  Although costumed and quaffed rather dubiously, Callas gives a totally authoritative performance by which all others should be judged.  What a shame no footage of an Act I or Act III exists. (Another Act II from Covent Garden in 1964 exists and will be released shortly on EMI DVD.)  Admittedly, this video is from 1958 and in Black and White, so don't expect to be stunned by visual quality. DO expect to be stunned by WHAT you are watching rather than the quality of the actual telecast. Enough praise cannot be given to EMI for releasing this concert, her Hamburg concerts from 1959 and 1962 and the upcoming Convent Garden material from 1962 and 1964.  Collect them all; listen, watch and learn.