I admit I'm a few years late to this particular party, but I definitely feel the need to post a review to give a nod of recognition to this excellent series. Welcome to the NHK is part comedy/part drama. Like all the best comedy it is meaningful, and like the best drama it doesn't take itself too seriously. Sato is a hikikomori: (I hope I spelled that right) basically an unemployed hermit who fears the pressures of the outside world. How Sato reacts to the outside world is a source of most of the humor.

First, I'd like to rave a little about the characters. ALL the noteworthy characters in this show have problems of some sort. Sato's problem is the focus of the show and being a rather self-absorbed person his perspective doesn't allow him to learn that much about the people around him. As a viewer we can empathize with Misaki and Yamazaki (God, I hope I'm getting these name's right) his two closest friends. To avoid spoiling too much let's just say that Misaki is a young girl who apparently wants to help Sato overcome his problems for no reason other than kindness and Yamazaki is an Otaku with rage issues.

The animation is excellent with a few exceptions. A couple shows look terrible and it makes me wonder if they intentionally designed them that way because it is sooo different than the rest of the show. The music is amazing and really sets the mood of the series. (I especially like "Dancing Baby Human" the ending song for the first disk or so)

The high point of the show, however, is not so much the things that happen to the characters, (although some rather extreme situations do crop up) but how the characters react to their situations. Sato's first reaction to any situation tends to be addiction and escapism and it's easy to see why. The introspective sessions which follow these boughts of hedonist revelry tend to be brutal and tainted with what can only be called psychosis. Misaki is a puzzle at first, but the seeds of her character are planted from the start. The neighbor and best friend Yamazaki is much more complex than he appears. His abrasive behavior and misogynistic rants are a product of real pain, and the writers do a great job of making his character sympathetic despite his many faults.

If you're interested in character studies and psychology (the "dream analysis" scene is the funniest thing I have seen in ages) than buy this series immeadiately. Some people will be put off by the numerous reverances to "deviant" Japanese culture, but it wouldn't be a very honest show if factors like internet pornography and hentai games didn't enter into it at some point.