Plot Summary: A crime gang robs a Las Vegas casino disguised as Elvis impersonators.

Reason for the Rating: Strong violence, sexuality and language.

Watching 3,000 MILES TO GRACELAND I have to admit felt guilty for enjoying a movie that had so few redeeming qualities. Directed by Demian Lichtenstein, it sports an all-star cast including Kurt Russell, Kevin Costner, Courteney Cox Arquette, Christian Slater, David Arquette, and Ice-T. It's a shoot-em-up flick, filled with gratuitous violence.

In the movie Costner plays Murphy, a guy who assembles a band of criminals to make a hit on the casino during an Elvis convention. Each member of the gang dresses like Elvis to fit in with the menagerie of impersonators visiting Vegas. The robbery is successful--and also allows the director to shoot excessive amounts of gunfire resulting in the demise of slot machines, drinking glasses, gaudy mirrors, and cops.

After the gang escapes the casino with over $3 million (and just one casualty despite the incredible hail of bullets) the gang falls victim to its own greed. The rest of the movie consists of Murphy and cohort Michael (played by Russell) chasing the other to retrieve the money the gang members keep stealing from each other.

Meanwhile, Michael develops a love interest in Cybil (Cox Arquette), who is the Mom of a bright but crime-waiting-to-happen type of child. Eventually Michael's love of Cybil and her son results in him having to choose between love and money.

As I said, the movie is entertaining at times, with plot twists and nonstop action. One bright spot is the cameo of rapper Ice-T, playing a hired gun protecting Murphy. His acting is a delightful mix of street-wise meanness and humor.

The fatal weakness, though, is the director's desire to spend most of the movie creating redundant scenes of violence. Yes, I enjoyed the movie to an extent, but I couldn't recommend it. Mainly what captured my attention was watching this group of all-star actors attempting to salvage a weak script.

Nappaland.com Recommends: Great Actors + Weak Script = Mostly a Waste of Time.

After the Show...If members of your family choose to view this movie, use these questions to spark discussion about it afterward:

---What positive qualities, if any, did you see in the main characters?

---Do you think excessive violence as portrayed in this movie lead people to a cheap view of human life? Explain your answer?

---Why do you suppose so many people like to impersonate Elvis? Whom would you most like to impersonate?

CP