Rocky II was the much anticipated sequel to one of the greatest movies of all-time - "Rocky".  It continues the story of local Philadelphia Club Fighter Rocky Balboa as he makes a second improbable attempt to capture the World Heavyweight Boxing Championship.  The nice thing about this story is it basically picks up where the original movie left off.  It has all of the same charm of the main characters as well as with some of the lesser characters.  However, it does have some fundamental pitfalls and as a result it does make this sequel fall short of the original classic.

This may be a bit of a spoiler: Rocky II picks up following Rocky's controversial split decision loss to Apollo Creed.  Many people felt that Rocky should have won the fight.  As part of his commitment for his love to Adrian, Rocky decides to retire from the ring.  Rocky marries Adrian and plans to set in for a life of living of endorsements and commercials of his name.  In short time, Rocky realizes he cannot handle the world of endorsements and commercials (Rocky cannot read).  Meanwhile, Adrian becomes pregnant and the bills start to mount up.  With public and financial pressures, Rocky agrees to a rematch with Apollo.  Rocky's head just isn't into the fight - especially when Adrian goes into a coma following the baby's premature birth.  Eventually Adrian recovers and encourages Rocky to win.  The movie ends with Apollo and Rocky's classic rematch - and the outcome is very predictable.

One thing that flaws this movie immediately is the predictable outcome.  One thing that made Rocky I such a great movie was that Rocky lost the fight.  Even though Rocky lost the fight, he had accomplished his goal of going the distance and found love with Adrian.  With a rematch as a theme for this movie, it makes the outcome much more predictable - and you can guess what happens at the end of this movie.

Another problem is that Rocky II has a tough act to follow in terms of the ending.  The ending of Rocky I has to be considered one of the greatest in movie history.  Who can forget the 14th round in Rocky I?  And the scene where Rocky is calling "Adrian" as the Ring Announcer is announcing the decision is as emotional as it gets.  Rocky II makes some mistakes right off the bat.  For starters, Paulie and Adrian are not at ringside for this fight.  Rocky leaves Paulie "in charge" at home because Adrian is still recovering from her hospital stay.  I thought the dynamics of Paulie and Adrian in Rocky I in the Spectrum were spectacular:  The part where Paulie lifts the ring rope to let Adrian in the ring is classic.  While I understand that you can't repeat that for Rocky II, I still would have found a way to bring Paulie and Adrian to the arena.  When I first saw this movie, I was waiting for Adrian to leave the house and go to the arena - it never happens.  In terms of the Boxing the Choreography is much weaker than the first movie.  The boxing sequences in the rematch in Rocky II seem less realistic than the sequences in Rocky I.  They use a "double knockout" to end the fight - to me that seems like a page out of a Wrestling Pay Per View than a realistic fight.

Another thing that drags this movie out is the part with Adrian in the hospital.  While I understand it was central to the storyline, it was way too drawn out.

The charm of all of the characters is still there.  Rocky is still very much a street-wise character.  Adrian - still shy is showing some signs of coming out of his shell.  Paulie is still the same classic character that he was in Rocky I.  I do think Apollo and Mickey's characters - while good, did lose a little bit of an edge.  One character who I was a fan of was mob-boss Tony Gazzo (played by Joe Spinell) - he is back.  Although Rocky isn't in the loan shark business, Gazzo still considers him a friend.  When Gazzo's character was written out of the remaining Rocky movies, it definitely lost something.  I was disappointed to see the omission of the characters of Mike (Mickey's right hand man), Gazzo's Limo Driver, and Jergens the Fight Promoter (the actor Thayer David did pass away before the sequel).

One character that I do like is the role of the Director played by John Pleshette.  Pleshette has a real knack for playing compulsive neurotics (i.e. Richard Avery on "Knots Landing") and in Rocky II he basically plays that type of character.  Although his part is short, he does a great job.

Rocky II will take place on the Streets of Philadelphia - and that is good.  I do think the "Rocky Run" is far superior in Rocky II than in Rocky I - particularly when all of the kids join Rocky on his run.  "Gonna Fly Now" is once again the music for the "Rocky Run".

The music is also up to the same standards of Rocky.  Bill Conti is once again the driving force behind the music.  Probably the most forgotten Bill Conti track in all of the Rocky movies is the theme from Rocky II called "Redemption".  This is a powerful tune that really is used well in the beginning and closing credits of the movie.

Despite some of the shortcomings, this movie is still a very good movie.  It still preserves much of the charm and flavor of the first movie - and it will keep you interested until the very end.  There are also plenty of memorable quotes and one-liners that you will want to play over and over again.  Following this movie, Stallone would change the formula for "Rocky" movies making it difficult to capture the magic of the first two.