BIG DISCLAIMER: HALLOWEEN III HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH MICHAEL MYERS!!!! Okay, now with that out of the way, you may be able to enjoy this film for what it is without trying to compare it to other Halloween movies. It has a good storyline and is well-acted.
While making "Halloween III", the filmmakers had the idea of releasing a new Halloween film each year with a different storyline, and "H3" was the first, and sadly last film under that concept. It bombed at the box office and was widely trashed by fans, mainly because it veered off the Michael Myers path. The backlash forced producers to go back to the tired slasher motif for future "Halloween" films, none of which were worth the film they were printed on. "Halloween III" would've fared better if they simply titled it "Season of the Witch". And for those who wonder where the witch was in the film, chief antagonist Conal Cochran is a Warlock (i.e. male witch).
The film is very Cthulhu-esque in its mood. The plot is very creepy. Conal Cochran (portrayed nicely by Dan O'Herlihy) is a mask &amp; novelty magnate, who more or less controls a small town in California. He's also a Warlock, part of a long line of Irish Druids, and is not happy with the commercialization of Hallow's Eve. So what better way to keep his tradition alive than sacrificing millions of kids on Halloween night? He devises a master plan which includes to use of his masks, computer chips laced with stonehenge dust, a catchy TV commercial, and android goons who do the necessary dirty work, killing those who know too much.
Dan Challis (Tom Atkins) &amp; Ellie (Stacy Nelkin) become caught up in the scheme and are determined to find out what is behind the murder of Ellie's father, who owned a novelty store and bought masks from Cochran. The story unfolds as they do their detective work, climaxes at the Silver Shamrock factory, and ends all too ironically. It's not a gore-fest, but more of a thinking-man horror film. The plot slowly dawns on our heroes &amp; viewers as we go.
I have two  complaints. The storyline moves very slowly. It's a good plot, but could have been better if the plot unfolded quicker. My second complaint is the inclusion of the androids. The story would've been much creepier if they were simply human cronies or zombies. Overall, it's a decent horror film and a nice break from the slasher genre. Give it a shot if you need a break from the gore-in-your-face horror film.