I have read GQ and other men's fashion magazines for the last 20 years.  No single person is mentioned as a men's style icon more often than Steve McQueen, and this movie defines his style most clearly.  What I think that is not often understood, is why his style is so beloved.  It is minimalist, yes, but also, this is someone not playing the middle class America game.

1) He lives in a small apartment.  The furniture is ordinary, with a few hip 60's touches. (Watch for the picture over his bed, his paisley bathrobe, the cool paper hanging lampshade, and a couple of hippie style items on the walls).  You get the impression he owns about six pairs of clothes at most.  He eats cheap frozen dinners (except for the occasional date at the cool San Fran Restaurant).  He is not wasting this time and life keeping up with the Jones's.

2.)  He is not climbing the career ladder.  On this case, he doesn't give a thought to politics.  He is not chasing the American ideal of success.

3.)  Look closely and you will see his car, the most famous in any movie ever, is a olive drab color.  Not candy apple bright red.  It is a Mustang, a symbol of blue collar America.  It is dusty, and he parks it in the street, not a garage.  He does not inspect it for door dings every time he goes out to it.  It has dents in it.  You get the impression he doesn't spend his free time polishing and waxing it.

4.)  He doesn't spend his time chasing money.  He spends it on his job, trying to do what he thinks is right, not what is good for office politics and promotion.

5.)  His clothes are 60's pre-hippie fashion perfection (look for the extremely tapered legs, the suede loafers, and of course the famous tweed blazer and blue turtleneck).

In summary, I think it is funny that people idolize McQueen's personal style in this movie and yet they don't realize why.  It is not just the stoicism, or minimalism.  It is the old fashion American values (think Old West).  Just something to think about as you watch one of my favorite movies of all time.