I hate to rain on everyone's tornado here, but to me--the special effects of "Twister", however formidable, are undone by a juvenile script and characters who range from smug (Paxton, Hunt) to shrill (the incessantly whacky band of storm chasers). Ironically, the only character that came close to being "sympathetic" for me was the one I was supposed to hate--Jami Gertz (as Paxton's square fianc&eacute;). Never mind that she is supposed to be Mrs. Wrong--uptight, unadventurous, etc. Her intelligent portrayal of a not-so-intelligent woman gives the film its only honest laughs as well as its only pathos, and I'll take her any day over Hell-Yeah Helen and Damn-Straight Bill, or their band of sycophantic cheerleaders who practically shake pom-poms and do victory splits every time either character speaks.

Their Greek Chorus-like function, I suppose, is to remind us who we're rooting for, but personally it turns me off to be dictated to quite so transparently. Don't TELL me who to like--MAKE the characters likable and I'll like them, okay? The whole rowdy ensemble is thrust with such gusto down our throats, one hates them on principle alone.

That bitch-fest aside, the twisters are obviously the main attraction here, and they produce a few powerful moments. Take the atmospheric opening scene-in which the cyclone is personified as a malevolent predator, like an evil Santa Claus who instead of leaving gifts, comes to rob you of that which you love. The idea of the twister as a character is  especially effective, but the film makers never really carry that through, and so the film misses its chance to be poetic. However, spectacle is the compensation, and  in much the same way as the sinking ship was the payoff in "Titanic", the whirling dirt funnels--whether they are characters or just random vacuums-- are still exciting and are the real stars of "Twister". And as long as they're wrecking lots of havoc,  the movie cannot be totally sunk by it's cast, script, or even the misguided direction that constantly threatens to pull them all into its suck zone.