There's a lot to be said for "Hannibal".  The only word that summarizes this movie well is "botched".  Setting aside the problems of typical sequelitis, this movie suffers exceptionally from the burdens of such enormous expectations and the breadth of its foundations.
To begin with, the source book "Hannibal" by Harris has many advantages not available to the film:  the luxury of extravagant description and elaboration; superior manipulation of time, mood and tension; more intricate character development; and utter lack of input from thrice-damned Hollywood test audiences.  These tools aren't available to the film - we never see the fully developed contrast between Verger and Lecter.  We are never exposed to the depth of Lecter's brilliance or the heights of his evil.  Neither is Verger's twisted being allowed to fester in our minds as an offence to all that is decent.  As a result, the mood in the film suffers horribly, and what I feel is the crucial plot to "Hannibal" is lost.
The directing is also horrendous.  I find it hard to believe that the same man who directed "Alien", "Blade Runner" and "Gladiator" could have so mishandled a movie.  He relies on gore instead of suspense, surprise instead of tension, and complexity instead of intrigue.  There is no attempt to establish the proper moods at any point in the film.  The movie is stilted, trite, and lacking in the elements that make a really GOOD thriller.  Thanks for nothing, Ridley.
Just as a side note:  I am a pathologist.  I handle human tissue on a regular basis.  I realize it doesn't come up that often in movies, but do you suppose it is too much to ask that you folks do your homework, and try to come up with a fake brain that LOOKS like brain?
This movie does have a few bright points:  Moore, Hopkins and Oldman.  While the movie is generally poorly executed, I find myself taking comfort in the superb acting from the cast.  Moore proved herself equal to the task of playing Clarice Starling in Foster's shadow.  She managed to convey the hopeless frustration of a woman disillusioned by that she held dear with amazing virtuosity.  To wax at all on Hopkins' or Oldman's performance is to damn them with faint praise - they were simply magnificent. 
All in all, this is a movie that should never have been made.  There was simply no way to accomodate the inspirational material in a manner to do it justice AND live up to the expectations of a sequel to "Silence".  Add to that the ridiculous oversight of Hollywood backers ("We don't LIKE this ending.  Change it."  Those maggots probably wanted to change the ending of "Casablanca" too) and you have a movie that never fails to disappoint.