The film is easily one of the best things that I have seen. The story flows perfectly to keep the audience's attention and the actors do a tremendous job of telling an amazing story that deals with an incredible range in character and emotion. As much as I love this movie, it's simply not for everyone. Don't watch if you think you may be distracted by outside influences and it's certainly not a film that would be enjoyed by a couple on a "date night". "I'm Still Here", breaks down the walls between reality/fiction and the complexities of being a celebrity, and it ain't always pretty...

Preface
I want to start off by saying, that I have never been a huge Joaquin Phoenix fan. I am not saying that he isn't a terrific actor, only that I wouldn't necessarily go out of my way to see one of his films, just because he was in it. I, like so many others probably thought he was a bit of a weird guy, only because he has played so many strange characters very well. He was the villain in Gladiator, the older son in the Mel Gibson alien movie and I recently recognized him as a kid in some older movie. Joaquin seems to be typecast as a withdrawn or troubled person and I must apologize for formulating the opinion that he was probably like that in real life, although I haven't verbalized that opinion previously.

I knew very little about the months this was being filmed and wasn't exposed to celebrity gossip, the rumor mill and didn't know that Joaquin was interested in quitting acting.
I am not someone who generally cares about the lives of celebrities, their opinions and certainly don't follow a bit of celebrity gossip. I'm may have heard something about the David Letterman thing, just didn't pay any attention or give it two seconds worth of thought. I think someone mentioned the documentary on a social network since it seemed moderately familiar when I picked it up.

This is the first time that I have felt compelled to write a review of a movie. I am not a writer by profession, I do however write creatively on a regular basis for recreation. I also don't study film, nor am I a critic of any sort. I have nothing to gain or credit to lose by expressing my thoughts on this film and I'm going to be as real as I can be, because the film merits my honesty. That being said, it's the "most" real thing that I have seen in a movie and I have watched more than my fair share.

The story really could have gone either way. Joaquin could have very easily been a successful recording artist and Casey did a tremendous job of capturing the events as they unfolded. When you are dedicated to telling the truth or portraying the truth on film you are bound to have things that are difficult for people to watch, but seem less `real' when they are preconceived about the premise of the film. The same is true of the events in the story, people formulated opinions about what Joaquin was trying to do and it added to the reasons that he wasn't successful. A universal truth that goes along the same lines is thinking that you can do no wrong, because we both know that you are bound to screw up eventually and having that attitude is a mistake all around.

Joaquin is a dreamer with vision. I immediately recognized that he was trying to go beyond himself and show people that he's more than just and actor, evident by him saying "his goal was to bring out, what was inside of him". I would be willing to bet that Phoenix has always felt like an artist, who is talented in many different arts but always struggled to discover his true art. Most artists know the one thing that they are really great at creating and since Joaquin had a connection to "hip-hop as much as anyone has a connection to a type of music", making it reasonable that he would express himself through that medium. The deleted scene in which JP discusses the "origins" of rap and hip hop was extraordinary to say the least and I doubt that a lot of people could have gone into that much detail about the form of music. I gained a tremendous amount of respect and saw his depth as a human being for making this film. I can't imagine anything that would take more guts and determination to do and I have no doubt that this film will be widely studied and interpreted.

Who among us can cast the first stone and say that they too have never been fed up with their jobs and being told what to do or thinking that you have a good opinion about a particular topic and no one was willing to listen or worse, make fun of you? How many times have you been publicly embarrassed and it was only a few people that saw it, yet everyone seemed to know about it? How many of you have been passed over when you clearly deserved an award and talked trash about the person who beat you out for a promotion? How many artists and visionaries have been grossly misunderstood for expressing themselves in this world? Too many if you ask me, but what do I know?

Joaquin is someone who operates on a higher plane than almost everyone else on the planet. I don't mean because of his celebrity as an actor, having a fabulous life or the illicit drug use, he is a creative genius and is trying to let the world know that it exists inside him. He's not another celebrity who burned themselves out or become a recluse, Joaquin simply got an idea in his head that sounded like the best thing in the world and had difficultly fully expressing it to the public or in a way they would be able to appreciate and understand. In a large sense, Phoenix is blossoming as a person and expanding his universe and those of us who have watched the film and get what he was trying to do, it's a unique gift that could never be duplicated. He said something like, "I'm doing more than what people expect he's capable of doing" and he is/was correct, and few can comprehend doing something like that.

Here's the problem. You have/had the right idea, but you didn't follow the right path to finding who you are as an artist and you can't take shortcuts on the path of life. I am not going to come down on you for making mistakes like others have, I will just point out a few things that needed "tweaking".

I know that it felt like the most amazing thing in the world, when you told the entertainment reporter that you were quitting acting and afterwards it must have seemed scary to think about. You are an amazingly talented and creative guy who has always had to "act" a certain way to please people. You have to do what directors say, you have to do a lot of things your agent tells you to do and act a certain way in public and are scrutinized or judged by so many people. Even though you've had opportunities in life, you haven't allowed many people to listen to what you have to say and to be judged on what you are made of as a person, not necessarily who everyone else expects you to be. All I have to say is, what's wrong with that, doesn't everyone deserve to be heard?

Watching the movie
The first time, I went in "blind" to what the film was about and paid close attention to the events as they unfolded. Before watching the second time, I watched the deleted scenes and found much of them to be thought provoking and gained a bit more insight into the project. The second time I watched with the DVD commentary and the third time I watched it from the perspective of how it could have all been improved. (The plan and execution, not the film itself)

From the very beginning I believed it all to be quite real and I was drawn in, hoping that Joaquin would be able to get his message out as he envisioned. I don't think that I have ever vested myself so entirely into a "character" and I didn't want to see him fail. My hope in seeing him find some success had nothing to do with being a fan of his body of work or even his musical vision, it was that Joaquin has passion about something other than what his work and felt compelled to pursue it with gusto. Say what you want about Joaquin, but you have to respect the effort he put into it.

The initial viewing made me feel sick to my stomach. This is going to sound a bit strange, but sick to my stomach in a good way, like it was something that I really needed to see, and hard to imagine at the same time. It was torturous and inspirational for me and it was like looking at a clip of reality and how tough life can sometimes be for people. The range of raw human emotions captured on film is simply astounding. Where else can you see someone who is completely on top of the world, believe that he would never be accepted again? Where else can you witness the creative process at its best and worst at the same time? Embarrassment, rage, determination and passion are difficult things to reproduce and I felt all those emotions as I watched. I laughed, I cried, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen and wasn't distracted by anything while watching. I felt relieved when it was over and had a more positive outlook about the film the following day.

The deleted scenes do a lot to substantiate the film as Casey envisioned and opened me up to the possibility that the events were staged and I believe some of them were scripted and/or redone. The DVD commentary is terrific and for a while, I was leaning towards believing that it could be an elaborate, brilliantly executed fictional story about a real person. I am assuming that most people were willing to "buy" the story as a hoax, publicity stunt or experimental film, but there is one thing that prevents me from falling in line, people can't act that well. It's far too real to be make-believe, and as good as an actor as Joaquin may be, he isn't that good, no one is.

The third time watching was very therapeutic me and I studied the film closely, taking note of the mistakes that were made in the process of switching careers, being a better person and how complex being a celebrity must be. The ideas expressed in this "review" are based upon my belief that most of the events are mostly true, how easily the story could have gone in a completely different direction and the personal connection I had to the film.

JP
Hey, we love you man. As friends we can forgive and forget, because people sometimes screw up, its human nature. I have personally screwed up a bunch of times that were equally embarrassing to me as your defeats were to you and I kept on pushing through, picked myself up and dusted myself off, just like the song. I promise that how ever bad it all seemed, no one is going to hold it against you. You are passionate about life and so many things that you are simply brimming over and when people have those characteristics, they have the tendency to express those feelings, often at an inappropriate time and place. It's not something to be ashamed about, nor is it something to worry about if you don't follow through on your ideas.

Don't want take any of this as talking down to you and believe me when I say that I believe you to be a highly intelligent person. I do however think that you are probably a bit ignorant about some things in this world, simply because as real as you think that you are, (relating to people, observing their behavior, etc) you have to be removed from society on many levels because of your celebrity. It's important that you recognize that fans of your acting skills, (your fans) have only seen that persona, and we both know that there is a lot more to Joaquin Phoenix. You said it yourself; you have been in a self imposed prison of characterization.

I would also bet that you were that kid in school that genuinely felt different, not necessarily because of having a famous brother and doing your own acting, just that your mind was always off somewhere else or you were drawing pictures instead of paying attention in class. Maybe you were a daydreamer and always seemed to be doing silly kid stuff that got you into trouble because you let your imagination and curiosity guide you. I would also wager that you excelled in any class that allowed you to be creative and you were most proud of those accomplishments while barely scraping by academically. None of those traits are necessarily bad to have in a kid, however they must be challenged in a different direction than regular kids.

Acting became the thing that allowed you to feel special and that you were part of something greater than yourself. At one time your career made you feel important, like it meant something in the bigger picture and gave you something to focus on other than your emotions while pretending to be someone else. I can imagine that an actor would have difficulties discovering who they are, when you are so busy portraying someone else's. Are you who you are because you were supposed to be, or are you who you are because someone else expected you to act that way and guided you towards that path?
I am not saying that there is anything necessarily wrong with the person you became, because I think you are a fun, likeable guy, and look at all the famous people who enjoy your company, the adoring fans and friends who genuinely care about you and why wouldn't they? You are an interesting character and I don't mean that in the sense of characterization. You have a way of bringing out the best in people, which is a talent in itself.

The drug use did seem a bit excessive throughout the film and I am sure you caught a lot of grief for doing so much. What people didn't point out is that the film is 6 months of video, edited down to an hour and a half and the audience is thinking its excessive for that time frame and don't see the big picture. I will say that I realize that for certain people, illegal drugs benefit them a substantial amount. Drugs can be a cure for depression, make you feel less inhibited and for a very small group of people drugs open creative centers of the brain that previously were dormant, opening them up to a world that they previously didn't know existed. In no way am I advocating drug use of any kind and feel strongly that there needs to be limits to all things of that nature. There has to be a happy medium or some middle ground because no one can operate at a peak performance if they are too high and you know there is such a thing as being too high. I personally would have been more disturbed if I saw you abusing prescription drugs and saw none of that in the film.

You are someone that needs to work, needed something to do, needs something to focus on. That's why you were an actor, it was your job, something that you did that took up a lot of your time and kept you centered and away from the laziness and kept your drug use to a much lower level. You had to study, you had to eat right, you had to constantly be getting haircuts, exercise, you had to look good on camera and spend long days and nights working. In the snow angel scene you said something like "look at the difference in me since I retired from acting", and the first thing I thought of was, "he's feeling better than he ever has, but he's getting lazy" and I think it was due to the fact that you were sitting around waiting for people to return your calls, waiting for what you knew in your mind was going to happen. It's called "hurry up and wait" and you learned it the hard way.

Performance review/ TV appearance

Local hip hop club
You studied the materials, changed and adapted, ensuring that you had the lyrics perfected and it sounded very good. I think nerves had much to do with your cadence being off, because people have the tendency to rush such things, particularly when the music starts before you are completely ready. Things always seem and sound better when you are in familiar settings and don't have a large group of people, not entirely knowing what to expect.

After the first performance Joaquin said that the audience had prejudged him and he was correct. The music wasn't something that they were programmed to listen to and the audience couldn't relate. Following the performance in the parking lot, your rap was phenomenal because you weren't nervous and I bought into it the same way that Matt did. All in all, it deserved merit and should have been a profound learning experience.

Vegas
The sound check isn't so someone can get a free show. A sound check allows the performer to know exactly what they will sound like when they are on stage and customize the audio to suit your needs.

The show seemed particularly bad, but it was more audio quality and faces of several of the audience that lead to that opinion. The camera angles and lighting weren't great but your performance was improved. Cadence was good this time.

Dave
Dave Letterman's job is to crack fun on people. He doesn't have serious conversations on his show. The character of Dave is a sharp witted comedian whose job is to make people laugh and the night you were on, he did his job well. Dude, a beard is a conversation piece, an opener, something to chit chat about and you should be able to accept any and all jokes that come your way. If you had said, "it feels cool", "I should have done it years ago", he would have been done talking about it.

I'll bet the song that had the lyrics "sitting on the couch with David Letterman" were going through your head a mile a minute.

Dave landed his joke late when he said it was unlikely that you'd perform on the show, not that it was unlikely you were pursuing a rap career.

Correct me if I am wrong, but doesn't Dave have signs that say "applause" and it's the audience's job to clap, cheer and laugh when the show wants them to? They weren't necessarily laughing at you.

The uni-bomber crack was funny, sorry but true.

The Miami club gig.
Those people were freaking spun. How can you expect them to listen to something deep?
I am sorry, but that seemed like the wrong place and wrong crowd to tell your story. The music as you were waiting to go on stage was bumping at almost a techno level and the crowd was dancing like crazy. When you are engrossed in the music as they apparently were, it stinks when they turn up the lights and the music slows.

Cool camera angles before the set, but it looked like a body on a coffin at one angle, especially if you turned it sideways. Sorry but true.

There is so much angst when you are face to face and being judged by someone in the audience acting like those guys who hang out at airports with video cameras. It's profoundly worse when you are expressing your art and they are making fun of you, literally for no other reason than you are a celebrity. Don't take it personally man, just brush it off and drive on. Anger is a wasteful emotion, it gets you all wound up in a direction that you don't want to go in and there is never a positive solution.

Something I have noticed about people at concerts with cameras is they aren't getting all the enjoyment from the moment as they could be. Maybe they got a good photo or video that they can show their friends, but aren't you there to see the band or the singer? Shouldn't they be paying attention to the music the lights, getting caught up in the vibe of being at a concert? All the people with cameras are having the LEAST amount of fun and I feel sorry for them.

I agreed with Larry who said that it was your best performance. You were ready, it was your time. You went to the sound check (which is a good idea, because you will be familiar with the stage lights and the way you sound through their speakers). It's like a practice for the main event and you dressed for the occasion. I really think the audience would have been fine hearing another song or two.

Music producer
I almost can't say enough good things about him and I am using this film as my basis for saying it. He's someone that you want to be on time to meet and if you are late or hold him up, it'll cost you some points. He isn't one for high fives or chit chats, he's there for business and you had better come with it quickly. He's someone that you talk to straight and you'd better have a plan all squared away, ready to present

He's not used to dealing with artists, he deals with performers. You recognized him as being a super smart hip-hop guy, but he is a success because he knows what sells to people. He tried to explain the theory in the first meeting when he discussed what people do in their industries. It isn't about art and true exploration, it's about putting a product out that sells and he is an expert at producing that product. He was trying to say that just because you like something, that doesn't mean others will. He knows the business of music, how to make money and something you have to know is that there are no free lunches in the world. Everything costs something and so does becoming a super cool hip hop artist.

I thought it was funny that he was flipping the TV channel and asking the other famous person in the room about his recent movie and didn't have a problem saying that another movie that he was in wasn't any good.

At the first meeting he just talked about business. The second time it was from a trying to understand you better, perspective.

You were crushed by not going immediately into the studio that you felt defeated. He didn't say that you weren't talented, just that you music needed work before it would be something that he would produce. "Play me a hit", "I need to hear a hit". I while I am not saying anything negative about your music, you should have listened to the music that he was listening to when you entered. The song was polished, layered and had repeating rhythms, just like every hit song that is played on the radio

I paid close attention to his eyes as he listened to the songs and there is no doubt that his eye movements were real and he gave the three songs a genuine listen. The first sounded good and obviously it passed the producers test because he asked to hear two more. He was also correct about the third song not being good enough and I am not entirely sure why you played it when you obviously had others that were better. That's right; I said you had others that were better. The "complication" song was the only song I heard that didn't register with me and I don't necessarily think it was the lyrics; more like the cadence didn't work. I think if he had given you some constructive criticism and broken down a few things that didn't work about the songs, you would have left with a positive outlook. I guess what they say is true, hindsight being 20/20, because you had one of the most successful record producer's ear and didn't use that opportunity to learn something.

Dude, you made it through 3 freaking plays with Combs and I can guarantee that it wasn't entirely because of who you were.

Your Friends
Anthony's bit was making Joaquin a better person, taking care of him and being a friend and I thought he did an excellent job. I am sure he is a bit strange, but who among that group isn't? I would be willing to bet that being a friend and caretaker for JP is a full time job and it's difficult to do your own thing when so much is going on with acting, making music and traveling. Where was the time for extra curricular activities when you have so much going on that you have little control over?

Anthony only did what he thought was in your best interest and hopefully you made amends on a personal level AND support whatever he is doing now. It's the right thing to do. If he did speak to the press, anything he said was an attempt at damage control. It seemed imperative to him that he do something to protect your interests

Anthony was the number one fan of what you were trying to do which was clearly at its most apparent when he said he wasn't going to laugh at you. None of it was funny and he believed in your music and what you were trying to do.

I do want to know why you told Larry to not tell puff that he was from jersey.

I say more Matt. I really liked everything he had to say, especially in the deleted scenes. He's an insightful guy and I can see why he is a friend. He's real and an asset to you, listen to him.

You weren't using your friends to the best of their abilities and potential. They all seemed like sharp people with only your best interests at heart. You need to get them to agree on an idea before you go all out. They care about you and you should expect them to be a sounding board, keep you centered. You don't need a bunch of yahoos running around doing stuff for you. They are an asset, your team and you should value their opinions and expect them to tell it to you straight, every single time.

You are too paranoid about looking bad. Sounded like such a priss, worried about what other people thought of you. Who cares if other guys are in limos and riding private jets, you are rolling with your peeps, your posse, entourage or whatever they call it these days.

Casey, random thoughts and questions
I must applaud you to the highest degree. What you have made with the film "I'm Still Here", transcends everything I have seen up to the point in which I watched it and I doubt that anything that will come close to the feelings and curiosity that your film brought me.

You can assume that I'm the person to watch this in 30 years like you mentioned in the commentary.

Is it art imitating life or life imitating art?

Fast forwarding through the party and stopping on Anthony's junk was very funny.

The only way it could be fake is if you told Joaquin that he could be a famous rapper and advised him on how he should go about doing it.

You had me fooled for a few minutes with the commentary. I actually questioned my level of conviction with your well played commentary and ability to speak. No doubt it was well thought out.

I wouldn't be bothered in the least bit if I were to find that the documentary was a fake.

Do I believe that certain scenes were added and a few were retakes and things added to make it a better story? Of course I do, but there is no way that some of those scenes were redone.

And it's fantastic to put in actual people who work for you as different fictional roles, like the computer nerd blogger at the end, giving his spin on the film. I believe the story about Edward James Olmos coming to your school as a kid and Casey remembering it and taking a couple of powerful statements away from it, but I don't believe the rationality for why he was there talking to Joaquin. Olmos was there because of the childhood story and because he was concerned with the direction Phoenix was going in. He's a compassionate guy and wanted to be able to visualize where Phoenix was coming from.

If Joaquin had succeeded and the hip hop career totally took of then you'd have a documentary of success instead of failure.

.

Portraying it as a hoax was the only way that the general public would accept such a thing. I believe much of the commentary was a brilliantly crafted tall tale to appease the audience.

You got me buying DVDs again and that wasn't an easy accomplishment. I haven't bought a movie in probably four years

EJO and my interpretation
I personally became a much bigger fan, based on his performance. What a cool guy he was to come to your place and have a real conversation with you? What a powerful speaker EJO is and what an awe inspiring story he can tell. I am really interested to know what he thought about your music. At first I thought it seemed like you were rapping and he wasn't listening, but in subsequent viewings, I saw that he was intently listening to you and thinking about what you were saying.

For a few minutes I thought that you understood the meaning of the story when you said that the story was about revealing, which could be taken as renewing or unveiling, as in "revealing one's true self". It seemed that you were very enthralled with the story and EJO and his powerful speaking abilities make it easy to be inspired. I did a search of the word "revealing" on a popular online dictionary and it took me to the definition of revelations, specifically the book of Revelations from the Bible and I thought that was pretty deep in itself.

Almost immediately, I noticed a similarity between Olmos' story and the Beatles song, "Helter Skelter", but always interpreted the song to have a different meaning...

"When I get to the bottom
I go back to the top of the slide
Where I stop and turn
and I go for a ride
till I get to the bottom and I see you again
Yeah, yeah, yeah"

I thought the story "mountaintop water drop" story was about humility or being humble.
My take on the parable was being closest to God when they are at their lowest, not getting back to the top of the mountain. When you hit rock bottom and say to yourself, "how did it all come to this?" you look for any bit of hope that you can find and when all else fails, you start praying.

Religion is much deeper for people than just cause and effect.(cause being at your lowest point and effect being that they get something positive out of it). Being at your lowest point puts things into perspective and grounds you like nothing else because the ability to change isn't in most people's programming, unless something pushes them in that direction. You could just as easily make the argument that people are more pliable when at their lowest and are looking at something to hold on to, but it's more than that. People have a need to feel connected to something greater then themselves and believing in God is as real as it gets for them and its human nature.

Being humble is one of the most difficult things in this world. You don't self glorify; you aren't supposed to think that you are the least bit better than anyone else, regardless of who they are. I don't just mean in your day to day actions, I mean in life. You being a celebrity make you have power that you didn't think that you have. How many times have you felt bad for snubbing a fan who may have simply wanted you to know they felt like they had a personal connection to you through your work or just wanted an autograph for their own collection that they would cherish for a lifetime? Not everyone is looking to profit from talking to you or taking your photo, I promise. I've always thought the reason that actors bowed after a performance was that they were humbled by the praise bestowed upon them. "Thank you, I am truly honored".

People love failure; it's the basis of most gossip and definitely the topic of most celebrity new stories and I am not entirely sure why. Are they dissatisfied with their lives and feel the need to "pile on" to someone else? Does the envy stem from a secret desire to be rich and famous or is it something to talk about like so many people talk about sports, religion or politics? "Did you hear what happened to so and so?" or" Boy, they really had it coming to them, thinking that they were so freaking cool". Some fanatics even feel compelled to take it a step further, breaking down the wall and do what they can to perpetuate the failure and its all part of human nature.

You also know there is a lot of false praise when it comes to being a celebrity. In the past when you were being interviewed on television, you had to say what other people wanted you to say and couldn't reveal your true self. Often times when being interviewed for a magazine you may stretch from the character of Joaquin and give more insight to who you are as a person, but in the end, they are going to print what they want to print and you probably don't get to approve the final copy since I am sure that's the job of a publicist. Normal conversations with regular people are probably something you are probably lacking, because most people are going to treat you as someone special, not based on your merit as a person. I can imagine that its also very difficult to feel that relationships are real, not to say that the relationships with your friends in the film aren't close to being real, just that most probably treat you as a celebrity in one sense or another and you really can't fault them, its simply the way of the world.

All passionate people go through something exactly like what you went through, (the ups the downs, the triumphs and the heartbreaks), not on the same scale because you are a famous person and it happened in a world that you are accustomed, but they all go through something like your rang of emotions. Metaphorically speaking, It's almost like you met a girl that you really liked, she seemed interested and you fell head over heals in love with her. You started making plans, assuming things were mutual and you pushed too hard and too fast. >>> continued in comments section>>>>