The idea is to find a modern British family, restore a house to Victorian middle class condition, and make the family live there for 3 months. Will it be fun, like camping? Like being in a play? Or will it be a drag?

From the beginning, the producers make it clear that this is more of a thought experiment than research. It was impossible to find a really accurate, correctly working coal stove. They couldn't make everything in the house accurate to 1900, or modern health laws would have to be flouted.  They coudln't take the younger kids out of school, and the husband had to continue his job.

So the only ones with a complete 1900's experience are the wife and the teenaged daughter.  (Did anyone else notice that she was 16 and NOT in school? That, as I understand, is normal for Britain but weird for an American middle class family.) Wait a minute, the wife and daughter didn't have an authentic experience either, cuz in real life they would have had people next door to talk to, relatives to visit, etc. etc.  The situation was set up perfectly for the two of them to go bananas over the course of 90 days.

I read with puzzlement the reviews that complained about their complaining. Well, of course the wife and oldest daughter complain! They are the only ones whose lives have changed completely, all day and night! The twins, in particular, had very little change. They had each other to talk to, never had to wear corsets, and got to go to school each day. They didn't have to give up socializing as the eldest daughter did and got to see outside friends every day when they changed into 1900's outfits.  As to why they are complaining about corsets, haven't you ever had on an outfit that looked comfy but wasn't after 8 hours? What if you had to wear it for three months more after finding that out?

I very much enjoyed watching the degrees of struggle to 1900 s life. If you only have three outfits and wash them once a week, the romance is bound to fade fast. (Thank goodness no one in the house spilled anything or got the flu!)Chamber pots, chickens with black feathers so that they blend with the sooty air, lack of refrigeration and brushing your teeth with straight baking soda also don't fit the image of modern Victoriana.

This show cured my hang up with all things Victorian and more than that I cannot ask of any TV show.