Ever want to knock Bill O'Reilly, and his clones, into next Thursday, cause they keep telling you what to parrot so you too can be normal? Ever have dreams about beating your best friend's head into the cement steps he once tripped on, instead of catching him and keeping him from falling?;  because this friend you trusted implicitly, two years later, cut two thirds of your soul out and doesn't even understand it, or remember?
This is "Bruiser" Country. In Psychologicalville, the 'tude toward this film's lead is--"it's Henry's fault. His wife wouldn't have cheated on him, his boss wouldn't have treated him like dog meat, his best friend wouldn't have betrayed him, if Henry hadn't let them. Henry has to take responsibility for his actions. He should stop having a pity party, yadayada." So he fights back instead. Having no face, he thinks he's allowed.
Instead of getting Ophra opened some afternoon, so Dr. Phil can stick his big fat head inside you and come on like he owns you, see instead "Bruiser." It is a tonic against the bull dozers who justify their own and others who all are "little murderers." They take pieces of you, like the people in the film take pieces of Henry, who is so used to it, he doesn't really think about it anymore. That's how they win. 
The mask means no one ever notices him, so why have a face? It could also symbolize the comedy and tragedy masks, and perhaps a nod to mimes who are never heard and little noticed these days. Perhaps Anthony Newley's white face clown, Littlechap, from "Stop the World.." might also be in the mix. People get treated like clowns, by blowhards who know the scum rises to the top, and that's how to fit in with most of society.
 The murders are great fun. Very cathartic. They remind me of a line from an "Outer Limits" episode in which a man is explaining why he killed another man in cold blood. The "victim" had been hurting the man's sister. He was asked to stop. He did not. So, what was the difference between his sister being murdered by the inch, and killing her tormentor all at once?
 ...--their kind. is done constantly. It is legal. You commit it by word and by silence and by betrayal. And you have the clean up boys come along and make you feel guilty because people have done these things to you. "Bruiser" hits the spot, feels good, has a wonderful head knock-yes...--ending.
It is great seeing a new George Romero film. "Bruiser" is pretty terrific. His movies always mean something. They are consistently intelligent, intriguing; there are constant surprises hidden, even on repeat viewings. I like him immensely.