It's not.

If the picture looks terrible it is probably because your brightness and sharpness (or both) are set too high on your HDTV. If you haven't adjusted the TV much from factory settings then it is even more a given.

I can toggle between a few picture settings on my TV. When I watch Ghostbusters on the settings I tweaked myself, the movie looks great! It has visible grain like it should and is a really pleasing picture that blows any previous DVD of the movie out of the water.

When I toggle to a picture setting more like a factory setting, it looks awful with lots of white noise that represents the grain. The factory settings are usually too bright and made for the dealer show room instead of the living room. They usually have sharpness increased which causes "edginess" problems and that also includes the grain.

on a properly set TV, Ghostbusters looks fine.

The reason why I am docking the blu ray 1 star is because of the sound mix which lacks the directionality I remember from having the movie on a stereo RCA CED Selectavision disc (remember those? that's all this poor high school student could afford). And believe me, I know that movie soundtrack like the back of my hand from watching GB so much back in the day. I am talking about stuff like the door slam being heard on the right when Dana pushes Peter out into the hall and Louis's door opening and shutting on the left in the same scene. All that is in the center now. The music is not as robust and surrounding as I remember it as well.  It's not only on the blu ray but the previous DVD's too. It seems the remixes of these older films aim for less directionality. Maybe one of these days I can sync up HD Ghostbusters video with the old stereo tracks that has everything in places I remember.

But otherwise, great blu ray with great extras (some ported from previous releases).

By the way, since the blu ray makers know that many end users watch the movies on TV's that are set in such a way as to make visible film grain problematic, they end up applying digital noise reduction which reduces grain but also reduces detail. Whenever you see a blu ray and the actor's faces have a "waxy" look, you know it's been run through lots of DNR and dulled the film grain along with detail. I am quite glad this was not done with Ghostbusters.