This is one of the most compelling films I've EVER seen, and, so far, I've seen it four times.  Word of mouth seems to label "127 Hours" as a movie about a guy who cut off his arm; it's SO much more.  Aron Ralston's courageous story of survival, determination, hope, good and bad fortune, glory, and love of family, adventure and the environment along with revival and rebirth is the most inspiring and glorius episodes I have encountered.  From his near death prophetic visions, to his struggles with the elements & lack of food and water to his creative handling of his close encounter with death, I found this film a well produced, amazingly acted and perfectly directed retelling of one man's struggle with the elements that brought challenges that even the most determined outdoorsman could overcome, let alone survive.  The screen play is as imaginative, inspiring and emotional as Mr. Ralston's book, BETWEEN A ROCK AND A HARD PLACE. It's rather sad that due to lack of cinematic time, the film ends with Aron's triumphant rescue, since many new challenges awaited him, like Aron's stuggle with bone infections, which are inspiringly detailed in his book. Without a doubt, "127 Hours" is now my favorite pieces of cinema creativity, along with Aron Ralston's inspiring life and epic story of survival and living.
As far as the DVD release goes, it's a gem...at least the blu ray edition I got from Amazon is!  Commentary by Danny Boyle, Christian Colson & Simon Beaufoy is revealing, fun, informative and appropriate!  Deleted scenes are interesting, and include a very lengthy and more detailed alternative ending (although it's wonderful to see, the ending used was the appropriate one); the "Search & Rescue" featurette features the real Aron Ralston, his mother, and various other actual people from the absolutely timely and miraculous salvation of the amazing Mr. Ralston, who must have more character than most others on earth...for instance, when the chopper landed to take the exhausted, near-dead, dehydrated, hiker away, Aron was worried about soiling the helicopter's seat with his blood; "127 Hours:  An Extraordinary View" is another wonderfully detailed featurette that is an involved and interesting 'making of...' document.  I still can't figure out why the unbilled short film "God of Love" is here, other than no one could figure what other DVD to stick this thing on...but the good news is you can just skip it.