I love watching movie adaptations of Stephen King's work. When I came across "Sleepwalkers", I thought it would be interesting. However, I was a little skeptic because I hadn't ever heard of it, but then realized that King directly made this into a movie without making it a book first. After watching the entire movie, I can clearly say that unless you are a die-hard King fan, you can avoid this movie at all costs.

The story is about the Brady family consisting of Charles (acted by Brian Krause, who nowadays is famous for his role as 'Leo' in the hit TV show "Charmed") and his mother Mary (played by Alice Krige), who move to Travis, Indiana. However, we know from the beginning that they are not who they say they are; in fact, they aren't even human beings. They are the Sleepwalkers - shape shifting creatures who feast on female virgins to keep themselves alive. Their only flaw is that they are vulnerable to cats. Anyway, Charles has his eyes on his next victim, who happens to be a high school cheerleader called Tanya (played by M&auml;dchen Amick) and enrolls in the same class as her to seduce her. Will the Sleepwalkers be stopped in time or is it the end for Tanya?

I really wanted to enjoy this movie, but there are SO many holes in the storyline, which makes me confused to enjoy it, such as:

1) In the first scene of the movie, we see a bunch of dead cats hanging around the house, which proves that the Sleepwalkers can fight it and kill it. If that's the case, why were Charles and his mother afraid to even go outside their house to fight the cats off, instead of putting lame traps around them? We know they are not like vampires, and can walk during daylight.

2) When Tanya comes over to see Charles in his home, Charles realizes that the mirror reflects their true appearance, and pushes them to another room. So he knows he should avoid mirrors and other things, but yet in the graveyard, he lets Tanya take pictures of him? What's that all about? Okay, once or twice is fine, but he doesn't even stop her!

3) Thirdly, as Michael R Gates mentioned in his review, what is the point of the incest scenes between Charles and his mother? It doesn't progress the story in any way at all. It's not like they are mating to reproduce another of their kind (which would have made more sense).

There are many more questions, but I don't want to bore you with the details. The point is this movie was too confusing and silly to even enjoy it. The plus point is, the cast acted well, and we get to see King himself make an appearance, along with other horror creators Clive Barker and Tobe Hooper. Unfortunately, even with the cast, the story doesn't get any better. In fact, I felt sorry for the Sleepwalkers, because they are alone and they just need to keep themselves alive.

All in all, you can watch this movie if you have a lot of free time on your hands, but don't rent it in hopes of getting scared, or seeing something interesting, unless you are a fan of one of the cast members.