I have watched many superhero origin films throughout the years.  Many have been great (Iron Man, X-Men & Batman Begins) and many have been awful (Daredevil and Green Lantern). All of these films are different in an assorted number of ways, but they all have one commonality: a nascent superhero's initial revulsion towards his/her special abilities, (this includes Batman, whose special ability is his use of personal pain as motivation to do great things) a disinclination to accept the responsibility that accompanies his/her great power, followed by the hero's eventual acceptance of the power and the additional responsibility that comes with the superpower. "Chronicle's" originality stems from the fact that the movie does not explore the conventional superhero origin story theme; and while I do not begrudge the conventional superhero origin story theme, it is the movie's diversion from the conventional superhero origin story theme that engendered my love for the film.

"Chronicle" chronicles the life of 3 high school seniors. Andrew Detmer, (played by Dane Dehann) is physically and emotionally abused by his alcoholic father and peers; Steve (played by Michael B. Jordan) is the charismatic and universally admired potential class president; Matt Garrety(played by Andrew Russell)is preternaturally nice and smart, but flawed in many ways as well. Matt's kind nature and sense of pity allows him to be Andrew's only companion.

Andrew is relentlessly and mercilessly bullied. His morose personality attracts the attackers, but it is impossible not to feel sympathy for him.  As a means to create a distance between himself and other people, he enlists the use of a video camera; and he endeavors to use the camera to chronicle the circumstances of his life.  No one wants to be a part of Andrews experiment, and the bullying intensifies after the video camera is introduced. At a rave party, when Andrew's camera unintentionally lingers on an attractive woman, the woman's boyfriend expresses his displeasure by physically attacking Andrew before eventually spitting on him.

After the assault at the party, Andrew heads outside, where he retreats to a solitary place amongst the trees.  As the party continues to rage in the background while Andrew hopelessly sobs, Steve saunters into the video camera's view.  Steve is able to cajole Andrew into following him through a grove of trees so that a recent discovery can be filmed.  When Steve and Andrew happen upon the discovery in a ravine, Matt Garrety is already stationed at a deep gulch in the ground. The three boys venture into the gulch, which eventually becomes an underground cave of some kind. After an undetermined amount of time exploring the cave, the three of them come upon some sort of alien life form.  The intrepid explorers make the mistake of venturing to close to the alien, and then the camera goes black.

Cue to the scene where a healthy and happy Matt, Andrew, and Steve are cavalierly experimenting with their new powers in the back yard. All three boys have been endowed with the powers of telepathy; with Andrew becoming the most powerful of the three. The video camera is ever present, filming three boys goofing around with powers that could eventually change the world.  The three of them soon become bored with their backyard shenanigans, and decide to try some harmless experimentation on unsuspecting strangers in their town; that is until Andrew, who becomes annoyed at a honking truck driver, uses his power to run the truck off the road, critically injuring the truck driver. Andrew promises Matt and Steve that he will never again use his powers for ill, but it will be a promise that he will not be able to keep.

Before his eventual breakdown, Andrew, with the help of Steve, is able to use his powers to become popular, if only for a little while.  His new found popularity gains Andrew and Matt access to an elite house party, and while at this party he becomes friendly with a red haired beauty of a woman. This is the night that Andrew is finally going to lose his virginity. Unfortunately for Andrew, he is not able to consummate the act. His failure in this endeavor accelerates his descent into madness.

Andrew goes on to commit horrible acts of violence against his former tormenters; watching his horribly sick mother suffer from her debilitating disease incites criminal behavior; and the father who torments him as he convalesces in his hospital throws Andrew over the edge.  Andrew turns into a literal monster, terrorizing the city in which he lives with his powers until Matt has to put a stop to it all.

No one stood out, but the performances of the principle cast were uniformly good.  All three of the principle actors skillfully inhabit the psyches of their characters. I was also impressed with the execution of the special effects, especially with the limited budget (15,000,000).  Moreover, the "found film" sensibility of the finished product adds to the specialness of the three boys.  While watching the movie, you'll feel like you've discovered something precious as well.  I highly recommend this film.