***I have a few spoilers included****

You know, these are hard times we live in.  The world appears to be caving in, crumpling under the weight of worries: war in the Middle East going on and on, uncomfortable changes in weather patters, corruption in politics.  The news can really get you down and in a funk.  The answer, the antidote: watch Charlie Chaplin.  I kid you not.  I've seen this film before and each time it just reaches into my heart and tickles me till I'm alive with laughter.  Chaplin was a truly gifted comic master with almost no peer except for the much beloved Keaton.  "Modern Times" is such a masterpiece and it came at a critical junction in film history.  When it was made in 1936, films had already added live speech (Jolson spoke a bit in 1927 in "The Jazz Singer" and talkies were in full swing by the early 30's.  Chaplin surely knew that the days of purely silent films was at an end.  He rose to the occasion by creating one of the most famous dramatic and comedic masterpieces in all of cinematic history.

While speaking per se is not what you notice in "Modern Times", the few speaking parts are funny and used with great effect.  What we do notice is Chaplin's unmistakable and incredible physical humor.  We see how he falls over, how he moves his feet, how he kicks things with deft accuracy with those oversize shoes.  We see him run and skid on the floor.  These are hilarious and typical Chaplin moves.  In one scene he just goes over the top in what must be one of the most sensational moments.  He puts on roller skates and suddenly starts skating around like he has been doing this all his life, showing remarkable ability.  Then he puts on a blind fold and shows off, all the while skating within mere inches of a sharp drop to the floor below.  The effect makes you gasp out loud each time he comes close to falling over.  This is Chaplin at his pinnacle.

There are many books written about this film and all one can do is to encourage others to take out, buy it, rent it....just watch and enjoy.  Here is a really great film, written, directed and scored by Charlie Chaplin.  A must own for the serious fan.