After years of postponement, "The Fantasticks" was finally released as a feature film. I had been waiting for this since it was first announced in 1995. Five years later, I have to say I was vastly disappointed in this version of the world's longest running musical. If this is how American musicals are coming back to the silver screen, I'll stick to my classic movie channels with real movie spectacle. It wasn't worth the wait, or the money. 
  I was recently involved in a production of the original show, and fell in love with it. From the minute I saw it, I understood why it has withstood forty years of theater. The prose, the songs, the simplicity, the initmacy of this little big show.  And in true Hollywood style, they took everything good about the show and tossed it away. 
  Some of the most endearing songs were either hacked down to sound bytes, or cut out completely. "Try to Remember," the hauting classic normally sung at the beginning and end of "The Fantasticks," was reduced to a minute and a half at the end, as an afterthought. What does it say when the song that is supposed to set the tone is the first thing to go? "Plant a Radish" a usual scene-stealer for Hucklebee and Bellamy was cut, completely. The film didn't seem to want more than one plot point for the length of the movie.  
  El Gallo was no longer the omnipresent narrator with the wonderful prose that touches something deep within each audience member. He was an unentertaining, self-absorbed ringleader of a discount sidshow with an English accent that just added to his detached demeanor throughout the film. The fathers in the story were reduced to plot points and glorified props for the two lovers. They had their own story between each other and it was cut off at the knees. Two great veteran actors were wasted in this movie. Joel Grey, an entertainer with an illustrious performance career, was not used nearly enough. Barnard Hughes made a great Henry. However, he would have been even better, had they let him stick to the original script. The book for the show makes reference to Shakespeare's plays for a reason. There are inside jokes left and right in there that were completely eliminated. The screenplay, well, there's no nice way to put this: it sucked. No one but the kids seemed to grow emotionally in the movie. It was sad. El Gallo wasn't even likable, as quick and sarcastic as he was. By the way, it should be required that to do that part, you should have to be able to sing above a whisper.  
  All in all, the cast would have been just fine in the stage version. This cast (sans Jonathon Morris), could mount the live production, with all of its metaphors and deeper meaning than at first glance, and come away with a performance worthy of this show's tradition. Nothing, I repeat, NOTHING, could have saved this film from being a disaster. I would place the blame for this squarely on the shoulders of the director and his "vision". Save yourself the pain, go see a live production and enjoy the sounds of September.