Extras: the reason to actually buy anything on DVD.  This DVD has some of those, including a making of feature which is, for the most part, comedy goldmine.  Outside of that, there are some deleted scenes, the trailers, some totally unrelated trailers and the usual language options.  The unrelated trailers show up when the DVD starts up, but can be skipped, apparently.  Gotta have trailers, reminds me of VHS.  I used to have one of those, but it had problems, and eventually someone threw it away.  It had ben disassembled partly to make it work, so it sort of looked like rash at the time, I guess.  Missing are director/cast commentary, but the last time I saw a DVD from this director it was in japanese, and like so many people outside of that particular country I can't understand a whole lot in japanese.

The film itself:

This movie does not take itself seriously at all.  Not that Miike Takeshi films on the whole do that a lot.  It is a bizarre hybrid Samurai film / spaghetti western, which is amusing since so many spaghetti westerns were blatant rip offs of samurai films to begin with.  "Magnificent seven" and "Fistful of dollars" being the most notable examples.  The samurai films tended to steal from Shakespeare, so the whole thing has now gone full circle and is about to make a new round.

Everybody speaks english, correctly but with a distinct accent.  There seems to be some budget; the sets alone must have cost at least 30 million yen, and the whole thing is set high upon a moor somewhere and involves loads of extras.

The plot doesn't really matter, since the whole movie can be seen as just one weird scene after another, spaced closely enough together to keep one interested.  And the scenes are spectacular and memorable and make sense in context... most of the time.

But it doesn't matter what I say.  If you deliberately buy something called "Sukiyaki Western Django," knowing it was directed by Miike Takeshi you are probably a fan of the genre and an anime otaku at heart and know full well what you are getting into.  And you'll love it.  And you'll laugh at the references.