This movie is beautiful beyond the description of mere words. I can understand the comment that this appears to be a slow movie, for to those steeped in the fast pace of modern life this is surely the case.

"Far from a Masterpiece" says Over-educated lit junkie!

Yes, in America  we all find ourselves `over-educated'.  In one study, when asking 1000 college age young adults, 90% found themselves in the top 1% of intelligence.  In concluding, they found that those that were the most intelligent were not amongst the 90% who found themselves so very bright.  Our efforts to build self esteem in the U.S. Schools has surely proven a success, we all feel great about ourselves.  On the admonition of Ralph Waldo Emerson's "imitation is suicide" we are all original and our own source of truth goodness and beauty.  In the City of Man, this movie must surely be a clunker, a bore, a collosal waste of precious seconds when we could be rocking the wii just dance II or spilling a fantasy of what we would like our life to be on facebook.

This is not a movie for the citizens of the City of Man, but for the aspiring citizens of the City of God.  It is a masterpiece, and exposition of Christ's call to love God with all our hearts, minds, strength and soul and our neighbor as ourselves.  The protracted silences and seeming pauses are beautifully done moments to reflect on the profundity of this beautiful expresion of our full humanity.  I shudder at the thought f the city of man trying to love neighbors as ourselves, by exporting birth control and abortion with plastic surgery coming with the new wave of rights.  But no, we are to pick up our cross and follow Him. This movie is a beautiful example of the glory of the way of the Cross.

This movie succeeds magnificently in portraying the true essence of the 3 theological virtues of Faith Hope and Love and the difficulty we mere humans have in cultivating them.  It is one thing to espouse them by oath, and another to mean it, but still quite another to act on our oath after stating it meaningfully.  But for the Grace of God in communion with the Saints and the assent of the will such courageous love is all but impossible.

The concluding letter is a masterwork of Christological anthropological theology.  A more beautiful and sanctified letter we are not often going to come across outside of the scriptures and writings of the Doctors and Saints of Mother Church.

Not since the Passion of Christ have I been so moved by a movie.  I highly recommend this for anyone interested in becoming a citizen of the City of God.