Pretty Movie
 The 80's was quite an era for movies with The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Back to the Future, Ghostbusters, Goonies.  However there is one movie which stands out in my mind, Pretty Woman.  The audience quickly falls in love with the uplifting, inspiring fairytale brought to life.  Julia Roberts and Richard Greer give memorable performances Roberts portraying a lost prostitute doing whatever it takes to make ends meet when she falls upon Richard Greer, a rich successful business man, in trouble on the wrong side of town.  These two meet by accident but fall in love by chance making for a moving, romantic film with an incredible message and talented actors.  Due to its storyline and message as well as the talented actors that help bring the screen to life Pretty Woman is the best movie of the eighties.  Pretty Woman is a perfect example that dreams do come true and bad times will only get better.  Vivian, played by Julia Roberts, is stuck on the bad side of town selling her body in order to survive.  At heart she is not the slutty, no body prostitute type and all it takes is a little fate to save her from the streets of Los Angeles.  Edward, played by Richard Greer, comes roaring through town in an expensive sports car obviously catching the attention of the girls on the corner.  Vivian approaches him not knowing this man will change her life.  Edward saves Vivian from the streets and Vivian saves Edward from his workaholic, heartless ways.  These complete opposites end up falling in love and making the other person better than ever.  Vivian reminds Edward to live life and see beyond work. Edward gives Vivian a chance to be more than a sex toy giving her confidence and the push she needs to straighten out and become the woman which lies within.  This movie illustrates the thought that people come in our lives for a reason.  Love does conquer all and the dreams of a fairytale romance can come true.  As the fairytales always go the poor, hopeless, unpromising girl can become the princess when her prince charming sees beyond the exterior and into her soul.  A good story line can only be effective when talented actors bring the feelings and emotions to life.  Julia Roberts and Richard Greer do just that with their incredible on screen chemistry and ability to become the characters they are portraying.  The spark between Roberts and Greer is present from the first moment their characters meet.  Their body language creates the mood of attraction and desire.  The audience becomes engulfed in the characters growing love for each other and the way each compliments the personality of the other.  Opposites can attract; Greer's rigid and stressed working character is perfect for Vivian's carefree, unorganized demeanor.  With out the talent of these two actors the chemistry between the characters would not have been as effective and apparent.  The way each of actors become the character they are portraying makes the film even more memorable and close to the hearts of it's audience.  Greer and Roberts made the movie!  A good storyline? ... CHECK ... Good actors to play the roles effectively? ... CHECK, proving Pretty Woman is the best flick of the eighties and it have proven it's self over and over again as each generation falls in love with the film.  The brought to life fairytale of Pretty Woman is hard not to fall in love with, the movie gives people hope and a warm feeling about love and romance.  The on screen chemistry makes each look and touch seem filled with real life meaning and love.  Roberts and Greer are perfect to work together and their talents have been seen again in later movies such as Run Away Bride.  Pretty Woman is a movie I cannot get enough of, it will continue to be viewed for years to come.
Pretty Woman directed by Garry Marshall. written by J