When I heard Hal Hartley came out with a new film, I couldn't get there fast enough. Unfortunately, it is playing at fewer places than Blade II but it's playing.
  What's remarkable about Hartley's films is tracking his allusions. He doesn't seem ashamed to say what he knows nor does he seem to mind integrating every great story ever written into his new film, No Such Thing. Unlike Hollywood which enjoys choosing one story-for instance "Okay Cinderella but with a hooker," Hartley tells like twelve stories and lets the actors choose which one they want to be in.For instance, Sarah Polley, who plays the monster's better half, has more than one opportunity to become famous in the film. Her first opportunity arises in a car accident when she is miraculously saved by modern medicine. When offered fame for this survival, she declines.
Yet when she is offered another chance for fame, she takes it(wait and see.) And she's such a sweetheart, she only takes her allotted fifteen minutes. God bless'er. So inside Hartley's film, the actors remain conscious of the story they want to be in and it's fascinating.
  Hartley's clearly well read and if you're anything like me and only partly well-read you won't get all his references. I was pleased to discover he used Dante's lovely Beatrice(Polley) from Vita Nuova as the heroine. She travels to Iceland with a little help from a friend and strangers, to find out about her murdered boyfriend.
  We've got beauty and the Beast, King Kong, Dante-and I know I'm missing some, one about person traveling to find out something(Iliad? Odyssey?)-but it's early and yotta yotta.
  Hartley brings an almost handsome Jim Morrison Rock Star monster into the world with no memory of his birth because he began with us.We need monsters, we are monsters. Of course the villagers, who only live there "because they have to" act as monsters while the monster just wants to be left alone and wants to die. The villagers get our lovely Sarah Polley, Beatrice, drunk so they can offer "some unsuspecting piece of ..." to the monster,hoping to save their own ... another day or two. Stupid people.
  The monster is tired of humanity and humanity is so bored with itself that the media continues to search for monsters so it can
remain entertained.
  Go see it. Bring a pen.See what you find.