I've heard naysayers badmouth this movie, but I've never understood it.  They use descriptors such as "preachy", "overly dramatic", "self-important", and so on.  Good grief!  What are you, bait fishers (not that there's anything wrong with that)?  This is the story of this man's family, and it is truly beautiful.

I guide trout fishing trips in Missouri, so, of course, I love this movie partly for the fishing.  This film explained my fly-fishing passion to my wife more effectively than my words and dragging her along on a few fishing trips ever could.  The scenes are filmed magnificantly and are done in such a way that you can follow the logic and instinct that each fisherman uses to catch each fish.  However, the story is so much more than this.

The story begins with Norman making note that there was never a clear line between religion and fly-fishing in his family, and that parallel continues throughout the story and his life.  Success as a fly-fisherman is based on knowledge, physical skill, intuition, and emotion, but balance is also required.  That balance only comes through spirituality, whether you are stiving to be a Godly person, or whether you simply commune with nature in a spiritual fashion.  Without balance, a tangled line can cause you to pull your hair out.  With balance, even the most unsuccessful fishing trip brings joy.  And so Norman stuggles with understanding his younger brother Paul, who has attained such miraculous balance on the river, but whose life away from the river is rapidly spinning out of control.  In the end, the observant viewer should recognize that it is Paul's pride that eventually leads to his downfall, and it is the family's failure at their attempts to rescue Paul that they continue to struggle with the remainder of their lives as well.

Norman spends his life trying to tap into God's balance through fly-fishing in the hopes that he will someday understand what happened to his family and why.  Perhaps finally writing his book helped him to answer a few of those questions.

Walt Fulps

http://www.MissouriTroutHunter.com