I too went to the theater expecting some over-long boring movie, instead I found a pretty good one. Not perfect or "the greatest movie ever" but a pretty good movie! [...]

Anyway, back to the movie. The story itself was pretty good. I too found it a bit annoying how some of the important parts were just mentioned in passing by Anthony Hopkins, but that didn't really affect my enjoyment of the film.

The costumes and the sets were pretty cool and believable, at least to me. I didn't really notice anything that could be called 'digitalized,' everything looked pretty real. (Well, except maybe some of the buldings while they look outside.)

I won't go into much detail about the story since other people have already done that. I thought reviews were supposed to be a person's opinion of the movie and acting rather than a scene-to-scene summary!

Now, let's turn to the acting. I must say, I am schocked that some people choose to call the acting 'horrible.' Did we watch the same movie? I thought the performances by all were pretty decent...especially Colin Farrell. The accents didn't bother me at all, and I actually enjoyed the one Angelina Jolie had! She was one of my favorite parts of the movie, because I always find myself liking powerful women who know what they want and will do anything to get it. The snakes were a nice touch to, since in one of the scenes, while she was sitting outside when her husband was killed, she actually looked like a snake! (Well, her eyes at least.) Any Academy Awards in the making? I'm not really sure, but Colin Farrell at least deserves a nomination, in my opinion.

The battle scenes were okay but maybe a bit dragging. I thought the 'red' effect in the second battle was a nice touch...to help us see through Alexander's eyes at that moment.

As for the gay elements, there weren't many at all. If you're bothered by them, the real thing you might wanna worry about is the sex scene between Alexander and his wife. I'm not sure if 'violent' is the right word, but it does describe some aspects of it.

All in all, a pretty good movie if you aren't a total conservative who thinks that only straight people existed in acnient times (since Alexander's soulmate in this movie is another man). If you're one of those people who enjoys historical movies that are much deeper than the usual Hollywood flick, you'll probably like this movie.

My money was well spent.

-Ater