First of all, one of the reviewers here left Christianity over this movie, which saddens me greatly, though I completely understand. I also saw these movies as a child and for the next 20 years of my life, I had nightmares and anxiety attacks as well... I would wander downstairs in the night and check to make sure my parents were still there and had not been raptured (so you can imagine my consternation one time when I went down there and discovered the lights and TV on, but my parents were gone... they were just on the deck, but I didn't discover that until I started wailing and bawling)  I also had serious faith issues after watching these movies and spent many years scared of God, that every time I did something wrong, that was it, I was going to be left behind. Thank GOD that I finally realized one day that this interpretation is not Biblically sound, and treats the Bible like a jigsaw puzzle rather than books. You don't read a book like that! Do you read a sentence in the sports page, and then a sentence in the Nation section and put them together and try to make sense out of them???  No, and you'd call me silly for doing it! The only way this scenario of the "rapture" can take place is if you pull a whole bunch of OTHER Biblical passages, not found in Revelation, out of context and then fit them into this "system" of the "end times." But what if one of those pieces is out of place? Then the whole scenario will change. I just can't treat Biblical interpretation that way. You have to put it into its historical, geographical and cultural context, as well as the context of the passages it was originally found in! And Revelation is a timeless book that talks about the past, present and future. But no secret rapture that leaves some behind--all the things that happen in Revelation can easily be looked at as representative of all kinds of things that have happened throughout history (at least up through the REAL second coming). Besides... when have Christians ever been spared suffering? And why on earth would God remove his only witnesses when they were needed the most????  That makes NO SENSE.  Anyway...  After making this realization, I reconciled my issues with God and am now a seminary student...  and I would never ever recommend movies like this!!!!!