World War II aviation enthusiasts will find enough holes in "Memphis Belle" to fly a B-17 through and it has been extensively dissected on the "Memphis Belle" website, as this is a real aircraft that has been fully restored. The "Memphis Belle" was the first Flying Fortress to complete 25 missions and then sent stateside with its crew to raise money for war bonds. This film purports to show what happened on that final mission but, of course, it is all fabrication. There are some subplots that would appear ludicrous to a real WWII bomber crew, not the least a co-pilot whining that he has nothing to do and then leaving his post during an air battle! In truth, bomber missions were not only long and grueling but dangerous, the pilot often getting killed or wounded along the way. Add to that the cheesy FX graphics and clich&eacute;d cast members (One Jew, one hillbilly, one poet, one Italian, a coward who learns courage etc) and you could write off this film as second rate.

What saves it is excellent ensemble acting, great music, thrilling air combat scenes and one unforgettable vignette that shows the viciousness of air combat through the actual gun camera footage of German fighter planes. Watching the Forts get chewed to shreds in real life is sobering and adds some weight to the story. There is also a great acting role for David Strathairn, as the squadron commander, Col. Harriman who practically bleeds for his men. His showdown with the obnoxious public relations huckster Lt. Col. Derringer is a study of barely contained rage.

A reliable cast rounds out the crew, from Mathew Modine's mother hen of a Captain Dearborn, Tate Donovan ("Damages") as his surly co-pilot, the always reliable Eric Stoltz, Harry Connick Jr. Sean Astin, D.B. Sweeney and a surprisingly sweet turn by Reed Diamond as top gunner, Virgil Hoogesteger.

It's worth noting that in this age of computer-generated reality, the most convincing scenes are those of the 1/4 scale models of the B-17's which, lined up on the runway, look like the real deal. Only 6 real Fortresses were available for the film so the rest of the squadron was filled in by good old fashioned model making.