Carl Brashere's life is chronicled in this "against all odds" movie that highlights his resilience vs. the "old navy". The opening scenes display the hard, farm life Brashere (Cuba Gooding Jr.) was born into, conveying the "back breaking" fortitude his father displays, in order to keep the family farm. When Brashere originally enlists, he notifies the family of his chosen career, the elder Brashere,(Carl Lumby) sternly warns his son of returning home - intensifying the young Brashere's intention to buck the system and prevail at all costs...  Early on, in his tour of duty, Brashere is relegated to cook's detail, the obvious choice for young enlisted african-american naval men. Undaunted, Brashere vows to become an elite member of the Naval Diving Core. Initially, he is laughed at by his fellow naval men.  After dilligent pursuit in seeking admission into the Naval Diving School he is finally accepted upon sending countless letters.  Master Seargant Billy Sunday (Robert DeNiro) is the self-proclaimed god of the training school,where he puts trainees thru pure-hell in order to qualify as a deep sea diver. The DeNiro character is a hard-charging, whiskey drinking southerner who has trouble following orders - and he's prone to violence if provoked.  Brashere confronts racism immediately once arriving on the base. His bunk-mates refuse to share the dorm - walking out one by one. His only friend is the Michael Rappaport character, who just seems to be an outcast, but provides support for Brashere.  The real conflict is between Brashere and Sunday, who quietly have a mutual admiration for each other, sighting their similar backgrounds. Brashere breezes thru the training, until the last obstacle. Pappy, the brash General who's aloofness is apparent when hunkering over the men in an oversized tower. Pappy (Hal Holbrook) is totally against Brashere graduating, and directs Sunday to halt his progress by all means. Without divulging an enormous amount of information Brashere remains the victor.  
  During this period, Brashere's career is on the upswing and Sunday's is in a downward spiral. Sunday's hostility and drunkeness escalates during a party where he assaults a Naval officer. I love DeNiro's southern accent - it's almost similar to the Max Cady character in "Cape Fear" minus the decadence.  Brashere's dedication and fearlessness is further tested when he is injured during a dive. He is forced to go against the grain again during a lengthy trial. Requesting re-admission into the Navy, versus the serious injury, Brashere's back is against the wall once again . Who's there to help him? None other than the raucous Sunday, who appears out of nowhere, to assist Brashere. Of course, we know the final outcome, but who cares!!! It's a feelgood movie..Director Tillman, seems adept at making these types of movies..ie: Soul Food..Plus it's a true story, making it more conceivable. Only drawback, in my estimation, are the scenes between Carl Brashere and his wife, which seem misplaced and not in tune with the picture. Regardless, Good Movie......