Jacob's Ladder is a psychological thriller in which Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins), a Vietnam veteran, is suffering from hallucinations which seem to have some connection with what happened to him one night in Vietnam war.  Jacob finds himself living in different time realities and he just cannot  grab at the present time. He sees demons and nightmarish visions strangely  combined with flashbacks of that night in Vietnam which make him pass out.  When he regains conciousness, he wakes up to completely a different time  reality which, too, turns out to be a false at the end, leading him to  another false reality. He cannot make sense of the situation and thinks he  is losing his mind. He constantly finds himself trapped in neverending  sequences of nightmares that he cannot wake up from. This cycle never ends  until the end of the film when all the other realities vanish, leaving out  only one reality which makes Jacob's Ladder a brilliant movie. Jacob's  physician Louis probably express the main theme of the movie best in these  words: "So, if you're frightened of dying and... and you're holding on,  you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace,  then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth."

I think  this movie is unfairly underestimated and not given enough credit. Tim  Robbins' performance is flawless and fascinating. Adrian Lyne directed the  movie very well; the emotions and the tension that are aimed to be brought  about are achieved quite successfully. One interesting fact about the movie  is that when you watch it for the second time, you notice a lot of things,  which you did not notice or could not make sense out of in the first place.  Names, small incidents, conversations, even the advertisement in the  downtown train take on a new meaning once you know what is really happening  to Jacob Singer. I strongly recommend Jacob's Ladder to the people who like psychological thrillers and soft horror movies.

Bluray review: I must say I am disappointed by the bluray release of Jacob's Ladder. The picture quality, the details, colors, are all very poor. If you have the regular DVD, keep it. Wait until they re-release it (I hope they do) with better picture/audio quality.