This dark, symbolic and very funny movie brings to life the glory and grotesquerie of Hollywood's "Golden Era". It explores the way in which the formulaic demands of the Hollywood production line drained writers of their  creativity, leaving them alienated from their roots and haunted by their  own demons. 
The deep, passionate, violent Southerner Mayhew and the  idealistic, impassioned, neurotic, self-righteous New York Jewish  intellectual, Barton Fink may be cultural and literary opposites but each  demonstrates the solipsistic tendencies of "serious" writers. In  Barton's case, his inability to relate to real human beings rather than  idealistic abstractions. In Mayhew's, his drunken brooding over lost youth  and lost innocence.
Both character demonstrate how, in their search for  the meaning of life, artists can cut themselves off from life and lose the  ability to communicate with their fellow man. Barton's self-imposed  isolation in a seedy, claustrophobic hotel room mirrors Mayhew's  imprisonment in alcohol and nostalgia. It is so easy to get trapped within  oneself, to believe that by venturing out from the "life of the mind" into  real life, we will be distracted from the Big Truth we seek. While Barton  is paralyzed by writer's block, he is oblivious to the rich source of  material offered by salesman Charlie Meadows ("Oh, I could tell you  some stories"). 
Two of the delights of the movie are Tony Shalhoub as  the dyspeptic producer Ben Geizler ("Writers come and go; we always  need Indians.") and Michael Lerner as the grotesque studio mogul Jack  Lipnick. These egomanical philistines care for nothing but profit but give  the "common man" what he actually wants (Wallace Beery in tights.  Jesse Ventura's recent political success shows not much has changed since  1940 in terms of popular taste)
Barton Fink makes the same point as  Preston Sturges' "Sullivan's Travels" in which the idealistic movie  scriptwriter tries to make a film about social struggle for the "common  man" but finds out that what the "common man" really wants is a Disney  cartoon to take his mind off his own troubles. The Coens's forthcoming  film, "Brother Where Art Thou?", is their homage to Sturges'  movie.
Barton Fink is a very funny, very dark film about the meaning of  art. Do we seek enlightenment or escape through film, drama and literature?  Does non-commercial art provide enlightenment, or does it ultimately lead  down the road to solipsism and self-absorption?