"All I wanted was a place to sleep," those were the last words Rebecca, a homeless woman, said to Sam before leaving him with their newborn daughter, directly after birth.  I am Sam (2001) stars Sean Penn as Sam, a mentally handicapped father with the mental capasity of a seven year old, and Dakota Fanning, as Lucy, who has recently turned seven.  She started holding herself back to school to stop herself from becoming smarter than her father.  The question the movie asks is, can Sam raise his daughter despite his disability?
 And that is the question asked by the court after taking Lucy away from Sam on her seventh birthday. Throughout the trial the state is trying to prove that Sam is an unfit father, but the film shows how other families are dysfunctional, especially Sam's lawyer, Rita Harrison.  She learned a lot from Sam, the value of love and family.
 This film was not only a real tear-jerker but also included comic relief by Sam's close knit group of friends.  Dakota Fanning delivered an amazing performance, especially for a seven year old. She shows so much motion and it never feels fake or forced.  Her character is smart, mature, and deeply loves her father, and Fanning shows all of these qualities.
I am Sam is littered with Beatles references, from the soundtrack to the names of characters.  The soundtrack consists almost completely of Beatles remakes by various artists, which saves us from monotony.  Lucy and Rita both get their names from Beatles songs, "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds" and "Lovely Rita", and Rita's last name, Harrison, refers to Beatles guitarist George Harrison.  Also, when Lucy was a newborn, Sam pins her diaper with a Lennon pin, they walk across the street with balloons, resembling the cover of "Abbey Road" and well as many others.  Sam is a Beatles fan but when overwhelmed, he refers to Beatles facts.  For example, when Sam was being questioned in court he becomes frustrated and started speaking about why the Beatles broke up.
 It was well filmed and well-written.  The lighting set the tone for the film.  In scenes before Lucy was taken from Sam, it was bright, sunny and colorful.  Later, in the court room scenes, it was dark, gray and dismal.  The costumes also show this.  When Sam and Lucy are still together Lucy wears very bright clothing with patterns and even Sam's wardrobe is more colorful.  In court, everyone wears dark, gray clothing that seems to have harsher edges.  Dutch angle and a shaky, out of focus camera show us Sam's frustration and confusion.
I highly recommend this film.  The acting is amazing, the plot keeps one on the edge of one's seat and is full of emotion.  I am Sam leaves viewers hanging with an ambiguous ending and a dilemma.  We want Lucy and Sam to stay together, but know that Sam is unable to provide for her by himself.