I caught the end of this movie on cable and was entranced, so when it came round again I happily sat down with my kids (7 and 5) to watch it all.  Well, okay, I didn't expect my autistic son to pay much attention, but I thought it would be fine family fare for the rest of us.

What a shock!

This is an excellent film, but it is essentially historically accurate in that in the 1920s most people were both ignorant of and brutal to most animals, especially "wild beasts."  I will say right now my daughter demanded to know why some people were treating the animals badly.  The movie does not at all encourage people to treat animals poorly; but by merely showing and not preaching, my daughter got a powerful message about our responsibility for our own behaviours.  She spent a lot of time afterwards talking about how people need to learn about animals before doing things with them or to them.

But what really startled me was my son's reaction.  He started off not paying attention, leaping around the room playing with a Star Wars toy.  There is a scene where one cub is trapped in a box on the back of a truck, and the mama tiger comes galloping to try and rescue him.  My son suddenly dropped his toy and began yelling excitedly, "Go mama go mama!"  When the rescue failed, he burst into tears and was almost inconsolable.  Star Wars forgotten, he remained glued to the film, clutching a tiger toy he had never cared about before.

He absolutely got that these tigers were family, and the pain of separation, and the joy of reunion.  It is a deeply moving film.  We went through most of a box of kleenex watching it.

I can't emphasize enough the sheer beauty of this film, the degree to which the music supports but never takes over, the delicate pacing of the story -- exciting moments but none of that unrelenting hyperness of most "children's" movies.

Some people have complained that it gives an exaggerated idea of tigers, in that it took 30 tigers to do all the stunts, or that it's too sentimental because it doesn't ever show tigers as mean.  Actually, there are scenes where it is demonstrated how dangerous the tigers are (no gore, but kids get the idea), and one of the concerns expressed repeatedly by the humans -- even the ones who like the tigers -- is that they are wild animals, and as such can't be taken for granted or presumed to be safe.  Personally, I felt the movie -- given the necessities of film making, such as multiple tigers -- was pretty honest about tigers.  The whole point is to let the tigers be tigers, in their own habitat, not to be either vicious or sentimental about them. And frankly, most tigers don't go around mindlessly attacking anything that moves out of blood-thirstiness.  They don't attack each other for entertainment, unlike the humans who force them to.  Tigers are predators, not monsters.

This is not a movie one could put on and let young kids watch by themselves.  They need their parents around to clutch and cry with and laugh with.  But that is well worth doing!  It is a wonderful experience, and can generate a lot of conversation afterwards.

Now... will "Duma" play anywhere we can see it on the big screen?