Right then. This film has been getting quite a mixed reception from media and the general public so I thought I'd lose my Amazon review cherry by offering my opinions on this movie. 
Cabin Fever has been hailed by some as being the saviour of the low-budget horror genre, others though consider it to be the worst movie ever made. I unfortunatley fell heavily into the latter camp when I paid my hard earned cash to watch it. 
I really wanted to love this movie. It was the end of the summer and myself and a few mates decided at the last minute to pay a visit to the local cinema. One of the group had seen a trailer for Cabin Fever and thought it would be a good laugh. This friend is now in a shed in the middle of nowhere having his face chewed off by a rabid water vole. I was imaging the film to be one of three movie types a) A rehash of the Blair Witch b) Your usual teen slasher flick, nothing special but great popcorn fodder c) An Evil Dead style independent film that was fresh and full of individuality and charm. Cabin Fever was none of these things. From the very start I could tell this film was bad news. The group of actors cobbled together for this movie will hopefully never work in the mainstream again and I can only hope that Eli Roth is now safely locked away somewhere.
I was neither grossed out nor scared by this film. The make-up effects were passable but nothing spectacular. I'll admit to laughing a couple of times during the movie. That whole thing with the Hanson kid and his pancakes was hilarious. But as soon as my initial roar of laughter calmed down I was impelled to question quite loudly "what the f*** was that all about?". Noone else in the cinema was sure either. I could really sense discomfort in the audience as noone was quite sure exactly what they were watching on the screen.
This film left me puzzled for a long time after - my main confusion being why I had spent any money to watch this shoddy flick. There seemed to be no passion from the cast, there were also so many random moments in the film that I can only imagine the director believed would be witty, but that just came across as a desperate attempt to fill some time. That whole section where the group wandered off to try and  find help - where the hell did that boat come from? There were two good points in the film - I'm not going to lower myself by telling you what they were (.)(.). Whoops. Ummm, I really can't be bothered to write anymore on the subject. Like the film, I think I'll just tail off and start loosing all structure and sense. Wibble. Yep. That outta do it. 
AVOID THIS FILM AT ALL COSTS.