There had been nothing like it in American movies.  People asked each other where they were when they first saw it just as they later asked where they were when they heard about Kennedy.  The ads & posters said that no one would be seated during the film's final 15 minutes.  Something unheard of to a movie going public who never paid any attention to movie time schedules.  Exhibitors had to sign a contract agreeing to enforce this stricture before they could book the movie.  The Hollywood production code people refused to pass the movie unless a shot of Janet Leigh's belly button was cut.  Hitchcock simply withdrew the film then later resubmitted it saying the offending button had been excised.  (It hadn't.)  The Catholic Legion of Decency which wanted to condemn it, having lost the battle over the public's desire to see with GONE WITH THE WIND, wouldn't make the same mistake twice so gave it a B rating (objectionable in part for all) straight off.  Early critics laughed and said no one would want to see a movie in which the leading lady was killed off in the first 45 minutes.  (The critics' derision was drowned out by the sound of people stampeding to the box office.)  And they commiserated with poor Janet Leigh whose opening scene was in a seedy hotel room where she had just finished having sex with John Gavin & wore nothing but a bra & half slip.  Hitchcock countered these objections by pointing out that if he had made the movie in Europe the leading lady would wear even less & nobody would object because the movie would then be considered an 'art film'.  The movie hinted at homosexuality which Hitchcock always denied.  And even worse it was the first American movie (Hitchcock was very proud of this) to show a toilet.  And he didn't just show a toilet but had Janet Leigh rip up a piece of paper & throw the bits into the toilet then flush the thing.  But the biggest shocker was the infamous shower scene.  Never has film editing made such an impression on an audience.  People thought they saw a lot more of Leigh than they actually did.  (It's here the offending belly button pops up.)  Critics accused Hitchcock of being sadistic toward the audience just as some of his leading ladies said he was to them personally.  Hitchcock protested, wide eyed, that the scene was simply 50 odd bits of celluloid spliced together (you can actually count them if you're not too terrified).  And if the scene's fast editing didn't get to you Bernard Herrmann's shrieking violins did.  (Herrmann's music shrieks have become a music icon like the first 2 bars of Beethoven's 5th Symphony & ON THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUABE.)  Hitchcock spent so much time working out this scene in his head & on story boards that when it came to the shooting he claimed he was bored & let Saul Bass who did the imaginative title sequence do the actual directing.  Joseph Stefano's script (based on a Robert Block novel) is often more than efficient.  The scene between Anthony Perkins (fresh from a successful debut in FRIENDLY PERSUASION which left millions of highschool girls pining for him) and Leigh in the parlor of the motel office is very effective.  Stefano catches some of the dymanics of child abuse & conveys character & motive through the dialogue.  And who can forget that looming Edward Hooper house?  It's a pity that PSYCHO is more talked about these days than seen.  There still is nothing else quite like it.