Ok, I admit, I went to the theatre a bit negatively pre-biased.  Sure, the previews I saw were mildy funny and I do like Jack Black, but I thought Kung Fu Panda would be yet another vapid kids' animated movie with anthropomorphized animals saying cleverly planned puns and adultish in-jokes and that the funniest scenes were probably already shown in the trailer to draw audiences in.

I was very pleasantly surprised to be wrong.  Kung Fu Panda is hilarious and well-made, and though it is clearly aimed at kids, it was tremendously entertaining and satisfying for adults too.  The movie was pretty evenly funny throughout, with occasional uproarious hilarity, esp from Jack Black.  Like, have you ever gotten a comic image stuck in your head and you (embarrassingly) find yourself chuckling outloud, by yourself, for minutes after the audience stopped laughing?  Well, there were several moments like that in this movie for me.  There was a subtle, clever layer of humour particularly in some of the facial expressions, and I even found some of the side storylines genuinely touching, like the relationship between the son, a chubby panda (voiced by Jack Black) and the kind-hearted, noodle-shop owner father, a stork (voiced by James Hong).  The villain, a cloud leopard with sinister glowing eyes, is really menacing and scary (believe it or not), enough to scare some small kids into tears, so be forewarned.  The whole production, the "legendary" tale, authentic movements, and background sets really HONOR the Kung Fu movie tradition more than parody it, I thought.  I mean to say, the Kung Fu itself was pretty good (though it's animated and practiced by animals).  The animation was superb, and in particular, some of the food they showed was just mouth-watering (it really made us crave Chinese dumplings and noodles).  Lastly, I'd like to add that I went to the movie theatre without knowing who the voice cast was.  I only knew that Jack Black was in it.  Watching as the end credits rolled, we were just as entertained (again) in discovering the great (and distinguished) voice talent behind the animation.  I was actually able to correctly guess one person (the Rhino captain of the Prison guards), though everyone's voice will be vaguely familiar.
I highly recommend Kung Fu Panda for the whole family.