After persuading one of my guy friends that this movie would be worth seeing, (okay, so I dragged him kicking and screaming into the theater with the untrue promise that someone in the movie would be naked), the two of us got our tickets and settled in.  I couldn't wait to see this movie ever since I first heard about it.  After all, I'm a sucker for romantic comedies, and I love Ben Stiller and Jennifer Aniston. 
However, I have to say I was very much disappointed. I couldn't put my finger on why I disliked the movie so much until the next day. It came to this main issue: Jennifer Aniston and Ben Stiller have absolutely NO on-screen charisma. None whatsoever. I hate to say it, but it seemed to be Jennifer's fault, because Ben Stiller DID come across somewhat convincingly in his role. The two of them together though had about as much charisma as two bumps on a log. Yes, it was that bad. 
A quick rundown of the plot: Ben Stiller plays Reuben Feffer, a man with Irritable Bowel Syndrome, a job in Risk Assessment, and a stable plan for his life and future. He had just gotten married to the woman of his dreams when the first bomb drops - his wife dumps him for the nudist scuba diver instructor. Reuben makes his way home with his tail between his legs and goes about his life amongst the whispers and constant pitying comments of his coworkers, family and friends. Then he meets Polly (Jennifer Aniston), a girl he knew back in school. Of course, you guessed it - Reuben decides he might be able to try his hand at love again. Except everything seems to go wrong. Polly is a totally unusual, hates-to-commit and laid back woman, while Reuben is a conservative, high-stress type of guy that doesn't take any uncalculated risks. Will they be able to make it as a couple? Will their two very different personalities at least clash into an exciting mix? At the same time, Reuben's friend Sandy Lyle (played by Philip Seymour Hoffman) is stirring things up by being under the mistaken impression that he is a childhood star that can do anything he wants. Including taking two leading roles in a play he is acting in. Throw in the usual over-bearing and nosy parents, a few embarrassing Ben Stiller scenes, a few flashes of Jennifer Aniston's perfect figure, and you have yourself the ingredients of "Along Came Polly". 
This plot would normally make for a very steamy and suspenseful movie; however, as I mentioned above, the sparks and excitement were missing completely. Polly came across as an unfeeling, ridiculous and selfish person; Reuben would have bored even the most devoted Ben Stiller fans to tears had it not been for the requisite bathroom scene. (What is up with these embarrassing bathroom scenes in these type of movies?) Philip Hoffman, sad to say, was extremely hard to look at because he just looked really bad! Did anyone else think that? He is a great actor and came across convincingly, but he looked just awful. 
So there you have it: no onscreen sparks or believability whatsoever; a much-recycled plot with only a few moments of nearly forced laughter; and so little suspense that I could have foretold the entire plot with 20 minutes of the movie starting. (Actually, before it started). Am I recommending this movie? Yes, as a matter of fact, to those of you out there who are looking to torture yourself or a date or friend for a couple of hours in a movie theater. Or perhaps someone with insomnia. A word of advice - if someone is insisting on dragging you to the theater to see this, make sure to guzzle down a few alcoholic drinks at the very least. 
Overall, I was very disappointed in the movie. I will definitely hesitate the next time I am contemplating going to see Jennifer Aniston in a movie.