DOUBLE JEOPARDY works well as a general viewing film and I'll most likely watch it again. Had I seen it in the theatres paying full "big city" prices, I might have been disappointed, though. It's a pretty average story, a bit reworked from other movie plots, but I don't hold that against the film. The big probelm I have with the film is that ultimately it fails to deliver a good, punchy, thriller-suspense-filled ride similar to, say, THE FUGITIVE (TF) or SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY (SWTE). Poor plot? I don't think so. Problematic script? More likely. 
There's never the sense of desperate urgency in DOUBLE JEOPARDY that other films manage to produce. Ashley Judd's character never seems to be running out of time or getting closer and closer and closer to being caught in the same way that Harrison Ford's did in TF. I simply don't see Judd as the feisty, determined, revenge and hate driven character the movie purports her to be. The virtual kidnapping of a child, unjust prison time, and spousal betrayal are certainly enough motivation for her to start her post-prison life as she did, searching for her son and her not-murdered husband. But I get the impression that either because of poor plot execution or weak script writing she never gets the opportunity to exhibit the desperation of a wronged mother on a quest for her kidnapped child. And that's a shame, really, because it's a potentially very powerful movie driving force.
Now, add to this mix Bruce Greenwood's part as Judd's evil husband who, quite fankly, just isn't all that menancing in DOUBLE JEOPARDY. He's not nearly as close to the "damn he scares me and I hope he gets it in the end" characterization that, say, Patrick Bergin succeeded with as the husband in SWTE. Greenwood is certainly a decent actor, and you  don't like him at all by the end of the movie, but there are only a few brief moments when you might consider being afraid of him as the bad guy in a suspense thriller. And that's too bad. The potential for actually hating him could have really moved the film along much closer to being the thriller it was intended to be.
And then there's Tommy Lee Jones. I don't mind him at all. A good actor, but to be honest, a disappointing one in this film for me because he didn't move beyond characters he'd already played. And again, I don't know that it was because of him or a poorly written script. The potentional for balancing sympathy against duty could have been better played in an effort to show movie viewers he understood Judd's character's motivation having gone through something so similar. But his part falls short because he never brings to the screen anything that he hasn't already played in other characters in other movies. On the whole, I was left feeling let down by his part for that very reason. I couldn't get past similarities to his characters in TF or even US MARSHALLS.
Despite the problems I had with the general execution of the plot and script, in all, the movie ends up working in spite of itself. It's solid (if a little weak), it's watchable, but it's just not the kind of thing that makes you jump in your seat or sit on the edge of it like other thriller or suspense movies are designed to. Three stars seems like plenty to account for these failings without being unkind. Rent it, yes. Buy it? I don't think I will, but your mileage may vary.