This was the first movie on my "older film" list to see, and it certainly was the best!  The movie was wonderfully witty and charming and had a fabulous plot.
The film is about Philadelphia heiress Tracy Lord (glamorous Katharine Hepburn) preparing for her second marraige to George Kittridge, a man who worked his way to the top.  Although George may be the working class hero, he is described as "below Tracy in mind and spirit."  Two years earlier, Tracy threw out her first husband, C. K. Dexter Haven (the charming Cary Grant), because of an alcoholic addiction.  Now Dexter wants revenge, and with the help of a blackmail article about Tracy's father, he gets in tabloid reporter Mike Connor (the FABULOUS Jimmy Stewart) and photographer Liz Imbrie (The witty Ruth Hussey) to do a piece on Tracy's wedding.  However, with only a day to the alter, Tracy's happy marraige plans spin out of whirl when its a race to the alter that anyone may win!
The highlights of the film I thought, was the comedic scenes.  Tracy's little sister Dinah is hilarious, and several scenes including a drunk Jimmy Stewart and Katharine Hepburn are terribly funny.  Full of memorable one liners (I'm just a photographer, I can't afford to hate anyone!), its the perfect quotable movie.  Sequences are brilliant, and the ending is EXTREMELY hard to predict!  Its romantic, witty, and easy to fall in love with.  I was totally in love with the movie after seeing it the first time.
Acting is superb, a wonderful comeback for Katharine Hepburn.  Cary Grant plays his suave sophisticated part better then ever, and Jimmy Stewart is DELIGHTFUL!  With 3 such famous names, its impossible to loose.  Stewart won an Academy Award, and it is well deserved.  The part, with Hepburn in mind, is perfect for her, classy and chic, yet still remaining human and goddess at the same time.  Cary Grant is perfectly matched in the movie with his debonaire looks and mild attitude.  Jimmy is strongly comedic in a drunk scene, as well as singing us a hilarious rendition of Somewhere Over the Rainbow.  Ruth Hussey is just as magnificent as Liz Imbrie, the top of the supporting cast.  Everyone is amazing, and the timing is fabulous.
The wonderful thing about this movie is that it is so reminiscent of a time that is gone...where you could see an adult movie without over-violence, sex swearing.  The closest you can get to any of the above is a swift punch to the jaw, "two kisses and a late night swim", and "dog gone it!"  Its a film the whole family can enjoy, the humor is timeless, and the plot is romanticly funny.
A true gem amoung gems, The Philadelphia Story is a wonderful movie with a wonderful cast.  I recommend the film to anyone, especially those who are fans of romantic comedy.  A must see, this is Hollywood in its heyday!