For better or worse human being are fascinated with these mythical creatures.  Because of that, the Vampire theme has been done over and over, so much so that it began to reach the point of diminishing returns.  "Been there, done that" to the extreme!  30 Days on Night is the first film about Vampires in a long time to actually try to give a fresh spin and new look to this very well mapped territory.  Here are some questions I believe the Film-makers tried to answer here: "Are vampires simply a grossly misunderstood minority group, or are they stone evil?"  "Are vampires wise and powerful creatures with hundreds of years of experience which they use to refine their game and who fully intend to win a fight with humans or are they just really powerful creatures with mediocre intelligence and very poor memories who are constantly surprised when humans fight back?"  If you like the Vampire sub-genre of the horror category than you know there are a few well defined "schools of thought" concerning the blood-suckers.  One takes the view that the concepts of right or wrong, good or evil are simply out dated notions!  That what is moral is defined by ourselves, for ourselves and the only true sin in not being true to yourself.  It further holds that no one outside your group can offer any meaningful critique of that group, i.e. only Sicilian mobsters can judge the Mafia, only people born and raised in a country can speak to that countries culture, etc.  Here the standard barer is Ann Rice and her endless fawning profiles of the poor misunderstood undead.  Here most of the Vampires are extremely good looking people with an incredible sense of style.  Females are like cast members from "America's Next Top Model" and males look like they just stepped off the pages of GQ.  Vampires are not the bad guys in her books as a class.  In fact, "they're just like us", good, bad, tragic, misunderstood, lonely, etc.  The "bad guys" are either over-zealous Vampire Killers or Vampires who have broken some more or less minor etiquette of the Vampire world.  Humans are just hopeless, myopic, "humanoid-centric" Vamp-o-phobes who react with extreme fear and violence to Vampires solely out of ignorance and raw, unbridled prejudice.  The prototypical example of this type of Vampire story would be "An Interview with a Vampire".  It was adapted to a movie with pretty boy Tom Cruise and Brad Prit preening around the screen trying to find Vampire happiness.  Another basis for the myth is very religion based.  The Vampires are agents of the Devil and do his work.  Humans are helpless against them save that we invoke God's power (I.E holy water, the Cross, etc) in humbleness and faith.  In this day and age that is pretty rare.  For an example you'd have to check out the old "Hammer" series.  Note: They are very old-school, but very effective scary movies!  30 Days... takes a very practical view: Vampires are a clan of Humanoid Creatures that regard Non-Vampiric humans like we would look at a slaughter house cow.  They jealously guard their realm and very strongly restrict the creation of new Vampires.  They also go into an encounter with humans with a stone cold mandate: We win, you lose!  They do not intend to allow any meaningful resistance from their prey and are clearly not interested in a "fair fight".  Wow!  This realistic approach is shockingly different from many films where the ferocious but stupid vampire(s) simply move into town, sets up shop, and then is shocked to discover that human beings get nosy and agitated when a string of unexplained disappearances and/or murders begin!  Here the Vampires pick a town that is so close to the Artic circle that they can frolic in a month long play land of No Sun and dozens of juicy humans to pick off at their leisure.  A few well placed moves (like a chess game)cutting off the town from the outside world and the good guys seem to be doomed.  Dare I say that the Vampires are taking Hemoglobin-based candy from a baby?  Ahh but even with the deck stacked heavily against them, maybe the Humans have a kick or two left in them!  Five stars and the most fun I've had watching a vampire movie in a long time.