I first saw the Big Lebowski when it came out in the cinema back in 98. At the time, my only experience with the Coens was the Hudsucker Proxy and Fargo. I could never work out why everyone loves Fargo so much - it's a well-made, fairly entertaining film to be sure, but apart from the one time I saw it in the cinema I've never felt compelled to watch it again. The Big Lebowski, however, is a film that I'm happy to watch over and over.

For me, the reasons for this are many and varied. Firstly, the film makes me laugh my head off. Sure, the central character is a stoner so instantly people will paint this as a stoner film but there's so much more to it than that. The dialogue and the way it's used is so much fun. Take, for instance, the many offhand comments that a uttered by one character and then picked up and used later on by other characters, like Maude's 'in the parlance of our times', which the Dude pulls out later on in a conversation with the Big Lebowksi. Or, the whole 'johnson' joke running through the film. Also, the hilariously convoluted conversations between the Dude, Walter, and the perpetually slow-witted Donny.

Secondly, after watching the movie a couple of times I really started to appreciate the classic film noir aspect of the plot. Ok, so the mystery isn't really that important, but it does at least make sense and rewatching it again does reveal clues here and there that tie into the mystery. And without the meandering plot, we'd never be introduced to so many entertaining characters.

Which brings me to the third reason I love the film: the characters. I haven't seen that many films where every character, whether they're important to the plot or just minor roles, is just so much fun to watch. There are the main characters of course, like Jeff Bridges' definitive portrayal of uber-slacker 'el duderino', John Goodman's classic turn as vietnam-obsessed Walter, Julianne Moore's oddly sexy artist(e), Donny, the character Steve Buscemi plays, who has more trouble following the course of a conversation than the pot smoking Dude, and of course the rich and ridiculously pompous Big Lebowski. However, even tiny roles are far more entertaining than they have any right to be, eg. Phillip Syemour Hoffman's smarmy offsider, the two cops who interview the Dude about his missing car, Jackie Treehorn the porn mogul (amusingly, the classiest character in the film), the Dude's weedy ballet dancing landlord, even the cop who shows the Dude to his recovered car ('they probably just used it as a toilet and moved on'). Even the car itself is entertaining, progressively becoming the victim of greater and greater misfortune until it finally bites the dust right near the end of the film.

Humour is a personal thing, so I can understand that not everyone will get into this film. However, if you can appreciate that sometimes plot can be  secondary to character and dialogue and still produce an entertaining film, then you should almost certainly get something out of this film.