Citizen Kane, like many great films of the period, usually require the viewer to gather at least some information about the film and its creation in order for it to be understood what an achievement the film really is.

Firstly, if you try watching the film for the first time without reading at least some information on it, then chances are probably you will think the film is boring. Like many old black and white films, modern viewers tend to think there boring because they lack many of the special effects the newer great films generally have. The film is old (1941) and the technology available to Welles (the director/writer/actor) was very limited. Also, some critics also believe that the film being in black and white also adds to the feeling that it maybe too long when in fact it is not. (The film is just shy of two hours).

Something that viewers should know about this is that the main subject of the film, though debated heavily by some, is generally agreed to be centered around the realities of the "American Dream". Succinctly, the dream of most Americans is too be born in extreme poverty (which was widespread at the time due to the great depression) and to grow up to be extremely successful which was personified at the time by being President.

World War II made the possibility of the American Dream to many millions of Americans which is the reason why Welles choose to portray the realities of that dream in his film. Kane, the main character, like the actual president himself, due to his immense success becomes separated and isolated from his real friends. His isolation becomes so complete that he sometimes has difficultly telling who his real friends are. The motif that success might not bring about happiness was actually an original idea at the time and played a major part in Welles winning the Oscar for best original screenplay.

Now, the motif has been so commonly used in today's films that the average viewer won't be able to appreciate the originality in it.

The film is also noted for being highly innovative as well in that camera angels used and the advent of the "deep focus". The use of camera angels to portray Kane's feelings in the film was a major innovation at the time that mostly goes unnoticed by most because it is SOOOOO commonly used. (For instance if Kane is feeling powerful the camera angel would view him from a floor view to show the he feels taller than the rest of those around him. And if he feels isolated, the camera usually shoots him from an upwardly angel to personify him being small and insignificant). The deep focus is when the camera is initially focused on an object that is near the camera and then is shifted to focus on object that is away from the camera (usually in the background). American Beauty, The Silence of the Lambs, Titanic, virtually ALL films (including the best films) you can think of have used the "deep focus" somewhere in the film.

Finally, this film is one of the precious few that actually benefit from multiple viewings. In fact, viewing this film more than one would probably be the only way you will be able to appreciate it, other than reading what has been written about it. I do agree though with what some viewers have said in that it is a major misfortune that it is considered to be the best film in history because many who do view it will try to criticize because of its immense critical acclaim.

If you like flashy, big budget Action films, with battle scenes, and explosions happening all of the time (Independence Day, Armageddon, Godzilla to name a few), you probably wont enjoy this film and I recommend you don't see it. To the film critic who has seen tens of thousands of film's in their lifetime a film like Citizen Kane comes around once in a century.

Citizen Kane is a film with a truly original story, (think of the plot in The Matrix), amazing film innovations (think of the sound use in Star Wars),  and spectacular acting (think of Charlize Theorn in Monster). If you can see that, then you will see why so many critic's around the world (even none English speaking ones!) consider this to be the greatest film in history.

NOTE: Orson Welles is the only individual in history to be nominated for the most prestigious Academy Awards: Best Actor, Best Director, Best Picture, Best Screenplay write.