First, let me say that I decided not to watch this movie when it came out summer 2003. I was so turned off from the first one (Fast & the Furious) that I though the sequel will be a waste of time & money (most sequels tend to flop nowadays). The cars in the first movie were ok, but there was no plot...basically none...nada!! Not to mention Ja Rule only showed up in the movie to get dissed? lolol...serves him right. Fast & Furious was lame overall, but Vin Diesel stole the show (hands down). So, I'm disappointed that he wasn't in this sequel though.

So I rented & watched the DVD 1yr later expecting to see another dumb sequel.

I was wrong...

This movie finally has a decent plot that gelled all parts of the movie together into one exciting rollercoaster ride.

The cars, were much better, waaaaay faster, not to mention the girls and the setting (how can u beat Miami?). The first race totally blew me away. Incredible Car Stunts!! Not to mention the cars. Skyline? Spider? Evo VII? The 2 Hemi monsters? American Muscle?...What more cars could u ask for Man? They even rolled out the whole pack of cars near the end. The police aren't that stupid. It's just flat-out fast paced action from the word "GO!" The driving maneuvres during all chases were well done.

Paul Walker's a pretty cool actor...I respect the man. Tyrese was just too funny. Eva Mendes is so pretty, that I've stopped dreaming of J-Lo. Ludacris & Devon Aoki look so cute together. Not to mention the villian (Cole Hauser), he was stoned cold. All the actors were tight.

How can I forget the soundtrack? All the tracks are flat-out club bangers that fit the scenes like a glove. That track during the buildup to the 1st race (when the skyline was driving in) was my favorite. You'll be feeling the beats for real.

To me this is one of the hypest movies I've seen that really lived up to it's name...definitely one of the best urban movies I've ever seen in a while now. You won't get tired of this movie, and you'll want to watch it over and over again. This movie is a keeper for all car-lovers.

Should they do "Fast & Furious 3" with Vin Diesel back in with Paul Walker, Tyrese in it, true justice will be surely be served.

This movie rocks! Why? It's all about the cars baby!