To the point, DO NOT MISS THIS "EXTENDED EDITION" if you are interested in the Swedish film/TV production of Steig Larson's novel of the same name (or either of the other two productions in the series).  WHETHER OR NOT you have already seen the seriously truncated (shortened, mangled) version which was earlier released on DVD, BD, and streaming, THIS IS NOT TO BE MISSED.  Unlike the previously released version, this "extended edition" provides a coherent presentation.  Being one of the inexplicably over the top fans of anything connected with the three Larsen novels (or associated biographies, etc), I read all three novels early this year and then waited with bated breath for the "movie" versions.  I was seriously disappointed with all three earlier, shortened movie releases, and particularly the last two of the three in the series.  This was because new characters suddenly showed up on the screen without either sufficient introduction, or even identification.  Or there were very significant holes in the story line (in addition to those already extant in the novels!).

As many of you will know, the three novels were filmed for Swedish television, with one film for each of the three novels.  This disc presents one of the three films as originally formed and appearing on Swedish television - each film, including this one, was broken into two segments of approximately 90 minutes in length, for a movie lasting a total of 180 minutes.  When the Swedish TV version was presented in American theaters (and DVDs and BDs, the latter which I own), it was re-edited, and seriously shortened.  As far as I am concerned, this ruined all three original "movie" presentations.

Despite the fact that the productions were evidently produced for first showing on Swedish TV, the production values (both sight and sound) are certainly comparable to those of first rate American movies.  This reviewer does not know but strongly suspects that the producers had ultimate theater showing in mind when the films were made.

And finally, the Amazon's streamed version of the Extended Edition is free of notable artifacts on this reviewer's 109 inch Stewart Screen - in the streamed version the color balance and brightness are good - the black levels, interfered with by encoding and transmission noise, do not equal that of the BluRay disc, but are certainly acceptable.  Needless to say, I was grateful and quite thrilled that the original version finally made it to market in Amazon's streamed version with Amazon's typical quality!