I honestly did not like this movie, like at all. And if you could look at my previous purchases I can tell you that I am a huge movie addict and am not a critique, those on this movie I am going all out: Roger-Ebert style...

CONS:
1. What was up with the main Character? was he literally slow or legally retarded, he had a whole bunch of ways to fight back and even more than one chance to get away and yet he sticks around as if he wants to die.
2. The lack of build-up for the characters, again who are they where do they come from, and WHO IN THEIR RIGHT STATE OF MIND would kill for GRANT money? You had the cliche blonde w#0re' , the obessed friend zone guy (the werewolf mask dude), the creepy Arteeest' as they like to call themselves(the guy who was dressed as a vampire at the beginning), the depressed outcast who hates the world and everyone else secretely(babe ruth/half snoopy wannabe), the typical Russian Mobster,  and the liar who was obviously lying about the grant money and who he was? Seriously
3. Filming location was even worse, I now understand why IMDB has this movie down as literally no budget, a guy like myself with a DSLR Camera could have probably filmed better.  There was no location appreciation the warehouse literally looked as if it was borrowed for free with other  peoples personal belongings.
4. There was NOTHING FUNNY about this movie at all, I was expecting something like Shaun of the Dead, Tucker & Dale vs. Evil, etc.. in other words Horror/Comedy! This was more like a Drama/Indie type film. and I am sorry I didn't notice until I read the blogs on this film that it proudly claims to be "Indie" which is a Genre of film-making that I despise because it is very subjective, and biased. Kinda like an inside Joke type of situation where you don't know what the flipper' is going on.
5. What was up with the costume? was it suppose to be a form of symbolism or what?? Come on dude take it off and your get away would have probably succeded from the get-go.
6. This movie is very good at decieving you from the Cover. There is literally no action or movement for a whole 50 or so minutes of the film. Then at the end the little action and movement we do see is really poorly played out.

My Goal is to make you the viewer aware of these things, if you like these type of College House/Low Budget Production Company/Indie Type/Slow Moving Movie...Then this is for you.

But it is not for me.