There is an old saying which I always adhere to..."If it ain't broke, don't fix it!" Eons of years experimenting with gene combinations has given Nature a one-up on humanity. So, why is it that we find ourselves delving into realms better left alone? SPLICE is an interesting and perhaps a more cerebral look at the us+them quandry. What is wrong with our species that we have an inate need to "fix" stuff? Often, this works to our general betterment.....then, there are the times we should have left well-enough alone!

I am a fan of scifi and the "alien" possibilities. In Splice the alien DNA is ours plus other Earthly genes. Sarah Polley and Adrien Brody make a believable couple of ambitious scientists desperately attempting to find a new protein and achieve auspicious merit in the genetics field. Having a corporate timeline nipping at their heels, Clive and Elsa go beyond the point of ethical acceptability and create a new human hybrid. Dren is a quasi-human being of dubious character within an ever-changing form.

Watching the interaction of the scientists attempting to cope with the fallout of their experiment is fascinating. At some point, we must confront ourselves and ask what we would do in this situation. Not only is there conflict between Elsa and Clive, but as things progress also between Dren and her creators. How are we to cope with the unknown? At what point do we pull the plug? What makes us human? What makes us inhuman? Ethics....when did they disappear in the race for glory and/or money?

Splice is not a slasher movie. It takes the scenario and runs with it to some places we would rather never go! This is a thinking person's storyline. If you are so inclined, it makes you ponder where the future of science is headed. Are we ready for the eventualities? Or, to misquote from "Jurassic Park"..."Just because we can, doesn't mean we should!"

The special effects in this movie are well-done and create a believable creature(s). We can understand how Clive becomes drawn to Dren and how Elsa embraces her own intrinsic mothering instincts. As a creation in CG, Dren works. However, it is the character/personality of this creation which draws us into the plot, rather than the physicality, however appealing.

I advise those who watch SPLICE not to assume anything going in. Do not try to figure it out! Just let the characters and storyline take you to an unexpected place and enjoy the ride. This is a film where the journey is the prize, not the destination!

Finding this little treasure in the theatre, I will end up buying on dvd in the near future. Some ideas are well worth running with and this has given me food for thought. Would love to see a "Re-Spliced" as may be promised by the ending : ) Howz about it Sarah? Sequel please! : )

Enjoy!