4.5/5 The best parts of 'The Langoliers' are the acting and the directing. This never feels like a TV show. It feels like a solid theatrical release that is at times, inspired.

This isn't perfect of course, but the only flaws that stick out like a sore thumb are a few odd lines of flat dialogue. This all adds up to about 3 or 4 minutes of drag out of a three hour release. This is important, as 'The Langoliers' is all dialogue, like a stage play. In fact, this could be made into a stage play with little effort. So the fact that the dialogue is almost entirely solid is very important. It is not the best you will ever hear in film, but it is good enough, that top level acting talent will make it great. That is, fortunately, exactly what 'The Langoliers' has in David Morse, Dean Stockwell, and particularily Bronson Pinchot, who deserved an Emmy for his performance. His character stole the show throughout, and his scenes in particular, were the most inspired here.

The directing is fantastic, though my only qualm is that airplanes land with the head pointing up, not down. Also, people have criticized the characters for standing at times too long before taking action. I offer that people really do stand around in shock when faced with a traumatising experience. It never gets drawn out too long, and someone is always there to shake the character into sense. Otherwise, the director and camera people make this feel like a theatrical release at the A level rather than some low budget TV episode. The visual representation is at times inspired at a level of 'The Shawshank Redemption', though particularily surrounding the Craig Toomy character and in portraying an empty world.

The driving point about your enjoyment of 'The Langoliers' sits squarely in the believability factor. It has a particular take on time travel that you must be able to accept, or you will start finding sillyness in the film. It doesn't need to be a true take on time travel, just a creative one IMO, and 'The Langoliers' is creative. This film manages to explain its theories rather well, so true or not, it understands the ideas it presents. Is this as good as 'The Shawshank redemption' or 'The Green Mile'? I have a very hard time making that comparison. It's in a category of its own.

In closing, Bronson Pinchot puts on one of the most fantastic acting performances I have ever seen in a motion picture. Chances are, even if this film is not in your interest, you will appreciate his performance. It's a classic.