This is a top notch piece of software for anyone's BD catalog.  This movie is quite beautiful and it is a piece of cinematic history being the 2nd Disney film behind Snow White.

Picture:
Being that the animation standards for the 30s are very different from today's the animation in this film is superlative.  The color palates are great and it really jumps off the screen in 1080p.  Just as I was amazed with Sleeping Beauty on BD this is another great movie that they restored beautifully.  I always remember this being longer but it was really good to see it again.

For the people that complain about the aspect ratio 4:3, Disney went so far as to get a great artist (can't remember his name off the top of my head) to fill in the black bars on the sides of the picture with art related to the current scene so it looks very showcase like and doesn't take away from the show at all.

Sound:
There are few companies out there that are using the best codec's for sound with their BD releases.  Lionsgate and Disney are the two that really stand out to me.

7.1 DTS-HD MA is beautiful and if you have a decoder (receiver) and the speakers to do it I would recommend nothing less than listening to it this way.  You can hear everything and it just makes this movie that much better.

For the purists the original score and soundtrack are still on the disk and you can watch it that way too.

Special Features:
There are a ton of features here about how it was made, the restoration, alternate endings (sketch art) and a lot of others.  If you really want to sit down and learn about how this classic was made they will explain it to you.  It even talks about Disney's editing process and how he analyzed every single aspect of this movie to put out his best product.  It probably drove everyone crazy that worked on this but when you aren't the boss what can you really do.

Overall:
This is a great value here on Amazon because you should pay the [...] bucks at least for this.  I am glad I ordered this and I will continue to support Disney if they keep remaking the classics like this one.  I can't wait for Snow White on BD.  That is going to be sweet!

-fin