Margaret Cho pushes the comedic envelope yet again in this sublimely hilarious DVD where she discusses everything from W's inability to properly pronounce the word nuclear along with her impersonation of Condoleezza Rice informing W how it should be said to battling the overwhelming urge to poo in her pants (brought on by her all persimmon diet) while driving her car with no nearby bathroom and her surrendering to the inevitable mess to an outrageous impersonation of Gollum (this is not Asian chicken salad!) to recounting the disturbing disaster of a friend giving birth to her child and her vagina literally exploding apart onto Margaret.

I also want to give her a big pat on the back for the Merchant & Ivory gag (purveyors of quality period films with lavish costumes and authentic accents) and the list of characters she will not play upon the screen: the smiling submissive manicurist, the angry Korean convenience store owner with a gun, or a deliriously lethargic opium addict in her den (the only role she could ever hope to have in a Merchant & Ivory film); so few people in the industry are willing to lose money and exposure to make a stand against such banal and harmful stereotypes and she deserves a round of applause for it! (Yes, she should be given a pat on the back and a round of applause.)

This is not for the faint of heart nor staunch conservatives for Margaret does not censor her thoughts-if it pops into her mind she says it; how many of us would ring our friends to tell them that you just pooped in your pants?

I also enjoyed her ever shifting personas and I have to wonder if she might have multiple personalities or is that yet another display of her dazzling talent?

There are also several bonus features including her "Top 10 Jacked People of 2004" where she discusses with her friend, the one from the start of the main feature (cannot remember his name), ten famous people that were mistreated, sometimes deservingly so, by the media in the last year and footage from when she was at Sacramento, California in support of gay marriage.

My only complaint is that there was less political humor in it than in The Notorious C.H.O. but this is a minor thing that only a political/media junky like myself would notice and it does not detract from the DVD's quality; but, if I had my way at least half her act would be political humor but that would not work too well in America where the vast majority of people are utterly ignorant about what is happening in the political arena.

This is humor for fans of The Office, Absolutely Fabulous, Southpark, The Simpsons, and Chappelle's Show.