This is one of Hitchcock's most carefully crafted films. Hitch's daughter once acknowledged that Hitch hated the 3D process, but the methodical way he used 3D to accentuate nearly every scene showed an awareness of how the film should look in the theaters.

Originally shot for projection with polarized glasses, the film was never released in 3D. As much as audiences loved the depth effect, so many bad movies had been rushed into the theaters in 3D that audiences began avoiding 3D films. However, the film has had some rare 3D showings over the years and has gained something of a cult status for 3D fans, much as House Of Wax has.

The package says the film has been digitally remastered. That may be so, but this is a disappointing transfer. First, the film has been reformatted from its original 1.33:1 ratio to a 16:9 format to match wide screen HDTV sets. This means the top and bottom of the frame must have been cropped. Second the video seems slightly out of focus and the color balance feels off. The image looks like it's standard definition, not HDTV. And third, the "window" effect has been adjusted so that things that were designed to pop out of the screen -- like Grace Kelly's hand in a key scene (no spoilers here) -- no longer have the same impact.

Warner Bros is planning a 3D release of House Of Wax and other films. I hope they do not make the same mistake there. House Of Wax was designed for things to pop way out of the screen and that was half the fun. But many producers are making the mistake of thinking that everything has to be kept behind the "window." Nonsense.

Taking all of the above into consideration, this is still an important release, because it demonstrates what a brilliant director with a good script can do with 3D, using it to make his points without having to resort to cheap gimmicks.

I give credit to Warner Bros for the effort, but I'm beginning to wonder why so many classic films of the past are simply not looking as crisp as they should when they finally make it to Blu-Ray.