A "thriller" need not be breathlessly paced or hyper-kinetically edited. It need not be graphically violent or sprinkled with sex. A good thriller can be intelligent and embrace the virtues of character and context and still deliver the goods before the credits roll. If you doubt it, go see Michael Clayton.

A legal thriller by definition is usually more intelligent than other commercial film genres, but Tony Gilroy's directorial debut is smarter than most. Working from his own script, he fashions a story that moves slowly and carefully along its path, observing great detail and giving all of the characters room to breathe. The title character in particular, (George Clooney in fine form) fully inhabits the space around him, living a life recognizable to the audience, not lost in the mysterious parallel universe that most Hollywood thrillers occupy. He is a lawyer working for a big law firm, but instead of a superstar trial lawyer, he is the firm's "fixer", cleaning up untidy messes for important clients and the big names who he works for. The job has worn him down so that his ideals and ambition have long been discarded and weariness has overtaken him. Clooney's performance beautifully captures all of this in solid, unshowy fashion.

At times you may wonder if the movie is losing its way, so unhurried is its attitude, but then it turns a corner and regains its focus and suddenly this quiet, meandering story hones in and develops real suspense and a solid payoff that is earned and not contrived. The seeming inattention to genre conventions has kept the audience off-balance just enough to make the final scene more satisfying than one was expecting.

Tom Wilkinson and Sydney Pollack contribute solid supporting work, but Tilda Swinton provides ample evidence why she is among the finest actors in film today in her portrait of a corporate lawyer struggling to keep up with the moral quicksand in which she is mired. It is fascinating performance of a modern-day monster, all the more effective for the plain, unglamorous look she gives the character.