I first saw the Sound of Music when I was in the first grade. I remember liking the songs  (Do-Re-Mi was always a favorite) but not understanding the story at all. The six -year old me never did quite get the whole Nazi part of the film. It wasn't until years later I understood what the red flag with the weird spider, as Gretl (or was it Brigita?) calls it, really meant, and it was then I fully comprehended the heaviness of the third act of the film.

As I was going through a musical dvd shopping spree I decided to revisit the Von Trapp family. Realizing that the time I saw it in 1st grade was the ONLY time I had actually seen the film. 20 years later I sat down to watch Julie Andrews sing about the hills being alive and a few of her favorite things, and I was riveted from start to finish. I half expected to stop the dvd or skip a few chapters, but instead I was enthralled in the story line which I could now, as an adult, both understand and appreciate.

While the threat of the Nazi regime's take over of Austria is woven throughout the story, it does not take center stage. What is at the heart of this film is the power of music and how it can save a life and awaken the soul.

Up until Maria's arrival at the Von Trapp household (or should I say mansion, the place is huge!) Captain Von Trapp treats his children like little soldiers--they march and stand at attention at his command, and respond to his whistle like dogs.  Maria's entrance into the household brings tenderness and the showing of love back into the home.  What follows is an endless parade of musical magic, songs that stay stuck in your brain and moments that make the hairs on the back of your neck stand up.

As a viewer you bare witness to the evolvement of a man and his family who are captivated by sweet Maria, and the flourishing of a love between a man and a woman. It was a story that was so good I didn't want it to end. As the filmed closed, and the camera pans back to reveal the family making their way through the mountains, I found myself truly sorry to say "so long, farewell, auf Weiderseshen, good night."

The film is truly lovely, and the Blu-ray presentation is spectacular. A must see!