Madagascar is a funny, hip and all around great movie.  Dreamworks Animation release before that Shark Tale wasn't all to great as it went into hip hop rap type thing, and I hope animated movies don't jump ship like Shark Tale.  But Madagascar is a great movie.  My five year old son wanted to see this, so he dragged me along, and I wasn't expecting too much, but to tell you the truth, I enjoyed almost as much as he did, and he LOVED it.  We had to go get Madagascar stuffed animals the next day.  The voices are great, they fit their characters perfect.  Unlike Shark Tale, Martin Scorcese as a blowfish?  David Schwimmer fits Melman perfectly, and Jada Pinkett Smith voices Gloria the Hippo with style.  Ali G is great as King Julian, Cedric The Entertainer is great as Maurice and of coarse, Andy Ritcher provides a cute little voice for Mort, the little cute lemur. Here's the story:

Four friends living in the central park zoo, Alex the Lion (Ben Stiller), Marty The Zebra (Chris Rock), Gloria the Hippo (Jada Pinkett Smith) and Melman the Giraff (David Schwimmer)live a carefree life.  On Marty's 10th birthday, he finds out the penguins, who steal every scene their in, are digging to Antarctica, the wild.  Marty decidedes he wants to go to the wild. So one night he escapes.  Alex, Gloria and Melman know he's heading to Grand Central Station to get a train to Cennaticut.  So they go after him, only to be crated up in boxes, and put on route to Africa.  But when those crazy penguins hijack the ship, the four friends fall overboard and wash up on the shore of Madagascar.  When meeting a bunch of partying lemurs, Alex freaks out, while Marty is happy that their in the wild.  The lemurs live life in partying and in worrying, as the dreaded Fossa attack them and rip them limb from lumb as quoted by King Julian.  So they want Alex to protect them, as the Fossa are frightened of Alex, but King Julian (Sacha Baron Cohan aka Ali G)'s sidekick Maurice (Cedric The Entertainer) disagrees with the plan.  Without food though, Alex's instinct is getting the better of him, and Marty may be on the menu for food.

It may not have much of a plot, but not many kids movies do.  But, it's a great movie like Shrek and all of Pixar's movies, and provides kids with goofy gags and adults with adult humor that flies right over the kids heads, which make it perfect for adults and kids a like.