PLOT: Recently divorced Lucy Emerson (Diane Wiest) and her two teenage sons, Michael (Jason Patric) and Sam (Corey Haim), are packing up and moving from Phoenix to Santa Carla, California ("the murder capital of the world"). They (along with their dog Nanook) are going to live with her father (Barnard Hughes), a taxidermist. Santa Carla is a summer town and the most popular place around is the board walk. One night, Michael and Sam go to the board walk to watch a live concert. Suddenly, Michael's eye is caught by a beautiful girl (Jami Gertz) in the crowd. His "dream girl" eventually leaves, so naturally he decides to try and follow her. Sam complains about having to follow Michael around, so he decides to stop at a comic book shop instead. The shop is run by a couple of strange teenage brothers named Edgar (Corey Feldman) and Allen Frog (Jamison Newlander). The two give Sam a horror comic about vampires. Sam says that he doesn't like horror comics, but the two guarantee that he'll like it and that it may save his life. Michael eventually finds the girl, but finds her leaving with some biker friends of hers. Lucy finds a job working at the board walk video rental store, which is run by a seemingly nice guy named Max (Edward Herrmann). The next day, Michael and Sam return to the board walk. Sam goes back to the comic book shop, where the Frog brothers hint around the fact that Santa Carla hides an unusual secret. Michael runs into the beautiful girl, who introduces herself as Star. Star then introduces Michael to her four biker friends, led by David (Kiefer Sutherland). David invites Michael to a gathering at their "place." Michael accepts the invitation, not knowing that he is getting into a lot more than he bargained for.

COMMENTS: Joel Schumacher's The Lost Boys is a delightful film and easily one of the Top 10 best vampire films of all time. This is an '80s classic and one of my fondest memories of growing up in the 1980s. The project was originally started by "Goonies" director Richard "Dick" Donner (who eventually served as executive producer.) Originally the story line was more like "The Goonies" with vampires (a film intended for kids.) When Schumacher took over the project, he decided to change the characters to teenagers (a good move on his part.) It became a huge hit when it was finally released. The film has a perfect blend of horror as well as comedy. It boasts a vintage cast as well as a fitting soundtrack. The title is a reference to the disciples of Peter Pan, who never grew old and never died (just like vampires.) Greg Cannom did a superb job with the make-up. I would recommend this film to just about anybody. This new 2-disc special edition is presented in a widescreen theatrical format. It also features a ton of extras including the theatrical trailer, deleted scenes, commentary by Joel Schumacher, Lou Gramm's "Lost In The Shadows" music video, a retrospective documentary, "Vamping Out" featurette on the undead creatures, "The Return of Sam and Frog Brothers: The 2 Coreys and Jamison Newlander" - multiangle video commentary, "Inside the Vampire's Cave" - 4 featurettes, an interactive map, and a photo gallery.