Love, Love, Love this movie!! I saw it at the theater when it first came out and thought it was okay.
I then watched it a year or two ago and really liked it better.
Now, I just finished watching it again, in my living room, lights off, fan humming, and...wow!
I'm in love!
The movie is all about mood and atmosphere,so,to truly feel its vibe, you need to tune out the world for 90 minutes and just let it take you.
If your talking, getting up, eating...whatever, forget feeling the magic of the film.
If your looking for a quick scare, don't hold your breath.
What your watching is really designed to be just one long, feverish nightmare.
Sure, it's got a Freddy-Fever thing going on and it's virtually a remake of 'Don't be afriad of the Dark' with actress Laura Regan filling Kim Darby's shoes.
But the sleepy style has it's own little 'creepy crawly' thing going on. If you are a true horror movie fan, someone who thinks outside of the box, you will at least appreciate the tension weaved through each scene and the film-nor like flavor.
What also helps is the outstanding cast. Laura Regan may not be, in my opinion, a great actress but she sure does look strange and haunted throughout the film. (not to mention that she has one helluva long neck!) She was also in another little film called 'My little Eye' and she looked just as spooked in that one. Good movie by the way!
I also love Ethan Embry! He's so bizarre, but adorable at the same time. I'm surprised he hasn't made a name for himself, commercially that is. He's really a fantastic actor. He's been in so many off-beat movies like,Dutch, Empire Records, and Disturbing Behavior, just to name a few. He's really awesome to watch......
and another thing, even though I'm not into alternate
endings found on many DVDS as a special feature (I feel one solid ending is all I need. I hate when the producers feel as if I need to see 'another conclusion' to the story. All it reminds me of is that what I just watched was a commercial product and more than one hand was mixing the stew. It's like I just witnessed a 'choose your own adventure story' which is rather lame. I recall the movie 'Joyride' having more than three endings on the DVD. Come on!? Talk about loosing the magic of what I just watched. Yuck!
However, in this case,the alternate ending is pretty cool and doesn't really take away from the first one.
But I really, really liked the theatrical ending, compared to the 'Wizard of Oz' like finale.
Great stuff here Wes! Goosebumps for sure! I'm a huge avid movie lover,especially horror, I live and breath this stuff. And I will have to say, 'Wes Craven's They' is a nice little creepy dark ride. If...you let loose yourself feel the vibe.
My favorite all time movie, the one that made me fall in love with film, is, Tobe Hooper's The FUNHOUSE. sO, I'm all about dark style and ambiance, and that film has it in spades.....however, that's for another time to talk about it.