Last week, I saw "That Thing You Do!" on one of the cable movie channels. I had not seen it for a while and had a couple of hours staring me down, so I sat back and watched it. The film itself is a nice piece of work by Mr. Hanks. He did himself proud. And that song! What a catchy, get-under-your-skin-in-your-brain pop tune!

Then, two days later, I was in Best Buy (humming That Thing You Do, by the way) and this new edition DVD appears before me unexpectedly, on sale. Without thinking, I bought it, took it home and I have watched it three times since (the theatrical release, once and the extended version, twice) and I will watch many times more.

This new release of That Thing You Do! underscores why "The Director's Cut" genre in DVD releases has become so invaluable to film aficionados like myself.

The theatrical version is priceless (still), but the "Director's Cut" is incredible and a major revelation. So many gaps in the plot have been filled in (gaps that I wasn't even aware of, so well put-together was the original version). This newer version has made the film a mini-masterpiece.

As in the original, the cast is excellent, the plot is believable and charming, the performances are funny, vibrant, true-to-life, and in this version, quite poignant.

Charlize Theron's character, Tina, and her relationship with Guy, in particular, suddenly become crucial elements to the early plot development (she is a minor character in the original version). Her character is fleshed-out, and she has one HYSTERICAL scene (in the dentist's chair) that caught me so off-guard with its humour, that I nearly choked to death with laughter!!

Even Tom Hanks character as the group's manager, Mr. White, becomes more developed and there is an interesting scene and dialogue when the group is in Los Angeles at "the same hotel Lucy and Ricky stayed at" between Guy (who is gently drunk), Mr. White and a guy named Lloyd.

Even The Bass Player (the Wonder's bass player who is never given a name), played by the adorable Ethan Embry, has a scene or two not in the original film that adds to the sweetness of his character (as well as some sly sexiness).

Liv Tyler's role as Jimmy's girlfriend, Faye, becomes even more developed and she is such a marvelous actress in this film. She really is the heart and soul of the movie, and the newer version only adds to her wonderful mystique in this film.

And of course, Steve Zahn as Lenny, is still as funny as ever and is the one band member who has no fear to "push the envelope" and ride the roller-coaster of success to wherever it takes them.

I recommend this new version of "That Thing You Do!" whole-heartedly. Whether it is the original or the extended-cut, it is a lively, spirited, upbeat and thoroughly delightful viewing experience.

And, I am STILL humming "That Thing You Do!"