"The Great Raid" is no "Saving Private Ryan" or "Thin Red Line", but it tells an important story revolving around a much over-looked theater of WWII.

Although there are some horrific scenes of what the Japanese did to their American captives, I think the atrocities are depicted in a slightly watered-down manner. Becasue I felt it "held back" a little, it was a less impactful film for me, personally. From what I have read about the subject, it was pretty gruesome. But If the film's purpose was to re-tell history - and not too graphically - then fine. It did an OK job.

The biggest problem/s I have with this movie is that it is very slow-moving, and the characters are rather one-dimensional. I want to hate the guts of the Japanese commandant, but he is such a cartoon character that I look upon him with indifference. Likewise, I want to get to know the American G.I.'s and Rangers. But, again, their characters are never really developed. They're boring people in a bland clich&eacute;-filled environment.

I was expecting the film to begin with a depiction of the American's gallant but ill-fated stand while, trapped on the Island with no help coming, followed by some scenes of the grim "Bataan Death March". But, instead we get a fast-forward of actual news reel footage that doesn't really do the job of introducing the story very well. There's also a very thin (and fictional) romantic sub-plot involving a Dutch nurse, who works with the Philippino underground, and one of the POW's. It never really matures or has much of a place in the film other than an occasional reference during conversations amongst some POW's. The "token romance", if you will, that attempts to breathe some emotion into the film. But, it falls way short.

The best part of the film was the last 20 minutes or so - the raid itself. It was well done with good action. It's what earned the film three stars from me.

In summary... "The Great Raid" is a WWII film that doesn't quite fall into the same league of epic war film as "Private Ryan" or "Glory". Too bad. It tells an important story and deserved the same quality production.