This is a great action movie from the late 1980's. It holds up quite well and does not appear dated in any way. The HD visuals found in this bluray have done the movie justice, as Rambo's blood and sweat is clearly defined and the environments offer great detail. I am greatly astonished that this film in the original Rambo trilogy was critically and commercially trashed in the box office. The movie itself is full of non-stop explosive action. Unlike the first (which does offer a good story), or the cheesy second in Vietnam that was merely alright. The first two clearly don't hold up as well in HD, as the superior action oriented third. I hate when retards bash a movie for deviating from its original story or because it does not offer enough character development. For those individuals they can find what they want by just reading a book! I personally watch a movie for its sheer entertainment value, and if I seek more in the subject matter then I would just watch a documentary. These individuals who bash a movie for its unrelenting action and explosions, essentially kill any possible future sequels. The movies I know that have suffered this fate was of course Rambo 3 in the 80's, which the public clearly spoke by hardly making a dent in its box office numbers(and you dare call yourselves Rambo fans!) There are also other movies, like "The Chronicles of Riddick," which obviously was not like Pitch Black with its heavier action scenes that was too much for some folks, which essentially killed any possibility for a third movie in the franchise. Also, there is "Terminator Salvation", which was a great modern take on the franchise with its direction clearly veering into a dark future war introduced in the original movies. I just believe people should enjoy movies for what they are, and stop complaining about what there not!!! The same could be said about the recent movie "Battle: Los Angeles", that was bashed for its heavy action emphasis. Those of you that are constantly getting your unbelievable expectations hurt your just ruining it for everyone else by killing any future sequels with your hate! Consequently, destroying what could otherwise be a great action extravaganza on bluray!!!