The all-time outrageous, satirical, crossdressing extravaganza, Some Like It Hot is one of the most hilarious, raucous films ever made. The ribald film is a clever combination of many elements: a spoof of 1920-30's gangster films and romance in a screwball comedy with one central joke - entangled and deceptive identities, reversed sex roles and cross-dressing.
When Chicago musicians Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) accidentally witness the infamous St Valentine's Day massacre, they decide to flee Chicago but the only ticket out of town for two broke musicians is a gig in Miami, Florida. There's just one catch: it's an all-girl band. So Joe and Jerry board a southbound train to Florida disguised as Josephine and Daphne. Their cover is perfect until a lovelorn singer falls for "Josephine", an ancient playboy falls for Daphne, and a mob boss refuses to fall for their hoax.
They become fast friends with the band's most trouble-prone member, Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe) whose dream is to meet a millionaire in Florida and live the good life. The film follows both Curtis and Lemmon as they try to simultaneously hide the fact that they are in drag, whilst practicing cruel deceptions -Curtis has Monroe thinking she's met a millionaire, and millionaire Joe. E. Brown thinks Lemmon is a woman. This comedy is a movie that's about nothing but sex and yet pretends it's about crime and greed. Curtis lusts for Monroe and disguises himself as a millionaire to win her. Monroe lusts after money and gives him lessons in love. Their relationship is flipped and mirrored in low comedy as Lemmon gets engaged to a real millionaire, played by Joe E. Brown. Wilder's gender-bending and risqu&eacute; comedy, is filled with sly sexual innuendo, parodies of sexual stereotypes, sexy costuming for the well-endowed, bosomy Marilyn Monroe, an outrageous and steamy seduction scene aboard a yacht, and a mix of serious themes including abuse, alcoholism, unemployment, and murder among others.
The non-stop action, slapstick and reminiscent one-liners encouraged critics and movie goers alike to compare Widler's film to Marx Brothers classics, especially in the slapstick chases as gangsters pursue the heroes through hotel corridors.