Funny Games opens with a happy family of three sitting in a car, playing guessing games with classical music. Two hours later, games of an altogether different sort have been played, with guns, knives and golf  clubs.
The film's plot could be described as flimsy if you wanted to be  positive, virtually non-existent if you didn't. Two youths (one fat, dim  and awkward, the other slim, intelligent and cruel, both psychotic) clad in  t-shirts, shorts and plastic gloves pop over to a holiday home one summer  and terrorise the family of three living there, making a bet with them that  they'll all be dead before morning. But where the plot fails to astound,  the film in general succeeds, in many places with flying colours.
As a  straightforward attempt to shock, this could be average at best, but  fortunately Funny Games does not take itself too seriously. In fact, for  "too seriously", read "not seriously at all" - there  are several moments in the film where "Paul" (one of the slim  youth's many aliases) turns to the camera and asks the viewer which plot  development would be more fun, and at one point he even turns and winks at  you, as if sharing a private joke.
Although the mentions of guns and  knives and the obviously ironic title may have you believe otherwise, Funny  Games has barely any on-screen violence. There's blood, yes, but nearly all  of it is either running down walls or staining clothes and skin - for the  most part, all you'll hear are thuds, bangs and shrieks of pain, and while  this may disappoint the more extreme cinemagoer, it's still an extremely  effective method.
The film's main criticism is that perhaps it tries a  little hard to be different, and in doing so occasionally gets a little too  surreal for its own good - the little knowing looks to the viewer are  tolerable, but the scene in which Paul rewinds time with a remote control?  As the saying goes, puh-LEASE.
All in all, however, Funny Games is an  extremely underloved film, and one that should be described as an  overlooked classic in years to come.