Just a short review as everything that could be said has probably been written already.  For all its purported choppiness, I quite liked the original, shorter release of this film, found the script and performances to be stellar in spite of the "choppiness" (like how Bloom becomes a great sword fighter with what seems to be little training).  So I was very intrigued by the reports that THIS is the version to watch, and as the director comments in this version, this isn't a release just for his own gratification, but bluntly points out he wasn't happy with the edits that were made - and if people think some parts are slow, this is where the story all ties together (including the fact that the main character had served as a soldier in the past).  I agree there are a few "slow" parts, but there is nothing to lose your interest and there is nothing here that does not further the story - nothing is thrown in for the sake of it. Also, there are no bloated cringe-filled melodramatics as I found in Mel Gibson's "The Patriot", for instance, that I found irritating.

A classy, intelligent, well done film, perfectly cast, and if Orlando Bloom doesn't QUITE have the force of personality that can completely pull off a big inspirational speech, he is perfect at quiet grim determination, snarky comments, and struggling with pain and guilt, or when put into an awkward situation.  Just loved Eva Green in this - she is perfect.  Scott's cinematography and spectacular battle scenes succeed in just the right ways - you can feel the desert sand in your face.  I think this film never got the credit it deserves - one critic bemoaned (when this movie was released) how Scott somehow watered down the Christian/Muslim strain - but personally, as a historical film, what was Scott supposed to do? Depict terrorist attacks?  I think this film accurately depicts those who strove to live together in the Holy City, as well as the fanatical greedy element of the Crusades - pays respect to history.  If you never saw the "short" version this one is worth the price.  Only thing, if there was supposed to be some sort of accompanying booklet in the box, mine was missing it - I could complain but how often am I going to read a booklet anyway.