Synopsis: Communication is re-established between family members separated by 30 years and an untimely, heroic death. By the use of a HAM radio and coincidental flaring of major sun spots/flares a father and son are granted a reunion. The question is: "If you have the chance to alter the past for your own betterment do you worry about reprecussions, if any, in the present/future?"
As much as this story tries to make Dennis Quaid out to the leading man/hero type I'm afraid he's lost a little bit of his luster in my eyes. He's not collecting social security or anything, but he doesn't have the same spunk that we're used to him having in his last good movie....say "Innerspace","D.O.A" or "The Big Easy" at least a five years ago.
As predictable as this movie could have been there were enough mind traps and confusion between simultaneous parallel dimensions and time warps to throw off anybody in this twist-of-a- twister. If you've seen "Dead Again!" and a few episodes of Quantam Leap I think you'd get the jist of this movie pretty quick.
Myself, not being a huge fan of a twist-on-a- twisters I do appreciate the one quality this type of thriller possesses. Things can get so intermingled that just about anything is possible and there can be one of a hundred possible endings. 
With that I leave it up to you to decide...suitable for any age probably 15 or above as it does get a bit complicated. The acting was decent although not stellar. 
I give it a C (73/100)because it's been done before. I've seen worse. If you've seen "Dead Again!" and liked it you'll probably like this movie. Conversely, if you see/have seen this and liked it you would love "Dead Again!". Better acting and even stranger twist. 
DVD Special features: There are two commentaries(neither of which I listened to because it's a school night - one by the director and one by the screen writer and an actor). 
There is a brief chronological progression of the animation at the start of the movie. This is kind of trivial because I didn't give it a second thought at the time. 4 progression last less than a minute with almost no explanation. 
Lastly, there is some science behind the feasability of parellel dimension/time travel stuff. I'm sure it was fascinating, but like I said...it's a school night. Actor bios and filmographies are also included