I lean slightly to the left, but I like to be open minded so I thought I'd see this film.

The film basically tries to do a point/counter-point argument against some of Moore's opinions in F9/11. The most powerful and effective are new interviews of a few people who were in Moore's film who thought they were not represented fairly. How well you think the rest of the film was made will depend on your bias.

I agree that the film relied too much on right-wing "experts" to counter Moore. For instance, a good piece of the film relies on the two men who wrote the book "Michael Moore is a Big Fat Stupid White Man," whom clearly have a bias. The men seem more concerned with smearing Moore's image than corrected inaccuracies of information. It's pretty much epitomized when the fat bald guy says something to the effect of "Moore is unAmerican, he's not Canadian, he must be French." Then his little friend snickers like a weasel. A public service announcement of Project VoteSmart this is not. Was I really expected to believe these guys over Moore?

One of the most memorable parts of Moore's film was the sequence that showed Bush in the classroom after being told, "America is under attack." Fahrenhype basically argued that Bush didn't want to alarm the American public by making any sudden moves. First of all, who was watching Bush live in the classroom? Nobody. Everyone I know was glued to news channels like CNN watching live footage of NYC. Was it even being broadcasted live? Wasn't it just for publicity?  Second, it doesn't explain the scared and lost look on his face which left such a strong impression on myself. They are sure to make clear that Bush actually did nothing for 5 minutes, not 7.

I was annoyed by Fahrenhype's constant attempts to make the viewer think Bill Clinton was at the root of all conspiracies--clearly a Republican bias.

It gives a typical Republican argument for supporting the Iraq war, which we've all heard a thousand times, so it is unlikely to change any opinions. Nothing new or stimulating is presented, just interviews of a few soldiers who were clearly conservative.

Often Fahrenhype would state a damning "fact," yet not give any hints at the source of the information. This is absolutely crucial! I guess the film expects you to believe it to be a reliable source of information--more reliable than Moore's film.

Finally, I noticed there was a lot of zooming in and out on interviewee's faces, as well as switching back and forth from color to B&W, which made me wonder if they had done a lot of editing and were trying to hide the copy-and-pasting of words and sentences.

If you don't know where you stand on the political compass see both films. If you prefer Moore's then you're probably a liberal, if you prefer this one then you're probably a conservative. Personally, I took this and Moore's film for what they probably are, propaganda.