Most of the previous reviewers (who have reviewed the movie itself rather than the DVD, which isn't out yet) have done a fine job of reviewing the movie.  I consider their reviews accurate, and I too loved the movie.  Yes, the critics you'll read in the newspapers find the movie boring.  That's because they find religion boring and offensive.  For people who believe in Jesus Christ rather than James Bond, going to the theater this Christmas season to see The Nativity Story, and then buying it for future Christmas seasons, is a really good idea.  I'd hesitated to go based on who directed the film, but it turned out well (if you get too picky about perfection in directors and actors, you miss great films like The End of the Spear).  Not perfectly (I'm not sure, for example, that the Wise-Men-as-comedy-troupe works so well), but very well, especially as a story not just about baby Jesus but also about Mary and Joseph.

I write simply to address the question one person asked about whether the movie is appropriate for preteens.The movie begins with Herod's soldiers raiding Bethlehem to kill the male babies.  No babies get sliced up onscreen, but it's clear that is what is happening in the town.  It might be too intense for some kids, as might be a scene where a daughter is forcibly taken away by the Romans in payment of taxes.  It's definitely not at the intensity of The Passion of the Christ, though (a great movie that I can't imagine taking preteens to see).  There's also a circumcision scene, in which anyone who knows anything about Jewish traditions knows what is happening to the baby, and that would make anyone cringe.  There are also passing shots of people who have been crucified.  Overall, the movie's pacing is slow but builds to a good climax.  Interspersed are some realities of biblical life.  I took my kids, who range from 8 up, and would have regretted not taking them.  The bishop of my LDS congregation recommended the movie without reservation.  But there may be some preteens who would do better without seeing it.  You know your kids best.  You might use pluggedinonline as a good family friendly movie review source.