Words fail me when I try to describe this video.  Les Miz is a glorious play, what with the genius of Boublil &amp; Schonberg.  I didn't think I would much enjoy this video because of its lack of actual set &amp; acting  and also the few short pieces cut.  But it still blew me away.  Best of all  was the cast.  It truly was the definitive edition.
  Colm Wilkinson  is just the perfect Valjean.  His voice has such emotion &amp; resonance to  it.  And he has such a strong presence as an actor.
  Philip Quast was  another excellent performer.  I've once heard his voice described as  "flinty" and I think that that's a good word for it.  He really  portrays Javert with such coldness, he makes the character quite vivid.
  Ruthie Henshall's Fantine is one of those rare performances in musical  theatre which simply cannot be surpassed.  Henshall's voice is so stirring,  heartbreaking, reverberating, deep, chilling, and beautiful.  Her "I  Dreamed a Dream" is excellent!
  Michael Ball's Marius needs to  introduction.  He's THE Marius, what else is there to say?  His voice so,  so powerful and he sings with such heart.  His "Empty Chairs At Empty  Tables" is truly captivating.
  Michael Maguire's Enjolras is  often criticised.  Yes, this wasn't the best performance he probably could  have given and he did miss a few notes.  But he still has a great voice.  People argue that Anthony Warlow is a better Enjolras.  While I agree that  Warlow has the vocal edge, there's something in Maguire's performance that  makes him so much like Enjolras and just so perfect for the part.
  Judy Kuhn's Cosette was the one performance which I can say is good but not  great.  She didn't strike me the first time I heard her, though she has  grown on me.  She does have a lovely voice, but I just don't go for the  whole "ringing soprano" thing.  In fact, almost all Cosettes  &amp; Christines and the like in general just annoy me.  I think Kuhn  sounded better as Pocahontas.
  Hannah Chick's little Cosette was SO  adorable!  She didn't miss a note during "Castle On A Cloud"  which she just sang so sweetly.  At the same time, she didn't seem to  overact the sweetness, which I've seen all too many Cosettes do.  And the  way she kept singing after the stage light explosion was very  professional.
  And Adam Searles, gotta Love him.  Similar to Maguire,  I have heard Gavroches with better voices that Searles but he just has the  part of Gavroche down so well.  He just has the perfect street-wise,  smart-aleck attitude perfectly.
  I was shocked as to how many people  disliked Lea Salonga's Eponine.  Even more shocking was how people insisted  that Frances Ruffelle was much better.  I think Salonga was THE most  phenomenal singer of the night.  To me, Ruffelle sounds terrible!  Many  have called Salonga too "bitter" or "angry" but Eponine  is a bitter, angry character!  Salonga sings with such force, and at other  times (e.g. "A Little Fall of Rain") with such sad sweetness.  Her "On My Own" was so excellent that watching it is an intense  experience.  I could barely tear my eyes from the screen the first time I  saw her sing it.  I think there is no question that she's THE definitive  Eponine.  'Course that's just my opinion.
All in all, this was the  greatest performance of Les Miz I have ever seen!