Night and Fog depicts the holocaust only ten years after the fact, while it is still fresh in everyone's memory. The film shows the locations of where the camps used to be and then juxtaposes the same locations using the available archive footage just to show how much these places have truly changed. The film also shows pictures and videos of the camps from behind the doors that were even closed from the victims in order to show what sort of sub-human behavior was going on while the people on the outside were under the control of a madman.

The effect of these images are nothing short of shocking and mindblowing. It is remarkable to see how different the locations are and how much has changed in such a short amount of time. At the same time it is incredibly disturbing to note how nobody seems to have the ability to keep such a ghastly event in their minds for very long, and it is upsetting to think about and to realize. This film dares to confront these feelings, and it does it in a way that is as quietly effective as any film I have seen. I think that it is very important for more filmmakers to craft films such as this, if only to allow people to have an easier way of confronting their own feelings toward such a remarkable tragedy and Night and Fog demonstrates the importance of this idea in an accessible and truthful way.

I think what struck me the most about this film is it's technique in this examination. This film uses some of the most effective editing I have seen. The effect the film has of flashing back and forth between the same location ten years earlier is what really struck me as brilliant, and I can see how many filmmakers could use this as inspiration in the technique of comparative purpose and of similarity of events. What works especially well is how the film draws such a solid statement from a simple conclusion, but it brings it out of such a complicated and horrific part of human history. The film does not go for the political or religious aspects of the events of the holocaust like many one-sided people do. Instead it challenges itself in showing humanity and human life at it's most fragile and it's most damaged.

One thing to note about the documentary is that it goes for a completely unbiased and open minded perspective. The narration plays an important part in allowing the film a much more open narrative. Narrator Michel Bouquet speaks in a dry, neutral, wooden, and cold way as to allow the film a more passive feel to the material to allow the viewer to view the images for what they are rather than what the filmmaker wants you to think of them. The music score only helps to enhance this effect. The music wavers back and forth between tragic and melancholy and light and whimsical. Many may view this choice as a somewhat surrealistic attempt at chaotic filmmaking, but I see it as a very brave choice that only adds to the power of the film and to the power of it's historical roots and it's effect. It's a must-see!