Read the reviews for this film and you will be met with such headlines as "Required Viewing for All Parents and Their Daughters" or "Every Parent of a Teen Needs to Watch This" film.  These reviews then talk about how, while deeply disturbing and vile, Megan Is Missing is a necessary evil that needs to be endured in order to teach teenagers the importance of Internet safety.  To some extent I have to agree.  But at the same time, I cannot and do not entirely agree with the fact that MIM is a definitive required viewing.  At least not for every teenager.

Imagine the following scenario.  12-year-old Lisa runs downstairs early Christmas morning, excited as ever to open up her gifts.  She quickly rummages through the lot of gifts, keeping her eye on that certain rectangular one  under the tree she will most certainly safe for last.  It's a gift she has a good feeling about.  Something she has been requesting since her tenth birthday party.  Alas, the time comes in which she gets hold of that fantastic rectangular box.  Little Lisa can barely hold in her excitement as she tears open the polar bear gift wrapping.  And there it is!  What she expected.  She can barely hold in her excitement as she holds up her new gift for her proud father to take pictures of with his new Nikon.  It's a new iMac laptop!

Lisa's father smiles at his daughter, pats her on her head, then tells her, "Before you play with this, I need you to go through your Christmas stocking."  Lisa can't begin to imagine what could possibly top her new gift.  After all, what kind of present in a stocking could be better than an iMac?!  But her father insists and so she reaches inside the red felt sock.  She pulls out a DVD.  Bewildered, she reads the title out loud, "Megan is Missing."  Confused, she asks,  "Is this the new Justin Bieber album on DVD?"

Her father smiles.  "No, honey," he says. "That is a movie you are going to have to watch if you want to keep your iMac."

Lisa slumps over, the bemused little 12-year-old not sure of what her father means.

The point I am trying to make with this little vignette of mine is the fact that not every teenager needs to, or should for that matter, watch MIM.  It's a very disturbing, vile film that will haunt and affect even the most avid horror fan.  But that is probably because this film, while not actually real, is executed so viscerally and intense that after viewing it, one is left feeling drained and emotionally disturbed.  This isn't a film for horror fans.  It's actually too much for them even.  Instead, this is a film that should be reserved for those teenagers (male or female!) who are beginning to show signs of abusing their Internet privileges (i.e., staying up late, chatting on their computers.

Parents need to talk to their kids about Internet safety.  They need to educate them about what kind of people they are really talking to when they stay up past 3am and find themselves in a Chatroom.  Teenagers need to be taught that they shouldn't request or accept anyone on Facebook that they don't actually know.

I don't need to tape a stick of dynamite to my hand and light it on fire to know that taping a stick of dynamite to my hand and lighting it on fire is dangerous.  But if I was someone who constantly found themselves playing with dynamite, I might one day need to undergo that valuable lesson.