"The Good, the Bad, the Weird" is an entry into the genera of Asian Westerns, and is probably the best of the limited array already available. Essentially, "The Good, the Bad, the Weird" (the film is named after the three main characters) is a chase movie from start to finish, and as such has a very limited storyline.  Set in the Manchuria in the 1930's, during the Japanese occupation, The Weird (Song Kang-ho of JSA, Memories of Murder, The Host) robs a train (in a very nifty opening sequence) and comes across a treasure map in the hands of the Japanese.  The Bad (Lee Byung-hun of JSA, A Bittersweet Life) is an assassin tasked with stealing the map, and after initially being foiled by The Weird, begins to pursue The Weird.  The Good (Jung Woo-sung of Musa) is a bounty hunter who is also after the map, and then, like The Bad, pursues The Weird.  The Good captures the Weird, The Bad then tracks the pair of them, the "Ghost gang" is also after the map, and then the Japanese get involved with trying to retrieve the map.  It all culminates in a lengthy action packed finale in the Manchurian desert.

A Korean production, "The Good, the Bad, the Weird" is a truly impressive effort, reputed to be Korea's most expensive film production to date and it shows.  There are some great set pieces - there is a bustling "Ghost Town", reminiscent of a wild west frontier town, and of course the backdrop for much of the film is the desert.  The overall sets and costumes are great, and have very real lived in quality to them.  The camera work is fantastic - there are some jaw dropping angles and long, sweeping shots galore.  The plentiful action sequences are well choreographed and shot.  I really enjoyed the characterisation of The Bad - a suave and debonair Lee has a field day with this role, and steals every scene he is in.  Song reproduces his bumbling and slightly dense everyday man role from "The Host", and thus is playing somewhat to type.  Nonetheless, both of these characters add humour to the film.  Jung makes a good fist of his role and probably has more intensive stunt sequences than the other two (apparently he broke his arm during filming) but is still overshadowed by the other leads.

There are some minor niggles - the film is probably 15 minutes too long, and some action sequences could have been trimmed down without sacrificing the story (there isn't much to it after all!).  There are also a few of those long meaningful shots of character's faces as they contemplate their fate/options/events... which I have noticed that many Korean directors indulge themselves in.  The lack of a substantive plot didn't bother me - after all it is clearly an action film, and not intended to be fine art.

All in all, "The Good, the Bad, the Weird" does do credit to Korean film.  Because of its western angle, "The Good, the Bad, the Weird" should have broader appeal than just Asian film aficionados.  It is just rollicking good (brainless) fun.

Note: There is an International Version (which is the subject of this review) and a Korean version of The Good, the Bad, the Weird.  There are extra scenes in the Korea version, the most significant of which relate to the Korean resistance backstory - the absence of these scenes from the International Version doesn't detract from the overall story.  There is also an extended ending sequence.  Apparently, there is a three disc DVD release available in Korea which has both versions of the film.