Most people will let the titles "GOODFELLAS", "THE GODFATHER (I &amp; II)", "ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA" and "THE UNTOUCHABLES" roll off their tongues when asked what their  favorite movie is in the "mob" genre.  Although seldom mentioned,  "MILLER'S CROSSING" must take its rightful place alongside the  above as one of the definitive treatments of gangster dynamics in American  Cinema.  I like to call it "The Thinking Man's Mob Movie" because  it's a film that requires one to really focus on the action and dialog and  not merely sit back in a lounger without attention span and wait for kill.  These characters are multi-faceted, the plot is complex and the payoff for  the viewer is delivered through outstanding cinematography (perhaps the  Coen's best!) and skillful pacing. Coupling their usual stable of actors  (Turturro, Buscemi, Polito) with veteran thespo Albert Finney, the  exquisitely laconic Gabriel Byrne, and femme-semi-fatale Marcia Gay Harden,  the Coen Brothers have assembled a truly great ensemble cast that  transcends the brutality and authenticity of the era.  Sure, there's great  kill!  In the good gangster pictures, violence is actually a character unto  itself, always lurking in the background until called upon to make a point.  In "MILLER'S CROSSING", the Coen Brothers seem to downplay the  actual mechanical violence by isolating the factors and sequences that are  responsible for it.  Betrayal and revenge are important themes in this  film.  The crisp writing makes the conversation between characters appear  effortless and uncontrived.  There's a certain casuality in the dialog that  belies the Coen's alarmingly accurate renderings of gangland execution.  Finally, the enjoyment one derives from viewing "MILLER'S  CROSSING" is not related to how much he/she understands the action or  knows about the mob lifestyle, but to the appreciation of the filmmaker's  art in communicating the brutality and fraternity of these individuals with  astonishing beauty and precision.