Before I say what bothers me, know that I do like this film, as a film. But, for what was depicted, less so. I really wanted to like this film for being about Banksy. Unfortunately, I can't because it's less about him and more about the protagonist - Thierry, AKA "Mr. Brainwash" (MBW). I've been following Banksy for some time now and his work has inspired me and my craft. I'm not a "street artists", but I am a designer where the craft of making and the process of creation are much the same. So, looking at this movie from that standpoint upset me a little with the conclusion of the film. Infused with hype and a poor sense of direction, Thierry gets a push to hold an art exhibit of his work. Using connections through his friends (Banksy & Sheppard Fairey), they provided enough hype for MBW to get a lot of local media attention that made Thierry an overnight celebrity.

I didn't have an issue with the hype that was gained, however, I did have an issue with how it was gained and the art that was produced. As an artist, MBW lacked knowledge, understanding, meaning, and integrity. He made pieces just for the sake of making pieces to fill his show. He simply copied ideas he liked from other artists and put minor tweaks to them and called them his own without understanding why the work he copied was made, or what it represented to begin with. Banksy even makes mention of Thierry's lack of craft and expresses disdain for making his images "even more meaningless" than Andy Warhol's, but validates Warhol's work by explaining how he did it in an iconic way, whereas Thierry, he explains, simply made them meaningless.

Once MBW's show got bigger than even Banksy and Sheppard Fairey anticipated, they were less enthusiastic about what was put out and further expressed how prematurely his work had been released for a scale of its size. Before moving into the final act, MBW goes on to explain why he calls himself "Mr Brainwash". I felt bad, but I couldn't help but laugh when I heard just how little he truly knew about concepts and the creative process. It's challenging, in the beginning, as a creator, learning who you are and what your style is, but MBW, with a show of that scale, was consciously or unconsciously making a claim as a full fledged "artist", so hearing his lack of understanding simply unveiled more flaws in his body of work. Maybe, to many, it won't be so evident, but any artist or enthusiast would be able to see through his facade with this documentary. What saddens me more is that had I been at the show, I too would have loved the work - at face value. But, after watching this film, his work comes across trite knowing his foundation was unsettled.

It's true that anything can be art and anyone can create it, but when you use the iconography of others for buzz to boost your overnight claim to fame, you end up falling short to those that do it for the enjoyment of expression and for helping others (non artists especially) understand why there's a passion to create it.