Hawthorne is likely spinning in his grave. Were it mathematically possible, I'd give this cinematic train wreck negative zero stars and then apply an exponent!!!  However, since that is an obvious impossibility, I'll just confine myself to offering up the following diatribe; here it goes:

This horror show disguised as an "adaptation" of the greatest American novel ever penned was indeed painful to watch. Having read Hawthorne's brilliant masterpiece numerous times, this movie was an abysmal disappointment...indeed a bastardization of a classic! When approaching a great literary-work-turned-motion-picture, I quite frankly, do not expect it ever to live up to the book; however, this screenplay missed many apparent opportunities to explore a number of themes that would have made the visual presentation of the novel much more riveting. To inject 20th century characterizations into a drama set 3 centuries prior (in the Massachusetts Bay Colony) was absolutely ludicrous. Having said all that, the greatest insult to the novel, was the alternate ending the director concocted, with Hester and the Rev. triumphantly riding off into the sunset! How utterly absurd, and yes sophomoric, and yes too "Hollywood!"  The screenwriter's justification of these 2 characters diminished the power and the significance of the story's premise. By contrast, the novel's ending conveyed the strong message of sin and atonement Hawthorne intended; Hester having become liberated through her own penitence, while the Rev. Dimmesdale became encumbered by consuming infirmities due to his keeping his iniquities hidden from public examination. I've enjoyed reading The Scarlet Letter since high school, and I completely concur with the evaluations of my fellow reviewers who decry the tragedy of this failed attempt at bringing to film one of the greatest seminal works of American genius. Thank you all for your thoughtful and inspired comments. Nathaniel Hawthorne's moving masterwork of the human condition, i.e. man's struggle with fleshly appetites and the consequences thereof in juxtaposition to the redemptive work of contrition has been reduced to a convoluted macabre farce of who hangs and for what...only to hang no one in the end due to a senseless and contrived Indian uprising. I understand the concept of creative license, but to stray so terribly far from the original text sadly marginalizes Hawthorne's powerful message of transgression and redemption, hypocrisy and tolerance.

Peace!