This is one of the best westerns of all time.  From a terrific story line, great cast, wonderful music score this movie is simply the best.

I first saw it as a little kid and have watched it a number of times since.  It's the values that it portrays and the character that it inspires that makes it such an enduring classic for me.  It's about a small village in Mexico that's being terrorized by a bad guy named Calvera and his 40 honchos.  The villagers don't know what to do being poor peasants, so they head north to the U.S. to buy guns for themselves.  They meet Brit (Yul Brynner) and Ben (Steve McQueen) who advise them to hire men instead.  Gunslingers are cheaper than guns....  So they approach Brit, who goes on to assemble a crew (total of 7) to head down south.  The money offered for the job is very little, but it's everything the villagers have.  Brit is moved, having been offered a lot of money in the past, but never everything - that's just one of the many great lines from the movie.  They get down to the village and end up squaring off with Calvera and his men in a great showdown.

There are many wonderful line and wonderful ideas portrayed in the movie. One other great idea is uttered by Bernardo O'Reilly (Charles Bronson) who is admired (and followed everywhere) by several local boys.  One day they tell Bernardo that their fathers are cowards, because they are afraid to fight Calvera.  However, nothing could prepare them for Bernardo's reaction - he spanks the kid and gives them all a lecture.  Their fathers are not cowards because they had the courage to raise families and work hard for them day in and day out.  Then he says that he himself (Bernardo) is coward as he's never had the courage to start a family and settle down.  "Shooting is easy" he say to the surprised boys.  Each of the 7 men has their own story and motivation for being in the fight.  Some perhaps not so altruistic as others.  But most of them went to fight for the village as a way of their own redemption.

It's a must-see.  This is simply a wonderful movie.