Poltergeist II:
Satisfying sequel to "Poltergeist"
This Second Movie could have been slightly better, for example it could have featured more footage of Julian Beck as Kane and should have not omitted key scenes that were filmed but ended up missing due to MGM rushing Production. On a whole though I liked the Second Poltergeist Movie and was pleased with the story they dreamed up as to why the Poltergeist's attacked the Freelings in the first Movie. So many people seem to think the Second Movie is set 1 year after the first "It is not!" If you have reed the book you would know that Diane, Steven and the kids have been staying with Diane's mother for nearly 4 years and when Steve says "It's been a full year" he is referring to the fact that he has tried "yet again" to claim for the house disappearing and has had to wait a full year to get a response again.
I thought the ending could have been better too as that also felt rushed I mean, "Where did Tangina go when Taylor drove off???" She is clearly missing from the shot.
One thing I respect about II is that it made common sense and pretty much featured the original cast obviously missing Dominique Dunne who was murdered by her violent boyfriend.
Just think if this had never happened II would have been so very different as Steven Spielberg was considering doing a second Movie along with Tobe Hooper and scrapped the idea when Dominique Dunne was murdered.
The Scene in Poltergeist II where Diane Mentions Dana being away at college was filmed but was stupidly cut by MGM'S Producer on the movie, Freddie "Jackass" Fields who was the biggest mistake to have ever worked on this movie (he is the man directly responsible for all of the movies plot holes) Thankfully he was finally fired in 1990!
I know that a good 26 minutes of Footage was cut by him from Poltergeist II and this is why it so badly needs to be restored and re-released as a Special Edition.
I think if this version had been released back in 1986 Poltergeist II would have had very good reviews.
All of the put-downs by critics were mainly regarding chops to the Movie and script plot holes.
Poltergeist III:
"Poor Movie only worth watching for O' Rourke's last performance"
The 3rd Movie was just awful, "I'm not even going to waste my time".
Poor little Heather O'Rourke died during filming which was such a
tragedy. 
"She was the only thing that saved this Movie from being a total
disaster"
R.I.P Heather -xxxxxx
I give Poltergeist II - ***1/2 out of *****
I give Poltergeist III - * our of *****