The 2008 holiday season gave us two cinematic efforts detailing the true stories behind two separate acts of resistance to the Hitler regime, Bryan Singer's "Valkyrie" and this.  Each is guaranteed to haunt you after it's over, and make you marvel afresh at the depths of both cruelty and courage of which human beings are capable.  I recommend watching them both as a double bill to see some of the most committed acting performances of recent times.

Powerhouse Daniel Craig cements his reputation here as the most versatile and passionate actor to ever fill 007's shoes.  Somewhere between the grueling shooting schedules for his two Bond films, he also found time for this even more grueling picture, spending three or four months on location in Lithuania, and speaking very credible Russian for at least half of the film.  He plays Tuvia, the eldest of the four Bielski brothers who flee to the vast forests of Belarus after their parents are brutally slain by Nazi collaborators.  At first intent only on their own survival, they become the reluctant protectors of a ragtag band of fellow Jewish refugees.  The leadership role falls naturally to Tuvia, who recognizes that his humanitarian duty to save fellow Jews outweighs personal interests.  After a daring visit to the Nazi-guarded ghetto, their number swells to 1200.  With Tuvia as their commander, and a sort of 20th-century Robin Hood, these ordinary citizens organize a forest community, learning woodsmanship and weaponry, and survival skills.  Next-eldest brother Zus (Liev Schrieber) is not content to remain in a defensive posture and joins the nearby Red Army battalion so he can kill Germans.  The tension between the vengeful Zus and the more pragmatic and pacifistic Tuvia is central to the narrative.  In contrast to the "Valkyrie" script, which essentially covers the events of one day, and can do so in minute detail, the story of "Defiance" spans more than three years that the "Bielski Partisans" lived in the forest.  This is too large a canvas for the filmmakers to do little more than broadly sketch what this forest existence must have been like and some of the personalities involved, but we do get a pretty vivid taste, throughout the seasons, of life spent in the wilderness and on the move, constantly afraid for the security of their camp.  Apart from everyone looking too clean (personal hygiene must have been nearly impossible, especially for the women), one gets a sense of authencity.  The one concession to movie artifice is probably Tuvia's rousing speech to the people from astride a white horse--very "Braveheart/King Arthur"esque--but it's a stirring and wonderful speech as delivered by Craig.  Really, why is he messing about with James Bond?  Here he brings to life a TRUE action hero, and the results are stunning.

Liev Schreiber as Zus is also a revelation.  None of Mr. Schreiber's previous roles had disposed me to put him in the top drawer of American actors, but here he more than holds his own opposite Craig.  One thinks the "Wolverine" movie is hardly worthy of his talents based on his work here.  Jamie Bell and George MacKay as the two youngest brothers are less central to the story but also comport themselves well.  Director Edward Zwick ("Glory") is fond of the big historical canvas; as in his earlier film, committed performances from the leads elevate what could have been just a dry and somber historical lesson into a deeply-felt personal statement.  And just like "Glory", "Defiance" adds a much-needed chapter of previously-overlooked acts of heroism in war to our collective consciousness.  Be sure to watch the bonus features for a touching photographic tribute to some of these brave unsung soldiers who defied evil until the very end.