Some good reviews and good attempts to summarize the plot. I urge that no one be put off by the anticipation that it will be confusing or overly complex. The story is told largely in flashback, and somewhat out of sequence, but it makes perfect sense to tell it that way, somehow. It is in no way hard to follow, and the exposition unfolds perfectly.

This movie is very strongly made up of Japanese cultural influences and history, yet the themes and underlying conflicts are universal. This is a human drama, told through strong empathetic characters. Hanshiro is one of the most admirable characters I have ever seen depicted...from his (anecdotal) heroism at Sekigahara, his honorable action when the clan is disbanded, raising his son, to whom he exhibits great love and loyalty, to the fact that when reduced to making umbrellas, he seems to be a painstaking and diligent craftsman. AND he gets to be a doting grandpa, babytalking and mugging to his little grandson.

Then when he has lost it all, he acts, again, with honor, in the only way left to him. Much is made of Kobayashi's undeniable attacks on authoritarianism, but it is also undeniable that to the end Hanshiro is the MOST honorable and the MOST true to the ideals bushido would have an individual uphold. The failure of bushido, as with any system of ideals, is in the imperfect humans who try (or do not) to uphold them, not necessarily in the ideals themselves.

This is a wonderful film, beautifully composed and well-acted. The actor portraying the Chamberlain does a fine job, in particular. Hanshiro's rebellion is directed fully at him, and in the end, it is difficult to tell what effect the exposure of so many dishonorable actions has had on him.

SPOILER!!! (as if you don't already know...)

One thing that has been little mentioned is the bleakness of the ending...in the end, the scribe notes only that on that date, one samurai committed honorable bushido in the House of Iyi, and a large number of retainers died of illness. Indeed, the narrator records that publically, the Iyi clan got away with everything, covering up the truth. The last shot, of the armor restored, soulless and imposing, is chilling. The more so noting the date of the action was 1630, and the code and society that drove Hanshiro to his desparate action was to continue for over two centuries.