Having had the extreme pleasure of seeing the restored print of Red Shoes at the George Eastman House's Dryden Theater on May 8, I can't help myself from jotting a few notes on a product 2 months before it's release.
 "The Red Shoes" in any other hands besides The Archers would be a late 40's English melodrama and available on DVD in one of those 50 movies for $10 box sets. However, bring in Michael Powell, Emeric Pressburger, Jack Cardiff and Hein Heckroth, among many others, and the result is of of the great examples of cinema as art.
 To call this a "Ballet Film" is almost an injustice, for while ballet is the genre used, "Red Shoes" is as much about creative process as it is about dance. Two young idealistic protagonists jump in full of blind enthusiasm only to find out that true artistry begins in the lower depths of obscurity - day after day after day of hard slavish work. The few who do rise in the ranks get more work, and the emotional high of public ovations lasts for a fleeting moment, then back to the depths for more work.
 It is also a fantasy film, not so much for the Red Shoes ballet-fantasy itself, but also because the entire film is unrealistic as far as how the real world of artistry works. The emphasis is not on realism (although Covent Garden, the Paris Opera and the Mercury Theater were all used as location shots), but on the emotion of working to the top of the world, and the price of staying there.
 The cast is wonderful, and Moira Shearer looks absolutely stunning in Technicolor! From her first moment of star-struck naivety in her aunt's box in Covent Garden, to her ravaged sensuality at the end of her performance in "The Red Shoes" ballet performance, and finally her last scene as a broken "Coppelia" figurine in a tug of war between Lermentov and Craster, Shearer is captivating to see.
 The great Anton Walbrook plays Boris Lermentov, an aristocratic impresario who has the power to raise people to dizzying artistic heights, and also to destroy them in an instant. Walbrook is one of the few actors who can act with his eyes, showing incredible warmth and humanity or cold sadistic cruelty with a single glance, and he uses them effectively in one of Martin Scorsese's favorite villain roles. Walbrook is perfect as Lermentov ranging from cold aloofness as a perfectionist, inhuman as he tosses artists to the wayside, tender and paternal in "adopting" Vicky page, and exhilarating in his demonic obsession which destroys both Page and himself.
 Jack Cardiff, one of the great Technicolor cinematographers, belongs in the opening credits for one of the great film achievements of all time. Of course, Vicky Page's Red Shoes Ballet is stunning and remains the centerpiece of the film, but the small moments are just as impressive. The texture on clothing, curtains and upholstery is so vivid you can almost feel them! Then there are the contrasts as in the Paris scenes, first in the Paris Opera's Foyer de la Danse with warm suffused lighting followed by the cold harsh Vermeer-like brooding of Lermentov's office, or the opulance of Lady Neston's party against the drab and even shabby exercise rooms.
 The entire cast is very good, each one memorable no matter how small the role.
 The real stars of this film are The Archers, who may be one of the greatest production teams in the history of cinema. While Michael Powell was the director and had final say in everything, this production is a collaboration of some of the finest artists around at the time, each one having some say in the entire production, and not just in their credited departments.
 The new print itself is absolutely gorgeous and stunning to look at! I had seen Red Shoes on the old Criterion version a number of times before the Eastman House screening (with Thelma Schoonmaker in attendance), and to tell the truth, I was so caught up in the emotion of the film to fully appreciate the restoration until several days later when I took another look at the old Criterion and was surprised at how pale and pockmarked it looked compared to the new print.
Ms. Schoonmaker showed some demos of the restoration process, which I assume will be part of the new Criterion with Scorsese making comments, and the amount of labor it took to restore three-strip Technicolor frame by frame (500,000 feet of film). From the opening J. Arthur Rank/Archers logos to the devastating final reel of emotions spinning out of control, the "new" Red Shoes is a release that will belong on the top of any true film lovers list.