Lets cover some basics-
As per the whole drunken scene- its SUPPOSED to be scarey- that teaches children the negative aspects of alcohol and alcoholism *the mean and stupid drunk clowns*, and the predicament that accidentally getting drunk that landed dumbo in a TREE... the elephants were meant to scare children, just as much as a description of a bad acid trip or how any drug ruins the body used by programs such as DARE is meant to scare children- so it stays in their mind and they understand the consequences of irresponsibility. 
So the crows are racist because... they talked with a slight southern accent, had an "black" voice, and were not the most fluent in proper English|American speach?  Have you- I don't know, visited the south ever? Do  you have any clue how People in GENERAL talked in the late 1800's and early 1900's? Understand slang, or colloquialisms, or dialect differences of those times? Apparently NOT. It seems to me that you have made the assumption all on your own that the crows MUST be Negro because- they are unlearned and crows are- black. Your association is "Black"- your childs association is- Crow, of course you could push your own odd mentality on your kid by telling them that the crows ARE black and they ARE making fun of or belittling people of darker skin tones... but more than likely your three year old doesn't even notice colour, and won't until you start throwing it in his face. For what it's worth, I live in Mobile Alabama, I was born and raised in Boston *My husband is serving in the USCG*, if anything I'd say "yep the crows are southern"- because guess what, people here- still talk like that, and this state is by far primarily "White". I notice no one mentioned the men working in the rain- but those voices were of a "coloured" choir too- so I guess then that says that "Blacks"- ahh- get the job done? The crows are some of the nicest most friendly charachters in the film. In many ways, the crows are Dumbo's saving grace, giving him the "magic feather" and thus the confidence to fly, and he doesn't forget them in the end. The crows wouldn't be at all half the awesome charachters they are if it weren't for the "Black" voices behind them. They were full of soul and really uplifting- perhaps that's why Jim Charmicheal and the Hall choir were chosen- because they brought the charachters to life and could make people sing and smile.
Now lets talk about the potential for reverse racism, the crows ONE "negative" quality is their speach (personally I think they speak better English than President Bush does!), yet the cruel men in the film, the ringmaster, the clowns, the little boys who torment baby dumbo- they are all White. They are the depictions of negative human qualities. The ringleader is a power hungry, abusive, calculating, cold hearted animal abuser and neglecter... and also abusive in his treatment of his workers. The clowns are lazy drunks who lack complete regard for the lives of animals- shoving dumbo out a window. And what about the other elephants, those female- uppercrust meanies- there's some nice "white" voices for you. They were realll sweethearts. When you look at the facts more like that it starts to look more like those poor poor Negros who are regarded as dumb- aren't really the focus of this movie at all. *Gasp shock* what a novel notion- a Disney movie that isn't racist and it isn't a movie that is going to scar all children. You can use this movie like many other Disney films to teach children many many important life lessons- but that would mean  you'd have to do more with the tv set than use it as a babysitting device for your kid.