** SPOILER ALERT! Film's conclusion given away! **

The most impressive apes yet. Rick Baker's make-up effects manage to eclipse the 1968 Version (with Charlton Heston, Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowell) in this new version by Tim Burton starring Mark Wahlberg, Tim Roth and Helena Bonham Carter as a chimp cutie. The eponymous apes - a whole army of them! - leap and run on all fours in an impressive style that leaves the older movie standing. The trouble is that the army of running, leaping apes could run and leap through the many holes in the plot and their swinging arms wouldn't even touch the sides.

 For a start - Helena Bonham Carter plays Ari; a pretty chimpanzee (so pretty in fact that it must have been written into her contract) yet her father is an orangutan! Sloppiness like this is endemic in this version. There seems to be little difference between the three distinct ape species who elbow and jostle for power and on occasion even flirt across the great species divide. It is legitimate to do as Burton does and attempt an entirely original essay with a new storyline and totally different premise but it is usually a good idea to hold firmly on to the baby when you are so energetically ladling out the bathwater. There is little tension between the different ape groups and Pierre Boulle's satire; so well developed in the original novel - and reasonably well preserved in the first film - here just does not feature. In fact, Burton pretends to be original but he carries over so many of the old film's ideas it is a questionable conceit to say the least. The uniforms of the soldier apes are practically the same as  before and their riding into battle in the Forbidden Zone on a kind of Holy Mission is so obviously taken en masse from the second film in the series that it really does throw this much vaunted originality into question. The trouble is that it does not really belong. Appearing out of context as it does it begs so many questions; why do these apes - living in a relatively small, isolated population descended from a few space-laboratory specimens need a large and well equipped army? And where did the horses come from? Were they on the crashed space ship too? You really have to pay attention in the beginning of the film to understand the ending - and if you do it will come as no surprise.

 The story is in fact very simple. Man meets chimp; man loses chimp, man finds chimp again! A possible love interest between Mark Wahlberg's Leo and the improbably beautiful savage Daena - played by Estella Warren (who was obviously chosen for her close resemblance to Linda Harrison; the love interest of the original film) -  is only touched on and never developed. The rival `love' interest is provided by Ms Bonham Carter (but of course we know this is a non-starter.) She is a chimp and I just never believed for one minute that even Tim Burton was going to give us a cross-species romance. The rest of the plot is basically the same as `Oklahoma' and you can almost hear them all singing "Oh! The monkeys and the humans should be friends!" as they all link arms in the final sequence and dance off into the sunset. Charlton Heston appears as an ape in a cameo role; angrily dying and growling profanities to the end in a simian parody of his exit from the second `Apes' film. I think the sad truth here though is that Heston's Dementia was hard to keep off the screen so they didn't even try. His throwaway "God damn you all to hell!" is taken from the original series of course and it is not the only self conscious, up-the-sleeve tittering. Michael Clarke Duncan as Colonel Attar gets to bark out "Take your filthy stinking hands offa me you goddamn human!" parodying another one of Heston's famous lines but it has none of the power it had when Heston said it and Burton seems hopelessly lost now as he cherry picks good lines and ruins them by putting them into a weaker context. We cheered Heston when he managed after a long struggle to get the words out - the only human to speak on a planet where speech for humans is unknown. It had a surprise, tension releasing effect. Now the humans do speak on this Planet and so it is just thrown away unnoticed; and not even spoken by a human. So why put it in at all when it has the unfortunate effect of forcing an uncomfortable comparison?

 Where satire does occasionally appear it is in the form of instantly forgettable one-liners. The original films played on fears of nuclear holocaust and had references to religious fanaticism, racism and bigotry. You would be excused for thinking that there was more than enough material in the current era that is ripe for parody. Yet this film is so one dimensional all we notice is it's length.

 General Thade is reasonably well performed by Tim Roth but goes so over the top near the end that we wonder why he wasn't relieved of command on medical grounds. It seems incredible that such a violent society (whether ape or human) could have held itself together for long enough to get anything done. The apes' behaviour would have been overdone for Klingons in Star Trek.  "Help me my friend," Thade purrs - insincerity oozing from every pore - then he goes on yet another rampage, firing off a stolen gun and very nearly shoots himself in the foot. It could have been a very funny moment - but Burton has us worrying so much about a real chimpanzee that Thade knocks, cruelly aside with a peevish kick that we are just not in the mood for humour. General Thade ends up pathetically cowering under a table as the bullets he fired off ricochet around the room. An end straight out of The Wizard of Oz. Human techno-magic is just too much for this monkey villain.

 I must say I was excited when I heard that there was to be a second attempt at filming Pierre Boulle's `unfilmable' novel. I only had to see the first stills for the excitement to evaporate. Boulle's novel was thought to be unfilmable because it had a contemporary setting. A planet resembling the earth. A planer of cities with skyscrapers; houses and shops; cars and ships and planes. The apes lived in this society just like as do. They were unquestionably gorillas, chimpanzees and orangutans but they did not look like apes dressed up in human clothes. Nor did they look like humans trying to be apes. If ever a film was waiting for the latest CGI special effects it was this one. Boulle developed his story so that he could make wry observations about twentieth century French society with it's tripartite social division and the endemic racism that in Vichy France relegated intelligent people to the level of sub humans as the establishment collaborated with the Nazis in their wholesale extermination. Even now this powerful satire has resonances and with a skillful screenwriter could make a fascinating and deeply disturbing movie. But Burton copped out of this and went instead for a hijacked `look and feel' of his elders and betters and just gave it  a contemporary makeover. In the process we are left with a nice look but it is all appearance and no substance in which the earlier film's impact is woefully lacking.

 The first film finished with the striking image of a decaying Statue of Liberty sticking up out of the sand. "I'm back!" Sobs Heston and sinks to his knees. The shock ending of the new film - Calima, the forbidden place is really the old ape laboratory (yawn) - is so weak that Burton obviously felt he had to tag another, more shocking ending on to the end. This last bit of fluff is that the astronaut returns to earth (did you wonder why he couldn't get the girl?) and finds the statue of Abraham Lincoln has been replaced by one of General Thade. As Leo takes in this shocking revelation he is surrounded by armed gorillas in police uniforms and made to surrender at gunpoint. Huh? Oh, I get it; the implication is that after all that,  General Thade managed to escape, take over, develop space-travel and lead an army of apes to conquer our civilisation and now Earth is the Planet of the Apes. Well I started by saying that this was "the most impressive `Apes'.... yet."

 But it's a big `Yet'.