In an era during which the western movie was simply tuckered-out - tired of endless TV series' that chanted the same worn diatribe - and audiences searched for and demanded something different - along came "One-Eyed Jacks"...featuring one listless, troubled, mumbling loner - fretting, ruminating, and deliberating...see, you actually can describe him with something other than "brooding"!  No one besides Marlon Brando, as Rio, could have portrayed this man of few words - with tender, endearing lines, like - "You get up - you big tub o'guts!", "Get up, you scum-sucking pig!", and - "You gob of spit!"  Along with an equally colorful actor - Karl Malden, as the dispicable "Dad" Longworth, there is a relationship between these two men seared in the fires of deep, infesting hatred and forged in revenge.

In a friendship marred by bitter betrayal and hyprocrisy, two former tequila-saturated, bank-robbing buddies finally separate when surrounded by Mexican troops.  But, when his mentor, Longworth, fails to come back to rescue him - having been dispatched to locate horses for their getaway and leaves him for capture and a long prison term, Rio just wants to settle the score.  He soon learns that his former buddy is now Sheriff "Dad" Longworth in Monterey, California - which just happens to be the location of the next bank that Rio and his new compadres are about to rob - the stage for sweet revenge.

With the fragile and lovely Pina Pellicer as Rio's love interest, Louisa, the solid Katy Jurado as her mother, Mrs. Longworth, and great character actors like Ben Johnson, Sam Gilman, and Larry Duran as Rio's new bank-robbing friends - along with Slim Pickens as the reprehensible Deputy Lon Dedrick and including notable appearances by Elisha Cook, Jr., Ray Teal, and the amazing Timothy Carey - the supporting stock in this picture elevates it to cult classic status.  Now, add the haunting and memorable score by Hugo Friedhofer - and you have a truly wonderful motion picture that deserves the careful and diligent restorative techniques of a powerhouse like - say Criterion - to remaster it completely.

Filmed chiefly against the backdrop of Monterey, California with its rockbound shores and crashing sea rollers - it was a refreshing change to see a location other than some wind-swept, border town surrounded by paper-mache saguaro cacti.  What makes this film different is the carefully designed, chess-like series of ploys as Rio and "Dad" Longworth position themselves for the inevitable showdown.  SPOILER ALERT:  And, when Longworth finally gets his, it is satisfying to say the least, but certainly short of the real "Sonny Corleone"/"Clyde Barrow"-style, bullet-riddled dessert that he really deserves - even if he is carrying a nine-shooter revolver!