The Perfect Game is a feel good movie that could have been so much better if I could have gotten to know the characters and why they acted as they did a bit more. Despite what it could have been it is well worth watching. Even though I knew what was going to happen I still rooted for the team and smiled at the outcome.

The movie is based on the true story of a Mexican Little League Team's quest to overcome overwhelming odds to win the Little League World Series in 1957.  Those involved with the team are likable characters. Cheech Marin does a superb job as a priest who inspires the team. I liked all the ball players and the manager as well.  Even the "bad people", like those who looked down on the team because it was Mexican and poor or a newspaper editor who wanted to pull a female reporter off the story once the team made it to the finals because she was a woman, are not so evil.

Yet I wish could have understood the manager a bit more.  He is someone who faced discrimination while working for a major league baseball team the United States, came back to Mexico, became a drunk only to sober up and lead the team.  How he did this is beyond me.  He was a drunk one moment a good coach the next.

The manager also is set up with a woman in town by one of the ball players who is a young ladies man.  How this preteen does this is beyond me and why this woman falls for the manager is never fully explained.

There is a woman reporter who is forced to cover the team when it was expected to lose.  Her editor wants to take her off the story when the team starts winning. I wish I knew more about her other than she was a woman sports reporter. Her character is not developed well.

Lou Gossett Jr. has a brief cameo as Cool Papa Bell, a Negro League ballplayer who never got the chance to play Major League baseball because he was black. He was eventually enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame in recognition of his greatness.  I wish more could have been done with his character.

Despite this, Cheech Marin does a great job as a priest who inspires the team. His character is developed a bit more complex than the others. There is also a subplot where one young ballplayer is treated badly by his father, only to reconciled at the end of the movie, which is developed pretty well.

I love baseball movies.  This one is a good one and perfect for children of all ages. I just think it could have been so much better if the characters were better developed.