Of course, this is great fare for the kids and teens.  This is to the grownups!..  The Little Mermaid is now multi-generational.  Ariel's dream is fully realized, the quintessential air-breathing Princess, wife and mom, now has a daughter for the current generations of kids and teens to relate to. Those dissatisfied with the sudden ending of the first movie will enjoy seeing that contrary to the fairy-tales, life's best should and can occur AFTER the "and they married and lived happily ever after" event.  TLM2 clinches it. Adults will forget the implausibility of the biology.  It's sheer fun to see how Eric and Ariel have grown ever closer in married life... they support, touch (yes, and smooch), frolic, and fight together.  Naturally, there's a tough mother-daughter conflict. And.. there's  a satisfying ending that will totally amaze you! The story editing hangs together quite well...for those who care. I was always hoping that Disney would bring us a sequel to TLM. And happily, Disney has lavished tons of care and attention on this production. The wait was worth it! The DVD version  is easy to navigate, and allows you to go straight to the movie.  Both TLM1 and 2 could benefit with in-studio interviews  with the lead animators, and particularly, the great vocal talent (Jodi Benson and Tara Charendoff, Samuel Wright and  Pat Carroll -- ARE YOU LISTENING, DISNEY???) I sincerely hope that more great follow-ups are in the works! Unencumbered by the Hans C. Anderson story line, this one touches on such a wide spectrum of relationships and themes, has such heart, comedy, and  action, it's going to attract thousands of adult fans as well as teens and little'uns. TLM2 is artistically and story-wise true to the original film, but breaks out entirely on its own.  You can plainly see the heart in this film, not only in its story, but in the animation and articulation as well.  Watch the facial expressions (the eyes espec.) and body language. Musically, it gives notable tributes to Broadway Musical giants Alan Menkin and the late Howard Ashman with hints of "Part of your World" interwoven with a wealth of new, and original toe-tapping beats.  The backgrounds, color schemes and character styles are rich enhancements over the originals, while still consistent with the original world. If you haven't seen the first one, shame on you!  But this movie stands so much on its own, it won't matter.  We've had it 24 hours and  seen it six times.