Soldier is a movie that bombed at the box office.  Made for a reported $75 million, it didn't make back a quarter of that.  Critics on [...] gave it a 2 percent consensus, which makes it one of the worst movies ever as fair as the critics were concerned.  I have to ask why?

Like most of the other people here on the "Zon," the movie accomplished what it was looking to and did it believably.  There were no notable bad actors, overly bad scenes, the plot was thin, but fine for most action movies.  The only thing I can think of is that critics just don't get science fiction as well.  They more understand the hundredth review they do on a revenge theme, or a crime and punishment theme, or more character driven personalized type of saving my daughter type of action movie. Throw a spaceship in and they are lost!

In a lot of ways I thought soldier made a good point on how we handle our military today.  It should be observed that soldiers returning from long stints fighting terrorists, and then trying to re-enter society is going to have problems. It also may have shown some light on the often unthinking, unfeeling attitude you see with how the government treats its soldiers.

Despite the subtle politics, Soldier is a good action movie.  Much of the movie played out in a similar vein like movies such as Die Hard, and Rambo that fill the action venues.  Kirk Russell is convincing as a trained killing machine that no personal ambitions outside of doing his duty as a soldier and doing it well.  When asked to describe his thoughts, feelings, he answers "Fear and Discipline, Sir."

I'm a science fiction and an action movie fan.  I still doubt I would have committed so much money to a movie with nothing special to attract larger audiences.  This is a movie that should have been made a little more on the cheap.  When I saw the production values on TV, I wondered why I had never heard of this movie.  Probably because the movie had little fanfare, and may have opened, then closed in the same week.  Still it's a good movie, and I'm glad to see the other reviewers here at Amazon, know what they like.