I've watched this movie several times and still love it. The basic story is of a boy, Walter (played by Haley Joel Osment) who is dumped on his great-uncles Garth and Hub (Michael Caine and Robert Duvall) because his skanky, irresponsible mother, Mae (Kyra Sedgwick), is tired of being tied down by him. Garth and Hub aren't interested in Walter, and Walter seems, at first, to be a bit too beaten down by having an unloving mother to really care much.

But gradually Walter and his great-uncles start to get to know each other and to warm to each other. One of the things that helps is that the great-uncles seem to have led some very interesting and adventurous lives. They tell stories of things they did when they were younger (as each story is being told, the movie makes the transition from narration to showing the story unfold in live action). These stories are exciting and wonderful and all have core values about life very neatly underlying them.

One of the stories is that the great-uncles accumulated a vast amount of gold, though we don't know for sure whether it was acquired the way the great-uncles tell, or through a bank robbery. And it turns out that Mae, in addition to just getting rid of Walter for a while, was also hoping that Walter would find out where the money is hidden, and so she was coldly using him for that purpose.

When Walter finds out that it is possible that none of the stories are true, Hub tells him that it doesn't matter, giving a wonderful speech about love, honor, and goodness, and about how there are things worth believing in. (A brief excerpt: "...That people are basically good; that honor, courage, and virtue mean everything; that ... money and power mean nothing; that good always triumphs over evil...." Wonderful stuff. I suppose the more cynical and heart-hardened might call this syrupy or even unbelievable, but I call it core values.)

I don't want to give anything more away about the story, but I assure you it is a wonderful, warm, human story, womderfully told with great acting on the part of all three major characters (Caine, Duvall, and Osment). I love this movie and hope you will too.