Without going too much into detail about plot, characters, story line (there are plenty of people who have supplied reviews), i'll just say that this is one of the most enjoyable of the Bond films. It has a certain degree of realism that was lacking from later films, as well; Bond doesn't rely on hoaky gadgets to get past an obstacle every 10 minutes, and his 'swinging' life is kept to a moderate level. The fights, as well as the traps from which Bond must find a way out, are not silly at all...this is a REAL spy movie.

Sean Connery gives an excellent performance in this movie, playing a more serious and focused character than you'll find from "Diamonds are Forever" and onward. As you well know, James Bond movies are often the brunt of jokes, due to the sexual promiscuity and lack of inhibition, as well as the goofy, easily escapable traps that the villians place him in (Austin Powers films owe their success to the fallacies of later Bond flicks). Not so with "From Russia With Love". Ian Fleming's novel was done great justice here. Let me just say as much. One aspect that interests me is that the films have a sort of chronology (Dr. No is mentioned in this film, and Blofeld is introduced, although you never see his face).
One little bit of trivia. During the film, you see a billboard for a Bob Hope movie named "Call me Bwana" that is utilitized within the film, yet is more of an advert/promotional tool than anything. The reason that the board is in the film is that the producers worked on that film as well. Thanks to the individual who reviewed the Hope film for pointing that out.
Finally, as it has been mentioned, this was Desmond Llewelyn's first time as Q. He hadn't yet come into contact with Bond, and so the humor and repore that these guys have in future films is not quite there. Still, a great entrace into the series....that briefcase is very cool.
If you like your Bond films to be silly, contrived, and somewhat ridiculous, you can always watch your Roger Moore renditions of Bond. Although Pierce Brosnan has brought things back to the Ian Fleming standards, you can't beat Connery. The first three Bond films are the best.