Arriving at the Toronto Film Festival last year "Death of a President" had their puppy dog eyes all ready to go, pleading for attention that they found a lot easier than I think they were anticipating. Republicans and wannabe Republicans (coughHillarycough) denounced it as trash because to them the idea of Bush being dead was too much for their weak hearts to handle. Lions Gate struck while the controversy was still hot and stuffed the film into whatever theaters would have it right before an election that would determine whether the President's powers would live to see another day. We cannot just toss this movie away because some might not like their approach, it does have a point to make and presents a thesis that I agree with: If Bush were to die and Cheney were to become President he would use his new found office to push through more dictatorial laws and drum up a war with some other country that happens to be rich in oil (Syria in this case). On top of that they would probably find themselves a Muslim patsy and serve him up as red meat to the blood thirsty American public. Then he would be convicted of whatever Cheney sees fit (wrongfully of course) because we oh so proud Americans are usually are too preoccupied to even know what day of the week it is.

It is just that the film itself isn't that good. Using lots of found footage and fictional reenactments it tells the story, in documentary form, of Bush's death and the aftermath. Director Gabriel Range gets lots of actors to play talking heads, primarily made up members of Bush's inner circle. Only none of them bother to do a very god job. Becky Ann Baker is there playing the naive speechwriter which is fitting since she played the naive mom so well on "Freaks and Geeks." The rest of them either mumble or overact their way through a flat script that always talks in one voice. And the reenactments are just horrendous. They look the creations of a shoestring budget that they actually were. I would also like to point out that while the concept may seem edgy to us, those stuck living in the land of living Bush, but hypothetically anybody watching this in 2008 would already know the chronology quite intimately. They do try and go with the angle where they are unveiling who the true killer actually is, but that doesn't really arrive until the last half hour or so and feels tacked on. I believe in the motives behind this movie, I just don't believe in the movie itself.

If I could also take a moment to scare away any potential viewers hoping to get a cheap thrill out of pretending that the Prez is dead for 90 minutes, give or take. What Range envisions happening after Bush dies is actually worse (crazy, I know), and so you would be in for quite a rude awakening. The scenes he is able to put together simply by cobbling together footage and changing the context is very impressive to me. Cheney's speech at Reagan's funeral turns into Cheney speaking about Bush. By no means is this a bad movie, its intellectual power unfortunately is overpowered by sensationalism and bad acting. The concept of the disgruntled troop(s) who returns home and seeks revenge of the Commander in Chief is staring to take hold. First we had "Homecoming" on Showtime and now this. Massive amounts of brainwashing has prevented this from happening thus far, but if the whispers of cinema have any truth in them then that bill is about to come due. **3/4