Like Wu Tianming's "King of Masks", Zhang Yimou's "Not One Less" marks a change from the standard "Chinese history as backdrop" approach of the internationally-oriented art-house movie directors of China's Fifth Generation. 
Personally, I think this is a change that is well overdue.  The weight of history has proved excessive for some of the most famous of the Fifth Generation's work (examples include otherwise completely masterful offerings such as "Farewell My Concubine" and "Red Sorghum"). It's a mark of the creative talent of these directors that they have been able to transcend those fairly obvious roadblocks to understanding. However, it must be said that the traditional Chinese emphasis on story line over characterization has enabled western audiences to hold many of these movies at arms length emotionally.
In "Not One Less" Zhang (that's his family name by the way, Yimou is probably a little overfamiliar in a public space) provides a close focus on a single point in time and a single set of characters.  It is a moving and well-crafted human portrait of the modern discrepencies between China's interior countryside and the economic dynamos of the coastal belt and the big cities.
As the doggedly literal teenage substitute teacher, Wei Minzhi is a wonderful find.  Like Zhang Huike, the boy whom she tracks down in the midst of the city of Xi'an, she was chosen from among a group of children who had never acted before.  Her performance here is absolutely riveting.
This movie deserves 5 points just for its humor and the humanity of its characters.  Again, like "King of Masks" it manages to make big points without sacrificing the personalities of the characters and this feature makes it a very significant film.
One of the most important features to emerge from modern Chinese cinema in the last few years is the appearance of characters who have an intimate emotional impact on western audiences.  Previous offerings have tended towards the heroic or the spectacular: While  Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan and Jet Li were perhaps the most obvious choices as cross-over stars, in the end, their abilities to do more than entertain or elicit admiration for their martial arts skills is pretty limited. Gong Li and Zhang Ziyi while undoubedly beautiful and talented seem almost otherwordly and perhaps too readily assimilated into the China-doll category to be truly liberating figures.
The situation in Hollywood is even worse of course.  Only John Lone is consistently employed in anything approaching starring roles and Joan Chen has not really been able to make a significant impact either.  The only recent exceptions were (of course) Michelle Yeoh and Chow Yun Fat in Ang Lee's non-Hollywood "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", but even here, most of the hype was centered around the martial arts rather than the phenomenal acting job that they both did.
In these days ... it is refreshing and faith-restoring to see depictions of Chinese people that are three dimensional, charming and human.  ...just knowing that these movies are around and that I can show them to my students makes me sleep a lot easier at night.