With all due respect to devotees of "Singin' in the Rain", I  think "An American in Paris" is the best musical ever made.  Stanley Donen was an innovative director, but Vincente Minnelli was a  genius in his field, and "An American in Paris" was his  masterpiece. I choose "An American in Paris" over the others for  various reasons. (One example: "Meet Me in St Louis" is charming  Americana, but it's spoiled by that melodramatic episode in the middle with  Tootie's cut lip and the Boy Next Door being blamed; it's so contrived it  might have dropped out of another picture.) "An American in Paris' is  a completely successful musical with Gershwin songs culled from their stage  shows of a previous generation (for instance, "S Wonderful" is  from the 1927 "Funny Face" and "I Got Rhythm" is from  1930's "Girl Crazy"), a trim script by Alan Jay Lerner, and  perfect casting. Gene Kelly at 38 was in his prime. And here let me say  that Jerry Mulligan, Kelly's character in the film, is the brash, can-do  kind of guy who was vastly admired in America by both men and women in the  years following World War II. His aggressive attitude towards life  represented qualities that had won the war. If today he seems a little  chauvinistic (in every sense of the word) ... well, times change. The fact  remains that Jerry is an ex-G.I. who has mastered the French language and  venerates French culture. Hardly the Ugly American. On the flip side is his  New World naïvet&eacute;. In one scene he and his French girl friend Lise (Leslie  Caron) meet shyly outside a sidewalk caf&eacute; and take a table. But Lise  immediately becomes aware that an old rou&eacute; nearby is checking her out  (assuming she's just been picked up). Embarrassed, Lise asks to leave the  caf&eacute;. But Jerry? The poor dope has no idea what's happened. Similarly, the  whole movie has a sharp edge unusual for light entertainment. It's evident  in the rich American Milo Roberts (Nina Foch) with her soign&eacute;e chilliness  and her somewhat S &amp; M relationship with Jerry. And it's evident in the  curmudgeon wit of Adam Cook (Oscar Levant), "the world's oldest child  prodigy". His fantasy of playing Gershwin's Concerto for Piano and  Orchestra single-handed is every musician's dream/nightmare. The Old World  is represented by Henri Baurel, a music hall star, performed by Georges  Guetary, who was (I suspect) basically playing himself. (His rendition of  "I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise" is the film's only  traditional cabaret number.) Throughout the story, his boulevardier  suavity,not to mention the savoir faire of the minor characters, indicates  the Gallic easygoing attitude towards sex, which was about 20 years ahead  of the U.S.'s. (Incidently, look close in the Beaux Arts ball sequence and  you'll spot a young gay couple passing Kelly on the staircase.) Despite its  glossiness, the picture has a refreshing spontaneity. Notice in the  "By Strauss" number that Kelly's cap gets knocked off his head by  the florist's skirt. At first he grabs for it, but then it's like "Ah,  t' hell with it" and he keeps on going. Appropriately, all the acting  is natural and subdued. But not the climatic ballet! It has to be the most  lavish experience in all of film entertainment, before or since. It's been  said that this ballet is "too much", but i think mehitabel in  paris would have said theres no such thing as too toujours gai. With its  3-strip Technicolor, its numerous sets, its hundreds of costumes, Kelly's  superb choreography, and of course gorgeous Gershwin, the "An American  in Paris" ballet is, like the movie itself, le spectacle ne plus  ultra. Savourez!