The Last of the Mohicans is one heck of a movie.  It has a little something for everyone.  I'm not a guy, but I suspect that guys like action- it has tons of that.  It has romance for us girls.  And a certain raw emotion that everyone can appreciate.  The movie's plot follows the adventures and romance that occur when Hawkeye (Daniel Day-Lewis), and his adoptive Indian family Chingachagook (Russel Means) and Uncas (Eric Schweig)escort two British sisters, Cora (Madeleine Stowe) and Alice (Jodhi May) to safety during the French and Indian War.  Also among the mix of characters is a vengeful Huron warrior named Magua (Wes Studi) intent on killing Cora and Alice. The two characters that are developed the most are Cora and Hawkeye.  They fall in love.  Through Stowe and Day-Lewis's acting, I got a strong sense of the devotion and attachment that Hawkeye and Cora have for one other.  They light up the screen in every scene they're in together. This might be a shallow thing to say, but I honestly don't think the movie would have worked without attractive people.  Nearly everyone in the movie is good-looking.  Even Magua has a certain evil handsomeness that might be overlooked.  If Hawkeye had been acted by Steve Buscemi and Cora by Kathy Griffin, this movie would have lost all of its appeal.  Other than looking good, the actors do a very nice job.  Day-Lewis is superb.  The way he speaks fluent Indian language with Uncas and Chingachagook might seem pretentious on another actor, but he makes it more of a way of life than a showy "look at how long i spent practicing speaking in indian for this role." The ending is very emotional.  I am not ashamed to admit that in the six times I have seen the end, I have cried five times.  Jodhi May does such a good job as Alice.  Why isn't she in more movies?  Every character has a little bit more to them than meets the eye.  There are no 2-Dimensional characters. However, there are flaws in the movie.  For instance, I found it a little bit odd the way that Hawkeye had no trouble killing Huron Indians that he had just said, "I come in peace" to.  And Uncas isn't as developed as he should be, but maybe that's why the affection he has for Alice is so touching- because it's so subtle.  The movie is still VERY entertaining and VERY well-done, and can be watched repeatedly without getting sick of it.