This isn't as horrible a movie as some people would like you to believe, but on the other hand, it's not particularly "scary" for a horror film, and once you see it a second time, you see all the clues that are dropped right in your lap.  This is one of those films that deliberately doesn't set itself up for a sequel, as everyone dies in the end (more or less).  It follows the silent, masked killer gimmick, which is fine, as no one wants someone wisecracking while he's trying to kill you, because only certain actors can pull it off.

Speaking of actors, let's talk about the cast.  The cast is entirely composed of hot young stars that clearly are cast to attempt to appeal to the younger audience.  So, in theory, with the star power that this film was able to attract, this should be a terrific movie (and really, it isn't a horrible movie in the slightest, and not nearly as cliched as people would lead you to believe, either.  However, the problem is that Hollywood loves to cast "pretty people" in TV and movies, and this film is no exception from Beverly Hills 90210's Daniel Cosgrove to Rosewell's Katherine Heigl to always reliable Denise Richards to popular attractive star Marley Shelton to Buffy the Vampire Slayer's David Boreanaz.

The problem?  Pretty people are nice to look at in the looks-obsessed movie business, but not all of them can act.  David Boreanaz is great as Angel because the role requires him to be wooden.  That's the biggest letdown of this film, as it seems obvious that Mr. Boreanaz was hired to basically be Angel in a different film.  Hopefully, he wasn't told by the director to be stiff.  He shows so much more personality as evil Angelus on Buffy than any other time.

The other actresses are fine, but Katherine Heigl is wasted in her too-short part that was only about 20 minutes long.  It is said she had commitments to Roswell, so she could only afford to film for a few days.  Her part could have been edited out and it wouldn't hurt the movie one way or the other.

If you're the kind who likes to play whodunnit, you'll figure it out soon enough.  The film does drop some red herrings to attempt to throw you off track, but the few false clues it does leave are kind of obvious in the fact that they are fake.  At about death #2, you'll start putting together the pieces, so really, that was the worst death, since that was the one that was the most obvious tip-off to the killer's identity.  Really, if you pay attention, you'll figure out the killer before you're halfway through.  The deaths also follow a certain trend, set up at the beginning of the film, so pay attention.

The film does leave a little mystery at the end, but the mystery that is set up isn't the mystery that people want to know.  The mystery that the film attempts to set up kind of falls on its face.

That said, some of the deaths are really kind of creative and a lot of fun, really.  Perhaps some people, having grown up on Jason and Freddy and that sort of thing, with tons of gore, won't like it.  On the other hand, while not as cerebral as Psycho, the killer is grounded in reality and doesn't magically manifest his weapons, it's all there if you look for it.

Not a lot of gore, but there ARE some fairly violent deaths.  It doesn't follow the typical formula of psycho killer kills everyone because he can, this is a killer who is a definite sociopath, and has a very specific target for his wrath.  He does deviate a slight bit, but it's necessary to make sure no one can identify him.

For the ladies, there's hunks like Boreanaz and Cosgrove, and for the men there's all the lovely ladies, especially Richards in her bikini in the hot tub (and the pseudo sex-scene before it, which is actually kind of funny, unless you're a guy!) and Marley Shelton wearing a terry-cloth towel.

Overall, a fun movie.  Definitely a film to watch with your significant other (to comfort her during the scary parts)!