I adore "Friends", and Season Three is one of my favorites.  This DVD would be five stars if not for the production quality of the DVD itself.
First, the honestly bad stuff -- two of the disks had major problems.  When you try to access the shows from the "whole episode" button on the episode list, the DVD plays the teaser, "preview" scene instead.  It's only on a few episodes and can be worked around (the whole episode is there, you just can't get there from the menu), but it's annoying.
Several episodes had problems with pixellation or skipping, and the beginning of the first episode (where the cast comes into Central Perk and finds the show's writers in their seats) is unwatchable, and will dump you back to the DVD menu if not fast-forwarded through.  I examined the disks carefully, and couldn't find any dust or scratches that would explain this... it had *just* arrived in the mail and had never been out of its case before.
This is just a nitpick, but... for me, these disks would be much more enjoyable to view if you could skip *scenes* -- especially the fountain-dancing credit sequence, which can get old after many episodes at once -- with the "chapter" button.  As it is, pressing the chapter button takes you to the next episode.
Like other reviews have commented, the "Special Features" on these DVD's are a little disappointing... especially if, like me, you're spoiled rotten by the wealth of cool inside information usually contained in DVD features.  Every feature is almost entirely clip montages of scenes already on the disk.  Season Three contains an "exploration" of Joey and Chandler's apartment... (A still picture with bits that light up, just like the ones of Central Perk and Monica and Rachel's on Seasons One and Two) with some tiny commentary from the crew.
The commentary from the producers on three episodes (The One With The Football, The One With The Morning After, The One Where No One's Ready) is the only real addition, but doesn't really provide much insight.  It's more like:
Marta:  Oh, Jennifer is great in this scene.
David:  Oooh, isn't she?
Marta:  Who wrote this episode?
David:  I don't remember.
Marta:  Well, it's funny.
David:  Yeah, it is.
Marta:  Oh, it's raining!  I love when we make it rain!
David:  It's so cool that we can do that.
Occasionally, they'll talk about something interesting (how they built the set for "The One With The Football", why characters had to be wearing certain costumes for technical reasons, or what was going on in real life that inspired a subplot) but mostly, it's just them chatting to each other.
These DVD's are worth it just to be able to watch this amazing show whenever you like, but as DVD's, they're a bit of a letdown.