First of all, I don't mean to sound holier-than-thou, but a GREAT many reviews of this film give away the entire ending to the film, even if they liked it!  I'm not one of that camp, and greatly respect the others here who didn't overindulge their need for analysis in such a revealing way.  Ok now with that out of the way, I'll say that Jacob's Ladder is, primarily, a drama, the story of Jacob, a Vietnam vet who is beginning to have troubling nightmares and hallucenations in which his real world is abruptly visited by what appear to be demons.  This is where the scares are genuinely startling, enough to classify this film generically as a horror flick even though it isn't at all.  You see, the demons Jacob sees appear utterly at random, at any time of day or night, in places safe and otherwise.  And he doesn't see them with such regularity that they become boring to the viewer.  Rather, they look like humans one second and then suddenly in the next frame they have abruptly become human only in appearance but with frightening features such as grotesque twitching movements and uninvited facial distortions.  Describing it can't give it justice, you have to see them and the great editing techniques in which they are shown to see why they're truly so startling.  The creatures are seen so suddenly without any tense musical buildup or cue, and usually also after enough normal time has passed, so when they do appear it's such a jarring shock that our reactions of fright aptly mirror those of Jacob himself.  Well, once he sees these demons, Jacob tries to figure out what's wrong with him, since he has also been slipping into dreamlike episodes in which he can't tell (nor can we) if he is living or dead, asleep or awake, and which time frame is the real one.  It is a confusing film in the storytelling structure, because it cuts back and forth between several apparently different times of Jake's life in which he has, alternately, 2 different wives and a son who is alive at one time and dead at another.  The viewer doesn't know initially why Jacob is seeing things, when he's dreaming or not, and which of the lives he's experiencing is the real one.  This is a storytelling choice, and it works.  Don't worry, you won't be alone because all throughout the film Jake is asking himself why he's seeing things, why he keeps remembering earlier times with his 1st wife (or dreaming of a different life with a second wife), and what is real.  Rest assured that by the end of the film you ARE given an ultimate answer that does make sense, but it's been argued that it's the weakest, "letdown" aspect of the movie.  I heartily disagree because the ending is one of the several possible outcomes that are hinted at during the film, and I can assume that it was considered a letdown by some because they were hoping for something more profound, or possibly less profound depending on their tastes.  But don't worry, I'm not trying to confuse you.  As a whole, the movie is a quiet drama in which we follow along with Jacob, trying to figure out why he's seeing what he's seeing, and by the end we do get an absolute answer.  It's worth viewing as a horror film as well (though I've pointed out I don't think of it as one) because the moments of shock and horror, and more than anything, just general creepiness, will linger with you for a while.  Moments in a subway, a hospital, and (to me) the most disturbing scene in an alleyway will stick with you, and are echoed in films like Session 9 and the Silent Hill video game series (though in Session 9 the threats are far more unseen).  If you've had enough patience to read to the end of this, I do urge you to watch this movie objectively, not worrying what the ending will be but instead putting yourself alongside Jacob and trying to digest the info you're being given.  Hopefully by the end you'll feel that the last link was completed, and at the very least, you should have had a good chill or 2 down your spine.
PS, IMPORTANT:  Please note that while the Jacob's Ladder special edition dvd DOES contain the features listed in the Amazon description, those features ARE NOT listed on the dvd packaging.  Don't worry, if you get that creepy dvd with an appropriately blurry Tim Robbins on the cover and the words "Special edition", you got the right disc.  Good luck, and I sincerely hope you enjoy (and get freaked out by) Jacob's Ladder.