I've seen some interesting reviews for this movie posted here. 'You may need to watch the movie twice to fully understand it' was one of the best comments I read. To put it bluntly, this film has no coherent storyline to follow and is in fact, total nonsense.
A lot of people have said that the first 15 mins of this movie were actually pretty good - frankly, I ask why? The whole 'fairy story' the film is based on, and its retelling at the beginning, are totally unoriginal. I've seen better on episodes of Buffy or similar dumb kids' TV shows. Admittedly, I don't think this film was intended for an audience containing anyone over the age of 12, considering its focus is fear of the dark and the big bad villain is a 'tooth fairy', but you can never be too sure.
Secondly, the acting, as has already been said, was wooden to say the least. In fact, the best actors in it were the the kids who played Kyle and Caitlin as children - the boy was believable and natural. Although the adult Kyle was HOT, he hardly put in an academy award winning performance, and older Caitlin was similarly uninspiring. Her kid brother was straight out of every other 'disturbed kid' movie I've ever seen - he was basically identical to the character of the little boy in The Ring.
And that's not the only film that Darkness Falls completely apes. Anyone heard of a movie called Jeepers Creepers? And to an even further extent, Jeepers Creepers 2. Both these films have a flying demonic creature, which swoops down on its unsuspecting prey and drags it off into the sky - ring any bells with viewers of Darkness Falls?
I can't even be bothered to go into the ludicrous storyline; the imaginative and totally believable name of the town, Darkness Falls, pretty much tells you all you need to know about the storywriting talent behind this movie. In short - DON'T PAY MONEY TO SEE THIS. I'd never say don't watch a movie, cos it's bound to be an experience however bad it is. And besides, as it only lasts about an hour and a quarter, it's less than your average awful slasher movie.