So here's the long awaited "Pretty In Pink", finally on DVD!  I really don't think I need to review the content of the movie- if you are reading this you have probably seen it!  I'm thrilled that Paramount has finally put this out on DVD.  But... and there is a BIG "but"....
There are no extra goodies on this DVD.  The original ending (Molly Ringwald ends up with Duckie) is not here.  (Check it out: Andrew McCarthy looks COMPLETELY different in the last seen. His hair is longer, his skin is whiter, and he looks about 10 years older, even though the ending was filmed only several months after the principle shooting ended!)  That is a total missed opportunity that legions of Molly Ringwald/Brat Pack/John Hughes/80's teen flick fans have been waiting to see for years!  There's not even a theatrical trailer on this DVD!  I can understand that deleted scenes, a theatrical trailer- these things can get lost in the vaults over the years. But you simply cannot tell me that they couldn't dig up the video for OMD's "If You Leave" to put on here!
Some commentary would have been great as well!  There are all sorts of things that the director could have discussed: OMD originally did a song for "Pretty In Pink" called "Goddess Of Love".  When the ending of the movie changed, they recorded a new song ("If You Leave")... "Goddess Of Love" ended up going on their "Pacific Age" album.  More trivia: Molly's favorite group at the time, The Rave-Up's, perform in the movie. (Their song wasn't on the soundtrack.)  Molly carries a notebook in "Sixteen Candles" that has "The Rave-Up's" handwritten across it.  
Watch out for an early performance by Gina Gershon!  She barely has any lines- I think she's in about two scenes.  You won't miss those lips of hers.  Also look for Dweezil Zappa (as "Simon").  Annie Potts practically steals the show in this pre-"Designing Women" performance.  Not to be missed!
All in all... this is a great DVD. It's nice to see it letterboxed.  Paramount just missed a big opportunity by not going the extra mile by putting out something special for such a beloved 80's movie.