First she took LA, now she takes Manhattan! With Sex and the City, now in its third season on HBO, Sarah Jessica Parker has created a compulsively watchable series! Parker stars as Carrie Bradshaw, the alter-ego of real-life NYC-based writer Candace Bushnell (the blonde bombshell of Manhattan Sex Columnists!), who is the author of the book which started it all. 
Thanks to great writing, real-life NYC backgrounds, and enthusiastic acting by the four female leads, Sex and the City is nearly flawless in its excellence and fun. If it has a flaw, perhaps it is that it is *completely addicting*! 
In addition to Parker's Carrie, there's Samantha, the beautiful, fun, (read, quite a bit more promiscuous than even the daring of us would ever be in real life!), and ever-so-spunky PR Executive. Confident, hilarious, and tough, her one-liners are a highlight of the show. Samantha is played by the "grow on you till you absolutely love her" Kim Cattrall. Then there's Miranda (Cynthia Nixon), the lawyer who some at her law firm, where she is trying to make Partner, think is gay. She's also very spunky, and adds another dimension to the four-tette of gals with her dry humour and sarcasm. Finally, there's Charlotte (Kristin Davis), the self-described husband hunter who is much more conservative than the other three, but who still loves men, and who can't wait to find her Mr. Right. The comedy and fun lies in watching her search, often in vain, for just that, in the available (and as we see, sometimes not-so-available) pool of Manhattan men!
To round things out, there are beautiful men to boot! There's Mr. Big, Carrie's on-again, off-again Prince Charming, who will slay you with his charm, his smile, his mysterious appearances, cute little waves (usually directed towards the smitten Carrie), and his just as mysterious disappearances. He's Beautiful Eye Candy, and has just enough of that Bad Boy Elixir to keep Carrie (and all of us) yearning for more more MORE! Mr. Big, or "Big," as he is called by the ladies, is played by Chris Noth from Law and Order (Det. Mike Logan).
Manhattan and all of New York City are just as much characters on the show as Carrie and her buds. The show is filmed on location all over NYC, and this really makes the show what it is. Living in real Manhattan apartments, the characters take walks in Central Park, along New York's city streets, by day, and by night, and spend afternoons and evenings at various restaurants and clubs around the city. All these great settings on the show make me want to visit New York, and see in person the unique greatness which shines on the screen. This show has a more realistic view of NYC than, say, the film You've Got Mail, and others. Sex shows NYC as lovely, fast-paced, gritty, and thrilling, all at the same time. I think the show gives you a tiny window into what it would be like to live in New York: the sounds, the people, the rhythm. Though of course, these gals do quite well with their work, and so have great apartments, and shop early and often for their $400.00 Manolo Blanhik or Jimmy Choo shoes, so 'realistic' is all relative! This show is just for *fun*. It's happy, and it's got just enough "non" thrown in with its fiction to make it a show which is truly exciting to watch, even for the third or fourth time. These gals feel like articulate and stylish friends that I get to visit now and again, and who consistently make me Laugh out Loud! Forget Therapy! Get enough  "Sex!" 
If you are going to buy the first season of Sex and the City, the DVD's the way to go, if possible. First of all, there's better picture quality, but the true greatness comes in not having to fast-forward to get to all your favorite episodes! Plus, the six episodes on each disc are laid out clearly on a menu, complete with short descriptions and previews, if its been a while since you've had your 'Sex,' and you want to get right to the best bits! That said, there's not much filler here, the half-hour episodes are pretty much packed with excellent, witty writing, and va va voom acting. Please note that this show does contain risque subject matter and scenes, and so is really appropriate for adults only. 
This is a must-see for all you women out there, and for the men, well, I think you'll love it just as much. It's impossible to watch only one episode per sitting. But I dare you to try! Good luck! :)