The movie ,The History Boys, raises many issues that surround education: power issues, political issues, societal pressures, fallible students and instructors, questions of pedagogy, school as fulfillment center vs. societal inculcator, as well as the overall goal of education.

  The power relations, rarely discussed in formal schooling, are evident between the students and teachers and the politics of administration. The movie questions the notion of  school as a harmonious community. Each part of the school feels different pressures.  There is pressure on the Headmaster to produce students who go to prestigious schools. Teachers have pressures navigating the appropriate "professional distance" with their students especially when confided in by their students with very real and personal problems, This is wonderfully shown in the scene where Mrs. Linott explains the process of nicknaming to Irwin after Posner has confided in him. There is pressure on the students to succeed in the adult world, the world outside of school evidenced by the pressure Dakin and the gang feels to get into Cambridge or Oxford.
In the movie, social status and material success can be attributed to going to one of these schools. "Happiness" is achievable going to other schools but is the Headmaster does not give priority to this attainment. Hector reminisces about the happiness he had at the college he went too though he it wasn't extremely reputable. Similarly, his foil, Irwin  was also happy at his school though does not reveal this to his students because he achieved his job on false pretenses. The film presents happiness and social status as dichotomous opposites in English society, though it is applicable to our own.

  The political nature of schooling is commented on by both Irwin and Mrs. Linott ,the history teacher. In a powerful scene, Irwin takes the students to the WWI memorial to reveal to the students how little truth plays a part in education. By claiming something to the effect that commemorating something in history is to hide the truth. This is an extension of the theory that history is written by the conquerors. This philosophy dictates that schools are not places of self-exploration, self-fulfillment, or truth seeking but rather as a way to inculcate students to "play the game" or submit to societal conventions to succeed over personal happiness, justice or truth. There are numerous references between "pretending" as a means of living, lying as a lifestyle versus telling the truth. This debate is symbolized in the different teaching styles between Hector and Irwin culminated in the discussion where Irwin and Hector teach the same class. Hector places great value on what students hold to be important and true while Irwin holds great value on what you can prove.

 The notion of efficiency and utility regarding what is taught in school is an issue to this day because different factors are competing to accomplish their own agendas. Two of these agendas are personified in the characters of Headmaster and Hector.  The Headmaster's teaching philosophy is that of the machine. He does not want to teach anything that he can't qualify, that can't be measured. This he spells out clearly in the scene where he fires Hector: "...all your crushed violets". Hector's teaching style counteracts this philosophy which he calls "controlled silliness". A notable point about the film is that all the faculty, except the delusional headmaster, are  self-aware, vulnerable and imperfect characters. The instability of what it means to teach is emphasized by this vulnerability.

 Education's ultimate result is to produce a student like Rudge who is self-directed in a positive way. Rudge is not concerned with achieving greatness or truth but is concerned with doing what he likes. It is sad because he was the student that the faculty placed the least value on, as the Headmaster says, You can't polish a turd", but he was the one student who could have taught them all something.  Even Mrs. Linott who is aware of the shortsightedness, political bias, and sexism of her profession evidenced by her outburst of "history being a record of man's mistakes" does not realize till the end how well Rudge has succeeded.

 The film offers a realistic view education. Education does not take place in a vacuum removed from the social and political problems of the students, teachers and the greater society.  It also reveals that learning is a process that never stops evidenced by the teachers not having all the answers. It reveals through Hector's teaching style and Rudge's self-direction that, in the process of "educating our children" , it is important that we do not lose track of appreciating the capacity to express and experience joy as essential criteria to a good life.