The Coen Brothers.  You either love `em or you hate `em, right?  There's very little middle ground where these boys are concerned.  And that includes the professional critics.  Oh Brother, Where Art Thou? gets either an F or 500 Thumbs Up.  
Me, I'm firmly entrenched in the love `em camp.  Sure, their work presents a decidedly grim view of human nature, even in the comedies.  Sometimes a little tenderness and humanity do manage to peek through, but that has nothing to do with why I am a fan and student of theirs.  What I love is the sheer brilliance and depth of creativity that they continue to demonstrate on all fronts.
Take Raising Arizona, for instance.  I've seen it 15 or 20 times by now, and I'm still mining its riches.  
Sometimes I watch it for the obvious things, like the camera work; the trademark low-to-high angles, the framing and composition of nearly every shot, the character's eye views when Hi is being twirled over one of his prison buddy's head or lying on his side on the floor of the trailer, the saturated, hyper-realistic color of the daytime Arizona desert or the nighttime interior of a convenience store.
Other times I focus in on the writing. Maybe it's the dialog and it's context, like the bank robbery scene.  "All right you hayseeds, freeze and get down on the floor.  Well which one is it gonna be? Freeze or get down on the floor?.... Where'd all the tellers go?  They're down on the floor, like you told `em."  Or the convenience store escape scene, where Hi and Ed alternate between near hysterical argument and Hi calmly giving driving directions to Ed.
Or maybe it's the richness, subtlety, and attention to detail of the storyline; the shopkeeper who starts counting when commanded to ("one Mississippi, two Mississippi, ...) and who is still counting when we drive back by later ("971 Mississippi, ...), the convict buddy who steps back into the trailer to pick up a copy of Dr. Spock after kidnapping Nathan Jr., the growling inmate who is still mopping the floor every time Hi returns to prison, making progress at glacial speed.
Or take my favorite recent example.  I'm watching the movie with my wife, who is in my opinion, the most talented continuity expert not working in Hollywood.  In the middle of the c-store holdup scene, when Hi runs out and jumps in the car, she says, "Where are the Huggies?"  A minute or two later, Hi reaches down out of the speeding car and gathers in the Huggies, which were lying in the road.
This last time, it was the sound that caught my attention.  Not just the music, but the entire sound package.  Don't get me wrong.  The music by Carter Burwell, especially the banjo, yodeling and whistling, ranks right up there in awesome inventiveness with the zither music of Anton Karas in The Third Man and the work that Bernard Herrmann did for Alfred Hitchcock, and anyone who includes a smidgen of Ode to Joy on the banjo over the closing credits certainly has my vote.  
But wait, there's more!  Pay attention when Glen comes to Hi's trailer to fire him.  After Hi tells him to lower his voice, Glen says he'll talk "... as loud as I PLEASE!"  When he raises his voice on the word Please, it is the only word that produces an echo from the surrounding desert.  Is that subtle enough for you?
And I've only scratched the surface....