This review is for the "new version." If you are like me and absolutely have to watch the new version no matter what, then I suggest not reading the ongoing. On the other hand if you don't mind peeking into the new version before purchasing the DVD, read on.
The 51 extra minutes in the new version is devoted to the rendez-vous of Toto with Elena -- Toto's first love, whom he met as a teenager -- in their later years. These scenes are inserted around the scene in which Toto converses with his mother after returning home from Rome after 30 years. In brief, Toto runs into a young lady who surprisingly resembles the young Elena; he pursues her and finds out that she is indeed the daughter of Elena. Toto meets with Elena and talks about days long past...
Many minutes of the extra footage are wasted on Toto trying to find out how he and Elena missed each other on the day Toto departed for Rome. Equally if not longer minutes are spent on explaining how all that happened. It turned out that on the day of departure Elena did come to see Toto at cinema paradiso, albeit a bit too late. She greets Alfredo instead. Alfredo persuades her to allow Toto to leave. As had been portrayed in the original version, Alfredo sees a great future in Toto, and for this he asks Elena to understand. He pretends to Toto that he did not hear from Elena.
I am tempted to make an intellectual argument that, by creating an additional character -- the old Elena -- important to Toto, Tornatore had made the plot of the wonderful original messy (Remember the scene where cinema paradiso gets blown up? The poignancy of that scene gets lost due to the additional footage). However I won't use this argument. I was disappointed by the fact that Alfredo had to be reduced to a liar, whereas in the original Alfredo had remained the one who cared for Toto the most, the one who believed in Toto the most. Ok, ok, I admit that I am attached to Alfredo. But if you weren't, you wouldn't be reading this to begin with, would you?
There are stories better left untold. I had no concrete examples of this saying till I watched the new version.
If you are like me, you'll watch the new version regardless.