Ahhh, the 70s, drive-ins, no cell phones, no texting, bad hair, groovy duds... this is the perfect purchase for lovers of all things 70s cheese. First of all, I love Zalman King and he is so freaky-deaky in Trip with the Teacher...finally this violent, warped, nutty gem is out on DVD. His performance is really creepy and intense. Zalman was actually a really interesting actor, wish he would have done more than act in three movies I am aware of. For those who don't know, he went on to direct, most notably, Wild Orchid.

Malibu High was the surprise treat; talk about a crazy, fun, bad girl flick. The acting is horendous, the plot out of this world funny, and if you love these sorts of cult (especially 70s), B and C movies with non-sensical editing, bongo tracked chase scenes, sleazy soft core, roll around simulated sex scenes, teenagers in peril or "growing up too fast" you cannot go wrong with this collection. Malibu High and Trip with the Teacher are worth the cheap price alone.

I have a couple more to watch and found the Pick-up to be too boring to watch in entirity (spacy drug stuff, not much dialog a half hour into it/would rather watch Psych-Out). Maybe I'll have more patience some other day. Cindy & Donna was kind of funny & warped (great scenes with the MOM..her drunken dialog and delivery are brilliantly bad), but the movie is annoyingly disjointed and could have been better. There were lots of scenes of teenage Cindy sitting in her room alone touching herself, putting clothes on, taking them off, her existence & expression at times was so boring I wanted to shoot myself. And, fair warning: her "half" (this is significant because the Dad in this flick is "Dad" to Cindy, Step Daddy to Donna) loose sister has her share of borderline gag inducing sex scenes and her breasts are no joy to behold...also the Dad is GROSS and likes 'em young (and in his house sometimes, if ya catch my drift). Yeppers...1971 and a family unit to behold. If this is the sort of family unit that so many refer to as being "lost" and in danger of decline, I think we should all be grateful.

The Step Sister was sort of interesting (starring a young John Savage) and I don't have much to elaborate upon...still worth a check. The Teacher was truly funny (non-intentionally, of course) and stars a "grown-up" Dennis the Menace coming of age (in those simulated roll around sex-scenes) with his saucy, blond teacher.

I am off to check out the Stepmother and Best Friends...
My advice, if you enjoy this kind of bad sleeze, and are not ashamed to admit it? Pick this puppy up, grab a sixer, invite over some of your equally warped friends and make a night of it!