Ric Flair IS the greatest of all time. There will NEVER be another performer like this man, and this DVD shows exactly why. This is possibly the most AWESOME DVD ever released by the WWE and it will likely stay that way until the WWE releases a Bret Hart DVD. But onto this DVD. It's AWESOME like I said before. Here's my review:

Disc One

vs. Harley Race, Starrcade 83 (This excellent match is of much of slower pace than today's type matches, but it's worth a look. Flair winning the NWA Title is one of the special moments in pro wrestling history.) *****

vs. Dusty Rhodes, Starrcade 85 (Not a classic in the technical wrestling sense, but give it a look ONLY if you've never seen it before. Flair & Rhodes had an extensive series of matches in the 80s.) **1/2

vs. Barry Windham, Worldwide 87 (This AWESOME match got the ENTIRE Worldwide show in 87, and if not for the Savage vs. Steamboat match at Wrestlemania III, this would've been the match of the year for 97. A definite classic.)*****

Disc Two

vs. Ricky Steamboat, Clash Of The Champions VI, 2/3 Falls (The second big match for these two athletes. Classic, classic, classic, this one IS breathtaking.)*****

vs Ricky Steamboat, WrestleWar 89 (Another classic with Steamboat where Flair wins the NWA title for the 6th time. They had the greatest series of matches EVER in 1989)*****

vs. Terry Funk, Clash Of The Champions IX, I-Quit match (One of the first true matches to embrace the hardcore stipulation before ECW came. A very wild, outstanding brawl, which is also the best I-Quit match ever)*****

Disc Three

The 1992 Royal Rumble match (This rumble match set the standard for all preceding rumbles to follow. Flair's one man show is one for the ages as he wins the vacant WWF title.)*****

vs. Sting, Clash Of The Chaampions XXVII (Not that great, but give it a look if you never seen it. Flair unifies the WCW and WCW International World Titles in this match.) ***

Also, check out the bonus features and easter eggs as well.

Easter Eggs (hidden features):

Disc 1: Go to Chapters. Right click on the chapter titled: "Barry Windham: Keeping up with the Champ." You will see a promo from Flair from the Summer of 1985 where he talks about Magnum T.A., Nikita Koloff, Buddy Landell and James J. Dillon (3:30)

Disc 1: Go to Chapters. Go to the Dusty Rhodes chapter section. Left click on the sub-chapter titled: "Flair Cuts a Promo." You will see the never-before-seen "Lost Promo" from Flair!On the 8/31/85 edition of World Championship Wrestling on TBS, Ric Flair opened the show doing a promo with Tony and David where they announced Ric Flair had been awarded "Man of the Year" by the Wrestling Press International in New York. It was one of Flair's greatest interviews and the TBS studio crowd was eating it up as Flair rattled off all the names of his opponents, faces and heels alike. Only one problem. No one saw it. As would often happen, the Atlanta Braves ran long that afternoon, the interview was pre-empted,and the show was joined in progress about 15 minutes in. Later in the show, when Flair and Ivan Koloff were having a confrontation, Ivan made reference to the interview and Flair being Man of Year, but no one would know specifically what Ivan was referring to until now! (2:07)

Disc 2: Go to Chapters. Right click on "Home." You will see a promo with David Crockett and Ric Flair following the newly formed Horsemen injuring Dusty Rhodes.

Disc 2: Go to Chapters. Left click on the chapter titled: "Day in Life of the Horsemen." You will see a promo with Flair from June 1987 talking about Jim Garvin, The Freebirds and Larry Bird.

Disc 3: On the main menu page go to Play. Left click and once the WWE logo is highlighted, hit enter. You will see a Flair promo from 1987 talking about the Road Warriors, Freebirds, Jim Garvin and Precious (2:14)

Disc 3: Go to Chapters. Go to the Special Night in Greenville chapter section. Go to the bottom and select Menu. The beer in the picture will highlight. Hit enter.You will see Flair's WWEEntrace video featuringSprach Zarathustra (Theme from 2001: A Space Odyssey)(1:54)

Disc 3: Go to Chapters. Go to theSpecial Night in Greenville section.Click down to "The Final Nitro" and then click left you will see the origin of the WOOOOO! and all of the Superstars imitate it including J.R. and the King and even the people that work backstage.

Overall, this DVD is a must have for ANY wrestling fan.