This unusual documentary is actually two documentaries in one. Arguably, the main focus is a "making of" chronicle concerning an opera entitled DOCTOR ATOMIC, the very unlikely subject of which is physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer and the development of the atomic bomb. Composer John Adams and director Peter Sellars get the lion's share of the attention here. We also see rehearsals, construction of the huge atomic bomb prop, and comments from some of the cast and behind-the-scenes personnel. What we don't see very much is the actual performance of DOCTOR ATOMIC, which would appear to be very offbeat and artsy, with impressive music. The sum total of this portion of WONDERS ARE MANY reminds one strongly of such supplementary features as are commonly included as Special Features on movie DVDs...fairly interesting, but one is left wanting a bit more.

The second, better portion uses PBS-style documentary techniques to tell the actual historical story upon which DOCTOR ATOMIC is based. Included is "recently declassified" footage from the 1940s, some of which is quite gruesome: one sequence shows farm animals being blown away in a bomb test, and there are shots of incinerated corpses, presumably from the Hiroshima and/or Nagasaki attacks. Beware if you run this with children around. Oppenheimer is seen in interview footage, as are some other participants, but still photos are also used a lot. The Los Alamos story deserves the full treatment, but, again, it's inadequately told here.

These two different documentaries are not separately presented, but intertwined as one; personally, I would rather have seen them separated and expanded upon. To me, that approach would have been more satisfying, but, as is, WONDERS ARE MANY at least attempts something a bit different. As to the actual DVD disc, it is manufactured on demand from DVD-R media rather than conventionally pressed. There is no menu at all. Picture quality is fine, though the full-frame treatment of my review copy renders the names of interviewees unreadable; it is hoped that the genuine article will be in the proper screen ratio.

Bottom Line: WONDERS ARE MANY is certainly not without interest, but it just as certainly could (and should) have been better.