Well, let me add my two cents...

The movie, as mentioned by so many others, is a contrived plot to link the two series.  But, I had heard that the studio did not meet Nemoy's demands for story changes and thus lost the chance to really make it a meaningful link with all the main TOS characters.  Nemoy might have even directed?  Now THAT would have been inspired.  Oh well.  Spock and Bones NOT in the story already dooms the plot.  Plus all those silly holes... all right it is Science Fiction.  But, why did Soren get pulled back from the Nexus when Kirk and Picard came back from the Nexus?  Why didn't Kirk and Picard just go back to when Soren was found on the observatory and arrest him then?  If Kirk was in the Nexus 80 years before Picard showed up, why is he only just cooking those eggs?  Also, when the Nexus ribbon had hit the planet, did the crew on the crashed Enterprise get sucked in too?  Why not show us this?  And, with all these folks crowding in the Nexus, why is it only Guinin who appears to Picard?  One other point, all through the Next Generation TV show, there is this brooding romantic spark between Picard and Dr. Crusher.  If that was so, why is Picard's Nexus family (and especially his Nexus wife) such old fuddy-duddy farts?  ("Oh paPAH, I just love the dolly!")

OK, besides all this, we have some excellent acting by Brent Spiner and Patrick Stewart.  PS's scenes when he is struggling to deal with the death of his brother and nephew are wrenching and so understated.  He is a gem.  BS's comic manic emotion-chip stuff is priceless.  Unfortunately, William Shatner scenes are also understated.  After all these years, he decides to listen to all his critics and tones it down?  Wrong move, we expect him to be over the top.  The much-hated rusty bolts close-ups and the rather uninspired death of Kirk is a downer.  I am surprised Shatner didn't stamp his foot and say NO!

The extra features have this thrown-together, the-fans-will-buy-anything feel to them.  Do we really need to see that piece about the knives?  I am sure Paramount has extra stuff for TNG fans to drool over, but they are sadly lacking.  Besides, extras with no-trailers is a rip-off.  Did they even bother to mention Tuvok as a human on the bridge of the Enterprise-B?

But as a Trek fan, I too, like cattle, ran to buy this DVD and will problably buy all the rest as they come out.  But, hopefully Paramount will treat us with the proper respect and give us something really special for our money next time.