I have watched this video 40 times and each time I get more out of it for being so shockingly real. Williams is a genius in psychology and how human systems create insanity in  all the nuances of the collision between the gross and the fine, the male and female elements, gentile and vulgar, the delicate and the course, the inward and outward.  What female or sensitive male has not experienced this collision and been unable to explain it? But human systems create and maintain insanity and this video shows it the best. Stanley overheard Blanch downputting him to his wife Stella as "common and vulgar, like an ape" and he became vindictive, aiming to be rid of her.  This story unfolds around that plot and her grips on reality dissolve accordingly.  Initially hypersensitive and convalescing from a young marriage ending in suicide, Blanch is again confronted with sorrow in adapting to her brother-in-law and her zvengalized sister.  As Stanley becomes more ruthless, she seeks protection more from "Mitch" his buddy.  Then Stanley finds out that in her town of "Oriel" she was a prostitute.  Female psychology shows that early female promiscuity is often just a seeking of protection from the male element, and an inability to "just say no" is from fear of reprisal and lost protection.  But society doesn't see it that way and she escaped Oriel to her sister's domicile.  She wants Mitch for the same reason "just to finally relax--I am so tired of fearing." Such women go from man to man for protection, and since it doesn't work regress more with time and as they are labeled whorish their sink into insanity is next. She was thrown out of the first town because of her affair with a 17-yr old boy, duplicated in a scene with the newspaper boy who was superbly kind, gentlemanly, respectful and gentle (in direct contrast to Stanley) and so here again, she kisses him as a link to gentile reality, and confirmation as a lady. The most ruthless and cruel contradiction is when Stanley rapes Blanche and soon after commits her to a mental hospital.  The "kind doctor" arrives and takes her away on his arm, and she seems in love, "always dependent on the kindness of strangers."  The viewer is left to wonder what happens next--does she link to the kind elderly father doctor, and does Stella really reject Stanley for good, transfering her love to her baby?