"Big Fish" plays a little game with its viewers. We are never ahead or in a better position then Will, the son to judge if what we see is plain fantasy or if there are "bits and pieces" of truth in what we see and he heard from his dad... Off course, everything seems like a long fantastical story, but here and there, especially towards the end of the movie, we get some hints that maybe some of these fantastical tales could have really happened. So where does this leave us and is it really important to know? We remain uncertain, but undergo the same process as the son, and learn to appreciate other things but the mere "truth".

It seems that the only real "reality" in this movie are the very real emotions: shame, anger, love, jealousy are depicted in a way that makes us believe. Especially believable is the strained relationship between father and son. This is transferred  during "Big Fish" beginning moments, which give the viewer the whole problematic situation.... Indeed what can you do with a father that insists on being always on center stage, even on his son's wedding night? Personally, I can't stand the type... The son, telling the story, seems to be warning the viewers in advance "beware...do not fall for this guy (as everyone else does)"... but then takes you to a journey that ends with you, the viewer, just like the son, falling in love with Edward Bloom's character and storytelling in general.

A key element in the film lies with the witch's "eye" telling "how one is going to die". Although we get to see what the "eye" tells two other kids, we never know how Edward Bloom is going to end his life (or at least what the "eye" said about it), so we never know if the "eye" did tell the truth and hence if the story was true. I believe this to be a key element as the knowledge of "how I am going to die" (or rather "I am not going to die from other things") seems to be a main element in Bloom's life and a knowledge that let him be the fearless character he was - at least according to his stories.

All stories are heard with wide-open eyes but are not believed. Nor by the son nor by us, the viewers.... In the end I believe that what the movie is trying to say is that maybe our belief is not so important. If this is your story... well then let it be. Or maybe the message is "Live hard and die hard". Live with all your might and love with all your might. Live it to the full.

The film is best regarded as a lovely fantasy tale with many bizarre creatures that people of all ages can enjoy. My young sons, watching the movie with me, loved the witch, the giant and the twins... But other then that this is also a story of coming to terms with whom you really are, after finding out what your heritage is really...and then learning to accept it as it is. Although the process of understanding was no surprise (anyone could guess that he film was going to end with the son telling a story), I did like the way it was told.