Batman couldn't be better, whether in a live action or an animated feature, Mask of the Phantasm sets a high standard that has so far been unsurpassed.  While Mask of the Phantasm is animated, this film should not be mistaken for a children's cartoon.  The plot is sophisticated, providing more insight into Batman/Bruce Wayne's personality than any of the dreck that Tim Burton has turned out.  
The story is told partially in the present and partially through flash back.  Someone is knocking off some old time crime bosses and Batman is the primary suspect.  I don't want to give too much away, but the flash back sequences link back to when Bruce Wayne was first becoming Batman.  The love of his life has returned, and Bruce/Batman is faced with some difficult decisions regarding the price he has paid to wage his war on crime.  The great thing about this movie is the characters.  Bruce Wayne is a multifaceted character whose hopes and dreams have become subrogated to his Batman persona.  This movie really explores that aspect of his personality.  Make no mistake, like any Batman film, there's plenty of action but the story is character driven.  The voice talents are excellent.  Kevin Conroy has really defined the Batman character.  Dana Delaney gives the Andrea Beaumont character a sensual vivacity that hasn't been seen in any of the female characters in other Batman films.  Mark Hammil is perfect as the Joker.
The DVD production is solid if unspectacular.  The picture is crystal clear and really serves to highlight the palette of colors employed by the artists.  The film is intended to have a noir-like quality, and this is really felt on the DVD.  The DVD comes with the widescreen presentation on one side and the pan and scan on the opposite side.  The soundtrack has been reproduced magnificently.  The score and the sound effects really resonate with strong clarity.  My complaints are twofold.  At times the dialogue seemed rather muted when compared with the overpowering sound effects.  I found myself constantly turning down the volume during the action scenes and cranking it up again during dialogue.  The dialogue seems particularly muted, since I had to turn the TV volume higher than usual.  It would've been nice to see more extras.  Other than the trailer and a french language track, there's nothing else here.  If you're looking for a Batman fix or a solid film, this is the purchase for you.