To find this film after all these years. I saw it in the theater when it was released. Back then I was in my early 20s. They couldn't make enough suspense/horror films for me, lol. Am thinking I saw every one that was released during the early- to late-'80s when the genre was still popular.

Over time I had forgotten the title of this one but not the details. A friend on a forum site found the title recently.

As has been mentioned in previous reviews, the last half hour or so of this film is what makes it so memorable. Worm-riddled corpses dressed in rotted period clothing or what's left of it, seemingly resurrected from the grave and moving toward the viewer. These final scene effects were quite detailed and realistic for the time.

Adam West plays a rather boorish role as RayMar's son-in-law. Not West's finest hour but it's nice to see him looking so young.

Unlike many suspense flicks of the era, One Dark Night doesn't spring those heart-stopping surprises that caused one to jump back in his seat (and in doing so, dump twenty dollars worth of popcorn and Coke Cola on the theater floor and your girlfriend's good outfit). Rather, the story line builds slowly, allowing the viewer to focus on what's happening.

This film is more in the suspense genre than the horror genre. Horror film icons like Freddy Krueger and Chuckie were great at what they did. Unlike a good suspense flick the horror genre focuses more on blood and gore than telling a story.

Agreed, One Dark Night carries the infamous "teen fright" baggage. But so do some of Stephen King's stories. Like any fine suspense tale, it builds to a climax and gets good at the end.

Some younger viewers who are accustomed to today's elaborate, computer-generated effects and 3-D animation may not be overly impressed by this film. It does contain some props that reflect the times. Props such as rotary dial telephones, pinball machines and the 75¢ photo booth. Our hero rides a motorcycle with no brain bucket. The teens aren't texting not chatting on cell phones. But as the old saying goes, you had to be there. :)

4 stars for the less-than-stellar transition from the original. Aside from than that, I love it. It's great to see it again. Kudos to the folks at Amazon for quick shipping.