To me, this movie is neither about cowardice nor heroism.  I think my views are a result of my time at Khe Sanh, Vietnam, almost 40 years ago.

I saw the 1939 version 50 years ago, and it has always been imprinted in my mind.  That is why I bought the version which has the Director's comments included, which I think adds much to the enjoyment of the movie.

The reason I say this movie version is not about cowardice, regardless of Mason's intentions in his book, is because Harrys reason's for resigning are well stated in the movie: He is in love, and he never wanted to be a soldier.  He is only in the army because his father is a general and he is compelled by family tradition and loyalty to follow in his father's footsteps.  However, once he made the commitment to his buddies, he should not have resigned, and that is what compels him to go to Sudan-principally to fulfill his obligation to his buddies, and only secondarily to salvage his Victorian Era self-image.  Jack Durrance's speach at the end, nicely, and quite cleverly I thought, ties this facet of the movie together.

As to political correctness, I failed to see where the movie suffered due to a few lines which could be critisized for this.  When at Khe Sanh, more than a few times I must admit, I asked myself the question "What possible reason is there for a poor kid from a mining town in Arizona to be living like an animal in a red clay foxhole a few miles from Laos and the DMZ in Vietnam, firing his rifle at another poor kid he can't even see who is fighting IN HIS OWN COUNTRY for his country's freedom?"  I thought the British military tradition, on both an Empire and an individual foot-soldier level was very well presented in a favorable light.

I believe the Abu Fatma chaacter contributed enormously to the success of the film.  The Islamic obligation of courtesy, respect and charity (which I have personally experienced in my travels with my wife of 39 years in Turkey and the Middle East) was an enjoyable, and in my opinion essential, aspect.

No movie exactiy reflects the book, and some changes to plot, etc., don't bother me.  It's the overall presentation which is important.

I highly recommend this movie to anyone.