"A League of Their Own" (1992), directed by Penny Marshall, takes place during the World War II era. Since a lot of male baseball players were being drafted to the armed forces, an All American Girls Baseball League was formed to try to keep the prosperity of baseball alive in America. The two main characters Dottie Hinson (Geena Davis) and Kit Keller (Lori Petty) join up with a whole turnout of women including the flirtatious Mae Mordabito (Madonna) and the strong, bold Doris Murphy (Rosie O'Donnell), and experience life as a female athlete during the 1940's. Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks) is one of the male coaches hired to coach one of the all woman teams, and is one of the many that show transformation throughout the season.
This movie is full of stereotypical ideas of what a female should be, but that is not to say that the movie promotes these ideas. Some examples could be shown through the uniforms that the women are forced to wear, which consists of a skirt! As stated in the movie, the women are to act "ladylike" and are sent to a beauty school, where they are taught "ladylike" manners and are given makeovers. We see in Dottie Hinson, whose husband Bob Hinson (Bill Pullman) is away at war, the outlook of women back then as she almost quits the league by the final game because Bob returns from the war and Dottie's aspirations are to start a family and be a housewife. Even in Jimmy Dugan, the coach barely cares at first about the team and states "girls can't play baseball", and how he doesn't have a team of ballplayers, but a "team of girls". We see a transformation however in him that shows his true love of the game, looking past what gender roles were considered back then. Although there are many more, one last example discussed here is Marla (Megan Cavanagh), who is a better hitter than most men, yet is almost not allowed in the league because she is considered "ugly".
This movie was excellent. It shows how hard it was for women to be taken seriously outside of "housewife" labels that were bestowed upon them, yet it adds great humor throughout to make it a very entertaining, yet educational film!