If it wasn't for having cable, I do not believe I would have ever seen this movie. For one I am not a big fan of Leonardo Dicap. Yet, the misleading title, Man in the Iron Mask, is what seemed to bar my curiosity of wanting to see it. It sounded like another one of the glamorous post renaissance movies that was popular in the late 90s. If anything more than that I imagined it to be a strange super hero story. And I did not know that John Malkovich and Lolita's main character, Jeremy Irons was in it.

However, I am glad to have finally seen this film. It is a wonderful twist and other side of the awesome legend and adventure of the three musketeers. Even Leonardo DiCaprio did exceptionally okay in it.
The costumes and sets were incredibly matched to the period they had once downed.

As a living history lover of another history, the American War of Northern Aggression, the role of the musketeers in this film greatly reminded me of such true figures as Major General JEB Stuart, Major Heroes Von Burke of Stuart's staff, General Robert E Lee, Major General George Pickett, Lt. General Nathan Bedford Forrest, Lt. General Joseph Wheeler, Colonel John Mosby, Lt. General Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson, and other leaders in the Confederate War for Independence.

It was during the War of Northern Aggression when the gallantry, chivalry, and romance, that the French Musketeers made famous, had taken its last stand. Gone forever from then was a knighthood of men that lived and died gloriously.
What of the Northern side of the war? Though many Northern leaders may have been as good of men as any, they lacked that ode to land and home, that flourish of flag and saber, and the brilliantly lit devotion to a cause bigger than they. Whether for political motives or duty or as military service to their government, even the most flashy of Northern officers like for example Armstrong Custer, did not meet the brand of fire of that fire eater States Rights Gist sacrificed with or the Old Blue Light that described the true character of Stonewall Jackson.
Compare the memoirs of Southern officers with those of Northern officers and you might even agree though you might not like.
Study the photographs and paintings of the opposing sides and you'll also notice the manic differences between the plumed hat Southern cavalryman and the simple light blue trousers and blue sack coat of the Federal soldiers.

These were some of the things that this Civil War history buff noticed when watching Man in the Iron Mask.
As a Southron man I did really love to see a movie that beheld the same proud traits of manhood and honor in this movie and the historically accurate story behind Gods and Generals.