A masterfull piece of work by the new great filmmaker Sam Mendes, director of "American Beauty" (1999). This is the 2nd best gangter movie of all time which is "Road to Perdition" (2002). It also sure is one of the best looking movies of all time, great look! Conrad L. Hall's spectacular cinematography is sure to win a oscar, Tom Hanks is yet again great; in a great project to work on, the screenplay by David Self is also first-rate; which was adapted from the graphic novel by Max Alan Collins and Richard Piers Rayner, and one of the best supporting casts ever assembled in a motion picture include names like Paul Newman, Jude Law, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Daniel Craig, Stanley Tucci, and the biggest surprise is the kid actor Tyler Hoechlin as Micheal Sullivan Jr, the son of Micheal Sullivan played by Hanks. And the one other great thing about this movie is the great production design;just great, and lastly this is a something they used little, but the visual effects used in the movie should get a definate oscar nomination (watch when Micheal Sullivan Jr. looks out the car window when he sees Chicago, and Chicago is reflected on the windows while the camera is in a circular motion on the car). I hope the visual effects wins against my prediction for "LOTR: The Two Towers" (for one of there accomplishments on making Gollum as realistic as possible).
 The film is dark on subject matter, which it could be hard to watch at times, but it is without a doubt a masterpiece. I forgot about the music! The musical score by Thomas Newman is fantastic, the music will definately get an oscar nomination. Sam Mendes and Steven Spielberg (who directed one of my favorite films of the year "Minority Report") will have a face-off at the 2002 Oscars.
 You probably know what's the best gangster movie which is "The Godfather" (1972), and there are other great gangster movies out there, but nothing can't stop the skilled craftsmanship put together in "Road to Perdition" (2002). Sam Mendes really knows what he's doing!