First let me say, I am a devoted Glee fan despite my disappointment over the "character abductions" that occurred during season 2.  And now to my two cents:

COMPLAINTS:

First off, I'd like to know why the characters of Glee have been replaced with alien lifeforms?

I miss Sue!  The REAL Sue!  The one who is awful all the way until a kid is in legitimate danger or personal pain at which point her heart is revealed to care after all!  The new Sue is horrible... what a waste of the perfect balance of wicked and sweet achieved in season 1.  Now... she's just mean.  Her jokes are still worthy of a laugh, but without the Sweet 'n' Sour thing goin' on... they don't work nearly as well.  There's no more, "yeah right, we know how awesome you really are y'old bully"... now it's, "I bet you would."  Sad sad.

Next up... What's with the cheatfest?  Over half the characters on the show cheat now?

And what about Kurt?  Um, why has the lovable Kurt gotten so stereotypically prissy?  His character was better in Season 1.

Lastly, the music...

SERIOUSLY?  Once the Christmas episode was over, the music went down the drain (and it didn't compare to Season 1 to start with!)  What the heck happened?  Showtunes so obsolete (and for good reason) that they're unrecognizable?  And I have to say... I LOVE music.  I love love it, all kinds of it, all genres even, but the music after the Christmas episode was so astoundingly painful to listen to I actually fast forwarded through most of it.  Sad.

COMPLIMENTS:

Some long overdue attention and focus on Santana!  Yes the girl can SING!  Yes she can DANCE!  Yes she's gorgeous!  Yes she's hilarious!  (My personal favorite character!) Santana?  Just YES!  Can't wait to watch her story unfold further!

Got another one (compliment that is)... Coach Beiste!  FANTASTIC new character.  In fact... is that what happened to Sue Sylvester?  Because, it seems like her Season 1 character has been put into the new Season 2 Coach Beiste (again with the pod people thing!)  LOVE her!.. (still lamenting the alien abduction of Sue though.  Sniff.)

CONCLUSION:

I love Glee and will continue to watch it but I was very unhappy with the character mutilations.  The music, as stated above was horrendous as well.  But... it's Glee and when it's good it's so very very good, it's worth the wait to watch it.  Here's hoping Season 3 gets back to the awesome sauce.