This film looked very good from the trailer, but I wish that's all I watched of it. While the movie tries to be supportive of some conservative viewpoints through the main protagonist to look balanced, it comes off as a mostly hard left attack on all things Fox (and as a conservative I really don't see Fox as a conservative vehicle worthy of defense, more of a big Stephen Colbert show to make us conservatives feel like we have a dog in a long lost fight). But with the attacks on Fox News (Bill O'Reilly primarily), the Tea Party, and Fox's American Idol as conservatism's stereotypical symbols you don't also get equal spoofage of the Jon Stewarts or Bill Mahers in the media or violent Occupy Wall Street movement. That stuff could be seen to come off as a little mean too. So I couldn't really embrace director Bobcat's or the inexplicably psychotic Roxy's myopic politics in this movie. I'd like to see how the characters in this film would fare in present day France if they hated America so much. Maybe see how they enjoy dealing with Islam there instead of so-called rude Americans or NASCAR fans.

It only touched on a few situations that most civilized and conscientious people would find annoying or offensive, like the noisy movie-goers and spoiled reality TV star. If that's what liberals think are the world's main problems then we're in trouble. This film could have been much more had it tackled some real issues facing Americans and not what's facing the elite global citizens/slavemasters and their sensibilities or lack thereof. Even if I were a left-leaning viewer I don't see how I could have enjoyed this film all that much. I only give this 2 stars because the lead actor did a good job and his character injected a little balance into a mostly left-leaning script, and for using a good Black Rebel Motorcycle Club song in the soundtrack. Other than that, as far as sheer entertainment value goes this would be a one or two star vigilante film,  for scale I'd consider Super would be about a three, Kick-Ass a four, and Falling Down a five. Safe to skip this one. A confused film at best with the best parts in the trailer already.