This fine film really snuck up on me emotionally, but the superb performances of Jennifer Lopez (Sharon) and Jim Caviezel (Catch) are rich, nuanced, and ultimately captivating.  ANGEL EYES works on so many levels ... suspense, action, drama, and of course, romance.  It intricately and sensitively deals with issues of life and death, loss, betrayal, and redemption.  The ending doesn't tie up everything in a neat little cliched package, either.  But aside from a wonderful script and crisp direction, the key to this film is the chemistry of Lopez and Caviezel, who can communicate so much from a look or a smile or tears.  Particularly intriguing is the character that Caviezel plays, the enigmatic Catch.  Is he dead or alive?  An angel or devil?  Is he psychotic or just deeply wounded?  Somehow, as the viewer sorts it all out, Caviezel plays Mr. Catch as a warm-yet-tragic figure who steals the viewer's hearts just as surely as he touches Lopez's Sharon.  Speaking of Lopez, this is one of her best performances; it's truly one from the heart.  She's gritty, yet vulnerable...tough, but gorgeous.  I'm not really a weepy type, but all I can say is that Sharon's amazing "tribute" to her father near the film's end had me getting embarrasingly misty-eyed. This is certainly a fantastic date movie; it really would not be appropriate for children or younger teens, however, due to some salty language, intense themes, and brief scenes of sensuality.  I am amazed that Caviezel didn't experience a superstar breakout as a leading man after this film, but it is without question a brilliant and heart-rending performance.  Comparing his work here to what he has accomplished in other films, including his landmark portrayal in THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST, one sees his incredible versatility and range as an actor. ANGEL EYES is, in some ways, a collection of many small, intimate vignettes, that are woven together in a beautiful narrative tapestry.  While this film may not have burned up the box office in 2001, it's definitely a great way to spend an evening with someone you love.