I've never read the Ghost in the Shell comic series, but I love this show. Everything about it is top-notch, and at times you'll forget that you're not watching a major motion picture! The animation here is the most beautiful I've seen in a Japanese TV show (or any animated show, for that matter), and it's even better looking than many popular Anime movies! It's a genuinely sucsessful marraige of technology and good-old-fashioned human talent, which is poetic justice considering the show's premise.

The show very wisely follows a "mini-movie" episodic format with story-arch episodes scattered in between, which helps make it fairly accessable without loosing depth. You've probably already read the premise by now, so I won't bother re-capping. While some episodes did leave me scratching my head at times, it's still not too advanced if even just a casual Anime viewer like myself can sit down and enjoy it. It's a pretty good balance between depth and accessability, but it definately leans more towards depth. The important characters all get a good share of developement as well, which will certainly keep faithful viewers happy, and interested in more than just the next plot twist.

One piece of advice though: if you are interested in this show, stay AWAY from the 1996 Ghost in the Shell movie. I rented it after seeing dozens of over-bloated praises for it, and so I'll say this right here: whatever good you can find in the movie, the show does 10x better, and the rest is just headache-inducing crap. Plus the movie and show are not connected, so don't bother if you're thinking it will enhance your viewing expirience. I know I will get some hate for saying this, but it must be said.

My only true gripe with this show is that there is not an affordable or convinient way to own it. I would most certainly love to add it to my collection, but for a tally of roughly $150 per season, I am stuck living without. Hopefully we'll get a more reasonable deal later down the road, and maybe even a Blu-Ray disc set from the original high-definition master copies. For now though, my only option is watching it on Cartoon Network every week.