I must confess to being a bit disappointed at this film. I have read several books on the Hanssen case (David Wise, David A. Vise) and I expected more on the enormity of Hanssen's treachery. Among the important items not made clear in the film are 1) The tremendous number of Russians working for US intelligence who were "blown" by Hanssen, some of whom were executed; 2) Hanssen's "blowing" of important technical penetrations, like the US tunnel under the new Soviet Embassy in D.C.; 3) The fact that Hanssen, at one time, headed an FBI/interagency group searching for a mole, who was --- Hanssen himself; and 4) The means by which the FBI realized Hanssen was the mole - the actual KGB file on Hanssen, purchased from a former KGB officer for about $7 million. Among the items receiving scant attention were 1) Hanssens' wife, Bonnie; 2) Hanssen's favorite stripper, Priscilla Sue Galey; and 3) Hanssen's obsession with Internet sex.

Hanssen's motive is likewise lost in the film: It appears to have been ego. Hanssen simply believed he could be the best mole ever; that he could dictate his own terms of tradecraft to the Soviets, never meeting with them, never revealing his identity, using only the dead drops he specified. The Soviets pushed, but not too hard, preferring to placate his ego, which often emerged in his letters to the KGB. It all would have worked, too, if not for the collapse of the Soviet Union and the KGB.

Chris Cooper, who played Hanssen, is a great actor, but (contary to the opinions of director Billy Ray and former FBI agent Eric O'Neill, who knew Hanssen) I think he was micast in this role. He doesn't look like Hanssen, and he comes off as humorless and imperious, while the real Hanssen was more gregarious and "normal." That was the evil in the dual game Hanssen played: He seemed so normal, that you'd never suspect him.

I also wish more could have been done about the duality of leading the search for a mole who is yourself. That must have been a psychological load for Hanssen to carry, but I see none of it in this film.

But perhaps I ask too much, as a devourer of true spy material. As Bill Ray said, this has to be a story which can appeal to a mass audience. As a film, it is very well done. The script is good, the staging is impressive, some of the edits are phenomenal. And any film with Dennis Haysbert and Laura Linney has to be good.