Think of this as the touring company of the original production, and they just happened to have a camera on-hand.  Elizabeth Taylor catches some of the outlines of Uta Hagen's original performance, but only crudely, and without the sense of a desperate, vulnerable creature beneath all of the crude bluster.  And just gaining weight and donning a fright wig do not a performance make.  As George, Richard Burton bring a more serious talent to bear on the character, but he seems to share playwright Edward Albee's illusion that George is a sensitive, superior creature telling necessary truths, instead of a vicious weakling who strikes at other's vulnerabilities as a way to stifle his feelings of self-loathing and failure.  As Nick, a smart fellow who may actually has something of value beneath his empty charm and predatory nature, George Segal is pleasant but suggests none of the intellect that would make him a college professor or the coldness that would make him the user that the script insists he is.  Worst of all is Sandy Dennis as Honey.  Melinda Dillon's peformance in the original Brodaway production was a small miracle, as a woman of substance emerges from beneath a soft and giggly exterior.  Dennis just plays the surface, and plays it badly; shrieking and blubbering and generally getting on your nerves.  You would never know from this performance that she was in fact a charming and gifted actress in films far less competent than this one.

The competence was guaranteed by Mike Nichols, who had made a name for himself as both a performer of original comedy with Elaine May and as a skillful director of other's comedies, from an off-Broadway production of THE KNACK (where he first worked with George Segal, who played the lady-killer Tolan) to the early plays of Neil Simon.  His directorial debut shows that he had a good grasp of cinematic technique and vocabulary, but also that he had a tendency to use it glibly; the film is full of visual echoes of more serious directors, but recycled as shock tactics and quick grabs for stylishness.  This glibness infects Haskell Wexler's photography, which goes for pockmarks on actor's faces and flashy lighting effects.  The script, by Ernest Lehman, is mostly a matter of rearranging a few scenes to allow for exteriors and blue-pencilling a few of the rawer profanities in the Edward Albee original.  What's lacking is the sense in the original that something profound is happening before our eyes--that sense may have been illusory, but as the original-cast recording on Caedmon Records (now out of print, alas) makes clear, the right production was full of it.  This smooth, compromised film never achieves a whisper of it