A cute, easily forgetable Hollywood movie's worst nightmare:

A well-acted, mature, non-violent, non-sexual delight that runs over two hours and appeals to (gasp) the over forty age bracket.

Many critics slammed this film, citing flawed directing, one-dimensional characters, and an improbably storyline. The fact is, the directing is superb, the acting is flawless, and the storyline isn't meant to be completely believable.

Though this movie failed to even exceed its budget in America, it went on to gross over $200 million overseas. Why? I guess would be because in the midst of brainless comic book action flicks and overacted sex dramas, a movie with actual heart failed to be noticed, even with Speilburg and Hanks collaberating. The first thing about this movie that struck me was the set. Speilburg had a complete fake airport terminal built in California in an old hangar. Pretty much all of the movie is filmed in the hangar, and when I first saw it I was convinced that it was filmed in an actual airport (get the special edition to see the *making of* featurette). There are subtle changes in the lighting of the set as the film goes on (i.e. cool tones progressing towards warming colors) that add to the experience even if you don't consciously notice them. Hundreds of extras inhabit the airport in almost each scene, and CG-ed planes seem to be taking off all around. Part of the reason this film was so convincing was because of the magnificent set.

Still, set aside, the acting in "The Terminal" can only be described as superb. Many critics claimed that Hank's accent as a visitor from the ficitonal county of Krakozhia was silly and childish. In fact it was Bulgarian the Hanks spoke, and a voice training coach was on the set all of the time. This adds to the authenticity, also, but the real mastery here is watching Hank's emotions as he realizes his predicament. His adapting may be funny superficially, but beneath the surface it is tragic that a person must be forced to accept living in an airport. Hanks showcases his talent with the bittersweet acceptance he gradually obtains.

The supporting cast add much color to the film. Catherine Zeta-Jones is nice as the unlucky-in-love flight attendant, but seems to be on the realm of one-dimensionalness. Thankfully, her role is fairly small. Stanly Tucci's role is larger as head of the airport and "villian." Tucci does a terrific job dragging the character out of the 1-D ditch that the writers dragged him into. The rest of the cast in wonderfully odd. The most entertaining minor character must be Gupta, the convict/janitor. He steals nearly every scene he's in.

While many people won't understand the ending of this film, I think it is sad but necessary. After all, this is not a love story, but the story of a man trapped in a microcosm of society. Hopefully that won't give away too much, but I would definitely say it was more heavy on the bitter than the sweet.

All in all, a wonderful movie that rewards all who watch it. Buy the special edition for a bunch of good featurettes; it's not much more expensive than the regular edition.