I don't want to repeat too much of what others may have said about this movie - considering there are over 80 reviews posted at the time of this writing. (87 to be exact)
This was an unlicensed movie version of the novel "Dracula." Names were changed in an attempt to hide that fact that the movie was being illegally made. Somehow the movie survived even though there had been a court order to destroy the prints. Some video editions will have the original names, others may have the characters matched up to their names in the novel. For example, "Dracula" instead of "Orlok" or "Harker" instead of "Hutter." This DVD uses the original names. 
I have the Video Yesteryear videotape edition, Arrow Video videotape edition (with music by Type O Negative), the LaserDisc by Image/Blackhawk Films, and now the DVD by Image/Blackhawk Films. I find it interesting that each version has a different version of the onscreen titles. The LaserDisc edition might be the only one that appeared to have original titles. All of the others had re-created the titles for that edition except for titles that involved handwritten notes. This DVD is different - all titles were redone. Plus, it seems to use a different translation. Some of the titles appear to be more wordy on the DVD than some other editions. 
There is a different style for each type of title - speech, narration, and handwritten stuff. The speech titles follow the more traditional silent film title format with large text, but they don't use a basic font. It's not the best choice, but it's not too bad. Handwritten notes use a simple font that look like handwriting, but not too fancy. It looks like basic letters. I hate the narration titles - overly fancy letters with loops all over the place. It looks more like a handwritten title, but it is the narration. All of the titles were created with a character generator (electronic device used to add titles to video) with simulated scratches added in to make the titles fit in. 
Overall the quality of the film itself is very good. You do have the option of two different musical tracks - new age or organ. I personally don't like the new age music, and it doesn't seem to fit what's happening onscreen. The same could be said for the organ score, but I feel the organ fits it better. (It may not be new age, but to me it seems like it is.) I felt my Video Yesteryear tape had the best music, and later I found out it was simply Vivaldi's Four Seasons - but it actually fit fairly well. Because of differences in frame rates and possible differences in the prints the companies had access to plus the composition may not have been played in proper order, simply playing a CD of Vivaldi may not match as well. Some parts may have also been repeated. "Summer - Presto" was used for the coach ride to the castle on that videotape. I wish this DVD had some classical style music written for it. 
You can also listen to a somewhat boring expert on the other audio track. The expert sounds as if it's reading his words and tends to speak in a monotone. He is the same person who speaks during some of the bonus material. 
The extras on this DVD are very nice. Although I don't care for the voice, there is much information here about each of the exteriors used during the filming - what they were then and how they look now. There is also some information about some of the techniques used in the filming of this movie. 
The DVD menus are nicely done - a little Orlok head is used as the selection pointer. When you go to the extras menu, you see a part of the movie where a door opens, and the menu options fly through the doorway before becoming an active menu onscreen.