Critics say it isn't "realistic". Umm, it's a drama (i.e reality with a flair).  Hence, the derivative - "dramatic". If you want realism, visit the family law department at your neighborhood courthouse. Notwithstanding the drama, the legal process was substantially realistic to the extent it touched on the various phases. The plot was tightly drawn. Delivery was compelling and very entertaining. Excellent acting from ALL actors, brilliant scriptwork (especially good for Penn's role), gelled in a near PERFECT blend of production, camera,video work and music (for those '60 and '70 era kids, and to all the knowing and appreciative, the Beatles theme and on-spot songs gave this film sanctimonious flight. ALL the actors were at or close to the top of their game. A fluid, albeit slightly lengthy, masterpiece of acting and production. Sean Penn as Sam, a mentally handicapped single father, struggles with the system over legal issues pursuant to his capacity to properly raise his young daughter. The excruciating degree of physical and mental demands inherent in the successful execution of this role of Sam, as played so near-perfectly by Penn, cannot be overstated. Penn's acting in this role further substantiates his genius for consistent excellent acting and glues him toe to toe with Cruise and Hanks. Penn is to be lauded for a remarkable acheivement in bringing Sam to optimal life. Michelle Pfieffer was exciting, perpetually combustible and really fun to watch. Dakota Fanning was brilliant. ALL the actors, including the second and third support tiers, had relative depth of character calibrated and cured to perfection. Somewhere in the background there is a wonderful stage - prop -  crew at the helm - superb professionals who know their stuff. All flaws remain strictly subjective, have mostly to do with an occasional illogical snafu (such as the supposedly 'perfectly responsible foster parents' permitting Lucy the wherewithall to sneak out of the house (again?) after she's caught wandering the streets to her father's house, and upon discovering this unnverving fact the parents display insufficient shock. Other minor quirks were to be found such as slight disruptions in the intellectual continuity of Penn's charcter revealed by some illogical upshifts in intellectual overage, such as Penn's eyes are too normal, calm and intelligent (noticeably out of character) when Pffifer breaks the door down in a huff and finds him serene behind his cutouts (breaking the door down should have triggered a little rapid eye movement) and a few more spurts of slight intellectual overage is mainly due to script and Penn reverting back to himself mid-scene for several quick but noticeable seconds.  Also it could be argued that Lucy's maturity in later scenes pushed slightly ahead of her years, unless she was endowed with abnormally superior intellect which could have very well been the case.  As such, these are all trifling criticisms and they make little stew for studious topic. This is an intense emotional feel good movie, not a dusty documentary - lovingly steeped in a rich movie flair.