The other reviewers have mentioned why this is a quality production, so there is no point in repeating what they have already said.  A year ago, I was able to hear Hew Strachan, the historical consultant, give a talk about the making of the series (it would have been nice to have that talk filmed and included as a special feature, but I guess no one thought of that).  He noted the labor that went into locating accurate images for the scenes being described: if you are looking at the 1914 German offensive into France, you'll see soldiers in 1914 uniforms, not substitutions from later battles.  Equally interesting was the care taken to maintain a balance between historical accuracy and dramatic effect.  It was decided deliberately not to include interviews with historians, as in many historical documentaries nowadays, in order not to interrupt the flow of the narrative.  There are some beautiful color sequences of what the landscapes look like today, from the Marne to Przemysl, and even some rare color photos from the period.

  Of course, some of the interpretations are judgement calls.  I personally think the Germans get off rather easily in the discussion of war origins (the famous "blank check" is interpreted in the traditional sense as more of an accident than the Fritz Fischer view of a deliberate provocation for war).  But this is more than made up in coverage of German, Austrian, and Turkish atrocities (though there is some mention of what the Russians did in East Prussia in 1914 and how they treated Jewish populations in general in Eastern Europe).  If you're using the series in school classes, coverage of these issues makes excellent starting points for further discussion.

  Finally, a note on the packaging.  The four DVDs come in a handsome box with maps of the major areas of conflict.  There is also a 32-page pamphlet of Viewing Notes.  Since the overall packaging is so good, some minor oversights are a bit surprising.  First, while the contents of each DVD are spelled out on the box and in the pamphlet, they are not actually printed on the DVDs themselves.  All you get are the disk numbers.  So, if you're a teacher and use them a lot and the box wears out, you might have some trouble remembering which program is on which disk.  Navigation is also a bit more difficult than it needs to be.  Each program is broken into four segments, but there is no selection item on any of the main menus on the disk for scene selection.  To get to the scene menu pages, you have to either have a remote that distinguishes between main and root menus, or else you start the episode you want to watch and then select the menu option on the remote to get the page with the scene choices.

  Overall, The First World War is a bargain for the price.  It is serious about showing what the war was really like, and in keeping Hollywood to a minimum.