This is a story of 2 men who come together from completely different backgrounds, where they meet in San Francisco - a city where anything's possible. Goodspeed, played by the ever lovable Nicholas Cage, is a doctor who knows a lot about chemicals - he's always talking about those chemicals, it's just his *thing*. His girlfriend is pregnant - and at the beginning of the film they plan to marry - but unforeseen circumstances bring him to the West Coast. Mason on the other hand, played by a stern and tough Sean Connery, is an old rugged man who is locked in his room reading books and philosophizing about life. "In another life," Mason admits in one scene, "I wish I were a poet or a farmer."

Against all likelihood, the men are united on a mission "to save a city", as one character puts it. After a number of transforming events, Goodspeed's intellectual prowess and his knowledge about chemicals uniquely compliments Mason's rougher edges. And despite Mason's shortcommings, he's very good at acting on instinct, a quality that Goodspeed lacks. It's an unlikely couple to say the least, but the 2 actors definitely have great chemistry.

They first meet in the streets of San Francisco in a dazzling scene that can only be described as riveting and heart-pounding. They roam through those streets as if they owned the city, and in their own particularly ways, they seem to wreak havoc wherever they go.

The plot begins to pick up when Goodspeed's job eventually takes him to a remote relatively isolated island off of the city's coast, where he is asked scour the island for those chemicals that he knows so much about, which are being used by some macho guys in their big rockets that they're flaunting at everyone. Despite being hesitant at first, Mason eventually decides to join Goodspeed on the island, where the two experience mishaps and mayhem wherever they go. Sparks and explosions light up as Goodspeed and Mason find out that they're not so different afterall. All the while, through a number of plot developments and twists, their excursions take them through underground hidden passageways and abandoned buildings and lighthouses, even SCUBA diving underwater - all in search of those chemicals that Goodspeed is so determined to find.

The screen lights up as they cross paths with other characters who have also situated themselves on the island - these include tourists, generals, and even a group of specially trained Marines.

There's a bittersweet happiness at the end, when the two characters must part. Mason needs to return to his life of annomity back in SF Bay where he also has an estranged daughter, while Goodspeed reunites with his fiance. Although nonetheless the guys have experienced intense life-changing events that will likely forever change their lives. Heart-thomping action, betrayal, loyalty, deceit, poetry, disguise, lots of action and lots of male-bonding, somehow they've all made it into this rather energetic film.