I am in AWE at how this crummy 'knock-off' received 3 stars (or MORE-GAAAAAKKKK!!!) from most of these reviewers. Wow-the cinema world is in BIG trouble, as I'm guessing alot of people out there don't know their cheeks from their buttocks when it comes to a GOOD horror flick nowadays. Stay AWAY from this BAD zombie film if you know what a GREAT undead cannibal flick is like. Stay FAR away. When a film company simply exists to churn out crappy low-budget films for the sole reason of PROFIT rather than the LOVE of celluloid, people who TRULY love cinema should beware. This is 'The Asylum'. You might say Roger Corman did this very same thing for many years with New World Pictures...but there was a HUGE difference. Corman always put new screenwriters, directors and actors who had passion and TALENT into his productions. Not so with Producer David Michael Latt. Mr. Corman actually introduced us to quite a few up-and-comers who DID make a name for themselves such as Jack Nicholson, Peter Fonda, William Shatner (in 'The Intruder'), Coppola, Scorsese, James Cameron--and the list goes on. New World films had heart, soul, and were filled with genuine B-movie goodness. I Highly doubt The Asylum will produce any Coppola's or Cameron's in the near or distant future.

Okay-anyone who is unfamiliar with the horror film company 'The Asylum' has either been living in a cave somewhere, or they are extremely lucky. The Asylum is a cash cow hack horror company that mostly churns out cheapo low-budget rip-off's of big studio productions at a fraction of the cost-and it shows. Oh BOY does it show. The company has been around quite awhile now-over a decade perhaps-but I may be wrong about that. 95% of the flix they produce are so bad, I can't even get through them. There are only 2 I enjoy-one was 'King Of The Ants' (which-SURPRISE, was only released by 'The Asylum'-not produced by them--Stuart Gordon directed, and Charles Higson wrote the screenplay), and the second is 'The Beast Of Bray Road'-which is by no means a classic or anything, but it does have something about it I enjoy. Maybe it's the fact that is VERY loosely based on true events (of a wolf-like cryptid), or the fact that it doesn't take itself too seriously. Also-it does NOT use cheapo CGI FX-a trend The Asylum has been relying way too heavily on the past few years. Just check out the awful CGI video game monsters their 'Sinbad' knock-off--UGGGHHH! Let's face it horror fanatics--CGI gore SUCKS. Period. If you don't have 10 million bucks to spend on CGI gore alone-do them the OLD-FASHIONED way!!! Inferior low-budget CGI is laughable at best--and it certainly shows in 'Abe Lincoln vs. Zombies'-as it does in ALL of 'The Asylum' films.
And WOW-what an original (not) concept! As if we don't have enough BAD zombie films as of late...zombies are 'in' now-thanks mostly to the main stream exposure provided by 'The Walking Dead' (a great show I might add). I LOVE this genre-but HATE it at the same time thanks to films like AL vs.Z (I'll use this abbreviated title from here on in)-and I mean where the hell were all these 'zombie fanatics' 25 YEARS ago??? First off, the Asylum is famous for taking a big studio film idea and jumping the gun to create an inferior version which goes straight to dvd. And unfortunately, there are enough 'vidiots' out there who are dead from the neck up (Archie Bunker called 'em 'Meatheads') who actually RENT and WATCH this garbage to keep David Michael Latt and Co. 'in the money'...personally, I wish they'd go bankrupt. So if you haven't already heard, the genius filmmaker Tim Burton (Batman, Batman Returns, The Nightmare Before Christmas, Edward Scissorhands, Beetlejuice, The Corpse Bride) has a FAR superior new film out called Abe Lincoln: Vampire Hunter ('Abe Lincoln vs. Vampires'-get it?)...so I guess you can see where this is going. The soul-suckers at The Asylum had a brainstorm one day while counting the cash they fleeced from Redbox customers, Netflix, Amazon on-demand, (and the poor, poor slobs who actually plop down their hard-earned cash at Wal-Mart when they see those nifty 'Asylum' dvd and now even BLU-RAY covers--GAAAAKKKK!) decided to rip Mr. Burton's film off. They've done this in the past with Peter Jackson's Kong remake (Asylum's 'King of the Lost World'), and more recently the 'Clash of the Titans' films. Always to TERRIBLE results. Think Sci-Fi Channel originals-but WORSE! The first thing you'll notice when watching AL vs. Z is the very slick camera work. The opening scene in which a young Abe finds his dad upstairs wounded by a chained up zombie wife he was unable to kill (how many times have we seen THIS in a zombie flick?) is actually decent. And again-the production values have improved in The Asylum's newer efforts (if they put much effort into any of them that is). But high-def digital cameras and decent cinematography can NOT help once the acting/killing begins. The fellow who plays Abe is actually not bad. But his wife (?) in the beginning whom he calls 'Mother' is SO bad-did she actually READ for the director? And she must have fell out of the ugly tree and hit EVERY branch on the way down to boot. This makes it VERY hard to believe later in the film that Abe had previously hooked up with a young hottie prior to this old maid...WTF were they thinking??? If he's capable of getting some smokin' tail like that-what's he doing with 'Aunt B.'??? Anyway, I'm getting side tracked. Let's get to the heart of the problems with AL vs. Z--the gore FX. Like I mentioned earlier-CGI gore is AWFUL. Especially when it looks like an Xbox 360 video game. Which this does. Fake-ass gore squirts in unrealistic fountains, heads fly off at odd angles, zombies stand COMPLETELY still while our hero's swing swords, scythes, and axes decapitating them all (TOO easily I might add). CGI has become a CHEAPO way to get films like this made FAST-thanks in part to all these computer FX dudes out there trying to make a name for themselves in hopes of scoring a better job with Dreamworks or ILM. Ain't happening fellas. I'll take a film with air bladders, latex prosthetics, foam appliances, tubes, and karo syrup and food coloring blood over this tripe any day of the week. I'm all for old-school on screen FX. CGI always looks like CGI-period. Even poor George Romero has fallen victim to this 'easy way out' in his last 3 films. At least in 'Land Of The Dead' it was ALMOST realistic. You could easily tell what was what. But in AL vs. Z. the final result is laughable. Oh-and the fake moustaches and beards are hysterical! Straight out of Party City! Check out Col. Stonewall Jackson for instance! LMAO! Add in only a couple of decent actors and a mostly (bad) novice supporting cast and you have a film that isn't deliberately cheezy (those films I LOVE)-but one that takes itself TOO seriously, and as a result it comes off much WORSE. It has a really bad script, and is just...well, AWFUL. My recommendation? If you MUST-watch this stinking pile of zombie poop on Netflix instead of wasting a buck at Redbox-or WORSE buying it on Amazon. Watch 'Dawn of the Dead', (either version), Fulci's 'Zombi', 28 Days/Weeks Later, Burial Ground, or 'Day of the Dead' (either version) again if you must have your undead cannibal fix. And another tidbit of wisdom coming from a horror fanatic-avoid 'The Asylum' film company as if it were a flesh-eating zombie itself! I gave this movie 1 star based simply on Abe's performance, the camera work, and better than usual production values (for The Asylum that is). The rest is Ka-KAAAAA!!!