An A+ recommendation for families to watch together

I'm glad to have been proven wrong. I came to this movie, thinking it was going to be just old-fashion syrupy goodness ...  idealized emotionalism. I rented this movie for my mom (to surprise her; as I knew she likes this genre - drama -and society), and have never seen her laugh so much at a movie. This movie was a good bonding experience for me and my parents.

This movie is about Anne, a red-haired girl who is orphaned at an early age and faces life's situations with a maturity and also innocence to admire, really. In this movie, I learned a lot about social interactions, character maturity, the beauty of wit, and the social/psychological differences between women and men. The beautiful, down-to-earth, and somehow sublimely wicked character of Anne has been a *therapeutic session* for me. Meditatively, I had sympathized with various emotions, thoughts, schemes from my own childhood, some of them which comprise the brokenness that I carry in this world's life, my brokenness as an imperfect child of God.

The movie, has spectacular cinematography, historical era-clothes, language (lingo sometimes archaic), and culture (I guess 19th century Canada; Victorian era). An A+ recommendation for families to watch together.

For me, a young 30s old male Christ-ian, this movie had been therapeutic (even contemplative or meditative) because of all the prejudices, biases, subjective thought-process, and baggage, that I carry as a human being.  Now I feel lighter, wiser, and will-not-always-take-life-so-seriously. I've enjoyed *observing* not only the character development of Anne but also my parents reactions to Anne's behavior. For my dad and mom, they enjoyed and laughed at all the social gaffe, innocent improprieties, Victorian hypocrisies, and the words & life-actions of a little girl who turns adolescent and changes people's lives around her - Anne of Green Gables.

I look forward to the day when I will watch this movie with my future kids.  A super movie (A+) for couples and families.