Hello, I'm Rebecca Bennett, and I'm an AVID fan of Meg Cabot's books. The movies do not follow the books in absolutely any way, other than the names of the characters, but does it really matter? These movies aren't intended to follow the books exactly, and are BASED on them, not exact reproductions. And I loved the character of Michael too, but if he didn't agree to appear in the second movie, then respect that, and please please please get over it.

I'd like to thank Garry Marshall and his team for giving me this fabulous movie to obsess over, just like I did the first one. The special features on the DVD made my entire life, and I loved the bloopers so very much, and the deleted scenes of course, especially with Garry's introductions! I absolutely adored Garry and Julie's commentary on the DVD. The flowers were splendid, Ms Andrews!

Anne Hathaway was once again fabulous as Mia, bringing back to the sequel her charm and her quirky personality. Chris Pine did a wonderful job as Nicholas Devereux, and seemed a lovely person behind the scenes as well. I was very glad to see Paulo reprise his role, and adored his moose line. "But a very cute moose. Make all the boy mooses go 'Mooor'"

Julie Andrews was charming as usual, and elegant, not to mention radiant as Queen Clarisse, my favourite character by far, not to mention one of my favourite actresses. I got very teary when she sang, and Raven was nice too, although I'd have prefered to hear Julie on her own, but hearing her sing at all again is a dream come true. Hector Elizondo was phenomenal as Joe, everyones favourite head of security, and the romance between Queen Clarisse and him, as hinted at it the first movie, was delightful. The ending was the most wonderful wonderful ending, and I applaud the script-writers for that particular twist. Thank you Disney, Garry, Julie, Anne and anyone who worked on this movie and the first, and thank you Meg Cabot for creating 'The Princes Diaries.'

P.S. I desperately want every single outfit Julie wore in both movies. The costuming was fabulous. Congratulations to all those involved in that department!