the previous reviewers have mostly said all there was to be said about this
great film and i do agree with most of them. the movie doesnt let go all throughout
and i was glued to my seat reveling in the awesome acting of the entire cast, starting with the always great danny de vito, christopher lloyd (the actor who'd give us some of the looniest performances in Back to the Future and Who framed roger Rabbit), up to the otherworldly showdown between nicholson and the glacial
almost satanic louise fletcher, with her hair aptly combed to vaguely resemble
curved horns.
you forget that mc murphy (nicholson) is a petty criminal who's avoiding hard labor in some prison, when you see him injecting life back into the heavily sedated ward patients. thanks to mc murphy, those patients whose brains were wrecked with powerful drugs and were never meant to be cured, get back to appreciating life, playing ball, fishing and having an identity. a truly memorable part is when nicholson tells a card playing inmate to wait his turn: 'you see these people here? they are all REAL people'
and again during the fishing trip, he assigns to them specific jobs by telling them jockingly that 'now you're an expert sailor, not a loonie'.
little by little, those patients start having back a taste of life, and one starts to question the means employed by mental institutions: there are many alternatives
to brain melting drugs to mental cases and these alternatives include the very basic
forms of entertainment, play, friendship and giving purpose back to the treated person.
for me the whole movie culminates into one of the last scenes where nurse ratched
busts the stuttering bibbit with candy: bibbit's stutter is gone during the night he spent with candy and he was again a normal person, with confidence. he was cured, by a very simple 'method', yet the nurse proceeds to destroy his newly found confidence by clubbing him with guilt. mc murphy is horrified at the true evil on display, as he sees the man he helped shed his stutter and lack of confidence, dismantled back into wimpdom. i found myself cheering for him when he leaped at nurse ratched's throat.
the concepts displayed in this movie are timeless ones (leadership, play&humor,
conformity, individualism) and are played to perfection by a stellar cast. the result is
a film that defies age and a permanent reference in hollywood's golden era cinema
and moviemaking in short.