MTV Films is responsible for such timeless classics as "Jackass: The Movie" and "Joe's Apartment." Marvelous, marvelous filmmaking. Who hasn't wanted to see a grown man deliver an electric shock to his testicles on the big screen or a film about talking roaches? Now, imagine my surprise when I found out that MTV had associated its corporate hipness with Justin Lin's "Better Luck Tomorrow," a touching coming-of-age story involving Asian-American students. Since when did Music Television, supporters of N'Stink and Mandy Boar, bring to mind serious filmmaking?  ("Election" doesn't count because I loathe Matthew Broderick).

  Remember when I said that "Better Luck Tomorrow" was touching? I was being sarcastic. Some of the violence in this flick actually shook me from my constant state of desensitization for a couple of milliseconds. The film starts off with a shock, then flashes back a couple of months to when four Asian-American high school students are nothing more than ambitious overachievers. It then gradually reveals their rise to power within the school community. Thier growing cockiness and risky behavior inevitably lead to their sad, though much deserved, downfall. All of this is seen through the eyes of Ben (Parry Shen) who, with the help of his sexually frustrated friend Virgil (Jason Tobin), sociopath Daric (Roger Fan), and Virgil's cousin Han (Sung Kang), goes from being a by-the-books honor student to a petty criminal and drug abuser. The corruption and academic decathlons are intertwined with a love story between Ben and his lab partner Stephanie (Karin Anna Cheung) who may or may not be a porn star. These scenes are quiet and slow when compared to the rest of the movie but necessary for the subtle irony that is revealed at the film's end.

  Did I mention that Jerry Mathers is in this movie? That's right! The original Beaver, as in "Leave It to Beaver"! Man, talk about the best cameo ever! I think this film will revive his career the way "Pulp Fiction" saved Travolta. Hollywood, give this man a call.

  Justin Lin, who directed, co-produced and co-wrote the movie, used ten credit cards and his own savings to finance this film. That shows a good film can still be made for under a trillion dollars and not need computer effects in place of real actors (George Lucas take note). While Lin's direction is effective for the most part, he has a habit of using annoying camera tricks that have become the trademark of directors like McG or Michael Bay. Quick cuts and swirling camera movements may have been cool when I was a teenager, but I have now come to believe they are leading contributors to attention deficit disorder.

  The movie is good, but it has its faults. Obvious ones. A writing instructor of mine once said that there should be authenticity to ethnic characters in any story or else there's no point in making them ethnic in the first place. The following is an example of my CSUN education taking effect. About halfway through "Better Luck Tomorrow" I thought to myself, "Why do these characters need to be Asian?" Is it because the filmmaker was Asian? Is it because being Asian is cool? Is it because affirmative action has snuck its way into independent filmmaking? If these aren't the reasons, then why? There's no hint of Asian culture to be found anywhere in this film. The main characters are so Americanized that they could have been replaced by the cast of "Dawson's Creek" and nobody would have noticed. Having expected something more culturally authentic, this little nuance led to some disappointment. What the film lacks in culture it makes up for with stereotypes. Asians are good at math and this film isn't afraid to show it. But don't expect any kung fu.

  Another problem is the casting. The actors are surprisingly believable and show a wide range of emotions. Unfortunately, only half of them are passable as high school students. The others look like they belong in a college frat. Casting adults as teenagers has always bothered me so needless to say it distracted me throughout the entire film.

  Reminiscent of works by Quentin Tarantino and Guy Ritchie, "Better Luck Tomorrow" is a "fall from grace" story laced with the violence and attitude we've come to expect from modern films. Though its flaws show through, it's still a striking film that will lead to greater things for Justin Lin.

Grade:  B or 4 out of 5 stars