Before my review of this film, let me begin by saying that I'm 33 years old and have never been very politically active. I've never felt a strong allegiance to either of the major political parties. Both parties have their strengths and weaknesses. Because this year's election holds so much at stake, I felt it necessary to digest as much information as I could, from both major campaigns and for the first time, vote.

Going Upriver is a truly moving documentary. It reminds us of how pointless war destroys both  human life and spirit. The film helped me to develop a new appreciation for our veterans and the price they paid to serve our country.

Going Upriver gives real insight into John Kerry's character and helped me to understand the backbone of his political convictions. Through archival footage, it shows how a young, active college student and natural leader loved his country, believed it's government enough to join the armed services and fought for what he'd been led by them to believe was the right thing to do. John demonstrates his honor in battle, but also sees the ugly side of injustice. After realizing that he'd been mislead by his government to fight in a war which achieved so little at the cost of the lives of so many, the film shows how John Kerry stood up for the good of his fellow veterans and for those who were still stuck in the hell of a pointless war.

To me, the most compelling part of the film was the archival footage of our troops in battle and veterans back at home. It was gut-wrenching to watch the veterans dedicate the tossing away of their war medals in tears and anguish during an emotional ceremony at the nation's capital. It was at the same time very beautiful to see them completely reject the lies told by their commander-in-chief to the degree of throwing away what was for many, all they had to show for their years of service.

After viewing Going Upriver, I feel that I have a MUCH greater understanding of John Kerry's political and strategic tactics. I know that he has exactly what it takes to lead a country in a time or war. He's been through hell and spent a much longer period of time than his political opponent working for the good of the country and his fellow man. He knows what it feels like to be under fire in combat behind enemy lines. After viewing the film and seeing what he's been through, John Kerry's words have taken on a deeper meaning to me. I've never trusted politicians much, as they make great promises only to break them after getting elected. But John Kerry has lived the same convictions that he talks about today for over 30 years. He can back up what he says with his past actions.

Even if you're not politically active, see this film! It delivers a powerful message with regard to what our veterans have gone through for this country.

On a final note, although not completely identical, the similarities between the government's portrayal of and actions regarding the war in Vietnam and the current war in Iraq are frightening...