Okay, so if you don't like Jack Ass style humor, you won't like Jack Ass The Movie. Don't blame the youth of today, or the degradation of entertainment or society. That's missing the point here. 
I can testify to this. I'm a college student, 24 years old, already have a full time job, and I'm going to graduate with honors in June. Intelligence has nothing to do with liking this kind of humor. Larry, Curly, and Moe were once considered renegade comedians because they were what we now call slap stick. How intelligent were there skits? Did they convey some quality truth and meaning? I didn't think so. 
Jack Ass is something to accept at face value. It's impromptu reality comedy at it's finest and possibly most outrageous(although I've seen worse). If you enjoy seeing outrageous people perform outrageous comedic stunts, Jack Ass the movie is for you. Unlike their shows, they actually had a nice budget to play with. Which leads to some incredible scenes. I don't normally watch the show often, but the movie was the funniest two hours of comedy I've ever seen.
There are some scenes that are pretty gross and can offend some people. If you are squeemish about taboo subjects and scenes or honestly don't find any value in neo-slap stick humor, stay away. They are many scenes involving taboo subjects such as human excrement, urination, massochism, and sadism. If you've seen Jack Ass before, you know what I'm talking about. Difference is, this is uncensored. Clearly, this movie isn't for the timid. I think the fact that Jack Ass The Movie dwelled so much on these scenes is the reason I docked it a star. It really distracts from the funnier impromptu stunts that really shows off their creativity. 
As a side note to the naysayers, don't criticize the people who like this style of comedy. I respect your decision to be a stick in the mud and you should respect other people's appreciation of this nutty humor. I'm sure Jack Ass bothers you the same way all the Reds fans bother me here in Cincinnati since I'm an Indian's fan and originally from Cleveland. I don't call these fans dumb or uncultured. It's a tough neighborhood to be in though isn't it? It's a matter of personal taste, not intelligence. You can write negative reviews of the people who like this movie till you're fingers bleed, it won't change anyone's sense of humor.