Essentially a remake of their 1931 smash DRACULA, THE MUMMY is in many ways a more somber, dream-like interpretation of the previous film's themes of undeath, seduction of innocence, and a terror from beyond the ages.  Boris Karloff--not long after his breakthrough role as the more famous Frankenstein's Monster--steps in for Lugosi and plays the eponymous mummy, a cursed Egyptian high priest whose forbidden love for a vestal virgin 3,700 years ago resulted in him being entombed alive.  When a British archaeological team inadverdently revives him, Im-Ho-Tep walks the shifting sands once more.  A few years later, the mummy encounters an unsuspencting young woman named Helen Grosvenor (played by the exotically gorgeous Zita Johann) whom he recognizes as his long-lost love from ages past.  Determined to reclaim his reincarned lover no matter the cost, the ruthless mummy calls upon the powers of darkness in a battle of wits with Helen's doctor (Edward Van Sloan) and her new lover, Frank (David Manners) for the fate of her very soul.

A waking nightmare, THE MUMMY has a phantasmic quality about it that makes it almost possible to believe that the rolling desert sands are indeed haunted by lost gods and walking dead men and that mortals venture out into their cursed territory at great risk to life and sanity.  Karl Freund's direction is tight and sure, and if the story is highly derivative of DRACULA it is in some ways an improvement.  To be sure, the Universal DRACULA is in a class by itself, but THE MUMMY is the more serious of the two and never drags the way its predecessor tends to in certain spots.  The cast is excellent, with Edward Van Sloan essentially playing Van Helsing to Karloff's version of Dracula all over again.  David Manners is, as in DRACULA, the damsel's boyfriend forced to protect her from an undead monster's unwholesome attentions, but while Manners' role was frequently annoying and a bit overdone in DRACULA, it is here more measured and realistic.  Johann possesses a dark, enchanting loveliness that fits her role perfectly, and her performance as the benighted victim of Im-Ho-Tep is empathetic and believable.  And Karloff himself is a masterful villain, consumed by evil and yet tormented by a passionate love that drives him to greater and greater feats of wickedness.  His makeup is minimal but evocative, and his glowing eyes peer from a ghastly visage of pure malevolence.

Fans of the 1999 version of THE MUMMY, an excellent film in its own right, may not find the original to be quite what they're looking for.  The action is much more sparse, to say nothing of the special effects, but nonetheless this first of all Mummy films is a true classic of its genre, a bizarre venture into the Unknown that deserves to never be entirely forgotten.