This is such an amazing movie, from the delightful animation to the songs (which are surprisingly good for a children's film). The movie centers on loveable scoundrel Charlie B. Barkin (Burt Reynolds), who is double-crossed and killed by his former business partner Carface (Vic Tayback), leaving behind a booming business and grief-stricken buddy Itchy (Dom Deluise). However, upon entering heaven, Charlie meets a Heavenly Whippet (named Annabelle in the sequel) who shows him the clocks representing the lives of all creatures on Earth, and, following a catchy song, rewinds the watch of his life--which was stopped. Charlie is then sent back to Earth, having been warned that he can never return to heaven, and eventually discovers Carface's secret to huge profit--a captive orphan girl who can talk to animals. With the help of Itchy, Charlie "rescues" aka kidnaps Anne Marie (Judith Barsi) and uses her in the same way as Carface--but keeping her happy by promising to feed the poor with money won in bets. But when Anne Marie discovers that Charlie is a "bad dog" and is using her, she runs away...only to be recaptured by Carface and his thugs. Before this point, she had become sick by falling in water (pneumonia is hinted at). Carface whisks the girl away to an abandoned ship, where Charlie is lured into the trap to save her. After a fight and an appearance by a somewhat creepy alligator, Carface is presumably eaten and therefore out of the way. Anne Marie then falls into the water (which is of course lit on fire by oil falling into it and being ignited) and Charlie has to save her. But his watch (apparently safe) falls from its place and into the water. Charlie, running out of air, struggles but finally makes the selfless decision to save Anne Marie, therefore abandoning his watch. After ensuring Anne Marie is safe, Charlie dives again for his watch--but we see the watch give a few ticks...and stop. Afterwards, we are left to wonder what became of Charlie--until a scene where Anne Marie is sleeping (I won't give away where she's sleeping). A ghostly Charlie enters the room, making sure Anne Marie keeps Itchy, without revealing to the child where he's actually going. We then see the Heavenly Whippet destroy Hell's dragon-like demon. I won't ruin what happens after that--all I'll tell you is that it makes me want to cry every time.

I really loved this movie--enough to watch it six times in two weeks. There aren't quite words to describe how I feel about it--it's that good in my opinion. It's heartwarming and masterful and features an all-star voice cast. I wish I could give this movie twenty stars. However I do not recommend the sequel, the only voice that stays the same is Itchy--Burt Reynolds becomes Charlie Sheen, and the Heavenly Whippet becomes a high-pitched, impatient, controlling drama queen. Plus there's really no plot--all it really does is set up the series. For hardcore fans of the first one, don't ruin your experience.

Rest in peace Dom Deluise and Judith Barsi. :(

I would like to share with everyone that Judith Barsi, the voice of Anne Marie, was shot in the head and killed by her own father before the film was completed and released. Her father then turned the gun on her mother and himself. The beautiful song "Love Survives" during the credits is dedicated to Judith's memory. She was ten years old.