Ernest Becker, in his remarkably beautiful and insightful <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0844669326">The Denial of Death</a>, tells of how our mortality works to transfigure our lives into tales of overcoming -- of transforming ourselves from mortal creatures leading pointless lives into parts of an overarching eternal scheme. It is in this we find meaning. And so our life stories become crafted into heroic narratives.

And so it is in The Verdict, a movie that gets it right in both the large and the small.  As a lawyer by training, I can say with great confidence that very few legal dramas and thrillers have so well and accurately depicted the lawyer's life. It is true in the details and in the broad strokes. Within minutes, The Verdict transports us into a world that not only rings true, but is true.  From there, we focus in on a critical ethical conundrum, as well as the nexus between the symbolic (and heroic) in human nature and the venal practicalities of real life. With a brilliant, nuanced performance from Paul Newman, the central issue in the story gains a luminosity and clarity that will make The Verdict one of those timeless stories that demonstrate the lasting significance of cinema as storytelling.

Some spoilers follow.

Okay, all that being said, Paul Newman plays a lawyer who has lost his moorings. We learn that he began his career as a brilliant, promising law school graduate. Top of his class. Order of the Coif (the law school equivalent of Phi Beta Kappa on steroids). Fancy job at a fancy firm. And then, he sees the sordid underbelly of the law, the venality of his employers, and gets set up for a fall. Either he looks the other way at the criminal behavior of his firm, or he loses his license to practice law and maybe spends years in jail. And so, facing this choice, the idealism of this idealistic young lawyer loses out. He goes along with the cover up and loses his job to boot. His wife leaves him. And then, he begins a rather slow unwind into alcohol, negligence, and meaninglessness. A lost soul, in other words.

The Verdict picks up when Newman's character finds himself at the end of what may be his terminal losing streak.  A new case is referred to him, and it will be the last, it appears. It is, Newman's character later recounts, "the case." It will be the death of him, or his redemption. Unfortunately, that isn't exactly consistent with his duty to the couple that hired him (although they really aren't his clients at all -- he represents a comatose young woman clinging to life as a result of medical malpractice). Suddenly realizing his own redemption is at stake, he rejects a handsome settlement offer without even advising the couple (his ethical obligations required him to tell them), and takes a half-assed stab at going to trial on the case.  As his plan unravels -- including a disappearing witness who was the key to his case -- Newman has no choice but to go forward. To find out what he's really made of.  To face down an insuperable foe and prevail, or die trying.

Capped off with a closing argument that is both incredibly moving and mercifully short (a hallmark of David Mamet's wonderful dialogue), The Verdict's ending may not be what you expect, but it is eminently meaningful, appropriate, and intelligent.

P.S.  In <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005B6JZ">A Few Good Men (Special Edition)</a>, you may note how Tom Cruise likely mimicked Paul Newman's performance in The Verdict. To me, it was uncanny.