I think this is one of the most misunderstood movies I've ever run across.  Even the DVD box description on the version I have states that it is the tale of "one man's journey from cowardice to courage".  And after reading customer reviews that would go on for reams if they were written on paper, it seems that many of the people who have watched this movie understand it little better.

I never viewed Hoffman's character as a coward or a weakling.  Certainly he was a bookish man of academia, unused to the coarse company of country laborers, but I never viewed him as frightened or even really intimidated by any of the gang in the film.  He never had any problem talking to the work crew as subordinates and hired men, especially when finally firing them.  His character was simply that of a very civilized man who did not anger easily or resort to violence for petty or trifling reasons.  He was a serious academic from NYC in Britain on a fellowship grant to study mathematics.  He wanted little else but to be left alone with his work.  His alternately comely and shrewish wife invited most of the trouble that came their way.

I don't believe that he was AFRAID of violence, but that Hoffman's David was a man who did not believe that violence solved things.  It was the flauting of the rule of law in the lynch mob outside his door and their serious lethality that spurred him into action.  It was not the barrage of insults or petty tricks or harrassments.  It was the fact that the simpleton he was harboring in his home would be immediately KILLED if turned over to the boys outside, and moreover the fact that he, his wife, AND the simpleton would be killed should the boys come inside.  Back against the wall, David was not indecisive nor afraid of confrontation or action.

The director, Sam Peckinpah, believed strongly in the element of violence in the natural world.  That it is neither necessarily good nor evil....only present and real and hanging over all of us as human beings even in "civilized" times.  He made violence and the exploration of it main themes in most of his movies, though probably none more obvious and direct as in Straw Dogs.

I believe that his main theme for this movie is that the world is a violent place, and that being prepared to meet violence violently is a necessary rite of passage, for any person male or female.