Plenty of other reviewers have provided concise plot summaries here, so I'll focus on what I liked, and what I didn't like, about this film.
28 Days Later is an interesting hybrid of post-apocalyptic horror thriller and sociological commentary on the human condition.  What's admirable about the film is that it leaves it up to the viewer's discretion to take away from it what one wants.  If a variation of the classic zombie sub-genre is all you crave (I am aware that they're not actually zombies, but that's effectively their function), that's here for you, with little more asked of the viewer.  On that front alone the film succeeds.  Refreshingly, the zombie sub-genre is recast in a more modern and more plausible plot-vehicle - viral research gone awry (horror buffs can further delight here in another classic horror theme: science turning on its creator - see reviews for "Frankenstein").  Gone are the hackneyed means of bringing the zombies into the picture, such as the supernatural or the radiation-getting-into-the-crypt.  Those wanting an exciting combination of the post-apocalyptic, zombie, science-gone-haywire horror film will get it here, no questions asked.
What makes 28 Days Later really stand out, however, is that it offers more than that, without force-feeding its theme to the viewer (exactly how Oliver Stone would NOT have handled it).  How do people behave under stress?  What psychological defenses does one employ to deal with nigh unthinkable devastation?  In the absence of law to circumscribe one's actions, is one's behavior guided more by morality or by what one can get away with?  The film is clearly grappling with these questions, and the viewer can't help but ask himself how he would behave under these circumstances.  The most compelling question asked - and the central question of the film, I think - is whether humanity is self-governed by force or by morality.  And, at the micro level, which of these governs an individual's choices.  Enter "Lord of the Flies."  These are the questions I found myself ruminating on weeks after I saw the film, and what, in my opinion, makes it so enjoyable.
Unfortunately, the flaws of 28 Days Later prevent it from being a great film.  The second half seems to lose focus.  I simply could not accept that people would behave in the manner they do here.  I understand that the attempt was to juxtapose the enraged with the even more monstrous uninfected, but the effort abandoned all attempts at the subtlety that would have made it effective.  Also, why don't the enraged attack each other?  I will gladly accept an answer, but please at least offer one.  Worst of all, the film ends with hope, despite all signs pointing the other way up to that point.  The ending makes me strongly suspect that artistic control was preempted by the studio's desire to satisfy audiences with a "feel good" ending.  A shame....
All things considered, however, 28 Days Later is a provocative, multi-layered thriller with plenty to offer.