What an interesting film this remains, even to this day. I'm happy to see it's been released on DVD. It deserves it. What has always struck me most about this film is how incredibly dark and violent it was for a PG movie geared towards children. The best way to describe this movie and it's lame watered down sequels, is well, think of Batman and it's sequels. You've got the first two Batman movies directed by Tim Burton. Both were very dark and serious movies for what they were based on(a guy flying around the city dressed as a bat), that came across quite well with adults and in turn were a huge a success. Then you have the Hollywoody sequels designed for 8 year old kids, most notably "Batman and Robin"(i'll admit "batman forever" was still pretty good,  mostly because of jim carrey's performance). The first Ninja Turtle movie is very dark and dramatized with a surprising amount of character depth. The reason for this I believe is because this movie is based on the true origin of the Ninja Turtles, a comic book, which in turn was designed for young adults, not kids. The sequels on the other hand seem to mimic the morning cartoon show that's for 5-10 year olds. I've watched this movie recently and I find it to be a better film than when I first saw it in the theatre. Which is strange because I'm 10 years older now, which further proves my point that it's strangely good for adults. The music, dark production, the fantastic costumes, and drama are really well done, despite what some ignorant critics may say. I assure you this is a movie that can be enjoyed by people over the age of 13. I encourage anyone who hasn't seen it to at least go rent it. I know the fact that it's a movie about mutated turtles who live in the sewers, eat pizza and perform martial arts seems incredibly stupid and in concept it is. But the surprisingly serious and dark tone of the film and how well the whole thing was made really does it make it an enjoyable movie, even for adults. Just watch it with an open mind and you might find yourself actually liking it. And if you do like it and decide you wanna see the sequels as a result of that, DON'T! The second movie, despite trying to still appeal to adults, falls flat on it's butt for the most part. It just couldn't help but succumb to Hollywood's desire to water down something good and appeal to younger age groups. The film is somewhat decent at best. The turtles do a rap with Vanilla Ice in it for gods sake!!! Need I say more? And don't even get me started on the third film. What a piece of garbage that is.
So I dare anyone who hasn't seen the movie, regardless of your age, to go rent it and watch the entire thing with an open mind.