The following gripes I have are mainly related to the Donner cut DVD, but I've also summarized various issues with the theatrical version.

The Superman II theatrical movie (by Richard Lester) isn't the same as the TV movie I remember seeing in the 80s.. nor is the Donner cut DVD. Apparently, the TV version was the Lester cut, with some of Donner's best scenes integrated in. It is refreshing to see never-before-seen footage from the Donner cut, but by no means is it superior to Lester's version. In fact, many of the scenes are terrible...

Donnor Cut Version:

1) For example, the opening scene showing the credits and highlights from the first movie are gone. The John Williams score is still there, but it is a shortened (and less effective) track.
2) Also, they took out the Eiffel Tower scene and replaced it with Lois jumping out of the Daily Planet building.
3) Lex Luthor and Miss Tessmacher scenes when they first enter Superman's Fortress are new, but dialogue is no better than the Lester scenes. The tv version's hackman seemed like he wasn't over-acting. It featured a close-up view of Hackman's face, where he says "think of it.. three super villains, all with the same wonderful contempt for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness".
4) Niagra Falls is included, but the part where Clark trips and lands on the fireplace is replaced by a ludicrous scene of Lois shooting a gun filled with blanks.
5) Marlon Brando scenes were dissapointing. Whereas Superman's interaction with his holographic mother, Lara, was compassionate, his meeting with Jor-El seemed confrontational, portraying Superman as a spoiled teenager.
6) And towards the end, Superman flies back in time to undo the damage done by General Zod.. an "anticlimax" indeed, Lex Luthor!

As a general comment, Reeve's appearance in several "restored" scenes - like his physique and hair - is inconsistent with the rest of the movie. Overall, the Donner Cut felt like a compilation of deleted scenes.

Moving on to the theatrical version, some missing scenes which I thought took away substantially from the film include the following...

Theatrical Version (Lester Cut):

1) Concorde scene
2) Luthor's funny comment to Otis in the prison laundry room, "Otis, your brain defies any known scientific laws in its infinite capacity to deteriorate."
3) Nasa personnel: "All right, which one of you guys is using a hair dryer?"
4) Lex Luthor's unique North Pole dialogue (mentioned above in Donner's cut).
5) When the US army approaches the three villains, Non first gestures to Zod for permission before unleashing his heat vision.
6) Luthor's witty response to Zod, "No, Jor-El the baseball player!"
7) A few missing scenes of the New York battle. One example includes Zod's comment to Superman, "It is extremely likely you are merely a fool. Like father, like son."
8) Superman grabbing the S from his chest and throwing at Non (some people think it's corny, but I found it fascinating as a child..a super power no one has ever seen before).
9) Humorous response from tough-looking bald guy whom Clark accidentally bumps into, "Hey, try sleeping at night, buster!". This fluidly transitions to the hotdog diner scene where Clark was brutally beaten up as a human.

I am wishing they would release the ABC-TV version. It had all the great qualities from Lester and Donner. To me this tv version was the superior movie. How about a release of all three versions in one DVD package similar to the Bladerunner 4-version set?