There is nothing I hate more than a review on Amazon that does not, in fact, review the film, but rather, gives a film a one star rating for something outside the film/filmmaker's control. This is one of those reviews.

Dressed to kill was originally shot on Panavision anamorphic lenses. The original aspect ratio is 2.39:1. This aspect ratio is listed in the description for the DVD and BluRay, leading me to believe the Amazon Instant ratio would be the same, considering there is no aspect ratio descriptor anywhere on Instant. So I bought it, started streaming, and found the old VHS pan-and-scan 4:3 version staring me in the face. More than 2/3 of the picture had been cut away without warning.

So, I requested a refund. The Amazon worker I chatted with was very helpful and polite. However, he/she did inform me that this would be a one-time thing, as refunds are not normally given for digital copies. Considering the aspect ratio is completely different from what's listed on Amazon, I think this is really lame.

I then asked if there was a place where I could submit a complaint about Amazon's policy regarding aspect ratio and charging for movies that are not properly labeled (which I consider just this side of defrauding). I was told to leave a review on the movie, which is what I'm doing now.

For years, I've been angry with people who leave one-star reviews for DVDs because a feature is missing, or the quality is bad, or Amazon didn't deliver on time, because this brought down the rating of an otherwise fine film. Now I know: this is the only way to let anyone know. You can't complain to Amazon, you can't just put up a warning that, "HEY! This is a DIFFERENT VERSION and contains DIFFERENT STUFF!"

It would be really nice if, when reading a review on Amazon, I could actually read a review of what I'm purchasing, not a review of a release copy from 18 years ago. It would also be nice if all of the pertinent information for a release was actually reported on the release, because if I purchase something expecting one thing (that is clearly written in the description) and get another, I would like to not be charged for it.

That being said, I like Amazon. I just wish they'd fix their effed up review system and release version descriptors.

So, Amazon, this rating of 1 star is for your release of Dressed to Kill on Instant at an incorrect aspect ratio. I'm also giving 1 star to your crappy review system.

And yet, Dressed to Kill, the film, will take the hit. Too bad, it's an all right movie. At least three stars, I would think.