I read a lot of reviews before going ahead and deciding to rent this movie. I am a woman in my thirties who loves comedies, especially romantic comedies. And if you are someone who has kept up with recent movie trends in comedy, you know that nudity and vulgar humor is nothing new. If you have seen "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" and "American Reunion" you have seen male nudity. Honestly, it's about time. We've been watching naked women for decades on television. It's about time some naked men were added to the mix.  Most of the reviews here have exaggerated the amount of nudity in this movie. Basically, just one guy is naked through the movie, with one scene at the end in which everyone is running and naked (and it's funny).

I won't get into details about the movie itself, but if you like today's idea of what a comedy is or a romantic comedy, like "My Best Friend's Girl," you will enjoy this movie. I laughed many times. Paul Rudd is his usual hilarious self (and even funnier) and you get to see another side of Jennifer Aniston that she has yet to display in prior films. I really enjoyed this movie. I just got done watching it and am going to watch it again. Although, I felt the need to write this review for all the other people out there like myself, who are open-minded, down to earth, enjoy a good laugh and don't take offense to nudity. It's not one of those cheesy movies you watch and want to stop watching 5 minutes in. It's interesting and entertaining from beginning to end. I truly can't understand all of the bad reviews, unless the world consists of a lot of snobby, pretentious people? If you are a red-blooded, meat-eating (or vegan) American, you will love this movie! I hope that my review has done the job of helping others like myself decide whether or not they would like to rent this. If you want to be entertained and laugh, rent this movie now. If you are looking for some philosophical movie with some intrinsic deeper meaning, rent something else. Again, I really enjoyed this and am watching it again.