(Anyone with a low threshold for gross-out/toilet humor, STAY AWAY!)
"Kingpin" is a highly underrated film that tragically remains unseen by many people. There are two reasons for this: 
1) It's a film about bowling.
2) It's a gag-filled comedy starring Woody Harrelson, a good actor in his own right but one who just doesn't have the kind of audience-drawing power of, say, Jim Carrey. 
But don't let these factors fool you. Woody and bowling are a odd coupling, but it does wonders up on screen.
The strength of "Kingpin" lies in its characters. All three of the main protagonists undergo individual arcs that are completely believable and relatable to the audience. Vanessa Angel's street-smart but wanton sex cat develops into a charming woman. Randy Quaid's Omish oaf matures into an adult and makes a name for himself. And Woody Harrelson's Roy Munson changes from a one-handed, past-prime, deadbeat, ex-bowling-champion to a decent human being. 
Of course, great characters are nothing till great actors bring them to life. And what a cast! Woody Harrelson, a highly underrated actor, gives a stand-out performance. Bill Murray? Forget about it. This guy's the king of witty, understated, visual comedy. And geez, who would have ever thought Randy Quaid could be this funny? Displaying excellent comic timing and delivery, Quaid surprised me as much as Jeff Daniels did in "Dumb and Dumber." Unfortunately, "Kingpin" does have a weak spot: Vanessa Angel and her less-than-stellar acting voice. But this is only a small distraction. She manages well and has great chemistry with the other two leads. 
I firmly believe this is the best film the Farrellys' have made so far. Sure, "Dumb and Dumber" is funnier but it's a film that has no impact (which is fine since it's a goofy comedy). Sure "There's Something About Mary" is more romantic (in a twisted sort of way) and made tons of money but it's a film that's too harsh and over-the-top. "Kingpin," on the other hand, makes you laugh and causes you to care about its characters - about the hero of the story, in particular. Roy Munson starts off truly dispicable and pathetic, but ends up charming and appealing. He gains much empathy in his quest to become a "winner." And when he goes up against Murray's Ernie McCracken in a bowling showdown (which, by the way, is as tense as any other showdown in the world of sports), you are there with him, aching and hurting and hoping he'll win. And he does become a winner. Just not in the way you'd expect. 
Truly, the ending of "Kingpin" is the Farrellys' finest hour of storytelling: they fall into a screenwriting pit (how will Munson be redeemed?), defy both cliche and expectation, and come out on top with a moving, poignant and highly satisfying ending. You will be hard pressed to find another comedy bearing so much heart while retaining its witty humor.
As for the DVD itself, it features a R-rated cut of the film that includes added scenes, which admittedly, do not really add or take away anything from the overall movie. Just some raunchier material. And there's the commentary from the Farrellys, which is amusing but random, spotty, and not very informative. Obviously, this disc is not brimming with extras but can't complain with the cheap price. You'll also notice the DVD has both widescreen and full-screen versions of the film. Normally, I only watch widescreen because there's no cropping. But take note, this film was shot in super35, which basically means it was shot in full screen and matted to cover the top and bottom (some directors, like Cameron and Verhoven, are known to shoot in this format). Widescreen crops the top and bottom. Full-screen shave a little off the sides. So take your pick.