This is a good film, but not a terrific film.
Costner attempts an almost "Common Man's" view of the Cuban Missile Crisis in the movie Thirteen Days.
Taken from White House Political Advisor Kenny O'Donnell's memoirs, Thirteen Days actually manages a few historical accuracies over the 1970s book and TV Movie: "The Missiles of October" and other works on the subject.
O'Donnell correctly attributed the "you're in a hell of a mess, Mr. President" comment to Air Force General Curtis LeMay.  A fact actually discovered to be backed up by recently discovered tapes of the conversation made by the White House.
While I liked both of these movies and books, and while I feel that "Missiles of October" gives the audience a better view of the political thought processes during the crisis, Thirteen Days makes no attempt to idolize John & Bobby Kennedy.  In "Thirteen Days" they appear as much less decisive and strong as they appear in "Missiles of October". "Missiles of October" falsely makes it appear as if all the major ideas during the crisis came from Kennedy.  Kennedy's career showed that he was a man of cautious consensus - especially after the disastrous political defeat at Munich and the even more disastrous military Bay of Pigs incident. Thirteen Days is far more consistent with reality in this sense.
Everybody appears weak.  Everybody makes stupid mistakes which could have been disastrous.  Nobody is overly romanticized.  More importantly, Thirteen Days attempts (whether accurately or fictitiously) to show the crisis from the side of the pilots and smaller people normally ignored in the history books.
You're given a feeling of the danger of the reconnaissance missions and the political agendas of mission debriefings.
Thirteen Days also gives us an inkling of just why the Vietnam War was run with such silly, strict rules of engagement.  Both the Democratic and Republican Administrations in the White House after Kennedy felt that the military had been out of control during the Cuban Missile Crisis. With the normal vying for power between State Department and Defense Department that occurs in any administration, the Cabinet and the Executive Branch of the US Government would never be run exactly the same after the Cuban Missile Crisis.  They held tight reigns during the Vietnam War and consequently made even darker mistakes that cost thousands of lives.
Thirteen Days glamorizes no historical figure. While I fault the film for omitting many of the key facts and events of the crisis, it still does an exceptional job of looking at the Cuban Missile Crisis from the Bottom Up, as opposed from the Top Down.
Just as it is normal for fans or football teams to tend to overly glorify or idolize a single key athlete, Thirteen Days reminds us that no single person deserves all the credit or blame in a nuclear crisis or any other political crisis in history.
Thirteen Days reminds us that we are all human, and that whatever good or evil comes from our actions and weaknesses, Americans have had the uncommon great fortune of placing people in their government and military who are somehow, collectively able to overcome and rise above their individual weaknesses and do the right thing for America survive and succeed.