First off, I love Tilda Swinton. She always fully and intensely inhabits her roles, and she did so again in this film, which in turn stays very true to the book of the same name. As is almost always the case, the book goes into much greater depth, but the film still does a good job of capturing the essence of the story. It is shot in an extremely fragmented manner, both visually and chronologically speaking, but since I was already familiar with the story, I could be a little off in my assessment that this constant back and forth still makes sense as the film progresses, although even I was beginning to tire of it about a third of the way into the film. However, I recognized that Kevin's mother could not escape from her shattered existence, so I understood the need for this disorienting (and effective) camerawork/editing. While they never do completely abandon this format--still flashing forward in time and back again occasionally--the film does settle down a bit towards the middle and spares us the constant freneticism of the jump cuts that marks its start. Another reviewer also rightly pointed out the overt symbolism that occurs throughout the film from its very start: smashed tomatoes; oozing red jam; spattering red paint: we get it.

The film, as did the book, will definitely spark conversations regarding nature versus nurture. I tend to think that both factors are at work, both in this story and in real life, and again, both film and book do a good job of depicting that, although since it is my understanding that film & book are works of fiction, I tend to wonder if the depiction of Kevin isn't a little TOO evil, right from the start. When I read the book (and the film carries this over), I almost felt like it provided the kind of pat answer we all want to hear about the whys of what motivates the kids who show up to school and mow their classmates down one day: because they're bad seeds from the outset. I kind of think it may be a little bit more complicated than that. It might be even scarier for us to think that they were in any way normal, ever. Watching this movie, any of us can watch Kevin and see immediately that there's something wrong with him. It's the fact that we can't predict who might be the next killer that scares us.