Obviously, the sequel isn't going to be as good as the first.  They never are.  This is no different, the storyline is similar with all the characters resembling each other as well.  Basically, Melody is Ariel, only in a much younger perspective wanting to be a mermaid (just like Ariel wanted to be a human in the first), Morgana is Ursula, only skinnier with her pet shark who is the eels.  Tip and Dash are basically Flounder and Sebastian.  I enjoyed Tip and Dash a lot, especially compared to the annoying Flounder.  All the original characters make appearances, Sebastian is the crap that used to look after Ariel for King Tritan but now he's supposed to look over Melody for Ariel and Eric.  Flounder is still around, yet fatter and his voice is more annoying, King Triton is now the worried grandfather instead of just the worried father.  The real downfall here is Prince Eric, who is rarely in the movie but his voice is different and for the worst.  He looks a bit different too, he has like blue eyes in this one which makes him look strange.
The storyline as I said is similar.  Melody wants to explore the sea, she's an OUTCAST on land and SNEAKS out by going under the wall between the castle and the ocean.  She meets Morgana, an EVIL OCTOPUS who has the POWER to TRANSFORM her into a mermaid (hint: with help from Ursula) and she can REMAIN a MERMAID if she STEALS the "pitchfork" (sorry I forget its name) from her grandfather, yet she doesn't know he's her grandfather.  Melody captures it with the help of Tip and Dash and returns to Morgana.  All the while Ariel has transformed back into a mermaid in hope to find Melody in the sea while Eric looks on land.  Morgana TURNS on Melody and transforms her back into a human and keeps her underwater until she drowns.  The shark crashes into the ice barrier and Melody is free, Ariel and Melody chat then realize that Eric and the rest of them are in trouble.  Melody saves the day.  That is basically the whole storyline.
Though very similar to the first one, this is still a good watch and would be a nice movie to show your little kids, especially since they probably wouldn't care if the first one is the original.  It's a fun movie, not as romantic or as funny as the first but still fun.  If you collect Disney movies or really enjoyed this one if you saw it, buy it.  Other than that I'd just suggest you rent this one.