I have actually also read the book, which tells you something about the impact this movie had upon me.  In it Monger points out one of the great ironies of the story- the man with the longest and most enigmatic nickname did not need one:  The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill But Came Down a Mountain was quite probably the only man named Anson living West of the Welsh border.  He wasn't named Williams, Evans, Jones or Morgan. That he had one was a mark of the respect and admiration that the townfolk had for the schoolmaster.  And understandably: In the course of the movie we see a high class Englisman fall in love with a place and a people, not just Betty From Cardiff.

This is a story of a miracle that these humble Welsh folk wrought for themselves: A miracle of love, courage and healing in the midst of awful war [OK, there's a wee bit of skullduggery as well]. It takes place towards the end of the First World War- at a time when the lives of ordinary people had been brutalized through the sheer shock of massive loss- scarcely a single family had not seen a husband, son or father die- and if not your own family then you had lost a friend to the war.

Hugh Grant's character, Anson, is himself a victim of shell shock or what we would now call PST. He has been reduced to a pale shadow.  But he wants to live again, if only he can find the courage.  To me this is the real theme of this movie- that to love takes courage, but you cannot really live unless you love.  That truth underpins the emotional climax of this movie: It is exemplified most of all in the character of Anson in that moment after the sun has gone down on the last possible day when the town's dream of officially restoring the status of their mountain can still be attained: The moment when Betty asks him to stay the night atop the mountain so that he can measure it in the early morning light before he has to leave.  She takes an extraordinary risk, putting her reputation permanently on the line by offering to stay the night with him to keep him company.  Of course, what she is really offering him is far more than merely a single night. And then we watch a miracle unfold as Anson finds the courage to fight past the trauma of war and his class prejudices to accept her offer of a lifetime of love. It is a truly moving, indeed tearjerking moment because we can actually already see that this is a decision that he will never, ever regret, no not even for an instant- no matter what his highbrow family might (no, make that absolutely will) think of his bride. It is a truly beautiful moment and Tara Fitzgerald and Hugh Grant were never better than at that moment in this movie- acting so good that we see the future of their characters unfolding before them.

As you can tell this is a favorite movie of mine. I watch it at least once a year.