A good film usually expresses its story visually.  It shows us the story.  Not this one.  Pulp Fiction is a rich circular story about around gangsters, criminals, and a mysterious briefcase. In this story, Tarantino boldly breaks the rules of screenwriting, delivering a film where the dialogue drives the story.  Good dialogue seems organic and almost conversational, yet express a deep rich subtext. Take for instance, Vincent and Jules' conversation before they carry out a hit.  They discuss drugs in Amsterdam and how their boss supposedly threw a guy out the window for giving his wife a foot massage. The dialogue seems random and unrelated to the plot--almost like everyday conversation.  Yet this shows Tarantino's masterful writing skills, because he is able to pack so much weight in dialogue without seeming to do so.  Vincent later later on takes out his boss' wife on a date on the boss' order, and she almost overdoses on heroin.  Now, what is in the audience's is what would happen to him if he brings her back dead; if some guy got thrown out a window for massaging her foot, what worse will happen to him?  Tarantino puts his characters in dire and serious situations, but he always finds dark humor in these circumstances.  Do you think you would ever laugh at someone's brains getting blown out?  The movie combines a very ironic mix of violence and humor throughout that takes you on a thrilling experience.  The unconventional structure of the story adds another twist, with interrelated scenes that add more context to each other.  It does not depend on action or special effects to catch the attention of its viewer.  The ensemble cast, including John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Harvey Keitel, bring their characters to life.  Pulp Fiction's creativity in juggling all these aspects creates a movie that is pure pleasure to watch and be dazzled by.  It is for an audience that dares a movie to break all conventions, just as its characters defy all the rules.