Excellent movie but for reasons other than the acting and the adventure.  The movie is an allegory following the life of Jesus Christ from his birth  to his death.  It is a modern Passion play in the truest sense of the word  and its wide appeal is due to the chord that the story of Christ touches in  all of mankind.  The movie begins with a rebel priest preaching to a small  group of passengers on a cruise ship, which is destined for catastrophe of  apocalyptic proportions.  The rebel priest is Jesus Christ.  Jesus was also  a rebel who was sent to change the status quo and bring the word of God to  the people so that they can be saved.  The tidal wave which was the hand of  God, the father, in motion came upon the cruise ship and overturning it on  Christmas night.  The world is now upside down and there is debate as to  the best course to be saved.  The rebel priest says that all must follow  him and have faith in him to be saved.  Not all heed the call.  Those few  that do are the chosen ones and they begin by climbing the Christmas tree  to follow their leader to the bottom of the ship.  Those that remain  perish.  Those that go with the priest are an old man and his wife (Joseph  and Mary), a former policeman and his wife who was once a prostitute (Peter  the rock and Mary Magdalene) and two children.  On their journey they  encounter various trials in which their faith in the rebel priest is  tested.  They encounter a group of people going in the opposite direction  led by a false prophet to their eventual doom.  When the small group  finally reaches the bottom of the ship and they are almost to their  destination their way is blocked by flames.  At this point the rebel priest  throws himself at a large valve to close it off, and in a scene reminiscent  of the crucifixion, the priest hangs on to the valve until the last minute  and he falls to his death in the water and fire below. The path is now open  and His followers enter the final door and at that moment they are rescued  as men like angels descend from a helicopter to cut them out of the ship  and save them.  The movie is replete with analogies drawn from the Bible I  leave it to the astute viewer to uncover them for himself.