I enjoyed the movie. The title for this movie is silly. The main Character of the Movie is William Wiberforce.  William Wilberforce knew the author of the song Amazing Grace, but so what. The movie is not about Mr. Newton, the Song, or Grace. Twice in the movie is song in a relative contrived way. The song does not fit the movie or the situation in the movie. William Wilberforce's faith pays a major part of the movie. To say God's Grace is a theme of the movie would be a stretch.  It is clear the title was chosen to sell the movie.

This is an excellent depiction of a man who worked with single mindedness to change the law about the slave trade. It depicts a man struggling with his conscience, cultural forces, his faith, and political reality. The man pursues what he believes to be true, correct, and God's Will.  He tries to bring social change through argument and protest. He works with great energy to change the minds of those in power, but over the years of slow progress he becomes weary of his consuming passion to meet his goal.  His passion has progress in society, but the minds in parliament change slower.  How to frame the argument? How to gather allies who have deviating agendas, but agree in the end of the slave trade? The movie does an excellent job telling the horror of the shipment of human cargo. The movie tells how the French revolution detracts from the political process to end the trade. Less is told of the common poverty of the time. This movie depicts a Christian man, but I consider it less then accurate its depiction how church and Faith effected society as a whole in that the time period of the events shown.  The one book I read written William Wilberforce tells of a Christendom society that one's declared Faith does not reflect Godly nature in one's daily life. I believe a good portion of both his allies and his opposition positioned themselves as Christians, at least in the manner of regular church attendance and shape of argument. This is totally lacking in the movie. I know Locke by his time had great effect on public argument, but I doubt this much.  Anyway my side thoughts besides, it still is a good movie. The times are not portrayed as what was.