After seeing the preview for this movie in theaters, I was eager to watch it; however, after attending the movie itself, I felt extremely disappointed.  The preview and the description on the DVD case mislead you as to the actual contents of the movie.

I gave this movie two stars strictly because I loved the dogs.  They were great "actors" and touch your emotions (you cry at the tragic parts, laugh at their goofy antics, and all throughout they are absolutely lovable). All the other reviewers have pretty well covered how good the dogs are :)

Unfortunately, WAY too much of this movie is devoted to the human actors, none of whom were convincing or even really likable, and many of their scenes were rather pointless to the development of the main story. That is why I felt misled by the previews. Jerry is annoying because he has absolutely no backbone (which helps cause the tragedy of the dogs being left behind alone) and he never improves, either. Katie is even more annoying because she is entirely self-absorbed.

There are some other characters and aspects to the storyline: the "Doc" as Jerry calls him, hunting for a small piece of outer-space rock in the vast fields of snow and ice (the rock is found conveniently sitting atop the snow by itself. I would imagine a fall from space would cause it to bury itself, or else a snowstorm would cover it up). In the end he is the one who secures the funds and organizes the rescue of Jerry's dogs (a rescue which Katie coolly takes the credit for, though all she did was get hired to fly the helicopter). Then there is Cooper, who is just simply strange. He is supposed to be funny, I think, but isn't.

The romantic angle with Jerry and Katie is unconvincing: Jerry apparently likes Katie, but doesn't have enough gumption to do anything about it, so she pursues him throughout the movie, and he finally succumbs at the end. The two seem like junior high kids having a crush on a cute member of the opposite sex simply because they are cute. When they try to actually talk, they don't even have anything to talk about, especially since Katie resents Jerry's devotion to his "family" of dogs.

Once the dogs get left behind, the movie alternates between scenes with the dogs and scenes with the humans. The scenes with the dogs seemed to fly by, while those with the actors dragged. Jerry mopes around and makes a few half-hearted attempts to figure out a way to rescue the dogs, but gives up easily when things don't work out. Katie basically has the attitude that now that the dogs are out of the picture, Jerry should just get over it so her competition for his attention will be gone. A big deal is made of how dangerous it is to go to Antarctica in the winter; we are made to understand how absolutely impossible it is; yet at the end the little expedition (Jerry, Katie, the Doc, and Cooper) breeze right in on a lovely sunlit day and pick up the dogs with no difficulty. It was so simple and quick (and anticlimatic) that it leaves you wondering why on earth they just didn't do that to start with.

Overall, the previews and descriptions of the movie led me to think it was mainly a story of survival, devotion, etc. Those elements were there, but all too often the movie lost focus on them. I think the original story had great potential to make a terrific movie, but it wasn't well developed.