Retirement sucks, as anyone can tell you.  For former black-ops CIA agents, the inactivity would drive a person insane.  Bruce Willis (Frank Moses) is suffering from that insanity.  He's a loner, his house lacking all the essential necessities to make it a home, and he's bored out of his mind.  He doesn't know how to blend into the neighborhood, pitifully viewing the landscape for what is expected. His desperation, his loneliness, and the inactivity of retirement leads him to tear up his retirement check and call an ever patient, equally lonely customer service agent in Kansas City.  The conversations with Sarah (Parker) are the highlight of his month and, through these conversations, he attempts to become more 'normal'.  Someone should tell Frank that a man reading a romance novel is not considered 'normal'.
This retirement that eats at Frank's nerves is shattered when a hit squad attacks his house in the middle of the night.  Frank, as skilled as ever, kills the assassins.  Decades of training leads him to believe they have tapped his phone lines, and he's off to Kansas to save his phone buddy Sarah. Her reluctance to be saved (imagine someone you've only ever spoken to being in your home when you come back from an excrutiatingly boring date!) causes Frank to kidnap her.

Sarah goes on a wild ride with Frank while he attempts to discover who is trying to kill him and why.  He travels cross country to find the members of his old black ops team, who are all equally retired and bored to death. Meanwhile, the viewer discovers the CIA is the machine behind the attempt on Frank's life.

Morgan Freeman (Joe Black) is at his suave self, living in a retirement community and suffering from stage 4 cancer.  John Malkovich (LSD paranoid Marvin) hides in tunnels and carries a stuffed pig under his arm.  Helen Mirren proves that mature women can be sexy carrying a high powered rifle,and arranging flowers in a Better Homes and Garden style home. Her comment about taking an 'odd job on the side' still makes me laugh.

This is an all-star cast of superb actors that deliver an action-packed, fast paced, comedic, and highly entertaining film.  The twists and turns are thrilling. I loved every moment of it and it proves that even the retirees have a magnetic bit of life still left in them.