The film plays out more like a fable, and is filled with fantastical time coincidences.  In the beginning of the film, Affleck's character is giving a speech to a charity audience and Jackson is buying a house for his ex-wife and attending an AA meeting.  Then it turns out these seemingly good deeds are actually self-serving acts.  The men oscillate wildly between immoral and destructive behavior and selfless good deeds.  The problem is, every time that each character decides to do something good, the other had just decided to do something bad to him.  This is not escalation, it is deux ex machina manipulation.  As a result, it becomes difficult to track each character, so the portrayals come off as acting exercises glommed on to an implausible plot.

Pollack, as a mentor for bad, and Hurt, as a mentor for good, seem to have ended up primarily on the cutting room floor.  The three female characters (two wives, one mistress) are also sketchy.  Far too much screen time is devoted to Affleck writhing around in indecision, trying to provide depth to his character.  Jackson is luckier because the screenwriter has provided him with stronger (and more plausible) verbal material.

Curiously, it is a film about two men not particularly fighting against each other, but fighting against two very different systems.  As such, it is a film that one can watch and discuss afterward.  As a fable, the dual happy ending - Affleck uses corruption to blackmail the system into doing good, Jackson goes through his 12 steps and is rewarded with good fortune - is, in some ways, satisfying.  It's like a Sydney Pollack film with a little too much plot contrivances and too little character accuracy.  The film is to Pollack's ouvre what many of Woody Allen's films are to their tributees.

As an afterthought, you have to wonder whether these characters don't use public transportation because the filmmaker watched "Bullitt" and "The French Connection" a few too many times.  From the title to the opening credit sequence, the filmmaker confuses genres, which is probably why he does not have enough screen time (and screenwriting talent) to slow the story down and turn the fable into something that feels more like truth (as in the court scenes).

P.S. (I guess that would make it an afterthought to an afterthought) On further reflection, I realize that the opening premises of the movie are implausible: 1, that Affleck would be entrusted with such an important document and travel alone and be late, 2, that Jackson would contrive to buy a house he wouldn't live in, intending to use it as a surprise at a family court hearing, and not have any other representation at the hearing that was aware of the strategy, and, finally, 3, that a family court hearing, with both parties not represented, would start on time and be concluded within 20 minutes of its scheduled time (typically multiple hearings are scheduled for the same time, and the clerk will control the order based upon who is present and so on).