For people complaining about how "bad" the teacher's behavior was in the movie and how "teachers do not treat students like that", this movie is called BAD TEACHER. "Bad" implies inappropraite behavior. It's meant to be a bit over the top and probably isnt likely to happen in real life. But this is a just a movie, so it's allowed to be exaggerated for comedic affect.

Anyways, having said that, being a huge fan of Cameron Diaz for her quirky characters and cute romantic comedies, i really couldnt wait to watch this movie. I admit that Diaz might not always play characters with much depth, but they are always fun and engaging. In "Bad Teacher" she plays the Elizabeth, aforementioned bad teacher, she drinks, uses weed, curses, doesnt teach, cheats, yells at her students and hits them with basketballs. But she also displays another side of her that is funny, determined, and isnt scared of a challenge. She's the anti-hero audiences end up rooting for.

Russel's (Jason Segal) plays the persistent gym teacher that provides another comedic element to the story. At first i was afraid that he was gonna be the whipped loser who is charmed by Diaz's character no matter how badly she treats him, but that ends up not being the case. He is not spineless and has a wicked sense of humor. His performance is on par with Diaz's. I have a feeling he's gonna be in the hollywood industry to stay.

Justin Timberlake plays Scott, a new rich substitute teacher. I'm not very sure why he turned to movies, and his character here is a bit one dimensional and slightly unlikeable, but at one instant very,very funny. He plays the role of the rich guy Diaz is trying to bag but we all know is he's not right for her.

Overall, this movie is perfect for an evening in with a bowl of popcorn and a huge can of soda. It's lighthearted, genuinely funny, and has the perfect (albeit a slightly predictable) ending. I just loved it! Even the snobby characters have a side that makes you feel sorry for them. A great main cast combined an equally quirky supporting cast makes a great movie for the summer!