(I am a white, southern, Christian, Republican descended from Confederates on both sides of my family, BTW)
A piece of racist garbage from the past. This movie helped the rebirth of the KKK in the 1920's. The movie has been kept around all these years because it was a) the first full length motion picture b) the first epic. The truth is, it was NIETHER. Movies made in America may have started to get more elaborate after this film's release (another erroneous credit it's given), but that was because they were starting to catch up with European movies. The movie is STILL in use by the KKK as a recruiting tool. It's easy to see how this movie must have inflamed white audiences of the day. First, the movie is titled wrong, it's about the DEATH of a nation, namely the CSA. It starts out with the "War Between the States". The protagonist of the film is captured by "Yanks", and awaits his hanging. Johnny Reb's wife makes a tearful plea to a cranky and somewhat mean Abe Lincoln, and his life is spared. That part would be almost funny in a way if the movie wasn't so serious in it's racism. In one scene, a black reconstructionist USA Yankee soldier (played by a white guy in black face) pillages a white southern home, while being chastised by a 300lb black Aunt Jemimah type (fat white gal in black face). So you have the "good negroes know there place" cliche`. In fact, every stereotype about black folks is in this film. And for that matter, this film reinforces stereotypes about white southerners all being racist redneck bigots. Anyways,the hot blooded Negro can no longer stand it, and tries to rape a white women. The woman, the embodiment of southern pulchritude (whatever that is) flings herself head first of a cliff to avoid being taken by a Negro. Our heart broken hero holds his dead wife in his arms and cries in anguish (I wonder how many ignorant people joined the Klan after seeing that scene alone?)Then in a scene with a white child frightening a black child with a sheet over his head (not the way the Klan started, BTW), our "hero" gets the idea of how he can save the south...and you get the idea. I see no reason this bit of celluloid trash made it on to digital. If enough people don't buy it, it will go out of print. It may be "historical" in some ways, but then again so is Mien Kampf. Some things just need to die and be forgotten.