DVD navigation is great as far as I am concerned.

There are many instances when the background music drowns the conversations that I couldn't figure out what the characters were saying even after I tried to rewind it.

My biggest complain though is about Tohru Honda's character. Before anything else, I just want to make it clear that I do not hate Tohru Honda. I have been an anime lover for years and I've never hated a villain or any female anime character. I've never disliked Yanagi of Flame of Recca even when all she could do is cry and say Recca's name. I am the type who would defend Haruko of Slam Dunk with all my might because some didn't like her just because she likes Rukawa Kaede. I do not hate Rukawa's fangirls or Yuki's fangirls. I look at them like humans, with desires and longings and faults and all.

However, I am very disturbed by Tohru's character. She is so unreal. It is very obvious that she was plucked out of a girl's fantasy of being around beautiful men and being swooned over and yet very innocent about it. Now, even Yanagi and Haruko got to be surrounded by bishonens (beautiful men). What makes Tohru so different is that she is so perfect, so perfect that it makes me cringe. At 16, she is pretty, kind, goes to school and works as a cleaner aside from being a housekeeper at the Sohma house. At the Sohma house, she cleans, cooks, do laundry, wash dishes, etc, etc that you would wonder why she still has time to have friends. She smiles all the time and knows how to say the right words at the right time. EVERYBODY LIKES HER! Are you cringing yet? Almost every character in the anime would change their outlook just because they were touched by this kind and innocent looking girl. Take note that those characters are damaged in some way and yet they found some solace in her. Talk about ego.

Rules were bent just to accommodate her. Every outsider's memories were erased but she was spared. Why? Who knows? Even the heartless Akito was touched by her sentimentality. It is not clear if it was because she is pretty and kind. How would the Sohmas know that she won't betray them? Because she is perfect!

I just didn't like the portrayal of Tohru Honda's character. What kind of anime creator would make a girl take her dead mother's picture to the hot springs so that they could bathe together?

Not only Tohru Honda is a typical Mary Sue, she is also a typical big-eyed, short-skirted high school girl. What could be worse?

Yes, Virginia, there is more. All the Sohmas are goodlooking! I don't even feel bad for Kyou when he transformed into a hideous beast because I know it is still him, just a different form. What made me feel for his character is because he was so left out when he was tricked by the rat in the zodiac. And I am a cat lover!

However, parents-dying-and-brothers-not-getting-along plot are so common that it fails to arouse sympathy.

On the plus side, there are a lot of lessons that we could get. How ironic is it that for all the supposedly mature characters, a younger boy would stand out? Momiji has probably one of the most painful and touching experiences. How can anyone not cry when he said that no matter how painful the memories were, he would never, ever choose to forget them? Personally, that is the highlight of this anime.

Hattori is another one who had a very painful past. How tragic must have it been to be the one to erase one's memories from a beloved?

Shigure is probably my most liked character because he is so real. He doesn't fail to make you laugh. He doesn't hide his feelings. He says things as they are and he doesn't care what people think of him. He likes teasing people and doesn't hide his penchant for high school girls.