I've already left comments for Episode IV and after looking at the comments for "Return of the Jedi" I thought I should leave a review for Episode VI as well.

Ok, I know this is going to sound like common sense for most people, but this specific Star Wars release is for individuals who either have not already purchased the Star Wars Trilogy on DVD or have been waiting around for George Lucas to release the Original Theatrical Version since "The Phantom Menace" came out. If you have no interest in owning a single copy of the Star Wars Trilogy on DVD before the 1997 Special Edition or 2004 Digital Remastering, then this set of movies is not for you.

However, if you are a Star Wars purist, have an artistic interest in the evolution of the Star Wars Trilogy, or want to reconnect to the movies that began it all (before they were tweaked), then I would highly recommend purchasing this version without reservation.

With regard to ROTJ, I have to remark that the transfer could have been better. Although the film quality is far superior than Episode IV and much better than Episode V, there is no reason that this movie should not have been touched up, provided with a 5.1 digital surround sound (Dolby or DTS), or remastered with an anamorphic widescreen. The fact that the DVD lacks these features (along with the fact that the original theatrical version is considered a "Bonus Disk") provides a clear picture that Lucas did not take his time in providing a set for the fans of the original trilogy but instead decided to make a feign attempt to placate those individuals who have been begging for a set of these movies on DVD as they were originally produced.

For individuals who are hesitant, I would recommend waiting to purchase this item because historically nothing released by George Lucas is truly for "a limited time only." Additionally, there is a good chance that another set or boxed set will be released next year in order to celebrate 30th anniversary of Star Wars. Also keep in mind that once Blu-Ray and HD-DVD players become standard household devices we will see another release of these movies; probably with the same "limited edition" label attached.

Hopefully, those who do decide that it is worthwhile to pick up a copy of this movie or all of these movies will be pleased to finally own a version of the Star Wars Trilogy that reflects the movies they saw and fell in love with for the first time.