Words can't describe the joy I received when I discovered the movie Silver Bullet was going to be released on DVD. Originally released in 1985, Silver Bullet is based on a novelette created by horror writer Steven King in which a young boy (Cory Haim) discovers the grizzly murders happening in his sleepy little town are actually the result of a werewolf. A sharp contrast to the majority of horror movies being released at the time, Silver Bullet was not filled with sex crazed teenagers being killed off one by one. If you can imagine the concept, this horror movie actually tries to highlight the love of family and unbreakable spirit of youth. This is most definitely shown in the relationship between the character Marty and his sister and uncle. That said, this movie is not lacking in the scare department either. There are several sequences in this movie to make even the most jaded of horror fans jump in anticipation. And the best part of this film is: it's always fun to watch! How many movies can guarantee that? So as a movie, Silver Bullet will bring constant entertainment. Unfortunately as a DVD release, the entertainment quotient is only marginal. Silver Bullet was actually released on DVD in 2001 for countries belonging to Region 2 (U.K.) and with a few items that are not released on the U.S./Canadian release. Those features being: the original movie trailer and director commentary by Daniel Attias. Though those great features are not on this release, we are benefitted with Dolby Sterio, Widescreen/Letterbox, Chapter Selection, Close Captioning and subtitles in English and French. So although I'm overjoyed that I get to see this great movie in DVD quality and sound, I'm also from the camp that expects movies that are released on DVD to supply the viewing audience with special features that are not normally included on a general video release. ie. original trailer, actor/director commentary, cast bios, behind the scenes/making of featurette, deleted scenes, interviews, etc. It's because of this that I hesitantly give the DVD release only 4 stars instead of 5.