This program is nothing less than outstanding.  I have personally sat though every minute of this program and I will tell you that this program is the best thing you can do for your kids or yourself.  If you are frustrated seeing your child agonizing over and over in their Algebra class or you struggled with Algebra in the past and now need it to get the degree you always dreamed of, then you could not make a better choice than to get this series.

I cannot believe how clearly he explains each section.  One of the reasons people struggle with Algebra is that Algebra builds on the section before, therefore if you get hung up and lost on a section you quickly get frustrated because you feel yourself being left behind.  That will not happen if you have this DVD series.  This program is a step by step walk you through the SYSTEM showing you how to work the problems.  If you don't understand something it is as easy as re-watching it until you master it.  Each section is short enough so that you will have time to review it.

Upon completion you will not only be able to work the problems you will own the subject.  I no longer look at Algebra as a "MATH" class.  You already have all the math you need to be successful in this subject.  I now look at it as a puzzle using numbers that has specific step by step rules that when applied properly lets you solve it and move on to the next level, much in the way you move to the next level in a video game with new and different challenges.  With the doors that are opened by having a good understanding of math and the ever increasing cost of a higher education, buying this program to me is not only a great investment it's a no brainer.  I will be buying more of Jason Gibson's Tutor classes!

I would also like to add that the Companion Worksheets that are offered are a must.  It is a great way to check your proficiency in each section of this course giving you the confidence that you own the material.  It spells out step by step on how to arrive to the answer, giving you yet another tool to master this subject.