Final Destrination 3 is a very intense and gruesome movie.  I did enjoy it, bit there was my disappointments.  When the movie finished I though that if there wasn't the first two Final Destinations then this movie could stand alone.  All it was in the end was new characters in a different situation.  No new surprise, theme or plot change.  If you haven't seen the first two, you can watch this movie without being confused or missing information.  You'll understand everything.  The only time it refers to the other movies is once and it's the first Final Destination.  The crash and deathtraps are what I was looking forward to the most.  Overall, I was upset with the roller coaster crash and most of the killings didn't get to me.  When watching the coaster crash I wasn't into it as I was with the car accident in FD2.  My mouth was opened the whole time during that scene in Final Destination 2 because it was so intense.  With FD3, not even a reaction that made me think that I shouldn't get on a roller coaster for awhile.  For those who have seen it, how did the video camera that got dropped get hooked onto the track the way it did?  I'm pretty sure the strap from the camera couldn't do that.  Now for the deaths.  I was thinking since the same director and writer was doing this movie it was going to be interesting, more Rube Golberg crafted.  I was wrong.  The only death that comes into mind from FD3, which is my favorite from this movie, is the hardware store death.  It reminded me of the best killing out of the three movies, Miss Lewton's death.  It was crafted extremely well and that's what I was hoping for.  That's what made Final Destination intense.  You didn't know what was going to kill her.  In FD3, you could predict what was going to happen.  The pictures kind of helped, which was a new element to the movie instead of everyday signs.  I think the filmakers just wanted the movie to be more gory this time and not worry on how the victims die.  It was also very confusing at times because things would happen so fast that you couldn't tell what and how they were killed.  The workout scene in peticular just had me confused.  Where did those metal blocks come from?

In the end as an FD fan I liked it.  But we all know that Final Destination was the best one.  FD3 is my second favorite, then FD2 at the end.  Final Destination 3 had better acting and was paced well then the second one.  If you have seen the first two and are skeptical about this one, go see.  Everyone has there own opinion to movies.

Also, the tanning bed scene is so graphic and torturing that you can't look away.  It should've been cut a little bit.  Be prepared and don't be eating your popcorn during that section!