Rob Zombie's Halloween has breathed new life into the series for me.  It is in my opinion, that many people don't like this version of Halloween, simply because it is not the original.  Many people feel as though "classic" movies should be left alone.  However, for those who can accept that classics are not some sacred piece of work that can never be touched, this version of Halloween has a lot to offer on its own.

Unlike the original Halloween, this version of Halloween gives us some insight into Michael Myers' past, while taking a few liberties from the original.

In the original Halloween, it is kind of implied that Michael Myers came from a normal family, and for some unexplained reason he decided to murder his sister.  Then the story fast forwards 15 years.  In Zombie's Halloween, Michael Myers comes from a "white trash" dysfunctional family.  His mother is a stripper, his step-father is verbally abusive, and his older sister is neglectful and self-centered.  At school, Myers is bullied by older, bigger students.

As the story progresses, we learn that Michael shows some psychopathic symptoms, such as the enjoyment of harming and killing animals while showing no remorse.

In this re-imagining of the original, we even get to see Michael during his time in the mental institution, and we witness the character drift further into the "darkness" and become more evil.  Another thing I liked, was we get to see how Michael got his mask (we even find out why he wears a mask).  In the original, Michael escapes the mental institution, stole a random mask at a hardware store, and that's that.  In this version of Halloween, the mask actually kind of has a story of its own.

Eventually the story essentially picks up where the original Halloween starts, and in fact, many of the scenes are re-created nearly shot for shot.  This has turned off many, but for me, I actually like it.  It kinda brought everything full circle from him being certified into the mental institution, to his escape, and then to where things started in the original Halloween.

Many people also didn't like how "human" Michael Myers seems in this version of Halloween.  I take what they mean by that is, we know too much of the character.  Where in the original, he was a killer who just kinda showed up out of nowhere and started killing for no apparent reason.  However, I also disagree with this.  In Zombie's Halloween, Michael Myers is scarier than he has ever been.  He is very scary.  For the very fact that there could be a real life "Michael Myers" among us.  He isn't just some supernatural killer who only shows up in nightmares.  And he isn't some mindless, unstoppable zombie with a machete.  Michael Myers could be among us.  There could very well be someone who has suffered severe trauma at some point in life, who is being consumed by emotional darkness.  Hopefully not, but the possibly is could very easily happen.

Overall, if your a purist, then this movie will only disappoint.  However, if you like Halloween, but can accept that this movie is a new movie, not a sequel to the last Halloween, and not meant to be a direct re-make of the original, then this movie should be pleasantly entertaining. I consider it the best of the Halloween movies so far.