Released in the late 80's, The Lost Boys transcends all horror movies of that era, and proves much more memorable. It gives you that irreplaceable feeling that only the 80's movies can provide. With seriously hardcore style, a great soundtrack and clever punch lines, The Lost Boys makes any night in, a great night in.

Schumacher has utilised horror, comedy, action and drama to create this masterpiece. There is just enough gore to satisfy horror fans, but not too much to repulse the rest of us. The humour is not in-your-face like other comedies; The Lost Boys doesn't try to be funny, it just is. There's plenty of vamp-on-vamp action and special effects that don't seem to have aged much (yes, Star Wars fan can watch this and not be nauseated).

You probably know the storyline, so I won't go into the details. Basically, the new kid in town, Michael starts hanging around the wrong crowd, in the hope of getting a girl. Unfortunately, they give him blood to drink and he is forced to be like them - creatures of the night. We briefly see Michaels struggle with his new identity, and he doesn't like it much. So, his younger brother and two self-proclaimed `vampire experts' try to find and destroy the head vampire in order to return Michael back to his normal state. The rest is all blood spurts, garlic necklaces, holy water, staking and one-liners.

What I love about this movie is that 80's feeling it gives me. Schumacher realised that style was the key to setting The Lost Boys apart and he completely saturates in style. The soundtrack, clothes, actors are brilliantly combined, so that, watching The Lost Boys 20 years later, you still remember distinctly what the 80's was. You'll always find visual candy infused in every scene. From the opening ocean and city scene, with Cry Little Sister, to the colourful boardwalks buzzing with activity. From ultra-buff Tim Capello jamming out to I Still Believe on his sax at the concert, to the comic bookstore. Watch it, absorb it, savour it.

The soundtrack boasts such hits as `Cry Little Sister,' which makes the opening scene hypnotic in a sense. `Good Times' (INXS) and `Walk This Way' (Aerosmith) lighten up the hardcore scenes. `Laying Down the Lay' (INXS) and `I Still Believe' (Capello) truly make you feel as if you were right there, in the movie, in the 80's.

The DVD features are most impressive. Here's a run down on my favourites:

The Retrospective Documentary is entertaining. Schumacher always is great to hear from and takes up in depth, into the movie's production, casting, etc.

The Return of Sam and the Frog Brothers allows you to switch between Corey Haim, Corey Feldman and Jamison Newlanders commentaries of their scenes together. However, Haim is quite boring here, he mostly just tells you what was going on in the scene ( as if you didn't know anyway). "The 2 Coreys" takes a look at how they met, their friendship etc, good for those hardcore Corey duo fans.

In "The Lost Scenes" you get to see 15 or so twenty second cuts. It is interesting to see the other direction Schumacher could have taken the movie in.

However, if you want it all, and I mean IT ALL, purchase the Lost Boys today. If you want the cute actors, gore, humour, action, galore, get it now. It serves great for watching with friends and its one of those timeless classics that you'll never get sick of watching. Guaranteed to bring guffaws, tension and reminiscent feelings of the 80's every time. A must for all 80's fans.