Most Americans understand and regard American Cinema as the definition of cinema because we can all relate to it, and quite frankly we understand American culture more so than any other culture.  It is our nature.  Cyclo is an example of of what defines cinema in Vietnam...because it translates Vietnamese culture to screen.  Yes it is dark, yes circumstances are very depressing.  These conditions are extreme to the point that many Americans don't believe they are real and therefore don't care to make the effort to understand.  If you understand Vietnamese culture at all, then you will understand this film.  The film will make sense and will not be a scattered senseless conglomerate of troubling scenes and character revelation.  There is indeed a very strong, seamless plot.  Now if you don't understand Vietnamese culture, or the cultures of most third world countries in general, all of the above might apply.  American culture is not the only culture, and certainly not the only truth.  The story in cyclo is indeed very true to life for Vietnamese people.  This film is raw, brutally honest all the while presenting this truth with a refreshingly original, edgy style.  The presentation does not dilute the depth of the story or the characters' circumstances.  The story certainly doesn't romanticize and glorify the culture and certainly is not fodder for attracting tourists, but it is however very true to the culture and reflects many lives of Vietnamese people.  This is a movie from someone who understands and feels what it is like to be Vietnamese and live in these conditions.  Watching this movie takes you on that trip, lets you feel like you've been to Vietnam not as a tourist, but as a poor Vietnamese person struggling to make ends meet in a mediocre existence.  Life there is simple, being able to eat and have family around is enough to make many happy and content as it is hard enough with the poverty to be able to feed a family.  It is rare that movies can take viewers on such a trip and let them feel conent with simple needs and desires.  If you are willing to open your mind and learn about Vietnamese culture through this movie, then I beleive you will be taken on such a trip.