I am a huge fan of The Who and when my bass player told me about this movie that was on the market I had to get it.  Last Christmas it was a gift from my sister.  This box set is 2 dvds.  The first one being the movie Amazing Journey which tells the story of The Who from their childhood right up to the release of Endless Wire.  Townshed and Daltry are interviewd quite a bit through this movie and Townshend talks about how he grew up with the war going on and Roger talks about how he met John Entwhistle and invited him into his band The Detours.  Townshend also talks about his fasination with Meher Baba.  How he looked at him as a spirtual guidence.  There's a good amount of live footage in this movie as well as interviews with managers past and present, other musicians including Sting, The Edge, Steve Jones, Eddie Vedder and Noel Gallagher. I would have liked it better if they talked more about the albums.  Albums from Who's Next up through It's Hard get very little talk and would have liked to hear them elaborate on the albums more.  The only mention of Endless Wire is the very last scene of the movie when on the screen it says in 2006 The Who released Endless Wire.  thier first album in 24 years.  I would have liked to have really heard more about the ideas on the new Who album since I had been waiting forever for them to put out a follow up to It's Hard (see my review for Endless Wire).  Disc 2 is 6 different films titled 6 Quick Ones.  The first 4 focus on the band members individualy.  Who Art You is a film focusing on what Townshend describes as auto destructive art.  And the last one  Who's Back shows them in the studio recording a new song for their Then And Now greatest hits album, Real Good Looking Boy, with Greg Lake on bass.  And as a bonus feature on disc 2 an extreemly old film of them playing at the Railway Hotel when they were called The High Numbers and is the earliest footage known to exist of them on film.  The band are still kids at this time.  This is one of the best Who dvds on the market and The Who has a ton of dvds out there.  If you are a music dvd collector you will really want this in your collection.  This is one of the best, if not the best, Who dvds on the market right now.