I first started watching Monk when the second season aired on TV, and from the first few minutes of the episode I was watching I could already tell that this was a show I was going to be watching for a long time!  I've never laughed more in my life.  Season three was even more fun than the first two.  It's true that this is the season where Bitty Schram's character Sharona leaves the show; while sad it hardly makes a difference.  Her replacement Traylor Howard, who plays Natalie Teeger, is not as comical a character as Sharona Fleming, but it is a minor thing.  The true focus of the show is Tony Shalhoub and his hilarious portrayal of Adrian Monk.  I myself suffered from a minor case of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, and while it was not as extreme as Monk's case I can still relate to the character in a way.  I have trouble understanding why people don't like this season as much as they do the others.  I suppose it would have to be that they disagree with my opinion about Bitty Schram's character.  I will admit she was a much more humorous character then Natalie Teeger's character, but my true appreciation for the show is Tony Shalhoub.  Bitty Schram, in my opinion, got too greedy.  She wanted more money and the show refused to pay more.  I will admit I was a little disappointed, but only a little. It seems that Schram's character was important to other fans of the show.  I also heard some exclaim that they were disappointed with the last episode in this season "Mr. Monk and the Kid," which was something I could not understand at all.  As far as I'm concerned it was the best episode in the series.  Monk temporarily adopts a toddler of about 2 or 3 years and then in the end is forced to give him up.  It was so sad, but it was a great episode nevertheless.  I heard others say that they wanted the last episode to have something to do with Trudy's murder (Trudy is the departed wife of Adrian Monk).  They already did that on the last episode of Season 2 and frankly it would have been boring and redundant to do it again.  In summation if you want this season to be like the other two seasons then it is likely you won't enjoy Season 3, but if you are like me and you want to see "Monk" in a different way then I definitely recommend buying this.

Here is a list of the Episodes From Season 3:
01)Mr. Monk Takes Manhattan
02)Mr. Monk and the Panic Room
03)Mr. Monk and the Blackout
04)Mr. Monk Gets Fired
05)Mr. Monk Meets the Godfather
06)Mr. Monk and the Girl Who Cried Wolf
07)Mr. Monk and the Employee of the Month
08)Mr. Monk and the Game Show
09)Mr. Monk Takes His Medicine
10)Mr. Monk and the Red Herring
11)Mr. Monk V.S. the Cobra
12)Mr. Monk Gets Cabin Fever
13)Mr. Monk Gets Caught In Traffic
14)Mr. Monk Goes to Vegas
15)Mr. Monk and the Election
16)Mr. Monk and the Kid