Why there are two separate reveiw I don't know - but look to the other set of reviews for "How the West was Won".  The other set accurately tells you about the DVD and the BLU-RAY versions of this great American film.

How the West was Won, is a story of our move to expand across this continent in the 1800's.  There are thrilling scenes, raftings down the Ohio River, Buffalo Stampedes, and Coal Fired Steam locomotives, all set to glorious music, music taken from folk songs through classical composers, the best that America had to offer.

And the stars, there are plenty of them in this movie.  Hollywood's finest at the time it was filmed; among them Debbie Reynolds, Jimmy Stewart, and even John Wayne.

The film is rich in history telling the tale of two sides of a family, one that stayed in Ohio, and one that ventured west to San Fransico.  Along the way the story of America is told through their eyes.  When this film was done, it was filmed in Cinerama, a three camera process that enveloped the viewer in the film.  I was fortunate to see this film and one other, The Tales of the Brother's Grimm, the only two Cinerama Films ever made, in all their glory, in CINERAMA, and I can tell you that it was indeed spectacular.  I felt that I was in the picture!  I saw it as a child, and when the buffalo scene was enfolding on the screen, I remember ducking as the buffalo stormed over and across the screens around me; it was that thrilling!

Too bad that didn't continue with the process, but I think it was too expensive to make, and not many theaters could accomodate three projectors projecting onto three separate screens simultaneously.  But I tell you, that to see it live, in person was absolutely awesome.  I wish they could revive it so people today can experience it for themselves.  The beauty of the film, together with it's awe inspiring music made such a thrilling combination, that at the time when I saw it, I was most proud to be an American!

Now, I did buy the regular DVD version of this film and I can tell you that though the sound was good, the film itself was a mess.  Projector lines were in place and it made the film horrible to watch.  But, from what I've been reading on this site and others, the Blu-Ray vesion is wonderful - Warner Brother's took their time and restored the film in all it's glory - they got rid of all the projector lines, so you can't see them, all you see is the SMILE Version of the film - a type of Widescreen to show that full view of the Cinerama Version.  It's all that they could do to have it restored accurately for us viewers at home.  For you must remember, that Cinerama was a CURVED SCREEN - you sat in the middle of it - and were enveloped by the film.  So the only way they can show it is with this "Smile".

So, today, I'm going to order it, and patiently await for it to arrive.  When I get it, I'll load it into my Blu-Ray player, sit back and watch it on my 60" Sony DLP HD Television.  I expect to be amazed, but I am aware of the limitations of the process.  Still, I know it will be much better than the DVD version - that version was a piece of Buffalo Dung.