Well, it is a departure from the grist mill of everyday life we endure day in and day out.  Some "Feel Good" movies are better than others . . . too much sugar coating makes one lethargic.  "Sleepless" is just right.  Odd that in the 2 or 3 bios I have seen on Tom Hanks, Sleepless In Seatle is never mention in his filmography.  Mr Hanks probably thinks it beneath "Private Ryan" or others he has garnered awards for.  It is not!!  Sleepless is cast perfectly, from supporting slots filled so well by Ms O'Donnell, Rob Reiner and David Hyde Pierce . . . and the two leads with fantastic chemistry, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.  Absent foul language and sexual exploits

You know the story line . . . who does not?  This script has more memorized one liners used around our house than most any other film we enjoy.  The opening scenes are so sad . . . the father and son at the grave of their wife and mother, and the friends and family trying to help . . . caring so much about this good man and his son.  One immediatly starts thinking that the entire movie is doomed to walk this dark and emotional path.  But NO!  A change of venue opens up a refreshing new tact in the story, a chance call in encounter with a radio female "Frasier Crane" who's listening audience includes Annie Reed (Meg Ryan) from Baltimore, who is engaged to Walter (Bill Pullman) who is allergic to everything and a very VERY nice man.  Actually, Bill Pullman's characture is one of the things this film does perfectly!  Instead of this supporting role being portrayed as a guy we don't like, a thug or an idiot, Walter is really a great guy!  Anyway, things are set in motion from this point on, and the film is simply "magic" as the storyline points out!  Absent profanity and sexual content . . . . well, save be for a scene or 2 like this:

::::: Sam baldwin:  I'll tell you what I'm doing this weekend, I'm getting laid. It's the 1990's and nobody's getting laid. I'm the only man in America who's getting laid this weekend and I haven't been laid that much. Six girls in college, maybe seven.
[sees Jonah standing in the doorway]
Sam Baldwin: How long have you been standing there?
Jonah Baldwin: Forever.
Sam Baldwin: What did you just hear me say?
Jonah Baldwin: Six girls in college, maybe seven.
Sam Baldwin: Seven... EIGHT! Mary Kelly.
Jonah Baldwin: [holds Annie's letter] This is the one I like!

This film does what it was designed to do, that is to be familiar and yet rich with surprises.  Buy it and watch it often.  You will like the way you feel after!