Although Todd Haynes' intentions were no doubt very nice (i.e., to make a statement against racism and homophobia) this film is ultimately as bland and as risk-averse as those other two vastly overrated pieces of blockbuster Academy bait, THE HOURS and AMERICAN BEAUTY. 
AMERICAN BEAUTY explains to us how deathly life in the suburbs is, and adds the shocking twist - wait for it - that Mr. Suburban Respectability is actually a repressed [man]! THE HOURS explains to us (in humourless detail) how deathly life in the suburbs is, and adds the shocking twist - wait for it - that Mrs. Suburban Respectability is actually a repressed [woman]! With FAR FROM HEAVEN, we are on familiar ground: life in the suburbs is deathly dull and - wait for it - Mr. Suburban Respectability is actually a repressed [man]! 
Sure, originality is only one of many possible virtues a film can possess. Telling the same story over again can be extremely worthwhile if there is something new in the telling. But here there simply isn't anything to justify Haynes' limp refusal to strike any new narrative or thematic ground. The characters are sympathetic, but only because of their status, not any internal qualities they possess. We have the Closeted [prefers company of men] Executive, trapped by circumstances. We have the Repressed Housewife Seeking Something Different, trapped by circumstances. And, most patronising of all, we have the Decent, Hardworking Educated Black Man, also trapped by circumstances. The acting is adequate, with Dennis Haysbert the only stand out. Julianne Moore confirms her position, IMHO, as the female Kevin Spacey, i.e. a tortured yet smugly content soul who has insight into the human condition that mere mortals could only dream of achieving. ... Dennis Quaid gives a "bold" and "daring" "breakthrough" performance ' i.e., he plays a [prefers to be with men] man. Yawn. Perhaps worst of all, as in THE HOURS, anything approaching a sense of humour is again AWOL - all we get is leaden pomposity. If Haynes had approached this as a satire rather than the ploddingly serious and self-important manifesto it turned out to be, the film might have at least been entertaining.
Although FAR FROM HEAVEN is supposed to be a daring expose of the reality of suburban life, the only people who I can imagine would find it provocative are the most hardcore of suburbanites. Can anyone really suggest that new ground has been broken with this film, or that any risks were taken? Didn't think so. As a matter of fact, my prediction is that Jerry Bruckheimer, in a boost to enhance his low standing with the Academy, will soon be pitching a film that involves a group of 27th century space cowboys living in the suburbs of Mars who, during an invasion by creatures from another dimension, find themselves trapped by circumstances and forced to confront boredom, hypocrisy, ... repression and closeted [desires]. After all, as Haynes has shown, it really doesn't require much imagination or courage to make a film that recycles these ideas yet again - and the Academy will invariably worship you for doing just that.
If you are interested in seeing a bold, confrontational and innovative film that is willing to take enormous risks to confront the audience's notions of [social] correctness, social propriety and suburban complacency, check out the shocking, disturbing and hilarious HAPPINESS, by Todd Solondz. Unfortunately, it wasn't nominated for any Oscars so of course most of you won't bother, regardless of how willing to confront the banality of suburban life you might consider yourself to be. 
I would give this film 1/5 but it deserves an extra star for all the oh-so-pretty colours.