This movies centers around Michael Connolly and Rory O'Shea.  When we first meet Michael, who suffers from cerebral palsy, which effects his speech and uses an electric wheelchair to get around, he's sitting watching the world go by then into his life comes Rory.  Rory suffers from Duchene's muscular dystrophy, which allows him to only move two fingers of his right hand and his head, and we see that Rory is all bad attitude and cheeky wit.  He soon turns things around at The Carrigmore Home for the Disabled much to the dismay of the head of the home, Eileen.  He blares his music in the middle of the night, he is rude to Eileen and Annie, the head nurse, and drives Michael crazy by showing up and bugging him.  It is during a therapy session that Michael learns that Rory can understand everthing that he says and this starts a friendship that neither of them expected.  Rory starts showing Michael there is more to life then sitting in front of a window watching the world go by.  (This is shown by them going off on their own to a pub, nearly getting into a bar fight, meeting Siobhan for the first time and getting into a night club by using wit and cunning.)  You also see there is a difference in their family life.  Rory's father, a middle class man, is loving, caring and is very concern about his son where Michael's father, who is a high class lawyer, and Michael's hero, has never come to see him and has just abandoned him.  Seeing that Rory has been turned down three times to get housing, Michael decides to apply and turns down speech aides in place of having Rory come to live with him as his interpreter.  They get their way and have trouble finding the right place.  They turn to the one person Rory thinks will help them.  Michael's father.  They get housing and hire Siobhan to help them.  A friendship blooms between the three of them and Michael falls in love for the first time.  Rory also falls in love but things turn bad when they find out that Siobhan doesn't love either of them.  Michael and Rory's friendship nearly ends but Rory convinces Michael not to give up and it takes a crisis to put their friendship back together.

This film was very well done and James McAvoy and Steven Robertson did an excellent job.