This review is for the unrated extended blu-ray version. Plenty of spoilers so read at your own discretion. Although, my expectations for this movie were pretty low to begin with, since the movie wasn't directed by James Cameron and T3 wasn't as good as T2, I was at least expecting something that would extend the terminator storyline and mythology from the television show The Sarah Connor Chronicles (which was an excellent TV series) and from the comics. Unfortunately, the people who wrote the script for this movie and the director, McG are completely ignorant and clueless when it comes to the entire Terminator canon. Nothing in this movie makes any sense when you consider the previous three films. It's like these people just threw out everything from the first three films and then started making up stuff as they went along without any thought into what came before or the history that Cameron created.

First, in this movie the machines all know who John Connor is which makes no sense if you follow the history. The audience is so used to the idea that Skynet knows all about Connor that this error usually passes over them without any thought, but what they forget is that only the machines from the future know who Connor is and only because of what he WILL accomplish in the future. He hasn't done ANYTHING yet. All the terminators from the previous films were from the future while the machines in this movie are in the present. The machines have just wiped out most of humanity and now sees them nothing more than a bunch of insects to finish exterminating. Connor at this point is just another insect so this idea that he is somehow important to them is ludicrous. Don't give me this crap about him being seen as a prophecy or messiah either.

Second mistake is that the machines all know who Kyle Reese is which provides one of the biggest plot holes in this movie and goes against even common sense. The entire purpose of the first movie was that the machines didn't know who the father was so their only alternative was to terminate the mother which is why they built the damn time machine in the first place, in order to wipe out his entire existence. In fact information about the father was so secretive that not even Kyle Reese knew it. If the machines know who Kyle Reese is then why the hell would they even bother building the time machine when Connor's very existence depends on it? How the hell are they going to explain that in future sequels if there will be one? This is a massive disaster of a plot hole that can't be overlooked and can't be explained. It's idiotic. And don't give me this crap about alternate timelines or other theories on time travel that's different from the one used in Back to the Future. The rules of time travel and the theory used from the first trilogy have already been in place which is the Back to the Future scenario so you just don't make up new rules and change the canon to suit your logic. That's similar to that idiotic scene from AVP Requiem when the Predalien lays eggs inside pregnant women for the sole purpose of increasing the alien infestation. Only the damn queen lays eggs, stupid! And that still wouldn't explain why Skynet builds the time machine in the future either!

Third plothole is when Skynet captures Kyle Reese they don't decide to execute him right then and there but instead have some kind of elaborate plot in order to lure Connor to execute him. Does this make any sense? What the hell was McG (what the hell kind of name is this) and the writers thinking when they came to this scene? Forget about your stupid theories on time travel when you can't apply it here (see second plot hole). This is so blatantly stupid that words can't describe the idiocy behind it. Who writes this stuff and not see the inherent problems with it?

Fourth problem was when Connor arrives the T800, instead of breaking Connor's neck decides to play ball with him by throwing him around. I thought T800s have detailed files on human anatomy and how to efficiently terminate humans. You'd think that having their biggest sought out target within their grasp they'd kill him as quickly as possible and with a gun instead of a naked unarmed Arnold.

Fifth problem comes at the end when they need to do a heart transplant on John, using Marcus's heart. This scene was supposedly changed due to leakage of the original script but it still doesn't excuse it's sloppiness. This scene requires that Marcus is an acceptable donor, plenty of immunosuppressive drugs, a heart surgeon and a team of anesthetics and not a veterinarian, and a sterile environment instead of the open desert. I was cringing at this scene and thank God it didn't last very long.

Now as for the movie itself, if you are completely ignorant of the previous three films this movie would be somewhat entertaining for the action scenes alone which were very thrilling. But the audience doesn't really care about any of the characters except for maybe Marcus so the movie become nothing more than one action set piece after another. There's really no character development or insight into who these people are and why we should care about them. What made T2 and other movies like it so successful is that we get to know the characters where the audience have an emotional investment so we are concerned about them and anxiously curious about what will happen next. The action is there to supplant the characters not drive them. This movie should have been about how John Connor becomes leader of the Resistance and help humanity come back from the brink of extinction instead of this goofball storyline filled with plot holes. I won't bother going into the special features on the blu-ray or the deleted scenes which have already been discussed. I'll just add that the video transfer is impeccable and the audio is excellent as well and is what is expected from blu-ray by now.

In conclusion, if you are expecting forgetful mindless action, explosions with killer robots, and don't necessarily care about character development or plot then this movie is adequate. But if you are a fan of the terminator franchise then you will be sorely disappointed from the glaring plot holes, mistakes, and literal lack of respect for the mythology and the fan base. It's comparable to George Lucas using midichlorians to explain the Force. Much like having top tiered actors in The Phantom Menace, not even Christian Bale aka Batman can save this turkey. Time to terminate this franchise or return it back to Cameron.