At the urging of a co-worker back in October of 1984 I purchased an album called Some Great Reward by a band with a funny name. A teenager at the time, I tended to like any music with synth's in it or any kind of weird sounds. Needless to say, before the needle on my turn table plowed through track one, Something To Do, I had a new favorite band. In the twenty six years between then and now Depeche Mode occupy an elevated status above simply being my favorite band. I like many other bands a lot and collect everything they record, but not one of them has as consistently elated me with nearly everything they release the way Depeche Mode has. Like many other fans I was grief stricken upon hearing SOFAD, but even that album started to be regarded as being simply another great DM album as time passed. It's always a question of time. SOFAD does hold one major distinction for me to this day; it is the only DM album to have two songs that I don't like at all. But the rest of the album is mostly brilliant.
  I couldn't find this DVD in an actual store the day that it came out so I had to order and wait for it. I became a little concerned reading all of the negativity being heaped upon it by other fans. Much to my relief as I sit here watching it for the third time in 24 hours I can't, with all due respect to other reviewers, find but one thing wrong in the performance. What is it? Well, as the intro to In Your Room begins I was expecting them to play the utterly brilliant album version, but after the intro they settle into the utterly wretched and disgusting single version of the song. The album version still sends shivers down my spine when played at the right volume and is quite possibly the most moving and heart-felt song Martin has ever written and that's saying a lot.
  As for the complaint's about the vocals; Dave's voice has always been a little nasal at the beginning of the shows, and this is no exception, but really? It is not bad at all. Consider this as well; In Chains isn't the easiest DM song to sing. That he pulls it off as the first song of the performance is a testament to his continuing metamorphasis from a front man to a singer capable of drenching each song with more emotion and skill. Over the course of the last three or four albums he has really expanded his abilities as a singer. Nearly every song in this set is performed with the intensity many bands can only work up for the encores which explains why the set ends with a slow number sung by Martin and Dave at the end of the runway in the audience. A very funny moment occurs when Dave forgets his line and Martin laughs out loud with his distinctive laugh. During Never Let Me Down Again when the crowd waves their arms in unison as they have been doing for over two decades now I found myself choked up a bit. When Martin performed Home and the crowd continued to sing it well after Dave had come back onto the stage seemed very spontaneous and it was very moving. This crowd, mostly very handsome Spanish men, react to nearly every song as if Spain had just won the World Cup. The crowd is very into this show and they add to this being a great way for those of us who couldn't attend the shows to experience it. The crowds reaction is often very moving. I'm glad they experienced it because they appreciated it so much that I'm not even jealous. This is as close to perfect as a concert DVD gets.