Highlander II: The Quickening 1991/90min/R **
Something went wrong here in Highlander II: The Quickening Highlander wasn't really considered a classic by all critics but to me it was. We had a 16th century warrior become immortal in 1586 and now 400 years later he finally defeats Kurgen and clames the prize of becoming mortal in 1986. Now we go into the future of 2024 where the Earth is now covered by a Sheild (which was created in 1999) due to what happened to The Ozone Layer breakdown. When Connor MacCloud was watching the Opera (very well done) he flashsback to a place called Planet Zeist??? Now just wait a minute is this film saying there aliens??? Now that just dosen't make any sense at all. The only reason why i give it 2 stars was some decent performances,and somes good effects. Otherwise the story and the plot are absoutely ludricous and stupid.
Highlander II: The Renegade Version 109min R ***1/2
After hearing some good reviews about the Renegade version i decided to check it out. When i watched boy man this film was pretty darn good it clears things up. Instead of The Planet Zeist
now its refered to as A Very Long Time Ago (sorta of what Stars Wars would start out of). So my guess is that there from the past in alternate time period instead of another planet. Now that makes sense. I also noticed with in the film some dialouges have been cut out of the Quickening version and added new scenes to it. Some of the sheilds FX were redone now there more like orange looking rather than purple in The Quickening. CGI effects were used as well like the new computer screen. Some of the scenes have been restored to the correct position like the 1999 launch of the Sheild, and a pretty good scene were Macloud visits Brenda while she is dying and she's one of the reasons why he built the sheild in the first place. Some other scenes added like where it shows Alan and Connor discussing about the radiation above the sheild is normal, and giving him the coordinates to get above the sheild. They ended up doing so and its true the Ozone Layer has repaired itself and the sheild has to come down. When the movie was almost over Connor immediately destroys the sheild and The Earth is no longer covered by the Sheild any longer.
I didn't really completely list the other scenes but i'm sure you'll understand them better and for 19 minutes of additional footage that's pretty good for a film that went wrong. Plus it explains more about what Connor and Ramiez are, Why Connor built the sheild, and why the sheild had to come down.
The DVD is of good quality i just wish that it was anamorphic instead of Letterboxed but hey its not bad i give it a 4. The Dolby Digital 5.1 (AC-3) is pretty decent though it sometimes is to low pitched in the explosions but hey its all good its a 4 as well. The Featurette is pretty good (but note its actually 17mins and 57sec. long not 22min like it said), and the still photos are a bit of a bore they go by fast so i would press Slow on your remote to look at them. The movie itself still won't live up to the original because it somehow doesn't click on me that well but overall skip the Quickening and get The Renegade Version now you won't regert it.