"Anonymous" is like a rich opera or stage drama where the narrative, events, ideas, source literature, emotions and word/music architecture yield up endless revelations, discoveries and aftershocks. Like Shake-speare's "Hamlet," Tom Stoppard's "Arcadia" and "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead," Richard Wagner's "Der Ring des Nibelungen,"  Roland Emmerich's "Anonymous" bestows exponential rewards of poetry, politics, history, drama, music, metaphor, allegory, leitmotiv and narrative architecture.

"All art is political...Otherwise it would just be decoration." So says Edward deVere, 17th Earl of Oxford, "our Shake-speare" in "Anonymous." Poetry, drama and theater genius. The "stigma of print" for the nobility. Puritan hatred of theaters, plays, actors. "Words, words, words" vs. swords. The "policy of plays." Authorial pseudonyms. Italy immersion, obsession. Greek and Latin sources. Tudor propaganda and chronicles. Spying, censorship, Tower, torture.  Succession intrigues and  politics. These topics, politics and events are skillfully distilled and woven by "Anonymous" screenwriter John Orloff and director Emmerich into intricate, provocative content.

Truly memorable scenes abound in "Anonymous." Our first and last views of Vanessa Redgrave's aged, regal Elizabeth I are visually haunting. The "Henry V" public stage debut is magical, spellbinding - even more so as we see and hear it along with four mesmerized, dumb-struck Elizabethan authors and Oxford. Compelling too is the scene where Oxford tells his wife why he must write, why he cannot stop. Oxford is ... what he is. To his wife, he is possessed. To Sir Robert Cecil (a hunchback, Oxford's Machiavellian brother-in-law, chief counselor to Elizabeth I and the likely puppetmeister of the King James' succession), Oxford is a threat, a menace, an embarrassment. When Cecil vexes Oxford with his last secrets, tormenting Oxford about his career failures and what might have been, the great author's personal disappointment, decay and tragedy is molten. Oxford's earthly release from his obsession occurs at the emotional climax of the movie: de Vere's final words with Ben Jonson who is admonished not to betray Shake-speare's plays, notwithstanding BJ's small view  of Stratford actor Shaksper.  Finally, the concluding look on Cecil's face after the newly crowned King James lisps his love of theater is priceless, unforgettable.

When first seeing "Anonymous," linear processors may struggle initially to keep pace with the tapestry of events, information and time shifts. By movie's end, however, the info matrix fills and key narrative dots connect about "our Shake-Speare" -- igniting our emotions and provoking our intellectual curiosity to learn more. Ever wonder why Elizabeth I would name as her successor the son of her dangerous Stuart cousin, Mary Queen of Scots, she who plotted unsuccessfully Eliza's assassination? Or why the actor Shaksper, putative playwright from Stratford, was not jailed, mutilated or hanged for his politically audacious and incendiary plays and poems? You will not be alone in so wondering. That which flew by oddly, curiously, incomplete from Tudor history books and academic Bard orthodoxy can be revisited, retested, reshaped, savored and supplemented with this DVD and a companion Pictorial Moviebook (bought also from Amazon and recommended highly).

Yes, this film will irk fact checkers and historians. Richard III was not a hunchback. But Elizabeth's final chief counselor was. Art becomes political, Elizabethan politics became art.