Director Richard Donner has gone into his wine cellar, retrieved this vintage flick, and poured it out for today's kids who might enjoy it along with a serving of Spy Kids and Harry Potter.Now, what is a goony, they might ask? Well, in this case, it's one of seven kids who find themselves searching for buried pirate loot, and running from the villainous Fratelli family. It's Saturday-matinee serial redux; SEE the Goonies escape from Steven Spielberg death-traps and Rube Goldberg booby traps! LAUGH at the unforgettable 'Truffle Shuffle!' APPLAUD as our heroes save the day, and WISH they'd made a sequel.Donner's wine has improved with age. The rapid pacing, the unraveling mystery, the over-lapping dialogue...and the incomparable Anne Ramsey as Mama Fratelli. Ahhhh, what a great actress. She scared the lice off of me as a kid, and can still do it, sixteen years later. And Sloth, cousin to the Incredible Hulk. How much can one love a misunderstood movie mutant? And Jeff Cohen as Chunk, possibly the greatest juvenile scene-stealer in motion picture history, (although, unlike most kid actors, you WANT him to do it).OVER 21 ALERT: It's not just a kids' movie! Oh, no! There's plenty for the big kids, really! This DVD has for example, several deleted scenes, including the infamous and mysterious 'octopus' scene, subject of much discussion and speculation. Well, now you can see for yourself why it was cut...We have here also the complete two-part Cyndi Lauper "Goonies R Good Enough" music video, guest-starring the Goonies cast, the Bangles as lady pirates, the hibachi chefs, the professional wrestlers, the plastic cow, Dave and Wendy and...(drum roll)...Andre the Giant! Yes, it's all here...the 12-minute video that was almost long enough (and funny enough) to be Goonies II.But never mind all this. What the grown-ups REALLY want to see is the Director's Commentary. That's right, SEE. This special edition DVD occasionally allows you to see the stars and director chat and reminisce about the picture, and...WOW. ALL SEVEN Goonies are here! Chatting, bickering, laughing, remembering. And I KNOW you all want to see how well the Goonies aged over 16 years. Very well, actually. And it's funny to note that Corey Feldman's character was called "Mouth," as he blabs away, hogging most of the commentary himself, (with Martha Plimpton in second place for the Chatterbox award). Interestingly, Sean Astin simply gets up and walks out halfway through the movie. Why? No one could say. Perhaps that will someday be as big a mystery as the 'octopus' scene...