Most of Hitchcock's films deal with the notion of identity, whether it be mistaken identity or the pathological desire of a person to make someone into someone else. In Vertigo, obsessive love (and desire to be loved) led to the loss of a woman's identity with disastrous consequences.
In North By Northwest, the twist is not someone who turns out to be someone else, but someone who has no identity except that which is adventageous to him. "Maggie," as Thornhill (Grant) puts it, "in advertising there is no such thing as a lie; only the expedient exaggeration". This is the crux of the story and before the first 15 minutes of the picture is over, Thornhill will become a man (who never existed) in order to establish that he is not that man. Ironically, and unbeknowst to him, by doing this he is simply undercutting what could have been his sole defense.
In essence, Thornhill is doing what children will often do (after making a similar misjudgement) which is to lie rather than own up to the truth because (as Grant will say in 'Charade') "they want something and they are afraid that the truth won't get it for them." The mistake children make is not understanding the more advanced real world experience of their parents that make the flaws in the story immediately apparent.
Thornhill makes the same misjudgement.
Most of us don't really believe that prentending to be someone else is the way to achieve a desirable end. But Hitchock creates a situation in which we find ourselves accepting it, as improbably as it may seem. After all, doesn't Thornhill have friends who can vouch for his identity? Wouldn't the proper investigation of the death of Townsend (and the identifty of Kaplan) ultimately reveal the complicity of the housekeeper and the gardener? Of course. In the real world, the absurdity of the events would have become apparent in a matter of days, without the need for Thornhill to ever leave New York.
But, in fact, he does leave (and, in so doing, undercuts his own defense). His motivation is derived from his experience as an advertiser (illusionist). If he can make "people buy things they don't need" then, he is arguing, the public could very well be duped by someone with a more sinister motive. In essence, Thornhill has come to distrust his fellow man precisely because he realizes how easy it is to lie to them. His experience in the courtroom when he tries to tell the truth only reinforces this view. His only weapon is his ability to lie, so much so that he is actually able to dupe the Professor, who created the entire scenario (not for "our amusement" the Professor protests), by pretending to be honest.
Authors have argued that Hitchock was a misogynist, but North By Northwest is more than misogynistic. It is cunningly misanthropic. As Van Dam's character says, "you make this very room a theatre". In North By Northwest, most people are fools, blindly accepting what they see at face value, while all around them is actually being played out a sinister battle between good and evil. The "truth" is nothing more than what it is these players want us to believe. If Hitchcock had tried to make that point in a serious movie (like "Manchurian Candidate") it would have likely been dismissed. How much cleverer to play it as ironic humor.