It's ironic, but 'Antz' may be remembered as the last great Woody Allen comedy. Like Robin Williams in 'Alladin', Z's dialog is so quintessentially Woody Allen that it's hard to believe he didn't write or ad-lib some of it. It's also a damn sight funnier than anything Woody has made himself since I can't remember when, or anything Dreamworks made, up til 'Over the Hedge'.

Some of Z's lines to the ant psychiatrist in the opening scene alone are priceless. The world might be slightly tired of Allen playing the whiny, neurotic wimp, but in 'Antz' the character who, back in 1967, tried to hold up a bank with a stick-up note which nobody could read ("I have a Gub?") is absolutely perfect.

What's more, Allen is cast alongside Sylvester Stallone (who, incidentally, was voted worst actor of the century in the Razzie awards in 2000), and even HE comes across well. This is easily the most bizarre pairing since Mickey Rooney and Kurt Russell in 'The Fox and the Hound'. No, wait... I forgot about Ernest Borgnine and Sheena Easton... well it just goes to show that in animation, miracles can happen.

It's been said before, but it bears repeating: Antz, despite the ostensible similarity of subject matter, and similar release dates, is nothing like 'A Bug's Life'. Put simply, 'Bug's Life' is a kid's film this is an adult's film which kids will like.

The story, I suppose, is nothing remarkable:  male nobody gets princess... another parallel with 'Alladin' - but there is a social and political undercurrent to 'Antz'. If it owes a little to Disney, perhaps it owes a little to George Orwell, too.

There's something else about 'Antz': it's one of the few CGI movies where the CGI just didn't bother me at all. In 'Toy Story' I just swallowed my preference for cel animation, because the film was so undeniably good in other respects. With 'Antz', the whole thing somehow seemed outside of the normal animated genres, such that it never entered my head to wish they'd done cel animation instead. In fact I can clearly see how scenes like the 'wrecking ball' sequence wouldn't have had half the impact with conventional animation.

Visually the film is always superb, sometimes  plain stunning, especially for 'such an old' CGI.

'Antz' is straining hard to break through to greatness. Close but no cigar. It's just very good, and sadly overshadowed by the also good, but less substantial 'Bug's Life'.