I have seen both the R and Unrated version and this review speaks to both versions.  I was quite surprised to see the positive reviews of this movie. I am a big Li fan and really enjoy his movies. This movie doesn't work for me and is quite corny, borderline Van Dam'ish or (recent) Seagal movie. To know where I'm coming from, I enjoy realistic (as realistic as you can get with these movies) fighting scenes. Although exaggerated for the big screen, you can still see the basis/foundation of the Li's fighting moves which I always enjoy. I never go into these movies expecting Oscar winning plot lines and acting, but there has to be a minimal level of each to support the fighting. The problem is the contrast between Morgan Freeman and Jet Li. You can't help but wonder "What is Morgan Freeman doing in this movie?" He's a very good actor that seems so out of place (he's too good). Jet Li's acting through the transition of his character from pure animal that will wipe out an army at the snap of a finger to a soft spoken uber-kind victim is way off. There are these soft, sappy, corny scenes when Li meets up with Morgan and his "daughter" that are unwatchable...I'm on the Fast Forward button through all this (because it just went on way too long)..there is no place for the soft side of Jet Li in these movies, except to be funny, e.g., Romeo Must Die or to mourn the death of a love one which triggers a massacre. Also, writer/director never develop Li's character enough for you to sympathize or feel his pain. Of course what happened to him was bad, but it just isn't enough to tie it all together. The whole piano thing is ...well..who knows--you'll judge for yourself if you watch the movie. In the end, I shouldn't even have to think this much when I watch these movies--that's not the point. The point is butt kicking (maybe even a little comedy) and good Kung Fu. It's worth catching on cable (for the fight scenes), but it is definitely not worth owning on DVD or buying on PPV. I hate to knock a Li movie, but it hurt to watch this one...