This is one of those movies where it feels so good to feel so bad.  I didn't like this movie the first time I saw it but I think you must watch it more than once to appreciate it. For anyone that has lived in a small community like Francesa and lived on a farm and felt the isolation you can relate to this movie.  I'm not saying that justifies cheating on your spouse but you see how it could happen.  You are a lonely farmwife and a charming photographer shows up on your doorstep.  Hello!  Client Eastwood was perfect in this role and is extremely sexy.  Meryl Streep is awesome.  To me this movie isn't just a romance about Francesa and Robert although that part of the movie is excellent but also about how Francesa's children came to understand who their mother really was.  I cried as much at that point in the movie as I did when Francesa sees Robert standing in the rain and the expressions on their faces when they realize they will never see each other again. When people complain that the scenes cutting back to the kids are boring to me they are not. It tells another part of the story and brings you back to the present showing how at first the kids are angry and upset about what their mother did.  By the end of the movie they understand why she did what she did and what she gave up for them because she loved them and as her last gift to them it frees them to move on and make decisions in their own lives.  Their mother gave them the courage to take the bull by the horn and appreciate life now before it's too late.  They learn that their mother was so much more than they ever knew.  These actors were excellent also.  When Francesa receives the box in the mail from Robert and saw that he never forgot her it's almost too much to bear.  You can feel what she's thinking and what might have been.  But that, of course, would have been a different movie altogether.  This movie reminds me in some ways of The Horse Whisperer and I didn't like that movie at first either.  But the more I see both of these movies the more I learn to appreciate them.