BY LUCAS SCIBETTA

Ray teaches us to see the ability of a blind man. This movie shows the
struggles and triumphs of Ray Charles.

Ray starts as a young, African American boy growing up on a sharecropping
plantation. Already Ray was born into struggles and on top of that Ray
Charles became blind at age 7. Ray was taught to play the piano at a young
age and it grew to be his passion. Throughout the movie Ray ages and
progresses in the music world and he ended up revolutionizing the industry.
Along with music Ray also fought segregation and combined the cause with
the music industry. A large chunk of the film also revolves around Ray's drug
addiction as he struggled with heroine. That movie also dabbles into Ray's
personal life and his relationship with women as a blind man.

The cast contained many unique characters but they all supported the main
character, which of course, was Ray Charles. Ray Charles was played
by Jamie Foxx who did an outstanding job. After doing research on what
Charles was really like it has been discover that Foxx portrayed the character
of ray perfectly and he completely captured the charismatic character that
Ray Charles is. Foxx also won an Academy Award for best actor. Some of
the great supporting characters include Ray Charles' mother and his wife
who were played by Sharon Warren and Kerry Washington. These women
really added to the movie and helped the viewer understand the character
of Ray Charles when they were with him. The director of this movie was
Taylor Hackford who did a great job on capturing the role of Ray Charles and
everyone who revolved around him. This director really had a passion for
making this movie because with searching for finance, casting and shooting it
took him 15 to make this film. The storyline was very intriguing as they made
the life of a blind man intriguing. Scenes like when Ray Chares' brother dies
and how Ray judges if a girl is beautiful (by touching her wrist) really give the
viewer a deeper understanding into Ray's life.

Based on other reviews this movie is actually very accurate to the actual
life Ray lived. Also based on research this movie is quite accurate. There
have been some names, places and event that had been slightly altered but
overall the movie is realistic. Certain scenes have been found out not to be
completely true like the scene where Ray's brother was drowning and Ray

just stood there, but in real life Ray Charles said he remembered trying to
pull his brother out but couldn't. The key of "mess around" in the movie is a G
when in reality it is an E flat. Besides these little things that have a very small
impact on the movie, Ray is historically accurate.

Overall the unknown story of Ray Charles and his ability to overcome his
struggles and rise to triumph make Ray the inspiring docudrama that it is.