I have no problem with an intermediate vinyasa class. Based on all the fantastic reviews, I had to purchase three of these DVDs.

I'm frankly baffled by the degree of enthusiasm for them, and so I must be either missing something or too impatient. But this kind of physical-breath practice was far more frustrating than beneficial for me, and almost wonder if this kind of instruction is mandatory to have in person rather than DVD.

First, unlike more typical asana instruction (Iyengar, Vinyasa, Ashtanga) the combination of breath and physical posture never once felt to me coherently linked, comfortable, flowing, or even potentially enhancing of well-being. No doubt some of it is practice and (again) patience, but usually when confronted with similar challenges in other yoga disciplines I have felt both a present challenge to my comfort, but also a deeper awareness of future or potential ease, gain, comfort, or well-being. Not for one moment I have felt them using this instruction.

The degrees of difficulty are all over the map. Beginners could keep up with many of the sequences, but absolutely not a pose just minutes later (one example: the transition from Bridge pose to a full Upward Bow, which Ana holds doing breath of fire for an insanely long time). Ravi Singh's voice-over urges patience for beginners, but that is inadequate. This pose seems too advanced to simply appear when and as it does in this sequence. Other more frustrating moments include one of the movements, which require a quick transition from toe-tap, to solar plexus, to opposite toe-tap, to sternum, all coordinating the breath in specific ways and all happening much too fast for a first or second-timer to feel comfortable with the pace. It's a disincentive to try again.

Most tellingly for me, the transitions in and out of the poses never feel right. Unlike other practices (esp Vinyasa and Ashtanga) where a deeper wisdom links one pose to what follows, I felt myself tight and uncomfortable in many of the transitions.

I'm a lightweight Buddhist so am not at all offended by the chanting, nor do I feel it should be taken as inconsistent with other traditions. But it didn't feel to me at all energetically meaningful either. Apparently, no Hindu past lives for me....

Finally, the production values can be just flat-out strange. In one of the DVDs, the stage includes a circle of small, round, crummy looking rugs, none of which is large enough for an entire body. And -- this is stupid I know -- on one of them (don't remember which) but I couldn't help wondering why the director couldn't have offered a washcloth for the bottom of Ana's feet. For the director of a product that's 95% visual, just seems like a no-brainer.

For all the enthusiasm other reviewers have for this work, I desperately wanted these DVDs in my rotation. Again, it is almost certainly a simple mismatch between me and this practice. Can someone please shed some light about what I'm missing? Meantime, I'm going back to Iyengar/Vinyasa.