First off, alot of people are rating this low due to the fact esp 201 is censored as original aired. Sadly it's true. But that doesnt take away the fact that it was a awesome season full of outragious comedy always pushing the bar far as they can. That's what i love about matt and trey, they always try to shock disgust and yet entertain the public by poking fun of all. But anyways i give this season a 5 star.

 The esp that stood out for me are Medicinal Fried Chicken where kfc closes down and cartmen whos got a addiction to the food there becomes a underground food pusher lol and the former kfc location turns into a medical marijuana store and randy tries to get cancer to medical get marijuana LOL lots more happens in this esp.

The next one that stood out is 200 part 1 and 201 part 2 although part 2 is censored these esps had so much hilarious scenes and including cartmens real dad along with former faces from the past esps (mr hat, scott tetermen and many more)  basically the store line for them is stan accidentally insults Tom Cruise again by calling him a "fudge packer". tom then recruits a bunch of celebs to sue south park so the kids go to super best friends for help which shows a big censored bar for mahammed and of course they poked fun of different reglions during this scene christians, buddist anyways the celebs true plan was to kidnap mohammed to get his goo so they will have the power to not be made fun of in esp 201 gingers also want the goo and it becomes a war cartmen is still on the quest to find his real dad with mitch conner lol (from jennifer lopaz esp) evenually the celebs seek the help of  Mecha Streisand robot lol! to take over south park. and the ending had a awesome twist if it wasnt for all the censors and the entire speech at the end being sensored i would honestly say this was one of the best but sadly its not now with all the censors and the speech didnt even have mohammed in it according to the creators it was a speech about terrorism and not giving in turns out comedy central didnt like that... pretty sad i guess they disagree.

Anyways another esp that stood out is crippled summer. It's basically a summer camp esp with timmy and also towelie druged out and needing a intervention esp it was done in the style of old cartoons with the bad guy and good guy i loved it lol. Memorable scenes in this esp are one of the handicaps kids getting F'd by a shark and towlie in the car saying it feels like im walking on sunshine. LOL the face he makes is priceless.

Poor and stupid esp is another thats pretty good. Cartmen goes on a quest to become a nascar driver and in his mind you have to be poor and stupid so he seeks butters help to become poor and stupid. LOL meanwhile kenny who loves nascar is insulted and outraged by cartmens logic and behavior in the sport as a nascar driver.

It's a jersey thing is pretty funny as well. Basically alot of jersey people move down to sotuh park (jersey shore spoof) and evenually people from south park hate jersey people. Shelia reveals a secret to south park and to her family. Memorable moments are cartmen getting humped by snooki lol.

Another that stood out to me is the coon sega which is 3 parter esp (Coon 2: Hindsight,Mysterion Rises (Part 2), Coon vs. Coon and Friends (Part 3)
basically its a south park kids esp being super heroes. Cartmen is the leader for awhile but evenually gets kicked out so he seeks revenge and world domination by teaming up with a dark lord. Kenny tries to convince his friends he cannot die unsuccessfully and reveals how kenny hates it coming back to life. It appears hes the only one who actually has a power but isnt so theres another member of the coon friends who has powers as a twist and of course they poke fun of the oil spill comercials as well lebron comercial which were pretty funny.

Creme fraiche is the last esp of the season and another that stood out to me
randy becomes obsessed with food network and appears to be getting off to it and evenually works in the school cafe as a chef. LOL Meanwhile sharon who is not pleased with this, decides to work out and work on herself with the shake wieght. Alot of dirty jokes are in this esp and the boys try to stop randy from cooking in their cafeteria.

The other esps in this season are
insheeption (mr mackey and stan facing their hoarding problem)

The tale of scrotie mcboogerballs (the boys read a book that was deemed as offensive but are angry to find it wasnt offensive at all and decide to write a book thats so offensive and crude. When they got caught with the book they blamed butters being the author, the funny part is south park loves the book and butters gets the credit and spot light and they boys become jealous and try to get the book banned.

sexual healing (tiger woods cheating spoof) Kenny, Kyle, and Butters are diagnosed as sex addicts and are forced into therpy for sex addiction and kenny dies in a funny way.

All in all this season was packed full of laughs, offensiveness as well as memoriable moments. As a cartmen fan it deff packed alot of funny cartmen moments. i would buy this season but not right away due to the fact that 201 is censored. Hopefully comedy central will reconsider this but its still banned from airing on tv as well on their site sadly along with esp 200. But if you dont mind 201 being censored then buy this set.