The Brave One was mentioned in my church during a solemn evening of prayer (on September 11) as a movie that depicts how "out of control" society becomes when we take matters into our own hands.  I still wanted to see the movie and went with an open mind.  This is a very thought provoking movie and touches on really important issues about what happens when we take the law into our own hands.  The real questions in this movie, for me, focus around when is the character's killing of others self-defense and when does it begin to press into less heroic territory.  I had to ask, "Why IS she 'The Brave One'.  Does killing others (for any reason) really make our character "brave?"  This is, regardless of what angle you view it from, one very powerful movie that speaks very clearly about what is going on in American society from a very contemporary point of view.
Erica Bain, after being horribly attacked with her fiance, left for dead, and regaining her senses three weeks later in a hospital to find her fiance is dead, faces the real dread of being able to go out her door and walk on the street alone.  Terror leads her to purchase a gun and once it is purchased, she almost immediately is thrown into a situation where she is required to defend herself or die.  She choses to kill.  Oddly enough, she is soon thrown into another situation with the same result.  And here, the movie takes the turn that -- if you have any ethics, morals, values or concern for life -- makes you really start paying attention and causes you to quesiton the motives of this victim turned hero. What happens next is likely more a psychological split in Erica Bain's personality -- she goes beyond self defense and makes decisions that, while they feel and look morally right, in your heart you know are wrong.  Unlike Death Wish, to which this movie is compared, Erica Bain (Jodi Foster) does not immediately go out to seek revenge.  Her's is more a process of self-preservation turned awry.  At the end of my viewing of this film in the theater, it seemed nearly every one applauded the outcome.  I didn't.  I had such mixed emotions about what had happened that in my heart and head, I'm still trying to sort out if it was right or wrong.  As movies go, this one is so well acted, you become a very real part of the painful emotional process the characters feel and experience not only in Erica Bain, but also in Det. Sean Mercer.  The acting is really what makes this film work.