Those not familiar with at least a tad bit of Tennessee Williams' real life woes may be disturbed by Suddenly, Last Summer if they take its plot literally. But those who know some of the playwright's background will be able to appreciate the symbolism captured in this movie based on the work Williams originally wrote as a one act play. It should also be noted that though Williams is given credit for writing the film with Gore Vidal, he was not happy with it and denounced it. It is indeed a metaphorically piece that probably translates better on stage. But classic movie lovers will still enjoy seeing Clift, Hepburn, and Taylor together in a maddening Southern Gothic black and white (thought the DVD cover is colorized) film from the 1950s.

SLS is the story of Catharine Holly (Taylor), driven mad by the mysterious death of her cousin Sebastian while they were vacationing in Europe together. Her Aunt Violet (Hepburn) persuades neurosurgeon Dr. Cuckrowicz (Clift) to move Hepburn to his asylum to examine her, enticing him with financial backing in hopes of getting the doctor to perform a lobotomy on Catharine in order to conceal the truth about Sebastian. That truth is that he was a homosexual, but being the 1950s, The Hollywood Production Code made the film makers cut out all references to it. True, that leaves a bit of the plot line left up to interpretation, but also provides a wonderful mystery element to the film because everyone avoids "the truth" about Sebastian and his demise. But a truth serum given to Catharine reveals all in the end!

Hepburn is brilliant as always, much deserving of the elevator-like throne she comes down out of the ceiling on in the movie. She's a classic eccentric here, giving the movie awesome nuances and she herself goes a bit mad in the end. The opening scene between her and Clift is the best! Young Taylor, mad throughout almost all of the film, is great too but still a bit too pretty most of the time. And Clift is a bit stiff, the irony being that he was hiding his own homosexuality.  Rumor has it that the directors treated him poorly and that Hepburn and Taylor both stood up for him. Still, all three shine in this classic film that fans, classic movie buffs, or Williams followers will certainly enjoy in one way or another.