I am a huge fan of The 10th Kingdom, and am writing mainly to address the following points raised by a previous reviewer:

***WARNING -- THERE MAY BE SOME MINOR SPOILERS -- nothing earth-shattering, but if you like to watch with absolutely NO knowledge, then skip this review. ***

1. "...the writers couldn't decide if they were going to do a fantasy or a fairy tale."  The whole show hinged around a juxtaposition of different genres, time periods and stories.  That was the point, and what made for so many unexpected and clever twists.  Anyway, perhaps I'm not aware of the differences between fantasy and fairy tale, but I don't particularly care!  (Oh, and by the way, you forgot to mention nursery rhymes -- the Peeps reference!)

2.  "I feel the character of the Huntsman was completely unneeded as the trolls were already doing pretty much the same thing."  This I take huge issue with.  The Huntsman provided a much-needed element of darkness in the actual pursuit of (and threat towards) the main characters (especially the physical pursuit, since the Queen was in the background most of the time).  The Trolls are bumbling comic relief (and not my favorite characters, by the way), but the Huntsman was the real threat (an unredeemed version of the huntsman in the Snow White story).  His relentless evil presence overshadowed all of the short-term threats to the main characters, and was absolutely essential.

3.  "I also found both the Peep encounter & the Kissing Town rather unneccesary."  Well, I'm not sure how, since they seemed essential to both advancing the plot and expanding the dimensions of the characters.  And, darn it, they were just plain fun!!

I do agree that not everything was perfect in terms of continuity and plot gaps, but it's a small price to pay for so many hours of outstanding entertainment.  And, by the way, I bear no malice towards the reviewer (who gave the show 3 stars, after all), but I just HAD to address those points, in the interests of fairness and open debate.  :)

Thanks for reading!