Let me just start this review by saying i have seriousely seen every movie you can think of, in ever genre, horror, action, comedy, adventure, anything. Let me continue my review by saying this is one of the most pitiful excuses for a horror movie that i have ever watched in my entire life, in all honesty i turned it off after the fist one hour, but i sure as hell know enough about this piece of garbage that i can put together a review.

Basically their is a haunted tooth fairy on the loose. Stupid, huh? Ya.....Whenever you lose a tooth, your told not to peek otherwise it will kill you, ya....However, it suddenly turns out that the tooth fairy starts haunting everyone. But their is a twist. The tooth fairy only comes out in the dark.

The story starts about a young boy who loses a tooth. They live in a rather large house, and its time for him to go to bed. The mom tucks him in and tells him "not to peek." Hes fast asleep and hears something. He worries, so he goes to his mom and tells her that he heard something. Of course, she doesn't believe him. However, she goes in the room and gets brutally cut to death by the monster. (This scene was actually the best in the entire movie.)

The movie then jumps to 12 years later when he is a grown man. He is married to his girlfriend that he had since he was a young boy, and they had this kid named Michael who is suffering the same images of the tooth fairy that the husband is.

So the story is basically him, his girlfriend, and the young boy Michael trying to stop the tooth fairy. (*yawn!*) You see, where this movie really fails is that its just not scary, (horror movies are ment to be scary by the way) its just a whole hunk of junk, the enemy tooth fairy is this ghoulish cheesy dump of goo, (you see its face at the end, because they manage to rip its mask off and kill it) and the scipt is one of the worst scrips i've ever seen in horror movie history.

The action scenes are pitiful, no suspense, everything was predictable, not enough storyline to actually make it addicting and worth watching, and lets just say that this movie is just wasting your time. (i hate it when directors waste their time with movies like this!)So in conclusion, if i was able to i would give this 0 stars but the minimum is one, so i guess i give it 1 star.