They say that timing is everything, and while that sometimes applies to sports, that could be the story of 'Two for the Money'.  It's a film that came and went quickly from theaters last October.  There is a huge market for sports films, especially those centered around football.  Maybe sports fans or the general public were too wrapped up in the winding days of the baseball season to take notice of this film.

  In any case, it's a overlooked gem that might find a audience on dvd. 'Two for the Money' takes us into the fast paced world of sports betting.  Matthew McConaughey plays Brandon Lang, a once promising football player who's sidetracked by a injury, who now enters the world of sports betting. On the local scene, he quickly builds a large reputation for picking winners in the weekly football games.  Lang eventually attracts the attention of
Walter Abrams(played by Al Pacino) who lures him to New York City to take part in his ever growing sports betting media empire.  Lang becomes Abrams's protege and golden goose all at the same time.

  It's the basic story of the boy who sells his soul to the devil, flies high into this billion dollar industry and eventually crashes.  However it doesnt fall into the standard formula plot line.  McConaughey plays Lang as cocky, but with the
practical balance of knowing he has alot to learn.  Lang stays grounded and keeps his mind open to learn from his mistakes.

  Pacino plays Abrams as a cool laid back businessman who wants to see his sports betting empire grow to the fullest. At the moment, he banks everything on Lang.  In the past few years, Pacino has been playing this same type of fatherly mentor type in films like 'City Hall', 'The Retcruit', 'Donnie Brasco', and the 'Devil's Advocate'. Those characters were all world weary types who were out to make one last big score in their chosen fields.  Here Pacino plays Abrams who is a little drained, as someone who not just wants to keep winning, but stay in the game as well.  It's a relief to see Pacino not play Abrams as a super
emotionally charged person screaming at  high volume like the previous characters from the mentioned films.  In one hilarious scene, Abrams takes Lang  to a gambler's anoymous meeting and joins in the discussion.  Pacino avoids presenting Abrams as overblown, instead he starts out low key and smooth in his verbal approach.  The audience doesn't know if he is confessing his sins, recruiting new gambling clients,  or simply killing two birds with one stone.

  Later on in the movie as the two  are seen  traveling thru a
airport in Puerto Rico with Lang being the top sports betting agent in the country.  We get to see Pacino reveal Abrams as a tough shrewd buinessman who lays all the cards out to let the golden goose know who is really in control.

  Rene Russo is wonderful as Pacino's wife Toni.  She's a strong independent woman who despite all the chaos that this business brings about, manages to keep a somewhat stable family life going.  Jeremy Piven who is currently receiving critical raves for his work on television's 'The Entourage',
gives a solid supporting performance here as a fellow betting agent who ends up being overlooked by Abrams.

  It's a fine script by Jay Cohen and Dan Gilroy who show the characters as believeable people in everyday situations.

  The director D.J. Caruso deserves alot of credit for keeping the story well balanced.  The film never falls into any standard formula plot.  While it deals in the end with everything riding on the final big game, the film stays real in its approach, showing the payoff not in terms of the big cash jackpot.  The film shows that sometimes life's lessons are hard lessons to be learn and that the payoff is the insight gained down the road.

  While the film has alot of action, maybe the overall realism kept audiences away. It's a film that should of been released around Christmas time just as the regular football season is winding down. Also, it's also the time that films begin to get considerations for academy award nominations.  Pacino, McConaughey, and Russo all give strong performances here that were overlooked.  Hopefully this film will be discovered by people on dvd.