Ken Burns has attempted the impossible: a comprehensive video series on jazz. So, there is something to offend nearly everybody; but much much to delight many as well. It was a noble effort, however flawed. Television, misleading and basically untrue medium that it is, is seldom better. That in itself merits praise.
The mastermind behind "Jazz" is not Ken Burns. He is the producer, and knew nothing of jazz five years ago. The philosophy and history of jazz is largely directed and inspired by trumpeter and band leader Wynton Marsallis, for better or worse. The take is that jazz is essentially black music, which is often appropriated by while interlopers. The gods of jazz, for Marsallis, are Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington. There is some truth in this. Benny Goodman was not the "King of Swing." That title should have gone to Duke Ellington or Chic Webb or Fletcher Henderson, Goodman's forebears. With considerable talent, he popularized their ideas. However, talent in jazz is not a matter of pigment, but of soul, of brilliance, of spirit. That is colorblind. That is a Gift.
Moreover, it is a stain on American history that many great, black jazz musicians could not stay in the hotels in which they brilliantly performed and had difficulty breaking into management and record production. As with "Baseball," "Jazz" often addresses the themes of race and class in America--so much so that one often wishes there were more pure music in this long series. The only complete cut, I believe, is a short Billy Holiday blues piece in which she touchingly reconciled with Lester Young. Why not a full piece by the classic Coltrane Quartet on "Jazz Casuals" or something similar?
I would have appreciated more comments by Nat Hentoff, a key jazz writer in the bebop and beyond period. (He is also an excellent newspaper columnist.) Gary Giddens is consistently insightful and worth hearing, especially on Coltrane and Armstrong.
Then there are the omissions. There is nothing on the blind, multi-instrumentalist (who played several reed instruments at once) and steller improvisor Roland Kirk. Although he is arguably the best living jazz guitar player, Pat Metheny is omitted (as is most of the last forty years of jazz). We find nothing on the recently departed innovator and virtuoso of the trombone, J.J. Johnson. There is nothing on the highly creative and passionate playing of multi-reed player (and bandmate of John Coltrane), Eric Dolphy. If Burns cut out about about ten-fifteen minutes of Pops, there would have been some room for these esteemed cats.
I hope the effect of this series will be to revitalize interest in and love for jazz, the best uniquely American art form. Jazz ranks near last in music sales today, sadly. Consider the garbage (Eminem!) that outsells it. But jazz has a great history and is not dead; it has a future. Just listen to Joshua Redmond, James Carter, Branford Marsallis, or Pat Metheny... And watch "Jazz"--critically, but appreciatively. 
--Douglas Groothuis