The fourth season of Heroes (or the fifth volume if you prefer) arguably sees the popular show return to it's first season form. The show certainly took a dive in it's second and third seasons but definitely makes up for it with this fourth season.

Volume Five Redemption sees our favourite heroes seeking redemption after the events of the last volume, the biggest one being Sylar turning into Nathan Petrelli thanks to Matt Parkman, H.R.G. and Angela Petrelli. Most of the other heroes have tried to return to living normal lives: Peter working as a nurse, Claire going to collage, Hiro setting up a 'Dial-a-Hero' service with Ando. When a mysterious carnival headed by Samuel Sullivan comes into town, our heroes must deal with this new group as well as shocking revelations of the past and uncertain future.

Although both cast and crew were expecting a fifth season to be picked up, NBC chose to cancel the show, leaving the finale (although good in its own right) somewhat unsatisfying. I can only hope Tim Kring keeps his promise of continuing the storyline in the future through other mediums.

The DVD packing is stunning, using carnival motifs which reflect the carnival which is a focus within the show. The only gripe I have with it is the fact that they used a promotional picture of Nikki instead of Tracy on the cover, which as a huge fan of the show seems somewhat lazy on the behalf of the DVD cover designers. The special features are good, giving a good insight into the show and how it was made. Although previous boxsets of Heroes DVDs came chock-a-block full of commentaries, it is a pity that they did not continue this with the fourth season.

Overall Heroes Season Four is a must for sci-fi fans. The show returns to form and sees our favourite characters in interesting situations as well as the introduction of instantly popular new characters. A fair farewell to the show which got us to "save the cheerleader, save the world". I only hope that fans can can look forward to the 'brave new world' which Tim Kring has promised...