The movie remains fascinating to watch throughout despite the fact that the plot appears curiously "inconsequential" at times. Where is this film heading, you ask yourself.......Divided into basically two segments, first we are treated to a tight, yet almost "by-rote" take on Boot camp. Exhilarating, though, and it makes you laugh at times at the histrionics and the superb command of the Drill Sergeant (who, I believe was a REAL sergeant chosen to act in the film), and almost makes you forget the damage possibly inflicted on a number of fragile young men......which, in fact, is the denouement that powerfully closes the chapter.......
Moving on to Vietnam, Kubrick is clearly unconcerned with anything that might even come close to the word EPIC as he concentrates on a small group of men and the growing struggle of their work. It all appears, again, almost breezy and "inconsequential", yet there is a clear and unmistakeable crescendo that creeps up on you as the movie slowly draws to a close.
And it triumphs, again, in the subtlety of the chosen action before your eyes. This is no GRAND, melodramatic "Private Ryan"......The movie appears low-key but resonates quite profoundly.
And so we bow deeply to the many excellent performers (who, please forgive me, Gentlemen, escape me by name), but are CAPTURED literally by the extraordinarily nuanced perfomance by Matthew Modine. The closing scene of conflicted feelings and harrowing decision-making is extraordinary acting.
This ending is the more remarkable for humanizing, to an extent, the enemy------which of course is very difficult to achieve, and yet Kubrick offers us this profound observation on the duality and absurdity of war. We are all, after all, at least in a conflict like this, involved in a role which at its most acute moment presents the homogeneity of us all, no matter which side you stand on.
The soundtrack is sometimes corny, silly, intrusive, and the Rolling Stones' "Paint it Black" is the closing "memento" to this curiously engrossing, unusual, rather unique testament to the futility of war.
A near "masterpiece"------but not quite so......