This movie was funny as hell although full of suspense. A story about an aged child star who has become resentful at the progress & attention her older sister & only sibling has received by Hollywood as an up an coming actress, as the 2 are growing up. Baby Jane Hudson, played by Betty Davis, was always used to getting her way as a child actress. Kind of like puts you in the mind of the worldwide acclaim Shirley Temple received for being such a young, talented entertainer, but unlike Temple, as Baby Jane began to grow up, her talent fizzled and she was no longer in demand. A true daddy's little girl, her and her father shared a very close relationship as he had a hand in her career, and treated his other daughter, Blanche Hudson, coldly. After their parents passed away, Blanche became an actress, a more mature actress & took Hollywood by storm, but her career was abruptly halted by a car accident that left her paralyzed from the waist down and left her in a wheel chair. With no other relatives to care for her, she and Baby Jane ended up living together, with Blanche, though older, forced to have the resentful & sassy Jane take care of her. This is where the story becomes funny as hell. Betty Davis was hilarious in her actions, sabotaging things in the house, creating dangerous dishes for her older sister, knowing Blanche couldn't cook for herself. Jane even made it impossible for Blanche to get outside assistance ( i.e from neighbors, doctors, etc ). You will find yourself on the edge of you seat, wondering just what the hell this crazy lunatic ( Baby Jane ) was going to do to her invalid sister next. The highlight to me, was Jane's attire once she got old. She tried to retain her childhood appearance even over the age of 60, I'm talking ring curls, bows, & baby-doll dresses, which in some way, would freak some people out, especially with her heavy clown makeup she wore, which she over-did it on. Though the title of the movie will leave some wondering, it ends up being very fitting because it leaves you actually wondering "just what the hell DID happen to Baby Jane" to make her turn out so evil and crazy. Joan Crawford as Blanche, also did a good job, playing the punk sister who can't stand up for herself, afraid to eat her dinner and what not. This was a classic. I give it 2 thumbs up !!!