This is the first review I have ever posted to Amazon and I am writing this because I felt compelled to dispute the reactionary opinions I read about this film.  I want to address really briefly the four main problems people have with this film: the subpar acting, the CGI, its supposed multiple personality disorder, and the themes of the film.

First of all, yes, Nick Cage is the star of this film.  Yes he has done many, many horrible films recently and because of that many people have written him off as an actor and have a tendency to be predisposed to hating whatever he does next.  I also had my doubts going into this film, but I'm a fan of Proyas so I gave it a shot.  I felt that Cage's understated performance was surprisingly believable and perfect for the tone of the film.  Obviously films like Adaptation etc. have shown us that Cage can, in fact, act so lets try to be reasonable and not write off an entire production because of one person's past mistakes.  Also his hair is pretty normal here, which is a huge plus.

Many people have also made flippant remarks about the CGI effects in this film.  I've watched these scenes with the purpose of picking this element apart and found nothing.  The CGI is TOP NOTCH!!  These epic set pieces are beautifully staged and shot, I seriously cannot believe that these people have watched the same film as I have and I too can't stand it when CGI is haphazardly thrown together.

I agree that there is a lot packed into this storyline, a story line that is equal parts horror, drama, sci-fi, and apocalyptic. I've got to say that there are plenty of movies that have attempted this sort of hybrid before and failed miserably, but this is not one of them.  Every 'personality' this film evokes blends seamlessly together, complimenting each other, and each has a purpose in telling this epic story.  Never did I feel like something was out of place or laughably inserted just to please the director's indulgences.  Yes there are outlandish and "unbelievable" elements to this story, but this is a story about finding a greater meaning in life, about events that are part of a bigger picture working together harmoniously for a greater purpose.  This is about finding faith...so understandably those without faith will find it hard to stomach.

This brings me to the themes of the films, which will be a little touchy for people so try to have an open mind.  We live in a world that praises the individual, that promotes that power of self, and our ability to control our destiny.  A film that so blatantly shows a man's journey from a dark place where he believes everything is random and there is no meaning or purpose to life, to a new perspective where he is part of a predetermined destiny (releases control) and embraces faith, would cause today's "individual" to become uncomfortable and react as if he is being boxed in or preached at.  While this film mirrors certain religious themes, it certainly is not "preachy" (in fact from the commentary alone Proyas practically refuses to paint it in a religious light), and it leaves much to be interpreted by the audience.  I think this is a bold move, which I respect and admire, which treats the audience with respect, but it is a move that has sadly proven to be dangerous in the age of the individual.  Remember, the more we reject bold films like this, the less studios will be willing to pay for them, leaving us with more 2012s.

As for the blu-ray disc, well its no surprise that a film so universally maligned would get a rather bare-bones release (hence four stars), but there are some bright spots.  Besides the fact that you will be able own what could quite possibly become the next cult film ala 'Dark City', the video is pristine!  Shot with the latest Red Camera digital technology it was made to take full advantage of the blu-ray format.  Other than that, obviously, Proyas' commentary is definitely one of the more interesting I've heard.  If you still haven't seen this because of all the negative propaganda give it a shot.  If you like it, fight the power, and give it a second life on blu-ray!