Upon first assessment, the movie Robots may seem like just another story about living the American Dream, but it's so much more than that. The protagonist comes from a dirt poor family, whose father has to work washing dishes to make ends meet. Living off of hand-me-downs, his father has nothing to give him except for supporting him in his dream to one day become a world famous inventor. Coming from such humble beginnings, Joe Robot (Rodney) then goes to the big city, and after much hard work and old fashioned American ingenuity, reaches the top of the food chain and becomes partners with his childhood idol.
  In this everyday story are inserted several interesting conflicts of ideas that are very relevant to our modern world. There is the question of the place of corporations and how they are run. The idea of contentment with ourselves as we are vs. having to purchase a perfect body is toyed with. A rejection of Materialism is a strong theme in the film. Finally, there is the eerie parallel to historical events where the extermination of inferiors was used as an excuse for genocide.
  As a child, Rodney was raised watching Bigweld, the head of the company that mass produces all the parts and upgrades which all Robots come from, on TV telling him about the value of the individual. But when Rodney grows up and goes to meet this man, he finds a very different person heading the business now in the form of Ratchet. Ratchet is a very different type of CEO. He is not interested in the little man. His only concern is making profit. The leadership style of these two individuals leading the same company represents our own big corporations who have grown so powerful. Ratchet, blind by greed, loses sight of the fact that it's the little man that allows his business to succeed. The character of Bigweld makes the statement that you can run a business in a moral and honest way, and still make money.
  The movie also tries to teach us about inner beauty. I personally felt a pang of disgust when in the film Ratchet unveils his latest batch of upgrades newly available. In a world of mass advertising where you have sex, beautiful models, and teen pop stars like Britney spears in your face all the time, it's easier to become unhappy with the way you look, if you're not as "pretty". Fad diets and plastic surgeons with their liposuction, boob jobs, and butt implants take advantage of this. In Robots, these upgrades were just that; unnecessary cosmetic tinkering that prey upon the insecurities of people exposed to millions of dollars of advertising, for the purpose of bankrupting one out of their money. Ratchet was the pretty poster boy incarnation of this. The Rusties were the opposite extreme. Ratchet's mom shows what happens when you let the idea of outward beauty consume you. You become a hideous, ugly looking monster. Pappy, who sits on the board of Bigweld industries, sheds her upgrades when she is converted the Rodney's cause, yet loses none of her beauty, which is instead heightened by her acts.
  A rejection of Materialism is also a strongly prominent theme. Rodney grows up with his cousins used hand-me-downs. The rusties live off of used parts they find in the dumpsters. Rodney's father relates the story that he wishes he could have lived his dream, (which has astonishingly nothing to do with money considering the state of poverty they live in) but is to have continued to play his instrument and become a musician. When Rodney's father apologizes for not being able to have provided better for his son, Rodney replies that he gave him the best thing in the world, which was believing in him.
  The most obvious parallel in the film is Ratchets plan to eliminate the large numbers of undesirables by ending the production of parts with Hitlers' plan to exterminate non Aryans by sending them to death camps. The huge trash collection machines patrolled the streets looking for outmodes to send to the ovens, much like the Gestapo patrolled Europe searching for jews, gypsies, gays, and sympathizers of these groups to send to the camps.
  Robots is a kids movie that dealt with a lot of adult themes. It is important to teach kids good moral values with films like these.