Licence To Kill is a great Bond movie, one of the best in my opinion. It is Timothy Dalton's second and last performance as 007. It is also the first Bond film not to use the title of one of Ian Fleming's novels or short stories as its own. The plot is darker than most previous Bond films and Dalton's Bond is much more vengeful, which puts him more in line with Fleming's character.

  Trying not to give everything away, the plot basically follows Bond as he tries to avenge his good friend Felix Leiter and his wife. While on their honeymoon, they are brutally attacked by an escaped drug lord, resulting in Mrs. Leiter's death and in Felix losing his leg. Felix, by the way, is a reoccurring CIA operative in the Bondverse and has been portrayed by eight different actors in the Bond movies over the years. At any rate, Bond goes all out to get revenge for his friends and goes very dark, foreboding the performances of Daniel Craig years later, in my opinion.

  In addition to having a memorable Bond performance, this film also includes a much expanded role and laudable performance as Q by Desmond Llewelyn. This was perhaps his finest performance in this role and really stands out. Better yet, while Q provides 007 with some useful and interesting devices, the sci-fi aspect of this movie is not in overdrive and feels like a snug and complimenting fit.

  The Bond girls are actually spot-on for this movie as well and so is the main villain, drug lord Franz Sanchez.

  Whereas the drug lord Kananga in Live & Let Die was very hokey and unbelievable, actor Robert Davi's Sanchez is very convincing. He is surrounded by henchman that actually feel threatening, he seems to understand cause and effect, he tries to take an active role in dealing with his problems, and he has a realistic hideout in the form of a bank he owns and finances with his drug sales earnings.

  Similarly, the Bond girls are very good. Talisa Soto's Lupe, Sanchez's girlfriend who falls head over heels for Bond, is expert as an abused and underappreciated girlfriend who, seeing a way out, runs for the exit. Cary Lowell's CIA-operative Pam is very good too. She is a modern woman with her own skills and agenda, who uses her charms on the men around her and her fighting skills to good success when needed.

  All around, this movie is truly a classic. The movie is one of the rare occasions in the Bond series where everything seems to fall into place to make a very good picture. The Blu-ray release is, as all of them so far have been, very good. I give Licence To Kill five stars and recommend it to everyone.