I can honestly say that no music documentary has moved me as much as this one since I saw Margaret Brown's "Be Here To Love Me" about the life and music of Townes Van Zandt. Like Nilsson, Van Zandt struggled for recognition during his lifetime and often had his songs become best known through versions by other artists. There are also parallels between the lives of the two men in terms of substance abuse. Unfortunately, these stories always have the same ending. There are very few survivors of this lifestyle, particularly in the fast living entertainment industry. (The only one that comes readily to mind is Keith Richards, although probably the Rolling Stones in general can be considered survivors.) I wouldn't say I was a huge Harry Nilsson fan prior to watching this documentary, although I do have two of his CD's in my collection. However, I can say after watching it that I had no idea what a complex person he was, and what a genius he was. One thing that I took for granted was his voice. He was an incredible singer, and I don't say that lightly. I will definitely be getting more of his music, the album of standards he recorded will be high up on my "to buy" list. I'm almost embarrassed to say that prior to watching this I considered him to be a footnote in John Lennon's "Lost Weekend" and the guy who made Fred Neil's "Everybody's Talkin'" a huge hit. There was so much more to this man than I was aware of, as many of his family, friends, and associates attest in this fascinating film. Like many musical geniuses, Nilsson's music was difficult to categorize and he was an extremely complex person. He also fought his fame, as many of the musicians that I admire did in one way or another, although he fought it in such an extreme way that he basically destroyed his voice on purpose. Although there were a lot of sad aspects to his life, the smiles on all his friends faces in the interviews, (and even at his funeral), said it all. This documentary was riveting, and although it gave me a lump in my throat several times I'm really glad I saw it. I hope that many more see it as well and recognize a singer and songwriter who was really underappreciated in his lifetime and deserves his due.