This review is of the DVD.  If you haven't seen this 1958 classic in widescreen format, you really haven't seen it.  Director Vincente Minnelli (Liza's father) fills each frame beautifully, often composing scenes reminiscent of the impressionist painters he so loved, such as Renoir or Seurat.  Letterbox-haters, this is a good test of the superiority of seeing a movie the way the director intended, not crammed into the 1:1.33 TV screen.  (The DVD includes both versions, so comparison comes cheap.)  
The year is 1900.  Gigi (Leslie Caron) is a pubescent young woman who becomes more and more attractive to millionaire Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jordan).  But Gigi's family has a tradition of "Instead of marrying at once, it sometimes happens we get married at last."  Making the tradition from pre-teen to beautiful young woman, awkward Gigi is "trained" in the arts of catering to men, such as choosing a cigar, walking elegantly and pouring coffee in the best French manner.  The payoff for this kind of training is to occupy a rich young gentleman's bed--until he tires of this courtesan and moves on.  While still in favor, the lady in question lives in luxurious style:  tutor Aunt Alicia (Isabel Jeans) advises her charge to "Wait for the first-class jewels, Gigi.  Hold on to your ideals."  
The team of Lerner and Loewe wrote songs for this musical that include such favorites as "Thank Heaven for Little Girls" and "The Night They Invented Champagne."  On its initial release "Gigi" was touted as the cinematic equivalent of their smash Broadway play "My Fair Lady," as the movie trailer on this DVD makes apparent.  Gigi won a slew of Oscars, beating out the presumed favorite, Susan Heyward in "I Want to Live."  
It is no mistake that the compilation film of MGM's best  musicals, "That's Entertainment," features Gigi as the last chronological example of the MGM high-quality, lavish musical.  Minnelli would go on to direct many more films, including the 1960 musical "Bells Are Ringing" with Judy Holliday and Dean Martin, but "Gigi" was really MGM's "swan song" for expensive musicals, which were getting harder and harder to mount because of television and changing musical tastes (like Elvis).  
With a lot of begging and pleading from the director and producer, the studio spent enough money in Hollywood to duplicate Maxim's restaurant and the Ice Gallery, a favorite meeting-place for the 1900 elite.  Minnelli's visual wit is visible in the way he frequently uses real Parisian backgrounds of fountains and statuary, indirectly symbolizing and commenting on the mental state of the actor in front.  
The whole cast is marvelous, including Hermione Gingold as Gigi's grandmother and the incomparable Maurice Chevalier as Gaston's uncle, Honore Lachaille.  It is small wonder that this film is the very favorite--or close to it--among lovers of musicals.  "Gigi" is first-class all the way.  Even people who don't often purchase musicals may well enjoy the film for its masterly visual style and recreation of turn-of-the (last) century Paris.  
What more can I say?  Get ahold of this film RIGHT NOW while the price is so good.  I don't think you'll regret it.