"I Love You Beth Cooper" is a comedy film starring "Heroes" ingenue Hayden Panettiere in the title role. The film's pitch may have sounded great on paper-- Nerdy high school senior Denis Cooverman (Paul Rust) declares his years-long crush on popular cheerleader Beth on their graduation day, invites her to a party that no one is really coming to, only to have her show up, and all sorts of wacky misadventures ensue.

Indeed, it apparently sounded good on paper since the screenplay was adapted by the novel's author Larry Doyle. That being the case, the excuse of having an unsympathetic interpreter doesn't apply here. The characters are, of course, stereotypes, but for the most part they're not particularly entertaining stereotypes: Denis, despite his temporary boldness in his valedictorian speech, comes across as relentlessly wimpy for the entire rest of the film; the same goes for his best friend Rich (Jack Carpenter), a film-quoting geek who can't help but give the IMDB-rundown on every line he clips from a film character; it's not until the end when this character finally gets some backbone..

As the title character, Panettiere's Beth Cooper is the typical vapid and so-popular-i'm-really-depressed Dream Girl that populates these kinds of movies. An aside about a deceased sibling is vaguely touching but it comes far too late to justify why Denis would pine so long for someone who quite literally didn't know he existed until that day. Ms. Panettiere is as cute as a button, but she really isn't given much to do here. Beth's best-pals are even less-developed. Beth's rageaholic (and apparently drug addict!) boyfriend Kevin (Shawn Roberts) slightly resembles a young Bill Paxton. Alan Ruck, an alumnus of the conceptually similar "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" plays Denis' wants-to-be-cool dad (champagne is made available for Denis' party), though it's surprising that no lines from "Bueller" were clipped here for comic effect.

before the end of the film, entire houses are casually destroyed, reckless drivers menace the road, and nary a police officer is called, apparently.

Chris Columbus has delivered a number of entertaining films over the years, including the first two Harry Potter films, and the tangentially similar "Adventures in Babysitting". Unfortunately, he stumbles badly here.