This is the wondrous film that created Audrey Hepburn's enduring and iconic image:  The sublime Givenchy gown, the oversized sunglasses, the glamorous streaked updo, her own yards and yards of sophistication and chic.  If you hit puberty in the 60's as I did, this film presented one classic character to "wanna be": Holly Golightly via Audrey Hepburn.

"Breakfast at Tiffany's" is not without its flaws but what isn't in this world? It's a glossy, frothy, romantic glimpse into a window of time 50 years ago.

It's about Holly, a sometimes well-paid "party girl" living by her wits and on her charms in Manhattan during the early 60's.  It took me years to truly absorb that Holly was "paid for her favors" - primarily because imagining Audrey Hepburn as such was inconceivable.  I actually believed Holly was given money from admiring men "just" to go to the powder room.  I probably thought: who wouldn't give Holly/Audrey money simply for the pleasure of her delightful presence?

As it turns out, Holly's some kind of beautiful hillbilly who's drifted her way to the fringe of celebrity, from yahooville to Hollywood to New York.  She's living "La Dolce Vita" with "the jet set," but she's in survival mode, avidly looking for a rich husband and security.  Holly meets Varjak, Paul/aka "Fred" (George Peppard), a struggling writer, when he moves into her building.  Holly learns that he's kept by a wealthy, older married woman (Patricia Neal) and the two bond.  Things get complicated, as things always do, but things never get dull...

At one time the casting of George Peppard bothered me. Now, not so much -even after having read that Steve McQueen had been considered for the part.  McQueen might have been great, but I like Peppard just fine.  Paul Varjak is supposed to be a "square," and Peppard does a good job portraying the bemused outside observer of Holly's "swinging scene."

Much has been said of Mickey Rooney as Holly's upstairs neighbor, Mr. Yunioshi. Today playing an ethnic character this broadly and with buffoonery is NOT DONE - totally politically incorrect, and rightly so.  However, when "Breakfast at Tiffany's" was made in 1961 it was not yet the end of the era in which caricaturing non-WASPS was common.  I'm not saying it was a good thing and I'm not defending it, I'm just saying it's best to keep in mind that times hadn't changed yet when Rooney played Yunioshi.

"Breakfast at Tiffany's" boasts a solid supporting cast: Patricia Neal (mentioned above), Martin Balsam as fast talking movie-man, O.J. Berman, Buddy Ebsen as Doc Golightly and - not to forget - "Cat," a pivotal character.

"Roman Holiday" launched Audrey Hepburn, but this is the film that made her a legend.  For that alone it is to be savored.