This totally believable student/teacher drama grabs the viewer's attention from the beginning. Set in the turbulence of the 1960's it sweeps you through 30 years of this man's life (the real-life events that are woven through it are well done). It is the story of a man with good intentions, a teacher who is still learning himself. Glenn Holland (played by Richard Dreyfuss) is an aspiring composer who turns to teaching music at a local high school as a way to help make ends meet and still have time for his composing. His dream in life is to compose an opus that would one day make him famous. His wife (played by Glenne Headley) is loving, devoted and supportive wife. Things begin to change when she becomes pregnant and gives birth to their deaf child. Initially, Glenn has a great difficulty dealing with the fact that his son is deaf and gradually we see him pulling away from his family. For him, it is incomprehensible to have a child who is unable share his love of music. As we all do, Glenn has his faults, but he has a very big heart which keeps you tuned in to caring about him.
  This movie is about real people in realistic situations. We see a struggling teacher, the wife who supports the struggling teacher through everything, a caring well intentioned principal, a very strict, rigid vice principal, and the students who can all be found in any high school anywhere in the U.S.. The one thing that makes this movie magical is the simplicity of it.
  He's not a bad man, on the contrary, he's just a man. This is an inspirational movie that will stay with you long after you see it for the first time. It is the story of how you can discover new dreams as you pursue the old ones. Tried, true and timeless it is probably Richard Dreyfuss' greatest role yet. There are nothing but remarkable performances by this cast which includes Olympia Dukakis, William H. Macy, Jay Thomas, Alicia Witt just to name a few.
  One thing that cannot be omitted from a review of this spectacularly moving film is the fantastic soundtrack. This PG movie should be required viewing for all music students (who knows, they might learn alot from it).