There are few films that, after being viewed once, can be watched again any random point in the film and still catch your attention. Boogie Nights stands alongside films like The Godfather, Scarface, and The Shawshank Redemption as such. A film where the director has created a pace and flow and style that supports the strong writing and acting that flows within.

To you, the reader, there is no need to review the subject matter of the film. By this point you have, more than likely, already gathered enough information to bring you to this point. With that being said, let me elaborate on just what makes this film so entertaining.

 Director Paul Thomas Anderson has proven to be a somewhat enigmatic entity. This being his second major film, Anderson showed a style and presence as a filmmaker that easily rivaled Quinten Tarentino and Martin Scorsese. His later follow ups where rich in dialog and cinematic flare (Magnolia, Punch Drunk Love) but none have come close to equaling this films solid ensemble structure that plays like part reality series, and part comic/tragedy. This film has a raw, yet polished look that compliments it's satire and grit and doesn't get caught up in itslef to the point that it ever seems self indulgent.

Mark Wahlberg has his work cut out for him in the presence of a great supporting cast that includes Don Cheadle, John C. Reilly, William H. Macy, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Phillip Baker Hall, Julianne Moore, Heather Graham, Melora Waters, Luis Guzman and Burt Reynolds in his comeback version of John Travoltas Vincent Vega. Despite being joined by a cast that delivers extremely engaging performances, Mark Wahlberg manages to hold his own portraying the simple minded, big hearted porn phenom, "Dirk Diggler".

Much of the film doesn't seem like a film at times. We get to enter this seedy world of adult films, circa 1978 and we come to find that many of these charecters are likeable individuals and thus we are able to invest ourselves in their plight, their pain and their damaging way of healing. Part of the fun of witnessing this is some of the irony that comes long in seeing people stereotyped as "shady" as deep, complex charecters wrapped up in their own worlds of confusion, indecision, and addiction. What many would consider to be their biggest flaw is what they consider normal while their true pains linger deep beneath the surface and it is their "shady" circle of friends that they seek for sanctuary.

Each frame of this film is work of art in itself. Any one remotely interested in filmmaking need look no further. Boogie Nights could easily qualify as required viewing for a filmmaking 101 course. On the director commentary, Anderson himself freely confesses that he blatantly ripped off Johathan Demes' ( Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia) work repeatedly on Boogie Nights. Upon viewing Boogie Nights it won't be evident to anyone other than film geeks who went back and studied the latters' previous work, but be that as it may, Anderson has a solid grip on how to make a movie that is thoroughly entertaining, tragically humerous, and consistantly unnerving in the most, entertaining and subliminal of ways.

Although some may criticize it as a bit long at two and a half hours, it only allows time to help develop the flow of a film that, if you have yet to see, will have you sad to see it end.

Some have also chastized the final scene of the film. One thing to consider in watching this film. THis movie has no conclusive finale'. We step into these peoples lives at one point, and we walk out at another. We know their lives go on beyond when the camera turns off and we almost wish we could continue to see what happens but we are glad to see what we saw.