Beware of the film that you try to watch more than once only to stop it time after time because it's just not "doing it" for you.

On about the fourth go-around of this little "I want to watch a movie, oh, wait, this movie is crap, nevermind" game, I decided that I was actually going to sit down and really watch this flick all the way through. Hey, interesting premise, right? Some kid dies, his doting parents bring him back to life through the infant science of cloning, and he starts to get visions of the afterlife once he passes the age at which he died. Not bad. That can be worked with to wonderful results, right? Well, no. You'd THINK that, but you'd be wrong. This movie leaves a LOT to be desired.

Why this? Why would De Niro and Romijn-Stamos and Kinnear--all three of them capable of much more than this trainwreck--agree to perform in such a by-the-numbers thriller with no ending? Their talent is wasted on a horrible, implausible script that in no way mimics the pathos of actual human beings. Why would parents who love and respect their child as much as these people appear to do agree to such a selfish experiment? It doesn't fit. Their decision to clone their dead son comes shockingly easy, while I'd be able to safely say that 99% of people in the same situation would at least wait a few months before saying "this is creepy and weird; no thanks".

Add to this the confusing but ultimately boring subplot of De Niro's dead son being somehow mixed into the clone of the dead kid's personality to create a split persona and you've got... well, nothing, really. Nothing at all. Just a muddled mess puked out onto your TV screen.

This movie has no idea what it wants to be. If it was trying to be a poignant argument against cloning, I'm seriously considering reanimating the next dead animal that I see on the side of the road just to spite anyone involved in the making of this film. The ending is the greatest insult of all, as it leaves too many questions unanswered, and unfortunately, can't muster enough energy to make the audience care about those questions in the first place.