When I was very little, some of my friends' fathers who had seen action in World War II were a little odd. Some of them were physically maimed too. A missing thumb. A metal plate where a jaw should have been. You didn't stare and it was rude to ask questions.
Even as a young adult, I had friends who had married "older" men who had seen action in Europe. One had lost a leg at the Normandy landing. It was unusual by then-even a little glamorous. The only inconvenience we were really aware of (other than that limp, of course) was that he had to spring the extra bucks in order to purchase a car with automatic transmission.
The saying "History is written by the victors" is generally true. Viet Nam changed all that. In fact, in the manner of enormous change and disillusionment, it eventually tipped perceptions too far the other way. Seeing "Coming Home" twenty-three years after watching it for the first time, I was still profoundly moved. In retrospect it seems at times pedantic and some of the relatively minor scenes are almost archetypal. 
Despite this, it builds to a shattering climax. Jon Voight (Luke Martin) is excellent as a bitter paraplegic- his performance is better, in fact, as Martin at the nadir of his convalescence. Jane Fonda's performance (Sally Hyde) is strong but at times rather low-key, reflecting perhaps, her role as a stoic military wife. Penelope Milford gives a powerful performance as Vi, the worldly wise friend Sally acquires after the men in their lives go overseas. The scene where Vi "freaks out" is a little unconvincing. The insouciant Vi, who has suffered the heartbreak of her brother's meaningless suicide, should break down in even more excruciating fashion.
Today the officers' wives club in the film seems laughable but was probably not as far-fetched then, when "politically correct" was in a profound state of flux. And it would be nice to think that the FBI surveillance of Luke Martin, merely for chaining himself to a gate at Marine recruiting headquarters, could not happen today.
 The film does a good job of paralleling the slow healing process of Luke Martin with the inexorable descent into misery of Sally's once gung-ho Marine husband Bob (Bruce Dern, whose performance was well deserving of his supporting-Oscar award). There is even a nice little foreshadowing at the Officers Club the night before Bob leaves for Viet Nam. His Colonel sends his wife to wish him well; he himself can't make it because he has a chess game. These undervalued veterans had to endure not only combat but also the angry scorn of people back home. This wasn't the first American film up to that date to examine war and find it wanting. Stanley Kubrick's Paths of Glory (1957) showed what a farce military discipline could be during World War I. William Wyler's "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) was a thoughtful film about the trials of returning World War II veterans. 
But Viet Nam was the first war the Americans well and truly lost, and as such was the first one to be examined with so much contemporary criticism. "Coming Home" is in that sense a "coming of age" film. It seems ironic that we have to be reminded how hard it is to be a warrior. But we do.