The movie Beat Street, has always been one of my favorite movies of all time. Mainly because, it captured three important elements of Hip-Hop, and that was Djing, breaking and Graffiti writing on the subway cars.
  There are so many different scenes that I enjoyed in the movie, but the scene when Kenny was djing in his room before Tracy came in happens to be one of my favorites. I feel this way about that scene because Kenny was zoned out in his own world, and I can relate to this because I'm a dj and I often do this myself. Another one that involves Kenny was when they had the party in the abandoned building, and he starting the party off saying "It's working.....It's working. Wow what a classic scene.
  The battle scene at the Roxy,was and is still to this day, one of the legendary battles to have gone down in Hip-Hop history. To see all the orignal members of The Rock Steady Crew and The New York Breakers battle was just exciting to see to. Even till this day, I don't know how Crazy Legs, took his sneakers off, after doing a backspin.
  The soundtrack to the movie was excellent just as well. Some of my favorite joints that were played in the movie was, LaLa's "Into the night" and C.M.'s "This could be the night"and also the "Beat Street Breakdown" by Melle Mel and The Furious Five. Another one of my favorit scenes, was when Kenny was at The Burning Spear and he was playing D.j Globe and The Whiz Kid's "Play that Beat" with I.O.U. by Freeze. Damn, I wish I was there.
  Today, there are websites and books that you're able to look at different pieces from various graffiti artist like "Lee"- (Wild Style), Dondi-(Style Wars) and Dez just to name a  few. But to actually see it in a movie was a great feeling. Even though a few writers atually did the art work on the subway cars in the movie, Ramon did an excellent job making us believe that he really did it all.
  The movies "Wild Style" and "Style Wars" were some of the first films to ever be made on this sub-culture. But when, "Beat Street" was released, I think it made things brighter for those that were in the darkness about the Hip-Hop culture and what it stood for. Too bad we can't relive the early 80's again.