The artistry of the film is magnificent. Lugosi defined Dracula, and [i forget the actor] defined Renfield (tho they changed his character and merged him with half of Harker's original role. I am willing to say that the film far outdoes Stoker's book and also the German Nosferatu (Is anyone charmed by that ugly, sharp-eared beast?). The Victorian author's vivid description of Harker's stay in Dracula's castle was for me the majority of the book's brilliance. The genius of this film is that no character is anywhere near as illustrious as Dracula, and that is certainly not the sentiment most people have historically felt having read the book. Also, I think the actor that played Renfield was brilliant and is not talked about enough. Lugosi, stripped of his dignity, had the memory of his first (film) role, and one of the few with artistic merit, tho some others are certainly worth seeing. He was buried with his Dracula cape. I also credit Glass for recognizing the merit of this film and writing a full score for it. I recommend playing the film with the new score on, and do not believe it to be a deviation from tradition. The film, however well done, was a Depression-era film, and an original score was never composed. I feel that the film has finally received what it has always been worthy of. It is nice that a (relatively) widely accepted artist such as Glass recognizes this classic and has added to its legacy. The score is wonderful. As for this aspect ratio, it is the original. At one point, I thought that they had always used a wider-screen format. True that the film deviates far from Stoker's original vision. So much the better. The man actually had the gall to say that Dracula was partly inspired by Walt Whitman. And--after they leave the castle, it is a load of sanctimonious hot air justified by the hollow ideals of High-Victorianism. The reinvention of Dracula--much welcomed. By me, anyway. And I know that the book started a huge legacy that I admit I am indebted to personally. Just a little personal sourness towards Stoker. But with me, it is really most all of 19th Century British fiction. The poetry, especially the Romantic poetry, I loved. And I really loved Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. Anyway, a personal prejudice makes me prefer this film over the original book, and incidentally, over any other film version of the story.