I know I will catch hell for this from diehard Pulp Fiction fans, but this is Tarantino's best movie, in my opinion. I can understand why they would feel this way, because I feel like those films are equals, in many ways: both really have no plot, both have great dialogue, and both are very low budget. However, Reservoir Dogs comes out on top for one reason: it is simply more substantial. Pulp Fiction was really just a collage of various gangsters and lowlifes who are vaguely connected to each other; Reservoir Dogs is about a bank heist gone wrong. 
Reservoir Dogs also gets a bad rap from movie critics because they feel that Tarantino liberally ripped-off many Hong Kong action pictures. While this may or may not be legit (I, for one, have never seen any of the foreign films he is supposed to have plagirized), one can clearly see that there is nothing original here, at least as far as plot is concerned. But that in itself is not unusual: look at The Usual Suspects (a very good movie by the way); it is basically a retelling of the themes in Reservoir Dogs, but no one called it a rip-off. That's because it placed more emphasis on characterization than plot (which is the basic idea behind ALL of Tarantino's films). Reservoir Dogs is the same way: an old story made new and exciting by an enthusiastic new director (he was at the time of this movie) and a brilliant cast. 
That being said, we can move on to the movie. As I said before (and countless others before me), this movie is concerned with a bank robbery gone bad: several gangsters (all of which using a color code alias so their identities are kept secret from each other) individually make their way back to their "base" after the failed holdup (which is never shown on the film, except for a very brief flashback occuring outside the bank). Each is convinced that a "rat" is responsible (rat being a traitor, and not a disease carrying rodent, for those of you stupid to gangster lingo). The movie consists of flashbacks that tells how each character got into this mess. After the rat is revealed, all hell breaks loose: I won't go into details.
Tarantino compensates for a non-existent original plot by way of a terrific script (the opening diner scene is a classic example). Also worth mentioning are the conversations during the flashbacks of Mr. Orange. Strong performances are another plus: everyone in this film is flawless and well suited, even Tarantino himself in a brief, but memorable roll. Unlike alot of actor-directors, Tarantino knows his limits and stays within them; as such, he really comes off well with his characters because he doesn't push his limited acting skills front and center. But his part in this movie is very good, albeit very short. Next would be Steve Buscemi, who plays his characteristic weasel with a viciousness that he hardly ever gets to demonstrate. He is absolutely fantastic in this movie. Great performances are also turned in by Michael Madsen and Tim Roth. Madsen is his usual tough-guy self, but puts a spin on it by being a psychopath (and a very funny one, in a deadpan sort of way). As such, it is great fun to watch him because you don't exactly know what will he will do next. Tim Roth is an actor that I think should be getting ALOT more attention these days because he is truly fantastic here (as he was in his brief role in Pulp Fiction; fortunately, in this film, he has a much longer and critical role). He is incredible as Mr. Orange who, while spending alot of the movie bleeding, is torn between a horrible situation that he can't control. Last, but certainly not least, is Harvery Keitel, another vastly underappreciated character actor. Keitel has often been overshadowed in his movies because alot of his early ones were with De Niro. While he often plays the same type of character, he is incredible in this movie because he balances a cold-hearted pragmatism with an emotional involvement (evidenced by his argument with Mr. Pink and, later, his actions in Orange's flashback). Other minor actors (Penn, Tierney) are equally good, but are not on screen as much. 
The low-budget look to the film is a complement to the story's gritty look at honor between thieves. The movie looks like it was shot in the seventies, which is way many people probably accused Tarantino of being a Scorsese poser (not true). The wonderful period music from that time is used extremely well. Tarantino has a true knack for that, which was later made famous by Pulp Fiction's great surf soundtrack. Pulp Fiction, though, doesn't have the great K-Billy (hilariously voiced by Steven Wright). The scenes are all well shot and directed. Contrary to my preconceptions about Tarantino, he is not a fast paced director: many of the scenes are slower paced than most movies. Pulp Fiction is also this way. Reservoir Dogs certainly isn't a slow film, but it is hardly a fast one. Alot of that opinion is probably because of the unbelievably overhyped violence in the movie: aside from a few very brief (though vicious) outbursts of violence (most of which occurs during flashback) this movie contains about as much violence as any cop show on television. It certainly IS violent, but not by the extent that critics have portrayed it. A great example is the infamous "torture" scene. I won't tell what happens, but the hype surrounding this scene is unbelievable and unwarranted, especially since 90% of it isn't even shown on film. However, don't get me wrong: as I said, this is a pretty violent movie, but nothing as violent as an average war movie.
That being said, in short,: great movie. I still think it is slightly better than Pulp Fiction (which, I would like to say, is an AWESOME movie), but rent it for yourself to find out.