It's a hard life being a singer I'm told. In the film "Calvaire" we find out how difficult it truly can be. Marc Stevens (Laurent Lucas) is a singer who is working weddings and retirement homes. Things don't seem to be going too well for Marc as eighty year old women as well as their attendants decide to throw themselves at him. Unfortunately things get much worse for young Marc. On the way to his next gig, Marc's car breaks down in an out of the way hamlet, and he is forced to stay at an inn run by the lonely Bartel (Jackie Berroyer). Bartel takes a liking to the boy and decides that Marc will stick around whether he likes it or not.  The worst part for Marc is that Bartel isn't even the worst citizen in town. What follows is a crash course in depravity for the singer.

"Calvaire" is not a movie that breaks boundaries. The comparison to movies such as "Deliverance", "Misery", and "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" are fairly easy to make. Like the aforementioned films, "Calvaire" is a disturbing movie about kidnapping, violence, rape, and bestiality.  What makes this movie different from others of its genre is the strong performance of Jackie Berroyer as Bartel. As the film progresses, the audience sees Bartel transform from a friendly but lonely inn keeper to a psychotic who misses his wife just a little too much.  Unfortunately, Berroyer's fine performance is not enough.  The appearance of the town's even less savory customers takes the film into a predictable and unfulfilling end.

Despite some problems with the story, and the fact that the movie was obviously shot on a limited budget, "Calvaire" does not suffer technically.  Belgian director Fabri Du Welz did a good job utilizing the materials at hand and shot a thoroughly disturbing movie.

"Calvaire" is another example of the current trend of horror movies that go out of their way to shock people.  Jackie Berroyer's performance does help to differentiate "Calvaire" from its peers, but ultimately it is not enough to make it a compelling film.