I finally figured out what happened to all those characters in the teen slasher movies who somehow found a way to survive until the end credits. They get a little bit older, become scuba divers and star in even messier films like The Cave. Yet they still manage to have the word stupid tattooed on their foreheads.

Somewhere buried deeper inside this movie may be the idea for a good horror movie. Unfortunately, no one in this film would know what to do with it if they found it even if there were a hundred cave explores and/or scuba divers. There is not one second of horror, one second of suspense, nor a modicum of anything remotely horrifying. The film is supposed to take place in an immense cave with oodles of scary cave type creatures lurking about, but for all intents and purposes it could just as easily have been filmed in your bedroom closet. Maybe it was.

On hand we have Cole Hauser who after having recently starred in the film Paparazzi decided to try and hide from that previous embarrassment by becoming entombed here. And when I last saw Morris Chestnut, he was battling giant serpents in another misguided misadventure known as Anacondas. No, it's not true that the snakes swallowed him and spit him out into The Cave. Snakes aren't that cruel. But if you're going to make bad movies, my mother always told me you might as well do them in bunches. The rest of the cast are largely unknowns except maybe for Piper Perabo who manage to wangle this gig in between Cheaper by the Dozen and Cheaper by the Dozen 2. You know her career has been on fire ever since giving such a memorable performance in Coyote Ugly. But you have to take what you can get when you can get it I suppose. It makes no difference. You could plug in any number of has-beens and wannabes into a film like this and nobody would notice. That's probably what this cast is hoping for.

After starting with a silly needless and unnecessary prologue to set the film up and let us know that Yes, Virginia, there really are spooky mysterious caves with horrible creatures, we meet our fun-loving undersea cave exploring crew.

Quickly we are given an explanation to let us know who the leader of the gang is, who his brother is, who the irresponsible one is, and which of the two females will somehow survive for ninety-seven minutes. The only member of the crew that seems to be missing is Scooby-Doo. Then we're off to Never-never cave.

In short order our crew becomes cave creature bait and began to get plucked off one by one. That is except for Jack (Cole Hauser) who suffers a nasty bite and slowly begins to morph into one of the creatures. Hauser then walks through the rest of the film as if the trauma from being bitten means to act like one of the walking dead from George Romero's zombie movies. I take that back, there was no reason for me to start insulting zombies.

We do get to see the cave creatures climbing around, flying around, crawling around, jumping around, and swimming around in the dark. Occasionally we even get to see a blurry close up of them and I could have sworn they were creatures who have been looking for a gig since Alien: Resurrection. It could have been left over stock footage from one of those films but that might have been an improvement this film couldn't afford.

As we see Jack getting a little wackier and more wackier we and his companions are left to decide if he is really trying to save everyone, or have them become varmint fodder. We know Jack is getting a little bit balmy because I think a million dollars of the budget went into special effects on his eyes to let us know this for certain.

The fact is whatever happens to this assortment of adventurers we don't care. We know nothing about them from start to finish, and their only purpose is to be served up as a smorgasbord. We could almost forgive that if director Bruce Hunt had done something to build up any suspense or surprises along the way but he doesn't. Sure it's a cave, and it's supposed to be dark, but incredibly it's only really dark when you want to cover your cheap special effects. Hunt's previous work has come as a second unit and third unit director on The Matrix movies. He obviously shed his training wheels a bit too soon if The Cave is any indication of future work.

The fact is that I might have let this film slip by with a two vote. I mean really, I'm a generous kind of guy. But then someone decided that being bad just wasn't enough. They had to tack on the usual obligatory sequel setting ending and if you have read anything on here I've written about those kinds of endings you know what that means. It means you get one of your stars taken away which is the real reason I only gave it two stars. Amazon does force me to leave you that one. And when I'm forced to do that, I have no choice but to give you my grade and that grade is an F, marked in red, circled and underlined and tossed back into the pothole that this film crawled out of.