I'd heard a lot of hype about this movie, which naturally can be a bad thing at times.  Briefly, as I'm sure there have been other reviews with a synopsis, this movie tells the story of a young girl who has a crush on an older man.  One problem...he is involved in a romantic affair with her older sister.  In a moment of jealousy she accuses him of raping an underaged cousin (the cousin goes along with this for reasons of her own).  His life is ruined and he is sent to prison, her sister becomes estranged from the family and basically the whole incident brings ruin to everyone.  Five years later, she comes to her senses and tries to "atone" (hence the title of the movie) for her former actions.

First the good...this is a well-acted movie.  There can be no complaints for any of the major players in this film.  Some of the more minor characters play British elites to stereotype, but the major players are tight and realistically done.  Also, individual scenes within the movie are nicely done, played for good emotional effect.

However, the movie never really ties together well.  Part of it is the "British" feel of the movie...like many British films (and television) it seems to take FOREVER to get going.  If you didn't know what the plot was going in, you'll spend half an hour wondering what the hell this movie is about.  The movie is never really able to shake it's looseness...even most British films come together once the plot is fully revealed and this one never does.  I was left wondering after watching it why they even included many of the scenes they did...again, as individual scenes they were quite nice, but never really moved the narrative forward.

The ending has an interesting twist...but...it's only a twist because the movie "lies" to you.  Not much more I can say without revealing the twist, but it's a "straw man" twist ending...one which is based on false premises and thus loses its impact once you realize the movie is simply backtracking, not revealing new information that fits into an existing narrative.

So I think, ultimately, that it's a lousy screenplay, but one which is nonetheless well acted and directed. The movie also has an annoying habit of flicking back and forth through time...sometimes this gimmic can work, but here it doesn't.  There never seems to be any good reason for it.  The story could have been told better with a more linear narrative.

Lastly, on the off chance anyone thinks this is a "war" movie (I think some previews teasingly hint at it)...it's not.  Not a single Wehrmacht soldier shows up in the whole film.  The "war" aspect of the film involves British soldiers waiting on the beach at Dunkirk, getting drunk.  Remarkably even the Luftwaffe never seems to show up.

So, if the racks at Blockbuster are really thin this week, this movie might do in a clinch.  But you'll have to be willing to sit through a movie with significant plot holes and disjointed narrative.