I know this movie has gotten mixed reviews, but it is worth watching.  I've seen it many times, &amp; every time it's on cable, I always find myself watching it again.  I do agree with the editorial review about how everything just magically happens in the characters' favor, but *shrug* don't many movies work like that anyway?  The thing that attracted me to it was just the story... the "what if" notion of aliens taking over the planet.  That alone may push some away who don't feel open-minded enough to the possibility...&amp; whether it is or not, it's just a movie.  I myself don't think it's too far-fetched... but, well, I'd have to see it for myself.  So with that in mind, it sort of falls into the fantasy category...with a mix of sci-fi, adventure, &amp; comedy, so with all these genres mixed in, it's fun to watch.
As far as the characters, if you liked Will Smith in Men in Black, you'll certainly like him here.  Randy Quaid's character is similar to the one he played in American Pie.... &amp; actually, at times it feels like it IS the same character.  You'll get a good laugh either way.  Jeff Goldblum is pleasing as the genius cable guy who happens to crack the code that no one else noticed... yah, I know.  Goldblum's character's Jewish dad, played by Judd Hirsch, is likable with his memorable wisecracks. 
Overall, it's not the best movie in the world, but it is entertaining and has many good moments... so there must be some reason cable keeps playing it over &amp; over.  And of course, some of the special effects are really cool.  I didn't see it in the theater, but I'm sure they were even more impressive.  There are some frustrating &amp; aggravating moments (like the virus idea) that many have already pointed out in here, but different things seem to annoy different people, so I'll let you figure it out.  It is also safe enough for a family, esp. if kids are alien fanatics.  If you like movies like this, I'd also suggest Twister, but if you found either of these aggravating, you'd probably find Godzilla even more so.