Well, I told myself I wouldn't take my time to write online reviews, but seeing some negative ones on this movie made me feel the need to speak my mind on this movie.
If you are looking for a true adaptation from the book to the movie, you are going to be dissapointed. Please, as you watch this film, keep in my mind that the people who created this film had a lot they wanted to fit into this movie (being that it is based on two books) and didn't want the movie to drag on.  After seeing the deleted scenes on DVD I feel they should have left the scenes with the ancients in, the scene where Jesse dreams of Akasha (maybe its just me but I love that scene) and the extended dancing of Akasha with her words to Lestat. I fail to see how deleting those scenes made the movie any better.
I was very impressed with Aaliyah's performance. Stuart Townsend's was pretty good as well, along with Margarite Moreau, Lena Olin, and Vincent Perez. Aaliyah haunts the screen in this movie, and the anticipation for her appearence on screen is one of the things that makes this movie so great. You just keep waiting for her to come, the tension building by the minute. And when she finally does come, her performance is mind-blowing. She was made for the role of the mother of all vampires. Who cares if she is black and in the books she is white...she portrays Akasha the most accurately of any of the actors.
At times the dialogue is a bit cheesy ("You're bold, like you're music") but at others it's genius. If you are a fan of the books, please just try to think of this movie as a seperate story and you'll enjoy it just fine.
The special effects are nice as well. This movie is true eye-candy, with Aaliyah and Stuart leading the whole thing, with Margarite (who has a major role in this movie and acts its well, but was skipped out on by many reviewers and got some greif for previously starring in the 'Mighty Ducks' trilogy) following close behind, hating Akasha for 'stealing her man' all the way there.  The music in this movie is excelent, it is on par with the film.
As for the DVD, it has bouns features galore, including three excellent documentaries and a hilarious gag reel.
I would give this movie an A- and the only thing I could wish for in the movie is if they would have explained the story of Akasha's history and the anient vampires, but then again that would make the movie extremely long. "All Hail the Queen."
(Oh and those who say you can't watch it in the computer or on a game system lie, because I watched it on a Playstation 2 and a computer.)