Stanley Kubrick's "Paths of Glory" is the best war movie -- or, rather, the best anti-war movie -- ever made, and that includes "All Quiet on the Western Front" and "Grand Illusion". Based on a novel by Humphey Cobb (which in turn was based on a real event), the story follows the fates of three French soldiers accused of cowardice in 1916. "Paths of Glory" was not exactly a box office smash when it was released in 1957; and evidently it completely puzzled the Academy -- though, strangely enough, an anti-war epic, "The Bridge on the River Kwai", was chosen 1957's Best Picture, but that fine film was in color and wide-screen. (I knew an ex-Marine who was horrified by "Paths of Glory", though he basked in the CinemaScope sentimentality of 1955's "Battle Cry".) Directed by Kubrick when he was only 28 from a screenplay written by himself, Jim Thompson, and the shamefully under-rated novelist Calder Willingham, the film's plot hinges on its first scene, a meeting between two French generals, expertly played by Adolphe Menjou and George Macready, the latter's facial scar emphasized by overhead lighting. Menjou has come to Macready to discuss the absolute importance of Macready's men capturing a strategic (and impregnable) German outpost -- mentioning, en passant, that Macready is up for a promotion, provided. Macready's character is one of those paragons of impatience who speaks of troops as though they were mat&eacute;riel. During the harrowing and unsuccessful attack on the enemy's bastion, he is so infuriated by the lack of advance he commands his battery to turn their guns on their own men, an astonishing order that plays an important part in the plot's outcome. Menjou's character is more mysterious: it's difficult to tell if he tempting people or testing them. The star of the movie is Kirk Douglas as the humane Colonel Dax, commander of the regiment ordered to take the "ant hill". It's a strong performance of restrained idealism; only near the end is Douglas allowed one of the big outbursts for which he was noted. It is he who must act as defense lawyer when Macready insists that three men of the Colonel's regiment -- one man from each battalion -- be placed before court martial, charged with cowardice in the face of the enemy. The three actors Ralph Meeker, Timothy Carey, and Joseph Turkel are excellent, playing three very different soldiers, all of them facing a French firing squad. The supporting cast includes Wayne Morris, who played College Joe types in the Thirties, giving a subtle portrayal of a weak alcoholic, and Richard Anderson, Mr Nice Guy at Metro, thoroughly unlikeable here as the court martial's prosecutor. "Paths of Glory" was photographed by George Krause with an eye for the atmosphere of the Great War; the only thing lacking is sepia. There's an exciting cut in the film's second half. Colonel Dax is in his quarters, tired and depressed, when a battery commander enters, saying he has information which may have a bearing on the court martial. Dax immediately perks up and says "Come in". Then the camera cuts, not to the commander but to a smiling, somewhat oily retainer crossing a ballroom floor to the strains of "The Emperor Waltz". It's a stunning depiction of the contrast between trench life and the luxury in the upper ranks on the Western Front. Nothing about "Paths of Glory" presents war as anything like la gloire idealized by the French, and the mood of the entire movie, including the climatic scene, is summed up in the title, when one realizes it is taken from a poem by Thomas Gray: "The paths of glory lead but to the grave".