The Covenant, as many other reviewers have stated, is what I imagine an animated horror / sci-fi Gap poster would look like. Lots of skinny kids dressed in designer clothes, fitting neatly into perfect teenager sterotypes, and speaking in robotic brain-dead two-word sentences.

The entire movie feels as if its based on every stereotype they could squeeze into the film. The incesant rain and thunder, the long haired "bad-boy" biker, the clean-cut athletic jock protagonist, the blonde just-transfered-in and is perfectly innocent protagonist's girlfriend, and the list goes on... its really quite laughable.

And don't worry about the plot. If you felt you might be missing something in the story line, it's just not there. I will say, however, that the plot could have been interesting. A continuation of the blood line of witches prosecuted in the Salem Witch Trials could have been a fertile start to an interesting story. But its not. Its only as deep as the two-word long sentences that plague the dialogues let it be. It's extremely predictable as well. Having never watched the movie before, you will probably find yourself mouthing the next line from each character.

The only real plus for the movie is the quality of the special effects which is on par with most sci-fi movies today. Though the cinematography turns around and quickly kills what the movie had going for it. How many times can a viewer watch a Mustang GT or Ducatti motorcycle whizz by before they start thinking its rediculous? I'm not sure, but they attempted to find out in this film. There are also way too many "set the scene" shots with the camera floating aimlessly around looking at buildings and trees and butterflys and little kids picking their noses. Ok, so I'm exagerating a little but these scenes really are used too much in the film. I guess they were looking for filler since the dialogue wasn't going to provide it.

The final fight scene was also about as unoriginal as could be produced. If it had been set in the middle of a city, it would have been a direct copy of the third Matrix movie. The endless knocking each other back and forth and flying through walls with nobody ever seeming to get hurt. Sure they act shocked and grunt and moan... but how many walls can a guy go through before he's had too much!?

I know I'm knocking this film around about as much as the antagonist and protagonist do to each other in the final "fight," but that's because its horrible. My honest opinion is that the underdeveloped plot, brain-dead dialogue, and rip-off scenes were all written / copied by a 15 year old kid because most of the elements of this movie would appeal to someone that age. Everyone else will just laugh at how horrible it is and then flip over to an episode of "Everybody Loves Raymond."