I'm happy to see a reasonably priced dvd edition of this fun fifties science fiction adventure will be available soon.  However, I've noticed some reviewers are decrying that the movie will not be in widescreen.  Well, that's because the movie was NEVER filmed in a widescreen format.  It was released in a Standard Full Frame screen format in exactly the same dimensions as the 1953 'War of the Worlds' was released.  People, please check the facts before spouting off inaccuracies that only incite discord and misinform the public.  I attended a science fiction film festival years ago at the American Film Institute in Washington D.C. where they showed all of the major SF films of the fifties in their original formats.  'This Island Earth' was NOT a widescreen feature.  'Forbidden Planet' YES! 'This Island Earth' NO!  Examine all of the original advertising for the movie and you will not find any evidence of the film being shot in 'Widescreen', 'Cinemascope', 'VistaVision' or any other popular moniker for widescreen shooting of that era.  And, back then, had the movie been shot in widescreen they would have played it up BIG as a further draw to bring into the theatres the fledgling television crowd.  Also, consult Philip Riley's excellent treatise on 'This Island Earth' (Magicimage Filmbooks, 1990) and you will find no mention among the author's extensive coverage of the film's production that the movie was ever shot in a widescreen format (nor that it was ever even considered as a widescreen production). So, take heart all you SF fans and dvd aficianados and buy your copy of 'This Island Earth' with confidence knowing that you're not getting cheated out of a WS experience - because there was never one in the first place.  Then sit down and enjoy one of the best space adventures of the fifties!

****>IMPORTANT (June 14, 2006 ADDENDUM): One reviewer in this mix keeps insisting that this movie was in widescreen.  IMDb is being trotted out as the authority to turn to.  Well, IMDb IS QUITE SIMPLY, WRONG!! (No surprise here)  'THIS ISLAND EARTH' WAS NOT, IS NOT AND NEVER WILL BE A WIDESCREEN MOVIE (unless it's butchered)!  If there is a copy on vhs in a 'Widescreen', 'Cinemascope', 'VistaVision' or 'Ultrawide Scope' (whatever that may be!) format then it's because the vhs/dvd distributors forced it into a widescreen format by cropping the frames to make it look like a WS version - much like the late 1960's re-release of 'Gone with the Wind' which was cropped at the the top and bottom of the frames, transferred to 70mm film stock and released to the theatres as a 'wider' version (to the horror of GWTW fans) .  And, as all competent film buffs know, 'Gone with the Wind' was also NOT a widescreen movie (mercifully, it's been restored to its Standard Full Frame format for the dvd release).  So, if y'all want Universal to release a 'widescreen' version of 'This Island Earth' they'll have to butcher the film by cropping it to give the illusion that it's a WS feature.  I can't think of a more boneheaded approach to releasing a film on dvd just to appease the misguided, misinformed and perpetually ignorant WS crowd.