In 2001 "The Fast and the Furious" was testimony to the unexpected lure of a howling engine, blue smoke from spinning tires, and hot dudes and babes in even hotter cars. Oh yeah, and the moody glower of breakout star Vin Diesel.
So what do you do for the sequel? More smoke, babes, dudes and howling. And no Diesel. 
The result? Well, as expected, director John Singleton ("Boyz N the Hood") did not make a movie as good as "FF1." This is way better. 
How is it better? Let us count the ways. First, he got rid of all the extraneous stuff -- like plot. "2 Fast 2 Furious" has something to do with money and drugs, but Singleton wisely doesn't spend too much time sweating the details. Basically, it boils down to one of two situations: The guys have something and must drive 120 mph to escape with it, or they are after something and must drive 120 mph to capture it. 
Second, the lumpish presence of Diesel and his biceps is barely missed at all. Like the first version, this film seems to be set up as a star vehicle for blue-eyed, Steve McQueenesque Paul Walker. But once again it looks as if the sidekick walks off with the movie. 
An actor, rapper and model, Tyrese (as Walker's pal Roman Pearce) brings something new to Diesel's role as the moody, hard-driving loner -- a personality. He's not just buffed and cocky, he's got such a nice way with a one-liner that he grows on you. 
Like virtually everyone else in the sequel, Tyrese was not part of the original. This is exactly the same movie as the first one except for the fact that almost all the actors have changed, it is now set in Miami instead of Southern California, and a Cuban drug dealer (Cole Hauser of "White Oleander") has been added as a villain. 
The constant is that these are still the sort of hot-wheelers who -- when a 20-foot jump is unexpectedly inserted at the end of a white-knuckle race -- find it to be an exhilarating and amusing development. They sail hundreds of feet through the air hollering "Whoooooooo!" at the top of their lungs, and have a good laugh about it at the finish line. (No one gets hurt, of course, despite the lack of helmets, seat belts or parachutes.) 
The new premise is that Walker's character, Brian O'Conner, has been kicked off the police force and is scratching out a borderline existence in Florida as a street racer. His buddy, Tej (rapper Ludacris, an improvement over Ja- Rule in "FF1"), runs the garage, finds him races and helps him live the car culture life. Call it "Boyz Under the Hood." 
O'Conner needs money and is offered a chance to make some -- and, of course, 
clear his name -- on an undercover job with U.S. Customs. In an amazing coincidence, the undercover agent he is working with happens to be a gorgeous brunette (Eva Mendes of "Training Day"). He also picks up his pal Roman (Tyrese) to help run the scam. And we're off. 
RIVETING DRAG RACES
One nice touch is that in Miami they are apparently not into that boring, side-by-side drag racing from "FF1." This is real street racing with NASCAR- style fender-rubbing and bumper-bumping. There are at least three set pieces in which cars careen through traffic, cutting off semitrailers, skidding across lanes and creating spectacular crashes. It is riveting -- except for those who have driven there, who will recognize it as just another typical day on a Miami freeway. 
However, it should be said that Singleton does a nice job of keeping the gratuitous violence to a minimum. Nothing says summer film fun like explosions, 
guns and cartwheeling cars -- and that's all here -- but the gore and mayhem is restrained. The scene you'll be talking about afterward, involving a rat, a bucket and a blowtorch, is especially clever since its effect depends almost entirely on the viewer's imagination, not grisly details. 
The rest of the action is more likely to spark interest in high-performance racing gear than gunplay. 
HIGH-SPEED FANTASY
There will probably be a rash of concerned citizens who decry the crazy driving showcased in the film. But the FF movies may be saving the clutch-and- shift car from extinction. (Although someone should point out that there is not a street racer in the world that has a gear that can be engaged at 114 mph to make the car go faster.) 
At the end, the whole thing makes no more sense than the conclusion, an implausible, pointless, high-speed leap over hundreds of feet of water. But that doesn't mean you won't be hollering "Whoooooooo!" all the way.