Did the writer of the screenplay even READ Hugo's masterpiece novel? This movie may be nice-looking, have a generally excellent cast (with the exclusion of the whiny Claire Danes as Cosette), but in everything else, it  falls sickeningly short of the mark. First off, one of Hugo's chief themes  in Les Miserables is redemption; Jean Valjean becomes a saint-like man  after being saved by the kindly Bishop of Digne, he goes from an embittered  man to a gentle, merciful man, not a wicked convict to a frightened man on  the run! This film lost that essence of redemption and thus lost one of the  most important parts that made Les Miserables what it is. Also, we were  shown that the screenplay writer obviously didn't know who was who in the  novel; Marius takes the place of the god-like (they liken him to Apollo in  the novel) Enjolras as the student leader, they completely lose the  political pun of the Friends of the A B C (ah-BAY-SAY! )... and other small  errors that are altogether a display of laziness or dispassion on the part  of the writers. The insurrection of the students gets turned into a five  minute action scene that serves no purpose in the film thanks to the loss  of an ample description of the troubles in Paris.

 But back to  characterization problems. As above, Valjean has become a harsh, paranoid  old man on the run, whereas Javert has become a selfish, overly ambitious  cop with an unhealthy obsession and a nasty personality. Cosette has become  a headstrong, spoiled little brat as opposed to a kindly young lady in  love, and Marius... Marius has turned into Enjolras with his hair dyed  black, too many freckles, and a talent for writing love letters in his  spare time. Oh yes- one more question. Where are the Thenardiers and their  daughters? For that matter-- why didn't the other students get their  moments in the spotlight? If a musical can do a better job at illustrating  the theme and characterizations true to the novel on which it's based--  something is most certainly wrong with this film. There are countless more  mistakes in this film, but some have already been mentioned in other  reviews, and there are simply too many to be counted... A pity; this film  could have had promise, being taken off of such a beautiful story...