This is a movie you can screen many times, yet derive full enjoyment on each occasion. It is epic filmmaking on the grand scale, with the opulence, technicolor, sets, costumes, music, and budget that MGM would lavish on many quality costume epics of the period. The direction by Raoul Walsh is taut. The cinematography is gorgeous. Cecil Forester helped with the adaptation, and, as a result, the script is true to his character and the stories. On a personal note, I was given the Hornblower books to read by my father in the late 1950's after I had checked a book out of the library "Barbary Pirates" by the same author (Random House Landmark series). My father had seen the movie when it was released (I was 2 years old), and became interested in the character. Gregory Peck is perfect as the tightly controlled, yet compassionate naval commander. In fact, it would be impossible to imagine any other actor so perfectly realizing this hero of the Napoleonic Wars. The screenplay covers the middle of Hornblower's career by weaving a story based on "Beat to Quarters", "Ship of the Line", and "Flying Colors". These were the first three novels to be completed in the series by C. S. Forester. He seemed to have enjoyed writing these earlier novels more than some of the later ones that completed the chronology. The action scenes are incredible, reeking with authenticity. The cast is excellent, especially all of the character actors comprising Hornblower's crew. My personal favorite is James Justice (Seaman Quist). You can almost smell the salt brine in the air. Other films of Forester's novels include "Pride and the Passion" (based on a short novella, "The Gun"), and the brilliant "African Queen". Fans of this movie should also screen the 1952 MGM release "Scaramouche", a superb adaptation of the Rafael Sabatini novel. The attention to detail and quality of production in both films is comparable. "Scaramouche" features one of the most impressive swordfights in movie history. A wonderful experience!