I bought this film because I am a fan of the BBC comedy Coupling, and in the bio notes on actor Richard Coyle, this piece is listed prominently among his previous screen credits.  I was amazed -- the same actor who plays sex-obsessed, socially inept Jeff on Coupling, as a dashing, heroic, romantic leading man in a period piece?  This, I had to see, so I set out to hunt this down.

Well, I have now watched the film twice, and I am glad I spent my money on it.  I vaguely remember the original book (read it more years ago that I care to admit to), and what I remember, the film follows fairly well.  I am not up on the nuances of that period of history, so if there are anachronisms, they went right past me and didn't in any way spoil my enjoyment.

Richard Coyle filled the boots of noble farmer John Ridd in excellent style, and I discovered that the man is devilishly handsome, especially when he smiles, a fact that escaped my notice in his portrayal of Jeff, whose manic, left of center personality distracts you from paying attention to that. I'd wondered how far his range would stretch -- well, it appears to have the elasticity of a bungee cord; I didn't flash on Jeff once in the entire two and a half hours, which is a tribute to the actor's skill.

Amanda Warner, as Lorna, was everything she should have been; innocent in many ways, much too wise in others, cameo pretty and with unexpected backbone.  Her confrontation with John over the letters was very well done, as Lorna tries to remain aloof as her heart breaks over the supposed abandonment (I'm really not sure why she allowed Gwennie to remain with her after that, I'm not sure I'd have been that forgiving).

The supporting cast was uniformly excellent -- special nods to the performers playing Judge Jeffries, Counsellor Doone, Captain Stickles, and Ruth Huckaback (my apologies for not listing names here, I can't remember them .... )who truly stood out in the ensemble.

My only true gripe with the performances, and I don't know if I can put the blame on the performer, the writer, or the director, must fall on Aiden Gillen.  His Carver was just a bit too over the top, and played as more of a caricature than a character -- I never felt that he really cared for Lorna, more that he saw her as a means to an end, a possession (got the same feeling from Billy Zane's character in Titanic, too).  If they could have made his feelings come out more, I probably would have been all right with the rest.

In all, I was very pleased with the film, and I will cheerfully watch it again.  If you want an absorbing period piece to whisk you into another time and place, I recommend this one.