I wish, just once that I could give a product six stars. Only once, and ONLY for this movie. Mel Brooks hilarious look at racism, skulduggery, and "the old west" is not only the very funniest movie ever made (one that can be watched again and again), but also one of the very best westerns ever made (second only to Buono, il brutto, il cattivo, Il - which is simply the best movie ever made). Mel Brooks has a supporting role in this film, as he usually does, but the joke Harvey Korman has in his monologue is only the funnier as the lovely and talented Madeline Kahn actually WON the Oscar! Clevon Little stars, as Richard Pryor (who co-wrote the film) was unable to film due to prior commitments. Clevon Little nailed his part so perfectly that he became a central piece of history (as the star of the funniest movie ever made). His untimely death was a a loss to Hollywood.

Okay, so about the movie: Sheriff murdered, people stampeded, and cattle raped. The town of Rock Ridge wires the governor (Mel brooks) for a *new* sheriff and gets a "black one" (Clevon Little), who turns out to be the smartest, and sanest person in town. Helped by the great Gene Wilder (a longtime friend of Mel brooks), they save the day from "Hedley" Lamar (Harvey Korman in his best role ever) and Slim Pickens (in his best role outside of Dr. Strangelove). The acting really *is* that good. The humor is genuine, with only one fart scene (probably the original extended fart scene) and the undertones of exactly how STUPID racism is and how STUPID racists are, are dealt with, with so much humor that it comes across as truly enjoyable and hard to find offensive. Mel Brooks pushes all boundaries to teach us valuable life lessons while making us laugh so hard that we sometimes fail to notice exactly how seriously he takes these things. This will ultimately be seen as Mel Brooks' greatest work far and away. He had originally wanted to call the movie Black Bart (a spoof itself of the pirate genre naming convention), but he was continuously shot down and finally relented, and so we have "Blazing Saddles." The closest movie of greatness to this masterpiece of Mel's greatness is Young Frankenstein, which is a must-own as well. Lesser vehicles of Mel Brooks' humorous genius are History of the World (Part 1), and The Producers - both highly entertaining. Life Stinks and Robin Hood - Men in tights can be avoided.

I have avoided giving too many details of the film as spoilers do not help you decide whether to see a movie or not. You MUST see this movie before you die. That is all there is to it. If you have any sense of humor, you will more than likely love this movie.