Movie goers these days may be coming to their senses, suffering month after month the same cookie cutter plots, characters, CGI, *s*t*a*r*s* appearing over and over like a familiar pickpocket or scam artist at the intersection.  I don't want to mention any names but one in particular moves like concrete through the recent Terminator clone.  Really, how many more scenes of robot feet crushing human skulls can one sit through?

Producers take no risks these days and certainly would never risk the sort of exotic and arabesque excursions into dark human themes that make a movie like THE COMPANY OF WOLVES.  The immortal Angela Carter originated the story and collaborated on the movie adaptation, retelling the folktale of Little Red Riding Hood, bringing up from the blood depths as only she could the predatory nature of human sexuality, and the link of myth to our animal origins.  It's a remarkable movie contrasting the plaster construct of societal rules against the organic thrust of existence in all its violence.  Her characters move carefully, subdued to stifled whispers, cowed by the unfettered nature that howls all about them, that swallows them whole.  The performances of David Warner, Angela Lansbury and Stephen Rea as a young brides-groom going with the wolves in a full moon before he can consummate his marriage, haunt the montage with an understated sense of doom.  The jungle forest where the wolves run wild and free is littered with dolls and toys.  The very streams seem to run with the blood of fresh kill.  The colors do that to you, fill your mind with the smell of rapacious abandon.  You can feel the sensation.  Not bad for a B movie.  Not bad at all.  I congratulate the lot.  If you ever get the chance, find Angela's book SAINTS AND STRANGERS and read the similar story, "Peter and the Wolf."  She wrote wonderfully in her life.  Her loss to us by cancer is incalculable.

Despite the occasional clumsy special effect,  THE COMPANY OF WOLVES works quite well and is a welcome change of scenery from the usual formulaic dreck of recent years.  This dvd version is in widescreen and not quite for the little ones.  Rated R.  It's one to see over and over again.