"Quo Vadis" is a great film Directed by Mervyn LeRoy, Starring: Robert Taylor, Deborah Kerr, Leo Genn and Peter Ustinov with splendid cinematography, fabulous sets and costume designs, magnificently photographed by Robert Surtees. "An Spectacular True 1950Th's Classic."

This jewel of a movie "Quo Vadis" whose copyrights are owned by "TIME-WARNER INC." it's nonetheless still sitting idle at their MGM/UA Turner Collection's Library without any official restoration on DVD, even when released in 1951, it did became the 2nd highest box office take in "Hollywood's Film History." Surpased only by the epic "Gone With The Wind."

The restoration should be presented in a format preserving the aspect ratio of its original theatrical exhibition. But unfortunately right now, only some appalling import copies of it are circulating the internet, selling some for over $35 a piece.

I can't comprehend why Time Warner Home Video have not noticed this problem and take some action to correct this oversight sooner rather than later. So at this point, that "The Studio" is about to re-issue in September 13, 2005 the "Collector's Edition of Ben-Hur." We feel that "QUO VADIS," which also was produced by Sam Symbalist, could become a very profitable asset, if only this film that deals with "The First Judeo/Christian Holocaust" is put on a fast track by Warner Brothers for a late 2005 release in conjunction with the "Collector's Edition Ben-Hur."

Ideally along also with two other classic films that are at Warner Brothers Film Library Vault. The first one "Land of The Pharaohs" by Director Howard Hawks, Starring: Joan Collins and Jack Hawkins (who also starred in "Ben-Hur.") This film screenplay was done by no other than the great American writer William Faulkner. The second feature is "The 4 Horsemen Of The Apocalypse," Directed by Vicente Minnelli, Starring: Glenn Ford, Ingrid Thulin, Charles Boyer, Lee J. Cobb and Paul Heinreid, Co-starring: Paul Lucas, Yvette Mimeux and Karl Boehm. It's a searing drama, in which the Nazi monster set brother against brother following the family's destructive linkup to the sinister horrors of Nazi Germany. A perfect match for another very profitable Warner Brothers DVD release dealing whith this Nazi subject matter: The legendary Luchino Visconti's "THE DAMNED."

All these Great Classic films of "Hollywood's 1950Th 'poque" should already have been released on anamorphic widescreen or presented in a format preserving the aspect ratio of its original theatrical exhibition on DVD. Unfortunately, perhaps due to an oversight by someone at Time Warner Studios, all of them are still gathering star dust at "Warner Brothers Film Library Vault." Without generating any revenues for The Studio or otherwise providing to us some pleasurable joy when we add them to our "DVD Home Video Collections."

Can somebody please remind "TIME-WARNER INC." that they still got "These Three Golden Classic Movies" waiting to be released on DVD, which also can be very apropos films for the times we live.