Think about it.  Sterling Hayden.  Ted de Corsia.  Elisha Cook, Jr. Joe Sawyer. Jay C. Flippen.  How in the world could THIS assortment of misfits, have nots, and bunglers ever pull off "The Big Heist?"

Then throw in the drooling, snarling, sociopathic Tim Carey and presumed wrestler Kola Kwarian (who would be marvelous if you could understand 30% of what he's talking about), and you have a motley crue of amateurs  that could screw up a liguor store job.

But watching the inevitable unraveling of the  "perfect crime" is non-stop fun worth viewing time and again.

As if these guys ever had a chance, Marie Windsor, Vince Edwards, and the ubiquitous (especially in Kubrick films) Joe Turkel are on the scene determined to  cut themselves in on the take and, of course, wind up complicating matters even worse.

In  many ways, this film is a companion piece to "The Asphalt Jungle," another Hayden vehicle  where  the caper is way over the heads of the losers who are trying to  pull it off.

At least the brains of the outfit in "Jungle," Sam Jaffe as Erwin "Doc" Riedenschneider, is a pro, albeit one with a fatal flaw.

But, in this film, Hayden's Johnny Clay is just an engaging, well intentioned buffoon.

The very last shot is priceless. I won't give it away, but suffice it to say that you leave the film feeling exactly  as Johnny would have.

With the exception of Coleen Gray, who, as Johnny's dutiful, awestruck girlfriend, turns in another embarrassing performance  rivaling the primer of bad acting she gave us in "Kiss of Death,"  the rest of the cast is spectacular.

Ted de Corsia and Carey particularly shine as the indebted, crooked cop and homespun professional killer, respectively.

After watching  de Corsia in "The Enforcer," "The Joker is Wild," and this film, you can't help but think that Central Casting must found him in San Quentin and convinced the parole board to grant an early release.

And Carey purloins a scene from the star by rubbing his eye,  yawning, spitting, and hilariously doing everything else he can think of to lure the camera away from Hayden.

The one  aspect of this film that becomes a bit dificult to stomach is the constant  haranguing and verbal abuse that Marie Windsor heaps on her feckless husband, Cook.

But then, he probably deserved it for kicking Bogart in the face in "The Maltese Falcon."