I really enjoyed this film. The first time I watched it was when I was in high school, and the sheer realism of the FX made me physically ill. But I was also enthralled. How did they DO that?!? This was back when they couldn't just farm out a scene to a group of CGI techies and have them punch up an intrusively obvious digital effect (almost every obnoxious frame of "Spawn" comes to mind). The ingenuity and hard work it took to produce so many high-impact visual effects that were so convincing is just mind boggling. 
I've heard various complaints about the story's dearth of likeable characters. A character does not have to be likeable to be interesting. Characters are also vital in their ability to move the story along. The personal conflicts within the group of survivors is the dynamic that keeps the story moving. I also think most everyone's reaction to the movie would have been far more negative if the various soldiers that had been ripped apart in such graphic detail were sympathetic characters. Imagine if instead of professional soldiers they had been young cadet volunteers from a military school, and it was good-natured but inexperienced teenagers being violently torn limb from blood-spattered limb. Not cool. But luckily they weren't, they were insufferable psychotic a**holes and we relished every gory moment of their grisly demise.
I wish that the relationship between Sarah and Miguel could have been more firmly established. The lewd and suggestive comments made by the other soldiers to Sarah about "her boyfriend" did not quite portray their relationship to a satisfactory degree. I feel it might have been further explored through perhaps flashbacks to earlier experiences they had shared. It would have helped us understand how much the two of them had been changed by what they had gone through. Miguel begins the film as a sweaty, neurotic, verbally combative jerk. You wonder a little bit why Sarah cares about him in the first place. It is difficult to have empathy for him as he deteriorates further because we never knew him when he was more likeable. I think that Sarah was a little underdeveloped, (What sort of doctor is she? How did she come to be here? Did she have a family?) but that she still made a very viable heroine that you could root for and care about. Strong women characters in a story are awesome. Unless that is the only thing they are: strong. Michelle Rodriguez's character in "Resident Evil" was this sort of one-dimensional character. Sigourney Weaver's character in "Alien" and "Aliens" on the other hand was also very tough and capable but she was also multi-talented, brave, and had emotions other than just arrogance and anger. Sarah has that same sort of depth of character that endears her to the audience. 
"Day" is by no means a perfect film, but it has so much to offer as a fun and scary cinematic experience. Also when you hear about the budget constraints that George Romero, Tom Savini, and the rest of the crew worked under, (by choice no less!), you gain a greater appreciation for just what an accomplishment it was. A lot of other people have used budgets an order of magnitude larger and made films that can only be used to show to disobedient prisoners as punishment in some of our tougher prisons. Apparently Romero was given the chance to more than double his meager budget of $3 million if he made a movie bland enough to be given an R rating. Romero had the guts to turn down the offer of more money, knowing that he would hold truer to his vision with a smaller budget than with the strait-jacket of the MPAA. He might not have been able to make a movie to the scale that he had envisioned in his original script, but he did make a unique horror film with memorable characters, imaginative locations, and stunning hardcore FX that is deserving of every ounce of its cult popularity.  
This special edition DVD set from Anchor Bay is definately worth the money. The gorgeous Divimax transfer of the film itself is stunningly crisp and vibrant, and the sound is just fantastic. The commentary tracks included on the feature disc are fun and informative to listen to. It is especially interesting to hear the often surprised reaction from the other commentators when one of them mentions a certain piece of trivia, or a particular tidbit of information. The extra disc containing the making of documentary, interviews with the cast, video taken on the set during filming, etc. is also quite absorbing and very well put together. Even the keep case is carefully designed to be creepy and disturbing. If I had to voice one gripe it would be the lack of Closed Captions. I hope more of my favorite films are given such lavish attention when brought to DVD.