This concert originally took place in 1992 when Michael Jackson was at the peak of his legendary career. It aired live on HBO and although there were several thousand people in attendance, it was seen by millions more around the world. 17 years and 2 months after his death, I had to buy the DVD. From the moment he exploded onto the stage, I knew I would not regret watching.

And I was not disappointed.

Before I proceed, I do want to correct the two reviewers before me: Michael Jackson is a perfectionist when it comes to his craft. He said himself on multiple occasions he does not believe in cheating his fans and supporters. To that end, Michael Jackson does not Lip Synch. This little-known fact was brought to light when he asked Paula Abdul (the very same from American Idol) to help him with the Librarian Girl Music Video (which he also directed and produced). MJ does not go halfway and thus when he sings live, you're hearing HIS voice, not ths track.

1. Jam*
2. Wanna Be Startin' Something
3. Human Nature
4. Smooth Criminal
5. I Just Can't Stop Loving You
6. She's Out of My Life
7. I Want You Back/The love You Save
8. I'll Be There
9. Thriller
10. Billie Jean
11. Workin' Day & Night
12. Beat It
13. Will You Be There*
14. Black Or White*
15. Heal The World*
16. Man In The Mirror

* On Dangerous Album

Although only four of songs he performed were from the actual albumn, the songs he performed more than made up for this. In Jam, The King of Pop demonstrates his versatility by doing a sideways Moonwalk. In Wanna Be Startin' Something and Human Nature, he serinades to the audience. With Smooth Criminal, Michael Jackson does an amazing adaptation of the Music Video (which was actually a scene from the forgotten musical/movie Moonwalker) of the same name--complete with his patented 540 degree lean. The song ends with MJ turning back at his backup dancers while they're shot with invisible bullets. The lights dim while stagehands drag them from backstage.

MJ transforms from badboy to Romeo with I Just Can't Stop Loving You and gives one lucky fan a night she will never forget while performing She's Out of My Life. MJ takes us back to his days as a member of the Jackson 5 with I Want You Back, The Love You Save and I'll Be There. At the end of the third song, he calls out each of his brothers by name, a spotlight shining on empty microphones behind him.

MJ brings us back to the 80s as he does the two songs that essentially earned him MTV's Male Artist of the Millenium: Thriller and Billie Jean. He ends Thriller with a disappearing act, only to reappear as Billie Jean begins to play. Here, Michael Jackson does a pair of Moonwalks and demonstrates the footwork that some say inspired a later album--Blood on The Dance Floor.

Workin' Day & Night was prettymuch a transitional song, as right after it ended (which another disappearing act) he went right into Beat It. He begins the song atop a lift that moves him over the audience as he sings. When he returns to the stage he reinacts the last 2 and a half minutes of the Beat It Music Video. There is an intermission as MJ prepares for the next song.

This one may look familiar if you've seen the 1995 film Free Willy--clips from the movie and this concert were used to make a Music Video for the motion picture. I prefer this version of Will You Be There (the performance over the Music video) myself. Another intermission follows but this time we are treated with the controversial Black or White scenes that originally aired when the music video was introdiced to the world on MTV, Fox and VHI. After the interlude, MJ does the actual song.

The concert wraps up with Heal the World and Man in the Mirror. Speculation states the child MJ holds at the end of Heal The World is Prince Michael--his first son. Of course, this can't be possible as the concert took place 2 years before he married Lisa Marie Presley. At the end of Man in the Mirror, MJ ends the concert in the one way that could possibly top his electrifying performance. You'll have to see it yourself because I'm not telling.

In closing, I would like to say this. Michael Jackson's music is what he's most famous for. Despite all of his personal problems (he is human, after all), there's no denying he was a very talented performer.