As horror movies go, this is the leader of them all on many levels. It's a very intelligent, thought-provoking film. The horror in this movie cannot be catagorized and rationalized in any human capacity. For this reason, it is so unfathomable and unrealistic to people that they tend to come away amused and confused. But for those that dare to understand the meanings in this film, the reality of it all leaves you shaken to the very core-reaching for what little faith you have in your humble human existence. The evil portrayed in this film is not physical or tangible in any form: there are no serial killers here, no Jasons, no Freddy Kruegars. What we are dealing with here is evil in its' purest form. We avoid this movie, we're ignorant, we nervously laugh off its' implications but it's there. For how can you fight something that has no form? Something that is nowhere yet everywhere? Something that knows past, present and future? Something that is inside of you yet outside of you? Something that is part of you yet apart from you? Surely these are the questions that little Regan must be asking herself in whatever awareness she has left of herself apart from the spirits' presence within her.The reaity of this brings up other questions and realizations. Specifically, theological ones. The spirit is powerful, yes, but he does have his weaknesses but not in any human sense. He is as much a servant of Jesus as we are although on a different plane of existence. He knows this and he seeks to make us despair about our humanity. As you can see, he does this in the most obscence, disturbing, animal-like ways possible.(The masturbation with the cross) He takes our weaknesses and uses it against us, (Father Karras and his guilt over his mother.)In the end, we are sure of only two things and these two things we can never prove in any human capacity: Our faith in Jesus to love and forgive us for our sins and the gift that he gave us apart from his everlasting love: free will. For it is this free will that enables us to hold on to any vestiges of ourselves in struggling with the spirits. (The HELP ME that is written on Regan's stomach.)It is this inner struggle that brings on the convulsions and physical pain to poor Regan's body. She is fighting it barely. This is the stage that THE EXORCIST is played out on. For those of you who are already shaking your heads, I'd like to add this: Science is forever seeking life on other planets. Knowing the biological tree of life: humans... fish... bacteria... nanobacteria.. etc... life is in abundance. How arrogant are we to believe that life and inteligence stops with us? That if we can't measure it with our meager tools, it doesn't exist? What if?  JUST WHAT IF?  These are the questions that THE EXORCIST raises. For those that dare and are willing and able to search beyond the surface, the answers we might find are unimaginable and quite terrifying. For those of you who are interested in reading factual cases of demonic posession, I would highly recommend Malachi Martin's HOSTAGE TO THE DEVIL. He goes in to much detail about the stages of demonic posession and he explains wonderfully the very real relationship between Jesus, Lucifer and Humans. It is a very scholarly, terrifyingly real book.