Maggie Gyllenhaal is super-hot and John Sayles rules about 75% of the time, so I figured I really couldn't go wrong with this. With classics like MATEWAN, LIMBO, and LONE STAR under his belt, there's no way I'll miss any of his projects.

But I can't help thinking that maybe I should start.

While CASA DE LOS BABYS is much less boring and way less pedantic than 2002's SUNSHINE STATE, Sayles still can't pick himself off the ground.

The story concerns a group of American women who have been going through the very slow-moving adoption process somewhere in South America. Sayles shows us that the longer the process takes, the more profitable it is for the country's economy, as the women have to stay in their hotels and buy their food, etc.

The women all have various neuroses, even Gyllenhaal's seemingly dim-witted upper-class housewife breaks down on the phone to her somewhat demanding husband. I don't know if Marcia Gay Harden's character is supposed to be from California, but she sure acts like it: never content with any level of service, criticizing everyone, placing herself on a pedestal, and never considering other's feelings. Darryl Hannah's under-developed character hides the pain of three miscarriages by excessive exercising, Lily Tomlin is a cynical New Yorker and a suspected lesbian, Mary Steenburgen is a recovering alcoholic, and then there's some ugly, annoying Irish chick.

Which brings me to probably the biggest problem with this film: it's so transparent. Sayles pulls easy, emotional punches that are guaranteed to have us declaring him a genius through our tears. Aside from annoying montages of ugly babies (people, please -- babies are not cute, they're disgusting, and I don't care; to paraphrase Bill Hicks, 1 sperm out of billions finding its way to an egg and shooting out a baby nine months later is NOT a miracle [not to mention all the people all over the world selfishly squirting out more kids who suck up resources simply because they can't a) buy a condom or b) deal with their own mortality]), we're subjected to one of the most condescending, unrealistic, transparent scenes I've witnessed in a long time. Ugly Annoying Irish Chick is in her hotel room when the Spanish-speaking maid comes in to clean. From there, they both share stories of their kids (again, who CARES??) while not understanding a word each other is saying, but feeling the d e e p  emotion of it all. C'mon, Sayles. That's sickening.

There's not as much proselytizing here as there was in SUNSHINE STATE, but the overall product is still very mediocre, and ol' John needs to get his act together before he gets behind the camera again.