Looked at in the whole of his work, Russell T. Davies used his run as executive producer of Doctor Who (2005-2008) to expand the universe surrounding the Time Lord.  Using the Doctor Who anthology as a jumping off point, Davies was able to build the premise that brought Elizabeth Sladen back into the Family of Time as a more mature Sarah Jane Smith...and through the first two series of Doctor Who, built the foundation that led to Torchwood; using "The Unquiet Dead" , "The Empty Child/The Doctor Dances" and "Bad Wolf/Parting Of The Ways" from Series One; then "Tooth And Claw" and "Army of Ghosts/Doomsday" for establishing the hows and whys for the Institute.
  It's obvious that the BBC decided that that, in spinning off one of the characters from a reimaging of The Doctor, the one that HAD to be spun off was Jack Harkness.  As portrayed by John Barrowman, Captain Jack was too handsome, too tragically heroic, too charismatic...and too adventurous (Both in his work and his off hours) to NOT have a storyline built around him.  In many ways, Captain Jack is another vision of the Doctor; sort of an off-kilter reflection that one might see in a Hall of Mirrors.  Jack is immortal but wishes for death, a leader who demands his team follow his leadership yet keeps secrets of his past (Their future) from them...Barrowman has matured Jack from his introduction...SOME.  Certainly, he is a more severe and understanding human in Cardiff than he was during his time on the TARDIS...and this plays out over the 13 episodes.
  Barrowman's equal in this series is the brilliant Eve Myles as the police constable turned Torchwood police liaison Gwen Cooper.  Cooper, a descendant of the housemaid Gwyneth from "The Unquiet Dead" (Something that was retconned in Series Four of Doctor Who), observes Torchwood reanimate a corpse in the series opener ("Everything Changes"), and begins a winding trail to--oddly enough--becoming somewhat of a "Companion" to Jack.  Myles is an oddly attractive woman--once she gets out of the PC uniform and into regular clothing, she has a wonderful body with that odd gap between the front of her upper teeth--which somehow makes her more human and appealing.  Gwen's adjustment to working at Torchwood--the sequence in "Ghost Machine" in which Jack teaches her how to user firearms--makes Gwen almost seem a natural for the unique mission of Torchwood.
  The rest of the Torchwood team--the medical specialist Owen Harper (Given an angry, arrogant edge by Burn Gorman--at least until "Out Of Time"), the computer/systems specialist Toshiko Sato (Naoko Mori, played as a bit of a wallflower save "Greeks Bearing Gifts"; in which we find out she holds a torch for Owen) and the administrative specialist Ianto Jones (Gareth Lloyd-Davies, who never seems to have a hair out of place or his suit out of joint--well, except for "Cyberwoman" and "Countrycide") round out Torchwood Three.

  Torchwood is a series that delves into the seamier side of Doctor Who's world.  The basic premise of the Torchwood Institute--a first line of defense on Earth against aliens (Aliens in this case defined as beings from other planets AND dimensions in time and space) allows for the issues that might inhabit any law-enforcement unit--relationships (How Gwen cannot tell her boyfriend, Rhys Williams, what she does...or as the season goes on, who she's sleeping with), the usage of what the team garners through the rift, and the potential for corruption from those items.  This is the theme of the first episode, in which the usage of one of the items...and it's corruptive, corrosive nature...leads to the death of one member of the team...and opens up the spot that Gwen fills.  From then on, the season veer wildly--aliens consuming bodies during sex, devices opening portals to the past, cannibals, fairies that aren't all sweet and nice, mind reading devices...oh yeah, and demons looking to consume all life.
  Overall, Torchwood is a wonderfully different take on the Whoniverse.  It is at times sadder, a little more visceral, and definitely more intense.  Barrowman and Myles give the series a heft and weight that couldn't be displayed in Doctor Who.  But that weight and intensity is why Davies gave this series a run...and it works.
  Highly recommended.