I love this movie.  In fact, it was the first movie I ever purchased (VHS) many moons ago.  I first saw it in a theater with a hard-bitten financial-analyst friend of mine (male, straight).  I'm an engineer (male, straight).  We are not weepy types.  We were both moved very much by this movie.  I don't agree at all that this is a chick-flick.

This is a movie aimed at adults.  If you want:  constant action, simplistic plot, black-and-white relationships, car crashes, shoot outs (OK, it does have some crashes and shooting), then you probably want to look elsewhere.  Casablanca, to which this movie has been contrasted, (though a good movie) could fall into the category of propaganda:  produced during WWII, everyone conformed to the main line.  Real people had real lives going on during WWII.

I find that the negative reviews of this movie fall into two categories:  1) those who are (terribly) morally offended by extra-marital affairs, and 2) those that can't follow a complex plot and set of characters.  If you can see beyond those issues, and you like a good, complex tragedy, you should enjoy this movie.  The first type of critic needs to grow up an realize that people are more complex than black and white caricatures.  John Wayne was realistic?!?  The fact that both lovers die, painfully, in the end isn't enough tragic retribution for you?  Some folks will never be satisfied until everyone agrees with them and conforms.  For the second type of critic:  best to stick with action movies.

This is a wonderful movie.  The cinematography is gorgeous, music is fantastic, story is complex and compelling, the characters diverse and engaging.  Everyone I know liked this movie a lot.  Two love stories, plenty of tragedy and twists.  Great actors and acting.  The story is revealed slowly through flashbacks, it's a great dramatic device and works very well.  I am a voracious reader and I have read the book as well:  I prefer the movie (I can only say this about one other novel/movie:  Dr. Zhivago).  Like I said, everyone I know liked it very much.  Enjoy.