During the middle of Ray, the highly anticipatory Ray Charles docudrama, he encounters his wife, Della Bea. Innocent and well mannered, Della Bea (Kerry Washington) refuses a first kiss attempt by Ray (Jamie Foxx). Ray, interested, understands that this girl isn't afraid to speak her mind. Indeed, instead of praising him several hours earlier after hearing his record, she wanted him to discover his true sound.

A few weeks late when Ray returns from a road trip with his band, Della Bea decides to pick up the pace in their relationship. After a moment of romance, Ray trusts her enough to take off his signature sunglasses, revealing his eyes, blind from glaucoma at the age of seven. Ray asks if he can call her "Bea", and after she agrees, suddenly jumps to the nearby piano to begin singing to her. Bea is astounded by the lyrics of his song, "I Got A Woman", claiming turning a gospel song into a song about women is sacrilegious.

At this point as well as others, Ray overdramatizes events, which are often accompanied by a hit song. The film suggests that this was the moment when Ray combined R&B and gospel music, ultimately leading to popularity, but also astonishment and resentment from some of the Christian community. They claimed that his use of religious music to depict sexual themes and make profit was offensive. Yet, the movie proposes that Ray had been brought up in Georgia, where he learned from a variety of musical genres, and encouraged listeners to not be so conservative in their taste.

However, the film is indeed interesting. Depicting Ray's career in episodes his first performances with the McSon Trio; companionship with aspiring jazz musician Quincy Jones; refusal to play in front of a segregated audience in Georgia (causing his banishment from the state for over a decade); issues of trust with his manager, Jeff Brown; a short affair with backup singer Marry Ann; his growing relationship with Ahmet Erteger and Atlantic Records; then his monumental contract with ABC records, where Ray earned seventy five percent of all the earnings.

While these moments in Ray's life need to be noted, the movie tends to over simplify and depict them as one-by-one events. However, the extraordinary talent and excellence of the music helps Ray through its flaws. What's most intriguing is the way the movie continuously offers little inventions, such as how Ray improvised "What'd I Say" with his band and singers on the spot, and how it's suggested that the influence from "Hit the Road" came from an argument with his second lover, Margie. Yet, the simplicity of Ray's thinking process does not detract, but in fact makes the film all the more enjoyable.

Less enjoyable are the movie's representations of Charles' childhood and emotional troubles, often seen as repetitive flashbacks that over dramatize and under explain the real causes to his despair. The young Ray is shown looking at colored bottles hung on a tree outside of his home in Georgia. The scene is then cut to the image of the bottles blurred, to represent his loss of sight and longing for childhood. Even less successful is the film's depiction of Ray's guilt and death of his brother, George. Factually, Ray attempted to save his brother from drowning in the tub; instead of simply standing there thinking it was all a joke. The movie's false depiction only leads viewers to misinterpret Ray's personality, only to attempt to show his sincerity through overdramatized and tedious hallucinations in the future.

Furthermore, Aretha, Ray's mom, gives Ray strength by constantly telling him to "never let nobody or no nothing make [him] a cripple". Aretha encourages him to use his other senses to get around, and always "stand on his own two feet". While this makes sense because Ray ends up pursuing a musical career, the film often overuses the devices, as he overcomes a serious heroin addiction by specifically remembering his mother's words, then has a dream in which he regains his vision and meets his brother and mother, who lovingly reinforces that George's death wasn't his fault. Although Jamie Foxx has a perfect imitation of Ray's blindness throughout the film, this scene suggests that literal vision is the path to psychological insight.

As this scene suggests, the movie's struggling with blindness as a metaphor is not always clear. The movie often worries about the limitations from blindness, and uses Ray's flirtatious interest in women to enforce his apparently lost manliness. Moreover, when Ray auditions for a white country band in Georgia, the bandleader borrows a pair of white, feminine sunglasses to cover Ray's eyes because they might "scare" customers. The picture then lingers on Ray in these ridiculous glasses, forming a joke that connects his blindness, sexuality, and race in strange ways.

Similarly, the film allows Ray to create a connection between his addiction to efforts to deal with his own personal darkness and problems. However, his addiction is reduced to the conventional movie scene, where someone discovers his drug use and consequently is the betrayal of a loved one.

The film's need for women characters and overused movie techniques to create a dramatic storyline was a bit disappointing. Yet, Jamie Foxx's performance truly shines, and the magnificence of Ray Charles himself leaves any docudrama on his achievements and troubles in my good books.