This film blends everything that is perfect about the scifi/fantasy genre. Everything about this film is so unique and beatiful- from the captivating story and cinematography to the film score. It's hard to believe this movie started out with no budget.

The film is about two forces agianst each other, as typical with many movies, good vs evil, the forces of light vs the incubi respectively. The forces of light give the world good dreams, while the incubi give nightmares. One day a girl is kidnapped by a mysterious evil named Ink, and the forces of light must go after her, as her father wallows away in depression.

Every frame in this movie is astounding on a visual level. The best part is really the color scheme and overtones. The colors of the movie represent all the different emotions the characters experience. Sepia represents peacefulness/happiness, darkness is dark blue/green, etc... The performances are strong, and the action is mind blowing. The dark look and tone of this film is something very special. Chris Kelly is wonderful as the father in this film. There's an extra on the dvd where he's interviewing the actress who plays the little girl which is very touching.

The only flaw with this film is there is one scene where the dialogue makes me cringe, specifically between one of the heroes and the pathfinder. But luckily it's only 1 minute of the film.

This movie is not for everyone. It's for the crowd that enjoy a lot of style and weird pacing. It has a good story, and it will definitely go over well with a mix between the Donnie Darko/Dark City crowd. This is one of my favorite films. In my opinion it's a lot better than Donnie Darko, which is another movie I enjoy, but feel it lacks a good twist. This movie is not so about a twist, but telling a compelling story which keeps the movie goer interested. It suceeds on this level. Some may find there are surprising momemts though.

*A quick thing to note is that I found out about this from the Franklyn page on amazon. This movie is much better than that one, but I still enjoy that one. Apparently this has been downloaded 400000 times in the past few days.