"Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" is most simply a perfect popcorn movie. You pop this in the DVD player, turn the speakers up, sit down, turn your brain off, and watch the action sequences unfold, one after another. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu are back, sans Bill Murray's Bosley in the second installment for more insane action sequences, fight scenes, and gratuitous booty shots. The plot is really quite simple. The government hid the names of people in the Witness Protection Program on two rings, one containing the real names and the other containing the aliases. Someone has stolen them and its the Angel's job to get them both back. Seems simple enough. Its not.
From the first explosion to the last landed blow, this film is a mess, but it benefits from being so. If it were to take itself as a serious action movie, it would've been the first "Mission: Impossible" (which actually had the same plot) just with three really hot chicks. Since the producers of the movie decided to let everyone know the major surprise twist in the casting announcements and even the films trailer, finding out that Demi Moore was the villian didn't come as a shock but they did do a good job of hiding it from people who hadn't seen the trailer.
Bernie Mac does a pretty good job of replacing Bill Murray as Bosley, who wasn't such a big part of the first film anyway. John Cleese is good as Lucy Liu's father, seeming disappointed and shocked in his daughter's chosen line of work (after a bit of a mix-up due to Alex's ex-boyfriend, Matt LeBlanc). Justin Theroux, Shia LeBeouf, and Crispin Glover (reprising his Creepy Thin Man role) are all good, even though the latter never says a word except "AAAHHHH!!!". 
The one thing that really bothered me about this film was the last act, where Demi Moore jumps off a building and literally flies for 5 blocks with these attachments on her dress. It was aforementioned in the film that she had won a Nobel Prize for her research on flying mammals, so that figures that she would know how to do it, but come on. Even in action movies some things are a little over the top. The special effects are real bad there. Otherwise, they were okay. Nothing Oscar worthy in this film. 
The score for this movie is exponentially better than that of the first film. There is an internal conflict within Drew Barrymore's character so there are some real somber musical moments. The show's theme is used a few times and of course, the "plot thickens" theme is used to great effect. Even the songs in the movie were good, like "Breathe" and "Firestarter", during the Coal Bowl and sailor fight, respectively, by Prodigy.
Buy it if you want a good, funny action movie to spend a Friday night watching. Avoid it if you don't like over-the-top action. Lord knows theres plenty of it in this movie. He should after all...it is a movie about Angels.