Romy & Michelle's High School Reunion  (1997) Mira Sorvino, Lisa Kudrow
If you hated your years in high school (and I imagine probably everyone but the select few "populars" did...ergo the wide appeal of this film!!) then you will connect with this satiric, wild ride chock-full of witty dialogue & brilliant characterizations.

Before a scant 5 minutes have passed in this film, the scriptwriters get your attention right out of the starting gate with great lines between the title characters such as: "You know we've seen Pretty Woman like 36 times and I never get tired of making fun of it" and later on in a nightclub when they determine that there are just no hot guys there and decide to dance with each other, Romy wonders if it would be better to be a lesbian. Michelle asks her if she wanted to try having sex together just to see if she was. "Oh no" Romy says "the idea of having sex with a woman just freaks me out." But then after a moment of careful reflection concludes "but...if neither of us has gotten married by the time we're 30, ask me again."

This movie took a chance on hiring what were then relatively new to the game players (Alan Cumming - "I am invincible" Boris from Golden Eye, Mira Sorvino from Mighty Aphrodite and Jeane Garafolo - Carmine the Bowler's daughter from Mystery Men) and was rewarded with the complex portrayals that usually come with older & more experienced actors. We all know how people can get stuck in a time warp and feel that either high school or college was the best years of their lives and never grow out of it. Such teen-angst-turned-impenetrable-adult-fortress is a hard one to pull off, but this cast does it beautifully. I particularly liked the quirky underlying Wizard of Oz-ish There's No Place Like Home theme - or in our heorines' case - There's No Better Person To Be Than Yourself.

And the movie's title provides the perfect platform for the double entrende of the concept 'Reunion'. Our 2 girls discover on their road trip that the reunion they really wanted was with themselves and to reach a true understanding of how wonderfully original, kooky and happy they really are.