This is a very satisfying western. Tom Selleck stars as Matthew Quigley, a sharpshooter of some reputation that is contracted by a ranch owner in Australia, ostensibly to keep vermin from destroying his land. It soon becomes clear, however, that the ranch owner, Elliott Marston (played wonderfully by Alan Rickman) wants Quigley to do a great deal more than knock over dingoes. 
Selleck is the rightful heir to the throne of John Wayne. He projects the same strength of character that Wayne did and has the same quality that Wayne did when on camera - the viewer's eye is drawn to him regardless of who else is in the shot. He simply seems to fill the screen. His acting has always been underrated. There are few actors working that seem so natural and at ease in front of the lens (Tom Hanks comes to mind.) Also, Selleck is an experienced gun owner, and his handling of the 1874 Sharps Rifle in the film is extremely true to life and accurate all the way. He just seems in his element handling a rifle, or the Colt SAA six-guns he uses toward the end of the film. 
The real surprise in the film was the performance of Laura San Giacomo. Nothing from the TV series Just Shoot Me ever gave an indication of her acting chops. Here, she gets to stretch out, and she makes the best of it. She is a very fine actress, it turns out. She plays the part of Crazy Cora, a woman who is just hanging around the ranch. When we first meet her, she is clearly crazy. Suffice to say that as the movie progresses, she becomes a romantic interest for Quigley. 
There is a truly remarkable scene where, in the quiet of a camp at night, she relates the incident in her life that broke her, drover her mad. It is not an easy scene to play, and she handles it perfectly - very understated and very, very moving. It was very pleasant to see, also, a woman in a western that was not just there for pretty scenery or to play off the hero, thereby developing the male character. No. In this film, Cora is a character that has scenes all by herself, using a gun just fine. When the cave scene comes (and you will know it when it comes) watch the light flare in Giacomo's eyes as she finds her strength and fights back - truly a force to be reckoned with. 
The Cora character grows and develops a great deal in the course of the film, which is no easy trick in a 90 minute movie. If you are not a Selleck fan (as I am), watch his movie for Laura San Giacomo. She is terrific.