Only Streisand's second movie, filmed during the politically and meteorlogically hot summer of 1968, Ms. Streisand turns in a performance that could have won her first best actress Oscar, instead of the much better "Funny Girl," filmed in 1967. Why an Oscar?  Streisand knew from the start that she was terribly miscast as the middle-aged widow, Dolly Levi.  Opposite Walter Matthau, twice her age at the time, it's not a believable story.  The Oscar comes from Barbra's totally tongue-in-cheek performance.  She is not Dolly Levi, she's really Mae West, Fanny Brice, Brooklyn Barbra, even a twinge of pre-star Dolly Parton.  Listen as Barbra throws in a little southern accent here and there.  But mostly watch an incredible actress do what she can with a story so silly that by the end of the film, 26 year-old Streisand changes the supposed-to-be 50+ widow into one of the sexiest screen performances in film history.  Even Matthau can't hold back his disbelief when watching Barbra do her numbers.  When there's no Barbra on screen, there's no film. You watch in anticipation until Barbra's next scene, wondering who she'll be.  The film looks like Gene Kelly directed it in three days with many technical flaws in the continuity of blocking scenes and dialogue.  Just watch Barbra.  Forget that she's the best female singer of the 20th century (no pun intended). Think of her as a young, sexy actress who has such energy, fearless ambition to get her movie career going.  Of course, the sets are incredible and her duet with Louis Armstrong (his last film performance) is classic, albeit about two minutes long.  Watch Barbra whisper under her breath while filming the dance numbers in The Harmonia Gardens with seasoned dancers.  She looks like she's saying, "What the hell am I doing here?"  Actually, she's making pure movie magic happen, almost impromptu.  Movie:  three stars, Barbra:  Five plus stars.  Nice to see Michael (Phantom of the Opera) Crawford pretend he can't dance.  Barbra doesn't talk about this movie, but being the most costly musical in history up to that time, 20th Century Fox got their money's worth a million times over by convincing the apprehensive Barbra Streisand to star.  Sorry Carol Channing, but Barbra was the best choice.