In 2002, fresh from the box office success of Oceans 11 (worldwide gross $450M) Steven Soderbergh was able to cash in some of his directorial chips and get a more personal project made. Taken from a 1961 science fiction novel of the same name by the Polish writer Stanislaw Lem, and bearing some resemblance to the lengthy 1972 version by the Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky, Soderbergh's Solaris was certainly a long way from Brat pack hijinks. Costing $47M to make and miss-marketed as a romance amongst the stars between its charismatic leads, George Clooney and Natascha McElhone, Solaris was at once more and less than it seemed. Despite critical plaudits its uncompromising exploration of existential angst left audiences cold and with a paltry $15M at the box office it soon disappeared from screens.

A synopsis sounds fairly pedestrian and gives little clue to the complexity of subject matter and emotion that unfold; after receiving a mysterious distress call from an old friend on a space station in orbit around the planet Solaris, psychologist Chris Kelvin (Clooney) journeys to Solaris in an attempt to understand what has happened and bring the remaining occupants back to Earth. Arriving there he finds everything in a state of disarray and none of the survivors will tell him what is going on; "Until it happens to you, there's really no point in discussing it".

Solaris is a swirling mass of sentient energy and acts as if it were a kind of collective unconscious for the space station's occupants by manifesting their most powerful desires; the person they long for yet fear the most in their dreams appears in their waking lives. For Kelvin this is Rheya, the wife he lost to suicide 7 years previously after he walked out on her, and he awakes to find a recreated version of her based on his memories. The movie plays out their relationship both in the past and the present and gives Kelvin the chance to reassess his life and his feelings for Rheya.

Clooney is masterful in a very challenging role; he plays confusion, fear, guilt, longing, loss and a myriad of other nuanced emotions which go against the grain of his usual performances. In promotional interviews he explained he was exhausted from his first directorial effort "Confessions of a Dangerous Mind" and the fatigue he felt added to his portrayal of Kelvin, a man broken by grief and regret.

Natascha McElhone as Rheya is compulsively watchable even as her performance sometimes raises questions as to its merit. Early on we see her with the luminous eyes, high cheekbones and sensual charm we have come to expect, yet when she appears later as a figment of Kelvin's memory she is almost as if a child, stripped of her charm, self assurance and guile. I had some doubts about the validity of her performance here and got the feeling she was at times sharing an in-joke with Clooney, but she is never less than interesting.

The ambient score by Cliff Martinez is outstanding, a hypnotic, haunting and deeply moving soundtrack that adds immense depth to the experience, whilst the oceanic Solaris is breathtakingly beautiful and presents a mesmerizing visual metaphor for the unconscious, and your reaction to the movie may well depend on what swirls deep within yours.

The movie touches upon big ticket items like forgiveness, the nature of memory and identity, the creative powers of the mind and the meaning of life itself. If like me your life has been touched by grief and perhaps even guilt and regret then you may find its overriding theme of love, loss and redemption an extraordinarily therapeutic experience. The transcendent final moment makes me cry every time; "Everything is forgiven. Everything".

There are many ways to judge movies, and by most criteria Solaris is not a great one; however if we judge a movie by how we react to it, by what it makes us feel and what we take away from it, and whether its themes haunt, inhabit and continue to change us, then to my mind Solaris ranks amongst the best and is one I return to time and time again as I seek to understand the themes of my life.