The genre: Big robots, light noir, pays homage to movies like "Blade Runner", "James Bond", "Mike Hammer" and the comic book "Batman." Though "The Big O" has an original premise they primarily entertain us with with strung together cliches from the aforementioned genres. Though this sounds trite, nonetheless, it works very well and is entertaining. 
About the premise: The story takes place in a town called 'Paradigm City'. A city whereas 40 years before the population had suffered a mass amnesia from an unknown orgin. Subsequently the citizens at large, surrounded by advanced technology, have had to cope with how to use it and and how make it work. Thus, we have the morphing of low-tech and high-tech gadgets which, when combined, have an art deco look and feel such as the telephones, the typewriters, and of course the giant sized robots known as the Mega Deus'. By the way, our protagonist happens to own one 
The Protagonist is a man I assume to be in his late 20's early 30's who makes his living as a professional negoitiator. He is brought to life by the voice talents of, David Lucas, also known for his voice work for the character, 'Spike Spiegal' in the anime series, "Cowboy BeBop". The character is a cross between Batman and James Bond with all applicable gizmos at his disposal.
A second protagonist named, Dorothy, is a android portrayed by the voice talents of, Liz Sargent, also known for her voice work on "Serial Experiments: Lain" and "Trigun". Dorothy's character, im my humble opinion, comes straight out of the movie "Blade Runner". (Remember the replicant known as 'Priss'?) With that in mind, Dorothy is more intelligent than Priss but she is less emotionally developed.
The giant robots here are very heavy looking, pile driving, and possibly artifically intelligent. (Hmm, shades of "Evangelion"?) The battles take place in a generally abandoned part of the city with lots of former high rises being decimated.
About the cliches: We have a noir saxophone playing blues rounding out the soundtrack, the grumpy police captain, the wise guy informant at the bar who spills nicely when paid, the giant robot who appears conviently when the proper phrase is uttered, some ... women here and there, and a self centered hero who is a moralist.
Caveat: The artistic style here is very Americanized. Not like your general anime style. It has the look and feel of "Batman The Animated Series".
Pros: Great voice talents, elegant art direction, a good soundtrack, original premise, cliches that are amusing to see in this context. 
Cons: The titling in the begining disappoints! It fails to capture any essence as to what the show is about and appears to be hacked together quickly with ... video effects and lettering. The opening song is, in my opinion, a straight [copy] from a "Queen" tune which that was the opening theme song to the Universal Studio film, "Flash Gordon". 
Overall, its light, fun, and I am glad I own it.
...