Little Shop of Horrors is the definitive modern musical comedy. The music, as written by Alan Menkin, is melodic and beautiful, with some of the best lyrics in recent memory. The pacing is quick, with sharp directing by Frank Oz and great comedic performances by Steve Martin, Ellen Greene, and Rick Moranis (and the very over-rated Bill Murray, in a painfully extended cameo as a masochistic dental patient). The film knows that it isn't art, or thought-provoking, which is what keeps it from being truly campy. But what prevents it from being great is the extremely controversial, oft-discussed original ending.
In the play, Audrey and Seymour are eaten by Audrey II, and the Greek Chorus sings a cautionary song to the audience. In the movie, Audrey survives, Seymour electrocutes Audrey II, and they all live happily ever after. It wasn't always so, however. Oz had filmed the play's ending, but in test screenings, the audience was angry and appalled, so Oz opted to reshoot the film for the ending as it is.
In 1998. a Special Edition DVD was released with a VERY rough cut of the original ending, but it was pulled from the shelves by the producer after only two days. A second release DVD came out in 2000, sans original ending. The first issue DVD has become a collector's item of the highest degree, often selling at online auction sites for upwards of $100.
Well, I own that first issue DVD, and having seen what the film could have been, I can't rate it higher than 3 stars. In that ending, Audrey's death is handled with dramatic emotion now absent from the film, never playing for laughs. There is a breathtaking Death March (Now available on the New Broadway Cast Album) as Seymour carries her body to Audrey II. Seymour undergoes a psychological spiral within minutes, before being devoured by the plant. And during the finale, "Don't Feed the Plants," many enormous Audrey II's are shown wrecking havoc on a devastated New York City, blowing up cinemas, eating trains, and crushing the very symbol of our country, the Statue of Liberty (sort of). Had this ending been used, the film would have been a memorable masterpiece, but as is, it is merely a forgetable (if enjoyable) musical flop.
It's a shame Frank Oz surrendered his vision to please the people. I can only imagine what the ending would have been like in full technicolor on the big screen.
Let's hope for a 20th Anniversary Deluxe Edition DVD in 2006 with a re-edited film containing the original ending, as promised by the producer when he had the disks puled from the shelves.
Little Shop of Horrors is a fun film, if not for younger audiences. If you have 90 minutes to spare and are a fan of musical theatre, check out this modern classic-that-should-have-been, about a singing plant, a daring hero, a sweet girl, and a demented dentist.