Reading some of the reviews about this movie, I've noted that a lot of people believe that the only good part of the movie was the special  effects, and many believed that the plot was lacking.  I believe that the  special effects were great, but they were only an extra goody, and not the  best part of the package.
In the beginning of Twister, you are taken back  several years to the late sixties in the eastern part of the United States.  A father rushes through his country home, and his wife follows his lead  with their daughter, Joe, with them.  They hide in a backyard storm cellar,  but as the storm begins to pick up, they discover that the family dog is  not inside.  The father quickly ushers the dog inside, and shortly after he  recloses the door, the twister comes.  The father gets sucked into the  tornado, holding the door, while the mother and daughter are still safe  inside the cellar.
After this, the movie goes to the present, and a new  plot begins.  Joe's husband catches up with the storm chasers-also, his  former work companions-to have his wife sign the divorce papers so he could  get married to his new fiance, who he brings along.  But when trying to get  Joe to sign the papers, a tornado is found nearby, and the storm chasers  follow it to send up their newest project-Dorothy.  Dorothy is a machine  that both Joe and her husband designed, and when it comes in contact with a  twister, it will send up many sensors, enabling the storm chasers to get  readings on the tornado.  Their theory is if they can get readings on  tornados, and learn about them, they will be able to create better tornado  warnings, allowing people to get to safety more quickly before a tornado  hits.
Personally, I really liked this movie.  When I rented it awhile  back, I would just watch it over and over.  The plot is rather likeable,  and the characters are interesting and unique.  I recommend this movie to  the people reading this, not only for the special effects, but for the  whole package.