I saw ALICE in 3D in an IMAX theatre. This being said, viewers can expect a mildly odd family entertainment, best made memorable by a lackluster performance from Johnny Depp. Once again, Depp dons his generic British accent that while believable, is unvaried from his other Brit roles- of which he's had a few. I feel comfortable being critical of the genius that Depp most certainly is- now that he's made enough money to retire 20 times over. He's going to have to work very hard indeed to top his previous Burton collaborations. Hopefully we will all forget Willy Wonka from the formidable list of triumphs.

Unlike the wonderland of AVATAR, Burton's Wonderland seems somewhat unfinished, as if there were insufficient time or monies to satisfy his vision. Burton's Wonderland is not only bleak, but lacking in detail and imagination.

All of this is relatively unimportant. ALICE is in its own way a respectable work of art which, for a Hollywood blockbuster, was no easy credential. Clearly, Burton knows the ins and outs of working Tinseltown. Few art films in history and fewer film makers have commanded this kind of strong-legged boxoffice.

In spite of a nice 3D eyefest made nicer indeed by the IMAX format, this ALICE is neither "trippy", profound, or for that matter, truly entertaining. But hey, I own stock in both Disney and IMAX so I know the smell of big bucks when I get a whiff.

Ultimately, I've passed on owning this DVD. The film is simply not memorable enough to hold up to, or command repeat viewings (unless one is chemically enhanced to grok anything with groooovy images). And I am the kind of guy who collects Disney animation. I find it ironic indeed that Tim Burton, who came into his own by rejecting the Mouse Factory, has won a hit for himself at Disney. There- I guess Disney has been well compensated for providing Tim's apprenticeship.

I found ALICE to be an engaging, but ultimately unsatisfying addition to Burton's Filmography. I have no doubt that Burton himself is dissapointed with this WONDERLAND. Nevertheless, ALICE IN WONDERLAND accomplished what it set out to do, namely, make a lot of money for all parties involved.