This is a brilliant, ahead of its time production mixing 60's spy with sci-fi and political thriller.  Marred a bit by the ambiguous ending, yet the enigmatic conclusion is in a way also fitting to the concept of the series-What's going on here? And of course, Man's personal freedom in the world. There's a fascinating documentary that alone is worth the price of this collection.  It's too bad McGoohan couldn't have been interviewed.  I was hoping the Special Features would've included the PBS interviews with him that followed each episode of their showing of the series in the late 70's.
  Although under tremendous pressure and at times chaotic production problems (see the early Rover) the end result is not only a winner, but rises to the level of pop art culture.  It's an icon of the 60's and McGoohan's hands are everywhere including developing the theme music--one of the best TV themes ever. The music to the series gets a special slide show for each episode with scenes and behind the scenes pics included.  And we get to hear the themes that were not chosen--Thankfully!
  Number 6 is clearly John Drake, although I suspect it is for legal ownership reasons that McGoohan always denied this.  A close reviewing of the final Secret Agent (Danger Man) year of shows reveals an increasingly disillusioned John Drake with MI-6 and the spymasters he works for as they at times lie to him about the purposes of his missions.  And in one episode after Drake is told by his masters and gives his word to a scientist possibly defecting, that he will not be arrested if he returns to England, the man is promptly handcuffed upon arrival at Heathrow.  Drake angrily confronts his superior who denies ever promising Drake anything and the episode ends.  You can almost see the first episode of The Prisoner as a direct followup, thumping his resignation down on his boss's desk.
  There is some unevenness to the series and the documentary sheds light on that, but taken lightly as an action show or enjoyed as a more insightful examination of man's role in society, The Prisoner remains a standout of 60's television and as said many times, just as relevant in today's world as then.
 Be seeing you.