I watched Cinderlla 3 last night.  There was a lot of hype surrounding the film, but I thought it was pretty good.

The first Cinderella - the timeless classic - attracts audiences of all ages.  As we already know, the story is perfect and has the ultimate culmination: "...But I have the other slipper..."

The second Cinderella is just three mini-stories woven together to make an hour and a half movie.  The stories are best suited for children under age 9.  (These are the kinds of featurettes that would appear on a Saturday morning cartoon series, for example - the plots are simple, the dialogue is pretty cheesy, and nothing is really accomplished at the end.)

Cinderella 3 obviously does not compare to the classic first, but in all truth, it is a legitimate film that will extract all the emotions you had pulled from the first film.  On that topic, however, the level of "emotion pulling" has changed, probably in an attempt to keep the movie viable in today's market.

For one, the wicked step-mother is now about ten times more wicked.  The first movie played her as a cold antagonist with a more slithery approach to her wickedness.  In Cinderella 3, that same step-mom now conducts open acts of evil (and only a few slithery actions).

Why is that important?  Because an overwhelmingly evil step-mother dwarfs the emotion of feeling sorry for Cinderella.  In the classic film, one could not help but feel so terrible for poor Cinderella as she worked so hard and was not rewarded.

Now, Cinderella is punished for being nice.  This changes the whole concept of the "Cinderella Story."  Now you just want that old haggard step-mom to get drug from the back of a horse-drawn pumpkin carriage - you could care less if Cinderella won the prince back or lived happily ever after.  That is, the irony that is bound to happen (good defeats evil in a Disney film) is not as spectacularly fantastic as the classic film when Cinderella produces the second, missing slipper.  The irony of Cinderella 3 is that the step-mom merely gets her comeuppance.

But this movie also plays on the personality and feelings of Anastasia, which I generally find kind of weird.  It separates her from Drizzella which to me is awkward.  I appreciated the dueling sisters who only acted in concert to harm Cinderella's interests.  Now the movie pulls out the possible good in one of the three main antagonists.

Cinderella 2 explored this the most, however, but I thought it was brutally done.  Basically, Anastasia is a "good trapped inside" dumb-dumb, as one would be left to think.  Anastasia basically wants things but doesn't know how to get them, but somehow manages in the end, usually from revelation or help from Cinderella.

Sure, that makes Cinderella seem even more like the saint that she is for helping her sister (who apparently still hates Cinderella, even when she helps).  But it draws so much focus away from our one true star: the lady who went from rags to riches and defined a brand new storyline for others to coin or imitate.

To give Cinderella 3 a side credit, albeit minor, is that it "follows the rules."  Namely, the rules regarding "bippity boppity boo," magic, and the animals and their interactions.  The talking mice, the effects of the magic on the animals, and the history of each character (including whatever may have been grotesquely altered in Cinderella 2 with Lucifer falling in love, Anastasia desiring and finding love, or Cinderella being conflicted with her new title in royalty) made amends for Cinderella 2's near-fatal depictions.

That was a hard challenge, but these Disney movie-makers got it right in Cinderella 3.

To close, Cinderella 3 is best suited for children age 12 or under per my review.  It will not reach out to the hearts of ad ults like the original classic did, and it won't draw the emotions you'd expect from the classic Cinderella Story that Disney founded back in the day.

Due to its simple storyline and re-focus of characters' significance and portrayals in the film, I can only recommend this film if your child actually liked (or was entertained by) Cinderella 2, or if he/she really still loves the characters since his/her last viewing of the original Cinderella.

Don't expect much from Cinderella 3 (especially its replay value) so that when you do watch it, you won't be disappointed when you compare it to the monumental classic.