The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift isn't a deep, thought provoking movie, but it doesn't purport to be either.  It's just what it was marketed in trailers to be: an action packed fun bit of mind candy filled with fast cars, dozens upon dozens of hot Japanese girls, thumping music, and body flinching car crashes.  The basic plot is that a high school driving nut gets in trouble (yet again) after racing with a rich boy.  To keep him out of jail, he is sent to his estranged father in Japan.  Alas, there he discovers the world of drifting, an even more dangerous style of racing.  Unfortunately, he also soon finds himself in trouble with the relative of a high ranking Yakuza.

For me, the only really noticeable mistake in this movie is that way too many people walked away with only a few scratches from what should have been fatal crashes.  For example, there is one crash where a car rams into a concrete tube while going at least 80 mph.  Yet the two occupants didn't even require a hospital bed!  A more minor mistake might have been putting in a little too much plot, especially when some things weren't followed up as well as they could have.  In the end, though, the plot is mostly there to serve as some spacer between all the hot cars and awesome races.  I should mention one other minor mistake.  Vin Diesel's cameo was so completely pointless.  The movie already had a good ending, it was just kinda senseless.

The cars in this movie are the real stars.  So many hot little numbers, including American muscle cars, hot foreign vehicles, and one pimped out van that you just have to see to believe.  The acting is good, for what it is, though Luca Black's twang-filled voice might annoy some folks.  Twinkie, another army brat played by Bow Wow, is such a hoot!  I know I said the plot was mostly spacer, but I did find the interaction between Sean, Han, and Twinkie to be awesome.

So I suggest you don't think about the logistics of things.  Just sit back and enjoy the cars, the some times over-the-top characters, and, for the men (or lesbians) the multitude of Japanese girls who barely wear any clothes. All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed seeing this movie.  I was pleasantly surprised that they attempted to include at least some true elements of Japanese culture, such as the changing shoes thing in schools.

I do recommend this one been seen in the theater.  The music and pulse of the movie are made for big screen, surround sound viewing!  I might get this one DVD just to have something fun and rocking to watch when I want some mindless action.