One of the funniest movies that I have seen in ages!  Robin Williams is not the funny one here, it is Nathan Lane's character, Albert, that gets the most laughs. This movie has made me a life-long Nathan Lane fan.  Both Williams (whose character is Armand Goldman) and Lane play gay men, with William's role being the dominant or male character. Since I am not gay, it is hard for me to define gender definitions of gay couples, but in this movie, there can be no missing the fact that Lane is the female side of the couple. When William's son comes to tell Dad of his impending marriage to a young woman (played admirably by Calista Flockhart) and to plead with Dad to pretend to be straight when he meets the girl's parents, as her father is a very straightlaced Senator in D.C.(played by Gene Hackman),trouble starts, in the form of hurt feelings and feelings of rejection to the other member of the relationship, namely, Albert. All kinds of solutions are considered to try and work him in to the charade, but he is so blatantly what he is, a gay man who is a female impersonator, but more female in his real self image than he is male, then it is nigh on to impossible to have him pose as an "uncle" or any male person, though he does try to adapt, with a few lessons on "maleness" from Armand, but he is incapable of being anything other than what he is, so they don't know what to do with him, how to explain him, and he refuses to just go away and be quiet until the wedding is over.
The ensuing struggle between the characters to remain true to who they are and each other, and yet not mess things up for the young couple is hilarious!  The supporting actors are as good as the stars in this movie.  The wonderful Christine Baranski plays the biological "real" Mother of the son, whom she has given up to Armand, his biological father, to raise, and does not even know her son, but is willing to help in his time of needing a "normal" Mother. This causes some problems also, because Albert (the Lane character) is jealous of the relationship she has with Armand. Hank Azaria is superb in his role of Agador, the Guatemalan housekeeper, as well as the best looking male in the cast! The usually serious Gene Hackman as the "Father of the Bride" proves that he can do comedy as well as serious drama, and so does Diane Weist, the "Mother of the Bride." They have their own problems, unknown to Armand and Albert, trying to allude the press and escape D.C. undetected because of a recent scandal in the Senator's cabinet concerning one of his cronies and an underage hooker. Their way of dealing with their pursuers assures that the movie is hilarious to the very last scene! This is one of a very few movies that I can watch over and over, and never tire of it. In my opinion, it is the best characters that Williams and Lane have ever played. It is the roles that I have liked best in all of the movies that I have seen them in. I love this movie!!