This movie is a completely different beast than 'Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels', and 'Snatch'. I enjoyed both of those movies immensely. But Revolver is quite unique to any movie I have seen.

I actually saw this movie a few years ago. It was released in the UK and Europe in 2005 in theatres and DVD. I purchased a copy online. I wondered at the time why it hadn't been released in the U.S.

Firstly, I cannot say much about the story, because I don't want to give anything away. It's that type of movie. Reminded me of the first time I saw 'Fight Club'. I said, "what the f---?" But I knew I'd just witnessed something pretty awesome. Definitely a movie you have to see twice.

I would really emphasize that to anyone interested in this film. It REQUIRES multiple viewings. I figured the movie out midway through the second watch. But it took several viewings to fully understand. Also, seeing other reviewers on different sites when the movie originally came out, it was definitely those who watched it several times to understand it that fell in love with 'Revolver'.

A warning here for some of you: lots of violence and blood and profanity. If that's alright with you, the movie is a thrill to watch. It tries some different things that really worked for me. Excellent sound editing, with the gritty voice over by Jason Statham. The editing is frantic. I have to say, the Elevator Scene, you'll know what I am referring to after viewing, is one of the most intense movie scenes I've ever seen.

That scene, and the finale. The final scene. In a word, INTENSE. This movie really goes out with a bang. One of my favorite all-time endings. Ray Liotta, fantastic. Great to see him with a top notch performance. Statham carries the movie. Also, Sorter, the hitman, really has a classic performance.

'Revolver' is filled with memorable scenes. They went out on a limb trying new things and it really paid off. Notably, the animated sequence is pretty cool. Dialogue: Unbelievable. Some of the things Jake (Statham) says in the voiceover, it's just really great stuff. And I loved the way they worked the quotes into the movie.

I understand that it could be a frustrating and very confusing movie to many. Again, I would highly recommend multiple viewings. But this is no doubt a movie not to be liked by all. But some of you will love it as I did.

'Revolver' really demands your attention. It has a deep and cool message behind all of it. This movie is sure to be a cult classic. Give it 5-10 years and some people will see it for what it is. A masterpiece.

The final question you'll be asking... Who is Sam Gold?