After watching My Fair Lady, my dislike for visual interpretations of literature has increased monumentally. Although the film might have minimal qualities, which would entitle it to the numerous awards it has received, it is an understatement to say that it does not accurately portray G.B. Shaw's Pygmalion. An author who very clearly includes a cynical tone in the play, and the element of satire is indeed the entire "make-up" of the play, would greatly dissaprove of this film.

It is evident to me that the producers and directors of this musical made a half-hearted attempt at accurately portraying the message which emerges in the play. In fact, I find that Pygmalion was simply an object used to obtain characters and events, yet the main conflict of the play was not at all perceivable in the movie. The idea of a satire is to "ridicule or hold up to contempt the faults of individuals or of groups". Frankly, the entire concept created by G.B. Shaw was ignored by the makers of this movie.

Not only was the play generally not portrayed accurately, but the acting was not exceptional. It is to my belief, that when a movie producer decides to base a movie on a play or novel they should make the ultimate attempt at portraying the characters accurately. After reading the play, my perception of the characters was very extreme. Seeing that the play is a complete ridicule of different social classes, I imagined Henry Higgins as a completely detestable human being. Not physically, but in the way he carried himself, and his treatment of others. In the movie, the transition he made from being a mean and classist person to accepting Eliza was abrupt and unnatural. On a different level the interpretation made by Audrey Hepburn of Eliza, was quite unbearable. She was almost "too pretty" as a flower girl, and although she did an exceptional job pulling off the accent, her acting did not meet my expectation of Eliza.

The fact that this is a "Hollywood" interpretation truly drives the movie away from the play. It is usual for this type of film to include the "cheesy" aspects of cinematic production, which give it this denomination. The film portrays the story as one of love, rather than the satirical and cynical tale that G.B. Shaw tells. The worst part of this film, has to be the musical aspect. It is very difficult, to portray cynicism through music. In fact, the music makes it quite a ridiculous interpretation of the play. It is definately the wrong script to adapt as a musical film.

On a final note, I have to say that i am definately biased, having read the play prior to seeing the film. I saw the movie with a pre-established view of what i believed would be an accurate portrayal of the play, and was very dissapointed with the result. The movie disregards the objective of the play, taking away the veyr thing that makes Pygmalion an excellent read.