Since 1987, "Fatal Attraction" has been the gold standard for a truly terrifying thriller about relationships gone wrong.

Dan (Michael Douglas) is a guy who seemingly has it all...a lovely wife (Anne Baxter) and a cute little girl who adores him.  But for Dan, life will never be the same when he encounters Alex Forrest (Glenn Close) at a party.

We know that Alex spells trouble the minute she appears on screen.  Close plays the oddly seductive vixen with a reptilian, dead-eyed stare and wild blonde mane (it was the 80's, after all).  The story unfolds rather quickly, with each moment building to a chilling crescendo as we realize that Alex is one sick bunny...oops, I mean puppy.

This seriously disturbed woman will not leave Dan alone and Michael Douglas plays this role to the hilt, barely concealing his tension and fear.  We see how easily he is lured into Alex's web of manipulation and evil.  We see his guilt as he tries to hide his infidelity from his wife.  "Fatal Attraction" is a study in the complexity of relationships and the dark side of humanity.

Close literally becomes the epitome of evil in this role.  She is also a mystery as Alex Forrest, because viewers are left wondering who Alex really is.  Is she a sociopath or a lonely woman driven to madness?  How did her father die, and was this the catalyst for her trouble with men?  Why is she so fixated on Dan when there are millions of other men in New York City?

I actually had a few moments of sympathy for her, although she is a loathsome character.  My skin crawled and my blood curdled, yet I could also see the sadness and desperation oozing from her in some scenes.  She would be convincing as a figment of Stephen King's twisted imagination...she is THAT scary.

I would classify "Fatal Attraction" as a combination of suspense and horror, but it is more on the horror side for me.  Years later, no other actress can match the vengeance of a woman scorned the way it was depicted by Glenn Close.  She set the bar extremely high and I've yet to see anybody else do it that way again.  A few have tried to replicate "Fatal Attraction" in weak fashion, but it simply can't be done.

Five stars all the way for this classic film!