Okay, a little disclaimer up front folks.  I'm not going to write and say that this movie is brilliantly acted or that it even completely makes sense.  And, I'm not going to declare that it is a masterpiece for the ages.

What I am going to say is that it grossed me out, made me laugh my back-side off, and was a helluva lot of fun!  Not necessarily the faithful Lovecraft adaptation it's promised to be, but it's certainly a lot closer than others - especially the much vaunted "Re-Animator." (Another love of mine, BTW.)

But, speaking of Re-Animator, this one has the same essential elements that make that film great.  Style to burn, over-the-top, unforgettable characters, bizarre gore to satisfy the most blood-thirsty viewer, and a guaranteed future in the cult movie hall of fame!

You get the sense that a lot of this was rushed in the writing and in the making.  But, you also get a sense that, like Stuart Gordon or Sam Raimi, the guys who made this sucker are just finding their footing and could make something really awesome in the future.  Definitely some folks to keep an eye on.

Now, that's not to say that you're gonna see something great in the future from all involved.  The MTV-adled editor who never met a distracting flash cut he didn't like might not be catapaulted into the big leagues by this sucker.  Also, some of the actors are like community theater rejects that have been exposed to radiation.  But, hell, the rampant over-acting and broad delivery actually make most of them pretty endearing, nonetheless.

I'm recommending this because I'm a person that loves cheap horror movies that not only wear their budgets on their sleeves - but wear their hearts there as well.  You can feel the geek enthusiasm and unbridled excitement that this project was made with - and that alone makes it worth a viewing.

I suppose it says something that I've written this whole review without delving into the plot.  But, let's face it, you don't rent a film like this because of the plot.  You rent it because there is a good chance you're going to see a woman having her brain exposed and experimented on while still living.  (And yes, this film has exactly that in one of the most twisted sex scenes this side of "Blue Velvet.")

If you're willing to suffer through some slow parts and endure some low-budget inadequecies - you'll be glad you did.  The score and direction definitely set it apart from the pack.  It certainly looks a lot better than it should!  Anyway, this is a fun freakin' flick that ain't too bad to look at, pushes all the right buttons and will be the perfect addition to any late-night movie marathon.

Watch it in a double-feature with "From Beyond," some hardcore horror fanatics, and a big, ole', tasty block of cheese!  You won't be disappointed!