THE LOST WORLD (2001 - an A & E Production, dir. Stuart Orme) is probably Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's quasi-finest-hour work. It has also been done to death, and I am sad about it. There seems to be no great, definitive version on film - but Sir Arthur was not always even-handed in his quality of writing. THE LOST WORLD is one of those all-or-nothing propositions and Hollyworthless just can't handle it.

This very important version, therefore, is a must-own for fans. If you haven't seen it, well, let me say it is fun, it is quality, the acting is quite good. The effects are far superior to what you see on television - and remember, this version is already a decade old.

The incongruous Bob Hoskins is Professor George Challenger, the grumpy zoologist/explorer who serves as yet another model for Indiana Jones. Here I love the presence and power Hoskins can bring to a part (I recall seeing the great Jonathan Rhys Davies play the role with greatness, too). He looks a bit like Connery's aged Quatermain in THE LEAGUE OF EXTRAORDINARY GENTLEMEN.

Doyle created Challenger in 1912 for the novel THE LOST WORLD, 27 years after Sir Henry Haggard created big game hunter Allan Quatermain. Doyle, as always, based Challenger on one of his professors from Edinburgh, though Challenger's characteristics are based on Doyle himself. (Haggard based Quatermain wholly on himself.)

The basic storyline: Challenger proposes an expedition to the Brazilian Amazon, waving a pteronadon bone in the lecture hall, and while his pals try to laugh at him (the great James Fox as Prof. Summerlee, the great Robert Hardy as Prof. Illingworth), the intrepid Lord Roxton (an impressive Tom Ward) offers to fund half the expedition. They are going to find "the lair of the pterosaur". It seems that considering the usual poetic license of film production, this tried to stick with the spirit of the original novel - which I haven't read since I was a teen.

As anything of this ilk on TV at the time (think DINOTOPIA, which I loved, by the way) things occur too rapidly, so it is something like a blur that carries our heroes to Brazil. There they meet the Reverend Theo (Peter Falk ... will wonders never go away in these productions?) and an argument between Theo and Prof. Summerlee ensues, all about Darwin and the Bible, the age of the earth and fossils. It's the kind of thing I love, but the average viewer is not going to get the point.

This isn't your quick-paced actioner when it ought to be.

The story is fun and engaging enough; it is, as I say, a worthy DVD and a good time at roughly 150 minutes in length. Good for a quiet night in, or a rainy weekend. The star power is something of a relief, really, because I can imagine this in the greasy hands of some two-bit production company and endless oceans of boring who-the-heck-is-that nonentities passing themselves off as stars.

This version is a parade of talent. And it beats the heck out of stupid films like the two most recent versions of KING KONG and the old cult film CONGO.