Romeo And Juliet - No Ordinary Love Story...
Franco Zeffirelli's Oscar winning 1968 masterpiece was filmed in Italy (Verona, I believe though I'm not 100% sure of that).  The film is rich in costume and scenery and the  performers are simply extraordinary.  Olivia Hussey (Death On The Nile; It;  Psycho IV: The Beginning; etc.,) shines as sweet Juliet, Leonard Whiting's  (Frankenstein: The True Story; The Legend Of Young Dick Turpin; Rachel's  Man; etc.,) portrayal of young Romeo is unparralled and of course Michael  York (Logan's Run; The Island Of Dr. Moreau; Austin Powers; etc.,) is  outstanding as fiesty Tybalt.  But the true shining star in this film is  the delightful, Ms. Pat Heywood (Who Slew Auntie Roo?; Root Into Europe;  etc.,) The Secret Garden; who steals the screen with each moment she graces  it.  She plays Juliet's Nurse and does so with such power, whimsy and  conviction that you simply must love her.  Pat Heywood gave the commonly  droll Nurse character life and vibrance I have yet to see in a performance  of this play live or filmed.  The scene where she goes to the church to  meet Romeo is absolutely side-splitting!
My sole complaint with this film  was that there was a bit of trimming done to the original script.  Some of  the dialogue was cut down, but only true, hard-core Shakespeare fans would  likely notice.  You've tried the rest?  Then watch the BEST!
Concerning  the ages of the stars:  I include this mainly as a side note, for it's been  my experience that there is always some confusion, question and  disagreement concerning the age of the young stars.  Here is their birth  information in hopes of settling any debates.  Hussey was born April 17th  1951 in Buenos Aires, Argentina.  Leonard Whiting was born June 30th 1950  in London, England, UK and Michael York was nearly ten years their senior  (May 27th, 1942 - in Fulmer, Buckinghamshire, England, UK).  
Not that  it's ever been a debate -- as far as I know it hasn't -- but I do not know  Ms. Heywood's birthday...Just for the record  :)