MY BEST FRIEND (Dir: Patrice Leconte, France 2006).

 In "My best friend", Monsieur Françoise Coste (Daniel Auteuil), is a solitaire  Marchant, that with his  partner Catherine (Jullie Gayet),  attend an auction, hence calls its attention, a black vase with Greek figures about the friendship (the vase used to contained the tears of a friend). Coste wins in the auction the vase, by which pays a stratospheric price of 2.00000 Euros. That same night, is held an informal dinner with his dealers friends, where M. Coste stresses that he attended to a funeral of a colleague where only about seven people were in the church. Somebody reply that probably to M. Coste's funeral nobody will attend because he doesn't have any fiend.
He is flouting that assertion, and when asked to mentioning the name of one friend, not colleague or client, he is paralyzed, Catherine bet the vase with M. Coste, invited to  displayed, in the period of 10-day his "best friend. "
The loneliness of contemporaries men is the landscape  of this Leconte story. Bruno the taxi-driver who has  collecting historic facts and trivial, dates, events, authors, with aspiring compete in one of this television shows knows, that his three "S": smile, sincerity and sympathy, although them work in their taxi-driver business, that do not help in every days life. The friendship, this form of get in touch  with people mirroring the bond of blood or heritage, comradely, without necessarily have a sexual motive, it is almost disappearing. Men do not use to be so friendly any more with one or two people. Women do all the time. Men do not. They are massively "friends", but the one or two, paralyzing them before the possibility of what it can comment or, in the worst cases of what he can feel. One does not choose  brothers but friend we do, so is one of the main issues of this very good film of Laconte.
  The evolution gave us a brain too large, for the basic functions of an organism, eating, sleeping, reproduced, the reason for this is the socialization, verbal and non-verbal languages, the neurons in mirror, to "read the mind" of another to make coherent my interaction. And yet, Laconte said, despite having a brain equivalent a very sophisticate and expensive car, we, men, use that fancy machine only to go to "seven & eleven", and return to our bedroom to sigh because our loneliness.