Battle: Los Angeles is a modern war movie told from the perspective of a platoon of US Marines thrown into battle against invading extraterrestrials attempting to take Los Angeles and filmed as if a documentary team was embedded with the unit. The result is a movie that almost looks like it was filmed in the heat and chaos of the intense firefights in Fallujah, Iraq rather than the ruined streets of Santa Monica and Los Angeles. The film begins with their initial contact with an unknown enemy possessing overwhelming firepower while trying to rescue civilians trapped in a police station in Santa Monica, trying to survive and escape while completely cut off from all support and finally rallying to try and destroy the aliens' command and control center against overwhelming odds. The freeway scene depicting the Marines trying to save civilians while trying to hold off the advancing aliens is especially nail biting and reminds me a lot of the intensity of the Omaha beach scene in Saving Private Ryan. The disadvantage of filming this way is that documentary style films are not big on character development unless you have a lot of quiet moments to observe each soldier. You therefore only get a superficial sense of the characters of each of the soldiers who make up main characters in this film but in the context of this film, that's enough to tell this narrative. The dialogue isn't memorable, but then documentary films aren't generally known for memorable dialogue from their subjects either. Other than the absence (for the most part) of f-bombs, the dialogue sounds pretty authentic as far as how soldiers would communicate to each other when performing their mission in the heat of battle. What this film excels at is watching how these soldiers start from being a diverse group who had never been in combat to becoming a cohesive unit fiercely loyal to each other and to their staff sergeant Nantz played by Aaron Eckhart by the end of the film. The only real criticism I have is the whole subplot about Nantz and Cpl Lockart's brother, who died during Nantz last tour in Iraq. I think the scriptwriter missed an opportunity to emphasize instead a bond between Iraq war vets Nantz and Kern (played by Jim Parrack who plays Hoyt Fortenberry in HBO's True Blood), just like Tom Hanks and Tom Sizemore's characters in Saving Private Ryan and Mal Reynolds and Zoe in Firefly/Serenity.