spike lee is an interesting director, says a lot of good things, and speaks his mind in the press.

hwever, this movie seems really dull and watered down.

the central relationship between snipes and the white woman has no sparks at all. a totally unbelievable pairing. i couldn't understand why snipes would cheat on his wife.  it's not clear what his motives are.  her motives...something, anything better or more exciting than her banal existence....are much clearer.  is snipes bored in his marriage, or is he just very belated in trying to fulfill the age old "fantasy" of black males to get with a white woman?  i couldn't tell you, because it's not at all clear to me. the moral of the movie- "idealism is ok, but it can never really work out" is off base, because it can't work out anyway, black or white....when a married guy sneaks around on his wife...whom he is apparently still in love with.

all the issues portrayed in the movie are real and need to be discussed in film, but i was bummed out by the some of ways which they were brought forth.  a big one for me is his targeting of racist italians.  in this movie it's the poor working class italians that are the problem?  racism is very common in ALL low income areas. the group that spike targets here...brooklyn "bodda-bing-bodda boom" italians...seems silly. sure some of those guys are racist, but they are not causing the majority of problems in the US of A...rather the herded-off-in-the-suburbs middle class white people, this subtle yet ultra powerful form of racism...i see this as the real problem, not the (relatvely speaking) small old school (and quickly dying out) ethnic populations of the buroughs.  why didn't spike choose middle class racism as his subject matter?  was it too nuanced to portray on film?  how about this:  a suburban white intern who falls in with her well to do black boss...her supposedly "liberal" white family totally disapproves. the economics of the pairing would ordinarily be cause for approval, but the ultimate issue is the color of skin. NOW THAT is way more on the mark.  who cares about lower class "bodda-bing-bodda-boom" italian racists?  (i'm italian btw) they have no political power in america, they don't sway votes and they don't give scholarships and jobs to white people that should go to black people.  did spike get beat up by some some "wiseguys" as a teen or something?

it just seems like a real misfire by spike, and not genuine.  another movie about racism "higher learning", showed racism on a college campus by nazi skinheads from idaho!  come on!  there are many way more acute examples of racism on a college campus.  who takes a skinhead seriously?  however, a rich white dean of a school may well have some racist ideas in his mind. THAT wasn't shown in the movie.  again, it seems like these directors are dumbing down the issue for the audience or something.  i don't know why they would squander the chance to actually SHOW how racism pervades our society...but instead show a sensationalist easy to pick on minority group who has old school racist ideas.

incidentally, i thought "bamboozled" was great.  really cuts the chase about the racism in the entertainment industry and shows how the audiences love stuff that panders to their most ignorant notions.  "bamboozled" is way more ambitious and hard hitting.  more enjoyable all around too.

so why does spike insult our intelligence with "jungle fever?"

james baldwin's book "another country" deals with this subject with a lot a depth and examines many angles.  check that out instead of this one.