I read the graphic novel of "V for Vendetta" when it was originally  released in the mid 1980s. Right from the beginning, I could see that this was Alan Moore's homage to Orwell and "1984" - he was most likely inspired by the book as the title's date approached and Moore observed Thatcher's England and Reagan's America unfold. What an amazing story "V for Vendetta" told. Alan Moore saw that Fascism was still alive and well in the world of 1984 as it was in Orwell's Post WWII 1940s.

Jump forward 20 years, and we have a retelling of this amazing story, but this time on film instead of the comic panel. In this day and age of Terrorism, the fear of Terrorism, and the Fascist use of that fear, the story is more important than ever in Bush's America/World. Fear is the most powerful tool of the fascist as has been demonstrated in both the real world - Nazi Germany and Post 9/11 America - and in fiction - "1984" and "V for Vendetta".  "V for Vendetta" capture's this by potraying a not-to-distant future where plague and terrorism have crippled the world and are  cooped by the fearful conservative right (where all fascism is born as they are similar psychoses) to control the masses and "protect" the people.

Though Moore set "V" in his native England, 20 years after its writing it could have been set in Post 9/11 America where even treehugging is consider terrorism by the ruling administration. Yes, this film portrays a terrorist as the "good guy", but it actually delves deeper into the heart of all of us; and it challenges every one of us to stand up for ourselves BEFORE we would need to resort to acts of violence to safeguard our freedoms - or worse have to reclaim them. Watch this film to be inspired for what we have to loose, before it becomes what we have lost.

A final note on Alan Moore not endorsing the film...Moore doesn't endorse any of his works being made into film. But, I would like to think that he will see it and see his vision properly realized; this is what I saw in the film...his vision on screen (though I was disappointed that the musical numbers found in the graphic novel were missing!). With this film, I await "The Watchmen" even more.