I used to watch this movie when I was a teenager with some friends of mine.  We shot pool all of the time and would watch this movie and/or the Color of Money before hopping in someone's car and going to a pool tournament.  Our favorite parts of the movie were the two acts in which Minnesota Fats(Jackie Gleason) and Fast Eddie(Paul Newman) played each other.  About once a month I still manage to stop in a gritty pool hall, not much different than the one depicted in the movie.  The same type of people you see hanging around these pool rooms hang around in the ones in this movie.
I've grown up now, and can see that there is a lot more than pool shots going on in this movie.  The DVD has a commentary track, in which the director's daughter says that the movie is about what it means to become a success in America - what you have to do to become one and what comes with success.  This was the first movie the director compelted after he gave up the names of innocent people to the McCarthy Communist witch-hut committees.  Who knows how that experience effected him - but I'm sure in someway that it carried over into this masterpiece.  I'm sure there's more Minnesota Fats in him than Eddie Felson - but that's what it takes to make a Hollywood movie.
Although Paul Newman is the main character in this movie and the story revolves around him - the story isn't complete without the other characters.  You have Burt Gordon(George C. Scott) who is the complete capitalist.  He is a hustler - someone who has bucked the system and made a lot of money quickly.  An outlaw in a way.  Made money gambling and knowing what other people will do.  However, all he cares about is making more money and he destroys people who are in his way or who may show him a better one.  
You have Minnesota Fats(Jackie Gleason) - the greatest pool player on earth.  The perfect artist or the perfect athlete.  He shoots pool like a machine, but seems to do it with no joy.  He's just a robot.  He works for Burt Gordon.  No.  He is owned by Burt Gordon.  Somewhere along the line he sold out to him.  Although he is the best at pool, he is not his own man and one feels sorry for him at the end of the movie.
You have the Piper Laurie character.  The needy co-dependent who has demons in her past that aren't totally explained in the movie, but don't need to be, because everyone knows someone with demons, if they don't have some of their own.  She understands what is going on around her.
Fast Eddie - the man who loves to shoot pool for the sake of shooting pool, but eventually comes to see that unbridled ambition isn't worth fulfilling, because of the sacrifices that it demands.  He gets "character" and walks away a free man.
This is a great movie.  Won several Academy Awards and is probably one of the top 100 American movies ever made. That's all you need to know.