Atmosphere makes all the difference sometime in a true horror classic.  Mario Bava stops at nothing to create the ultimate atmosphere of fear and  terror in this movie (which was no doubt copied over and over again by the  countless horror movies to follow). From Fog rolling in to stormy, broken  graveyards, you stare in amazement...at just how you can't help but feel  you're really there. For example, he takes you 360 degrees all around the  vampire crypt! Amazing, bingo, you're there! Mr. Bava also sets up scenes  with the feeling of "impending doom" (ie: the little girl who has  to walk thru the forest to milk the cow, who is deathly afraid to do  so...in her innocence every frog that crosses her path, scares her...and we  know the vampires are right in her midst. Will they get her??...)  Barbara Steele is also perfection playing good and evil personified. Take  one look into those dark sultry eyes, and at her heaving breasts (with just  the right amount of cleavage showing...) This breathless beauty became an  overnight sensation from this film, and continued to make more horror films  (mostly, I believe, for HAMMER productions).I was a big fan of hers...she  almost made a film in America too...with Elvis Presley (you can hear more  about that in the wonderful commentary provided with the DVD)  Also,  remember when this movie was made (1960), and realize that there were some  shocking moments for the time, and jthere still are  today After seeing  many  of today's horror flicks, I still cringe at the "masking"  scene. It's nothing short of terrifying.  The movie is also in glorious  "black and white"...an ingenious thought by Mr. Bava. Because of  it, the movie succeeds gloriously...shadow after shadow, dark and light  play beautifully within this film. Bava goes all out when it comes to  fright. He's a master, again of atmosphere: shadows of a bat,an exploding  crypt, regeneration thru blood,...and the recurring theme of  "eyes"...  This movie is a true horror classic.  It is not to  be missed, especially this "uncut" version with a wonderful  commentary and publicity stills.  The movie is dubbed (though you see the  mouths moving and you know they're speaking English, some of the words are  not exact...as more of a script was added in the dubbing, but hey, that's  part of the fun with these horror classics). I gave this a 5 star rating.  Pick up a copy, you'll see why....then, don't even think about trading it  on one of those auction sites...this belongs in your collection, filed  under "horror". :)