I am a very easy-going fan of both books and movies, easy to please and very diverse in my tastes, so I am almost ashamed to write this review, but here goes...
Avoid this movie!
I absolutely loved the book and expected the movie to vary, but this was a horrible adaptation of one of my favorite books.  Marek was portrayed decently, but the other characters were flat and poorly acted.  The movie was not well paced and had I not read the book I would have had no idea what was going on.  The only parts of the book taken were the concept, the beginning (very loosely) and parts of the end (again very loosely).  What they decided to do in the middle was a complete mystery.  I feel that this book could very easily become an excellent film ... someday (Keep it away from Paramount). I have come to the conclusion that Donner can't direct and couldn't have survived without an excellent actor/actress with charisma in his films (like Mel Gibson in the Lethal Weapons).  This movie was one of the absolute worst films I have seen in recent years.  It beat out my old modern all-time bad film: MI-2, which at least had some action at the end to salvage an otherwise horrid film.  Unfortunately this film had no saving graces as such.  Again, I love the concept, I love the book, but keep Paramount & Donner away from good ideas, they will tear them apart to make ... yet another bad movie.
P.S. - another bomb of a movie to steer clear of is, (drumroll please) yet another Paramount production, Star Trek: Nemesis.  They took something they've had for years, a great show, then good movies & made an absolute stinker of a film.
I think I put more effort into this rant than the filmakers did in any of the mentioned movies in this 'review'.
If your looking for a medieval type film, watch something like Kevin Costner & Morgan Freeman in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, or a good time travel movie, watch a Terminator flick (good for the action anyway), Frequency or the Back to The Future Trilogy.  Don't waste time or money on this film.  Buy the book, you won't regret it.