I was wary of purchasing this movie, being as vampires are not my favourite "monster" ("creature," what have you).

However, I bit the bullet and went ahead because I appreciate Tim Thomerson, Bill Paxton, Lance Henriksen (especially) and Jenette Goldstein.

I was pleasantly surprised. It captured a mood I dearly love, of that sparsely-populated midnight hour, with the ghostly blue glow of streetlamps and nothing else for as far as the eye can see, and a very "80s" vibe, as well, by which I do not mean an excess of poofy hair, clothing of 18,000 colours, jacket sleeves pushed past elbows, Madonna and Cyndi Lauper.

Not to criticize any of these things (as that would be irrelevant to this review)...but more of a sort of midpoint between the pretty raw 70s (...and there I'm disincluding the disco portion) and the much more slick 90s. A sort of high level of technology (rich colour in film) from later, and yet the lack of gloss (high  shutter speeds, a little-TOO-crystal clarity) of earlier. A personal favourite "feel" for films.

Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed the performances of everyone involved in the film, and felt myself drawn strongly enough to Caleb, despite my prejudicial bias toward Lance, generally a good sign if someone can draw me from an actor I know to one I don't in terms of sympathy.

The "non-vampire" sort of vampire ideology is one I've seen before (the "never say 'vampire'" is similar to romero's "(almost) never say 'zombie'") but still maintains its interest. The scenes everyone seems to mention, the shootout (very reminisicent of westerns as Red and Bigelow originally desired to film) and the bar scene were quite impressive, as was the makeup and general costuming (but then I AM a sucker for dusters).

Truly a fascinating and different approach to a creature/monster/thing/entity/whatever that I tend to feel is fairly tired (granted; I do own The Lost Boys, Fright Night and a few others all the same).

PS:

Darkknight here references a "loss of picture" on this Widescreen DVD.

THERE IS NO PICTURE LOST.

Is there more picture on (full-frame) VHS releases? YES.

Why?

"Soft-matting."

Soft-matting is when a film is recorded in fully exposed 1.33:1 framed film, taking up the entirety of each frame in the film.

The "matting" refers to the process of adding the black bars for the theatrical release--"soft" because they are added to a pre-existing larger picture, as opposed to "hard" where they are added DURING filming by affixing an attachment to the lens that blocks off the top and bottom of it.

When they do full-frame releases of soft-matted movies, they do it the easy way, the way that doesn't take the work of pan and scan (finding the focus of the film's frames as it goes) and the way that does not result in picture loss. Thus the "extra" picture on the VHS release of Near Dark.

HOWEVER: this top and bottom film was generally NOT intended to be seen by the director. Most films were not and are not made with video releases in mind (mind you, there ARE exceptions, James Cameron apparently intentionally frames things so that both 1.33:1 AND 1.85:1 aspect ratios will work for his films) and so the final, matted, "widescreen" version is the INTENDED VERSION by the director.

Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is the most notorious example of this, wherein multiple gags/effects are "ruined" (in a surreal film like that, this is arguable, but they were NOT given away in the matted version of the film, so originally it was not INTENDED) by the removal of the black bars that matte the film.

Other instances result in the appearance of boom-mikes, cables, shadows and other objects which should not be seen and can result in a ruination of the suspension of disbelief.

So, be warned. More picture is not always more "correct," anymore than widescreen is always more picture or is always the "intended" version.