I can remember when this film first came out in the sword and sorcery boom of the early 80s, but did not actually see it until a couple of years later on VHS. After having watched it once, I was under its spell and have remained so ever since. In the late 80s and early 90s, it seemed as though it was on cable tv at least once every two or three weeks, and be it scheduled for two PM or two AM, ladies and gentlemen, I was in front of the television for every showing.I'm not exactly sure what insures it's hold over me. People have reported John Terry's portrayal of Hawk to be wooden, I prefer to think of him as the stoic hero who has difficulty displaying emotion because he is so purpose driven, expecially after his brother murders his wife. Crow the elf gives a real sense of what it would seem to be like to be an alien in your own world. As for the dwarf and the giant, every group needs someone to crack wise and a straight man for him to crack wise on. Patricia Quinn is also very good as the blind sorceress (I cannot bring myself to address her as Woman), my love for her coming from her portrayal of Magenta in RHPS. You can say that this picture is formulaic if you wish, and many have, but if you grew up in this era with a sentimental attachment to comic books, science fiction, and fantasy novels, then you know what I'm talking about. This picture speaks to the hearts of us who love all those things best. It it high budget ? No, clearly not. Does it have inconsistencies in plot (python in a diciduous forest)? Sure. Does it have Jack Palance chewing up every bit of scenery he can get his teeth into ? You better believe it does !!!!!! Does it have much loved character types and a storyline that we can all ride along with ? Absolutely. This picture may not be fantasy on the epic scale of Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings (but who ever thought anybody could adapt Tolkien's work to the screen that well ?, nobody at the time this picture was made), but it still owns my heart. Give me a cold wintry afternoon, fire in the den fireplace, curled up under the afghan, with the opening of Hawk the Slayer on cable tv, and twenty five years later, I'm still a happy man. :)