Can a movie be both enjoyable and mired with deficiencies? "Invictus" proves the answer is a hearty yes.

On the positive side Matt Damon gives a very restrained performance while Morgan Freeman is convincing and inspirational as Nelson Mandela. The rugby action scenes were breathtaking, as were the natural surroundings/background of the South African scenery. Some of the most powerful moments in the movie came when no one was talking or acting -- when the slums of the outlying townships and confines of Robben Island prison were shown.

That said, the movie is fairly one dimensional. It's a story about a President looking to unify a populace, and the rugby team he uses to achieve that goal. Aside from Damon's Francois Pienaar the viewer gets to know one other player on the team. Mandela's family is mentioned numerous times and is seemingly plays an important role in his decision-making, but there is only one scene where we see that side of him (and it seems like there was no good reason to keep the scene in the movie).

A sense of pacing is also lacking. As the movie opens it's about a year to the World Cup and the Springboks are getting smoked by England in a match. The next thing we know the team is having a couple practices (under a new coach that is never introduced), a coaching clinic in one of the townships and then all of a sudden it's the World Cup championship. Of course it's not feasible to show everything leading up to that final match, but more of the in between would have been nice.

It also would have been nice to see how the general population reacts to the team's quest for the Cup. We see a growing bond between Mandela's security men over the game of rugby, but nothing of what was transpiring among people outside the inner circle of the government and the rugby team itself. The movie is supposed to show how rugby and the Springboks' run in the World Cup helped heal the wounds of apartheid, but that is seldom, if ever, shown.

All said, a very enjoyable movie, but one with its share of flaws.