Gormenghast was a trilogy of fantasy novels written by an Englishman shortly after WWII. It is a work of fiction often overlooked and neglected, not as popular or heard of as Tolkien's Lord Of The Rings or for that matter, C. S. Lewis' Chronicles Of Narnia. But if you take a good look at the film version, (originally presented on BBC television in England, later aired on PBS) you can equate the terrific novels as the equal of the great fantasy classics. Like Tolkien and Lewis, these novels take the reader on a journey that is larger than life, a plot reveals multidimensional characters and the mood of the novel is many layred. It is anachronistic, comic, dark and lavish, nearly Shakespearean, with a dominant allegorical style. 
Gormenghast is an allegory for England, more than likely the England that the author was familiar with and the monarchy of its past. Tolkien and Lewis were also English and made it clear that certain locations, if not the entire fantasy world they wrote about, was England (i.e. in Lord of the Rings, Hobbitown is England Hobbits are English folk). There are many striking elements about Gormenghast and I will try to outline them without giving too much away. The largest character is that of Steerpike, an orphan boy who was raised as a kitchen boy in the royal household. Steerpike's bitterness becomes deep hatred and ambition to raise above those he considered his opressors. He begins to forge a plan to destroy the royal family. Assuming a powerful court position, Steerpike moves forward on his revenge, in a nearly Shakespearean determination for vengeance (we may recall Hamlet in this aspect. Note: Gormenghast has many Shakesperean elements. Steerpikes uses two inseperable twins, both girls, who want to acquire powerful court influence...The King is a bookphile, a once wise, efficient ruler but who in his old age becomes slow-witted and finally, insane....The King's daughter, Fushia, is evidently a parody of Ophelia from Hamlet, a lonely, imaginative, poetic soul, a young woman with naivete and a deep love for Steerpike...The unassuming, humble, adventuresome Prince Titus...Titus has no desire to continue the legacy of his father and rule as king...
An allegory of a monarch system ? Most likely. Perhaps the author was pointing out its flaws, its nuances, and he does so in a fantastic tapestry of locations and characters. There are times when the film borders on Gothic romanticism. This DVD is worth the price and it is clearly a remarkable collection for those who love fantasy film. In my personal opinion, and I say this with conviction, Gormenghast takes its place and makes its creed with Lord of the Rings and The Chronicles Of Narnia.