The truth is I really hate giving this movie a mediocre rating. Because there is so much I genuinely admire in it.

Perhaps the best place to start is with <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6305761078">Destination Moon</a>, which the producer, George Pal, released five years earlier. Destination Moon is a pure piece of hard science fiction. It's not a film with much interest in human relationships or emotions, and doesn't pretend otherwise. And taken simply for what it is, Destination Moon is superb. Made in the 1940's and released in 1950, seven years before the launch of Sputnik, it nevertheless depicted space travel in a serious and realistic way - and as something that could actually be achieved in the near-term. For 1950, this was an incredible triumph of imagination and insight. And blessed with the talents of famed space artist Chesley Bonestell, Destination Moon was at times truly awe inspiring to look upon. The lunar landscape backdrop is breathtaking even today.

Five years on and still two years before the launch of Sputnik, Pal released this film: Conquest of Space. And almost everything I just said about Destination Moon could equally well be applied to Conquest of Space. Judged purely as a piece of hard science fiction, Conquest of Space is also a masterpiece. It should further be added that the special effects are even more impressive than those found in Destination Moon.

But Conquest of Space tries to be more than this. It tries to tell a story of real psychological depth. It deals with how humans might respond to the demands and deprivations of long term space travel. In this it is clearly influenced by the problem of what was then termed "battle fatigue" (today we would say post traumatic stress) that would have been so familiar from WWII and the war in Korea.

It is in trying to tell this more psychologically complex tale that Conquest of Space gets into trouble. To be brutally frank, the talents of the actors and the screenwriters simply aren't up to the task. The workman-like performances (and in this pre Sigourney Weaver era, they were all men) that were entirely adequate, even appropriate in Destination Moon just don't deliver the goods in Conquest of Space. Which is why, as much as I hate to say it, when judged as a movie, Conquest of Space falls flat.

And yet... Even given all this, as I said in the beginning, I still find much to admire in this work. It certainly does not deserve the obscurity it languishes in today. For all its flaws, I would unhesitatingly recommend Conquest of Space to any serious fan of hard science fiction.

Theo.