Based on Austrian mountain-climbing Olympian Heinrich Harrer's memoir, Seven Years in Tibet is the story of West meets East. After escaping from a World War II British prison camp in India, Harrer (Brad Pitt) makes his way to the then-sovereign Tibet and, later in the film, forges an unlikely friendship with the young Dalai Lama.

Strong points:

1) The awesome photography of the Himalayas and of Tibet. The mist-shrouded mountain peaks and enoromous fields of tawny grass help kindle the sense of adventure and wonder.

2) John William's score, which I believe is one of his best. The main theme makes the hair on your arms stand up. I truly believe that the film would be half as good without his score.

3) David Thewlis' performance as Harrer's travel companion. Thewlis is one of the best character actors working today. I wish that he had played Harrer instead of Brad Pitt.

4) The terse editing. There's a lot of time and events in this film, and the editing crew did a fine job keeping the pace brisk without compromising the story (too much, anyway).

5) The portrait of the young Dalai Lama. The filmmakers never foget that he is, foremost, a child, and therefore he has child-like tendencies (spying, forgeting religious protocol). In many scenes, however, his maturity and wisdom are surprising, and the actor does an excellent job. You don't doubt him for a second.

Weak points:

1) Brad Pitt's performance. What can I say? He would have been one of my last picks to play Harrer. His accent is embarrassingly bad, and there's a silliness and frivolity about his performance that undermines the serious attitude of the film. Pitt excells at playing cocky characters, and, yes, Harrer is a bit of a bastard occasionally, but Pitt overdoes it. And I'm unconviced that Pitt's Harrer would be the least bit interested in making friends with the Dalai Lama.

2) The transition from book to film. Usually I like to read the book before the film, but this time, I did the reverse and found that the film served as an excellent "introduction" to the book, which is far superior and offers a much more intimate portrait of the Tibetan people before the Chinese invaded it. There were many moments in the book that seemed like a no-brainer to be put in the film but, amazingly, weren't.

3) The isse of language. Harrer spoke German and the Dalai Lama spoke Tibetan (or whatever their language is called). Everyone in the film, obviously, speaks English, whether they're really speaking German or Tibetan, so it's never clear when Harrer makes the transition from German to Tibetan. Can the Tibetans understand him at first? Can he understand them? They're both speaking English, yes, but one is speaking German, presumedly, and the other Tibetan . . . right?

Overall, this would have been a great film had someone else besides Pitt been cast as Harrer, but I guess the filmmakers felt the subject matter wasn't interesting enough for an American audience to justify casting a lesser-known (and perhaps better) actor.