Ever so often one discovers a movie that, although not well known, has a credible pedigree and an enthusiastic fan base. Barry Lyndon is not one of those movies. And, unlike many of these hidden treasures that I have found throughout the years, BL was the diamond in the rough that I had hoped (and so many had said it was).
It is a VERY pretty movie. The sets, costumes, scenery, music, and horses are all breathtaking; if gazing at beautiful but inanimate objects is your idea of a good film, this is your Citizen Kane. I applaud the rigorous use of only period music and costumes for an authentic look, but superficial beauty cannot carry a film alone. The music, though, can stand by itself, and is more worth the price than the movie itself is. Revel in it...
I am sure that Kubrick was very aware of the awe-inspiring authenticity and prettiness of this picture, and unfortunately, this comes across very strongly. It seems that the idea was something along the lines of "heck, even if the actors can't act, who cares? The audience will just be looking at the scenery anyway." This leaves the driving force of the film, the actors, as merely icing on a frivolous cake.
A good actor can make even the most gratituous role into a stunner; Ryan O'Neal is not that kind of actor. When in the role of Redmond Barry, a cad and social climber, O'Neal is asked to be devious, calculating, and grief-stricken - all the audience sees is a face devoid of emotion. A vacant stare does not a thespian make. I feel that Kubrick cast O'Neal to attract viewers with his star power, much like Jean Jaques Annaud did with Brad Pitt in Seven Years in Tibet. It is a pity that such a great director failed to elict a competitive performance out of his star.
The rest of the cast aquits themselves very nicely, though, with the exception of the man who plays Barry's step-son, who overacts most egregiously. 
The script. Ah, the fans and the critics are already queueing up, ready to give their opinions. Is it a deep psychological rendering of society and it's follies, or is it a tedious too-literal adaptation of a classic novel? I think it is a mish-mash of both, with the master of psychological movies fighting the bonds that come with adapting someone else's thoughts. My only large complaint is with the epilogue. The message of the movie itself seemed to be that one will get one's just desserts, but the epilogue's message is that it does not matter what one does in life, for all will be equal after death. These two ideas seem to conflict strongly - heightening my feeling that two minds were in opposition here - Thackeray and Kubrick.
The editing also leaves something to be desired. Yes, as was already stated, the views are pretty, but many of the scenes could have been drastically cut without damaging the movie or the aesthetic pleasure of viewing it. See especially the card game at the beginning, and the endless shots of Ryan O'Neal looking blankly into space.
All in all, this is a gorgeous movie with some very rousing battle scenes (albeit bloodless), but not much in the way of acting, drama, or substance.