Through the years I have watched PBS Masterpiece Theatre for its remakes of Classic Novels, but British TV didn't interest me because I normally don't watch "Typical TV" until I got married & started watching romantic movie comedies with my wife. Some of our favorites: "You-re Got Mail" & "Sleepless in Seattle" always had references to older Romantic classic movies or novels. Therefore we found ourselves watching & loving many Jean Austin remakes including several A&E DVD's. This lead to a British invasion within our house starting with "Darling Buds of May" & "All Creatures Great & Small". "Darling Buds of May" was a little racy for our taste & "All Creatures Great & Small" started out rather slow, but in the end we have been watching these 2 British TV Classics over & over. I then told my wife about "Upstairs Downstairs" & we decided not to buy the whole series, but to test out the first season. The series is rather racy for our tastes (as was "Darling Buds of May"), normally at a PG level, but at times travels up to a R rating & just when you think it will go too far, it jumps back to PG just in time. We were both surprise to see Pauline Collins of "No, Honesty" as a maid named Sarah in the first Black & White series. For my review, I will not write about the plots & characters because other people before me have done a great job & we need not repeat them here. As a professional photographer (wedding photographer for 15 years) & owner of a better than avg 5.1 audio video system (NHT 5.1) the Black & White series has better photography & sound: all very clean & clear. The color series on the other hand, is a wreak both sight & sound. There are at times late 1960ish TV lines that invaded the screen that throw off the timing of the sound. This must be a straight no edited copy that has no value as a piece of photography art, but a run through just to get the product out. In fact, there is a VHS hum throughout, something I never experienced with a DVD. As a British TV series with the actors & plot, I would rate this as a 4, but as a DVD a 2, therefore the avg out is 3. Both me & my wife will not continue with the series because there were no moral outcomes within the first season. Maybe this is not the place to start the series, but then again, where does one start if not the beginning?