I'm going through the list of AFI Top 100 movies, and for the most part it has been very enjoyable.  I was pleasantly surprised with titles like "All About Eve", "A Clockwork Orange", and "On the Waterfront".  Even the movies I didn't like weren't terrible, just not my kind of films.  When I got to "The Graduate", my enthusiasm for this effort was stopped dead cold.
I did not like one thing about this movie.  (Okay, Simon and Garfunkel's music... fine.)  What I saw was two of the most shallow, childish, and flat-out boring lead characters I'd ever seen in Mrs. Robinson and Benjamin.  Mrs. Robinson also had the added bonus of being especially hateful without any specific motivation.  Benjamin was not just too polite to tell her to get lost - he was spineless.  A vindictive bat and a jellyfish... how did this seem like a good idea?  Katherine Ross looks lovely as Elaine, but she's barely one-dimensional.  Maybe if Ben had been trying to get back at Mrs. Robinson, his interest in Elaine would have made some kind of sense.  As it is, it seems like some third grade infatuation with the girl next door.  Grow up, Ben...
The movie spirals from bad to worse after Ben goes to whatever college (Berkeley?) to "marry" Elaine.  The events go from being contrived to nonsensical.  How did Elaine and later her father find the house where Ben lived?  Why did ANYBODY believe Mrs. Robinson as much as she lied and manipulated?  And my favorite, why did Ben let his car run out of gas when he had just been at a gas station?  I know why, because some writer thinks it would be funny if he ran to the church instead of drove.  As for the ending... well, I was so glad the movie was over, I kinda liked it.  Maybe because it reminded me of an episode on "The Simpsons".
Had I been alive in 1967... I probably still wouldn't have liked it.  I might have understood the context better.  This movie is really bad, and I hope it is a blip on the screen in the judgment of the voters for the AFI Top 100 list.  Vote "Not Helpful" if you wish, but I'm usually positive about films in general.  I just didn't like "The Graduate".