I didn't buy this dvd to criticize it or take it apart. I bought it to own it and enjoy it---like most people. This is my absolute favorite movie. I looked forward to seeing all of the new features being released about this  movie. The special features were incredible---the work prints, the clips,  the trailers, character profiles,the deleted scenes----all of that was  pretty magical to me.  The problem that I had was with the overall quality  of the movie itself.  The sound was not top notch, and the movie was  entirely too dark----NOT the content(I love this movie!)I'm talking about  the color of the characters, backgrounds, etc...it seemed to have been  re-issued in a darker finish. The biggest disappointment, was that the  original soundtrack was not on the dvd as stated---there was an option to  choose it, called "isolated music score", but when you choose it,  you just get sent back to the beginning of the dvd menu. The other problem  that really messed-up the whole movie----certain colors were changed. For  instance: the color of the crystal became purple instead of that murky wine  color. Next, when the crystal was healed, after the rock and crust fall  from the walls, the brilliant white crystalline walls of the castle are no  longer white---the dvd shows these walls in brown---they seemed faded; not  how they were portrayed in the original. Next, when the Urskeks ascend to  their higher realm, they meld together and are swept into this beautiful  funnel of white energy and carried through the triangular portal over the  crystal.In the dvd, however, someone changed the white color of the energy  into GREEN; a serious contrast---it was so obvious. That was terrible.  Lastly, the sound dips and waves in two places----immediately after Kira is  brought back to life by the Urskek...right after her head moves. And the  sound also fluctuates at the exact point where the Urskeks disappear  through the triangle portal...right when the end music hits its climax. The  reason why I know so many of the flaws is because I have the laserdisk that  was put out a couple of years ago, and I played them both at the same  time---mirrored---I flipped back and forth just to see if my assumptions  were right.. There were major differences. The quality was just not there  for it being a re-issue. By all means---if you like this movie, then buy  the dvd---it's great to have and watch. Just understand that the money that  you are paying for this is strictly for the special features and not for  the movie itself. I never criticize things just to criticize. I don't  believe in nit-picking every little detail. This is simply not the Dark  Crystal that I have grown to know and enjoy. I firmly believe that if  you're going to take the time to bring back something so popular and  special to so many people, why do it halfway? Do it right, and make it big.