I call this transitional DVD because that's what this DVD is. To see Jeff Hardy's career in entirety upto now, you probably need all of 1. Twist of Fate dvd, 2. TNA Jeff Hardy Enigma dvd and 3. this dvd. Since Jeff is not really retired from wrestling for good, we might have to wait like another 20 years when WWE purchases TNA and produces 'Jeff Hardy - The Ultimate Anthology' with Jeff's career divided into categories of i) the Hardyz' first run in the WWE, ii) Jeff as a singles competitor, iii) Jeff is gone - independent circuits and TNA, iv) Jeff returns to WWE, v) the Hardyz' second run, vi) Jeff as the world champion, vii) Jeff takes a break and returns! viii) ........

Documentary: pretty well made but how hard can it be create a documentary on three years of Jeff Hardy's career? Some of the content was real and some kayfabe but it did its job.

Matches: well selected. I really have no idea how the WWE can make the worst match selections in some dvds (Mr. Perfect, Batista, Triple H, Ric Flair, Hulk Hogan Ultimate Anthology) and make solid selections in others (Bret Hart, Hulk Hogan Unreleased, Brian Pillman).

Now here is how I saw the matches.

Disc 1

Jeff Hardy vs. 1-2-3 Kid
Superstars - June 25, 1994
A match from Jeff Hardy's days as a jobber. Nice to see Jeff and Sean really young. Just a regular squash match except Jeff attempted his whisper of wind called a moonsault back then.

Triangle Ladder Match for the World Tag Team Championship
The Hardy Boys vs. The Dudley Boyz vs Edge & Christian
WrestleMania 2000 - April 2, 2000
(Alternate Commentary with Jeff and Matt Hardy)
A show stealer of WrestleMania 2000. I think this match really made Hardyz, Dudleyz and Edge & Christian what they are today.

Steel Cage Match for the World Tag Team Championship
The Hardy Boys vs. Edge & Christian
Unforgiven - September 24, 2000
Another TLC match but with Jeff being out of action for practically 10 minutes, it did not live up to its expectations. Matt did his best in the cage and the ending made up for it.

Hardcore Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Mike Awesome
SmackDown! - July 12, 2001
One of rare matches of Mike Awesome in the WWE. It's ok and that's really about it.

Ladder Match for the Hardcore Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. Rob Van Dam
SummerSlam - August 19, 2001
Another show stealer! This one even made the matches of Rock vs. Booker T and Kurt Angle vs. Steve Austin look just average. A lot of moves which only RVD and Jeff could do.

Jeff Hardy vs. Matt Hardy
Vengeance - December 9, 2001
I think the WWE writers were trying to find out whether this brother vs. brother angle could draw the same reactions from the crowd as Bret vs. Owen angle did. I felt this was a bit premature as the crowd simply did not respond. The 2009 angle was much better.

Jeff Hardy & Shawn Michaels vs. Chris Jericho & Christian
Raw - February 17, 2003
A good RAW material, meaning it wasn't PPV material but it served good 10 minutes.

DISC 2

Jeff Hardy vs. Edge
Raw - August 21, 2006
Jeff and Edge as top singles competitors, a long way from their days as top tag teams. It was like Bret Hart vs. Shawn Michales instead of The Hart Foundation vs. The Rockers.

Intercontinental Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Johnny Nitro
Raw - October 2, 2006
We knew Jeff was good and we knew Nitro/Morrison was good but we just didn't know how they are good together!

World Tag Team Championship Match
The Hardys vs. Lance Cade & Trevor Murdoch
Backlash - April 29, 2007
Although the Hardyz tried to make the other guys look good, there is simply so much one can do when the other guys simply don't have it. I think the enthusiastic crowd reaction was due to the fact that although they were happy to see Matt and Jeff together, they knew this reunion was going to be short lived.

#1 Contender's 4-Way Elimination Match for the Intercontinental Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. Shelton Benjamin vs. Santino Marella vs. William Regal
Raw - July 16, 2007
Jeff is Jeff. Shelton is literally golden standard. (I think Shelton is not being given the push he deserves). Regal is a rare, solid ground wrestler. What is Santino doing there?

Intercontinental Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Shelton Benjamin
Raw - September 17, 2007
I never understood why Shelton was not given the opportunities that Jeff got. Jeff deserves his due and credit but Shelton has always been a reliable wrestler ever since his debut who proved he is a world championship material over and over.

Ladder Match for the Intercontinental Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. Carlito
Raw - December 10, 2007
I like Carito's gimmick but I don't think he can bring out the best of Jeff in a match.

Winner Receives a WWE Championship Match at Royal Rumble
Jeff Hardy vs. Triple H
Armageddon - December 16, 2007
Why can't Triple H lose graciously instead of smirking it off like an undeserved upset?

Intercontinental Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Randy Orton
Raw - January 14, 2008
I think the WWE was trying to recreate Hogan vs. Warrior angle here but the differnce is that these two young wrestlers can really wrestle!

WWE Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Randy Orton
Royal Rumble - January 27, 2008
Orton deserved to win. Jeff proved he can be a main eventer instead of just a dare devil.

Jeff Hardy vs. Shawn Michaels
Raw - February 11, 2008
I think Shawn was a selfish egoistic jackass in the '90s but I give where the credit is due. Shawn has proven himself that he is willing to make the younger guys stars.

DISC 3

Falls Count Anywhere Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Umaga
One Night Stand: Extreme Rules - June 1, 2008
I don't think the WWE really knew what to do with the Umaga gimmick after he was defeated once. He could move unlike most of the wrestlers his size. Now that he has passed away, it is somewhat moving to see Umaga and Jeff in a rare match.

#1 Contender's Match for the WWE Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. John Cena
Raw - June 2, 2009
I know people love or hate Cena for different maybe same reasons. He is shoved down our throats as another Hulk Hogan. Eat your vitamins, work out and say your prayers. This was a good builup match for Jeff's match at the Extreme Rules.

Jeff Hardy vs. John Morrison
SmackDown! - July 4, 2009
I don't understand why they change John Hennigan's last name practically every year. What's wrong with him wrestling under his own name?
This is similar to their match three years ago but just the main event status is added to the both.

WWE Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Triple H
No Mercy - October 5, 2008
I thought Jeff and Triple H had some good matches but of course Mr. Levesque does not like to lose in the same way Hulk Hogan did not want to in the '80s and to this day!

Extreme Rules Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Undertaker
SmackDown - November 14, 2008
I am glad this feud did not last long. Adding a good wrestler with another good wrestler doesn't necessarily come to a good match.

Triple Threat Match for the WWE Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. Triple H vs. Edge
Armageddon - December 14, 2008
I loved Jeff chasing the championship. I loved him winning it even more. They all worked well in this match but again it was Adam who got pinned instead of Mr. Levesque.

Extreme Rules Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Dolph Ziggler
Raw - March 23, 2009
I think the WWE is really trying to push Ziggler to another level but it really isn't working. He is a good athelete but I don't think he has the X-factor.

Stretcher Match
Jeff Hardy vs. Matt Hardy
SmackDown - April 10, 2009
Another brother vs. brother match in the same way Bret and Owen had a series of matches for the year of 1994. They had no disqualification match at WrestleMania so it's a stretcher this time.

World Heavyweight Championship Match
Jeff Hardy vs. CM Punk
Night of Champions - July 26, 2009
Another excellent match between the two. People were bored with Orton/Triple H/Cena feud. This one outshined the other world championship match by a large margin.

Steel Cage Match for the World Heavyweight Championship
Jeff Hardy vs. CM Punk
SmackDown - August 28, 2009
I am going to miss seeing Jeff in a match with CM Punk but maybe it is time for Jeff to take a break and heal his injuries.