I have to honestly say this could be one of the best movies I've ever seen! I remember listening to B.I.G when I was 14 years old, everything hes ever done was lyrically amazing to me.  I saw the trailer for this movie and was really excited to see it.

First let me say I picked this up on Blu Ray, and the quality is top notch!  The on screen visuals are excellent, faces are perfect tone, and really glow!  whites are bright, blacks are dark and inky, excellent all around picture quality is definitely present in this disc.

Sound is also amazing with a 5.1 DTS HD soundtrack that really shines when you get the studio scenes, bass is deep, mids are razor sharp, and highs are crystal clear.  The dialogue also comes over perfectly, with no problems hearing conversations over background music or ambient sounds.

Now onto the movie...if I had to use one word it would be breathtaking!  I came into this movie expecting nothing more than 8 Mile (which I really disliked) and about on level with Get Rich Or Die Trying (another movie I wasn't a fan of) I guess I based this on the fact that Chris wasn't here to act his own character, I read James Woolard (Notorious) had never acted before...and was a bit skeptical as to the performance he would give, to my surprise it was JAW DROPPING!

Everything from the voice to the look was spot on, and I couldn't wait to hear him speak, it just reminded me of that awesome voice he has on all his tracks.  The characters playing Sean "puffy" Combs, Lil Kim, Faith Evans, and D-Roc, were all amazing, and wonderfully acted!

The story is heartwarming and at times hard to swallow, but to my amazement the amount of "gang" related material was almost non existent, which is a nice change from movies like Hustle and Flow, and Get Rich Or Die Trying...every scene seemed like somebody was fighting or getting shot.

In my honest opinion, even if your not a fan of Hip Hop, or Notorious B.I.G for that matter, you owe it to yourself to watch this movie!  I'm not gonna give any story details away, only the fact that the script, and acting is excellent!  Ill even admit the end of this movie even got my eyes to well up a bit...and that never happens!!

Either rent this movie, just to enjoy the excellent story, or pick it up and add it to your collection...it definitely moved to the top of my movie list!