My wife and I decided to watch this after seeing a preview for it. A word of warning.  As with many previews, you got the impression of an action film that was mostly combat.  It would be a profound disappointment for anyone expecting that, as it has both plot and a rich historical and cultural background that is often lacking from action films.

We had both seen and love "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", and enjoyed "The House of Flying Daggers."  This movie lies somewhere between the two, and should not disappoint if you let it stand on its own instead of judging it on the manga on which it is based.  The cinematography and scenery is absolutely gorgeous, and rates at least two stars.  The combat sequences are excellent, amazingly so given the moderate budget this film had.  The film could not climb much above three stars if that was all it had.  However, it also has a story, that is both solid and at times, clever.

The story does not exactly translate into the neat category of "tragedy" (and of course "comedy") that Western literature often falls into.  However, the world it occurs in is very different.  This is the Japan at the end of the Sengoku period, when the Tokegawa Shogunate was established and began a reign of peace, stability, and stagnation that would last over 200 years.

The Shinobi are mystical warriors who have thrived on the conflicts of the preceding centuries.  They no longer fit in this world of peace, yet there is no simple way to deal with them.  The movie revolves around this conflict, between the two conflicting Shinobi clans and the new Japan that has no place for them.  From these basic ideas the plot of the movie flows, and it does it quite well.  It helps to understand some of the basics of Japanese culture, from the reverence for the authority (the Shogun in this case as the representative of the Emperor though the Shogun is actually in charge - as I said, this is Japan) to the omnipresent, and sometimes suffocating, sense of obligation that pervaded the culture, and how Japan has had to deal with seismic cultural shifts many times in the past.

There are not plot spoilers here, everything is explained fairly well during the first 20 or 30 minutes.  The story is a love story, caught within a web of obligation, destiny, and fate that makes it doomed from the start.  Kouga Gennosuke refuses to accept this, and heroically struggles against the obligations and tradition that require him to see his true love, Oboro, as the enemy since she is from the opposing clan.  She is more fatalistic, and the film takes this love and sets against not just this conflict but the determination of the Shogunate that the Shinobi represent a threat to the new peace that has been established.  To solve this "problem", the Shogunate decides to require the five strongest warriors from each clan to fight to the death, with the winning side determining the next Shogun.

The movie takes off from there.  There are numerous combats as Kouga Gennosuke tries to prevent, and when he is unable to do this, limit the carnage from the challenge.  Of course, being feudal Japan, the machinations of those in charge are a backdrop that continues to add more and more complexity that is revealed as the remainder of the film progresses.  If you are unfamiliar with the orignal anime, you are never quite sure if the two lovers will escape their fate.  The ending caught us by surprise.  It is neither "happy" nor "tragic" in the context of Japan and it's culture.  Instead there is a unexpected twist as these warriors, rejected by the new era, give their people one last chance, with a sacrifice and surrender that is profound, and uncommon in Western cinema.