The "That's The Way It Is" Special Edition DVD shows Elvis' creative talent and solid work ethic as well as his magnetic personality which was a balance of unusual humor and seriousness. His charisma is special and something that the people around him were clearly drawn to judging by the way they looked at him and interacted with him both on and off stage. The DVD also shows how great looking Elvis truly was. His looks are just too hard to explain! He was a great looking guy who could sing and charm even the birds right out of the trees with his voice!

The DVD shows Elvis' versatility as a musician in that he could sing and perform to all kinds of music including blues, soul, country, rock and soft or power ballads. But it proves that even though his voice had matured and he was singing and performing better than he ever had, that this was a beginning of a strange period (1970-1977) when he was robbed of more top ten hits despite the great recordings he had created during that time. The DVD proves how he did an excellent job in organizing his TCB band (with the help of Charlie Hodge) because they can clearly play anything Elvis wanted them to. Many of the TCB band members were some of the top studio musicians during the mid to late 1960's before Elvis hired them to form his TCB band after the '68 comeback special, especially for his Las Vegas comeback in July of 1969. His legendary lead guitarist, James Burton, would later become a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

One special feature of the DVD is when Elvis brings his own interpretation to songs made popular by other people such as You Don't Have to Say You Love Me and Mary in the Morning.

Elvis also shows that he was a fan of some of the Beatles music as he does a great job with Get Back which is accompanied with his hit from the early 60's, Little Sister (several months earlier he had performed the Beatles Yesterday on stage which was included on his "Elvis on Stage: February 1970" album and later he would record in studio the Beatles popular song Hey Jude).

The moves he conducted throughout TTWII are unbelievable. His experience with karate (he was an 8th, some even claim a 9th, degree Black belt at the time of his death) certainly payed off as he incorporated some karate influenced moves into his show and the fans loved it! He makes the hip-shaking Elvis of the 1950's look simple compared to Elvis 1970. He prowls the stage like a tiger in a jungle whenever he walks and he energizes the stage with wild moves whenever he is interpreting a song as he attacks each song with an intensity and emotion that came from the depth of his soul.

One feature of the DVD that is special is the part at the end that shows Elvis mingling with people backstage, especially celebrities, including older ones such as Sammy Davis Jr., and Cary Grant, who are drawn to Elvis and curious about him proving that in a roomful of celebrities, it is Elvis who forever rules!

My only criticisms of the DVD is that it should have contained some of the material from the original film. For example, most fans were very upset that Sweet Caroline was not included in the DVD version. This has long been a favorite among Elvis fanatics because of the way Elvis sang and moved to this classic Neil Diamond hit. Also, the DVD is only 95 minutes long which is no excuse for this type of DVD especially knowing that there are several hours of concert footage in the vaults, including complete concerts. In comparison, the '68 Comeback Special Deluxe Edition has over 7 hours of material! Therefore, it seems that the fans were ripped off in that regard. Maybe a deluxe edition of TTWII should be produced that includes more concert and studio footage especially showing two different versions of the same song? For example, Just Pretend was on the original TTWII album, but it is performed slightly different by Elvis and his band on the DVD version. It would be great if they had filmed a performance of the album version and included it on a future DVD release along with the current version on the Special Edition DVD! Furthermore, only a couple of moments in the DVD (coarse language, jokes) should have been edited out as they are not entirely appropriate for the general audience which Elvis was always publicly sensitive to. Why exclude Sweet Caroline and other music for material that is not of any entertainment value for music fans? However, seeing him clown around with his circle of friends (some would later betray him) is interesting to see for some fans since it is of historical importance. Elvis always had a childish streak that sometimes went overboard especially around his male friends as the DVD proves. At least he had some religious people in his circle at that time who reminded him of his religious roots although this part of Elvis' roots are never seen in the DVD (that would not happen until the documentary "Elvis on Tour" came out a couple of years later and when the He Touched Me video/Cd came out a few years ago).

Still, this is a DVD that has a ridiculously low retail price and is worth buying whether you are an Elvis fan or not because this is about history and about one man who redefined popular music and became a legend. It is mostly about Elvis and his music and how he would want us to remember him.