Most, if not all of Paul Newman's films have him portraying characters that are cocky, shallow, and self-satisfied.  This is not the case with "The Verdict."  In this excellent Sidney Lumet masterpiece, we see Newman as down and out lawyer Frank P. Galvin unknowingly seeking restoration and redemption.

As the movie opens, we see Galvin as an ambulance chasing drunk who spends most of his time in front of a pinball machine. What work he does get is in the form of charity given to him by an old friend, Mickey Morrissey, played skillfully by Jack Warden.  One of these cases is that of a young woman essentialy brain-dead because of the mistakes of two high powered doctors.

At first, Galvin approaches it in his typical half-hearted 'give a damn' style.  But at a very important part of the film, Galvan rediscovers his honor and character.  He turns down a generous settlement from the doctors and hospital preferring instead to reach for justice by taking the case to trial.  Even his closest friends urge him to accept the settlement.  Seeking what is right over what is expedient becomes Galvin's driving force.

As the movie unfolds he is challenged by ruthless and dishonest people who seek to thwart him at every turn.  The defense attorney Edward J. Concannon played brilliantly by James Mason is powerful and ruthless.  From there the movie evolves into a true 'edge of your seat' nailbiter between a man whose prime concern is winning at any costs and in any way possible and another whose primary motive is what is right.

You will be kept guessing as this movie takes sharp turns through the maze of the legal system.  All of this as one man fights not only for the injured but for his own life.  This is the best film Paul Newman ever made and with a gifted supporting cast around him the film is first rate.
Also, this DVD set contains a disc about the making of "The Verdict" with very interesting trivia and facts.

This movie takes you through the whole range of human emotions.  Its ultimate message is timeless and will have you thinking about it for a long time.  Five HUGE stars for this one!