In one of this new DVD collector's edition supplements, Kiefer Sutherland states that after watching this film, he never looked at street people the same again. That is the principle (but not the only) strength of this film; it humanizes people that tend to be invisible to us when they are not viewed as nuisances to our consciences.

  Right from the beginning, we know that Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is headed for trouble. His naïve optimism only grows more acute the farther away from the simple rural life he left behind and closer to the cynicism of the Big City. The fact that he wants to be gigolo suggests that he believes life without resources or a skill in New York City will be as simple and pain-free as it was back in his hometown. Nothing could be further from the truth, as he soon finds out.

  Enter Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) who knows only too well the requirements of survival with limited options. Ratso has no skills other than hustling, but even in that he fools no one but first-timers like the unsophisticated Joe.  By the time they meet again after Ratso cons Joe out of his money during their first encounter, Ratso's physical condition has deteriorated to the point where he can no longer survive on his own, so it is natural for him to invite Joe to move in with him inside a condemned building; Joe accepts this offer, since he knows he can't survive on his own either. From that point, the two outcasts form a bound based upon mutual aid in a nightmarish world where their only consolation is unrealized dreams.

  They simply don't make movies like this anymore, and the current generation of filmgoers have been robbed of the profound visceral and emotional effects of great adult drama (The Crying Game is one the few more recent exceptions, if you call 1992 recent). The video and audio are of course much improved over the initial DVD release, but although I found the supplements-including the audio commentary--to this new edition somewhat inadequate, it is never-the-less a pleasure to hear the Voight and Hoffman describe how this film effected them as profoundly as it did, and to learn of the courage of the filmmakers (especially director John Schlesinger) to overcome all obstacles to make this film as great as it could be.