The only things I can compare Repo Man to are "Naked Lunch" by William S. Burroughs, "White Noise" by Don Delillo and "Atomised" by Michel Houellebecq. It is a dark satire of modern society that shows us characters who are archetypal punks: aware of the total lack of inherent meaning to life (nihilism), caught in a society that's obviously in decay, they try to navigate past the hypocrisy, stupidity, corruption and lies to find a life they can admire themselves for.

Into this framework, director Alex Cox drops unlikely anti-heroes: Repo men re-possess the cars of the presumably innocent, but they also have a code. And they seem to be living for something. Yet even they get caught up in the tangled web of ego (there's a slight Buddhist perspective to this film) and dragged down, but some find a way to thrive, usually by throwing away all of the things that society would respect them for.

If you want a movie about a Nietzschean undergang, this is it: pure nihilism that strips away the illusions of modern society and replaces them with a gritty struggle for survival. It does so with one of the most offbeat dry senses of humor ever seen on film, with not only nothing sacred, but the formerly sacred sought for mockery. This film also has an uncanny insightful eye into the excesses of the 1980s and the obvious hollowness of the institutions and idols we considered important as a culture back then.

As if that weren't enough, it's also a ripping storyline that takes us through the underbelly of a modern city in pursuit of a modern holy grail. While many of these characters are punks, a good many others could have walked in off the street and we would have believed them, but when presented in the ludicrous context of this movie, they stand revealed as the larger-than-life illusions that they are. Do you like seeing people ignore society's reality in order to struggle for a goal? And in doing so, to go everywhere their parents warned them not to go? This is the movie for you.

It's only fair to mention that even if you don't like punk music, the soundtrack to this movie covers all of your bases. Suicidal Tendencies, Black Flag, Iggy Pop, The Circle Jerks and associated punk classics, as well as atmospheric instrumentals from The Plugz (an ad hoc band of former punk celebrities) really guide this movie by tuning us to the source of its characters' discontent. If you like postmodern fiction, particularly from the Burroughs-Delillo-Pynchon nexus, and just like a good ripping movie, Repo Man is where it's at.