It is hard to know what to say about this movie--or movies of this type in general.  By  this I mean:  beautiful-looking, well-made movies that contain very controversial content which by its nature polarizes audiences.  That either love it or hate it thing.  In the very least this movie ignites again the argument about art, and then people get all defensive trying to defend the meaning or intent of the movie, its artistic value, the performances.

This movie is visually interesting, at times starkly beautiful.  The music chose to score the film is also lovely, and tends to throw the content into even greater relief because of the juxtaposition of beauty and violence, for example.

But mainly I just thought the movie was plain boring and contrived, and not very original.  I never see films or books or any sort of art as Truth (with a capital T)--as though any person could have such a privileged perspective.  Art is more about an expression of personal "truth"--the truth being a product of who we are in our place and time in culture.  That we are in a sort of decadent, jaded phase is pretty clear to me.  This movie just cements that fact.  In movies that are as heavily laden with imagery and metaphor as this one--none of it all that original if you think about it for a moment--you are kind of bamboozled into thinking that you are seeing something profound.  Particularly if you throw in some genitalia and sexual violence, in the presumption that we are diving into profound truths of the human condition, everyone seems to be in such awe.  It prevents people from seeing, for lack of better words, that the emperor doesn't really have clothes.

By this I mean it's all been done before; themes of guilt, misogyny, sex/death, not to mention the rather cliched psychology.  But maybe it hasn't been as well-crafted as this film, or quite as explicit.  I'm not quite sure why this director has to be so extreme, it kind of hints at an adolescent personality who still needs to break the rules in order to feel naughty and special.

I suppose as I get older, I realize that I don't want to waste my time on "art" that reduces us to our supposedly basest natures.  I work with very small children and having observed them closely, I believe we are born quite innocent and full of potential--NOT in sin--and our lives are twisted by how we are raised--both in the physical and psychological environments.  I thought I'd give this film a try because I generally like the work of Willem dafoe, and I did like "Breaking the Waves," though the ultimate premise of the movie was pretty unbelievable (again, if you think about it).

I'm sort of tired, I suppose, by films that propose the worst about us.  That somehow it is more true and profound than what is the best about us.  I personally find the daily struggle just to find meaning in the day and keep a roof over one's head sufficiently compelling to be a proper subject of ART.  So ultimately, this visually arresting and provocative film seems simply to me the self-indulgent kind of hysterical musing of a rather psychologically immature man.  So there you are.