I am a huge, huge fan of Alice In Wonderland/Through The Looking Glass.  I have seen just about every single version ever made and have most on DVD.  I even have the original silent film version from 1903 on DVD.  I now have this Alice DVD and have also seen the Tim Burton film in the theater.

What I really love about this "Alice" film is it's so different and unique from any other Alice films.  Most others are more fantasy and more for children.  But this version, while children can enjoy it, is more mature and just aimed more for adults like myself.  My all time favorite version is the 1985 two part version that had Natalie Gregory as Alice but I really love this film about as much really.  I've seen so many different versions and love them all for different reasons but I'm really feeling like this version or take on the story is in my top 3 now of Alice films.  The 1985 version and the version with Miranda Richardson are the others that I really love more than others.

This Alice played by Caterina Scorsone is so awesome as Alice.  She's not helpless.  She's able to take care of herself, and has a much more reason to be in Wonderland because she has a real purpose.  Someone very close to her is in Wonderland and she has to try to find them.  I won't spoil the film but this is one of many reasons this film stands out more for me.

The Mad Hatter, who is played by Andrew Lee Potts in this is also very smart and awesome in this.  He has so much more personality than most of the other mad hatters from other films.  He is so attractive as well which is a plus!!

I really love the March Hare in this as well and he's really called Mad March and he is so hilarious!  One of the best lines in this film is from Mad March and it's so funny when the Queen of Hearts who's played by Kathy Bates asks him how he is.  She asks "Mad March...how...are...you...today?"  and he replies "Piss...off...you...cow!"  LOL!!  It's just so funny and he is a robot so that's why you see it written like that.  You just have to see it.

Speaking of The Queen Of Hearts, Kathy Bates is brilliant in this role!  They casted the perfect person to play the queen.  I love her facial expressions as well.  There's this one part when she wants Alice to come to the throne room and the King of Hearts says she's escaped.  The expression on her face is priceless!

The Dodo is played by Tim Curry.  I have to say that he is so funny when is talking about the Hatter playing two sides of the court and trying to get two trophies and he says "you swarrrmm about" and it's the way he says it that I find it so funny.

The whole idea for the film is all the people look like regular people but they all play a part from the original story.  You have these men who are playing the deck of cards but they are dressed up in black suits with numbers on them.  This is such a unique film because it's like a sci-fi and drama version.  There are no musical numbers in here.  It's so weird and magical and at the same time, very modernized and dramatized.  I love the chemistry between Alice and Hatter.  I won't give anything away but believe me, you'll find out why I love them together.

Another thing I have to mention is the setting.  I love how there are no streets and bottomless pits and the casino where the Queen is, is made of playing cards.  You have this amazing forest hiding a long forgotten fortress and people ride on mechanical flamingos.  It's just so awesome.  They really did an awesome job with this film.  It's a must buy for any Alice fan who doesn't mind a different take on the story and who likes sci-fi and drama.  Well, I should say it's more of a return to wonderland.  It's not a remake but more like a sequel than anything.  But if you've seen the Tim Burton film where it's more fantasy, this film is like a return to wonderland but more sci-fi and drama.  I have to say that if I have to choose between this film and the Tim Burton film, while I love the fantasy a lot, this film I love more just because it's deeper and makes you think more.  But I love both films of course.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!