This has got to be one of my favorite Disney fairy tales of all time. I'm so glad this cam out on DVD, and I'm really looking forward to getting it for myself this weekend. The song "A Dream Is A Wish Your Heart Makes" basically sums out the entire story: A young girl named Cinderella (Illene Woods) dreams of a better life, and has the one opportunity to make it happen when an invitation from the palace comes to invite her to the ball. But, she nearly gives up on her dreams when her evil stepmother (Eleanor Audrey, "Sleeping Beauty") & 2 jealous stepsisters ruin her dress made by her animal friends. But with the help of a very motherly fairy godmother (Verna Felton, "Dumbo", "Alice in Wonderland", "The Jungle Book"), Cinderella's dream of meeting Prince Charming (Mike Douglas, "The Mike Douglas Show") comes true. And the rest is history.

This timeless fairy tales reminds all of us that the work you do towards others can sometimes create its own rewards or its own punishments. And with a little bit of hope, dreams really can come true.

I especially love the Bonus Features they have to offer. OK. I admit that the music video by Disney Channel's Circle of Stars (Raven, Orlando Brown, Annaliese Van der Pol, Kyla Pratt, Ricky Ullman, etc.) is a little awkward to sing in a pop version instead of a ballad. It would of been nice to see the music videos of this or another song sung by either Michael Bolton, Linda Ronstadt, Kimberly Locke, or James Ingram. But other than that, it sounds really nice. I also liked the behind the scenes, deleted scenes & songs, and special showings of the cast & crew on television in the past & present. The ESPN Cinderella stories have a lot to do with fairy tales, because in a way, anyone, including athletes, can live a Cinderella story. And all stories are the same. "And they lived happily ever after."

The one thing I wouldn't recommend is the behind the scenes making of "Cinderella III". It's a way too scary for the stepmother to wind back the clock before the ball. Sorry Disney, but this was a bad idea.

Buy this magical DVD today. It doesn't last forever, so buy it before the stroke of 12:00 on the last day it's out!