This is truly an entertaining film that got swept under the rug and forgotten.  I remember catching The Flesh Eaters as a kid growing up in the late 70's on WTOG's Creature Feature in Tampa.  All these years later, The Flesh Eaters remained in my memories years later.  I think it was the first movie where I saw a human skeleton and ran out of the house screaming. That is probably why I remember it. Anyway, modern horror fans will get a kick out of this because it covers so many different horror motifs.  First, you have Byron Sanders who plays the down-on-his-luck pilot, Grant Murdoch.  Sanders is a dead ringer for Bruce Campbell from the shape of his face to his classic one liners and even the same dead pan humor.  I can't believe how much Sanders reminded me of Campbell.  Then you have Martin Kosleck who plays the mysterious Proffessor Peter Bartell who has that creepy German accent that is so closely associated with Nazi stereotypes in film.  You also have the cute girl next door, Barbara Wilkin who plays Jan Letterman an assistant to the drunk and obnoxious Laura Winters played by Rita Morley.  Miss Winters needs a flight to make it to her next movie gig and Bryon Sanders desperately needs cash.  At first he is reluctant to go but is persuaded by the beautiful Barbara Wilkin.
 The four take off and are forced to land on a deserted island that is surrounded by flesh eaters that appear as strange glowing lights in the water.  With all the talk about the oil spill in the Gulf, The Flesh Eaters provides a much-needed relief from the news and current events.
 Soon the four meet the scary German, Prof Bartell, who you quickly suspect is up to no good.
 Then thanks to the treachery of Prof Bartell and the whining and complaining of Miss Winters and her drunken rants, everyone is stuck on the island and surrounded by flesh eaters.  Prof Bartell and Sanders discover a skeleton holding a bikini top and that is where I ran out screaming at the age of 6.
 The Flesh Eaters works on a number of different motifs.  You have Political Horror in Prof Bartell and hints of Nazi war atrocities. You have Survival Horror as those stuck on the island grate on each others nerves and put up with each other only to risk death as the flesh eaters inch their way closer and closer to the shoreline.  You have, the obvious, Environmental Horror, when those strange glowing living organisms that eat right through flesh and leave behind bones.
 It is interesting that a black and white movie made back in 1964 is still so entertaining.  After re-watching it all these years later, I'm in my late 30's now, the movie still hooks me in.  Just watch the first scene and the movie draws you in and keeps your attention right up to the end and beyond.  Perfect for late night Friday and Saturday nights for all those who still have a soft spot for classic horror.