I'm not sure what most of the other reviewers are seeing in this very poorly done production, but this is the worst movie commentaries I've seen by members of the former MST3k crew (which includes Nelson's commentaries on various remastered films from Legend Films).  It was actually worse than Hollywood After Dark, which I gave a higher rating than I would normally just because it showed potential.  Unfortunately, this only seems to defy my belief in the potential by being duller than Hollywood After Dark.

The film itself is ripe for the jesting on so many levels, but like Hollywood After Dark there are so many moments where they just let the movie go on by itself, and usually during moments of silence.  Furthermore, the jokes made typically just weren't funny.  Not from lack of trying, but more from the lack of a solid writing team like the one that was present with MST3K.  Sure, we love Mike's on screen attitude and look/sound, but it greatly shows that the trio sadly needs the rest of the writing crew from MST3K and just aren't capable of providing the overall quality that most of us look for in these type of movies.

The one good thing I can say about Killers From Space, in comparison to Hollywood After Dark, is that at least one of the skits was funny (the dead pan look - they gave it some name I can hardly recall let alone spell).  The bonus skit was just a waste of time.  It was a cute idea, but it was ruined with using lines that just weren't funny.

When I rated Hollywood After Dark, I gave it +1 star since it had the potential.  I cannot do the same here.  Considering I barely laughed once through the whole movie and had to watch it twice in a row to really see it all since the first time I ended up checking my e-mail and browsing the Web after I lost interest in the movie and the commentary about half an hour into it.

Again, if you're a fan of MST3K, you'll probably want to own this regardless of how bad it is (or isn't; your opinion may vary).  But, if you're new to these types of productions, go out and get one of the MST3K volumes rather than this.  They have more movies and at least one of them will be a whole lot more fun to watch than either of the Film Crew films out so far.