I hate to be a spoiler, but some of these reviews just don't give Lynch the respect he deserves. If I've missed a review that covers all of this, I apologize.

Most of this film takes place in Fred Madison's mind while he's being electrocuted in the chair. Ever wonder why all the mysterious flashing blue light sprinkles the movie? The lightning? What about the bloody noses? What about the flickering lights?

What about when Pete's face is burnt and bruising? His buddy just says he's not looking so good, and his response is that he hasn't been feeling well lately. Is there dream logic in this film? Sure, considering that dreams come from the subconscious, which is where Fred is hiding during that infinite moment of death, trying to justify his actions. He is no longer the emasculated husband, but a young stud, who is so irresistible that a gangster's wife, who's likely to be killed for cheating, is willing to risk it.

Fred literally cut his wife in half. Do you think it's a coincidence that There are 2 of her in his fantasy? One is the woman he thought he married, the other is a whore.

Who's voice says that Dick Laraunt is dead in the intercom at the beginning? That's right, The guy with the phone, Robert Blake. Who is this guy? He's Fred's dark side, the one who does these things for him. For Twin Peak fans, this is Bob.. And I also believe it's the Homeless Man from Mulholland Drive. "He's the one who's making it happen." When Fred asks him who he is, he responds with the same question.

Remember when the gun changes hands at the end? Mystery man disappears... he was never there. Who speaks into the intercom at the end? Fred. Case closed. It's the same incident as the first intercom line. This is not reality. It only happened once.

Why doesn't Fred like videotapes? Because he likes to remember things his own way. Thus, the method of storytelling is revealed. The video tapes are the truth, the rest is an elaborate fantasy that Fred has conjured up to deal with remorse, guilt, and betrayal.

What is it that happened the other night? Why won't his parents tell him? He killed Renee, but he doesn't remember at this point.. he's blocked it out. I submit to you that the ENTIRE film occurs while Fred is in the chair.

Lynch takes out the one scene that would pull everything into perspective - Fred sitting down for the last time. This movie is quite similar to Mulholland Drive. Many may consider me to be reading way too much into this movie.. Ok.. Go watch it again. You'll see.... You'll see.

If you still doubt, join David Lynch.com and visit the member questions. When asked if there is any hope for Fred Madison, lynch replied to the effect of, 'yes, there's always hope to escape the vicious circles of life and death.' Think about it.