i think this film is a landmark for what hollywood can do to what should in all terms be a landmark film. leave it to hollywood to take a fantastic story, throw an enormous budget at it and still manage to screw things up. visually stunning, yes; a good film, i'd say in spite of everything still pretty good; but the heart of it seems ripped out by dubious choices. first and most aggregious in my mind is bound to cameron crowe's obsession with popular music. in almost famous it all worked, but that was a movie ABOUT music. here the music is beyond intrusive: it rings in at ridiculous moments, drowns out everything that is on screen, seems as though it is only there to force us to feel a certain way and at that something we shouldn't be feeling in concert with where the film is at that point. then there's the end. i don't know why filmmakers these days feel like they have to spell everything out in a series of flashback cuts with voice-overs. take a hint from american psycho and mulholland drive, for instance: films about unsteady grips on reality are more powerful when they create unsteadiness and leave you to determine just what personal and social factors are creating such problems in the film. i almost feel as though "tech support" is an inside joke in hollywood, something producers think is necessary in order to appease what they view as an impatient and insentient fan-base. if not, it certainly works as a nice allegory. other things bother me, too. i hate, for instance, the dichotomies of dream and nightmare, sane and insane, conscious and unconscious-- allow me some grey area to swim in. and the discomfort continues. still, though, i do feel it's worth watching-- gorgeous visually, even a good film. it's just lamentable that it should be great but isn't, and you have to watch it do that to itself.......
(abre los ojos, the spanish original, does better with the filmmaking but lacks the budget to make it as visually engaging as vanilla sky (it takes a lot of dough to clear out times square))