The characters of "The Way Back" are victims of the Soviet's war of terror on anyone who they suspected as being a threat.
The director shows the way it operated. Janusz (Jim Sturgess)a Polish soldier captured in the 1939 Nazi/Soviet invasion of Poland is tortured to confess to treason. When he doesn't his wife is tortured to provide the evidence. Everything needs to be by the book. Charges, confessions and signatures are required.

Our introduction to the Gulag is swift and the preoccupation of the inmates revolves around survival, which entails keeping warm, getting enough to eat, staying away from dangerous jobs and looking after No.1!

The period in the Gulag reminds me of the book by Alexander Solzenisyn, "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich", a book which can provide a deeper insight of life in the Gulag for those that are interested.

The film is beautifully filmed and I wish I'd seen it at the cinema to take in the panoramas, although as other reviewers have noted it seems a little rushed in places.

The actors are superb. I think Colin Farrell as Valka was superb. Valka being a Russian thug who wanted to join in the escape, but could never be fully trusted by the group. Mr Smith (Ed Harris), the veteran who provided the backbone to the escapees. The suporting actors all played their parts with gusto. They were joined by Irena (Saoirise Ronan), daughter of misguided Polish Communists who had moved to Moscow and been subsequently arrested. Irena had escaped and been living wild when she had latched onto the group. Irena adds a gentle balance to the gruff band of starving, exhausted escapees.

A stirring moment comes when the group comes to the Great Wall of China and they cross this barrier looking around in amazement.

Again I find moments in the film rushed and the very final moment could have been drawn out further, but overall I found this a very moving experiance. As one of my parents family suffered deportation to Siberia and had to endure a nightmare journey through the Soviet Union to reach British Persia after the 1941 "amnesty" and freedom, elements of which such as starvation, exhaustion and death are echoed in this film, this film has special significance.

Janusz said when asked what he plans to do; "I'll keep walking till it's over...". Judging by the length of time it has taken for the Poles to regain freedom after WW2 (which the director admirably highlighted), the difficulties they had placed in their path and the obstruction and misrepresentation of their situation, many Poles are still walking.