Call me old-fashioned, but whenever I revisit a pair of A.I.P. Poe Classics like MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH & THE PREMATURE BURIAL, there are plenty of similarities that might have been missed 40 years ago!  Like many of you, I saw both of these in a movie theatre (back in the 60s) and enjoyed the atmospheric quality, the music and the occasional scares.  Those 'quick character cuts' married with Ronald Stein's music always made the pictures seem creepier than they actually were!  Corman's dream sequences were probably the strongest part of all of the Poe films that he directed. On this DVD, there are two short interviews with Roger where he explains how he managed to give these films an "A" quality look. With the use of excellent camera work (by Floyd Crosby) along with recycled sets from films like "BECKET", Corman definitely went beyond his "B" picture budget! In both of these movies, you also get to watch Hazel Court..an excellent under-rated actress..get her comeuppance.  She has a dream sequence with four demons in MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH, which ultimately leads to her demise by an angry raven!  In THE PREMATURE BURIAL, her phony devotion to her husband (played by Ray Milland) turns into an exercise of being buried alive! [Hopefully--MIDNITE MOVIES will eventually release the 1963 version of THE RAVEN where Court has great chemistry with Boris Karloff, Vincent Price and Peter Lorre).  All in all, the idea of pairing these two A.I.P. classics together is interesting.  Purists will probably hate PREMATURE BURIAL in favor of MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH, but there are strong points in both.  Hopefully, you've got a good monitor or television set capable of bringing out the color on these?  I noticed that both films looked somewhat dark on a bad TV monitor!  Fortunately, the transfers were done in letterbox so you get to see ALL of the scenes with ALL of the cast members. (Local TV stations who used to run these would usually show full flat prints eliminating cast members, or at least part of their bodies).  How about formatting more of these DVD double-features?  I'd enjoy a pairing of THE RAVEN & A COMEDY OF TERRORS?  Or perhaps THE HAUNTED PALACE and THE CONQUEROR WORM?