Quite possibly one of the most expensive movies in history and definitely one of the years most highly anticipated, Spider-Man 3 finally premiered last of all last Friday, May 4th, 2007 (It opened everywhere else internationally on May 1st). I was fortunate enough to attend my local theater's midnight premiere of the film and at the cineplex, anyone could have told you this movie was anticipated. But in the end, how did it measure up?

First off, the positives of the film. One of Spider-Man 3's best aspects undoubtedly was the special effects. SM3 utilized a new array of computer graphics programs given for use by Sony exclusively. And it sure paid off - New York never looked more brilliant, Sand-Man had lots of clear...sand, Venom was looking ferocious and more daunting than any other SM villain, and of course Spidey himself was in top-notch shape. All the fight scenes were thrilling to experience and the transitions from live-action actors and settings to CGI were seamless. Tied along with direction by Sam Raimi, Spider-Man 3 has developed into a visual delight for film goers and Spidey fans alike.

It also appears the crew didn't slack off in the areas of sound design and musical score either. All the sound effect and engineering was beautifully done. Pieces of a New York skyscraper falling apart, landing down below produced realistic impact effects. Most notably were the voice effects done with Venom's character: the shrilling heart-piercing cries and screams of the symbiotic villain frightening that I ever anticipated. Accompanying throughout the film was of course, the musical score. This time around SM3 featured a different composer than the original Danny Elfman of the first films, due to rough times working with Raimi the composer said. The film's new composer (Christopher Young) decided to keep the already existing themes of Spider-Man and the Goblin intact and with the new themes and scores, managed exquisitely to retain the wondrous feel of Elfman's original score while still creating a whole new tone for the third film.

The picture's acting was overall well performed and convincing. The three title roles played by Tobey Maguire, James Franco, and Kirsten Dunst should never be replaced in my humble opinion and the casting of these three was one of the best decisions I've ever seen for any comic book movie or movie at that. The same applies to Rosemary Harris and JK Simmons as Aunt May and J Jonah Jameson, respectively. However, the villains are a different story. Casting of Venom and Sand-Man are not bad, per se just not the best I thought they could have been. Yet in no way did the actors bring the production's quality down in any way.

Next, the not-so-great parts of Spider-Man 3. A major complaint made by many including myself is the film's inclusion of too many villains and storylines. So much of the film felt rushed. Sand-Man seemed a bit unnecessary and wasn't nearly as daunting as previous villains in the series. Venom at times seems cartoony and his presence in the film was fleeting. With both of these villains, there could have been much more time dedicated to devleoping their characters and such. By the final "boss fight" like sequence, it'd felt that the characters had been somewhat rushed and underdeveloped. Venom especially had so much potentially, being one of Spider-Man's most iconic and deadly villains. Again, less storylines and more emphasis on a few.

Humor. In the first and second Spider-Man films, comedic sequences were added at just the right amount, like sprinkling on an ice cream sundae. Unfortunately, Sam Raimi enjoyed dousing on the sprinkles too much with our Spider-Man 3 sundae, saturating the film with humor, an unbelievable amount of it. In fact, you could almost consider the film a comedy at times. While funny at first, the humor sequences started appearing in scenes where they really didn't need to be and completely ruined the seriousness and concentration of other scenes. Many times throughout the film I wondered, " Why? Raimi, Why?!"

Finally, Spider-Man 3 exhibited something I thought was on par if not better than any of the other films at that. The ending. With what was already laid out and done, I don't think Raimi could have given us any better of an ending than he already did. Sure Venom was killed of a but too quickly and abruptly, but he had to be for heaven's knows if there will be a Spider-Man 4, especially with the massive mixed reviews coming out from critics. The final battle sequence will go down as one of the most epic in all of film history. It is the one point in the film in which we truly see what Sand-Man and especially Venom can do. 3's ending battle sequence also featured a brilliant Spidey team up with the enlightened Harry Osborn. At last there is the movie's gorgeous, emotional ending. As Sand-Man explains what really happened to Ben Parker, we finally see Peter find closure and he heroically forgives the Sand-Man. The last image of the sandy Flint Marco is of his dissipated grained body flowing throughout New York, presumably to finally help his daughter. Lastly is the death of the troubled Harry Osbourn who at last proved his heroics  and forgiveness of his true best friend. The New York morning sun rises and Harry slowly slips into death, creating the saddest ending of any comic book movie. Shockingly, I had a few tears roll down my cheek as peace unraveled on screen. What can I say? Beautiful. Just beautiful.

Overall, at this point, I'd have to put Spider-Man 3 on just about same level as the second one however if not a little lower. The worst aspects of the movie in this film were really prominent in this time around. As to how it compares to the rest of the series and whether it really deserves a 4/5, I won't be able to make that call until I rewatch Spider-Man 3 once more. But I'll give it the benefit of the doubt.
 For everyone else, just go see it!

Spider-Man 3 : Three out of Five
- = Too many villians and storylines running, excessive humor, less-than-perfect villain casting
+ = Amazing special effects, spectacular fight scenes and sound effects, good music score, very emotional and beautiful ending.