I had quite high hopes for The Descent - Part 2 as <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000IHY9TS">The Descent (Original Unrated Cut) [Widescreen Edition</a>] was one of the most claustrophobic and terrifying films that I can remember from recent years. It continues just minutes after the first film and a rescue crew are ready to find any possible survivors from the caving expedition that went horrifically wrong. The sole survivor, Sarah, is discovered but is suffering from severe psychological trauma and is therefore unable to speak or remember what happened..She accompanies the rescue team back to the cave she has just emerged from, but the creatures that live down there are hungry once again.

After a very slow and unexciting start, the last half an hour or so is very tense and again, very claustrophobic, so it did satisfy me with regards to sticking fairly close to the original's winning formula. Unfortunately where this film failed though was that we'd been there before and seen what is down there, so the whole unknown territory and unexpected horrors that made the first film so shocking was taken away somewhat as there was no real surprises or twists that I didn't see coming. Another thing that made me knock a few stars off (like with many horror sequels) is that the characters from the previous film now appear to be experts on the monsters, even though they had only been in their presence for a few minutes previously and only a day has supposed to have passed. Juno's characters was particularly bad to the point where I actually laughed out loud as she is become some Lara Croft-like action hero overnight, removing a lot of the realism the original had. The monsters are seen a lot more too and are the main focus of the storyline, rather than it being more about surviving in the caves. The ending annoyed me a lot too as it was how it ended was completely unnecessary didn't really make much sense.

I know this sounds like more of a rant than a review, but I think I'm just disappointed at how this is has turned into a fairly generic horror film, which is a shame as the first film felt so original and set a new standard, whereas this is nothing different from any other monster movie really. It's worth a watch if you're a fan of the original but is nowhere near as good so just don't expect anything special here.