I've been a fan of Holly Hunter since first seeing her in 'Raising Arizona' many years ago, and when this series first was advertised I was a bit cautious because I am normally not a big fan of the fast paced crime drama's on television these days. The humour aspect along with the spiritual aspect is what drew me to this one, I like the backstory of the cast along with the Southwest charm of the characters and some insight to the aftermath of the Oklahoma City bombings that occasionally weave their way into each story/case.

Hunter plays Grace so full of passion, I forget she is at this moment I believe 50 years old, she is at times almost like a teenager in her actions to the point of sillyness, but as a free spirited, living life to the fullest strong woman, she makes it look easy. And as you get further into the series it is revealed perhaps why she is the way she is, it is indeed a very sad revelation when the character Father Murphy appears.

My only gripe is why they named the Angel "Earl"...I guess "Gus" was taken for the Dog. Gusman, Gussy....I love all her nicknames for her American bulldog also. To me it was too close to the whole "My Name Is Earl" thing, but after a season and into season two it seems like small potatoes anyway. Then there is Ham's fear of birds, and Randy from MNIE had the same fear in an ep didn't he...just coincidence perhaps, although Ham's was of SMALL birds, and Randy's was larger variety (Chickens, Ostrich's)...lol, it's just strange to me the similarities at this point I guess.

Anyway, it's a show that makes you think, and all the clues Earl leaves behind may or may not mean anything as you go along, but it's a good time when Rhetta (with Grace mocking and tolerating it all)really begins to examine and decipher the gifts/clues Earl brings to the table.

Great show, one of the few I will get on DVD these days. And every Monday I can't wait to watch it and tape it, and watch it every day just about till Monday comes around again. It is very adult oriented with mild nudity, and the usual cable-friendly profanity.  She is charming and for the most part unapologetic, real, and if that's your thing then you should check out an ep or two and see for yourself perhaps.