To follow up their success with The Shield, FX decided to commission another edgy, envelope pushing drama in Nip/Tuck.  Revolving around a Florida-based plastic surgery owned by Drs Sean McNamara and Christian Troy, the 13-part first season attempts to explore the professional and personal lives of these two very different men, and their long-standing friendship.

The series begins by introducing us to the two surgeons and their respective lives.  Sean is married to Julia, and has two children - Matt, a 16-year old, and his little sister Annie.  Sean and Julia's marriage is under strain from the outset, and this will be a focal arc of the inaugural season, as their lives unravel in a mire of infidelity (both physical and mental) and lies.  Swept up in this is Matt, who has various issues of his own to cope with as he approaches adulthood.  Christian, meanwhile, has no family but busies himself with notching up conquest after conquest.  It is adequately set up from the outset that these two men are flip sides of the same coin - Sean the seemingly dutiful family man, the intelligent one, the `talent' and Christian the flashy, seemingly soulless one, who has coasted by on his friend's laurels so far.

In this season, Julia and Sean will be forced to look into the dark heart of their marriage, and whether the last 16 years of their lives have been wasted on the wrong person.  Matt will deal with some very personal issues of his own as he comes to sexual maturity.  Some dark secrets from the past will rear up again for Julia, as she has to deal with the relationships between her and her husband and her and Christian.  Christian himself goes on a season long arc of self-discovery and admission as he comes to terms with a lot of the events from his youth that have made him the man he is.

So, is Nip/Tuck any good?  Yes and no.  What's the good?  Well, I can say without hesitation that the actors all do the very best with the material they're given to work with.  Especially good is Julian McMahon as Christian Troy.  What makes his performance stand out is that he is given a character that is essentially brutally unlikeable, self-centred, and almost without any redeeming features and he does some sterling work in getting an audience to identify and sympathise with Troy on even the most basic of that-shouldn't-happen-to-anyone level.  The production levels are very good - it looks fantastic - and despite many lagging episodes in the middle of the season things pick up greatly for a fine conclusion to the season.

What's the not so good?  Although the actors do their best with what they've got, the fact remains that the writers have pushed too hard and the series is left without even one really genuinely likeable or sympathetic character - without fail, the main characters are some of the most self-absorbed, destructive and unattractive people used as the focus of a drama.  Some may say that's the point - that these people who offer folks the chance to put `right' what they don't like about themselves physically are all ugly on the inside.  However, if you want to see genuinely complex and conflicted characters that frequently do the wrong thing, check out The Shield for a class in how it's done.  Most importantly, as the season came to a close, I still didn't actually care for any of the characters, and consequently none of the things that happened to them really evoke any emotional reaction.

Also, both of the major storylines that involve Matt stretch credulity to it's very limit and frustratingly, the storyline involving a girl badly injured due to Matt's actions is seemingly discarded without being properly resolved, although the repercussions of a character's actions would be devastating.  John Hensley does a good job as Matt but perhaps the reason he spends most of the season looking dazed and confused is that he knows what's coming next...

As well as this, although each episode involves a storyline about a patient, there is no real unifying arc to the middle section of the series and this lends it a feeling of listlessness and lack of direction that only amplifies the point that the series, despite it's proclamation that it is a `deep look at superficiality' really comes out at the end as a superficial look at superficiality and not half as `deep' as it thinks it is.  The lack of a strong mid-section to the series only serves to flag up the writers almost adolescent obsession with sex as a device to fill screen time, and this in turn shows up the inherent emptiness at the core of the series.

Having said all that, it IS still entertaining for the most part, and although almost instantly forgettable once the season concludes, fans of edgy and provocative drama will probably find something that grips them, even if only for a moment.  The central `romance' between Sean and Christian is probably the only positive as the season reaches its end - that these two vastly different men will never give up on each other is the only hopeful outcome in what is essentially a bleak outlook on human beings.

Overall, Nip/Tuck Season One is recommended for fans of adult drama, although perhaps best as a rental.