I really enjoyed this movie. It was unique in that it portrayed a young man-made robotic boy's, (played by Haley Joel Osment) love for a cold, insensitive, selfish woman whom he called mother. This woman scarcely even noticed him, and was only trying to fulfill some selfish desire, and once she got him reared him as some sort of pet in which she occassionally found funny and odd. Upon receiving him as a gift from her husband, she was warned that she should never used the words "I love you" to the man-made robotic boy without sincerely meaning her words. Because once the man-made robotic boy heard those words, he was forever emotionally tied to her. It appeared as though her adoption of the man-made robotic boy into her home was merely out of selfishness.  She later assumed the role as "mother" and was met with the same unconditional love that she eventually gave.  She had a son who was in a coma. At the beginning of the movie, the diagnosis for his improvement was grim.  This lead to the implementation of the man-made robotic boy. The movie never gave many specifics as to what was actually wrong with the biological child. However, as soon as he began to come out of his comatose state, the mother nearly rejected the man-made robotic child over her own.
The real child assumed his rightful place as the apple of his parent's eye, and apparently all was to be well; yet the competiveness of the man-made robotic boy was sad and heart-breaking. It was annoying to see the real boy lavished with love and security. While the other child assumed a position that was almost non-existent.
The climax of the movie was when the mother convinced the man-made boy to go with her for a ride. She drove him several miles away from the home and abandoned him in a wooded area. It was difficult to watch the struggle that existed between mother and son.  The boy kept pleading for his mother not to leave him. And eventually she jumped in her car and  sped off leaving him like a hurt, sad, and grief-stricken.  After running after the woman, who undoubtedly told him that she loved him. He was left alone with a broken-heart, and many questions as to why his mother who loved him so dearly would just leave him. His journey for the life that he once knew began when he encountered another man-made robot,( played by Jude Law). The man-made boy remembers a childhood story that mentions a blue fairy that granted the wish of a puppet who wanted to be a real boy. He believes that by finding the blue fairy that he would reunite with his mother. He felt that by finding the blue fairy his wish of having the motherly love that we all craved could eventually be satiated. 
This movie literally broke my heart. I cried because it was so moving and so real. A lot of people wanted this man-made boy to get over his emotions for his mother. They wanted him to assume his natural identity as a robotic being. The boy only wanted what he deemed as his -- a mother's love. The story was so ironic and the ending even more baffling than its beginning. It was if for several hundred years the man-made boy remained under sea, praying to a statue of a blue fairy that he would establish a relationship with his mother again. It is sad . . . The ending is beautiful, light, and magical. Anyone who has a heart would find it moving and warm.
Though this  movie to me had lots of potential, apparently several people did not agree because it performed poorly at the box office.  Nevertheless, I am not other people, I am me, and to me this movie was sentimental, sweet, and amazingly good.