despite admittedly good acting, especially by helen mirren as ayn rand,this movie does justice neither to ayn rand herself nor to the barbara branden book of the same name on which it purports to be based. it is a blatant ad hominem attack on someone whose controversial philosophy is undoubtedly perceived by the producers as threatening. furthermore, like other rand adversaries, they cannot miss the opportunity to at least imply that AR's followers (one of the closest of whom was Alan Greenspan,now chairman of the federal reserve)were like a cult.  "our relationship is nothing if it is not sexual" says AR to nathaniel branden in the movie. this line (which appears nowhere in the book) and the entire emphasis of the movie completely misdefine the real "passion of ayn rand," i.e. the hero worship of a woman for her ideal man, which in ayn rand's own life first existed with a boy name leo back in russia, somone with whom AR never had sex. this essence of AR's "passion" is made clear by barbara branden at page 98 of the book. AR's affair with barbara's husband nathaniel (entered into openly and with the consent of both spouses and the focal point of the movie) does not even begin until page 259 of the 422 page book but the preceding and succeeding in depth discussion of ayn rand's amazing journey from soviet russia to the USA to success as one of the great writers and philosophers of the 20th century is of only passing interest to the producers of this movie. sex and alleged psycho-pathology are all the producers of this movie are really interested in. i guess that is what they think will sell. the famous slapping scene when AR first confronts NB after finding out that he has been cheating not only on her but on barbara with one of his psychotherapy patients (whom the movie calls "caroline" even though her real name was patreecia), is intended to show AR as unreasonably unforgiving and vindictive. however, the producers in their zeal to do so, notably fail to show the viewer the many months of suspicion, deception and lies that preceded the ultimate revelation. during those months, as the book makes clear, AR agonized over vague "problems" in the AR/NB relationship and tried for hours on end to discuss the situation with NB to help him deal not only with their relationship but also with his relationship with barbara, which was likewise suffering at that time. yes,the book describes her slapping NB furiously and thereafter acting very vindictively against him, and a rational assessment of her actions might indeed find her to have over-reacted. but the  movie does a disservice to any such rational assessment by completely (and i would say deliberately) ignoring the many months during which AR invested so much of her psyche trying to help someone whom she mistakenly trusted with a "problem" about which he was being untruthful and deceptive. nor does the movie bother to emphasize the supreme importance of "integrity" to AR or nathan's place in her life as a "hero" who embodied (she thought) her values. it simply makes no real effort to examine, one might say,  the righteousness of her indignation. the movie has a line where barbara asks AR to show "compassion" to nathan because "that's what people do." this line appears nowhere in the book and is just another example of the producers putting their own anti-rand agenda ahead of the very source material on which the movie has purportedly been based. although i suppose it has nothing to do with the above-described rand-bashing agenda, their contempt for the truth even goes so far as to make up a character named richard for barbara to become involved with!!!! i could cite other examples ad infinitum but will simply end by suggesting that rather than waste time watching this garbage, one might better spend one's time reading the much more even-handed and respectful barbara branden book itself or, even better, watching the excellent documentary on vhs entitled "ayn rand: a sense of life," which received an oscar nomination in the early 80's. actually, one should not bother with any of the above prior to reading rand herself: atlas shrugged, the fountainhead, we the living, anthem, etc etc etc, all of which i strongly recommend. she was a great woman, the obvious opinion of the producers of this movie to the contrary notwithstanding.