In the style of my favorite DVD site, IGN.com, I'm going to review this movie based on four areas: The movie, the video, the audio, and the extras.
THE MOVIE  Wow. Tom Cruise is at his energetic best.  Ethan Hunt is a young and very skilled IMF operative. After all, his mentor  is one of the best: Jim Phelps. A man named Golitsyn has gotten himself  into a position to steal the CIA's NOC list, and has the intent of selling  it on the black market. Phelps, along with Ethan Hunt and the other four  members of his IMF team are given the mission to catch Golitsyn in the act  of  stealing the NOC list, apprehend him, thereby retrieving the stolen  list. Everything goes wrong. All members of the team, except Ethan are  killed, including Phelps. The operation was a molehunt. Hunt is supected of  the killings, and accused of imbessling money from the CIA. This is just  the surface. There are many many more major-players, all part of a huge and  complex conspiracy.  Brian De Palma did an amazing job. This film is  visual feast, for half the story is told through camera movement. The  film's plot is extremely complicated. I have watched the film several  times, and everytime I do, I notice something new and a another little  detail that makes more sense of the plot. This film is one that has to be  watched closely. Many of the plot points and nuances are subtle and require  you to pay close attention. An Action/suspense film that has brains. Who  would have thought?
THE VIDEO
  Stunning. A little dirty, but that is  expected. After all, an original theatrical print was used for the  transfer. Slight graniness, but you won't really notice unless finding  flaws is the reason you are watching the movie. You also have the choice of  watching the film in Pan-and-Scan or Widescreen.
THE AUDIO
  Pretty  good if you have the right equipment.I usually set the disc at Dolby 5.1  sound. That option is great if you have good speakers. For those of you  that hve just your Televisions, keep the disc on 2 channel. You also have  the option to watch it in French.
THE EXTRA
  The heading should be  THE EXTRAS. However, there is only one extra. All you get is the theatrical  trailer. That isn't bad, but is definately not enough. Sorry, but scene  selection, interactive menus, captions, and subtitles do not count as  special features, especially to today's DVD's standards. (Have you seen the  Fight Club DVD?)
  Not a bad package when you consider the quality of  the sound and video, but special features are very important. Without them,  you might as well go and and buy the VHS version, and save yourself a  couple of bucks.