After nearly 20 years of getting their butts kicked in the animated feature department
by Bruce Timm and the boys at DC Comics, Marvel has FINALLY produced an animated show
they can be proud of. "The Avengers" doesn't exactly break too much new ground, nonetheless
it is an excellent show and is a worthy counterpart to the succesful DC franchise, Justice League:

Pros: ART/ANIMATION: Animation is pretty good, though not exactly avant garde. The artwork and
  character designs are top notch. Really loved the looks they gave
  Wasp, Black Widow and Tony Stark/Iron Man. Combat sequences, especially in the last
  two episodes of the DVD, are some of the best I've seen in an animated feature to date.

  STORIES: The plot-lines are complex and engaging. The pacing is fast, the dialogue is sharp and pretty
  clever. Fair amount of humor throw in, particularly by the characters of Wasp, Iron Man and Hawkeye, although
  I would have loved to seen a little more (there isn't quite the equivalent of Justice League's Flash
  on this show).

CONS: (SOME OF) THE CHARACTERS: While characters like Iron Man, Wasp and Hawkeye are interesting and nicely fleshed out,
  there are a few disapointments: Thor, for example, came across as very bland. The "Thor" of the Norse Myths
  was actually a pretty fierce and wild character. I would have preferred seeing a more chaotic and untamed
  Thor rather than the square-jawed boy-scout we're presented with in this series. Captain America was also suprisingly
  dull. I was kind of hoping he would be spouting off a lot of cheesy, patronizing and yet humorous cliches
  ("Stay in school, son!" "I cannot stress the importance of knowing your multiplication tables!"). But no such luck :(

  LACK OF A FEMALE PRESENCE: Wasp is the only female representative on the Avengers squad, and while she is quite a
  quirky and engaging character, the series would be better served with more females both among the heroes and the villains.
  Black Widow looks like a fun character, but she only make sporadic appearances. Apparently Marvel intends to address
  this in Season Two with the introduction of Ms Marvel. Hopefully she is a strong and memorable character.

All in all, though, I really enjoyed this series. I would enthusiastically recommend it. There is a also a small preview of Season Two
included on the disc (and a first look at new characters Ms Marvel (swoon!) and Vision)), and it looks very promising.
I can't wait!