Everything about this movie was uncomfortably, and at times embarrassingly, contrived. The violence is jarring - which isn't necessarily a pejorative description. But the extra few frames of gushing blood and death throe convulsions were beyond unecessary, they were startlingly gratuitous and clumsy. The violence in better movies like Pulp Fiction, while disturbing, seemed appropriate for the brutish, nasty world in which the story takes place. However, watching the Viggo Mortensen character caving in the nasal passage of a would-be captor with a 3rd and 4th blow to the face just made me feel like I was watching the snuff-film fantasies of a disturbed teenager.

That said, I'm not the type to dismiss a movie for a little excessive violence. The makers of this movie, however, commit much bigger cinematic sins.

In my mind, suspension of disbelief is a key element to the enjoyment of a movie. And there are few things that more quickly destroy that sense of involvement than obvious product placements. The most blatent example of many in this movie was in a scene of what was supposed to be of high drama - Viggo Mortensen is racing home to protect his family from dark-suited bad guys he thinks are after his family. He warns his wife, Maria Bello, with a near-panicked call before he races home on foot. Barely suppressing hysteria she grabs the biggest shot gun this side of Texas from the master closet, scrambles down the stairs and tremulously points the gun at the front door while sobbing in fear. Moments later the door bursts open....its Viggo coming to save the day. Maria barely restrains herself from blowing him in half. Screaming, crying, hugs.....then the  camera pans to their teenage son just a few feet away in the kitchen. Apparently oblivious to the commotion of his mom preparing for an all out siege of the Visigoths - he glances over from his breakfast holding a box of....you guessed it, Post Honey Bunches of Oats, in perfect camera frame (it was about the 3rd time in the movie it was a featured element of a shot). And to think, Honey Bunches of Oats was my favorite until that movie ruined it forever for me....