This review was first posted at my blog: [...]

Today I finally managed (after struggling for months to find the motivation) to finish It (by Edmond, Oklahoma pastor Craig Groeschel).

I was put off from the very beginning by this book, not so much because of the content as by its presentation. I actually held some respect for Craig Groeschel before reading this book. But the constant juvenile humor and bordering-on-blasphemous wisecracks did not sit very well with me. I will spare you the examples. It is really pathetic, actually. Grow up, Craig.

In regards to the content, there are a few (I emphasize few) things to be learned, but not much that you wouldn't get from any number of books on leadership (Christian or secular). In fact, Groeschel quotes from these "leadership gems" incessantly.

One of my biggest frustrations with It is the author's constant effort to insist that it must be given to a church by the Holy Spirit, when it is painfully obvious that any number of organizations in the world (Christian, secular, Islamic, Buddhist, atheist, heretical) have the emotions, ethos, and passion described in as it in It. In fact, Groeschel even mentions at least one well-known heretic pastor (one who openly denies the God revealed in Scripture) in his frequent listings of churches or ministries that have it. In the end, his definition of it has very little to do with true, biblical Christianity or the real convicting work of the Holy Spirit in the hearts of men.

In spite of all the problems, I do want to share one short section where I found some helpful questions. In Chapter 9, which talks about "wanting others to have it" (whatever it is), Groeschel lists three things that we should ask ourselves to see if we truly care about the unsaved:

- When is the last time you've had a lost person in your home?
- How many meaningful conversations did you have with non-Christians this week?
- Who are the nonbelievers you prayed for today?

I hope the above questions do stir your heart to share the Gospel more with the lost. However, even these questions had to be ripped out of context to be of any use. Much of that chapter is full of bad (read: unbiblical) advice.

I also pray that the Gospel you share with non-Christians has more content than the one found in this book. Besides a few passing references to "our need for a savior" (what's with not capitalizing Savior?!), there is little encouragement by the author for his readers to make sure all their striving to find it is based upon the only true Gospel of Jesus Christ found in the Bible. An unregenerated person could easily read this book and remain unconverted. That is disappointing and worrisome to say the least.

Pass on It unless you want to feel as frustrated as I do right now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

You might be wondering why I even read this book in the first place. Well, I initially bought It to try and get a glimpse of where Craig Groeschel stands theologically and biblically. Craig Groeschel is immensely popular in certain Christian circles, especially in Oklahoma where I am from (and where he founded Lifechurch.tv). Pastor Groeschel even preached my aunt's (Patricia Ann Nelson) funeral back in the summer of 1994 (when he was on staff at the church that once had it but is now "dead" - see the first page of his book). So its kind of personal for me. I wish he was more grounded in the Bible and I wish I could recommend his church and ministry unequivocally. Unfortunately, this book didn't relieve any of my worries. On the contrary, It actually added quite a few more to my list.