REVIEW "WHERE THE TRUTH LIES"

11/4/2005

SPOILERS AND LONG

When the announcement of the role for Where the Truth Lies was first announced my first reaction was, Atom Egoyan, big name director, but had I seen his work?  The answer was no.  I did two things immediately.  Ordered the book on line and read it and went in search of and viewed previous Egoyan films.  I was impressed by both and felt this was just the kind of role that Colin Firth needed to break out of the rom/com rut he was in and better yet would put him on the mainstream radar in Hollywood.  Realizing that most recent movie viewers only knew him from What a Girl Wants, Love Actually, and Bridget Jones, I knew if he pulled this role off there would be many pleasantly surprised critics and viewers.  Of course, he did just that, in a brilliant performance as Vince Collins opposite the equally brilliant Kevin Bacon and a surprisingly very good performance from Alison Lohman.  I never had any doubts he would nail this role, but was pleased to read and hear critics and viewers remarks, respectively, about how amazing Colin Firth did in this role.

After several viewings, I have analyzed and digested the movie enough to write my own impressions for your considerations.  The first viewing was to get the feel of the film and to discover the reason for the NC-17 rating.  The next viewing became more critical and I noticed small things both good and bad about the film and took note of each.  At the last viewing, I just sat back and watched a movie that I had really grown to love, a wonderfully acted murder mystery which is really what it is, sex controversy and all.

Inevitability, a discussion of the sex scenes must be part of any detailed review. First let me expel some myths about "all" the sex in this film.  One, there was one full frontal scene of one woman standing in a room.  Two, there was NO frontal nudity by any of the male characters, not even close.  Some of the sex scenes were uncomfortable and seemed in excess.  On analysis, however, I was always keeping in mind quotes by Egoyan about the mood he was trying to set in his viewers of an uncomfortable feeling with the excesses of the lifestyles of the famous in Hollywood in the 1950's.  I must admit he was brilliantly successful with me.  Also, keeping in mind the decision of the MPAA board to label this film with the dreaded NC-17 rating and the implications this would have on the range of viewers the film would actually reach, I had to conclude that any further cutting of the sex scenes could not have been made without harming the audience feeling intent or the storyline of the film.  In my view, some academy award nominations, not to mention much larger box office receipts should have been the reward for a brilliant adult movie.  I fear that is remote with the NC-17 rating.  There were two oral sex scenes, only one offensive because of the after view of one of the participants.  If you just cut that one shot the whole film would have been better and that scene does nothing for the film.  The other oral sex scene does not have it and it doesn't hurt that scene at all.  So that would be one that could have gone.  The opening sex scene with Kevin and Denise, their publicist, was actually comical, as his thrusting was so large, big (I don't know what word to use to describe this, but) you could actually see there was no contact between them.  This could have easily been done under sheets and then thrusting, which was the MPAA issue with this film, would have been a moot point.  All the other sex scenes were very tastefully done and the often written about final scene, the m&eacute;nage-a-trois was perfect and not offensive at all.  This was the most dramatic scene in the movie, invoking the most emotion from the audience.  No pun intended but it truly was a powerful climax to the film.  According to Egoyan the number of thrusts in this one scene got them the NC-17 rating.  The reason for that was a voiceover by Bacon that took some time and the scene required a longer love scene to cover that, but it was very subdued love making with very little nudity, a side view of Rachel Blanchard's breast, no frontal nudity at all in this scene.  It was not a very long scene, it was succinct and to the point, Colin arrives, the m&eacute;nage-a-trois takes all of a few seconds and it is over.  This scene is probably the least offensive of all the scenes, but the most emotional because of the implications on the partnership of Collins and Morris.  By now, the viewer has bought into the friendship and this hurts not only Vince and Lanny, but the viewer who cares about them.

The only real violence is when Vince beats the heck out of a heckler.  By the time this scene comes up, the viewer is wishing they could get in a few licks themselves.  This guy is way out of line and makes the most offensive remark in the whole movie and deserves just what he gets.  The Vince and Lanny Show is a nightclub act.  Vince is the gentleman and Lanny is the crude one.  If you don't want to hear his crude remarks you shouldn't go to their shows.  Joe, the heckler, goes beyond the pale, and gets what he deserves.  Remember, this is the 50's, people aren't sue happy; if someone is insulting you fight it out like men.  It may not fit in today's society, but this movie is supposed to take you back to another time.  That was how it was in the 50's.  The loyalty is strongly developed between these two guys, which sets you up at the end to the total devastation of the act which finally breaks them up.  Both men are injured for life because there was such a strong bond between them.  Vince's reaction while over-the-top due to use of bennies is due to that loyalty to his partner.

The drug use is excessive also.  But remember in the 70's, it was excessive everywhere and in the 50's it was excessive among the rich and famous.  That understanding is essential to the story no matter how uncomfortable that fact is to the viewer.

I am still confused as to those who can not follow the flashbacks.  Each is preceded by a statement leading in to it.  Each flashback is used to tell a specific piece of the puzzle.  The clothing, look of both men and the fact that they are together doing there act or in their hotel suite tells you it is the 50's, if they are older, alone, with a grown up Alison Lohman, and with long graying hair, it is the 70's.  I found it very easy to follow.  They show you three editions of the last scene with Rachel Blanchard, first Lanny's untrue version, then the true version as Lanny and Vince know it, and lastly, the real version which Alison's character, Karen, uncovers.  The last version shows you the pertinent part which uncovers the twist to the mystery which has been covered up for the last 20 years.

Alison Lohman starts off a bit naïve, writing about two heroes from her childhood, but Egoyan has her grow up and mature before our eyes as she delves into the lives of these men and uncovers "where the truth lies."

 The genuine charisma on stage between Firth and Bacon made their comedy team believable and made one wish for more of their show to be included in the film.  Long shots of the duo walking through clubs, hotel lobbies, and among throngs of fans built a view of the persona which goes along with the fame of a team such as Martin and Lewis from the 50's and added to the believability of their act and their relationship.  This believability affects the viewers reactions to the end scenes when it all comes crashing down.  All of this is brilliantly done by Mr. Egoyan.

It is my belief that if the MPAA board woul have given this movie the deserved R rating, Egoyan, Bacon, and Firth would have been rewarded with due consideration by awards committees for the upcoming season.  In addition, it would have substantially added to their bank accounts, as it is truly is a beautifully shot, wonderfully scored film with truly superb performances by the lead actors.  Well worth my time and money.