Please don't read any spoilers for this film -- the way it unfolds, it's like a mystery and you slowly get the picture of what happened.  It's a story about true, real-life evil in the world. After watching this movie, I was so shaken up I couldn't get up off the couch to turn it off and sat through the entire credits...I was just numb.

I consider this a horror movie, but there is no gore and no demons or supernatural monsters.  Just evil manifesting itself through the years...showing signs it's developing...and then finally erupting.

I can't remember the last movie that was so thought-provoking.  Tilda Swinton should have won all the acting awards for this one -- and the young boy who plays her son (not the teenager, but the younger version of him), was phenomenal.  If you remember The Omen and how creepy that kid playing Damien was in the original 1970s version...this boy is even more creepy. You just know something is wrong with him, and I found myself almost screaming at the TV for someone to see the signs and stop him before something awful happened.

I've always wondered what happens to the parents of evil people after they've been caught -- what are their lives like in the aftermath? The newspapers never tell you that.  This movie sheds some light on it, and it's truly a new circle of Hell.

I highly recommend that you do not watch this movie if you need to wake up early and go to work in the morning. The movie will leave you numb, horrified, and maybe a little depressed. It is not a fun date night movie. The kind of horror this is is not the Scream or Friday the 13th variety...it is somber, sober, and plays out slowly...building to the horrible conclusion you know is coming.  It's the kind of movie that you either watch alone or with someone who you know you can have a good discussion with when it's over.  It is not a movie to watch with a bunch of friends at a party.

I bet I won't be able to watch this again for another 10 years. I also won't be able to ever read anything about any sort of tragedy without thinking of this movie...and what happens to the families of the people who caused the tragedy.

Don't be afraid of blood and gore because there is none -- but please be cautioned that this is seriously deep emotional stuff and the depiction of growing evil in this movie is unsettling, terrifying, and gut-wrenching.