In my opinion, the Batman series just goes downhill every movie. BATMAN was just too good. BATMAN RETURNS was excellent, but not was good as the first. BATMAN FOREVER got worse than the second. And BATMAN & ROBIN was just the worst out of them all. But sticking with Batman Returns, it was an awesome movie. 
It still was directed by Tim Burton which was why Batman Returns was the last really good Batman movie. He stuck with the gothic, dark look and kept Michael Keaton as the Dark Knight, as it should have continued with. The villains in this movie are The Penguin (played great by Danny DeVito), The Catwoman (played acceptionaly well by Michelle Pheifer) and Max Shreck (played by Christopher Walken). Now Max Shreck was definatly not one of the best aspects of the movie but I disagree with some people saying that the movie could have done without him. It is hard to explain but Max Shreck did complete a big gap in the movie. 
The plot was fairly simple, more complicated than the first, but still played simple. The Penguin wants to become a citizen of Gotham City with the help of Max Shreck. He does this out of the Penguin's black mail threat to expose to the world that Max's power plant produces toxic waste and that he killed his partner. So whle he is becoming a citizen, Max brings on the idea of The Penguin running for mayor. The plot gets simple from there, the Penguin wins over the people but on the inside, he is still evil and is planning a crime to slaughter the first born of every family because he was the first born and because he looked different, his parents abandoned him. 
And while this is all happeneing, Selena Kyle (Catwoman) is getting revenge against Max for killing her when she found out about the evil plans of Max's new power plant. But just like a cat, Selena has 9 lives. So she comes back to life and joins forces with The Penguin to kill Batman while still planning revenge on Max. 
So The movie turns into this huge triangle of revenge. The Penguin wants to kill the first born children, Catwoman wants to kill Max, and Max wants to keep everyone from knowing about his evil secrets. And all three of them want to [terminate] Batman. This movie is definatly the second best in the BATMAN series. A great and worthy buy.
"Batman Returns" runs for about 2 hours. It is rated PG-13 for some scenes of strong violence and some language