This is one of the most amazing period dramas I have ever seen. This film, supperbly acted by an all star cast, uses Doug Wrights brillantly play to create a movie unlike any mainstream America has ever seen. This play has all the makings or a period drama, but the issues that it discusses and the candor with which characters address it is is very modern, and very much the style of Sades writting. Wright has written a play that is extremly similar to one of Sade's own works of fiction. Though many may regard the subject as crude, this movie is intillectual and thought provoking. It is brought to life by one of the most amazing casts I have seen in a long time. Kate Winselt is superb as a virginal laundress who works in wards of the criminally insane. Her innnonce and curiosity is something a modern audience is easily able to identify with. Joaquin (sorry for spelling) Phoniex is amazing in this film as the idealistic priest who runs the asylum. I never realized his talent until seeing this film. The sexual tension between him and Kate Winslets character is incredibly realistic, and they have a kind of chemistry that is rarely seen on the screen. Geoffery Rush, the Marquis himself, is amazing in this film. The way he is able to capture the many facets of this character is incredible. Most films featuring the Marquis, portray him as a dangerous, lewd man (usually the bad guy). This film, with the help of Rush's amazing acting, is able to portray Sade as a man whom the audience agrees with, and almost identifies with. For once the Marquis is a victim. Micheal Caine is, of course, excellent as the sadistic Doctor. All of the supporting actors do an amazing job to complete this film. This film was a brave gesture, putting forth ideas that are not often addressed in commercial movies. It is one of the best films I have seen and i stronly reccomend it to anyone who is intrested in french history (particularly revolution), period dramas, Sade, insane asylums or just an intresting and throught provokinng flim.