Sure, there's a lot wrong with Peter Kosminky's 1992 take on the Emily Bronte classic. For starters, Binoche and Fiennes are both too old for their teenage parts in the first half of the film, and then Fiennes and Janet McTeer(as longtime and long suffering Earnshaw servant Nelly Dean) don't age nearly enough in the second. Even more of a problem is the stunt casting of Binoche - her occasional slight French accent is a trifle inexelicable here, as others have noted - as both Cathy and her honey blonde daughter, Catherine Linton, neither of whom ever left Yorkshire. The script makes some wacky changes, also - instead of Cathy and Heathcliff spying on a lavish ball at the Linton's, they watch Edgar and Isabella play a game of indoor badminton. (O-kaaaaaay....Linton, badminton...well, it sort of rhymes...)

Instead of focusing on the minuses, I prefer to admire this adaptation's stong points. Unlike the mushy tho' oddly revered 1939 version (and the 1970 one with Timothy Dalton), it tells the entire story, which despite everyone's fond memories, isn't a romance so much as it is a revenge tale and one of the first complex psychological portaits of an abused boy becoming a brutal, abusive man. To that end, Ralph Fiennes is a note-perfect Heathcliff; the scene of his humilitation of Isabella is right on the money. (One feels that he'd eat Olivier's wimp of a Heathcliff for tea, after making him clean the stables three times over.) Despite her miscasting, Binoche makes a lovely, haunting Cathy in the first half and a sympathetic pawn in Heathcliff's twisted plan in the second. Add to that fine support from McTeer, Simon Shepherd (Edgar Linton), Sophie Ward (Isabella) and a young Jeremy Northam (Hindley); heck, even Sinead O'Connor, with her eyes as wide as saucers, catches the right Bronte groove as narrator Emily herself. (What would O'Connor have been like as Cathy, one wonders...) Again, unlike the 1939 flick, Kosminsky sets the story in its proper time period (1770s - very early 1800s), with superb costumes and production values. Authentic Yorkshire moors and other locations add to the tragedy's flavour. The frosting on the cake, though, is Ryuichi Sakamoto's shattering score, which conveys the story's haunting wildness in one swelling phrase almost better than the entire film does itself. (Pity that - like the movie - it was never released in the U.S.; there's a suite arrangement on Sakamoto's CINEMAGE album that merely leaves you wanting the whole score, available only as a rare and pricey import from Japan.) Perhaps a DVD edition, if ever produced, will contain the score, as well as scenes chopped from the truncated print run on Bravo. Until a better version comes along (the 1998 MASTERPIECE THEATRE one with Orla Brady and Robert Cavanah had a few great gothic bits - Heathcliff digging up and sobbingly embracing Cathy's bones really hit the core of the tale), the Fiennes and Binoche take will remain my favourite visit to WUTHERING HEIGHTS. It's a bumpy ride all right, but well worth the trip.