Granted, I went into this movie as a teenage, male, Britney fan. No, I do not just like her for her looks and body. I enjoy her music, and I like how she just stays true to herself. I see many people commenting about her acting. Please, people, this was not like Glitter (Which I saw as a Mariah fan, but did not enjoy it at all, and the way her face twitches at the camera annoyed me). I would at least place this movie next to Coyote Ugly. Britney was definitely just as good as Piper Perabo was in that. I also see some older women commenting on what Britney "promotes" in this movie. Hmmm..I find this funny. It's a movie, ladies. It's called "acting." Wow! What an insight! Britney is not promoting a single thing. Welcome to the wonderful world of make-believe. Also, there are many movies that promote MANY worse subject matters. Did you also realize that the movie is rated PG-13? I seriously DO NOT think there is anything in this movie that a 13 year old shouldn't already know about. If they don't, then they are way too sheltered, and life will hit them hard eventually. Another thing about her acting comments...let's not forget the rave reviews Britney got after both of her Saturday Night Live performances. Even Rolling Stone magazine, which usually despises pop and it's creators, loved her on SNL. They called it Britney Night Live. She is an all-around entertainer. You don't have to like her, but it's kind of silly to hate her. The movie is somewhat predictable, but it's just supposed to be light-hearted, and targeted at girls in their mid teens. Britney also was in Broadway plays at the age of 10 and 11, after studying acting, dance, and singing at a NYC Performing Arts School. Let's get real here...you don't make it on Broadway at that age if you are horrible. Ok, so she's not Jodie Foster or Julia Roberts, but wouldn't the movie be rather silly if one of those actresses played Lucy? (I must laugh) So many people talk about her using it as a commercial for her singing as well. I seem to recall that every singer turned big-screen actress has done this as well. Mandy Moore, who I also think is decent, sang in The Princess Diaries and A Walk To Remember. Even as a fan I would only give this movie 3 stars, just for being more realistic when it was humorous and sad than most teen movies. I give the extra star just for enjoying Britney's work, and her bravery in trying this out, knowing many people would throw their opinions out assuming Britney jumped up and yelled, "LOOK AT ME! I'M THE NEXT JULIA ROBERTS!" She never once said that, folks. No, she's not perfect. Can acting EVER be totally perfect, though? It's always going to be fake. Are operas or musicals displaying how people really are when being dramatic? No, but those are also forms of acting. Be that as it may, I think she was just as good as many of the other teen actors. I think it's good that she's not perfect. She can give other girls hope that they can make it as well. She's just living many teen girls' American dream, and I just enjoy the way she makes many people's faces light up while watching her do that. Even my mom loves watching her. If you do one thing before seeing this movie, just keep an open mind, and give a human-being a break.