<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004N66XZ8">Fiddler on the Roof (Single-Disc Blu-ray/DVD Combo)</a> Just to be perfectly clear, I want to state right from the beginning that I am reviewing the 40th. Anniversary Edition of Fiddler on the Roof Blu-Ray/DVD Combo! This set comes with two Discs. One is the movie in Blu-Ray with loads of extras & the second is the movie on DVD. As I have only viewed the Blu-Ray Disc, this review pertains to the beautifully remastered Blu-Ray version of the movie only. That said, any problems I have experienced in the past regarding the quality, or should I say lack thereof, on Blu-Ray Discs in general, have been easily rectified by updating the Firmware on my Blu-Ray player. Most Blu-Ray Disc manufacturers recommend this as do I. I am pleased to report that I had no such problems with this Blu-Ray Disc. Fiddler on the Roof is one of my all time favorite classics! In this version, the extremely talented actor, Topol, is still Papa! I absolutely cannot get over how great this film looks in Blu-Ray! I must admit that I was skeptical before viewing the film! However, I was very pleasantly surprised! The Blu-Ray looks beautiful & sounds great as well. I certainly wish I could say the same for several of my old favorites remastered in Blu-Ray. Would they all turned out as well as Fiddler on the Roof! Regarding the inquiry about this version including "Italian Audio 5.1", I only see the following printed on the box for the Blu-Ray: "Audio: English 7.1 DTS-HD Master Audio, Spanish Mono & French 5.1 DTS". For the DVD: "Audio English 5.1 Dolby Surround, English Mono, Spanish Mono & French Mono". I hope this information is helpful. This version is in Widescreen with an Aspect Ratio: 1.85:1. I must confess that I haven't the means which will enable me to watch one version of a movie directly next to another version simultaneously. However, I was unable to detect any discernible differences between my old VHS version of Fiddler on the Roof compared to this Blu-Ray version. Therefore, if there are any differences, I consider them to be negligible. As is always the case with Amazon.com, The 40th. Anniversary Edition of Fiddler on the Roof arrived very well packaged, with lightening fast speed & was very reasonably priced at the time of purchase. As it so happens, we do not have a Costco in our local area. It would cost much more than $2.00 in gas to drive to the nearest one. I highly recommend this Blu-Ray Version of Fiddler on the Roof! You will not be disappointed.