The Pacifier is a really great movie you should go watch it. It's really good entertainment, for the kids and everybody. It's about this Navy Seal guy named Shane Wolf who has to take care of these kids after there dad dies. He has been assigned a mission to watch over these kids while their mom is away. While he's taking care of them he teaches them a lot of things. He's always keeping an eye on them at school, home and everywhere. He teaches the oldest daughter how to drive, and teaches the oldest son how to dance and fight. He teaches the youngest daughter to not be afraid and he teaches the baby to be potty-trained. I better be quiet before I ruin the movie for you. I think this is the best Disney movie ever. A lot of people I know love this movie and so will you.

 The reason I think you should watch this movie is because it is the best Disney movie ever. There is a really hot guy on the movie, some girls will like it because him. It's really good entertainment for the whole entire family to watch.

 It sounds like how we live because the kids go to school and so do we. And they have babysitters just like we do.  The kids also have really big attitudes, just like us. Shane Wolf teaches them stuff just like our parents teach us stuff.

 It's really good because it's a family movie. It makes you want to have fun. It's like real life. It's really hilarious. It's totally cool. This movie makes you come together as a family to watch it.

 Kids, parents, adults, teens, everybody will love this movie. It has a lot of comedy and drama. It has a lot of attitude. One part is really sad; it makes you want to cry because it's so sad about when and how their dad died.

 What I am saying is that everybody will love this movie. I really encourage you to watch this movie. It's a rock on movie! You'll wish you were in this movie having just as much fun as them!

 You'll really love this movie so try watching this movie. It's only an hour and thirty minutes long and its rated PG. It's a really good movie, so please check out The Pacifier.

 I really think people will like this movie because you'll get to spend time with your family and watch a really good movie. You really need to check this movie out. It's really hilarious. That's why I really encourage you to watch this movie.