Stalingrad is an important war film from a number of perspectives. It very accurately portrays the typical Landser of the time. Normal men, struggling for a cause they believed in. It understandably had to limit the portrayal of the battle to certain characters and their actions to get across its message.  Survivors of Stalingrad considered "der Furher" as their "gravedigger."  This movie puts across a point - and it isn't heavy handed.  The human element is the only criterion in war that matters.  The disillusionment potrayed by the characters is totally in keeping with reality.  There are excellent action sequences.  The lack of German armor in the movie is understandable, because there aren't that many Panzers extant.  If some of the anti-Nazi messages seem heavy handed, you must remember, that these senitments were, in reality, much harsher in the minds of the 6th Army Germans than what was portrayed in the film, and they were portaryed as skillfully as possible within the time limits a two hour film is constrained to work under.  The harsh reality of combat is shown - years before "Saving Private Ryan," with clarity and skill. If the musical score seem "weak," as some viewers suppose - you must remember, it intentionally undermines the "glory" of the conquest these soldiers were to undertake.  It is an intensely human drama, and it is nice to see characters portrayed who actually tried to do something about their hopeless situation.  The end alone spells it all out - two soldiers, in the depths of the frozen waste, their only remaining humanity their love for one another, as the cold consumes them and kills them.  If you want a movie that shows great slaughter and a romanticized, "Hollywood" version of war, go elewhere.  IF you want a movie that shows the ambivalence of war, the soul-destroying circumstances faced by the German Landser, you'd be hard-pressed to find a better film.  Definitely worth a war film afficiando's collectiion, definitely historically accurate, and a fine addition to any fan of war history.  After several viewings, I finally "got it," and I would recommend it! +