This movie is loosely based on the life of the novelist marquis de sade, a man whose name inspired the word "sadism." that reveals something about sade's character right away. so DO NOT expect a lighthearted flick about a randy old man! this movie is way dark and graphic. it's rated R for a reason so if you can't handle nudity, violence, and really depressing sex, turn away and don't say i didn't warn you.
THE PLOT
marquis de sade (rush), a french author of graphically perverse S&M novels, is imprisioned inside Charenton, an asylum for the mentally ill. charenton is run by the happy, constantly grinning abbe de coulmiers (phoenix), who thinks that it's good for sade to write his smut to cleanse his mind, as long as they don't get published. but he doesn't know that the raunchy, yet innocent chambermaid (winslet) is smuggling the marquis's chapters out of the asylum with the laundry. the books quickly wind their way to the publishers, where they become huge bestsellers. even napoleon gets hold of the latest copy and becomes thoroughly disgusted with the content. a doctor, royers-collard (caine) is sent to charenton to cure the marquis of his "madness." r.c. is known for employing torture techniques to cure his patients, such as dunking them in brackish water, or putting them in isolation. with r.c.'s coming, the (relatively) jolly days of the marquis at the asylum are over. the movie, which started out darkly funny and kinky, filled with innuendo and bantering, now just becomes dark. madeleine the chambermaid is discovered to be smuggling the manuscripts, and sade's ink and quills are taken away. sade begins to grow desperate, and is eventually forced to use his own blood and excrement to write. coulmiers is torn between his feelings for the church, his unusual friendship with sade, the repulsion he has for sade's writing, and his love (?) or lust for madeleine. then r.c's wife gets a hold of sade's writing, which fuels her on to elope with her lover. r.c's anger with sade is now personal and he makes SURE sade cannot write. but sade will not give up. because he has been deprived of all writing utensils, madeleine thinks of a genius way for him to "write" another novel. but the power of sade's words turn the "writing session" into a horrid fiasco... in fact, the climax of the movie is SO depressing and shocking (the scene with the bleeding crucifix) that the weird and predictable ending is actually liberating and satisfying. let me just say no one came out of this movie smiling.
THE ACTORS
Geoffrey Rush: whoever chose russell crowe over him at the oscars needs to be smacked in the head. rush doesn't need to swing big swords around to prove his worth. all he needs is a quill... i can go on and on about his acting and his grace, even when he's been stripped of everything (and i mean EVERYTHING) he has. he isn't playing marquis de sade. he IS marquis de sade.
joaquin phoenix: whoa. emotional overload there. all those conflicting emotions that bombard him can be seen in those green eyes. his emotional spiral downward is WAY intense, and yet 100% believable. the scenes with madeleine made my stomach flip so many times. (plus, he's hot.)
kate winslet: after watching this movie, i've become a fan of hers. she portrays madeleine as a girl with many facets. madeleine isn't just a "virginal chambermaid." she keeps a flirty but platonic relationship with sade, she doesn't sleep around yet she devours sade's smut. she has a real affection for coulmiers, and yet she wants to run away with the horseman. kate makes madeleine a character who possesses all the virtues and vices of a real girl, not a 1 dimensional side character.
michael caine: royers-collard was so evil. so evil. i wanted to punch the tv at the end of the movie. then i wanted to hug michael caine for doing such a good job. the funny man in miss congeniality he ain't.
THE DVD
eh. the special features were so-so. the regular stuff. the commentary, the featurette, the trailers. but you're buying this movie for the MOVIE not the special features, i'm assuming.
OVERALL
five stars!! this is a brilliant piece of moviemaking. good dialogue, good actors, good plot. best movie i've seen in a long time. if you want a dark, sharply humourous, shocking, deep, (a little) romantic, sexy, and emotional gut wrenching ride, then watch quills. this movie is not a biography. it's very fictionalized. so please remember, "this is a work of FICTION. not a moral treatise."