Regenerated in many other movies, the legendary `shower scene' will always be carved in the mind of every horror flick fan as the best horror film in the vault. Hitchcock knew what he was doing when he created the film "Psycho". Hitchcock brings an eerie, yet attractive feeling to every aspect of the stimulating film. The audience, surprised at every twist and turn of the film, was kept in suspense. The suspense is surprising for such a seemingly simple plot. The plot, acting and suspense are the best aspects of this film.
 Janet Leigh's character, Marian Crane, stole 40,000 dollars from the Phoenix real-estate office she worked in. Marian took her newly embezzled money to California to surprise her boyfriend. They would use the money for their new life together. On the way to California, she got caught in a storm. Pulling over, Marian found an old, vacant motel. Norman Bates, Anthony Perkins's character, manages this motel for his overbearing mother. Soon after Marian came up missing, Norman became skittish as police began to investigate her disappearance. His character developed throughout the rest of the film, as the truth became closer and closer.
 The acting in this film is original because it pulled the audience in with its reality. Anthony Perkins's performance was unbelievable. His mood swings and quietness led the audience wondering what was going on in his mind. His eyes shift and are uneasy at every question. Hitchcock made the audience feel as though they were sitting there with Norman and Marian having a conversation. In the later version of the film the acting did not make the audience feel as though they were in it.
 In the 1998 version of the film, the actors and actresses spelt out what they were feeling, leaving nothing for the imagination of the audience. The acting was very unrealistic. The new version, throws in more (...) advances and striking images than the original, which took away from the movie. It tried to shock the new viewers in the way that the original had when it first came out, but in doing so, the quality lacked.
 The original was in black and white, but still it was one of the best films I have ever seen. The absence of color helped to bring the audience back to earlier days; when blood and gore weren't the only thing a horror film was good for.
With only two murders within 60 minutes of each other, it set the standards for today's horror films. A little sex and violence was the first layer to the horror film `cake'. Today's horror films have too much frosting. The film "Scream" glorifies bloody murder and gory scenes, which pulls away from the basic plan, the cake. It is refreshing to watch a simple and beautiful horror film.
The lack of surprise is one of the best things that Hitchcock could have done for the film. Surprise can make the audience jump, but that is a short thrill. Suspense creates a long lasting thrill that will keep the audience guessing. In the shower scene Hitchcock shows the murderer slowly walking towards Marian. We, the audience, know Marian is going to die but the suspense of not knowing when is invigorating.
"Psycho" is definitely a classic and deserves to be called so. The film exposed the thoughts of psychological issues, setting our own traps, and cold-blooded murder. Images from this film will stick in the audience's minds. Hitchcock is a brilliant man. I suggest seeing any Hitchcock film out there. His films are marvelous works of art.