Arnold Schwarzenegger is a game show contestant in which the stakes are his life.  Framed for a crime, he must literally run from his life from "stalkers" that are cheered on by an in person audience of thousands and a TV audience of millions.  These assailants could pass for Marvel Comics supervillians.  "The Running Man" is a game show has a contract with the government to place people convicted of major violent crimes on its show and satisfy people's desire to see these criminals hunted down.  Full pardons are supposedly available to those who survive.  Although this government is totalitiarian and is not big on free speech, they do allow "The Running Man" because it satisfies a poor and hungry population and serves as a valuable distraction.

The movie features Richard Dawson as the game show host, someone who was also a game show host in real life.  It also has Jesse Ventura, long before he was governor of Minnesota, as one of the stalkers.

The scene in which Schwarzenegger is running in loud colored tourist garb from police who are chasing him to get close enough to shoot a net over him is hilarious.

This is an example of what I call political science fiction.  It features a possible future social political scenario that is dramatic and far fetched.  Unlike traditional science fiction, this movie is not concerned with technology or speculations of what scientific discoveries and inventions will have been made by a particular point in the future.

Although our government is a far cry from "totalitarian", it is amazing how much in The Running Man has come true.  We do indeed have a government that has encroached more on our privacy and our civil liberties.  I generally agree with the DVD's special feature on civil liberties, but I would like for them to have given some examples of what they are talking about.  We also have contest shows that border on exploitation, courtesy of broadcasters that will put anything on TV for ratings.  The recent glut of reality TV is an example of this, as confirmed by another special feature on this DVD.  The set for "Climbing for Dollars", a TV show which Amber is watching in her apartment, eeriely resembles the set of "Fear Factor."

Who would have guessed that this 1987 movie would be able to tell us so much about our world today?