From the people who brought you "Wiseguy", "The A-Team", "The Rockford Files", "21 Jump Street", "Hunter", "Hardcastle and McCormick", and many, many more...comes one of the most underappreciated and misunderstood shows in the history of television.

I often think of it as a complementary piece to "The A-Team".  It was produced in the two years immediately preceding the premiere of "The A-Team", by the same creative personnel.  But whereas "The A-Team" was a straightforward concept executed in a very outlandish style, "The Greatest American Hero" was an outlandish concept executed in a very straightforward style.  The show is often misidentified as a comedy, spoof, or satire, but it isn't; no more than any of the other series I mentioned in the first sentence.

It was a series whose premise was difficult for the masses to "get"; and, apparently, impossible to explain to someone who didn't see the pilot episode.  This is the one place where I would fault the producers.  After the pilot, the series never really recapped the premise in a way that would help a brand new viewer understand the show (ala The A-Team's opening narration, or the OCB briefing sessions at the beginning of many Wiseguy episodes).

High school teacher Ralph Hinkley (William Katt) and FBI agent Bill Maxwell (Robert Culp) are partnered to "...change things, save this planet from destruction", by aliens who give Ralph a suit that will give him unearthly powers when he wears it.  However, before he can even get it home, Ralph loses the instruction book the aliens provided to properly operate the suit and it's powers.  The first time he tries to fly, he crashes into a brick wall and knocks himself unconscious (while a homeless man makes of with his street clothes, no less).  Sound like a silly premise?  It's not.

It's a show about ordinary people in extaordinary circumstances.  It's about struggling against adversity when you don't always have the necessary resources; or when you do have the nesessary resources, but no idea how to use them.  In short: it's The Human Condition...in 49 minutes, set to a jaunty Mike Post score...

Was it an early 1980's, prime-time, action-adventure show? Sure.  Was it a satire, a spoof, a kiddie show? Never!  The seriousness with which "The Greatest American Hero" was written and acted (the respect for the premise and the characters, keeping it all rooted in reality) is what makes this show unique, unforgettable, and a must-have for everybody's home video library.  The best episodes in this set are written by series creator Stephen J. Cannell, and director Rod Holcomb helps set the tone with his brilliant work on the 1st, 2nd, and 4th episodes

Co-starring: Connie Sellecca, Michael Pare, Faye Grant, Don Cervantes, Jesse D. Goins, and Brandon Williams.

...and, if you don't blink, you'll even see a young Danny Glover as plain clothes cop in the episode "Fire Man".