Which is to say, good enough that it is more enjoyable than an "A" movie.

This is the kind of cinema I love. Fun, different, entertaining.

The high points:
Rollins: I am a BIG Rollins fan, and oh my GOD was he great. He has the whole douchey jock thing DOWN. I like how even though he's playing a guy who um, plays an idiot, his character still has those moments where it kinda wears thin and he kinda wants to smack these idiots.

Alice Cooper: ...what's to say. If there was ever a person that found their calling, it's Alice Cooper. He plays his persona so well that the most surprising thing about him is how normal he is. That's the greatest thing I can say, the REAL him is the one you don't buy, his persona? Unquestionable. And he brings that same creepy charm to his character in this movie. And arguably does a pretty damned good job acting, not oscar worthy but, you expect worse from a musician!

Iggy Pop: Wow, Iggy has done some drugs in his life, lol. That being said, he plays pretty much what he seems like in real life. A musician that has kind of, moved forward, a guy who has been around, done some stuff, but seems like ultimately one hell of a decent guy. Great addition. Plus, who doesn't want to see Iggy Pop?

Dimitri Coats: That dudes face...holy CRAP. This guy stands out! That face, lol.

Dave Foley: If you know dave foley I don't really need to say anything.

The Music: Shockingly, even though you might expect the music to...ugh...to suck...it really doesn't. Catchy, goes great with the movie, very surprised by how enjoyable it was!

The Photography: This movie was BEAUTIFULLY shot. They don't flat out say it, but they allude to the fact it was shot with a RED camera, if so, RED should be paying THEM! Very well used.

And finally...Hugo: This guy...man, this is what comic relief is SUPPOSED to be, not prat falls and bear traps, just well timed, well placed, PERFECTLY acted, moments of brevity.

Never once does this movie feel hammy or lame, I don't even feel right calling it a B movie, the production quality is good (seems like they did an awesome job using real locations and good photography to make up for a giant budget), the acting is good (with only one semi intentional moment that kinda slips up), the music top notch, and an interesting (given the setting of vampires and rock and roll).

Given that a setting of vampires and rock and roll makes it virtually impossible NOT to make a cliche, the fact that they, in fact, did not make just another cliche goth-rock movie is flatly staggering.

After a couple viewings the underlying drug theme even seems to have it's own, very subtle, legs.

In the making of extra the director/writer/actor says at one point he "wanted to create something different". Well done man, you did.