If you've scrolled through the reviews, you see that many are divided between thinking it is absolute garbage and thinking it is a masterpiece. The movie requires an open-minded person in order to appreciate it. Otherwise it will make no sense and seem like such rubish as to be worth dirt.

At first the contradicting dialogue really threw me off. When they called for everyone to "draw your swords" and instead pulled out guns, it bothered me. People wearing hawaiian shirts and shouting Shakespeare in a gas station look strange; they really do. But after the initial shock, I began to simply accept things and relate to them.

Romeo and Juliet came to life for me, and I understood that Shakespeare's plays are meant to be seen, not read.

The entire modern setting is like a metaphor. You won't understand unless you alter your way of thinking. You CAN'T go in with any EXPECTATIONS. I think that's what gets people, is the expectations and the contradicting dialogue.

Leonardo did NOT play his part lifelessly or without emotion. A normal person with no acting skill does that. It is not easy to get before a camera like that and play out Shakespeare. The actors had to give it their own style in order for things to work, because there was no improvising and every line was essential and if the actors didn't like it- too bad. I felt that the two actors really brought the characters to life, and for once it seemed to me that Romeo and Juliet really were in love! When you're reading the play it seems ridiculous that two people could ever just suddenly love each other, but somehow it felt that way in the movie. It worked because of their expressions, their tones, and the atmosphere, all things that you simply don't get when reading it. Romeo and Juliet the book would never have survived so long, but Romeo and Juliet the play is a story that will go on and on through the ages and still inspire the same tragic awe.

Lastly, the ending was altered. In the script Romeo dies and then Juliet wakes, but in the movie she wakes just before he dies. The lines are all the same, except that two are switched so that the two lovers actually interact for a brief moment before dying. I am personally too wrapped up in frustration each time to care (it all just has to happen like one big and horrible coincidence), but I can see why that would bother people.

All in all, the visualization was good and had a unique feel to it, like almost everything is candle lit, even on the beach. The water imagery was wonderful and added so much more signifigance to the story. The characters were well portrayed and I found myself seeing more into them than I did when reading.

The movie is only confusing if you keep fighting against it. You can only appreciate it if you take it all in and accept it. Watch it once and then think it over. That's the least this movie deserves.