Wrestlemania 24 lived up to the hype no doubt about it. A very solid PPV, and the matches all delivered. It would have been nice to have some extras on the disc, because the only extras are the HOF ceremony and the 24 man battle royal. I definately reccomend you to purchase this though.

Belfast Brawl- Finlay vs JBL: A pretty good match with a few bumps. This was definately a brawl. The best spot of the match was when Finaly went diving through the second rope only to get a stiff hit in the head with a trash can lid in mid air. Very good spot. Also a moment that gave me a laugh is when JBL tossed a trash can at Hornswoggle. I must admit though the table was broken in a way that looked like it didn't hurt and i think the match should have introduced a few more weapons. Good match, but could have been better.  3/5 stars

Money In The Bank Ladder Match: Excellent match. My favorite MITB match yet. This match had many crazy moments, and I can only imagine how crazy this match would have been with Jeff Hardy being it (but he got suspended). Definately a match i could watch again. Best spot of the match came when Shelton was tossed off a ladder in the ring and landed on a set up ladder on the outside, in which the ladder broke. Crazy moment. But then again many moments where such as: Backstabber off the ladder, Moonsault of turnbuckle with ladder in hand, Sunset Flip Powerbomb/superplex off ladder. Along with many more. Definately a great match.  5/5 stars

Battle for Brand Supremacy- Umaga vs Batista: Decent match, but to be honest what can you expect out of these two? There's not a moment worth mentioning, and the ending came with a very sloppy batista bomb. Ok match but wasn't Wrestlemania worthy. And one thing i don't understand is what was the point of this? How does that prove Smackdown is better? but anyways i give this a 2/5 stars.

ECW Championship- Kane vs Chavo Guerrero: Absolutely Terrible use of ECW. For the first time ever there will be an ECW title match at Wrestlemania, the only bad thing is the match ended in less than 10 seconds (somewhere around 5 or 7 seconds). Horrible way to use ECW and i personally would have liked these two guys to at least have a 10 minute match.  1/5 stars (the reason i give it a star is because of Kane's pyro lol)

Career Threatening Match- Shawn Michaels vs Ric Flair: This was no doubt about it match of the night. Very emotional matchup and a very good wrestling match. The match had many counters, and was evenly match. Shawn Michaels goes for a moonsault later on in the match and manages to hit his stomach on the edge of the anouncers table. Looked like that hurt a lot. But this match was very emotional with the fact that Shawn Michaels couldn't seem to finish the job and didn't want to. Finally Ric Flair stands up crying and shouts to Shawn Michaels "Come On".. Shawn then utters the words "I'm sorry, I love you", then hits a SCM to finish it. That classic finish will definately be talked about for years to come. If you're a Ric Flair fan you will definately be proud of this match.  5/5 stars

Playboy BunnyMania Lumberjack match- Maria and Ashley vs Beth Phoenix and Melina:  An ok wrestling match, but the real reason they had this match was to really promote Maria's Playboy shoot and to show the sexy divas. Not really much to say about this match besides the lights go off halfway during it and it had a pretty good ending with Snoop Dog clotheslining Santino. Which by the way im marking out for Santino, he's excellent on the mic. 2/5 stars.

WWE title Triple Threat Match- Orton vs Cena vs HHH: Pretty good match with a few good moments, such as the double rope DDT by orton on Cena and HHH. The top rope superplex/electric chair drop was also well done (but then again nothing we haven't seen before right?) well the match was an ok one but i think WWE should have put more time into the match than Cena's entrance -_-. But needless to say i was extremely happy about the ending which is why i give this match a 4/5 stars.

Big Show vs Floyd Mayweather: Pretty Good match. It was anything goes and boy did they take advantage of that. It was good to see Show slam Mayweather a couple of times. As well as Chokeslam a few of his Mayweather's henchman. I just didn't like the fact that Show lost, but then again it was very predictible seeing as a celebrity never loses at Wrestlemania, and not to mention the fact hat Floyd's undefeated. I just don't think Show should have been brought back the way he did. But i guess it was an ok match and the ending was a very solid punch (with brass knucks) which connected perfectly. It looked like it hurt.  3/5 stars.

World Heavyweight Title- Edge vs Taker: I was extremely proud of this match. And this is almost as good as the Flair HBK match. Very Back and Forth match with each superstar hitting numerous finishers and getting close counts. Edge is very talented and i love the way he managed to counter some of Taker's moves in the coolest (sorry for lack of a better word) way. Very unpredictable match and had an awesome ending. What a way to end off Wrestlemania.  5/5 stars

All in all Wrestlemania this year was really good and i reccomend you purchase this DVD. Especially for the Money in the Bank match, Flair vs HBK match, and Taker vs Edge match.