I just finished seeing this film, and I have never before seen such serene images on the screen.  I watched in awe through the first viewing, and immediately thereafter, watched it a second time.  It was during this 2nd view that I was overwhelmed.  I realized that tears were trickling down my face in viewing the sheer magnitude of what I was seeing.
I found myself watching this film with my eyes, ears, and mouth wide open.  I saw images that in all my years, I never REALLY appreciated until today.  There is up-close video of animals in all phases of their lives. A lover of the ocean since childhood, I was awestruck with the pictures that I saw.  The word 'excited' doesn't even begin to describe my emotions.  During this movie, I grew to have a new understanding and appreciation for the ocean's creatures.
Species I've never seen or read about.  Such beauty and grace, even in the violent food gathering of the orca.  Their method for hunting includess a method for hunting sea lion pups.  They race through the waves, to the sand, almost beaching themselves, and pluck them off the sand, one by one.
Other visions that I will never forget:
A close-up of starfish walking on a rock...you could see the hundreds of tiny tube feet pushing it along.
Pelicans diving en masse to a school of sardines, to fill themselves with one of their prey.
Whales asleep peacefully, side-by-side, upside down in their mystical clear waters.  Shortly their "massive and majestic body will be gliding along the ocean floor, without disturbing a single grain of sand".
Views of a sea lion gliding about, then "chasing a porcupine puffer fish for fun".
Crabs that 'tiptoe' by snoozing sea lions, hoping that they will not be it's snack.
A great white shark leaping of of the water to catch a seal mid-jump.
Video of a blue whales' mouth and front body so engorged with water and their prey, the tiny krill.  Followed by them expelling the water, and leave themselves with a mouthful, a tasty appetizer.
Sizes of animals from the massiveness of the whale, to the tiny luminescent plankton that inhabit the depths.

All of this joined by photography was just outstanding.  Scenes were filmed from a variety of locations.  One was with a camera mounted on a heli-cam, just above the surface, to capture detailed images that I've never seen.  A camera on the end of a torpedo, capturing animals, in a way that others can only dream of.  On board ship cameras were utilized, and of course, underwater cameras as well.  Slow motion photography was utilized almost throughout, which was truly improved by the well-chosen words of the narration.  As narrated, "Then in the span of one lifetime, as the human race reached for the stars, it seems like all of nature got out of whack".  This was followed by images of the destruction and pollution that man is responsible for.

I saw instincts in animals that made me feel so small and unimportant in this world.  I was tied to the screen...it is the most explosive, gentle, riveting film of any type that I've ever seen.

All in all, visions that I've heard of before, read about before, but never REALLY SAW until now.

I wished that I had seen this on a full screen -- I imagine that it would have been breathtaking!  I will never forget this film.  Partially because I plan on going online later today to purchase a copy for myself, and for my aging mother, another true lover of the world beneath the surface.