Amity has been shark attack free for a few years....Brody is back to work.
And another shark smells food (a la human) off the coast of our New England town. His first victims: surveying divers photographing the Orca, which was sunken by the first Whitey White. How ironic!
So, more attacks happen, making Brody both eager to stop the shark, and full of anxiety as he remembers the first ordeal too well.
And since teen slasher flicks began popping out around everywhere in '78 when this was made, of course, teenage Mike Brody and his teen friends take their mini regatta shils out to sea for some fun. The teen slahing begins....er...teen chomping.
SHARK: 'sniff,sniff' "Hmmm, (licking chops)...myum myum, FOOOOD....."
As our shark chases the teens, the terror actually picks up and does scare us pretty good. The shark seems more of a brute than the first and much more daring, attacking a helicopter....wow.
Some of the deaths are (seriously) even more scary than the original master. Hardly any scenes are phony or drivel, just most of the film is not GREAT filmmaking like the first.  Acting is nearly as good as the first. The hard part is watching a film that's had this happen to the same people before. The interesting part is that you feel for Brody, as his notions of another shark gets (not again...groan..)shoved aside by the dingbat Mayor, and then gets fired! This is different.
Teens scream, especiallly one girl.....who after a few of her screams, you hope one of her pals shoves her in the water. 
This film is actuallly good, and quite scary....see, the first is such a monument of filmmaking (character development, scares, ideals, etc), while this one is mostly a shark feast, with good quality attack scenes, and even acting. They managed to get some more out of the JAWS stories and characters....just enough. 
However, what are the chances of a shark even bigger than the other 25 footer coming to the same beach a few summers later? 
I don't know.....huh? A fin.....huh-what the-AH ! Help! I've gone out too far- my boat! Get awway from my boat-hu-hu-AIEEEEEEEEEEEE !!!!!!! (blub-blub-bloap)