Being a big fan of the book, I was eagerly awaiting the movie.  I was caressing the DVD cover as I quickly plowed through the book.  In watching the DVD, I was absolutely impressed with how very closely the book related to the movie.  One who read the book can recite the movie lines before they happen.  
However, as other reviewers have written, there is something missing.  The roles played by Laura and Barry were very well done.  John Cusack makes a very disappointing Rob.  He plays the role well in actuality, but his narrative to the camera is not at all convincing.  Furthermore, we do not get a sense of the evolution of Rob (please read my book review).  When one reads the book, the astute reader can see the point of High Fidelity is to allow Rob to mature, get onto the next phase of life.  This is only inferred in the movie, while it is overstated in the book.  One cannot blame the reason as there is too much information the screenplay writers needed to mirror the book.  The all important part in the book (where Rob meets with Laura's friends...Miranda and David maybe?) was crucial as it revealed that Rob had been successful in turning into a mature adult.  This was only implied in the movie, and its omission did more harm than good.  The whole notion of Rob's relationships being correlated with death was completely abandoned.  
So four stars for an excellent portrayal of the book (a feat very few movies can do.)  Most fans who love the movie will have read the book only on level 1 (the surface level, strictly about his relationships and pop music.)  Those who read the book on level 2 about his self-evolution will find this missing from the film.  Again, one cannot blame the screenplay writers.  With such limited time allowed for content, as well as the hacking by editors (notice the deleted scenes from the movie also being loyal to the book), one needs to lean one way or the others.  The screenplayers leaned towards level 1 which is fine if that is your motivation.