Joyride is about a young collegiate who suddenly one day finds that his long-distance female friend-hopefully with benefits-has broken up with her current boyfriend because he was getting too "serious" (I like hearing that word out of college students' mouths, I really do).  Well, faster than you can say GONE IN 60 SECONDS, our lead male played by Paul (my `car' movie was way better dude and yes the first 15 mins of it was about a tuna sandwich!) Walker, is embarking on a cross-country journey to pick up his wannabe squeeze Vena, played by Lelee Sobieski.  Along the way, our hero picks up his useless brother, who has once again been arrested for an alcohol-related incident.  Since they haven't seen each other in some 5 years, you would figure they would do some catching up...but instead decide to alter their fates forever by playing a not-so-original joke on a CB radio.  They start a conversation with this man (with the voice of Ted Levine, unbilled; yes that voice u hear is familiar, he played Buffalo Bill in THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS) who goes by the handle "Rusty Nail".  Paul pretends to be a female and starts a flirtation with this Rusty Nail of whom they know NOTHING about, and eventually takes the joke to the extreme of inviting the lonely trucker to meet him/'her' to a hotel in room 17 (while the two brothers stand idly by in room 18 and get to be `in' on the joke).  Well, the movie starts to go in various predictable directions as our two brothers are menaced by the now very peeved and relentless Rusty Nail; giving them a "break" per se, and then eventually menacing all three of our headlining stars in a sometimes frightening and claustrophobic (but predictable) manner.
 Ok, so what are we dealing with here you ask?  Well, I could steer you picky viewers away by telling you that JOYRIDE is anything but, and is merely a rehash of Steven Spielberg's ultimate classic DUEL with a hint of Scream-like humor and pace; with a consummate air of predictability that is consistent throughout.  But, taking the film at face value, the film is fun and has some very tense moments.  It definitely isn't as funny as it thinks it is, but has a few laughs courtesy of the always-humorous Steven Zahn.  JOYRIDE is one of those time-wasters, a movie that wasn't intended to be dissected under a microscope and picked apart like I did in the in the first few sentences of this paragraph (hey I have to appeal to the masses here).  It was made to entertain, and does on a few different levels.  It succeeds as a good thriller with decent acting (though as good-looking as Paul Walker is, he would DEFINITELY benefit from some acting classes-lets just hope he doesn't go the Keanu route and wing it throughout the rest of his career), a genuine sense of paranoia that lingers whenever we aren't aware of the villains whereabouts, and some well-placed scares throughout.  It won't become a classic, but if you are in the mood for a little formulaic thriller with bite, then this just might be the thriller for you.