I really enjoyed this movie. I am a huge Marilyn Monroe fan. I have been a fan since I was 12, and I am 20 now. I saw this movie weeks back with my mom at the mall in Spartanburg, SC. Anyway I was very impressed with Michelle's performance and potrayal of Marilyn Monroe. All of the movies based on her including Blonde, Marilyn Monroe the Untold Story, Norma Jean and Marilyn, this is by far the best and only good and decent movie that potrays Marilyn the way she deserves to be shown. I am so sick and tired and fed up with movies potraying her as a slut or a gorgeous blonde with no brains. Michelle really manages to shine in this movie as one of the most beloved Hollywood icons and legends of all time. She manages to show the gorgeous and beautiful woman and actress the public knows and the part behind that imagine that the public and the fans were kept from discovering: the fragile woman with a sensitive soul and a fear of being abandoned and alone. Michelle really did her research and had the courage to take on such a famous and Hollywood legend like Monroe to play in this film. I know quite a bit of Marilyn Monroe fans I know on facebook are disappointed not by her performance by the film itself: claming that the affair that happens between Marilyn and Colin Clark, the assistent director of the film "The Prince and the Showgirl" in which Marilyn starred along with probably the most respected and talented classical actors of all time, Laurence Olivier, isn't accurate or true. The film itself is based on the book,"My Week With Marilyn" by Colin Clark himself. The film tells the story of making the prince and the showgirl and the tension between Monroe and Olivier doing the making of the film as well her one week innocent affair with Clark while her husband, Arthur Miller, is away in the USA visiting his children. After reading the book itself before the film was released in theaters and watching the documentary "The Prince, the Showgirl, and Me'' told by Clark's point of view I believe the possibility of an affair did take place. Most of Marilyn's friends who are still alive today think it never actually happened while her co-star, Don Murray, from "Bus Stop" thinks it may have happened. I'm not saying that the affair is true or not. All I'm saying is I think it's a possibility. Afterall, Marilyn was under tremudlous pressure while filming "The Prince and the Showgirl" in England while she was stressed over her recent marriage to the famed and respected playwright, Miller. She was on edge due to Laurence's behavior and attitude toward her while directing the film as well as being her co-star and the tensions in her marriage especially after finding the diary left open by her husband saying he was disappointed in her and she wasn't the angel he thought he was marrying. I think she could have found comfort and solitude in Clark and felt he could be trusted. I was very touched and moved by Michelle's performance. At times I forgot it was Michelle who was on screen and thought it was Marilyn herself. "All people ever see is Marilyn Monroe. When they find out I'm not her they run. Why is it that everyone I love leaves?" Monroe confesses to Colin in a passionate scene from the film. Marilyn could have very well said that. It sounds very much like something Marilyn would have really said. Afterall she once said,"I want to be loved for myself and my talent." She wasn't the typical movie star in real life. Marilyn Monroe was just a fanasty and an act she performed for the camera and the public. But it eventually became a burden. "Fame stirs up envy." And "Fame is fickle," Marilyn Monroe once said herself. I was very pleased and excited that Michelle won the golden globe award herself for her performance in this film, an award in which Marilyn won 50 years ago. Michelle has never spoken cruel or disrespectful toward Marilyn ever in any of the interviews I've seen and always treated her with respect. She said,"She was a very complex person." By her performance in this film you can see the Hollywood icon and legend and the real person she was in this film. I think that is the reason why I was very impressed with this film and loved it. I will definitely be buying it when it is released on DVD March 13, the day after my birthday. I was very impressed by everyone else's performance : Kenneth Branagh, Judi Dench, and Doughery Scott just to name a few. Kenneth mangages to do a wonderful and convincing potrayal of Laurnce Oliver and show him as the very talented actor he was as well as a vain and impatient man who had no patience with Marilyn's inability to remember her lines or deliver a perfect performance on camera on the 1st take or her obsession with the Method acting or her relibility on her drama coach, Paula Strasberg doing each take during filming. Michelle manages to show the insecure and lonely person Marilyn Monroe really was and well as her determination and dream to be taken seriously and become a dramatic actress. I rate this film 10 stars and will be watching this for a month when I finally get my hands on the DVD. Anyone who loves Marilyn Monroe and is a huge fan of hers like me should watch this film for Michelle's performance even if they are unsure of the accuracy of the film. They wont be disappointed. I wish I could see this film 2 or more times before it is released on DVD!!!! Go for it!! It would make a perfect gift for anyone who loves and is obsessed with this Hollywood icon. Definitely worth watching more then once and for years to come and to add to your Marilyn Monroe collection!!! :))