A friend mentioned this movie to me.  I had never heard of it, but was glad to be able to find it at my library.  After watching it and loving it, I was thrilled when I found a used VHS copy in a second hand shop.  This is one of those movies that can be pulled out and watched at least every year.  I first viewed it over the course of four evenings and each time, I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen with Jean and Joe.  At the beginning of the movie, Jean is on the island of Malaya with her brother and a group of English workers.  The Japanese overtake the island and cart off the men, apparently to a work camp.  They force the women and children of the group to walk from place to place with accompanying soldiers.  We see the woman at times afraid, at times bold, on the verge of giving up, yet determined to keep on.  We see them sick, hungry and dirty.  We watch some of them die.  This is where the movie is the most engrossing.  The characters are well developed and I almost felt as if I was marching right along with them.  I came to love the character of Jean--she's smart and determined and also has a lot of compassion and a sense of humor.  One of the best parts of the movie is when this rag tag group of women and children meet up with two Australian prisoners of war.  There's an immediate attraction between Jean and one of the prisoners, Joe, and his energy infuses Jean with new life during the short time they are together.  After the war, Jean inherits a large amount of money.  She has never forgotten Joe and after much time and effort on both their parts, Joe and Jean get together again--this time in Australia.  Jean uses her determination and smarts to develops some businesses, all the while wondering if she can make it on the outback.  Joe loves Jean, but wonders himself whether or not he can ask her to live the life he loves.  Their romance is appealing--they are both strong, independent people who have a passion for life and for each other.  If you appreciate a long, thoughtful story with interesting and likeable characters, I would highly recommend this wonderful film.