Swing kids is about four friends who loved swing music, and a friendship between two of the boys that was suddenly changed when Peter got in trouble for trying to get the Nazis back by stealing a radio. Peter was the one who got caught and had to join the HJ or Hitler Youth. Thomas joined too because he wasn't going to let Peter have to go all alone for something they both did. They walked into it disliking the Nazis greatly, and planned on keeping it that way. They were just going to use it as a cover and be HJ by day and Swing kids by night. Thomas soon turned into one of the Nazis and Peter was very upset and that threatened their friendship. Thomas was even turning in his own family when they say something bad about Hitler. Peter had a job of delivering packages to families, but he didn't know what was in them so he opened one and saw the ashes of their husbands and fathers. This devastated Peter because the Nazis took his father away and he was so weak when he returned that he eventually died. Peter then stopped going to the HJ.
  I did like; however, how accurate the movie was and how they used teenage kids to play the roles to relate to the youth of today, so we could understand what they were going through, and knew what they were thinking. It had a lot of action and was never boring. It had a lot of emotions and would keep you hooked. I liked the dancing too because it gave a nice relief to the dramatic movie.
  I did not like all of the violence though, and how Thomas became a Nazi when he promised Peter that he wouldn't, and would stay a Swing Kid forever. Also, I didn't like how the Nazis treated the Germans, and especially the Jews, and when Peter had to deliver the boxes to the families.
  The Diary of Anne Frank and Swing Kids are related in some ways. One was the way the Gestapo treated the Germans and Jews. And another was all of the nervous tension that both of the movies had. There were many connections between the two movies. I got to see them all from both the German and Jewish point of view and could see what they all went through and what the torment of thinking that you could be caught at any moment and taken away to a concentration camp and lives be completely changed probably forever.