Despite the legendary excesses and scandals that went on during the making of this unjustly maligned movie, it has three of the most critical foundation stones any work of this scope needs to succeed: 
1).  A unified vision or point of view, extending from the development of plot and characters to the physical look of the production itself.
2).  A literate and compelling script that could play irrespective of the opulence of its surroundings.
3).  Four leading actors who instinctively understand how to work their material, making the seams between performer and character invisbile to the spectator.  
#s 1 &amp; 2 were supplied by director / screenwriter Joseph L. Mankiewicz, #3 by Taylor, Burton, Harrison, and McDowell.
This is a film that easily bears repeated viewings, and, again, thanks to Mankiewicz and his actors, functions simultaneously on a variety of levels.  For example, there are the love stories:
Caesar &amp; Cleopatra / Antony &amp; Cleopatra. 
The tender scenes are written and played almost poetically, but there are also political manouverings going on as each uses the other to attain or augment their power.  This is made even more fascinating in that these are obviously intelligent, witty, charming, beautiful, ruthless, and influential people whose calculations shape nations and Empires.
Given all of the above, the movie also looks like the enormous sum it cost, has a brilliant score by Alex North, an accomplished supporting cast (in particular, Martin Landau, Pamela Brown, Hume Cronan, Cesare Danova), and spectacular "set pieces" that though fully integrated into the plot, almost play as "movies within the movie" - Cleopatra's Entry into Rome, Cleopatra's Barge &amp; Banquet, the Battle of Actium.
In sum, Mankiewicz and cast succeed in bringing off the big "world stage" themes critical to this genre of historical film.  Their greatest achievement however lies in making an audience understand that these ancient archetypes were human beings trying to bear the weight of both history and their emotions.