The Mercury 7 astronauts were once-proud figher jocks who sold out to NASA and LBJ by volunteering to be "spam in a can" on
"flights" over which they had no control and on craft they were not allowed to maneuver.  In fact, the originally designed space capsules had no windows, and Alan Shepherd had to urinate in his suit -- pee in his pants -- on the launch pad because he had no control over the launch and couldn't leave his seat.  In other words, they became like circus performers who are shot from a cannon -- undoubtedly brave, but neither skillful nor pilots -- and all for the glory of hyped-up public recognition and assorted freebies.
The real pilots, the best pilots, were the test pilots, against whom the astronauts are compared throughout the movie.  They were the real heroes, like Chuck Yaeger, who broke the sound barrier with a broken rib and had to close his plane's door using a sawed-off broom handle for leverage.  These men flew planes, tested the edge of their skills and of their crafts, and often died trying.  The best ones weren't interested in being astronauts because it wasn't "flying" and didn't really require "pilots."
The astronauts are stuffing themselves on free food and ogling fan dancers in the Houston Astrodome during a celebration LBJ put together for them for strictly political purposes.  "Look what I brought you, Texas!" LBJ shouts, introducing the astronauts and, by implication, the pork of the new Houston Space Center.  Grateful for the glory and bounty, the astronauts momentarily look at each other pensively as if to admit, just for a secret moment, that they aren't really hot stuff and don't deserve all this; that the best pilots, the real pilots, are still out there "pushing the edge of the envelope," unsung by the public.
For meanwhile, in a wonderful editing juxtaposition typical of this marvelous movie, Chuck Yeager flies his new experimental plane from the runway up to the far reaches of the atmosphere, achieving the near reaches of outer space, entirely on his own skills as a pilot, and loses control of his craft in the thin air.  It appears he made this flight on his own say-so, on his own terms, an ability the astronauts gave up long ago for cheap public glory.