I think some people are missing the point of Dark Star -- the plot point most often repeated is that these guys are in search of "unstable planets" to destroy in order to preclude colonization. But the unspoken truth is that their criteria for selecting the supposedly "unstable" planets set for destruction is incredibly thin. The result is that these four extremely bored, long-suffering (twenty years in space) bureacratic-type hippies are actually selecting perfectly fine planets, each one probably supporting life, and marking them for destruction -- mainly because they were sent on the mission with a total of twenty interstellar bombs, and they will be allowed to return home after all twenty bombs have been used to destroy planets. So basically, they're just in a hurry to get it done and go home. The movie picks up around bomb number 19, and the final bomb #20 is the one that decides to blow itself up in the bomb bay, due to the alien's tampering with the computer system.

This whole concept of four spaced out dudes travelling around the galaxy looking for perfectly good planets to destroy, for virtually no purpose besides destruction for destruction's sake, is, I think, the main driver of the absurdity of the movie, and is the main point of the underlying commentary being made by the filmmakers. Compare this to the corporate greed in Cameron's Avatar resulting in the destruction of the Navee, or the corporate bloodthirstiness later displayed in the Weyland-Utani corporation's search for the highly destructive life forms in the Alien series.

Also not being noticed by many on this forum: while it has been said that Dark Star is a 2001 parody, there is one scenario where the beachball (alien) traps Pinback in the elevator, which is resolved with a direct parody of the sequence in 2001 where commander Bowman lets himself into the Discovery using the explosive bolts. In the case of Dark Star, it's Pinback, fat stomach stuck in the tiny elevator hatch, who uses the explosive bolts to eject himself from the non-functional elevator, his anger towards the alien imitating Bowmans determination to shut down Hal 9000 after releasing himself from being imprisoned in the pod with no space helmet. The elevator sequence in Dark Star has to be one of the most technically advanced and effective scenes ever designed. It's also funnier than sh&t!

For me one of the other funnier sections of this movie is Pinback's video diary in which he claims -- whether as a schizophrenic delusion, deliberate falsification, or perhaps even personal truth, we never really find out which -- to not actually be Pinback, but a lab technician who was mistaken for Pinback and accidentally launched into space on the mission. Dan O'Bannon's Pinback characterization is almost Firesign Theatre material (for those of you that are familiar with that popular 60s/70s progressive comedy troupe!)

Another hilarious scene worth mentioning is when Boiler, arguably the most macho of the bunch, reaches his limit of sanity, and decides to use the ship's laser for target practice on some metal plates, right inside the ship! Pinback realises this could kill everyone if the laster pierces the hull and the two of them get into a wrestling match over the laser. Pricelessly absurd and over-the-top!

At any rate, this is a fine, fine funny movie. Definitely check it out if you like Science Fiction, comedy, 2001, and absurd humour.