"I thought I had, maybe, a year," said Father Joseph Girzone. "I remember thinking: What do I want to do before I die? What is it I need to say? I decided I wanted to write a book about Jesus. I wanted to write a simple little book about the Jesus that ordinary people met and loved, the Jesus that Jewish people saw walking down the street."
The result of his desires was the novel, Joshua.  This novel has recently been released as a film by the same name.
The films premise: What would it be like if Jesus walked on earth today?  This movie is not mean to be a modern telling of Christ's life, nor his Second Coming.  Rather, it is a work of fiction based upon an appearance of Christ in modern America.
Joshua, a woodcarver, comes to town and takes up residence in a woman's barn.  He begins rebuilding the Baptist church and doing other good works.  He teaches a woman to cook, a young man to play the guitar, carves a statue of Peter for the Catholic church, and generally offers profound guidance to all he comes in contact with.  Joshua also performs miracles.  He makes a blind woman see and even raises a man from the dead.
Apart from the unusually difficult task of presenting a modern day Christ on the screen accurately and reverently, the film unfortunately has several theological issues.
1.  The first problematic issue is the presentation of Baptists and Catholics as basically the same.  The ecumenical tone comes through loud and clear.  Both are presented as Christians and Joshua comes to help both of them.  
The embracing of Catholic doctrine is implied by Joshua's relationship with the local priests and his attending of mass services, but it is most evident in the film's treatment of Peter and the Pope.  Joshua is commissioned to carve a statue of Peter, and it is stated that Peter is the rock upon which the church was built. 
During Joshua's interview with the Pope, Joshua constantly refers to the Pope as Peter. Joshua even tells the Pope (calling him Peter) that he (Peter) has not changed much. Joshua seems to be revealing that not only is he Christ but that the Pope was, whether the Pope knew it or not, the reincarnation of Peter. 
This false doctrine comes from a misinterpretation of Matthew 16:18, "And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."
Catholics claim that this verse establishes Peter as the first priest and Pope of the church.  A proper understanding of this text shows that Christ was using Peter's name to teach a lesson.  Peter means rock.  Christ was saying Peter's name means rock and upon this rock, Myself, I will build my church.  The rock is Christ, and the reference is to his life and ministry.  Remember, Christ has already told His disciples that He would build His church.
Evangelical Protestants and Catholics have very different doctrines.  The differences are not minor.  The very message of the gospel is replaced with works by the Catholic church and yet Joshua never even approaches the subject.
2.  This leads to another concern.  The gospel is never clearly and definitively presented. The small pieces we do get are not balanced.  Joshua preaches love to  the exclusion of the law.  He even confronts the priest for a message he preached on the law.  The true message of the gospel is a balance between the law and love.  We have violated God's law and should fear his imminent judgment.  However, God demonstrated his love in making an escape from his judgment through Jesus Christ.  When we repent of our ways and turn to Christ we are given salvation.
3. Director, John Purdy, says that he hoped that people would watch the film and leave saying, "Could Jesus really be that cool?"  This statement just about sums up the whole attitude of the film and much of the religious society today. 
Let's make Jesus cool and His message more palatable.  The film did it exactly like much of Christianity has done today, by making Christ and Christians look just like  the lost.  Joshua visits a bar and attends a "Christian" rock concert. (Music by CCM's Third Day and Michael W. Smith is used throughout the film)  He used the terms, "What the heck?" and "sucks".
A Christ who is just like me, is not a Christ that I need.  I need a Savior who can forgive my sins and so does a lost and dying world around us.  The "coolest" thing about Christ is His holiness.  He is set apart from you and me.  He is not like you and me, He is God Almighty.
We know that Christ will not return again until His Second Coming, but if He did, it is quite clear from the Word of God that this Joshua cannot be my Jesus.