It's safe to say that if you love anime, ..., this is by far one of the best anime I've ever seen (one of the first also). I can't tell you enough how warming it is to watch this movie. You run through all kinds of emotions without really realising. I could watch it 50 times more and never get sick of it; and that is exactly why its worth spending money on this disc instead of downloading the movie from the net .... AKIRA is the story of Tetsuo, an insecure young kid who's a member of a young bike gang in futurisitc Tokyo when political unrest and terrorism seems to be everywhere. These youngsters have no real direction in life and Testsuo finds his identity through Keneda, the leader of the group, also a chirpy, likeable and charming young man. Despite these faily simplistic plot elements, AKIRA is an anime that runs alot deeper then you would imagine and challenges you on several different psychological standpoints. Let's just say the story unravels quiet alarmingly to a climactic, enigmatic ending that you will be trying to decipher the rest of your life! One of the most enjoyable facets of AKIRA is the characterisation. Every person seems quite realistic and I guess people can relate to them on some level - mainly Tetsuo and Keneda. The animation is fantastic, if I'm not mistaken, AKIRA was the first of its kind to use cell based animation or something of the sort. The visuals are great for an anime made back then. The voice acting (I've heard it only English) is fantastic which is something you can't say for many anime. On this special edition, you have the option of listening to the original voice acting or the newley dubbed version which sounds much crisper (although I imagine many AKIRA fans will be slightly dissapointed at the new voices). The original voice-audio track seems a bit muffled in comparison to the newer audio but it's still watchable. I would not hesitate to add this to my collection any time. Those who enjoyed watching the Patlabor movies, Neon Genesis Evangelion, Ghost in the Shell ... etc (basically any anime which challenges your intellect) should love AKIRA, though there are those of you I know who will grumble about not understanding what is going on. Regardless, it's certainly wonderful to watch and I see it's made an impact on more then a few anime's since its release, eg Spriggan.... Have fun my beautiful readers, have fun.