Apparently not. Matt Stone and Trey Parker have always been geniouses at making the most offensive, pushing the envelope comedies ever. My favorite genre of movie is comedy. My library may not be strong, but trust me, I have seen just about every comedy ever made. The one star reviewers say that the jokes are old and out-dated. I was wondering, did you and I see the same movie? I have never seen or heard these jokes anywhere else. if anyone can tell you that accurately, its me.

This movie is hilarious. Its got great satire and bashes whatever it can. Some people say it lets conservatives off the hook and focuses mainly on bashing liberals. Well, you know what? Matt and Trey have been making fun of conservatives longer than liberals. If any of their creations prove that, it is definately the South Park movie. That was thier conservative bashing movie, now this one is the liberal bashing movie. I won't explain the story, because a lot of people have already written reviews which explained it, so go read thier's if you really want to know what its about.

The movie generally pokes fun at the film actors guild, or F.A.G. It makes fun of all the actors who try and act all "liberal" and protest the war. The most noticeable among others, is Michael Moore. Well, all I can say about that is, I am glad somebody had the balls to make fun of Michael Moore, because he is really f**king annoying with his stupid pointless movies.

The movie is funny, in general. And the plot isn't very bad either. I just don't like the whole romance thing thrown in here. its kind of gay. Then again, in one of the special features, Matt Stone did say, "I am very shocked to see that our crew is so focused on making this movie. Just a gay little script we wrote, and to my suprise, everyone is taking it so seriously."

Which brings me to my next point: Special Features. There are a lot of them to keep you busy, and are in fact, pretty imformative and interesting as to what it took to make this movie.

Nonstop explosions, hilarious satire, just get this movie. Its a keeper. Thanks for reading. If you really enjoyed the movie, I also suggest you get the soundtrack.

-PEACE YO!