It's not often that everything comes together in a movie. John Ford's elegy to frontier America, "My Darling Clementine" is one of those movies, where script, acting, photography and directing make art.  Many reviewers point out that the west of "My Darling Clementine" is a west of myth, where the characters, story and scenery are larger than life. But are they? If one could be transported back to the Western frontier and walk into a saloon in the 1880's, I think you'd see just the kind of characters that appear in the movie. The same glassy, emotionless stare of men who've been drinking heavily.  The dark, low-ceilinged saloon that could be gay one minute and deathly the next fits the descriptions that I've read of the era; that combination of 100-proof whiskey, Colt's Army revolver, and little to do except gamble.

The icy look in Henry Fonda's eyes when he confronts Doc Holiday or the Clantons - if you didn't have that look in the old west, how could you possibly be a lawman? This is the frontier, before the rule of law.  Earp's declaration that he wants Tombstone to be a place where "decent folk can live" in a town that is still frontier - ie., lawless, ie., anything can happen.  That's why we're fascinated. I'm speaking as a male, of course, and, as Freud has said, civilization does have it's discontents.

And that's why the church dance scene is so riveting.  The church is not built yet, only a foundation exists. It's the gorgeous moment between the worlds.  The unformed and the formed, frontier and settled.  When the church is completed and the school opens; it won't be a frontier. The movie exists in that moment between the worlds. When the Clantons are killed, civilization has won; the movie ends.

But there have been hundreds of western movies with a similar premise. Why is this a classic, instead of a formula?  The photography for one reason. Each scene is a balanced, well crafted composition.  The landscape is a character in this movie.  It dominates, we're not in the city here, folks, and we know it. Acting.  Probably Henry Fonda's greatest movie. Fonda's Wyatt Earp has a moral and a physical center, a gravity that draws you in. In short, he's a man.  Who today has that gravity? Leonardo di Caprio? Brad Pitt? Gimme a break.

Walter Brennan is great as the Clanton father.  He's a great actor who had won several Academy Awards previously. See him also in "The Westerner" as judge Roy Bean.  All the supporting actors are great, even Cathy Downs as Clementine, whom I never thought was given recognition that she should have.  Victor Mature played director John Ford's alter ego; alcoholic, self-hating, full of rages.  Ford would years later punch Henry Fonda and end their friendship.

And finally, there's all those small "bits" that seem to breathe life into what could have been just another western.  Fonda's "dance" on the porch post, the bit with the barber, the Shakesperean actor, the champaign scene, the poker game.  Yes, this is a 1940's era movie, so Linda Darnell sings a couple of songs. There some fake saguaro cacti in a few shots, the opening credits are laughable. But this is a movie where one forgives.  It has a largeness of spirit that's hard to find today.