What in the world were Warner Brothers thinking?  First they botched the Stanley Kubrick DVD Collection years ago when they released the worst looking video copies ever on DVD.  The VHS versions looked 10X better.

3 years ago they released the first Goodfellas DVD that had the outdated technology of a single layered disc that you had to flip over when the film was half way over.  The visual quality and treatment was average, but nothing great, for a very visually oriented film.

Now, 3 years later and something I've been looking forward to for a long time they release a 2 disc special features DVD for a very well made film.

I'm appalled and saddened to say that this version is the worst treatment to DVD I've ever seen.  You will see bleached out and washed out images that look ghostly.  You will see scratches on the film image (ie, the scene where DeNiro and Sorvino go over to Liotta's girlfriend penthouse to warn him about messing around with his wife) You will see colors that fade and flickers or light that have no purpose of being there.  You will see horizontal lines from time to time that appear out of nowhere.

You will see something that is horrifying to watch and something you can't miss becuase it's so distracting. On the interior shots in the bars or the darkly lit room scenes and there are square pixels all over the place.  This really will distract you.

I own a $3,500 Mitsuomi DVD player that is state of the art. It's a prototype from Japan and it's the best in the world. This player will fix flaws and try to correct them when playing back DVDs.  I also own a Sony Progressive scan DVD player that is top of the line for consumer models.  I played this DVD on both models and same result.  Absolute trash.

The first edition flip side DVD has much, much better quality and that DVD wasn't anything to laud over.

My advice to all of you is if your a big fan of the movie, buy it.  You'll like some of the special features (although they are very very short) but don't get it if you think your getting an upgrade in quality...you're not, you're actually downgrading.  I'm deeply disappointed and very disturbed by this trashy release of a very good film.

Shame on you Warner Brothers.  You ruined a Great Film.