While zombie pictures had been around for a while, George A. Romero changed things forever in 1968 with this classic horror film.  Produced on a shoestring budget with unknown actors, he brought a new gory, visceral texture to the genre.  The movie opens with a brother and sister travelling from the city to rural Pennsylvania to place flowers on their father's grave.  A lumbering man with dead eyes approaches and the fun begins.

As her brother is killed, Barbara (Judith O'Dea) manages to escape to a farm house.  Shortly a man drives up in a pick-up truck.  Ben (Duane Jones) is also looking for safety.  He manages to board up the house using tools and wood found inside the house.  Barbara goes insane after her confrontation earlier which isn't helped when she finds a partially eaten housewife upstairs.  They are then joined by a couple and their young...and bitten...daughter along with another young couple.  They had taken refuge in the cellar but finally emerge after hearing a radio.

All the performances are, well, terrible with the exception of Jones as the hero.  Although his race is never mentioned in the film, it was controversial at the time.  Here is this good looking black guy saving the ass of the white whiners.  Pretty ballsy casting by Romero.  The zombies in this early film, unlike some of the more modern epics, are slow, clumsy, stupid and easily killed, "kill the brain, you kill the ghoul" (they are never called zombies).  Even though it is cheaply made, there is a certain legitimate dread watching it.  And if you saw it in 1968, you remembered it for a long time.  Still it really isn't very good; but it is a game changing horror classic and certainly worth watching.

There are numerous video versions of the same film and some are pretty bad transfers.  I saw this on "Millennium Edition" DVD which is THX certified and produced by Elite Entertainment.  The film looks good in its original black and white and 1:33:1 aspect ratio.  You have a choice of original mono or Dolby Digital 5.1 surround.