The classical drama "Pretty Woman", directed by Garry Marshall and with actor Richard Gere (Edward Lewis) and actress Julia Roberts (Vivian Ward) was really hilarious.  Julia Roberts won Best Actress in 1990 at the Academy Awards and Best Actress in 1991 at the Golden Globe for her performance in this move.  I can see why! Julia Roberts with her beautiful smile was a wonderful actor in her role as a prostitute and then portraying a woman who is of class and wealth.  She really gave herself away when she walked in those high heels though and her talk. 
Edward Lewis is rich businessman who recently broke up with his girlfriend.  Edward is in Los Angeles on business and he gets lost on his way to Beverly Hills Hotel.  He gets acquainted with Vivian (Julia Roberts) when he stops to ask for directions on Hollywood Boulevard. Vivian is prostitute and she thinks he is looking for some action.  She gets in the car to show Edward to Beverly Hills Hotel.  After she spends the night in his room, he asks her to stay the week and how much it will cost him for her to stay.  Edward needs Vivian to escort to the rich parties so he gives he money to purchase clothes to wear.  This is a once in lifetime opportunity for Vivian as her and Edward is from two different worlds.
Edward begins to see that Vivian is more than just a prostitute, that she is beautiful, fun to be around and that she makes him feel like a better person.  However, Vivian has to deal with Phil (Jason Alexander) a co-worker of Edward's who keeps reminding her of her past and that this relationship will never work.  Vivian is given a chance to start her life all over again and not have to live on the streets to make ends meet.
I love movies with Richard Gere he is so handsome.  And Julia Roberts is just beautiful I cannot think of any other person who could have played pretty woman in this movie.  I give this movie 4 star for romance and comedy mixed together.  It kept me laughing and yet the romantic part is every woman's dream.  I just hope young women do not look at this movie and think that being a prostitute is okay way of life and that this could happen to them.