received such high marks.  As compared to many other of the animated films I have seen (Shrek, Toy Story, Monsters, Inc., Finding Nemo, The Incredibles), I found the characters in this movie to be less than compelling and frankly, the execution of what had the makings of a great storyline was a bit lame.  Yes, there were a few chuckle moments, but that was it.

The premise of the movie is simple.  3 different animals (Depressed, sardonic Mastadon, airheaded Sloth, vicious Sabre Toothed Tiger) rescue a baby whose mother has just died.  The dimwitted Sloth insists that the baby be returned to its tribe.  Initially, the Sabre Toothed Tiger (voiced convincingly by Dennis Leary) is on a mission to steal the baby and return it to his pride so they may eat it alive - its father killed several of the Sabre Toothed Tiger Tribe.  Leading the Mastadon and the Sloth into a trap, the Sabre Toothed Tiger is eventually won over by the friendship and trust that develops as they try to outrun the ever advancing Ice Age while defending the baby from a host of threats.  At the last moment, the Sabre Toothed Tiger breaks down and tells the Sloth and the Mastadon that they are about to be devoured by the pride and they escape to safely deliver the baby to its grateful father.  The premise holds so much promise, but the movie simply did not deliver.

I will say this.  If you own a nice TV and a fantastic sound system (I have a plasma and an AWESOME Paradigm Surround System), there are WOW moments in the movie.  The opening scene contains extended "ice cracking" (think glaciers breaking apart) and is awesome when viewed over a proper system.  There's just not enough of the WOW technology moments to make up for a very average script.

I also found the THX Calibration Feature to be helpful.  Basically, it runs you through a series of tests to ensure that your system is at an optimal setting.

Is this movie a standard bearer for animated films?  No.  But if you're an animated film lover, it's a decent way to spend an evening.