It's not every day that you see a film with an all British cast. Since the 1981 Ocasr winning film Chariots Of Fire, the audience in the United States did not see a remarkable film from the United Kingdom Of Great Britian for some time. When The Bounty hit the big screen in 1984, the long wait had ended. And this film would go down in history as the best and most accurate adaptation of the historical mutiny.
Filmed on location in New Zealand, Polynesia, London, and at Pinewood Studios in England, Roger Donaldson definately put the material he had been given to very good use. Robert Bolt, who wrote the screenplay also did his research well. With such leading actors as Mel Gibson, Sir Anthony Hopkins, the late Sir Lawrence Olivier, Daniel Day Lewis, Liam Neeson, and countless others...this film was a box office winner. The cinema-photography was very sharp and beautiful, and the native women in the film, just as beautiful, native, scintillating, and sexy. Even the nudity of the women was in good taste.
Hopkins delivers an Oscar winning perfomance as Captain William Bligh, as does Mel Gibson in his role as First mate Fletcher Christian. Both actors from Wales and Austrailia portray the characters as human beings with very human faults. There is no villian or hero in this version. It boils down to faults on both sides. Both Bligh and Christian. Liam Neeson gives an excellent portrayal of Charles Churchill, a very scrappy seaman with an explosive force of nature. And Daniel Day Lewis gives a very hateful and sneaky performance as the ill fated John Friar. A character who gets the fate that he deserves in the end.
From an historical point of view, the film was right on the mark. That also includes the sets, costume designs, and other factual parts of the film. Most of all Vangelis's musical score for the film is just as beautiful as his score was for Chariots Of Fire and Blade Runner.
If you enjoy history, fine acting from the ebst in the United Kingdom, and other certain aspects, I would recommend this version of the mutiny on the bounty. It is beautiful, haunting, explosive, and powerful on all levels of cinema.