"Self-acceptance, in my opinion, is the highest practice in yoga."  This enlightened philosophy permeates through Sara's courses.
The New York Times reported on research confirming that self-compassion leads to greater happiness and less anxiety, see "Go Easy on Yourself, a New Wave of Research Urges" on 2/28/11.  The logical implications if followed would mean that if we are more accepting of our own imperfections and mistakes and know that we are stretching to improve (sorry I couldn't resist), we would be more accepting, less afraid, less judgmental and less jealous of others.  "If you fall down [during balance poses or life], just laugh at yourself and get right back up".

These 20 minute videos are perfect for doing in the morning before work and they offer something different every day.  As Blaise Pascal wrote "I made this letter longer than usual because I lack the time to make it shorter".  One can tell that Sara crafted these  routines in a very precise and well balanced manner.  I have been practicing yoga for 14 years and I find Disk 1 to be a masterpiece, with a perfect synchronicity of breath and movement, downward dogs and upward dogs, warrior and reverse warrior, plank poses and more.
Yoga is not a competition.  As Sara says "No one cares if you are all the way down."  For beginners don't worry about getting the poses exactly right, just "concentrate on breathing and moving together".

One word of warning, it is nearly impossible to resume watching in-studio DVDs after using this series.  It was filmed in Hawaii with gorgeous views of sailboats, gentle crashing surf, palm trees swaying in the breeze, and the occasional bird or two hopping around the green grass in the background.  Life is simply better outdoors.  The video is expertly done using many different camera angles with nice transitions.  One downside is that you have to fast forward through the DVD introduction on each of the five workouts, as the chapter points do not match up.  As other reviewers have noted, Sara's style is very down to earth.  She really shines at the end of each practice when she thanks you for joining her.  Add it to your cart and when it arrives it may even bring a little smile to your face :)
Namaste!