Juzo Itami's 1987 film Tampopo stands out in my mind as one of the most original films I have ever seen.  Taking as its subject food, specifically noodles, Tampopo parodies every genre of film, modern Japanese culture, ancient Japanese culture, American culture, and a score of other things while all the time maintaining a playful comedy and an adherence to its general theme of food.  On top of this all, the film even manages to make a rather profound philosophical statement about the ubiquity and centrality of food in human existence, and yet it does so in such a playful manner that the realization emerges only on a subconscious level.

 Tampopo establishes its surreal atmosphere immediately by opening in a theatre, where a well-dressed gangster assumes the role of narrator, and ruminates on the idea that at the end of a human life we experience our past as a short film.  This idea of a story within a story dominates the film.  Rather than running as a unified whole, Tampopo jumps, without transition normally, from one short vignette to another, though the story of Tampopo, a widow struggling to run a successful noodle shop, becomes the central narrative.  This disunity produces the effect of finding food everywhere.  We find refined connoisseurs in the most unlikely of places: a group of vagabonds decanting French wine and a bumbling businessman with a thorough knowledge of French cuisine.  Similarly, we see food playing a role in the most unlikely circumstances: the need to make dinner brings a mother to life for a minute before finally dying; a couple passes an egg back and forth between each other's mouths in a sexual ecstasy until the yolk finally breaks in an orgasmic climax.

 Food in Tampopo attains the ability to fulfill all moods.  Thus the film makes a point of parodying all genres of film, happily marrying Tampopo's central concerns of cinema and nourishment.  Music often clues the viewer in as to which genre each vignette aims.  Over the course of the film, we hear the ragtime airs of a Charlie Chaplin style-vaudeville, the dreamy flourishes of a cheesy romance, the carousel music of a children's film, and the dead silence of a stark thriller.

 As you can tell, when one discusses Tampopo, you realize the need for lists in order to make the film intelligible.  This peculiar need arises from the fact that the film is less a story and more a montage of clich&eacute; images arranged and juxtaposed in such a manner to make them all seem ridiculous, but also humorous and in fact a little touching.  As I have said before, the glue that binds each of these images together is the food that inspires them.  At times food seems like the excuse for a farce, as when two rival noodle houses break into a fight over the quality of each gang's respective noodles.  Here food is injected into the story to make the cinematic genre it parodies a joke.  Similarly, at the death of the narrator, his loving words of final farewell concern eating wild boar in winter.

Yet at other times in Tampopo, the film depicts food as it is used in real life, but injects a genre instead, and thus makes our use of food seem ridiculous, as when a Japanese class in eating spaghetti is interrupted by the loud slurping of a fat Westerner.  Here the joke is not at the expense of cinema, but at the expense of society.  This social criticism applies to both the modern time (as in the example I just mentioned), but also goes back to the past, as when an old man in a modern restaurant explains the traditional way to eat, and his austerity in a modern context seems ludicrous.  In all these examples of seemingly inappropriate juxtaposition, arbitrarily inserting food into the story puts the subject into an unfamiliar perspective, and thereby makes it ridiculous and funny, but good-natured and light-hearted all the same.

Tampopo is a difficult film to describe, because of its unique originality.  So perhaps to express it best, a metaphor is needed.  As when the film ends with a baby sucking on its mother's breast, so too is the film full of life, nourishing, and sure to leave a smile on your face and feeling very young.