What I have gathered from reading a number of these reviews is that many of the film's viewers have not read "The Rules of Attraction" by Bret Easton Ellis. First off, here's a little background on the novel:
The novel consists of mainly Sean, Paul, and Lauren; plus Victor, Mitchell, Judy (Lara is her name in the movie; I'm not sure why it was changed), and a number of other characters, who aren't featured in the movie. The novel takes place at Camden, a small liberal arts college where the students' mindless self-indulgence reigns supreme over their pursuit of knowledge. The book is a satirical look at the hedonism of college, but with much truth behind it as well. What makes the book interesting is that chapters are repeated, but, for instance, Sean will tell his side of the what happens in one chapter and Paul will tell his side in the next. For example, at a noisy party, during Sean's chapter, the keg goes dry and Sean complains and says he wants to get a case of beer, and that he'll buy. In Paul's chapter, however, he thinks Sean says they should get a quesadilla, and that he's bi. Case of beer=quesadilla; buy=bi; you get the idea. This whole ordeal makes Paul excited that the two will be going on a date, whereas Sean thinks nothing of it, except that he still wants beer. Each chapter begins with a character's name, and what they have to say about the scenarios they are a part of. Now on to the movie:
The movie illusrates the book's multi-perspective aspect with a few split-screen scenes, which doesn't translate perfectly, but are interesting, nonetheless. The main differences between the movie and the novel are that there are key scenes and chapters in the book which are cut out completely.  Then, there are some scenes that are completely made up to make the movie more accessible to those who haven't read the novel.  While I did find this problematic, the acting in the film is phenomenal.  James Van Der Beek really shows that he has transcended the teen heart-throb status that "Dawson's Creek" plagued him with.  While Sean Bateman is not nearly as slimy and intimidating in the book, nobody could have done a better job translating his character to film as Van Der Beek did. I never thought I would ever say it, but James Van Der Beek really is a great actor. I really enjoyed Kip Pardue (Paul Denton) as well.  Paul actually got on my nerves a little in the book, but Pardue does a great job of exemplifying Paul's selfish, cynical, yet humorous attitude toward everything. While the movie isn't set in the 80s like the book is, Roger Avary did a wonderful job of creating what I pictured was going on in the novel.
I don't want to give too much away from either text, but if you truly want to enjoy "The Rules of Attraction" in film format, I highly suggest you read the book first. It's like an instruction booklet and a model airplane: if you don't read the instructions, you won't be able to figure out what to do. But if you do read them, it will make a lot more sense.