Warning - Movie Spoilers

There are numerous villains in this film who are joined together by the prospect of money to end a man's life.  The plot is unique and twisted and the actors were all very good.  However, the script left too many unanswered questions.  The idea of a drunken anesthesiologist (last minute stand in not involved in the murder plot) not properly anesthetizing a patient so the patient feels pain is scary as hell. My eyes were closed at the first cut as I couldn't watch.  He is so drunk, he doesn't even see his patient is awake and crying. Diabolical is the only word to describe the wife, best friend surgeon and other operating room staff involved in murdering a man undergoing a heart transplant.  The ending was both satisfying (they got theirs) and sad.  The love between mother and son was tremendous.

That said, the movie script left many unanswered questions.

1) Was the anesthesiologist ever caught for being drunk on duty?  Although he helped police locate the villains inside the hospital, he still tortured a patient.

2) As Clay is laying on an operating table with no heart inside his chest and a bypass machine pumping his blood, anesthesiologist Dr Lupin asked Clay's mother for permission to stop life support.  Clay was married to Samantha so legally wouldn't his wife make the decision to turn off life support?  Since Sam wanted Clay dead, she would have agreed--end of movie script.  The mother could only have filed court papers to stop Samantha but that would have taken more time than Clay had.

3) When was life support actually turned off and how long can someone live without a heart and did the script push this time-line too far?  Two people Dr Harper (Clay's surgeon friend) and anesthesiologist Dr Lupin tell Lilith her son didn't make it.  Dr Harper then goes back to the operating room where viewers can clearly hear the whirring life support machines and says "its done".  He never got permission to stop life support because he never asked.  The anesthesiologist Dr. Lupin stays with mom Lilith and asks her permission to turn off the bypass machine which Lilith never agrees to.  Dr Lupin says he will wait in the hallway (for her decision) and Lilith goes to the cafeteria.  Dr Lupin sees this and waits a bit and approaches her again and she is dead.  The movie never shows Dr Lupin going back to the operating room so the bypass machines should not have been turned off.  Yet, when Dr Jonathon Neyer, the good cardiologist surgeon, gets to the operating room to perform a 2nd heart transplant from mother to son, the heart/lung machine noises are NOT heard. The patients face is covered.  It took awhile for the mother to figure out the scheme/take pills/die and for Dr Neyer to arrive.  How long can a patient live without a heart and did the movie script push it?

4) Was Clay's mother's heart even salvageable?  Clay suffered from a heart disorder (currently) and asthma (as a child).  I did not recognize the names of the medication Samantha reeled off to Lilith when the bottles fell out of her purse onto the hospital floor but if Clay's mother overdosed on Clay's heart medication, wouldn't that make her heart contaminated?  If she overdosed on asthma medication, would this make her heart unusable?

5) To avoid any contamination wouldn't it be more logical for the script to have Lilith slit her wrists in a closet or something rather than take a bunch of pills out in an open cafeteria where she could have been seen and her heart possibly contaminated?  Lilith called Dr Nayer and told him of the murder plot and to use her heart for her son.  It just seems the script could have been a bit better addressing this issue.

Even with these unanswered questions swirling around the script itself, it was still an excellent unique plot beginning to end and the actors were all very good.