Cate Blanchett's performance is as stunning as the historical trashing of the much beloved Virgin Queen Elizabeth. Undeniably, it is another defilement of a great historical leader that rallied her forces to keep  England a sovereign nation and the richest nation on earth at the time.  Nothing in this film, except the lurid and languorous travails of Hollywood  scriptwriters who cannot present something worthy to a public only  interested in steamy sexuality, is close to the truth. Elizabeth was a  bold, visionistic, and cunning woman married to her people and a staunch  defender of the realm. The American public's appetite for sexual impurity  in cinema is obvious since we only see a woman naked every fifteen or  twenty minutes. Exactly what does the sexual perversities of this age have  to do with a great Monarch? Absolutely nothing. No offence to Amazon.com  but this trash deserves no treatment except extreme disgust by the ignorant  to glory in its travesty of inaccuracies. I am incredibly surprised to see  Sir Richard Attenborough take part in making this debauchery of film. He  should know better and the American public's appetite for trashing cinema  has gone to far. Soon we will be parading Mary Poppins as a cavorting  w***e... Elizabethian history suggests ABSOLUTELY no substance to the  audacious claims she was a wild young woman before dedicating herself  completely to the throne. Only Sir Francis Drake (I believe) may have been  an actual lover. Get real Hollywood and stop trashing people in an Oliver  Stonian tradition just to make some money and satiate the sick lust for sex  of the American public. The film was incredibly well-made but lacks any  authenticity or truth which...is the reason we make such films in the first  place. Watch Elizabeth R for some real truth and a piece of history.  Otherwise, just watch this for erotica or, should I say, cheap and tawdry  sex defiling a Queen of Majestic Glory. I'm sure no would do this to a  virtuous woman like Mary Todd Lincoln. Well, perhaps.....
Cameron  Xavierra Rowe, Chief Executive Officer,  Crescent Moon Productions