Ardent Kevin Smith fans have grown to fall in love with the existential foul-mouthed stoner, Jay (Jason Mewes), and his "heterosexual life-partner", Silent Bob (Smith), who are seen together in every Smith film. Introduced in Clerks, the two stand expectantly outside a convenience store as if waiting for something to happen. In Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, writer-director Smith's latest film, something finally does. The movie rights to Bluntman and Chronic, the comic inspired by the anti-heroes, have been sold to Miramax without Jay and Bob's prior consent. What's worse, anonymous chatters blast the two stoners on internet forums, making a mockery of their existence. Seeking to put an end to such defamation, the two set off for Hollywood to shut down the production of the movie and stop the rude online commentary in the process. 
Jay and Silent Bob thrust themselves into a grand adventure that places them in a variety of vulgar and hilarious slapstick situations. Jay learns the off-putting tricks of the hitchhiking trade from a vagabond (George Carlin) in an amusing early scene. The scenario only gets more amusing as Jay attempts these tricks on a nun (Carrie Fisher). Other developments along the way find the two attempting to "steal a monkey" so Jay can pursue his amorous feelings for a jewel thief named Justice (Shannon Elizabeth). They later engage in a light-saber battle with a villain played by Mark Hamill, whose name reflects his fighting style and cannot be repeated here. JSBSB also contains countless cameos, in-jokes, and references to earlier Smith films. Thus, it certainly helps to walk into the theater with a background in the Kevin Smith universe. 
JSBSB is impressively manic, but nevertheless consistent in comic tone. Whatever emotional shifts that occur climax in yet another laugh, as in a scene where Justice tells Jay that she loves him and he blatantly propositions her in return. This film is never serious for long. One gets the sense that everyone is having a great time here, and one is helpless not to join in. Smith always generates good performances from his stars, and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, the Duck Soup of Smith films, is no exception. Perhaps the most impressive is Jason Mewes as Jay. 
A scene-stealer since Clerks, Jay is now given a starring role - a risky move that Smith, who runs the comic book store Jay and Silent Bob's Secret Stash alongside Mewes, was willing to take. He knows better than his fans what Mewes can accomplish as an actor. By placing the weight of a film on Jay's shoulders, Smith has provided Mewes with the opportunity to aspire to comic genius. Mewes arguably achieves it, as he rattles off his hilariously crude and witty lines more sharply than any other actor in the film. 
As one may expect from a Smith film, JSBSB is not for everyone. Smith does not intend for his films to be enjoyed by all audiences. JSBSB is uncompromising in its humorous approach to mature subject matter and contains something to offend just about everybody. What sets it apart from Dogma, however, is that Smith does not mean for us to take it seriously. Those who are still chewing on the complex issues raised in Dogma may find solace in the chaotic and relatively harmless mess of this film. It is a consistently hilarious series of misadventures thrown together in a film that further wins the hearts of those who love Smith, and further alienates those who hate him. Love it or hate it, however, it is still hard to stay angry with a film that resurrects Morris Day and the Time.