the wiz, starring diana ross, michael jackson (r.i.p.), nipsey russell (r.i.p.), and ted ross (r.i.p.), was an african-american version of l. frank baum's story 'the wonderful wizard of oz,' not a re-make of the 1939 classic. it had it's own energy, and it's own interpretations of scenery, costuming, and the all-important message of going within to find the answers one seeks. this was apparently lost on the audiences of the times, and didn't do well in the box office.  it takes a more culturally aware mind and heart to appreciate this gem, which showcases some incredible songs 'ease on down the road,' the luther vandross-penned '(can't you feel a) brand new day,' 'believe in yourself,' and the showstopper, 'home.'  although much has been said about ross' age in playing dorothy, keep in mind that this was not a re-make of the original movie, but a re-interpretation of the storybook and the stage play.  dorothy was changed into a shy schoolteacher in search of her sense of self, rather than a little girl on a kansas farmstead. ross does brilliantly and delivers a powerhouse singing and dancing performance. jackson is brilliant as ever as the scarecrow, delivering chaplinesque physical comedy, his own beautiful signature tenor, fluid, funky dance moves, and one of the sweetest performances that reflected so much of his actual personality. comedian nipsey russell brings his sharp wit, showmanship, and surprising sensitivity to the tin man, and ted ross reprises his broadway role as the cowardly lion with a stunning performance of 'i'm a mean ole lion,' and shows off his brilliant stage chops with clever lines, growls and snorts included. the incredible talents of richard pryor, lena horne, theresa merritt, and mabel king round out the performance bill and quincy jones provides the bigger-than-life music production.  this was a movie to be enjoyed for what it was, a feel-good romp through a modernized emerald city that was not supposed to be compared to judy garland and her companions, but appreciated as a slice of african-american artistry.  such a pity that this classic never received the acclaim it so richly deserved.