My Date with Drew

I just finished watching both My Date with Drew and Scoop with and by Woody Allen.  I definitely prefer My Date with Drew even though I am a great fan of Woody Allen.  You could even say that both films are date films, since, as usual, Woody gets to hang around with a vivacious actress, Scarlett Johansson, in this case, and use self-deprecating humor.

The more I think of it, the more parallels do I find between the two films: obviously both involve very funny and talented Jewish men who enjoy putting themselves down in public for a laugh.

Perhaps, since I have seen all of Woody A's films, his act seems a little stale.  He and Scarlett don't seem to click but both are having fun.  The problem is that they are laughing at their characters in Scoop which makes the film seem silly and clearly less original than better films like Radio Days and Purple Rose of Cairo, for example.

My Date with Drew rings true since Brian Herzlinger and his friends spend so much time talking to people who know people in Drew's entourage but have difficulty getting in contact with people who are close to her or even with Drew herself who is tremendously busy.

This is exactly how Hollywood works.  Of course, actors truly experience frustration just trying to survive.  Brian Herzlinger knows how to play the starving, struggling artist perfectly.  He knows how to place himself in front of the camera and worry about his looks, if he should take all the hair off his body, and, most importantly, what he will say to Drew if he actually gets the date.

It reminds me of Jim Carrey in The Truman Show, doing a whole comedy routine in front of the "mirror" as he starts off his day the way he always starts off.

Also, it is comical to hear Brian explain over and over, the rather shallow excuse that he has for making the documentary:  He has had a crush on Drew since around the time she starred in ET.  All the childhood photos he shows of Drew and himself  remind me of the films in which Woody Allen shows flashbacks to his childhood with hilarious results.

Therefore, to conclude, although I see many parallels with some of Woody Allen's films, My Date with Drew  seems real and relevant and is thoroughly enjoyable.