Bill Murray is always a great actor who always performs his roles perfectly.  "Groundhog Day" and "What About Bob?" are just a few examples of the brilliant roles this man is capable of acting.  But "The Man Who Knew Too Little" is extremely well-made, brilliant in every sense of the word.  Wallace Richie goes to London to visit his brother James, who just happens to have a dinner party composed of important people that evening.  Wallie's dimwittedness is demonstrated from the very first moment of his arrival at his brother's house, when he mistakes the maid for his sister-in-law.  "You're a sweet little pocket-rocket!" he exclaims, as he sweeps the woman up in his arms and lifts her off the floor. "I expected an uptight English gal!"

In a desperate attempt to get rid of him for the evening, James sends his brother off to participate in The Theater of Life, a drama in which the participants literally walk of the streets to act in a play, and they are fed their lines by the director and writers as it progresses.  Unfortunately for Wallie (and all of Great Britain), he unknowingly walks into the phone booth after the Theater calls, and receives instead a call from a man who is actually planning to obliterate a conference of ambassadors from around the world at midnight.  Mistaken for a real assassin, Wallace is instructed to find "the girl" in an apartment and to kill her.

Thinking this is actually the Theater of Life (a mistake that triggers loads of clever double entendres throughout the remainder of the film), Wallie proceeds to the building, finds a beautiful girl, and ends up with her for the remainder of the film.

The rest of the movie consists of car chases, shootouts, explosions, and all the other staples of an exciting action flick.  What sets this movie apart, though, is that the titular character is a total doofus who always evades or even outwits his dangerous enemies through sheer stupidity.  Still in the mindset that this is all a play, Wallie winds up destroying his brother's house and most likely his business as well, and....well, I will not write any more in case you actually watch this yourself.  But you will not regret buying it, because it is pure genius.  Bill Murray is top-notch.