Everytime I see another DePalma atrocity and am tempted to write him off  completely, I have to remind myself that he directed DRESSED TO KILL in  1980.  This film is such a wonderful grab-bag of things lyrical, ecstatic,  kitsch, obscene, comic, puerile, and surreal, not to mention that it fuses  so much cinematic grammar into one long piece of sustained music.  Not to  downplay DePalma's expertise at montage, but much of this film's tension  and charisma come from Venetian Pino Donaggio's score - driving, pulsing,  lush and always over the top (inarguably the composer's best moment  alongside his score for "Don't Look Now" in 1973).
Contributing  to this waltz of mayhem is Nancy Allen and Dennis Franz' in-your-face  repartee, the Hardy Boys bond between Allen and Gordon, and moreover, Angie  Dickinson's  sublime portrayal of a middle-aged woman looking for that one  good sexual release, only to be mocked horribly, then wasted by a sinister  cross-dresser(!).  Film and film culture exist within our bigger, even  cosmic, politic, and it's fitting that DRESSED TO KILL - in the summer of  1980 - blended techno-phobia (Dickinson's dismissal of her son's computer  named 'Peter' right before she goes out looking for some good extramarital  sex), a p.o.'d transexual, and the spectre of killer STDs coming back to  haunt, then kill the leading lady!  Mind you this was all on the eve of the  computer explosion while HIV was secretly spinning its lethal web in urban  areas, and Reaganitis was everywhere.  
One must mention the film's  humor, dark and ofttimes adolescent as it is (with dialogue like  "Don't make me be a bad girl" delivered by a cross-dresser).  As  Dickinson lolls about in the museum, cruising a handsome stranger straight  out of an Armani ad circa 1980, she is confronted with a wallsized canvas  of a gorilla, also lolling about and staring back at her. Then she  scribbles "banana" on her list of Things to Do (ha!), and in  three beats, she's winding her way back and forth through the museum on the  tail of that cute phallic object wearing Armani! Moreover, we get to be  cine-sadists as the music AND the stranger toy with her emotions (will she  get picked up or just toyed with and humiliated?). Donnagio's music leads  us through all of her hopes and fears as the Steadicam tracks her through  room after room of paintings in search of Mr. Right.  It's a wonderful,  naughty sequence, with another wicked piece of lyrical business ready to  follow when she finally makes it to her new lover's two-toned Manhattan  budoir.
What's truly Hitchcockian is how DePalma places most of the  villains in the garb of caretakers: psychiatrists and nurses morph into  highly eroticized killing machines; cops have a view of human nature so  jaundiced one wonders why they bother to save anyone; and matronly moms  just want a good afternoon of sex between designer sheets.  Amidst it all,  only a stock-market savvy prostitute hanging out with an asexual  techno-snoop (who weeps over his dead mother for, like, five minutes,  max!!) can save the day! What a fitting comic, capsule of the Reagan-Era  Spirit that was to come!
DRESSED TO KILL is a giddy, sinister, utterly  delightful brew of cinematic hocus-pocus that never loses it magic,  especially on widescreen.  One wishes DePalma could hit this stride again.  Follow-ups like BODY DOUBLE and RAISING CAIN are only echoes of this  pop-trash masterwork.  Crank up the soundtrack and enjoy these 90 minutes  of gothic dementia.  
And heed dePalma's wacky warning: Don't ever get in  the way of anyone who wants their own pair of high heels; they might get  medieval on you.