I was 11 years old when this movie came home to my house from the video store. I asked my Dad to rent STAR WARS...I got THE JAZZ SINGER. It's funny. Dad has been gone now nearly five years and I still watch this one every year on his birthday since he died. It is a film that every time I see it, it takes me back to that Wednesday in the summer when I first heard "America" coming from the screen door in the garage. I had to run in after my Dad repeated the song. From that moment forward I was hooked on this movie...hooked on Neil Diamond. I have seen him in concert 22 times since I saw this film for the first time and it just takes me back to my youth every time I watch it.

First off, Neil Diamond doesn't do a bad job as an actor. It is quite disconcerting that reviewers accused him of playing himself for the sake of releasing music. There is so much about this movie that just speaks to the viewer and shoots from the hip. Let's first discuss the way it was shot. The fuzziness and over-all haze in some shots is great. This especially noticeable when Neil is onstage as Jess Robin in L.A. and Eddie Gibbs walks out of his performance. When Neil looks out at his manager, Molly (played by Lucie Arnaz) for the reason why, she smiles and follows him out. This scene looks different in quality, but still holds up well. The humor is right on the mark and is not too over the top. Catlin Adams is so annoying as his first wife, Rivka, that you are glad by the time she she leaves him. The poor man's life would've been too long otherwise, and Arnaz is great as Molly.

Laurence Olivier is a smart choice to play Neil Diamond's father for the simple reason that Neil's acting around him as his son is more genuine. If you're intimidated by your leading actor, then it really comes off in Neil's scenes with him. Diamond's own nervousness, which he revealed in VH-1's BEHIND THE MUSIC back in 2001 underpins the drama very well between the father/son dynamic. Even with Neil's best friend, Bubba (Franklin Ajaye), the story is fun to watch and the opening number in the film's first five minutes is a very nice homage to Al Jolson when Diamond's Jess Robin dons black face to cover for a back-up singer who was arrested for stealing a car.

It's the soundtrack that makes this film work well, too. America, Hello Again, Love On the Rocks, Songs of Life, Amazed & Confused, and even You Baby, Hey Louise and On the Robert E. Lee from the party celebrating of all things, a firing, still hold up nearly 32 years after they were written...something Neil Diamond always manages to do well. All his songs hold up through the years and this film and its 9-time platinum soundtrack are no exception. Crank up the audio when he kicks the power into high gear in the finale of America. It has a strong bass track, great lyrics and his experienced band sure bring this song, as well as this movie to life.

My Dad was right to bring this home 30 years ago. I just wish we could watch it together on his birthday. But now, I watch it for him. Thank you Dad for giving me the gift of Neil Diamond's movie and music when I was 11. Don't leave this planet without watching this movie at least once. It's a true classic in every sense of the word!