"Zulu" reworks the story of the Battle of Rorke's Drift in 1879. A small force of British soldiers held off a much greater number of Zulu warriors, and in the process earned the largest number of Victoria Cross medals ever awarded for a single action.

I have watched this movie a number of times, on TV and on VHS. Blu-ray is much, much better (I have not seen it on standard DVD, though). I recommend it as a great war film. As history, it is Hollywood. If it weren't so deficient in that respect I would give it five stars.

The scenery, and the photography in general, are breathtaking. The Zulus are portrayed with respect, by Zulu actors. The British are mostly realistic army types, individuals with complex motives and not a few "characters". (I am partial to Nigel Green as Colour Sergeant Frank Bourne, although as portrayed he is mostly fictional.) Two scenes are as stirring as anything I have seen in cinema; the defenders responding to Zulu chanting by singing "Men of Harlech"; and, the Zulu salute to the British before they abandon the siege for good. Unfortunately, neither actually happened.

There are other significant historical inaccuracies, some of which are central to the plot. A representative few:  The actual defenders of Rorke's Drift were not predominately Welsh (32 of the 97 whose nationalities are known). "Men of Harlech" was not even the regimental song at the time, it was "The Warwickshire Lad". British casualties were caused by gunfire, not the Zulu iklwa (short spear); however, the attackers could not have had rifles captured at Isandlwana, although they did have older firearms. There was no conflict between Lieutenants Chard and Bromhead over command, Chard was formally left in charge by their superior. Lastly, most of the key characters are the victims of artistic license, in some cases altered beyond recognition. That includes Bourne, who was actually the youngest colour sergeant in the army and short. The missionary Witt resembles the real man only in name and occupation. Private Hooks' daughters famously stalked out of the preview in 1964, because their father was filmed as a drunken malingerer when the actual Hook was a teetotaler and a model soldier.

The movie is rated PG (2008). I would not show it to a child under 10, but by today's standards it is pretty tame. There is a lot of violence, of a sanitized variety common in early 1960s films. Women dance bare breasted in a Zulu mass wedding. The missionary Otto Witt remarks to his (fictional) buttoned-up adult daughter that it is something she needs to get used to if she is to stay in Africa.