My perception of the film was greatly influenced by the close familiarity with Pushkin's novel-in-verse I've acquired through numerous readings of  the text both in Russian (my native tongue) and in several English  translations.  Thus, (nitpicking?)comparsion of the cinematographic version  to the literary original was pretty inevitable as I watched the film.  I'm  surprised by all the positive reviews I see here for I think that this  movie is simply pathetic and laughable.  Its portrayal of the characters,  the times, the themes is grossly inadequate.  Most importantly, it  completely misses the mood (or, rather, the many moods) of the novel.  Too  many of the interpretations on the part of the director and actors are  preposterous, and - worst of all - one-sided.  The vapid Liv Tyler is  entirely unfit for the role of passionate Tatyana, and, as a result, her  performance is a miserable failure.  For one, Tatyana wouldn't be caught  dead singing cheesy Russian romance songs.  Fiennes as Onegin doesn't  deliver either.  The duel scene, while visually impressive, is painfully  out-of-place and overdramatized.  The very atmosphere of the film is  ridiculously misrepresented...
Although I couldn't keep a sardonic grin  away practically for the entire duration of the movie, I realize that I may  be misjudging the value of the film and the achievements of the filmmakers  because of my preconcevied ideas of what "Onegin" should be on  screen or on stage.  Undoubtedly, attempting to render an authentic  portrayal of the work that serves (almost unarguably) as the foundation of  modern Russian literature and trying to depict with accuracy the most  renowned (anti)hero of Russian literature - Onegin - is a great  (unsurmountable?) challenge.  Does that mean that any attempt should be met  with admiration nevertheless? I'm still trying to decide.
The film  suffered from the incredible hype that preceded its premiere because it did  not live up to the expectations of most who impatiently awaited its  release.