Dirty Dancing was one of those movies that defined 80's cinema.  It was a 'sleeper' hit.  It didn't get much promotion from the studio.  It's promotion came from word of mouth.  People saw the movie, loved it, and told their friends to see it.  This movie made such an impact that it caused people to attend dancing lessons in droves, spawned to best-selling sound tracks, spawned a short-lived TV show, and spawned a Broadway musical.  Dirty Dancing still has an extremely loyal following which coused the studio to release a rehash of the plot a couple years ago called Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights.  The original movie is much better both in storyline and acting.  Don't let the rehash of the plot dissuade you from seeing the original.  You won't be disappointed.

Dirty Dancing is a wonderful coming-of-age story.  Baby(Jennifer Grey) is vacationing in the Catskills with her family the summer before she starts college.  She soon meets Johnny Castle(Patrick Swayze) who is the dance instructor at the resort they are staying at.  After a somewhat rocky start, she and Johnny begin an illicit love affair.  They are both risking alot by being together.  Johnny is risking his job, and Baby is risking losing the respect of her father who has trouble seeing that being poorer doesn't necessarily mean being less worthy.  This movie has a wonderful climax that will make you smile every time.  It will make you feel as Johnny put it that 'there are people willing to stand up for you no matter what it costs them.'  Just a great movie with some wonderful messages throughout.

I also enjoyed the extras that were available on this DVD.  Some of the extras included were an interesting interview with Jennifer Grey and a video of her try-out for the movie.  I enjoyed the extras, but they are probably only something mega-fans would ever watch.

And to the person below who gave Dirty Dancing one star because it was a 'rip-off' of Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights and even 'stole' the title.  Hun, Dirty Dancing came out almost 20 years ago.  Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights came out like 2 years ago.  Dirty Dancing was the original...and better movie.  Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights was supposed to be a 'remake' of the original movie only set in Cuba instead of the Catskills.  So it would be the 'rip-off' not the original *rolls eyes*