As a non-comic book junkie I've enjoyed both the previous entries in this franchise mainly because they're not like typical Comic-book movie adaptations, their darkness and emotional depth give them an adult edge beyond the usual adolescent thrill factor. Sadly Blade 3 secumbs to this in spades. The opening monologue is an indication of how 'seen it all before' the movies will quickly become. Despite an intriguing first scene in the Iraqi Desert soon Wesley Snipes is reduced to trying to keep the dignity of his character intact in the face of monotonous and unfunny wise-cracking from Ryan Reynolds and attractive-but-bland Jessica Biel. I did wonder if a new element might be injected via a possible sense of dependence between Blade and the small girl character but she was quickly side-lined. Swearing seems omnipresent but frankly serves to underline how much difficulty the makers seem to have generating fresh genuine dialogue. Odd non-sensical touches made me feel the makers had only been paying half-attention to what they were creating, for example an experienced warrior like Abigail Whistler goes into battle plugged into her MP3 rather than with unimpeded hearing, which might save her and her comrades lives. At the source of the Army of Darkness this time  there was Dominic Purcell, not a bad actor but far too limited in both charisma and depth for a character of Dracula's stature. The monologue at the start refers to old Hammer Dracula movies and having Christopher Lee in his prime opposite Blade would have injected a much needed adrenaline rush. Aside from a one-line moment on the roof-tops with Snipes, Purcell's Vampiric WMD seems like a male stripper for most of it. "Drake's" dialogue seems bland as well,given that his 'retirement' to the Syrian Desert is supposed to underline his superiority to modern human culture. Kris Kristofferson also checks out for the second time and, after the power of his previous 'death' in part one, this time it seems like a very hurried and half-hearted exit. Visually it has it's moments, and capable actors like Parker Posey struggle on gamely but I find myself hoping that if there is a Blade 4, Blade himself is allowed to take center stage again rather than being relegated to almost a supporting role. The director of Blade 3, rather like George Lucas in recent years, has a strong visual sense but no substantial grasp of actors, dialogue or how to build real emotional depth.