Rob Reiner's 1990 adaption of Stephen King's Misery is a film that works for various reasons, a few of which I will touch on here. The most obvious reason is of course the Oscar winning performance of Kathy Bates, as nut job Annie Wilkes. Playing a dangerous psycho as opposed to just another straight person is already the actors equivalent of being a peacock in a room full of pigeons, but it is all the more stricking here because both Kathy Bates and Rob Reiner are entirely on the same page, that is to say, they both seem to understand precisely what makes Annie Wilkes tick, and what makes the movie tick for that matter. You can look at this movie as simply the story of a misfortunate man at the mercy of a monster, who in the end, must truimph over this monster by killing it, or you could see it in a more darkly subversive light.

  The darker subversive light to this story, is to see it as a tragic love affair. It can be seen as a story in which a delusional person ( Annie Wilkes ) thinks that the object of her desire is something more then an ordinary man, so she built him into a God that should be placed on an alter, high on a pedestal. Just like some kind of childlike innocent, her admiration of him is of the most idealistic variety, and seems to be platonic and almsot spiritually based. She spends most of the film wallowing in a sort of self made torment of keeping her love object at arms lenth, where instead of culminating her true bodily cravings, she instead idolizes and worships her object while living forever in her own little fantasy dream world that has no place for such lewd lascivious base hungers. The problem here is that these types of feelings are what normally hits a young shy teen boy durring his first ever crush, not a grown woman facing middle age. Every action Annie Wilkes takes is to abstain from the unavoidable culmination of their eventual coitus, thus when the act of sex finally happens, it is explosive, volatile, and violent, it shatters her delusional bubble. The subversive sex act itself involves blood, fire, biting, beating, the climactic firing of her viral maleness, and some extremely raunchy sex talk, in fact, it is the first time Annie Wilkes uses real adult language rather then her amusing "Cock-a-doo-dee" speak. Not to be outdone by Annie Wilkes sudden sexually charged emergence, Paul Sheldon ( James Caan ), her love object shoves burning paper into her mouth and yells the movies most memorable line " HERE YOU WANT IT?! EAT IT!! EAT IT TILL YOU CHOKE YOU SICK TWISTED.....!" Yes, the sex talk gets down right dirty and full of imaginative urgent energy. The action finally ends with the two of them lying side by side on the hard wood floor, a hitherto never before seen look of fullfillment etched on her burnt and bloody face, while her love object pants from all the exertion spent to quell this passionate violent act, it would seem that the only thing missing is that they are not smoking cigarettes.

  Since sex is arguably the main reason we are alive, and is possibly what holds the candle to our very creative energy, it is hard not to see this film play out in this more subversive way. I feel that both Kathy Bates and Rob Reiner captured this aspect of both Annie Wilkes and the film perfectly and deliberately. On a sidenote, I think Annie Wilkes is the male in this twisted realationship, capable of giving her object a nice firemans carry with sturdy vigor.

  The others aspect of this film to point out is the concise stream-lined direction by Rob Reiner which makes viewing this film such a pleasure. Each scene is just the right size and has just the right amount of spice to keep things moving, seemingly without effort. Maybe I am becoming old and refined in my ways, but I can't stress enough the importance of not overdoing something, and keeping things singular and simplistic in nature. The bad aspect is that once again writer Stephen King has taken an existing movie, in this case its "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane" 1962, and passed it off as his own inspired ideas. His plagiarizing continued with other such works as TommyKnockers, ( Five Million Years to Earth 1968 ) and Christine, ( The Car 1977 ) , but its hardly a knock on Misery, which holds its own very nicely thanks to aspects that were picked out in the acting and directing.

  Misery is a good bit of entertainment to keep in your collection, and a very affordable and abundant movie to find, at least untill they release a 20th anniversary addition or something, full of extras the current release does not have.