First off, I would like to dispense with the idea of summarizing the action of this movie, 1) because its brevity doesn't allow for many hidden plot twists, and 2) I have found that movies in general are a lot better when I know little or nothing about them beforehand.
Secondly, let me go on the record saying I think Soderbergh is the victim of a double standard with regard to this movie. Had it been made by a down-and-out rookie from Belpre and distributed in the accepted fashion, you'd more than likely be reading scores of positive reviews about a sparkling young talent ready and willing to revolutionize American independent cinema as we know it and change the way we look at movies per se. But because this is Steven Soderbergh, who already did that (or something like it) back in the late 80's. Hence the typical reaction I see here accuses him of squandering his financial assets and reputation on "minimalist experiments". A movie is a movie, I say. The notion that Soderbergh should stick to the big leagues and leave these little arthouse pictures to those whose budgets are already very slim strikes me as pointlessly restrictive. I wish there were more big-shot filmmakers out there with enough nerve to return to their humble origins like this.
That being said, it's also worth noting that his aesthetic approach is not unprecedented. The old stay-true-to-life, pure-improvisaton movie has existed in various incarnations at least since John Cassavetes' SHADOWS (1959). Soderbergh's decision to release BUBBLE simultaneously through three different media outlets does not have much significance to me, outside of its being boycotted by certain theaters, which was probably a good thing. It's just too bad they couldn't find a better movie to boycott.
Much as I admire BUBBLE as a movie, I wouldn't go so far as to call it "beautiful". The moments of beauty in it are few and far between, but the fact is they count for far more than whatever approximations of beauty Steven Soderbergh could muster in his big-budget genre productions. 'Nuff said.