Denzel Washington is turning out to be one of the most gifted character actors in film today but he better look out. He does the off-kilter character so well in this film ( and Man on Fire) he need to watch out not to start getting too typecast lest he turn into another Bruce Dern - another fantastic talent. But anyway onto the point of the film.

This was very suspenseful. I think I chewed down 2-3 fingernails during the course of the story. It does require s suspension of disbelief a little but maybe not all that much. I notice some reveiwers say that is too unrealistic to be credible, but you have to do that with any film anyway and no more so in this one.

The always obvious question is whether a particular remake is as good as the first one. I submit that the quesiton is not relevent. I think any film should stand or fall on it's own merits and if you are looking for an edge-of-the-seat thriller well folks this does qualify.

I am not in no way a Meryl Streep fan, but damn,  was her performance fantasic as was Schriebers, but none rose to the level of Washington's. Denzel took the part and ran with it. You could see the paranoia and confusion in his eyes and he communicated the fear, uncertaintly and the moments of revelation so well he didn't even need dialog in most cases. Bravo Denzel!

I though the film was well directed and well scripted. The plot could have been a bit tighter but in order to build suspense on this level it is often required to allow the uncertainty of the story line to invade the presentation. In fact it might be essential since the suspense part works so well in this movie. I though Demme did an excellent job laying it out.

Being a fan of the first movie - I have an old worn out copy on VHS - comparisions are inevitable. I felt thet any compromises and story line changes and up dates were appropriate to the aim of the producers. I like that they now have vehicle to show a wonderful story to a whole new generation or two in an updated  context that they can relate to.

John Voight was as always a welcome addtion to any cast and I am really beginning to really like Vera Farminga ( USA Network Touching Evil ) who played Voight's screen daughter as well as Shaws love interest or as close to love interest as can be in this kind of movie.

It was dark and frightening, and yes suspend some of the logic but also refelct on elements that don't seem to be relevant - they may be on second viewing.

********** Beware - the next paragraph could be a SPOILER *****

I saw one reviewer mentioned the Oedipal unertones of of Senator Prentiss-Shaws relationship with her son. I think that is an important point and key to fully understanding her motivations. With her husband dead suddenly befre he ever had a run at the White House Prentiss-Shaw tranferred that desire-obsession to her son along with a few other desires. Not irrelevant at all in my opinion. In fact I think it explains almost everything. Yes it is subtle, but subtle is often best. Watch it again and look at the non-verbal interaction between the Shaw and his mother. Subtle and intense at the same time.

Anyway for all that I though this film was a worthy remake although probably not as good as the original, but worthy indeed.

I recommend it to any thriller fan or fans wanting to introduce their children to the Mancurian Candidate without the "But, he Chinese are our friends, they'd mever do that", comments.