If you like your Figaros in the tradition of sunny and funny--a kind of age of enlightenment sitcom--run don't walk away from this DVD. You will not like the way they messed with your beloved opera and will be inspired to write a review of outrage right here in this very spot. But if you don't mind being challenged, Harnoncourt's Figaro is definitely worth your while. My first reaction was: "What the?!" There's silent character not written by Da Ponte, Cherubim (Cupid perhaps?), who invisibly yet literally pulls, pushes and manipulates the characters through a feverish, hellacious day in thrall of love. I disliked him at the outset, but he proved to create an apt kind of symbolism for this opera. (It's a delightful moment when he encounters Don Basilio and literally bounces off of him. The man is love-proof.) After a while I entered into the spirit of this production and came to respect and admire it. I mean, when you think about it, Figaro has darkness at its heart. Sexual abuse. Betrayal. Duplicity. Class warfare. Child abduction. Absolutely nobody is happy, except momentarily. Even at the end of the opera, do you really believe the Count will stay true to the Countess? Pull the other one. (He's an oligarch, and oligarchs--as we know well these days--leave destruction in their wakes.) One aspect of this production that I can remember encountering only once before--in Otto Klemperer's unique EMI recording of the late 60s--is its powerful subtext of revolution. When Beaumarchais's play premiered, it was a thunder stroke. The servants smarter than the masters? No great European piece of art had ever dared say such a thing. Harnoncourt's rendition has that quality in spades, and I deeply admire it for that reason. The slow tempos are one of the things that give it that kind of social and human gravity. There are plenty of laugh lines, of course, but this is serious stuff. I certainly wouldn't want to be without lighter, more traditional Figaros. But--as with Shakespeare--there's plenty of room for contrary approaches. And no other Figaros that I'm aware of have been as contrary as this one.