I saw this movie when it first hit the screen in the USA...and couldn't wait until it came out on DVD.  It is one of my favorite movies of all time, and there's much to love about it.  The irrepressible Toto is a little pest, but he befriends the older Alfredo, projectionist at the lone cinema in their Sicilian village, shattered by war and poverty.  Toto observes Alfredo and learns the workings of the projector, loaded with flammable film stock.  A terrible accident leaves Toto in charge, and the movie fast forwards into Toto's teen  years. He falls in love with the beautiful Elena, who is seemingly unattainable.  Her family is wealthy, and Toto's is not.  The young lovers part, never to meet again.  Some other reviewers have missed the point of this movie.  It is about unrequited love, and the bittersweet memories that Toto relives when learning of Alfredo's death, as the film opens.  The final scene, wherein Alfredo's gift to Toto makes the point that love is the thing that makes life worth living... is incredibly powerful.  Without a word, in about 2.5 minutes, the director creates a scene that is already a film classic.
PLOT SPOILER AHEAD
Regarding the so-called "director's cut" that was issued some years after the cinema release. I saw it. It's on the flip side of my DVD.  I hated it so much that I almost gouged that side of the DVD to keep it from ever being played again.  Better to have the film end as it did originally.  To have Toto/Salvatore and Elena reunite later in life is one thing...but to have them getting it on in the back seat of a car  was totally unbelievable and incongruous. A successful and wealthy director would take the love of his life to the nicest hotel in Rome for a rendezvous, he would hardly consummate their relationship like two frumpy middle-aged former lovers would. Heck, most middle aged people would get a room. This scene rang falsely and ruined this version of the film.
STICK WITH THE ORIGINAL THEATRICAL RELEASE!  GET IT, OWN IT AND LOVE IT...  FORGET THE DIRECTOR'S CUT!