This film was the first sequel to the classic "Jaws" and so was inevitably compared to it. However, it is unfair to compare this to the original and not give it a chance on its own merits. I was 11 when I saw "Jaws" and 14 when I saw "Jaws 2". I knew it had been made mostly because the original was so successful, but even at 14 I wanted to see it in part at least, for what it might have to offer. I was not disappointed. Granted, it was not directed by Spielberg, but I think Jeannot Swarc did a more than competent job.
Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gay and Murray Hamilton reprise their roles and give very good performances, as good as in the original film. I thought the shark effects were good. The shark does not look fake.
Maybe they show the shark a little more than Spielberg did, perhaps a bit too much, but the scenes where the shark attacks are well staged and convincing. The water-skiing scene is terrifying; makes you think about skiing on the ocean! Even the much debated helicopter scene. It was well staged and it's pretty scary. I don't think it's implausible with a shark that big, but that's all I will say about that.
I was not bothered by the focus being on Chief Brody's sons and their friends going out on sailboats during most of the movie's second half. What's wrong with that? There is a sort of rivalry between Murray Hamilton's son in the film, Larry Vaughn Jr, and Mike Brody that I thought was interesting and at least rings true. Larry is the rich mayor's son; Mike is the Chief of Police's son who has to work during the summer; both are young, good looking kids, interested in the same pretty girls. The scenes with the boats play into that.
Ok, so maybe Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw are not here, but remember that Shaw's character was killed; Dreyfuss probably had better things to do after winning his Oscar for "Goodbye Girl", or perhaps simply wasn't interested, but I'm thinking, maybe it would be too easy to just bring the Dreyfuss character back. I think it makes at least some sense that this time Brody is on his own. At least he has some idea of what he's dealing with.
As far as the "Jaws" movies that followed this one, all I can say is, if someone thinks "Jaws 2" isn't at least worth watching (and it is a lot more than just worth watching! ), you should see the other ones; (NOT!) both "Jaws III" and "Jaws 4" are awful (Michael Cane missed picking up his first Oscar in person because he was filming "Jaws 4". He was wasted in that film. He should have gone to the Oscars, finished the film, and fired his agent.). Fair warning.
This may not be the "greatest sequel ever made", but like "Damien: Omen II", it is a worthy sequel to a classic film; it has a good cast, good performances, it is well made, it is entertaining, and yes, scary.
This film was released on DVD fairly recently. I already had the laserdisc and it looked nice but I just bought it on DVD. I must say, it really looks great!! The bonus materials are interesting.
As a film collector, I am more than happy to include this film in my library next to its classic predecessor.