I have a bit of a thing for British comedies.  I enjoy various British accents and I have come to learn much of their slang, as well as to get used to their unique brand of humor.  Consequently, I loved this film Snatch.

I watched Snatch before Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels, so I was unaware that Guy Ritchie basically just lazily reused the same concept from that prior film and threw in a couple of variables to make it seem different.  Now that I know, I can't say I honestly care.  Both films are good in their own right, but I think I prefer Snatch.  The "formula" of profane, heavily accented British thugs bantering with each other, and multiple plot-lines criss-crossing into total mayhem at the film's climax, is one that I have no problem seeing twice.

Snatch is a very clever movie.  Guy Ritchie came up with some great ideas on how to make the seemingly separate stories work together in perfect harmony, and managed to kill off nearly all the characters in one way or another, without making the viewer feel too sad about the losses.  The story, despite being rather absurd, is still fairly plausible, considering the ruthlessness of those involved.  Meanwhile, there is some side-splitting humor to be found, considerably more-so than in Lock, Stock... which focused more on dark, subtle comments.  My favorite part is the introduction to Tyrone, the "getaway driver," as he attempts to squeeze himself into a Rover SD1 that is too small for him and then, after Sol and Vinnie discuss the merits of a SPAS-12 shotgun, backs into a van because "I didn't see it there."  I crack up laughing every time I watch that scene.

I also appreciated the film-making at work in Snatch.  The dark, gritty, overprocessed look really suits the dingy back alley settings of an overcast, seedy part of London and the insides of boxing rings.  The various slow-motion and unique angle shots contribute greatly to the feel of the film; the slow-motion shot of Brad Pitt/Mickey seeming to go down for good while boxing, and the waist-level upward shots of Brick Top's henchmen walking down the dimly lit, flickering halls really added a lot, in my opinion.  The soundtrack, as well, is amusing, fitting, and well-timed.  One of my favorite musical parts is the use of Mirwais' "Disco Science" as Tyrone and the hare are simultaneously being run down by gangster thugs and gypsy hunting dogs, respectively.

Overall, Snatch is a great movie, but don't expect to catch it all the first time unless you are really good at reading subtitles and seeing little visual details.  It's a movie that will benefit from several viewings, until you can catch all the vagaries of British slang and mumbling.  Whether or not Guy Ritchie blatantly recycled his "Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels" formula to make this film doesn't matter (and he definitely DID), because it is a gem in its own right (no pun intended....)

Enjoy it!