Okay, I know this is a B-movie &amp; I know your expectations are not supposed to be high with a film like this, especially since it is an early Van Damme flick.
But come on!  There are other movies with martial-arts themes that are well-made &amp; reasonably accurate.  Ever see "Judo Saga?"  How about "The 36th Chamber of Shaolin/Master Killer" from the Shaw Brothers of Hong-Kong?  How about the independent feature "Iron &amp; Silk", which probably cost the same amount to make as "Kickboxer" but was much better made.  For that matter, "An Officer &amp; A Gentleman", a romance movie with Richard Gere &amp; Debra Winger, has excellent martial-arts in it, with Gere &amp; Louis Gosset Jr. going at it with karate.  But "Kickboxer?"  There's not an ounce of heart or sincerity in it!  (However, it is is UNINTENTIONALLY funny at times.) 
On the whole, this movie is just awful!  It's not just because Van Damme can't act.  It's not just because he poses with Shotokan techniques rather than engaging in legitimate choreography.  It's because this movie, supposedly about the sport of Muay Thai, Thailand's national sport &amp; science of self-defense, is portrayed extremely innacurately!  Michel Quissi, who plays the villain "Tong-Po" behaves more like a WWF pro-wrestler than a Muay-Thai boxer.  When real boxers in Thailand meet each other in the ring, they say prayers &amp; exchange gifts before fighting each other.  Yes, there is lots of gambling by the spectators, but respect &amp; honor is utmost between Muay-Thai boxers.  In this movie, however, they brutalize &amp; insult each other before, during, &amp; after the matches!
Thai boxers tend to be very down to Earth &amp; good-natured young men, who fight because it's their job &amp; for some, it's the only way for them to put food on the table.  It's also a source of self-respect &amp; honor, &amp; because of the nature of the sport, many of them retire by the time they're in their mid-twenties.  I've had the honor &amp; priveledge to meet some of them &amp; they are NOTHING like what's portrayed in "Kickboxer."  (I won't even get into the "Thai" names for the characters in this flick.  The writers obviously don't know the difference between Chinese &amp; Thais, since all the "Thais" have Chinese names!  It's like portraying a Spaniard with a German family name!)
Okay, this is low-budget Hollywood film-making at it's basest &amp; they're not doing a serious documentary on the martial-arts or Muay Thai in particular.  But the best of these films have at least the FEELING of truth, with maybe a little bit of exaggeration for entertainment's sake.  This movie, however, goes way beyond "exaggeration."  It actually disgraces what many consider to be the King of Martial-Arts.  Rent the "Karate Kid" instead of this mess.  That movie has a few flaws too, but at least the film-makers for that movie CARED about the subject matter, which is a lot more than can be said for the people behind "Kickboxer."