How many films does it take to establish a genre?

The mockumentary genre was established with one.  This is Spinal Tap.

12 years later Christopher Guest et al., continued with Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show, A Mighty Wind and the soon-to-be-released For Your Consideration.  Guest and friends appear to have a strangle-hold on this micro-genre.  In the midst of these films appears another pearl: Drop Dead Gorgeous.

The format of Drop Dead Gorgeous is similar in most ways to the Guest productions.  Take a small, but intense, population in a specific but accessible situation and go.  The key to these movies is the everyday-ness and approachability of both the material and the characters.  Too zany? Too outrageous? These would chase the audience away.  Instead when these films are at their best they start slowly and gradually get stranger.  In this way Drop Dead Gorgeous is a terrific success.  The first half hour watches like comforatble pants.  It is incredibly easy and pleasant to watch this movie.  It gradually takes us deeper and deeper into this world, as the world gets stranger and stranger.

The performances hold up very well with the material. This is probably Kirsten Dunst's best movie. Cute, bright and sincere.  Dunst can grate pretty badly when she tries too hard, but for her this movie seems effortless.

Denise Richards usually has only one note in her, but here she manages two.  She successfully portrays being vacuous and being angry.  No more is asked of her.  In general she reminds me of Keanu Reeves, they're much better when they're not talking.

The real laughs come from the supporting cast: Ellen Barkin is brilliant as a drunken trailer park momma, Allison Janney is her slutty friend (but I keep imagining CJ Craig in this role and laugh even harder), Kristie Alley is the insane pageant mom living vicarilously through her daughter, Sam McMurray is great as the dopey dad, reliving his role from Raisin Arizona with is Midwestern slant, Brittany Murphy is the most familiar name among the other pageant competitors, Will Sasso plays a developmentally delayed man without regard to political correctness (I laugh despite myself).

There are many reasons to watch this movie.  But if you've enjoyed the way the Guest movies work, this will work well for you.