On the scale of 1 to 5 stars in the category of "First-time filmmakers," Quentin Tarantino scores a solid 5.  My 3-star rating is a subjective one that balances the film's worthiness with my general dislike of movies with excessive brutal violence and adolescent (so-called "adult") language.  Having heard many times how worthy this film is, I decided to give it a go anyway.

I'm glad I did, for several reasons.  For one thing, if one can peek past all the four-letter words, the dialogue is truly excellent.  And, of course, taking into account that this is a world of seedy small-time and mid-level hoods and would-be gangsters, the profanity is necessary.  The words Tarantino gives his characters are as real as you'd expect from any group of overgrown juvenile delinquents, often funny, sometimes unwittingly insightful in character development, and always revealing what a bunch of idiots these saps are.  Those three levels to the dialogue are all on full display when Tarantino himself delivers an opening monologue about the real meaning of Madonna's music, especially "Like a Virgin," and it's a theme that runs through the entire film.

Another thing that becomes brutally evident is that Tarantino doesn't want us to romanticize these guys.  While the opening scene in the diner makes us very familiar with these men in a comfortable way, furthered by the scene that follows while the credits roll, Tarantino then abruptly cuts to a scene of horrifying bloodshed that strips away any glorifying we may have expected to come around the corner.  Throughout the film he cuts back in time to show the warm relationships these mental midgets have shared, the forth in time as they repeatedly reveal themselves to be unworthy of even the slightest sympathy.  Even the two cops involved with the hoods eventually unravel and therefore receive no mercy.

It's a very thoughtful film and very, very well made, especially considering its microscopic budget.  But be forewarned that it's not for the squeamish.  "Reservoir Dogs" fans will be thrilled with the extras on this latest version of the DVD, the title of which simply reflects Tarantino's love of words and combinations thereof, having no connection with the story whatsoever; it's a play on words that includes a reference to an equally gory Sam Peckinpah film called "Straw Dogs."