I saw this movie at the drive in when I was 7 and never forgot it. After a tour with the 82nd Airborne I joined the reserves and served with a Special Forces unit and met men who lived what this movie portrays. I've read reviews that said that this movie ignored politics and remade WW2 and westerns as a VN movie. What movie did they see? The opening scene alone endured this movie to SF veterans. Actor Aldo Ray (WW2 Frogman vet) tells why the US was in VN and dumps a case of ammo on David Jensen's newsman. This movie attacks politics head on. As far as being a remade western, that was the truth of the war, those camps called "fort Appache" or what ever, actually existed. The movie has been called a propoganda film, yet the Special Forces did, as the movie protrays, treat the local population with medical care and the Viet Cong did, as the movie portrays, murder villagers who denied them aid. The movie has cliches but in this case there is truth. One of the problems with this movie is that what made Special Forces in VN so special was still classified and much of the Robin Moore Book that it inspired was outdated for the time the movie portrays. The VC general driving around the jungle in a staff car comes to mind. I call this a great bad movie because there are some unexcuseable flubs in this movie, which one would not expect from a John Wayne major motion picture. Scenes that draw hoots, even from those that love it, are the scene where SGT Provos gets shot in the chest point blank from a 50 Cal and lives long enough to drink a shot with the duke before dying. What trooper wouldn't want to go out like that. The special effects are inferior such as the helicopter crash and some of the pyhrotechs, and let's not forget the poor point man with the plastic metal M16, turns out he didn't need it anyway, as he demonstrated some fine hand to hand moves. Some people complain about the many pine trees in the film, I've never been to VN but I've been to Okinawa and I saw a lot of pine trees there so I'll let that go. 
This film shows strong Americans helping the weak and that was the truth. Many laugh that in the final scene the sun sets over the ocean which is on the east coast in VN. That's okay because THEIR BASE WAS ON A SMALL PENINSULIA.