A man approaches a woman.  He tells her of a past liaison they've had but can't recall all the details.  She has no memory of this past.  The scene is repeated in a different setting, sometimes the garden, sometimes a corridor or the dining room, but always at the hotel where they are staying.  Every time they see each other additional details of this possible affair are provided but we're never sure of their veracity.  Occasionally a second man, who might be the woman's husband, is with her.  Sometimes the men are at a table playing a variety of games, one of which initially seems without rules and which a beginner can never win, according to the speculation we overhear in the background (later we overhear that a beginner always wins but this is never demonstrated).

Each shot is very carefully composed.  Often the only movement is the camera's as it slowly glides between the actors, who are frequently motionless, resembling well-dressed mannequins. The effect is like moving through a photograph, unpacking the details of a moment in time.

Is it all a dream?  Is the man's account of the past true?  Is he manipulating the woman or is she just pretending that she can't remember any of his stories?

TimeOut's annual film guide describes the film as "either some sort of masterpiece or meaningless twaddle."  The film requires patience to sit through.  It seems to have a language of its own and how you judge it  will partly depend on the effort you are willing to exert to learn this language.  Time, memory, perception - all are manipulated in the film, preventing the formation of a solid foothold for understanding and suggesting that the process of cognition is the film's true subject. Through both its use of the medium and choice of subject matter, Last Year at Marienbad pushed the boundaries of cinema to another level. It is an important viewing experience in the education of a film lover.

Interestingly, the film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay - something that seems unthinkable in the artistically conservative climate of today's mainstream.