I loved the book so much I read it twice, long before the film came out. While reading I had a very definitive picture in my mind of the characters.

Robert Pattinson did a great job of portraying Jacob. It's the Depression, but Jacob is a Cornell student studying to be a vet and is pretty unaware of the hardship seen in most places throughout the country. All of this is taken away from him when his parents are killed in an accident. When the veil is lifted from his eyes, he decides to ride the rails and ultimately begins to work for the circus. Pattinson does a great job of showing Jacob's youthful ignorance and caring devotion to the animals he works with (as well as some people).

Christopher Waltz was really a little older than I would have expected August to be. As a previous reviewer stated, I also expected him to be darker. However, even though Waltz was not what I expected, he played the part better than I would have imagined others to. He does a great insanely evil.

It's Reese that really got me. Reese Witherspoon always appears so pure and innocent, somewhat subdued. I had always imagined Marlena to have a little more vim and vigor than Reese ever portrayed. She was always in the background, when Marlena really should be front and center. There was nothing truly captivating about her, nothing to inspire Jacob's obsession: she really played up the damsel-in-distress. Rosie, too, is left to the background. Her story is never truly developed the way it is in the novel. After all, she really is the focal point.

The big picture of the novel is the gritty, depressing, yet wonderfully mysterious life of the Depression-era circus, but the film skipped over much of the grit. Sure, there were a few moments where August lost control or Jacob had to shovel some manure, even a few abandoned circuses even. But for the whole picture, you'll have to read the book.

**To sum it up, the film was a pretty accurate depiction of the book but it left out all the grit and some of the most poignant parts. It covered the plot, but didn't tell a story. I was left unsatisfied. In the words of my boyfriend, "It wasn't too bed." It gets an "eh" for OK.