After ignoring this film for nearly a year after its original release, Ocean's Eleven is one of the most pleasant surprises I've encountered on film in a very long time!  I tend to be somewhat skeptical of George Clooney, depending on the particular role he is playing.  Regardless of this nominally respected opinion, Clooney fits the part of Danny Ocean very well.  In fact, I am extremely challenged to think of anyone else that could have been substituted for him.  All the other actors (Damon, Affleck...Casey...not Ben, Reiner, Cheadle, etc.) also do an excellent job.  Their characters are unique, strong, and believable.  The dialogue throughout the film is sharp and witty, and the soundtrack (by David Holmes) is a work of art in its own right.  The music is extremely appropriate for each scene and strongly enhances the variety of emotions conveyed throughout the film.  I cannot say enough about the soundtrack.  It is definitely addictive, just like the film itself.  If asked about any weaknesses in the film, I would have to say that it stems from Julia Roberts in the part of Tess, although one is able to quickly adapt to her acting and appreciate her in this role.  
Although there are many memorable scenes throughout the film, two deserve mentioning.  The first is the glare of Terry Benedict (played by Andy Garcia) as he is being robbed and is watching from the "Eye in the Sky."  Again, the mere motionless glare of nearly a minute is enhanced by the soundtrack.  The second is the group of eleven watching the water spray in front of the casino while Debussy's Clair de Lune plays in the background.  Both scenes, if you'll notice, have absolutely no dialogue.  The images and soundtrack are sufficiently strong enough to leave a lasting impression.  You won't be disappointed.
Also, if you rent/buy the DVD, you might want to consider watching the special features.  I found the commentary on the clothing being reflective and/or enhancing the personality of each character to be extremely fascinating.
(I refuse to compare this film to or rate it against the original Ocean's Eleven.  Each one is unique in its own right and is appropriate for the time/era in which it was produced)