Okay, so you've seen the commercials, the trailers, the magazine ads, and I'll agree that they did the movie no justice. Sometimes you have to swallow your pride and take the risk of watching a movie that could be potentially bad or potentially great. This movie will entertain a certain audience; an audience that can sit back and say, "This is a low-budget movie with a crazy man at the helm. I am ready for anything." If you don't like spending money on a movie that might make you say, "That was ridiculous! Why would anyone say/do/suggest that kind of thing in this situation??" then don't spend your money on this movie, because you will not truly appreciate this hour and a half of raw and senseless slapstick comedy.
  Steve Oedekerk plays a martial arts prodigy aptly dubbed The Chosen One who is stuck in the typical 70's Hong Kong Action Flick storyline: An evil kung-fu master(body doubled by Leo Lee) named Master Pain...I mean...Betty, has killed the Chosen One's family, and he must avenge their deaths. The Chosen One, who wailed on everybody anyway, travels the East and trains in his unorthodox fighting style to locate and prepare himself for the Evil Betty. On his way he is assissted by many wacky and ludicrous counterparts, which range from his dog who is constantly disappearing form wide angle shots, and the one-boobed superwoman, Whoa(Jennifer Tung). The movie's visual quality and low-budget are stunning to say the least. The movie took eight days to shoot, and some scenes were shot in parking lots, beaches, and even Oedekerk's backyard! This short filming time is due to the fact that more than 3/4 of the movie is old footage from a 70's martial arts sleeper. Oedekerk digitally replaced the main character with himself in scenes where the Chosen One was needed and often just replaced the original character's head with his own. This technique was also topped off with beautifully accurate stage designs that were almost identical replicates from the movie it spoofs. All dialogue, except for Jennifer Tung's, is dubbed by Oedekerk in the most wacky way possible. Most lines were improvised and make for an almost impossible storyline, however this is NOT a movie rich in story!
  Rent this movie when you just want a night of hilarity with no strings attached. Keep your standards for the comedy high, and your standards for the story extremely low, and let the impossibility of this movie entertain you. You will either like this movie, or you won't. There's really no grey area. Keep in mind that this movie is no blockbuster, but it is one of my personal top three favorite movies. You can't get much more original than this! Although the movie is actually a spin-off from the original kung-fu flick it spoofs, it's done at a perspective never thought of before. If you like this movie, check out some other Oedekerk movies and featurettes such as the Thumbation series(Thumb Wars: The Phantom Cuticle, The Blair Thumb, Frankenthumb, Bat Thumb, Thumbtanic, The Godthumb) or some of his previous works like the two Nutty Professor movies with Eddie Murphey and Ace Ventura 2: When Nature Calls.