What an extraordinary film.

MURDERBALL is a documentary that follows the members of the US Wheelchair Rugby team, along with one EX-member who is now the coach for the Canadian team. (The game is referred to as "Murderball," but as one of the players remarks, "it's hard to market a sport named 'Murderball!'").

The requirements to be a team member: Quadriplegia. And an incredible hard-hitting and competitive spirit. (Most of us, my wife included... who IS wheelchair-bound due to multiple sclerosis, were under the impression that quadriplegics had NO use of their arms, but it would seem that many quadriplegics retain a certain degree of arm and upper-body function.)

The stars of this film are inspirational. Bob Lujano is a young man who lost his arms and legs to a horrible infection as a young boy. Sitting with a group of school children, he's asked by a little girl, "how do you eat pizza with your elbows?" He proceeds to show them, and there is no shock or revulsion. The children are all awe-struck and smiling as this man proves that you can make your life as normal as it can possibly be, if you try.
(How many people, given a pair of gnarled stumps for arms, would live out their lives being spoon-fed by others? Quite a few, no doubt.)

The "star" of the film, if there is one, is Mark Zupan, a 28-year-old who's life changed when the pickup truck driven by his best friend flew off the road... and he sailed into a canal --where he remained clinging to a branch, undiscovered for 14 hours. Zupan is the kind of guy who takes no crap from anyone. Even his high school buddies point out, "he was an a****** before the accident, and the accident didn't change him!" But it's
obvious that they, along with pretty much everyone else loves him, and during the course of the movie it becomes pretty clear why. He's a good friend to have.

Joe Soares is the FORMER team member who became the head coach of the US team's arch-rivals, Canada. The man is EXTREMELY tightly-wound, but despite the red-faced, screaming rants, there are some very tender moments shown between him and his young son. His son, who has NOT followed in his father's extreme-sports footsteps, somewhat to his dad's disappointment, is instead an academic high-achiever, and plays (of all things) the violin
in the school band. It is a testament to good parenting (and one of many grab-the-handkerchief moments!) to see how Soares supports his son.

The film should be shown to every high school class in America. People deal with the handicapped in very odd, and many times, disturbing ways. If enough people saw this, not only would it give people a better understanding of some of the struggles faced by the disabled, but it would also serve as an inspiration for all. (In fact, my wife hasn't been in our pool for over a year because of her fear that it wouldn't 'go well.' After seeing murderball, she's planning on going for a swim tomorrow!)

*** UPDATE: The swim went just fine, and in the year since, my wife has become FAR MORE confident about herself. She is still 100% wheelchair-bound, but it's something that people forget about in about 2 minutes BECAUSE of her terrific attitude. And MURDERBALL played a part.

*** UPDATE 2: We had the opportunity to go to a Wheelchair Rugby tournament in Tampa --and thought we MIGHT see someone we recognized. Well, we not only SAW, but had a chance to chat and hang out with MARK ZUPAN, SCOTT HOGSETT and ANDY COHN, among others.  What a GREAT bunch of guys! This was months after the release of the DVD, so frankly they could have seen themselves as "stars," but you sure couldn't tell.

The highlight of the day came when Scott Hogsett asked us if we'd like to join them for dinner... and though our schedule wouldn't allow this, the mere fact that they asked just made our day. (Yeah, could you imagine one of the "mega-stars" asking that? Not in a million years!)

- Jonathan Sabin