having grown up in the shadow of the second world war; holocaust, anti-semetism, palestine, the 'bomb' and it attendants--shelters, drills,civil defense, and stories of the glories of great war--this film  measures up to the idea of its totalist destruction as we watch Poland be occupied, the ghetto established, then destroyed, and its it aftermath, warsaw and poland left in ruins unknown to us only now by a vivid comparison of our visual images of September 11. The reality of the set, and the recent events of september 11, still somehow an illigitimate descendant of the great world war--plagued me so vividly the fist time i watched the film, that i was not able to fully appreciate the performance of its lead actor, Adrian Brody, and watch in detail, as the transformation of a human being into less than  unfolds before our eyes as a result of hatred at its zenith.
Again, i watched the film, and again, it seemed so much the same painful recognitions of what we now know about Holocuast, that i was unable to add any further revelations about its shape until i began watching the third, fourth ,and fifth time. slowly , but surely, what i began to see emerge, was exactly how it must have felt to those held captive, enslaved, tortured and killed over the rising political period in Germany, from well before the war, and until first ending when the Allies began the liberation of Europe. I would like to say that it matters how much one knows about the Holocaust, but it doesn't--it is essential in its complete succintness--it tells the tale. That it takes only one chapter of the war, that of the occupation of Poland, the Ghetto and the Uprising, the story of the Pianist itself, and his family; then the everyperson caught in the spiderweb of nazism, is a complete tale. 
At first, i felt the Pianist to be a arrogant man, one whom could not see the dangers of the world, whom deliberately ignored the world around him; only later on, did i come to understand, that in a world of such hostility, such a skin can make the world bearable, even liveable, even palpable to career, marriage, family, and community. This was whom the Pianist was, as he began his walk to the ghetto with his family that day, on October 31, 1941.  It is painful to watch him become more and more disintegrated--i want the arrogant, playful, talented Pianist to return--i want him to stop this, and stand up again. As i watch him become smaller and more invisible, i begin to realize that the Pianist has learned, how to go into hiding with himself; thus , his seemingly amazing ability to hide from the Germans while in their midst. this is the lesson he learned in order to survive. the can of food, becomes food--not its diminished form--the same as the last shared meal the family has together while awaiting their yet unknown fate.
we hear plenty of what it was to survive in the camps; those too, are stories worthwhile, and eternal--we know what it was for anne frank and her family to survive, but we know little about the many others that hid during the war, both Jewish and Christian alike--it is not the mainstream topic of the Holocaust.
the dreams i had as a child, about how it might be easy to survive in the post apolyptic world, was shaken, as i watched this; it is not as my dreams could see it--it was far more that we can even imagine--and that is the very sensibility that Polanksi injects into this movie throught his characters. Each one has their own statement about the survival of this particular end of the world--and it was indeed, the end. And by the end, i began to also comprehend that one singular trait mentioned over and over, in survival stories--that survival depends upon the patience of hope to once again be, combined with  the strange twisted chances of surviving. there are no apologies for survival--there is, the feeling of celebration, more than once, in this movie, of striving to keep alive. 
For its genre, it deserves its acclaim--it very patiently seduces the viewer into this world, and unfolds its secrets with delicacy, and efficacy of details and minutes and hours of the times. the scene describing how the star of david patch is to be constructed and worn, is one such fine example, among many in the film of watching an intimacy of survival in horror is given to us. 
I would not have felt comfortable going to the theater for this movie--and while i missed seeing the sets and hearing the theater sound system--this was a movie best viewed at home, when i could take breaks, from feelings of despair, anger, and hopelessness that set in while viewing it. The very ability to extract such powerful emotions from within myself, intuited that very sensibility and and wonderful portrayal of this man's life during these years we are given privy to. This is a keeper, on the shelf, along with others, on the subject. I am hoping that there will be a study guide for this move, soon in print.