The epic discovered in retrospect.  Not until many years after its theatrical release did 'Once Upon A Time In The West' become a "succes d'estime".  In fact it failed horribly in 1969.  The french and germans loved it under its name 'Play Me The Song Of Death'.  But its birthland Italy and the US found it to be too slow and too long (originally 161 minutes).  ....Filmed in Almeria and the USA it was Leone's homage to the art of the western cowboy genre.  He included visual and verbal quotes from his favorite westerns, including High Noon, the Searchers and Shane.  He honored John Ford by filming scenes in the iconic Monument Valley (reminicent of many a John Wayne movie).  This was Leone's last real Western thus with it a parting and tribute.  ....... . . .Seven years after 'The Good The Bad and The Ugly' Sergio became more realistic in his approach.  Leone, Corbucci ,Barboni, Petroni Spaghetti westerns followed fanciful plots with fauvist characters.  Then Leone got serious, real serious in this authentic view of the west.  And with this movie surpassed the westerns of Ford, Boettcher and Mann.  Indeed he did paramount well in his hybrid hard hollywood/spaghetti western.  ..... . . . Leone's cinematic geometry is poetic.  Circularity and panoramic movement add titanic dimension to both the grandeur of the landscape and depth of character interaction..  ....... . . .The magic in this classic also lies in its risky casting.  Gone are the angular italian machismos.  The very jewish Jason Robarts as the noble bandit Cheyenne?  The very poilish Charles Bronson (Buchinski) as our harmonica playing cowboy?  And Henry Fonda (our socially just hero in dozens of classics) as an amoral childkilling villan?  The casting bet payed off!  The contrasts are perfect.  The interchanges mythic.  Each character carrying their personal sountrack.  Unique.  ...... . . . . I must diagree with the tongue in cheek amazon profile.  This is one serious western.  . . . .  The last 20 minutes are the absolute best western drama on film.  Harmonica's vengeance turns out to be a back-handed heroic act.  Saving Jill and McBain's land. . .  In truth there are no heros here.  Just men -- "an ancient race".