This is a great movie that is definately one of the top ten movies of the ninties. I'd say it would be number 4 on the list if not higher. The first time I saw this movie I didn't think it was very good. But then, strangely, the second time I saw it I was blown away. I'm not sure exactly why this happened but I suspect it might be because this movie is an acquired taste. I think some movies might be like that; the first time you see it you don't like it very much but then later your opinion changes drastically. I kind of suspect movies like The Deer Hunter and Midnight Cowboy fit this description. I saw both of these movies and didn't like them very much(well actually I thought The Deer Hunter was okay). But they're supposed to be classics so maybe I'll like these films later in life. Or maybe my opinion just changed because I was more alert.

I won't give you a long summary of the story as I think you all know it by now. Instead I will tell you what's great about this film. First off, the acting is fantastic all around. Tom Cruise gives his best performance as does Renee Zelweger, and Cuba Gooding Jr. is spectacular. This is a very intelligent movie. It's also a one of a kind movie. This is one of the most original movies I've ever seen if not the most.

 This movie actually has 3-dimenenial characters unlike a lot of films. A great scene in this movie is when Jerry and Rod are in the locker room and Jerry is trying to get his only client a new contract. Jerry tells him to please get rid of his attitude problem which would help him meet this goal and Rod just responds by saying "do your job." Then Jerry say's "fine" and then Rod says "quit telling me to dance" and Jerry responds "fine" again. And then Rod says something along those same lines again and Jerry yells "fine! fine! fine!" and starts kicking the wall repeatedly. At the beginning of this film we see Jerry as a smooth, handsome guy who has it all and then later we see his vulnerable side. We see different sides of Dorthy Boyd(Renee) and Rod Tidwell as well. For most of the movie we only see Rod as a cocky loud mouth but at the end we see a whole new side to him when he's in tears in front of a national T.V audience.

Some people didn't like this movie. To those people I advise you to watch it again sometime. Some people on here did like it but didn't tell what actually made this film great.