Having been a fan of Francis Ford Coppola, I was expecting a good vampire moving and a good adaption of Bram Stoker's novel ( that's what the audience is lead to believe by the title ). I did get a good adaption, but somethings seemed to be out of....place and definetely some mis-casting.

Well, we all know the dracula story, so I explain, as simple as possible. Johnaton Harker goes to Dracula's castle to offer him retail/land to buy. Dracula sees picture of Johnaton's fiancee seeing his lost love. Leaves Johnaton to his other " wives " while he goes to search for her in London. He bites Mina's ( Johnaton's fiancee ) best friend, Lucy, causing Dr. Abhram Van Healsing to go after the damned creature. Lucy dies becomes vampire Van Healsing kills her. Dracula and Mina share passionate moment in her room, he bites her and leaves when interuppted. They try to save her, kills Dracula's wife. Leads to a showdown with all the characters.

As I said, I like this movie, I even own it. But there are somethings that good costumes and imagery just can't save, and one of them is actors : Keanu Reeves. I mean come on, he's fooling no one with the english accent, there is one scene in which is suppose to be taken seriously but is laughable with Keanu's accent, " I saw where the Bastard sleeps." Also ummm, I love Winona Ryder's acting and everything, but here is an actress who was taking on a complex character. Mina's character is suppose to be torn by Dracula and Johnaton, denying her love for Dracula, and coming to realize he is the one! But Winona's accent is also something that brought this movie down. Even though she has the look ( the pale complexion, big brown eyes, black long hair etc. ), her accent is somewhat iffy is how I could describe, one min. it's there one min. it's gone. But over the years I did grow use to it, so it's doesn't bother me half as much as it use to. One thing that got on my nerves, was the nudity, I have nothing against nudity, but I mean really did you need THAT much? Still who am I kidding? I liked seeing Gary Oldman without his shirt. Oh let me go to the postive side of the movie now. There is some brillant acting in this movie, despite what I described above. Gary Oldman was great as Dracula he had the accent down and everything. He also made Dracula quite......cool, confident, calm, sexy. Everything Dracula was made to be. Anothy Hopkins is another great actor who did his role to perfection ( if that is even a way to describe him ). The music is nice for a Dracula movie, not my cup of tea but okay. The costumes, where now, just beautiful, nothing was done more less or more perfect, it was just.....beautiful. So I do recommend this movie for a friday night, something to fill in the time. Or just frankly watch it if your a fan of Francis Ford Coppola.