WOW Sudden Fear! One of the first Joan films I have ever seen(way back in 99/2000),it still remains one of her best!If I had to choose(from the titles I have seen/own),A Woman's Face,Sudden fear,Mildred,Dancing Lady,The Women.

First off, some side notes...By 1952,Joan had terminated her contract with Warners after some less than mediocre assignments. For the first time in her long career, she became a freelance artist. She found the script at RKO,and ultimatly doubled up as actress and producer. Joan also took less money up front and more percentage from the potential(big)box office. When the film became a huge hit,it help revive her fortunes as well as her 3rd oscar nod.Incidently, Joan INSISTED on Marlon Brando for the role of husband from hell "lester Blaine" Apparenly she hounded him a few times, and after she sent him the script, she recieved a note stating he "isn't interested in doing any mother-son pictures at this time" HARSH! I'm sure Joan reached for the 80 proof when she got that one!

In this film,Joan plays"Myra(Can't remember the last name)" a older playright/hieress.Only in Joan's world can someone be both a playright AND an heiress! One a cross country train trip Myra encounters an actor she recently fired from one of her play's"lester Blaine(the wonderful Jack Palance in his movie debut)". Of course they get to talking and romance blossoms(sigh).

Upon the new couple's return to San fransico, all is right with the world and Joan is feeling "very gay" due to her impending engagement...

THE DICTAPHONES SECRET;

Myra keeps a BIG ASS dictaphone in her study for the purpose of recording anything she needs to apparently. One morning after a party, Myra turns it on and to her SUDDEN FEAR, she encounters a plot by her new HUBBY to kill her during the thin window before her new will bequests the majority of her vast estate to charity,,,Instead of a NORMAL person whom take the recording to the police, Joan attempts to hie it and BREAKS IT!Joan realizes she must take it upon herself to save her own life! Ergo,Joan world becomes a crazy mix of paranoia,hallucinations, and nightmares. Some of joans acting in the nightmare sequences is pretty hokey, but excluding this, her acting can't be topped!Again, as in 'A Womans Face" in the crucial third act, Joan is required to emote bec she is hiding in a closet from lester,,,This is one of the best sequences of the film and is beautifully shot,,,There is alot of tension in this film after Myra's discovery(obviously)...and the viewer never forgets Joan MASTERED the requisite talent harking back to her silent days.... Another highlight is when Joan(earlier in the film-pretending she knows nothing) sickenly sweetly proclaims to lester,"I don't know what i did to deserve you..."After she turns her back to him,,,,you can REALLY see what is going on in her head,,,,,but the brilliance is how quickly, severly, and convincingly her mood changes,,,One of course can only expect this from truly great talent....

Also worth mentioning is the excellent Gloria Graham(as Irene the other woman unbeknowst to Joan) whom was making a name for herself in gritty,hardboiled tough guy films... her comments to joan after joan'sprains" her ankle are quite snarky and fun! This is one of Joan's best!