I had no knowledge of the comics that this movie was based on, so I really went in with no expectations. For me, having no expectations is a great thing as it leaves me free to just enjoy the movie. Even though the movie opens with comic book graphics, it still manages to feel fresh. The action scenes are edited in a shaky manner that attempts to raise your excitement with freeze frames that reflect the panel style of the original comic book. Also, The Losers thankfully lacked the family friendly feel that Iron Man and so many movies lately ooze.
Overall, it's a fun movie, with an easy to follow sequential plot. Sometimes it's nice to watch a movie you don't have to think about, and you'll get a few chuckles out of it. Plus, the soundtrack is almost another cast member, one that I'm a big fan of. Actually, now that I think about it, the soundtrack uses a bunch of the songs off of the Glee soundtrack.... hmmmm...

I learned the following things from this movie:
Countries and cities of interest are labeled so as to be easily found from the air.
The man in charge can often be identified by a sports or suit jacket. 2nd in command may wear a vest.
A helicopter and a magnet can pick up a heavy armored truck.
When forming an "offensive perimeter" people only look up and not 20 feet away.
Geeky guys always wear interesting T-shirts.
People who have just had sex walk in slow, stuttering movements.
Holt McCallany may be an illegitimate Baldwin brother.
Surprisingly, hot chicks lie to hairy guys and double cross them.
First person knife fighting is essential to any good plot.
The best way to stop a plane is with a flaming motorcycle.
You can disarm a bomb by duct taping the detonator.

Memorable lines:
"I gave you the hit him in the face nod, not the throw him off of the building nod."
"We don't need seat belts, the G Force will hold you in your seat."
"Clay and his unit? That sounds like a porno, Wade."

My recommendation:
Go see it in the theater where the sound will be great. Obviously renting is will be an enjoyable experience as well, but I think the bass it the theater would make the explosions just a bit better