Before I start rambling on about my favorite anime series here, I would like to say here that buying the entire series when it comes out on DVD is the only thing that makes sense but if you are going to start anywhere and see if you are willing to shell out that cash, you ought to start at the begining.
Kenshin - Samurai X and Rurouni Kenshin - is probably my favorite anime series thus far.  I absolutely love this series and while the Trust and Betrayal OVA's  chronologically are the beginning of the series, in terms of the story line of the series I would recommend watching the OVA's after around the sixty-second episode of the series, that being after the Kyoto Arc.  The most logical place to start watching this is this particular DVD is what i'm trying to say at any rate...
This series is an interesting mix of history and fiction.  Perhaps the reason I love this series so much is because the characters are based on real people.  Some examples of this are Saito Hajime and Seta Soujiro.  While some people may look at this and see DBZ with swords I personally see this series as much, MUCH more.  Yes action is a large part of this series however there are many underlying themes within the series.  One of the main themes that I certainly identified with as I believe most people will, is the idea of changing one's outlook on life.  I find the characters to be fairly well developed and I find they all provide necessary roles to the series.  A good blend of comedy and gravity is represented by the "cast" of Kenshin.
I know Kenshin is not for everyone but I highly recommend you give the series a shot.  While the series is fairly action filled there are some spots that move more slowly.  The dialogues the characters engage in are relavent and therefore do not take away from the series in my opinion.
I believe the series (as in not the OVA's) is suitable for children for the most part but in my opinion this isn't the sort of thing to buy for children.  The OVA's are more dark than the series and more violent I would not think them suitable for young children.
That's it, hope you buy it and enjoy it.