I've read far too many reviews of "Family Guy volume 8" that claim to it be everything from "the sad cousin" to a "severe dissapointment.". I can't agree and I say this after three viewings- a different mood and different room for each viewing.

Now I've always enjoyed the brilliance of Seth McFarland and "Family Guy" but it never really rose above the status of Saturday Night Live in regard to social commentary and humor. Now keep in mind that I am 49 years old so that SNL to me is the Hey Day when Lorne Michaels had the clout to tell NBC execs to shut up and they all ignored the smell of pot coming off the 14th floor of 30 Rock. But "Family Guy 8" Is indeed different than it's previous works. It isn't that it is of lower quality however - far from it - it is that it is of a much higher quality than has ever been achieved before. There are many, many inside jokes, but plenty for everyone. Certainly the better informed you are the more you will laugh at these jokes. The characters remain REAL Characters because we continue to love them. Not one of you hasn't formed deep opinions of Brian, Stewie, Peter Lois and even poor Chris and Meg.

But Family Guy is, at last, not just taking pot shots at the problems within our socio-political climate, but they're pointing out ways in which things could be better. Little Stewie, requiring a diaper change has more common sense than King George did during his entire presidency. And Stewie's anger is really what ours SHOULD be. This volume pokes fun at everyone, including "Family Guy" and Seth McFarland himself. But if you failed to notice that it was also poking light fun at YOU, then you're likely to give this a medicore review. And you have missed the best part of this DVD set.

Me? Well I can take it. I can laugh at myself aznd I have no qualms about learning about myself and self-improvement. I think it's healthy to re-think about socio-political events and when a cartoon character can do this for me, well they damn well blow"The FLintstones" or "the Simpsons" out of the water.

This one's the best so far, folks. Trust me. And for those of you who reviewed it so quickly, go back and watch it again and again. You'll grow wiser each time and you will laugh every time; laughter is the best way to learn. No expense has been spared, from the hiring of the beswt Hollywood starss, to the copyrights to classic Broadway Melodies for re-writing. Whomever does the sindie lyric writing there could give a run to Steve Sondheim. When Brian presents a very smart and logical reason to legalize pot, McFarland counters it with enough to think about as to why ity's illegal. (Not that Brian doesn't return to his drinking problem.)

Thank you, Mr. McFarland and the folks at Fuzzy Door.