The Chronicles of Narnia have been my favorite books since I was 5. When I saw that they were putting those beloved pages ont he big screen I was both delighted and fearful. When I saw the first movie, I notived the spot where they changed the storyline a bit, call it artistic license, so that it would flow better as a movie.  The changes were minimal and didn't alter the story itself.  I was Okal with that.  The second movie was quite a bit altered, but again, I could see where they may have seen the changes as necessary to help it flow right on the big screen. It was well done, and overall I could accept it, although I did gripe about some missing details, and some farther out scenes.

This one though... What were they thinking? For every Narnia lover that I've known, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is the favorite of the books. It's the kind of book that you have dreams about and want to re-read the second you finish it.  Not only did they alter the storyline, they added a complete central theme that never existed.  They downplayed some very essential parts, and added a bunch of crud that they must have thought necessary, but destroyed the entire story as far as I'm concerned.

My children, my husband and myself left the theater feeling completely cheated and wondering why they felt the need to wreck the best story ever. I expected there to be some challenges with certain effects, or with putting into pictures certain things that is left to each individual's imagination, that happens in most movies, but the book flows beautifully as it is. The added story line that, I guess, was supposed to help the flow, was entirely arbitrary, unnecessary, and made no sense.  Personally, it ticked me off.

I suppose, if you've never read the book, and never intend to, and don't mind your kids never reading it either, it was a tollerable movie on it's own... If you are a lover of the books and actually want the story, read it... of if you really want it on the screen, the BBC made a low budget version back in the 80s or 90s that is true to the story, despite the bad special effects.