I'll be honest, I had ZERO expectations for this film.  The second film the series was perhaps the most God awful film I've had the displeasure of sitting through.  Then when this one came to theaters, it bombed both critcally and financially.  Now, with the fourth one on the horizon, I thought I'd go back and catch up by watching this one.  I have to say, I was totally taken aback after viewing this film.  It was the first film to give me the chills in over fifteen years (and I've sat through more horror films than most die hard horror fans).
  One scene in particular (one I wouldn't dream of giving away), completely caught me off guard with it's use of subtlety and eerie sound effects.  There is little on screen gore, as William Peter Blatty (writer/director) has his characters describe everything in  great detail through the dialouge.  This leaves most of it to your imagination, which tends to be more horrific in the long run.  Save for a few really chilling close ups, the direction is pretty straight forward.  Most of it is of the point and shoot variety, which really disarms the viewer when Blatty decides to lay on the scares.
  The acting also suprised me with George C. Scott turning in an emotional performance (slightly over played, but that's always been his style).  The real show stopper would have to be Brad ("Child's Play")Dourif, playing yet another psychopath with his usual brilliance.  The interplay between him and Scott in the cell room came across very shudder-some.  It reminded me of the scenes with Foster and Hopkins in "Silence of the Lambs" (though one should point out this predated "Silence" by a year!).
  If I have any complaints, I suppose the climax would have to be it.  It's as if someone else came in and shot a different ending (which may the case for all I know).  It feels like your suddenly watching someone else's film right at the most crucial moment.  The other complaint would have to be the presentation on the DVD itself.  The picture is a little hazy and it's pretty much a "bare bones" package, with no real special features.
  That aside, this film is a definate must see for all those horror and mystery buffs who may have overlooked this gem back when it was first released.  Very smart thriller, which probably would've done better had it been released under the title "Legion" (the novel which it was based on, also written by Blatty), than as the third in the "Exorcist" series.  Don't get me wrong, this is a great follow up to "The Exorcist" and really the only sequel I would consider to it. But the film stands well on it's own and it's a shame so few ever gave it the time of day becuase of it's roman numeral in the title.