XXX state of the union reminds me of those old 80's action flims that had the main hero flying over helicopters, survive many explosions, survive a barrage of bullets, and escape death about 30 times and then at the end all he has is a little scratch on his cheek. That my friends, is XXX:state of the union.

Ice Cube plays the role of XXX this time and i really wish Vin diesel would have not been so damn greedy and just accepted the offer that the XXX production company was offering him to be in this sequal.
With a government themed conspiracy plot that would make tom clancy  break into tears of laughter, XXX 2 has William Dafoe playing an evil Secretary of defense who has a plan to Kill the president and the vice President during the night that the president is delivering the state of the union address, Alas the title XXX:state of the union.

So Big time War Criminal Ice cube is chosen to be the new XXX by his old commander(Samuel L jackson) and must team up with Xzibit from pimp my ride and a NSA agent and convicts and try to stop this evil plot themselves.

The Negatives-One big negative of this movie is ICE CUBE!!!!!
Come on Ice cube as XXX?? the big bad XXX? Ice Cube??
If this movie was real life Ice Cube would have had a heart attack in the first 5 minutes of action, as he looks kind of on the chunky side, even though he does have muscle, Ice Cube is not Action hero material.

Reality check- Okay now i know this is a movie, and movies stretch reality sometimes but COMEON, this movie breaks the rules of reality and it makes the movie seem very fake and it takes away from the experience.
I'll give you 2 examples!

1-XXX must have a new gadget it's called BULLET PROOF BUBBLE!
Ice cube is swimming away while bullets are being shot at him and 20 bullets whiz by his head, legs, and sides and not EVEN ONE hits him????? COME ON!!!!

2-I didnt know Cars can ride like trains if you put them on traintracks. XXX is chasing this high speeding train and what does he decide to do? of course he throws his car on the traintracks and goes so fast that the tires burn off and only his rims are left and his car is going as fast as the train on the railroad.YEAH RIGHT.
I'm on a roll i'll give you one more example!

3-XXX has been through war world 4, has survived gunfights, knifefights,explosions,car accidents and at the end he only has a little scratch on his face?? a scratch? just a little BOO-BOO?
Wow he really must be tough.

Another thing this movie should have been called
XXX:Pimp my ride Edition.
Xzibit??? Xzibit is going to save the country with ICE CUBE?
hahahahahahahahahaha
And with all the cars that were being modded and showcased i swear i thought i rented a movie of pimp my ride.

Positives-I did like the scene where XXX breaks out of prison with Ice cube running on rooftops and reaching for helicopter in midair(even though it was unreal but hey it looked cool)
and the opening scene with the NSA agency being attacked was good.Also when a very annoying character gets finally killed i was so glad.

Conclusion-Bad Casting, Unreal action scenes even by movie standards, Cliche' action movie ending is XXX:state of the union. Rent if you want some good laughs though.

2 stars out of 5

The Opinionated One has Spoken