I wish shows would end while they are ahead instead of limping off sadly leaving fans with a bittersweet taste in the mouth.  Season 7 had a lot to clean up and I think it was not too badly done, overall.  As a rabid lover of GG, I can still say, with criticism of something I love, that this show took a horrific nosedive around the end of Season 5 and Season 6 was cringe-inducing at best.  The LL relationship was sweet and satisfying in Season 5 and Rory's life was interesting enough, until we got that horrible moment that revealed Rory cannot deal with life unless she's being lavished with praise.  The Mitchum freak-out never got called by its right name.  Instead we had a season 6 of "poor little spoiled rotten brat Rory got yelled at by a meanie."  Not only was Rory impossibly self-centered and obnoxious and disagreeable during season 6, but the LL relationship was BAD!  That relationship was borderline emotionally abusive.  I started violently disliking Luke (after he had been sweet for 5 years) and I just wanted Lorelai OUT.  So, yes, Season 7 had a lot to do.  They had to clean up Luke's personality and Rory's personality, make them likeable again, and they had to somehow bring us back our happy escapist show that once was.

The new writers succeeded in making me like Rory and Luke again.  Rory had gotten so selfish that the only thing to do was just stop and rewrite her character, ignoring previous "character growth."  Which is what they did.  Instead of stomping and sulking around, fighting with her mother and grandparents, and making wild accusations like, "the only reason you want your son to get a job is to separate him from me," suddenly she was sweet and modest again.  She reconnected with friends.  Maybe this sudden turn-around of character should be completely unrealistic, but I didn't care.  I was glad to be able to like Rory again.  On the other hand, rather than pretending that Luke had never been a jerk, the writers wrote in a very believable realization of faults on his part and regret over his behavior.  I liked when he threatened Kirk, "If you do anything to hurt that sweet girl . . ."  And eventually he even apologized to Lorelai.  That needed to be done.  I am grateful to the Season 7 writers that characters become nice and loveable again.

However, I don't think we ever got that special Stars Hollow feeling back again.  Season 6 took us away from our favorite charming alternate universe to a painful, unwatchable world of fracturing relationships where the old Lorelai and Rory did not even exist anymore.  Season 7 was not so harsh and so cold, but it continued along like a soap opera.  The show never slowed down (I mean in plot, not dialogue) and recaptured that perfect balance of family, work, romance, and cat funerals, swan attacks, biscotti-ballroom-dance-a-thons, etc.  In the early seasons, Lorelai's and Rory's romances, fun as they were, did not get center-stage.  There would be a Jess-heavy episode, and then an episode about the inn, and then about a fight with the parents, and then college applications.  GG, at the end, turned into your average 90210--One Tree Hill--Dawson's Creek type of show, and, while I am not knocking those shows, GG had always stood out because it was different.  Boys were important, but so were friends, family, literature, a work ethic, self-respect, and those wonderful little moments that make up life, like getting a cup of coffee with a friend.  The beauty of Gilmore Girls was in the details.  Season 7 did not have that.  We just got drama every week.  I find all that drama exhausting.  I prefer to watch the girls chatting about clothes or homework while strolling down the street.

Season 6 was just plain bad, Season 7 was better than that, but still sub-par.  The older seasons are the best.  Since they had evidently lost the ability to create that kind of magic, it was time for the show to end.  I wish they had ended it before we suffered through Season 6.  But since we weren't that fortunate, I'm glad Season 7 wrapped things up as nicely as they did.