My ongoing fascination with the original Apocalypse Now was born many years ago and always held a very special place in my heart as a movie that so efficiently conveyed the inner darkness of man and the absurdity of how we often perceive what we 'think' is moral in extrenuous situations. It even does all that (and it is a tall order to convey any of that coherently) in an unpretentious, digestable manner so that anyone, even a child, can grasp the important essence of what is there.

However, when supplanting my laserdisc version with the DVD of Apacalypse Now Redeux, I was dissapointed. The added 50 minutes is not just unnecessary as some critics claim but severely detracts from the experience of the original. The original concisely conveys the insanity, lack of moral judgement and fear that can exist in war; Redeux's added scenes often just go further with the same themes but really try to ram them down your neck when they were perfectly understandable before. What made the original so easily comprehensible was often the lack of dialogue (the ol' A picture tells a thousand words maxim) because you could see right up there on the screen than it was crazy, fearful and a moral struggle. In Redeux you need to be shown again, and again and again and then told with extra dialogue too.

My final beef is what I feel is the dramatic change of the genre and story. The original was not intellectual (although it was easy to spend hours discussing and dissecting it), or political or even that strongly plot driven. It was emotional, which is why it was so powerful and could speak to any audience (like or hate as many did, it was comprehensible). The added scenes impose a more rigid structure and therefore give it a more firm plot which in general is a good thing but somehow not here; not with this movie. The original spoke directly to the heart whereas Redeux requires a translation by the brain first. Finally, Redeux has politics behind it. Kurtz's cellside lecture that he gives to Willard is the single largest deviation from the themes of the original. What was originally apolitical (or at least hazily political) is now making a 'very' explicit statement on US foreign policy. That might not make such a bad topic for a film but why did it have to use Apocalypse Now to do it? The very fact that the orginal largely glossed over or bypassed politics enabled the viewer to just watch the movie and let the raw emotion of it wash over them. That is impossible now. I felt like I was watching an episode of a teen drama where you get to the end and are told what the moral of the story is which really insulted my intelligence.

Saying all that, it is called "Redeux" not "Director's Cut" implying that it is not the difinitive director's cut but that both films are definitive and Redeux is merely an alternative telling of the story.

My advice: watch before you buy. Like the original, there is no sitting on the fence with this movie, however it does not necessarily follow that if you liked the original you will also like this (or vice versa).