This movie title reads like a line from Neil Simon's comedy 'Murder by Death (1974)'. In this parody of the British cozy mysteries, the character Lionel Twain (Truman Capote) castigated Inspector Sidney Wang (Peter Sellers) for the mangling of the English tongue.  Wang was scorned for speaking English without articles, pronouns, and prepositions. The tongue-in-cheek subtext of Twain's irritation with Wang, of course, was Capote himself, an accomplished writer in real life.

Many from non-English speaking countries are learning to speak (and write) the lingua franca -trippingly or haltingly- the language of Shakespeare. Modern English words such as "hi" and "bye" have already grafted comfortably into the everyday Taiwan-Chinese vocabulary, as evinced in 'Eat Drink Man Woman'. Yet, it is the eloquence of this four-word vernacular which speaks volumes to the immense richness of the Chinese language.

The original movie title comprised of four traditional Chinese calligraphic characters: &#39154;&#39135;&#30007;&#22899;. The literal and sequential translation of which reads: Drink_Eat_Male_Female.  These elemental word-characters and their meanings are known to every grade schoolers where traditional Chinese calligraphic scripting are taught.

There are no grammatical equivalents for gerunds, transitive, intransitive verbs, or tenses in Chinese.  Thus the word-character drink(ing) or eat(ing) can be either a noun or a verb, depending on the syntax and context where they are placed along with other words in a sentence. When "Drink" and "Eat" are paired in tandem (not "Eat" before "Drink" as in the subtitle), it became a couplet with further amplification in meaning. With the sum greater than the parts, the two-word phrase transformed to connotate "sustenance" or "to maintain life".

Vis-a-vis the ubiquitous scripting of today's Chinese, as examplified in the screen version of the words, "Drink" and "Eat", the latter two words of the movie title "Male" and "Female" were shown as very old calligraphic variants.  The significance of this change in scripting was interesting and intriguing to note. This hierogliphic-like couplet of the "male and female" word-characters could lend to mean the biological imperatives of mating is as old as time. It is as necessary as eating and drinking.

When these two-word couplets were further paired as in the movie title, we have the adage "Drink_Eat_Man_Woman". A terse, quintessential statement that says: The circle of life requires sustenance.

In this Taipei family drama, Ang Lee aptly juxtaposed the varying affects of food and love, as it should be, to impart a verisimilar and sumptuous lesson on life.