The FINAL DESTINATION films offer an ingenious twist on a well-worn horror subgenre.  The premise is that if you escape a situation in which you were "meant" to die, Death will continue stalking you until it succeeds in recouping its losses.  Essentially, they are slasher films without a slasher; instead, there is an unseen force that insures that anything that can go wrong does.

At the start of the second film, Kimberly Corman (A.J. Cook - THE VIRGIN SUICIDES) is leaving for vacation with some friends when she witnesses a spectacular highway disaster which she narrowly escapes.  But soon, other survivors begin dying and Kimberly remembers the case of Flight 180 a year earlier.  Like Alex Browning, one of the plane's survivors, she becomes convinced that Death is picking them off one by one.  She tracks down Clear Rivers (Ali Larter, reprising her role from the first film), the one Flight 180 passenger who is left alive, and the only one who might be able to help them escape their fates.

It helps if you accept the premise (I've always thought the first film might have been better as a psychological thriller in which it was unclear whether Death was really after these folks or it was just Alex's paranoia - but I digress) but it's not a requisite.  The fun is mainly in watching all the disparate elements come together and compound themselves until they result in a character's demise.  In most cases they're highly improbable, but curious coincidences happen in real life all the time; undoubtedly many of them go unnoticed or undocumented.  I didn't have any trouble suspending disbelief.  The point is that the events may be unlikely, but they aren't impossible.  There are even a few red herrings to keep you on your toes.

Oh, and the deaths are quite nice.  I only recall one particularly gory end in the first movie, but this one delivers the goods on all counts.

FINAL DESTINATION 2 is presented as one of New Line Cinema's "Infinifilm" DVDs, which is a fancy way of saying "bonus features."  If you watch the Infinifilm version of the movie (you should watch it uninterrupted first) options will appear periodically through which you can view extended and deleted scenes, screen tests, making-of segments, and more.  After the feature ends, you'll be dropped back into the film where you left off.  If you don't want to watch the entire movie again, your chapter buttons will take you to the next scene that contains an extra, or you can jump there from a menu.  You can watch the movie with a pop-up "fact track," or listen to it with filmmaker commentary. Outside the film, there is featurette on near death experiences, and one in which three teenagers are hooked up to bio-monitors so that their reactions to certain key scenes can be examined.  There is a thirty-minute documentary that begins with a retrospective of splatter films and goes into the making of this film's effects.  There is considerable redundancy among the extras, but I suppose no one really watches them all.  There are two music videos, and trailers for both movies.  Finally, there is a stupid game called "Choose Your Fate" in which you pick a card and get either a pleasant fortune replete with bunny rabbits cavorting or a horrific death.  Fun.