There has been no greater filmmaker than Louis Malle.  At his best, he was as good as Bergman-- perhaps even better-- because he was much less a "dramatist," his technique was more invisible, and his penetration into his subject even deeper.  Seen as a group, MURMUR OF THE HEART, LACOMBE LUCIEN, and AU REVOIR LES ENFANTS may be the highest mark the cinema has yet achieved.

The link between the last two films is obvious, but why group MURMUR OF THE HEART with the pair of films about the WW2 occupation?  Because stylistically and thematically there is much about them that belongs together.  Malle's subject is the unknowability of the self.  His camera allows us access to  most profound study of human nature in ways that are beyond our ability to conceptualize rationally.  These three films are perhaps the greatest visual poem ever created on the subject of what it means to be human.

Miraculously, Malle achieves works of superhuman complexity in a form so simple as to seem almost invisible.

In LACOMBE LUCIEN, the story achieves an achingly beautiful tension that culminates in a lyrical sequence which seems to be the blossoming of a new kind of innocence-- and yet, ironically, this very affirmation contains the seeds of its own destruction.  Some may be tempted to dismiss the ending as "incomplete,"  but if so, it is incomplete in the same way as the ending of "No Country for Old Men," another great and visionary movie.

On a technical level, I think LACOMBE LUCIEN may be the single most refined and effective piece of cinematography in film history.  Tonino Delli Colli (known in America primarily for his work with Sergio Leone-- ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST), here merges his craft with Malle's genius for putting the camera in the right place and allowing "truth" to seep out of the screen.

Equally, the editing of this film achieves a flow and pacing that puts it also on the level of the finest work of Bergman, Fellini, Hitchcock, and Bunuel.

But it is Malle's insight and intelligence that plants this film ultimately at the summit of the highest art.

Until I saw this film again recently, I usually named RULES OF THE GAME as my candidate for "greatest film ever made."

I better stop before I exhaust all superlatives.  In the face of genius, perhaps the best one can do is remain silent.  The awe I feel in the face of this film has kept me from doing my best, but if I can convince a few people to experience this work for themselves, then the excesses of these lines will have served some purpose.