I was a fan of Patricia Highsmith's novel going into Anthony Minghella's film.  If you have ever read the book, you'll know there has been a great deal of change.  However, I was surprisingly pleased with Minghella's  version.  In fact, I've grown to love it more than the book. 
It's a very  well made movie, from the haunting opening song by Sinead O'Connor to the  closing shot of a tormented Ripley.  The entire movie looks beautiful, with  cinematography by Minghella regular John Seale.  It is also a very musical  movie. Where Dickie was an artist in the book, he is now a jazz musician.  There are several nice scenes involving music that you'll enjoy if you are  a jazz fan. 
What I adore most about Ripley is its story of a man who  desperatly wants to fit in.  Tom Ripley is a nobody in New York, he works  in an operahouse as a bathroom attendant.  He lives in a cruddy basement  apartment across from a butcher.  He cannot afford a piano, so he practises  on a paper keyboard.  One day, while subbing as an accompanist, Tom  stumbles onto an offer to go to Europe. Wealthy Mr. Greenleaf grants him a  mission to bring back his prodigal son.
When he arrives in Italy, he  realises he has the chance to become a somebody.  He is especially  enamoured with Dickie Greenleaf, who has a hypnotic effect on everyone he  meets.  What Tom doesn't particulary understand that Dickie is too  narcsistic to care about anyone other than himself.  Tom loses Dickie's  attention and is devasted. 
...
Tom is a  character we root for, because he is the underdog.  He is not rich or  popular, truly deserving of a chance at something better.  A lot of people  describe this movie as disturbing, but only because of the level of  violence.  It disturbed me in the way it depicted a person trying to fight  their way of their station in life and failing. Ripley is basically a man  with good intentions who only wants to be liked.  He doesn't do anything  cold bloodily, he only [tries] to protect what little he has of his  character.  If Ripley can't be himself and succeed, what hope does any of  us have?