Make no mistake about it, as a "legit" film, Valley of the Dolls (or as author Jacqueline Susann and her publisher called it to save time, "VD,") deserves not even one star. But as a camp classic to be savored over and over again for its pure awful qualities, VD is tops, even beating out "Mommie Dearest."

Let's digress to "Mommie" for a moment... was it a drama about child abuse or was it a comedy about Joan Crawford's neuroses

and over-the-top clothes and make-up?  There's still debate about it, and it's said that Faye Dunaway still gets the heebie-jeebies if you mention it.  According to her, her career was never the same after it.  Why?  Here's my theory: it's fine for an audience to laugh with an actor, but once the audience laughs AT the actor, said actor is in big trouble.  Miss Dunaway was absolutely correct.  From the heights of "Bonnie and Clyde," "Chinatown" and others, she barreled down from the top of the mountain on a sled called "Mommie Dearest."  She did, of course, continue working, but she was tainted goods.

"VD" even surpasses "Mommie" for sheer awfulness because it possesses all the requisiste poor qualities: bad script, bad acting, bad directing, absurd wardrobe and make-up... but has this extra bonus: sheer, undiluted amateurishness that injects big laughs into the "serious" scenes.  It is as if you gave $10 million dollars in 1967 money to, say, high school kids to come up with a dirty movie.  It is a lack of professionalness combined with an odd sense of innocence dealing with steamy topics that leads to audience head-shaking and guffaws.  The same might be said for the "VD" novel itself.  One of the more snippy reviews at publishing time said of Miss Susann's writing: "It isn't even English!"

I'm not going to get into the plot much, because if you haven't read "VD," go and enjoy!  Suffice it to say, it is a roman-a-clef that's supposed to keep you guessing who the character REALLY is.  Other reviews have stated that it is about Ethel Merman and Judy Garland, and these statements are true.  It should be noted that Susann's husband, Irving Mansfield, was a very busy TV producer during the 1950s, and Jackie herself busy in a TV and Broadway career.  Therefore, much information was passed to them and between them.  Merman's foul temper and mouth, for example.  In the "VD" book and film, Neely (Judy) gets stoned right before her big Broadway opening.  A similar episode actually did happen to Garland, who overdosed right before her Ford Star Jubilee TV special.  So one must marvel at Susann's being privy to the most inside and secret of showbiz information.  Of course, if you don't care about such things, you will not enjoy the film or understand its camp cult status.  Patty Duke as Neely has often been accused of scenery chewing, but if you consider the material, you could see that only chewing would work.  Barbara Parkins (the Polly Bergen character) is a stunningly beautiful zombie, Sharon Tate (a cross between Jackie herself and Marilyn Monroe) gets big laughs for her awkward telephone scenes, and Susan Hayward gets to be Queen of Camp with likely the worst dialog of any movie ever made since Warners invented the "talkie."  But in that respect, it is true to the book.  In one scene in the book, Tony Polar (the Dean Martin-like Italian crooner) has a question for Sharon's character Jennifer.  She is pregnant and he wants to know if he can perform a certain act when she is lactating.  Tony: "Will you let me suck them then too?"  Try saying that 5 times fast.  That line is not in the "VD" film, but equally appalling and laugh-inducing dialog.  The lyrics of the "VD" songs, ballads and specialty numbers written by Andre and Dory Previn, rival and occasionally supass the dialog for childishness.

If you've never understood the concept of camp, make some popcorn and spiced apple cider, invite a few friends over and enjoy this truly bad, BAD film, so bad it's good, and THAT is the meaning of camp!