I know Yes. I've worked while listening to Yes. Yes is a friend of mine. So let me assure anyone contemplating the purchase of this DVD that there's precious little of that great band to be gleaned from this monstrosity. 
However, that said, there ARE reasons to at least take a gander at this stupefyingly defective video extravaganza. Those reasons are few in number, and they may not prove compelling for any but most diehard of Yes fans, but there are reasons.
For one thing, you don't have to stare at Jon Anderson's smug countenance nearly as often as you do during the House Of Blues video; one could argue that's worth the price of admission all by itself. And on a more postive note, there can be found, within the disc's two-hour-plus girth, a dozen or so truly rewarding video snippets, including a couple of terrific two-shots of Alan and Chris and some sweet (if woefully unsyncronized) lingerings on Steve's fingerings. It's also possible - if you look quickly and carefully - to sense the different ways in which the band regards a few of the key pieces (for example, they were obviously invigorated by the freshness of "America," they clearly venerated "Awaken" (and deservedly so, I might add), and it seemed apparent they were really quite moved by the majesty of "Onward"). Hard to pick up on that sort of thing from the CD.
Still and all, this laughably incompetent production is a mess, and don't you forget it. Sound and pictures are never in sync (no, seriously...they're NEVER in sync), while the video effects are, almost without exception, mind-numbingly amateurish and maddeningly distracting. But then again, that's clearly the purpose of those much-maligned special FX intrusions - to distract you from the fact that what you're seeing and what you're hearing nearly always emanates from two separate and distinct moments in time. It goes like this: wide shots of the stage come from one of the shows, while all the close ups are from dress rehearsels (or some other such audience-free event). It's a farce...and it's a shame, too, because many of the required elements were in place to create a wonderful documentation of the definitive Yes lineup striding confidently through a thoughtfully chosen set. Oh well. 
Hey, consider this: Go find a rental copy of this ridiculous thing, prepare as though you're about to watch "Plan 9 From Outer Space," and then just let the whole event unfold. That's what I did, and damn if it didn't work.