The  lush, rolling green fields of Ireland and its lovely villages provide the idyllic setting for this warm, humane  little comedy, which is about what happens when an old man wins nearly eight million pounds on the Lottery and then dies from the excitement with the winning ticket still in his hand.
Two old villagers, Jackie O'shea (Ian Bannen) and Michael O'Sullivan  (David Keller) learn from the papers that someone in their small village of only 52 inhabitants has won the Lottery; and their efforts to find the winner occupies the first part of the film. When they eventually do so and call on Ned and find his dead hand still clutching the winning ticket, they have to decided what to do; to be honest and hand the ticket back or to take advantage of the situation and pretend one of them is Ned. The temptation is irresistible.
But, not being selfish, they want the whole village to share in Ned's good fortune. And so they hold a village meeting and put forward their plan; provided that each villager will sign a form committing them to secrecy, the money will be shared out and each will receive £150,000. But some quick thinking is required and many lies and evasions follow when a representative of the Lottery comes to the village to verify the claim and the claimant's identity and arrives in the middle of Ned's funeral service and Jackie O'shea's funeral oration. And their plan is under threat from another quarter; the evil-minded witch of the village demands £1000,000 in hush money!
There is a nice little love interest in which James Nesbitt as Pig Finn is excellent as as pig-man, too poor and smelling too much of pig to be thought at all desirable by his beloved. £150,000  would see them both right.
But it is Ian Bannen as Jackie O'Shea, still full of his usual energy and Joie de vivre, who is central to the film and raises it so well above the average. How sad that he should die so soon after the film's completion. At least he went out on a high note and left us with a memorable performance.