I LOVE this video. I have been a fan of Kathy Smith over the years and some of her videos I adore and others aren't my favorites. This is definitely one of my very favorites. It is a beautiful set with various "charkra" colored large glass vases spread throughout. The music is upbeat, but not obnoxious and not too loud. I do however miss her entourage of students that she usually practices with (she practices alone in this one). Kathy is totally amazing at age 59 in this video; she looks better than most 30-40 year old's.

The video is broken into 3 sections that can be practiced separately or combined in any order you like. I prefer a slightly different order than they have listed on the video menu. I've put number next to each one for my preferred practice order:
Total Circuit (2)
Total Balance (1)
Total Energy (3)

TOTAL CIRCUIT
In 24 minute segment Kathy switches between lite cardo and lite weights. Very little instruction is provided, but she's quite easy to visually follow along. The first couple cardio movements are a bit difficult for me since it involved a fair amount of twisting action and I have some hip issues at the moment. The weight segments included bent over rows, bicep curls, overhead press, dead lift, and tricep kick-backs (light-weights with high-repitition). For both the cardo and weights Kathy performs very effective repetitions with full movements, repeaters (quick movements in shorter range of motion, they full movements. This section works your muscles  and full overall body really well in a short amount of time.

TOTAL BALANCE
This section is a mix of swinging and fun dance-like movements mixed with balancing. It feels like a vinyasa yoga class without the boring old sun salutes :-) For example you start by moving side-to-side, then forward-back and includes arm swings. Then on to lunges with challenging (but not too challenging) 1-leg balance movements. I love this section; it makes me feel alive and happy!

TOTAL ENERGY
Beth's Cholette's review on this video is very helpful, but unlike her take on this section, I LOVE IT..it is one of my very favorites. I use it as a morning energizing and awakening ritual and in only 20 minutes so you can fit it into your day just by getting up a bit earlier than usual. It starts out with a
standing breathing and movement section, then moves on to the floor. It includes stretching and more movement/breathing. I really like the cat/cow/cobra section with lots of movement to lubricate and open your joints and muscles. It ends with more standing movements and I especially like the shoulder blade series. I feel energized, centered and renewed after this practice.

My only concern is with the video quality. The definition/resolution, sound, and staging is excellent, but for some reason the "frames per minute" seems off. It is a bit choppy and even makes me a bit dizzy at times. Not a huge deal, perhaps this is done to reduce digital file size.

Amazon has this at 1/2 price right now, $8 is a great value for this video that you can use over and over again.

 Please check out my other video yoga and exercise reviews on Amazon. Most of my early reviews (pages 25-35) are primarily these types of reviews.