Say what you will about the charachters, the weird science, or the silly wolves, but you can't deny that the day after tommorow knows how to destroy, freeze, or superfreze the world into a very chilly ice cube.

Inspired by the book "The coming global superstorm", the day after tommorow follows the idea "What if a new ice age happened this week?".  The story concerns a weather science guy as he tries to rescue his son, who's trapped in manhattan after a nasty tidal wave.  All the while, all of humanity must try to survive as temperatures plunge and earth essentially becomes an ice cube.

While one can debate the questionable physics of the movie (walking from Washington to Manhattan in a few days during a massive snowstorm, how warming up the planet causes an ice age, etc.), one cannot deny the incredible atmosphere and visual destruction the movie unleashes.  The movie's greatest strength is it's atmosphere.  One really gets the feeling that this really is the end of the world (at least for the northern hemisphere).  The destruction shown, the massive amounts of human life lost, the destructive weather, all of it adds up to a very effective and belivable atmosphere.  I'm not ashamed to admit that at times I actually felt cold while watching the movie!

The special effects are, as one would suspect, terrific.  The tornadoes, blizzards, all of it looks perfectly belivable and realistic.  The standout sequence occurs when the massive tidal wave barrels through manhattan in a scene that gives me goosebumps every time I watch it.  If you want a movie where you get buildings trashed by tornadoes, the british isles getting buried under fifteen feet of snow, and tidal waves washing through manhattan, then this movie is for you!

Like the effects and the atmosphere, the film also does a standout job audio-wise.  The music is very good and effective at creating a sometimes tense, sometimes haunting atmosphere.  The main theme in paticular, is very effective at conveying despair, yet at the same time, hope.  The sound effects do an astonishing job of conveying howling wind and freezing snow, all of it adding to and enriching the atmosphere of the movie.

But atmosphere and visuals will only take you so far.  What about the charachters, on whom the movie puts it's backbone on?  Regrettably, the charachters are not very effective.  All of the actors in the movie, major or minor, do a very good job in thier respective parts, but a lot of them are not very interesting.  We get two primary chrachters (the scientist and his son) and close to two dozen secondary charachters, most of whom have little to do.  It's a sad fact of movies that if you have a secondary chrachter on screen for a grand total of five minutes before he/she dies, you don't get emotionally attatched to them.  Such is the case with The day after tommorow.  I couldn't remember over 3/4th's of the charachters names except Sam and Frank (and only then becuase the father keeps shouting, "FRANK!").  Instead of names,  you have to go by, "Library guy" "Library woman" "Homeless guy with dog" "Government guy who argues with father" "Father's sidekick".  That doesn't mean that these side charachters are boring, per se, it's just that we don't really care about them.  The only real exception is the policeman, who has a small part, but is portrayed very well and very effectivly.  He was the only real charachter I cared about.

I really don't care about the bad movie physics here (In real life, the statue of liberty would have toppled over the moment the tidal wave hit it).  The way the movie does present the physics makes it look belivable, and that's fine with me.

The biggest problem I have with the day after tommorow is it's pacing.  The first two acts of the movie are gripping and holds you attention very easily.  The third act however, falls and stumbles, failing to hold our attention as well as it did previously.  A big part of this is the fact that the climax of the movie (the superfreeze) takes place approximatly fifteen minutes before the end of the movie.  You've no doubt heard about the silly wolves sequence, and i'm sad to say that the wolves part of the story is very silly and pretty much pointless.  It would be much more effective if the wolves were replaced by starving, crazed humans who have lost thier mind.

The emotional climax is a bit flat, not really bringing things to a satisfying end.  One rather unfortunate reality of this type of story is that there's no villian, no antagonist to focus all the negativity on.  Here the foe is mother nature.  So, how do you plan to defeat mother nature and win the day? (Hint:  You don't).  It is admittingly very tough to write an ending to a movie where your villian is the forces of nature, who cannot be defeated by lots and lots of guns.

But in the end, the movie is an excuse to go and experience a great atmosphere and see lots of destruction, not to see emotionally involving charachter stories.  The overall message of the movie, that we shouldn't mess with mother nature, is the main point of the movie, regardless of how we get there.  I have to say that it's message is conveyed fairly well, as it gets you thinking about how humans are polluting the planet and what the consequences might be.

So in the end, see the movie for it's effective atmosphere and special effects.  Don't go in expecting extremly involving charachters and a satisfying climax and ending.

Don't forget your snowshoes!