I find fasinating the tacit debate that is emerging on this site about which is the better movie, GF1 or GF2.  I find it amazing that anyone could seriously debate that GF1 is a better movie then GF2.  As others have said far more eloquently then I can, GF2 has more texture and richness then GF1.  GF1 has its appeal, indeed.  The story is a classic and prototypical mob plot, and its revelation of the what happens behind the curtain of a mob family hierarchy is very entertaining.  But GF2 goes to another level.  It is less about the grand and near-gothic happenings of the inter-circle of the mob family, and more about the depths of a master criminal mind: the paranoia, the self-indulgence, the use of bizarre rationalization to justify evil ends, and the eventual transition of the rationalizations to verisimilitude.  Michael's descent into complete darkness and loneliness, but without the additional despair that one would expect makes this file epic as a character study beyond the reach of GF1.  That he would kill his own brother-in-law in GF1 causes us to see him with a distrubing awe.  But the killing of his own brother, in a environment in which "family" is held as the greatest possession in life, is absolutely the most haunting scene in all of American film.  (The one great thing about GF3 is its attempt to reflect upon and reconcile the death of Freddie.)
Others who write here seem taken with GF1 because of the stunning presence of Brando.  No argument here.  Brando is a legend, and rightfully so.  But GF2 has a performance that, again, leaves Brando's acheivement in GF1 in GF2's wake:  Lee Strasberg's performance as Hyram Roth not only is one of the greatest film performances of all time, but establishes Strasberg as one of America's greatest actors.  Ask Pacino, DeNiro or Scorsece who is the greatest actor of all time, they would loudly and uniformly cry "Lee Strasberg."
If I could take two films to a desert island, GF1 and GF2 would be the obvious choices.  If I could only take one?  GF2 would be just as obviously the right choice.