There are enough other documentaries out there and old reels which feature Muhammad Ali sounding off about his own greatness. FACING ALI is a fascinating documentary that switches it up, allows ten of the Greatest's opponents to have their say about Ali. And some of the things they say aren't so complimentary, so this isn't by any means a suck-up job. This documentary, by the way, is based on Stephen Brunt's engrossing book.

George Chuvalo. Sir Henry Cooper. George Foreman. Joe Frazier. Larry Holmes. Ron Lyle. Ken Norton. Earnie Shavers. Leon Spinks. The singing Ernie Terrell. Some of these cats are articulate, some not so much. Several wax eloquent about what Ali meant to them and how he impacted the incendiary social climate of the 1960s and '70s. Some take sly potshots. Frazier probably still isn't over Ali's very demeaning insults, although he still got choked up by documentary's end. What you don't get is a unanimous proclamation done by rote of how wonderful Ali is. These fighters deliver honest, sometimes unflinching, perspectives. They say what they really think of Ali as a fighter and as a man. Nowadays Ali is revered as one of the most beloved sports figures in American history. But it wasn't always so. There was a time in the '60s when Ali was very much a polarizing figure. The brash, uppity Louisville Lip who would make cruel fun of his opponent and predict what round he'll knock the bum out. The blasphemer who rebuffed the consensus religion to take up Islam. The coward who wouldn't fight for his country. There were haters back in the day.

FACING ALI is an entertaining, moving, and sometimes haunting film, and one I couldn't just turn off (and I had to go to work, too, man).  Each fighter paints an intimate backdrop, provides personal color to his fight with Ali, and, in the process, interjects a bit of his own life story. George Chuvalo, a born raconteur, recounts an anecdote about his drugged-out kids that is particularly searing. We learn of Ken Norton's devastating car accident that paralyzed him for three years. And of Ernie Terrell's pre-fight dissing of Ali by way of song. We also see archival footage of Ali's fights with these gentlemen, although there's nothing new there as most of these clips are probably very familiar to longtime boxing fans, especially those who can access ESPN Classic. However, based on these fighters' insights, you may look at these clips in a different light.

The DVD's bonus material: "Animated Trivia Cards" are just condensed bios on the ten boxers; "Bringing the Fights to Life" is a featurette that goes into the technical challenges concerning the shooting of this documentary (00:08:24 minutes); "Facing Ali: Book to Screen" is pretty much the Making Of segment (00:11:22); and in the "After the Bell" featurette, director Pete McCormack talks about his impressions of these fighters and the experience of meeting and working with them (00:08:56).