This is certainly an ambitious and for the most part, at least, a very well thought out and well executed version of the play. Particularly given the endless times it's been performed and reinvented, and that Hawke isn't overly impressive in the title role, it is surprisingly successful. For my money the only real glitches are a couple of casting errors, one larger -- Murray as Polonius tries but just can't get it, as good and likable as he may be -- and one not very large -- the completely flat performance of Thurman (presumably related to then Hawke significant other Uma) as Guildenstern. But there are more than enough casting and subsequent performance triumphs to well outweigh those, from MacLachlan's interesting Claudius to Shepard's presence as Hamlet's father to the modern fragility of Stiles as Ophelia all the way down to Zahn, whose Rosencrantz must have not only the best physical entrance of about any Rosencrantz in history but who also carries through nicely on the occasions when only his voice is heard. But maybe the real gem is Schreiber, whose Laertes is so good that you wonder if the final result wouldn't have been even better if he and Hawke had traded roles (although in a situation reminiscent of Brandauer and Redford in Out of Africa, it's hard to imagine that suggestion going over commercially with production heads).

Apart from all this, and of course the play itself and its ideas the language of it, which have obviously proved superb over the test of time, you have to give the makers credit for not just dropping the story into Manhattan in the year 2000 but also for genuinely and creatively following through on that with a commitment to work in especially the various media with which we communicate today. On maybe just one or two occasions (the pay phone, for example) does this seem a bit forced or unnatural; on manyh of them it is remarkably insightful and touching and brings you into the language and world of the play (such as the constant use and editing of film by Hamlet). And that's exactly what a modern interpretation of a centuries-old work should do. All were clearly aware of the sentiments of the play and how to update them for our age, as one can see throughout the film in general but also in the genius of a few specific points (for example, the way Hamlet's brooding while aimlessly wandering the aisles of a Blockbuster Video store and his lackluster renting of a dozen or more films captures a very modern world weariness perfectly suited to the character).

I watched it 3 times in a week and enjoyed it each time. Can't imagine that someone giving it a fair chance would come out of the experience anything but very satisfied.