Most recently I've had a deep intrest in the art and the life of
Jean Michel Basquiat.
I started exploring my curiousity with this 1996 film directed by Julian Schnabel-a fellow artist of Basquiat-entitled simply "Basquiat".Playing the execently-acted role of Basquiat is Jeffrey Wright(future star of John Singleton's 2000 remake of "Shaft").
Although this film is hyped as a biopic,it's more an expressionist
look into Basquiat's mind.
Basquait is depicted as a man-child genius with a troubled family
(his mother would get locked into a mental hospital
as the films shows in a chilling scene)
and a reckless attitude.This is a journey of the mind of a man who knew that success was a given for him.
But the one thing I don't like about this film is that it's not really a proper biopic.It doesn't show Basquiat's severe depression to you,it shows it in the mind of Basquiat.That may turn some people off who would like to see a clear narrative of the life of the artist.We see several scenes of Basquiat snorting coke or smoking weed for pleasure while riding in his limo or pondering his next masterpiece.But it's shown in an arty context.
David Bowie gives an ingenious performance as Andy Warhol-who Basquait later befriended in the last years in his carrer and his life(Basquiat died at age 27 in 1988 of a herion overdose).
It makes me wonder why Bowie doesn't do more acting projects because he's a really good actor.
This film features an all-star cast which features Bencino Del Tero,Courtney Love,Michael Wincott,among others and an excellent soundtrack,which features greatly emotional,moody music from
the likes of Public Image Ltd.,P.J. Harvey,Tom Waits,
etc.("Basquait"'s ending credicts roll to Lenoard Cohen's hauntingly beautiful "Hallejuah".
Altough I must complain that with the exception of Miles Davis'
"Flamingo Sketches"
and some Charlie "Bird" Parker compostions-not much jazz(that was Basquiat's favorite
music) is heard in this film.
Jean Michel Basquiat,along with Jimi Hendrix,Tupac Shakur,and
Miles Davis,was a brilliant,intriguing,mysterious black man that lived and played hard and died young(with the exception of Miles).
"Basquiat" is a great -yet at times meandering-film
(it's one of my favorites) that gives a bit of insight into the short life of Basquiat and his art but
there's even more to this man--that we will never know...