Let's get the technical stuff out of the way first. The staff at Millcreek Entertainment has done the best it could to clean up the 40 shows included on THE BEST OF JACK BENNY.  But I'll warn you in advance! Some of the shows are from kinescopes or 16MM films that were duplicated poorly. So in certain situations...you'll have to adjust your eyes to shows out of focus...or tolerate audio with noticeable splice jumps. Consider the fact that practically ALL of these shows are more than 70 years old!

Now let's discuss "America's Favorite Miser", Jack Benny.  His real name was Benny Kubelsky. The name change to Jack Benny occurred during his vaudeville appearances...which occasionally included music from his violin. [Jack was an excellent musician, but you rarely got to hear him seriously perform. The violin was just another prop used for humor]. From vaudeville and various stage appearances, Jack entered radio in the early 30s continuing into the 1950s. Naturally, the next step was television.  In fact, Jack performed on the air and on the tube simultaneously.  But his television appearances varied from weekly and alternate Sundays to  an occasional 1-hour special. An example of the latter is the show called: "The Jack Benny Hour" featuring The Beach Boys and Walt Disney.

In many cases, Jack's radio cast (including Don Wilson, Dennis Day, Eddie 'Rochester' Anderson and Mel Blanc) followed him into television.  So some of the sketches were identical to those previously done on THE JACK BENNY (RADIO) SHOW.

What's fun about this 4-CD set is that there's a dash of history tossed in every so often.  References are made to Presidents Truman and Eisenhower, the Super Bowl, and Easter Seals. Naturally...most of these shows have guest stars who are no longer with us. Among them: Bob Hope, Fred Allen, Irene Dunn, Ernie Kovacs, and Jack's personal friend, George Burns.  There are guest appearances on The Bing Crosby Show and Burns & (Gracie) Allen. Also fascinating are the televised versions of Jack's radio dramas through the courtesy of the General Electric Theatre. But in my opinion, Jack's greatest strength is still with his radio cast.  While Mary Livingston (his wife in real life) was nervous about appearing in front of a television camera, "How Jack Found Mary" is one of the funniest shows in this 40 show set.

Here's something very important. Many of the shows in this collection contain the original commercials for Lucky Strike Cigarettes (LSMFT), General Motors and State Farm Insurance. Jack's writers knew how to cleverly work his sponsors into the middle commercial break.  And these are STILL FUNNY to watch! [Can you imagine Danny Kaye or Rochester singing with The Sportsmen Quartet]?

To sum it all up, if you grew up with Jack's radio show, many of these shows will amuse you.  If you're a total stranger to Jack's sense of humor and comedic timing...you're in for a treat!