I have been a WWI and WWII aviation buff since I was 10 years old.  When I was 12, my parents took my brother and me to see the then-acclaimed "Midway" with Charlton Heston in 1977.  I enjoyed the movie, but enjoyed more pointing out to my parents and brother the facts the movie got right and those it didn't.  Whenever I see a war movie, I'm usually critical about the facts not depicted correctly.  As many reviewers here have pointed out, "The Red Baron" takes many liberties with the facts and when I started watching it, I proverbially sighed and thought this was an opportunity wasted.  However, I became increasingly engrossed in the film as it progressed.  I suspect many will disagree with me, especially the aviation history aficionados, but I have to say this is an interesting and entertaining film that captures the spirit of WWI combat aviation even as it takes many liberal liberties with the facts.  It accurately depicts how the early WWI pilots valued chivalry and saw their war as a sport, not the bloody combat it was, and how as the war progressed, the reality of war became increasingly clear to the pilots.  Manfred von Richthofen is accurately portrayed in the beginning as interested in nothing else but shooting down his prey.  Although it is unclear whether von Richthofen actually harbored the same doubts as in the movie as the war progressed, this motif accurately captures the grimness of war.  The aerial combat scenes were well-done and are the centerpiece of the film, and show the potential of CGI and hopefully more WWI and WWII aviation movies will build on this promise.  I was completely captivated by all the aviation combat scenes, as well as the opener in which Richthofen and his comrades "attend" the funeral of a British fighter pilot in their aircraft and drop a wreath, somewhat incredibly, into the pilot's grave.  I'm particularly impressed with the accuracy of the Albatros and Fokker Triplane fighter recreations.  Although the movie spliced the many historical figures into fictional relationships--the great fighter ace Werner Voss was a friendly rival of Richthofen's, but never a close comrade as depicted in the film; Lanoe Hawker never flew a Royal Aircraft SE-5 as it appeared well after his death--I was impressed that almost all the major characters were correctly named after their historical prototypes.

Yes, the movie twists the facts around greatly--the fictionalized scenes with Roy Brown, the RFC pilot who was initially credited with shooting down von Richthofen before facts showed the ace was downed by ground fire, will make many historians gag.  I can immediately count at least 10 facts the film morphs into fiction.  I also have to comment on one other aspect of the movie.  I thought the producers admirably included a Jewish German fighter pilot as one of Richthofen's close comrades and the movie noted at the end that this pilot never existed, but was instead a composite for the real Jewish German fighter pilots who flew in WWI.  The producers lost an opportunity here, though, in completely neglecting to depict Werner Voss's Jewish ancestry.  They could have depicted Voss's Jewish heritage instead of creating a fictional pilot.  However, if one looks at this movie as a novelized bio-pic of Manfred von Richtehofen, this is an engaging and enjoyable dramatization, marred only by the clumsy intimate scenes between Richthofen and Kate, the nurse who in real life only helped care for the ace after his head wound and remained a friend, but did not have a romance with him.  At least one German WWII fighter pilot wrote a novelized version of his autobiography--Gunther Bloemertz with "Heaven Next Stop"; Bloemertz was a fighter pilot with JG 26--and it was well-received in Germany and worldwide, eventually translated into several languages and incurring several orders.  I think "The Red Baron" can be viewed similarly.  I recommend this film for those who are interested in a period WWI aviation film and who can appreciate the spirit beyond the facts.  The movie is worth seeing for the aviation scenes alone.  Admittedly, those who demand historical accuracy will proverbially gag if they view this movie.