I found the film entertaining and Buck to be a likeable character; however, I find Buck's horse handling as documented in the film to be appalling. I wish I could give this documentary a zero because it documents such pathetic horsemanship by a man that claims to be a competent professional horseman and claims to have a "kinship" with the horse. I make my living training horses and riders to be safe, so I really resent a professional horseman like Buck, who should know better, making drama out of unsafe horse handling in order to make a buck.  This movie shows how low Buck's regard for safety and responsible horsemanship is because a horse handler in the movie gets bit in the face by a horse that was handled in an incompetent and dangerous way and even more pathetic, Buck shows this to the world in this documentary. The mishandled horse gets the death sentence as his reward for his part in this film. You showed great kinship for that unfortunate horse, Buck. Why didn't you help your dangerous horse "kin" to survive by training it? You could have made a great movie about saving a dangerous horse's life by teaching it to be safe instead of exploiting the horse's dangerous behavior issues for your glory and profits.

A competent and safe horseman would have taken safety precautions like gelding the dangerous horse before attempting training, muzzling the horse to prevent it from biting and laying it down like Buck did to the dangerous horse in the "Horse Whisperer" movie, in order to prevent anyone from getting bit in the face or other injury and to give the horse the best possible chance to learn wanted behaviors for its own survival. Buck has shown in the past that he knows what to do with a dangerous horse like in the "Horse Whisperer", movie; Buck laid the dangerous horse down and Robert Redford did not get bit in the face. Instead of safety and responsible horsemanship in this film, we see a man get bit in the face and a horse get the death sentence. It is sad that so many view what is shown in this movie to be 5 stars. Do any of you really care about horses? This documentary showed 0 star safety and horsemanship. Buck should be ashamed of himself.

Buck, please, apologize to the horse world for this pathetic performance and donate your profits from this horse abuse movie to a horse welfare group that will rehabilitate problem horses instead of putting them to death. Buck and your fans, do you really care about horses? Put your money were to your mouth is!