To start off, I'm not even in college or even 15, and I loved this movie. I've seen old school and all the other same genre movies but this is my favorite right now. The story is told through Barry (Tom Green) giving a tour of Ithaca University. His complete lack of knowledge and smart-alec attitude make for some very funny moments some of which are in the deleted scenes on this dvd. After having the tourists "take a good look at this tree" and informing them that the 1954 on the library is "the address, ok? Wise a**." he starts the story of Josh (his roomate) going out with the same girl since he was five then them going to different colleges then josh cheating on her on video tape then the tapes gets accidently sent to her "It was  a journey that would change their lives forever, the end" Tom Green says before starting the main part of the movie. I won't give away the ridiculus but funny ending though there are some parts which had my friends and I practically laughing non-stop. One of which is throughout the movie it switches back to Barry (Tom Green) feeding Mitch (Boa Constrictor) a mouse. He's uncontrollably obseessed with 'feeding time' and at one point says "he tastes good Mitch, he tastes good" Then puts the mouse in his mouth right before having the boa constricor swallow half of his arm. He starts yelling and swinging his arm around then the boa constrictor flys off and hits this professor in the neck. I won't give away the scene where they stay at Barry's grandparents house though I will says it involves marajuana, talking dogs, and medicine. Its been a long time since i've laughed this hard and that was probably when I first saw Old School (Will Ferrel) and Blazing Saddles (Mel Brooks) which are also really funny movies. I have to say though Tom Greene and Sean William Scott often steal the show with 'feeding time' and "what? for this? Bob Hope can jump this bridge in a wheelchair so we can do it in a car"

This movie isn't alot different from the rated version but it has some worth owning deleted scenes and trailers.

This movie isn't really a 'family movie' but it will appeal to anyone who likes sometimes outrageous and bizarre humor. There is nothing too over the top that you wouldn't see in an R movie. Well then again Barry's grandparents...

This is a great movie and I hope this review will influence your decision. But parents, I reccomend watching this before or with your kids because there are some scenes that might be deemed inappropriate but it all depends on how easily you can be offended.

I could go on for about a page and and half talking about this movie but i've got other stuff to do. So take my advice, rent or buy it(I think its worth buying) relax and watch this keeping in mind to view it as a comedy and enjoy some of the craziest scenes ever to glaze the often somewhat smudged screen of the fabulous world of comedy.