I Swear, people think some of these events are surreal or unbelieveable.  I worked a restaurant for almost 2 years.  We had the power trippy manager (well, more like 4) and the kitchy looking floor.  We also had the characters left and right that make this movie what it is.  We had our own version of the penis showing game, albeit more tame.  We had times where we'd rag on the customers behind their back...Nothing we did had to do with manipulating food, because we had an open kitchen, and we werent that mean spirited.  We had a back area where 90% of the employees smoked and took breaks.  It was sort of eerie how good their realism was here.  I saw this film with about 10 coworkers right after work, and we all screamed and talked back to the movie with feverish intensity.  It was a time I doubt I will ever forget.

The story centers around a group of servers who work at "Shenaniganz" an Applebees type chain in the southern united states. They're all in or have just finished college and they all in one way or another hate their job.  From the horny cook to the sexually frustrated underage hostess, we get a glimpse at the comradery and comedy that abounds at a restaurant job.  Ryan Reynolds plays the ring leader, and is supported well by Anna Ferris and some talented unknowns.  Andy Milonakis is surprisingly funny as a diminutive teenaged "wigger."  There like stated in other reviews really is no story but this has a more documentary feel in some ways...mockumentary if you will, even if that isn't what the filmmakers intended.  The only thing about this movie I didn't like and i'm sure I'll get a few jabs for this, is the casting of comedian Dane Cook in a small role, that still shows people that he is obnoxious, unfunny, and IMHO someone I can barely stand to look at.  It isn't until the end when he gets chastized by the newest employee that I feel he is given a proper send off.  The film grossed a modest 16 million, but was only in theaters for a limited time, somewhere around 2 weeks.  Budgeted at a shoestring 3 million dollars, and picked up by LionsGate after being shelved for an entire year, this was a critical flop, that resonated with workers all around the country, and has become a bit of a cult classic.  I visit this film with memories in my heart and laughs in my belly.  A really good time, and even more fun to talk back to, this is right up your alley if your sick of all the Scary Date Movies that have been coming out lately...Enjoy!!