Wing Commander a movie based on a computer game series, not excactly the most flattering reputation to have. Considering the likes of disaster video game to movie transfers like "Street Fighter" "Super Mario  Bros." and "Mortal Combat". But surprisingly enough this  movie had a few tricks up it's sleeve. Some of them even gave a run for the  money for a picky viewer like me, and that's seldom. Even though I watched  the movie on my own home entertainment center on DVD format(Digital  versatile disc, movie on cd format), I was surprised over the massive dolby  digital sound effects as well as the astonishing special effects,  brilliantly programmed by the Digital Anvil effects corporation. The DVD  sleeve states, and i quote "An action packed thrill ride!", this  is actually one of the most used clich&egrave;s in movie critique, but I actually  think that this is one of the movies that really deserves the use of it.  
The movies storyline is as before mentioned built on a computer games  series, Wing Commander. The Wing Commander series, which consists of 5  games(the last three being interactive movies starring Mark Hamill as  "Lt. Blair". Mark Hamill is also known for his performances as  Luke Skywalker in the Star Wars movies), was created by the Englishman  Chris Roberts as well as directed by him. Chris Roberts also directed the  movie, as well as creating the storyline and characters which were taken  from the third computer game in the series "Wing Commander 3 - Heart  of the Tiger". Having played the game, I might ad that he did a  brilliant job in bringing the characters from the interlaced computer  screen to the silver screen.
The storyline in the movie takes us on a  journey with Leutenant Christopher Blair(Freddie Prinze Jr.) a half human,  half pilgrim(the first human space explorers, believed to have developed  amazing navigational and space exploration skills). Blair is introduced to  us as a pilot commanded to relieve a pilot post on the battleship Tiger  Claw. On his way to the Tiger Claw he recieves a message from Admiral  Tolwyn aboard the cruiser ship "T.C.S Vanguard" stating that the  space station "Pegasus" had been destroyed by the Kilrathi. An  evil race of human sized space cats on two legs, which are really the only  big downer in this movie(Not because of that they're an evil race of human  sized space cats on two legs, but because of their poor design. Which  deviate from the original design they had on the computer game, in which  the Kilrathi were brilliantly designed by the way). The Kilrathi had also  gotten their paws on some critical navigational data to jump-point  coordinates leading to earth. Joining Leutenant Blair in his fight against  the evil cats is leutenant Todd Marshall(Matthew Lillard). A loose cannon,  appropriately nicknamed Maniac. Fresh out of flight academy Lt.Blair and  Lt. Marshall don't know what to expect but they could never imagine the  fate that awaits them.... The storyline let's the people who have played  the game recognize many of the old characters as well as meeting new ones.  The storyboard could easily have been adapted as an addition to the game  series. But as well as giving the old Chris Roberts junkies alot of rewards  for being faithfull gamers, a viewer who is totally unfamiliar with the  Wing Commander concept can join in and have as lot fun as the old fan. And  those new viewers who enjoy it might continue the adventure by themselves  through the Wing Commander games. So you might say it can be enjoyed as a  total experience. First see the movie, then play the games. 
The  perfomance of Freddie Prinze Jr. is astonishing as Lt. Blair. Although we  know him as a teen idol for girls through movies like "I know what you  did last summer" &amp; "She's all that", this is his first  film were he also appeals men as both an entertainer and actor. His idol  image is still there, but his handling of space crafts and fighting makes  him a more macho idol than before. This gives him leverage to give his  character both a sensitive and a masculin side, which let's the plot  include spiritual content as well as the action. Before mentioned Matthew  Lillard is also a name to look out for in future coming movies. Known for  his portrayals of complicated, deranged teens in films like  "Hackers", "She's all that" and "Scream", he  knows how to play somewhat of a maniac. But we also get to see the more  serious sides of his acting talents, which could mean a major shifting  point in his career. Because of director Chris Roberts nationality, he has  been smart enough to take in many of Europe's most experienced and talented  actors as well as his standard american cast. The most known of the  European cast are, Frenchman Tch&egrave;ky Karyo("Commodore Taggart".  Starring in films like Goldeneye, Dobermann and Badboys), German J&uuml;rgen  Prochnow("Commander Gerald". Starring in the giant European  blockbuster Das Boot), British talents include Saffron  Burrows("Devreaux"), David Suchet("Captain Sansky"),  Ginny Holder("Rosie Forbes") and David Warner("Adimral  Tolwyn"). Each and everyone of the European actors are known as  serious character actors. Some of them have even taken former characters  they've acted and used them as inspirational sources for their roles. One  great example is J&uuml;rgen Prochnow starring as "Commander Gerald",  who uses, in my belief, his greatest performance ever. His role as the  U-boat captain in Das Boot, to power boost his portrayal of the Tiger Claw  "Commander Gerald". Other European performances worth mentioning  are Saffron Burrows as the wing Commander who get's involved with Lt. Blair  and Ginny Holder as the fighter pilot who falls in love with Lt. Marshall.  
This is a blockbuster movie with a good story, terrific acting, an  exhilarating score composed by Kevin Kiner and special effects that will  blow you away. Whatelse could you ask for in a movie!  I hope this review  gave you some insight to the movie as well as the urge to go see it. In my  opinion the only way to really describe Wing Commander in as few words as  possible is "Wing Commander IS a must see".