Pocahontas was the 1995 follow up to Disney's blockbuster success of The Lion King. Although it didn't manage to even gross half of what TLK did, it managed to pull in over $141 million domestically, which is quite respectable. Many don't care for it because of its historical inaccuracies. For a while as of late, I did push it aside and thought that I no longer cared for it like I did. However, when Disney announced a 10th Anniversary 2-Disc DVD, featuring a new extended version of the film with the previously and wrongfully deleted If I Never Knew You song, I decided to get it and gained an all new appreciation for the film, its themes, and its visual beauty...an appreciation I never had at 12 when I first saw it.

The transfer is much better than the Gold Collection DVD, which was riddled with grain and softness. There's not a speck of grain or any other video flaws. Audio is excellent. It's kind of hard to believe Pocahontas is 10 years old. And the film finally feels complete now that If I Never Knew You has been restored into the film.

While not as packed as a Platinum Edition, this DVD is thankfully void of the countless games (Instead, only one game is included here.) and cheesy pop remake videos and gets down to the MEATY stuff. The two videos for the pop songs heard during the end credits ARE here, however, but they all provide nostalgic fun while looking at videos riddled with mid-90's video cliches. Nostalgic fun. Also included is a 28-minute making-of docu produced in 1995 for the Disney Channel. It also includes cliched mid-90's touches. Nostalgic fun, yet again. It's also surprisingly not completely fluffy. Also included are various featurettes on the premiere, the making of the If I Never Knew You scene, and the music, as well as an early presentation reel featuring an early demo of Colors Of The Wind, deleted scenes, and theatrical trailers.

For a non-Platinum disc of a more overlooked film, Disney has certainly given Pocahontas an awesome DVD treatment, complete with a deleted song. I definitely recommend it, and I hope Disney does something similar in 2006 for the 10th Anniversary of another cruelly overlooked classic, The Hunchback Of Notre Dame.