OMIGOSH. YES. YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES. Can I repeat that? I'm wanting to. I want to jump up and down and scream with delight...or go into crazy adrenaline mode like I did the other day when I walked out of the movie theater, my face covered in awe and wonder and true love and delight and amazement and pure inspiration and incredulity at this movie.

I honestly have NOTHING bad to say about it. Not only was it extremely clean (besides a few hilariously placed cuss words and chest-showing damsels in distress), but it was just freaking phenomenally incredible. Do I make sense here? Is my brain befuddled and therefore befuddling you? I'm befuddled. This movie befuddles me. Hopefully you can make sense of this... ;)

So what was there in this movie to look forward to, to love?

First off, great music. If you listen to the soundtrack, you'll understand. Paul Haslinger - look him up.

The modern vibe. I wasn't sure if I was going to like that part of it, but I did. Man, oh man.

Then there was the cast. Ohhhhhh!! Whoever did the casting is a genius. These actors/actresses were perfect for their roles. I don't remember if there was once a line uttered wrong for the scene. Nothing about the actors and their talents was cheesy. Even actors (coughOrlandoBloomcough) who I've never appreciated the acting of were perfect for their parts and said everything perfectly and did everything perfectly. Was it the director or something? Dang, these guys nailed it.

The filming was beautiful, as was the editing and CG. Oh man I want to live some of those scenes just because of the color and the way everything was so lifelike...and yet not.

Then there were the costumes. HOLY SMOKES I wanted to wear every single dress in this movie; heck, I would have even tried on a man's outfit just for the sake of it. They were all extremely colorful and grand and beautifully detailed.

They did all their own stunts. I mean, come on! Does it get better? Yes. Yes it does.

Then, there was the dueling, the sword fights. It was like...art. Seriously, every move was like a hand-crafted porcelain from a master, perfectly placed and excellently choreographed, like a dance, or a poem.

And the story line/characters. What the heck! It was fantastical. The story line was nonstop action and adventure. Every plot and subplot was carefully placed, every line written for a purpose and for the immense enjoyment of the movie-goer. I couldn't believe my eyes - everything was so intense, all the colors, all the action. Toward the end, I thought I was in the climax, but no, I wasn't. Things kept going wrong - and getting worse. I thought I was seeing the end, but then some other problem arose and was bigger than the last. The final blowout scene was satisfying and amazing. The best scene. WOW.

And....I've been saving the best for last. Drum-roll please!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

LOGAN LERMAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Ok, so I've had a thing for this guy since I saw "3:10 to Yuma", where he played with my all time favorite (Christian Bale) and nailed his role. In "Percy Jackson", he was the best thing about that movie (which sucked). And now, here, in this movie, he not only has a leading role, he has, what appeared to me, *the* leading role.

Let me give you an example of how good Logan did at taking on his role. You know those characters, those who are new at whatever their task is, those who are very innocent an naïve and who do extremely embarrassing things that make the reader/watcher cringe in horror for him/her? Well, D'Artagnon could have been one of those characters. He did do some things that showed his naivety, but I never once cringed in painful embarrassment. I laughed. Heartily. Because the things he did were funny, and lessons learned. And even if the girl didn't fall for his flirty charms, I DID. Like, from the moment he opened his mouth. From the moment he whipped out that beautiful sword and fought off like twenty men before he received help.

How did he do it? I ask myself. He perfected his role, made for laughter and entertainment, as well as a character who you could respect even while he is learning. That is what I call fantabulous acting. I hope he becomes one of the greats. :D

And those are the reasons why this movie gets a 10/10 from me!! :D (And why you should somehow go see this movie right now!!!)