I was born and raised in the movie business, and I've met many actors, writers, producers and directors, and I've come to believe that any good film has to tell a very good story whether it's fiction or a "true story", none of this Avatar junk.  In addition, a movie has to have been edited as a work of love and not something to shoved down the throats of moviegoers, at $8-$20 a pop.

Das Boot is one of the greatest films ever produced.  Based on Lothar-Gunther Buchheim's novel, the film tells the story of a German U-boat crew in early 1941, at a point in the war in the Atlantic where the British are turning the tide against the Kriegsmarine.  The captain of the boat is bemoaning the fact that many of the "Old Gang" have been killed in a war he despises, and the captain also bemoans the fact that his crew is mostly made up of kids who should be home with their mothers.  He says he feels as though he's on a Childrens Crusade.

As the story unfolds, we are now members of the crew because we are inside the boat in the upper and lower decks, and we get a real sense of what it is like to be crowded (50 men)in a submarine that always reeks of diesel fuel, sweaty bodies, and damp clothing.  The recreation of the submarine made you feel that you were really on the boat

At one point, the boat is forced to dive, because of an enemy destroyer attack, where depth charges are dropped in the hope that one or more of them will cause the boat to implode and sink.  You see the very real fear on the faces of the crew, and as this incident is repeated thoughout the film, we see that the crew is essentially falling apart, and hope for survival wanes.

The captain and his chief officers hold things together, but it is the captain and his chief engineer who are the heroes of this boat, U-96. After many harrowing incidents, the boat, which was nearly sunk, returns to its home base, LaRochelle, France, only to be finally sunk by a British air attack.

As a former US Army soldier, I could easily identify with the fear and misery that the crew experienced.

The director, Wolfgang Peterson, made a movie so real, and so personal, that anyone who has ever been in combat, whether it is on land, sea, or in the air, can identify with.  For those who are not combat veterans, the movie is just plain great entertainment, and it is a tribute to hard work, detail, and all other human emotions that are used to produce a truly great film.