Yes, it's a shame that a lot of the main titles are missing; that the MGM Lion often roars silently (a strange effect); that there is (unnecessarily) a shot missing in "Bear Shooters" (just after the dog swims out of the picture) and a critical shot missing in "Washee Ironee"...  But still, all the great Hal Roach sound Rascal movies are here, and presented in chronological order.  True, there is some cropping in the print of "Lazy Days", but I didn't notice it anywhere else.  I don't care if a print is actually from the original 35mm negative or if it's a BLACKHAWK 16mm film, or what the sources are so long as images are clean and clear, and most of these are wonderful pristine-looking pictures (a few are not).

I compared the previous Hallmark release of "Teacher's Pet" with the new RHI print, and the print in this Complete Edition is definitely better and has fewer, not more, white specks; so they did do some restoration or they did go back to a better negative or interpositive.  On the other hand, "Anniversary Trouble" is terrible--the beginning of the title music is missing as well as the original title, and the print is old, scratched-up, it looks like mud, and the end music cuts off.  "Little Papa" is also a bad Blackhawk print, and the finale of the Roach series, "Hide and Shriek", my favorite from the final Hal Roach period, has a dark cloudy image, the soundtrack has no high frequencies, and the sound is about 3 frames out of sync with the picture.  So it cannot be denied, the advertisement at the top of the box set "remastered * Restored * Uncut" is a lie, and as you can see from so many of the reviews, as a virtual consensus, people are sensitive about and hate being lied to, especially in advertising...

It is impossible to imagine why the people restoring these movies would do such a great job on some films, and then blow others.  It's equally incomprehensible that they would not restore the titles and the title music.  (The title music often starts a few measures into the piece, or parts are missing making the sound jump.  This would be so EASY to fix, I bet those of you with Final Cut have already done it.)

Many have complained about the sound; the sound usually seems quite bright, but I have to admit that it is sometimes difficult and even impossible for me to make out some of the dialogue.

So yes, this set will have to be re-released properly.  Some day.  But for now, my recommendation: We have this, and it's worth getting.  Get it while it lasts.  I just hope that sometime before I die not only can we get a true-restoration of these movies, but that they will restore and release ALL the Hal Roach films.  So who do we write to -- Genius?  RHI Entertainment?  Hallmark?