What can one say about one of the single most important events in cinematic history? There is not a film today that doesn't owe something to "The Birth of a Nation", the grandfather of all films. Director D.W. Griffith almost single handedly transformed film from mere sideshow curiosity to a legitimate art form in a single fell swoop.
Unfortunately however, it is hard to praise "The Birth of a Nation" without likewise condemning it. It is one of the most racist movies ever made. There are still those today who want it banned. However, in my opinion, banning this film was a question for Americans in 1915, not 2003. It has already made its mark in the world and today it is more or less a historical artifact. Rather, I think that we should be encouraged to watch it, to critique it, to praise its technical innovations and artistic breakthroughs, and to condemn its unapologetic racism and misguided moral stances. In its triumphs and its downfalls, "The Birth of a Nation" has much to teach us.
As for the film itself, it's best to research ahead of time why it is such a technological and artistic breakthrough. There are several sites on the web that discuss all of the innovations employed in the movie by director D.W. Griffith (and his unheralded cameraman, Billy Bitzer.)
Historical significance aside, is "The Birth of a Nation" an enjoyable film? In my opinion: yes, with the right frame of mind. It's a silent film, so you have to infer a lot of things from the subtitles and the acting. It's a bit like watching a foreign film in that respect, though the acting tends to be melodramatic in exchange for dialogue.
The story, about two families from the North and the South, is well told and always engaging. The first part of the movie deals with the pre-Civil War era up through Lincoln's postwar assassination. The second, more controversial half deals with the Reconstruction of the South.
Throughout we are given historically accurate vignettes, such as Lee's surrender to Grant at Appomatox. My favorite was the magnificently edited scene at Ford's Theater. On the other hand, I found it hard to follow many of the Civil War battles, which were often filmed from afar or at night. Especially annoying is the red tint that was used for scenes where something is burning. These are cinematic innovations, but they are still taxing on the eyes.
The acting is very charming. Lillian Gish, who is widely heralded as the greatest actress of the silent era, is wonderful, as are Henry B. Walthall as the "Little Colonel" and Mae Marsh as the "Little Sister." Some of the greatest scenes in the film are Walthall's mournful expressions, especially when he returns to his home after the war.
But the way African Americans are portrayed in the film is shocking and appalling. Without exception they are played as grotesque caricatures and stereotypes rather than human beings. The major African American characters are played by whites in blackface, which comes off as extremely disconcerting. Especially creepy is a so-called "mulatto" servant named Lydia who is perpetually aroused throughout the film.
Also, I have nothing against a film portraying the Ku Klux Klan in a historical epic about the Reconstruction, but the idea that a group of murdering racists were the heroes and saviors of the South is difficult to digest, to say the least.
In conclusion, I highly recommend viewing (or purchasing) "The Birth of a Nation", but be sure to do so with a critical mind and a good understanding of where the film's merits and weaknesses lie.