If ever you needed a film to showcase a woman's inner strength, this has to be up there along with Flightplan and Million Dollar Baby, another of Clint Eastwood's wonderfully crafted masterpieces.

A truly polished performance by one of Hollywood's Darlings, Angelina has come of age since her days in Girl, Interrupted. Playing Christine Collins, a single working mom in the 1920s, she epitomizes the burdensome reality of juggling work with the duties of looking after a 9-year old son, Walter.

The movie doesn't really strike you until the moment the young boy spills the beans on the goings-on in the ranch to Detective Lester-Ybarra. Before this, those watching will probably be thinking that this is just another run-of-the-mill "Woman standing up to corrupt police" movie.

It's just shocking that the powers-that-be in LAPD would allow such practises like the dastardly Code 12 to go unaudited. It is a "law" that allowed police officers to really just play god and condemn anyone they didn't see fit to live in society. It's just degrading the conditions the women suffered in the asylum, most notably the electric treatment administered to keep them in line.

I must add though, that I thought Jason Butler Harner gave a pretty convincing portrayal of the psychopath in the same vein as Norman Bates.

In the end, it's only just as well that justice prevailed to uncover what must truly be one of the most shocking truths in the history of LAPD. However if one were to ponder, not much has changed in the quality of the Police Systems in California in recent years I fear, most recently the New Years Day shooting of an unarmed suspect by an officer in Bay Area shows that there are still cops out there who take matters into their own hands.

In conclusion, a truly great movie to watch and if one were to be asked what they could draw from watching Changeling....it would be the relentless pursuit of justice and most importantly, COURAGE! Courage to stand up for what you believe in, love and hold dear.