While I can't say this concert, as viewed on the deluxe DVD, is great, I can say it is damn good.  For those feeling that Cornell is not energetic enough or seems to be lacking passion, I would submit that he is a changed performer; a much more conscientious singer than when he was the frontman of Soundgarden.  Though I loved SG, he gave some of the worse vocal performances I've ever heard.  Conversely, I think that these days his principal focus is sounding 'good' and not embarrassing himself; perhaps to his detriment, depending on how one looks at it.  I, personally, am impressed with the change, which seems to also coincide with a total change in perspective, as inferred from his lyrics and the few anemic interviews I've read.  Of those interviews, a short one in Maxim (I believe)refers to his voice coach.  I think he is a better performer all around for taking such a serious tack.  And one doesn't need to jump around and writhe and go berzerk to convey emotion, either.

There are some rough spots.  I didn't particularly care for 'Black Hole...' It seemed to me that he never completely let go, and that it may have even been performed impromptu.  Towards the end of the show, he definitely shows signs of waning, but these are to his credit; younger men could not have pulled off as long a show, and displayed as much range, without withering sooner.  (Proof that Cornell has grown is his ability to expound on, and alter, the melody--something he tried but often failed at with SG.  I thought he did this beautifully with the bridge on 'Like a Stone'. ) Still, many are correct in asserting that he should not have taken on a Rage song; it was disingenous to my ear, and sounded horrible besides.

'Heaven's Dead', 'The Worm' and more or less all the Audioslave songs, were performed really well, both from a vocal and supporting band perspective.  I thought the SG songs performed were the weaker moments for CC, while his band played admirably but uninspired.  I wonder why there wasn't a longer break for the whole band, but that's a little off subject.  This was a solid, heart-felt performance, tempered, if not by the audience, then by the import of the event.  I only give it 4 stars because of the aforementioned lack of sound quality (though I'm glad the aspects of the show were not altered too much), and the somewhat spotty performance.