This is a ridiculous movie that attempts to trivialize the negative impact of habitual (or even recreational) marijuana usage.  The tests are meaningless, afford no control group(s) protections, no objective and independent analysis of findings, and are worthless as they are biased by Doug Benson.  He uses comedy to disarm the material, using the laugh factor to perpetrate a fraud, which is not a new tactic when trying to overcome credible studies that don't fit your personal desires.  How will this endorsement of an illegal drug help the cause of the common man?  How do the comparisons of this `entertainer' relate to the audience?

No one in the viewing audience will have the luxury of traveling around, getting high, and trying to make people laugh as a profession or lifestyle.  Doug Benson doesn't have a comparable lifestyle or profession to 99% of the American public, and some would say he doesn't have a job at all. He has no job conformity requirements to adhere to such as defined work hours, dress code, language, or proven professional capacity - he's basically a professional slacker who gets through life by making people laugh (bet you knew a few of them in high school).  Isn't that one of the examples of the negative side of marijuana use?  Perhaps that's why Doug Benson seems so well adapted to a life of marijuana use - the negative impact on life success for the average marijuana user is exactly what he needs to be successful. So for the other 99.9% of marijuana users who can't work as professional slackers, they should follow his example?

 Regardless of how humorous the comedy, or the validation of the pot-heads who feel vindicated by this movie, it really only serves to undermine factual studies that show the true impact of both short-term and long-term marijuana use.  It also endorses criminal drug use that involves the worst type of criminal element in America, costs countless lives (both criminal and innocent victims), and tarnishes the memory of good American's who have given their lives trying to make America drug free. What's next, a movie showing how Doug Benson can consume copius quantities of alcohol while both his manual dexterity and mental acuity improve, vindicating all the drunk drivers out there?  It's just another disingenuous look at drug use, and I fear that our media oriented youth will find it all too easy to follow Benson's example over the teachings of parents, academia, and social systems.

Watch this, and then watch `Generation Rx' and note the parallels of escapism and drug use to create or modify perceptions of normalcy and conformity - and in the end someone is always making a huge profit.