For those already familiar to the series: This set of DVDs offers some decent bonuses- you'll find that it includes an expanded version of the midseason cliff-hanger "Resurrection Ship" with some deleted scenes incorporated into the show.  I liked this a lot, because watching the deleted scenes seperately from the show/movie usually loses some of the impact of the scenes.  This alone makes the two part season purchase worthwhile in my opinion.  The other extra material is standard- commentary and making of features.

In the second half of Battlestar Galactica's second season, you will enjoy the resolution to the arrival of the Pegasus in the climax of "Resurrection Ship".  The show also brings the resistance movement on Caprica into better focus, and makes the characters there more important to the overall story.  One aspect of season two that I am not completely sold on at this point is the expansion of the Cylon's internal structure, as expressed in the Cylon war-hero story.  I think I enjoyed the mystery and confusion behind their true motives.  It would be a shame for the arch-villains to become predictable and stale.

For those already addicted to this show, 2.5 will satisfy you to a point, but I believe the finale will only be justified by where the show goes in season 3.  Right now I am a little skeptical, and will even go so far as saying it approaches the hokey sci-fi clich&eacute;s (granted, clich&eacute;s that we all like to watch) that the show has so assiduously avoided so far.  One thing the final episode will do is set up a whole new string of story possibilities in the coming season/seasons; it is such a crazy ender that I don't see how they can possibly resolve the issues in the first episode or even entire season 3.  Maybe that's what the whole idea ultimately is about: creating more story possibilities.  The final cliffhanger is not quite as emotional as the assassination at the end of season 1, but it will leave you wanting more.

If you happen to be a new to this sci-fi phenomenon, I highly recommend you first watch season 1.  This series is not the typical sci-fi that is `plug and play' at any point in the series (ala most Trek series).  If you jump in midstream, you'll probably find yourself asking "what the ____?" and "why do I care about this character?".  This quality is one of the shows strong points, conflicts are not resolved every 50 minutes and tidily packaged so that the next episode will be back at square one.  Like real life the problems and troubles often follow the characters through their journey.  And I will add this - Battlestar Galactica manages to bridge the gap between `sci-fi' people and people who typically don't watch sci-fi.  I can say this with nearly complete certainty.  I am a sci-fi person in the military, and I have enjoyed spreading this show around- despite many initial and long term refusals.  Right now the tide has turned and most of my fellow officers and many men in the battalion are hooked on the show.  So give it a shot, you won't be disappointed.