I just got National Treasure  Boof of Secrets on Blu-Ray yesterday and am just blown away at the bonus features. Disney is just blowing the competition away with its stellar bonus features especially the ones exclusive to blu ray. i also have HD-DVD and have to admit the bonus features are becoming better on blu ray. There is a feature called Book of History:The Fact and Ficton oF National Treasure: Book of Secrets. Its part trivia game part factoid and parrt documentary. Its a game while the movie is playing but the presentation is just phenomenal. The movie is framed and there are four icons that you select when highlighted. You click on it and either a factoid a fact or fiction trivia question and its keeps track of your score and whats amazing is that if you have a great score you unlock bonus footage not seen anywhere else which is a clip of nicolas cage at the lincoln monument. Also when you click sometimes appear photo presentaion with audio commentary.
Just amazing. I stayed up til nearly 3 am playing the game and watching the movie.
Here is a list of bonus features on blu ray

Exclusive to Blu- Ray
Book of History...
2 additional deleted scenes with intro by director john turtletaub

Additional Features
The Treasure Wheel-Outakes and Bloopers
Audio Commentary with John Turtletaub and Jon Voight
Secrets of a Sequel
The Book of Secrets:On Location
Street Stunts:Creating The London Chase
Inside the Library of Congress
Underground Action
Cover Story:Creating The Presidential Book
Evolution of a Golden City
Knights of the Golden Circle

I admit I love Nicolas Cage and he is great
I was reading here that Harrison Ford would have been great
But it might be too close to the indy films
they are both treasure hunters
but it would have been great either way
but i am glad nic cage was the lead

anyhow
if you have a blu ray player
dont waste your time with the standard dvd realease
get the blu ray edition
it will blow you away

it seems that when hd dvd became obsolete
blu ray has really stepped up
but disney has gone above and beyond the call