In terms of entertainment, Barnaby Jones ranks right up there amongst the best.  I have to say, I love US crime dramas from the 1970s - for me, this was the halcyon period for the detective / crime drama and this show is no exception.  Barnaby Jones is a show I consider to be somewhat underrated - it has a killer theme tune by legendary composer, Jerry Goldsmith, - so imagine my dismay when I saw an interview with the aforementioned composer in which he goes onto slate the show...! I'd not seen the programme in 18 years so was curious to see if Mr Goldsmith was correct in his derision or whether I was looking back through rose tinted glasses with regards to my memories of how good it was.  I'm happy to say it wasn't the former and neither were my memories clouded by rose tinted glasses! Barnaby Jones was never critically acclaimed but acclaim doesn't always ensure a programme is enjoyable - sometimes a show just comes together and if you think too much as to what makes it works you end up with more questions than answers - for me, this is one of those shows.  As I say, it's around 18 years since last I saw these episodes - I remember back then thinking the `Quinn Martin' announcer helped to date the show's titles and this was only reaffirmed upon viewing these discs! I live in the UK and actually received my copy today. I've watched a handful of episodes thus far and it seems that each episode runs at circa 51 minutes. The picture quality is very good with what appears to be crisp remastered images. With the exception of the episodic trailers; there are no extras on the discs. Also at just 13 episodes this is a complete Season 1 DVD release. You may argue that at the price, this is a lot to pay for what effectively seems like half a season. However; these are 13 decent episodes of classic television.  With 8 seasons in total, I sincerely hope that the show will continue to be released in complete seasons. That said, I have to say that  my interest in the show waned circa season 5 - this was the season that Barnaby took a back seat and Mark Shera joined the cast. Forget the price, take a punt on Season 1 and enjoy a few escapist hours with Mr Jones.