I appreciate a good Chan-Wook Park film. I loved his Vengeance trilogy and proclaim to be a fan of his work, even his short film "Cut" in '3 Extremes' was amazing. However, I do not admit to liking this movie very much. There is a style in its CGI that I confess to being impressive. Instead of watching a film like 'Transformers' where you are constantly unsurprised by its over-compensation of SFX talent, you are fascinated by "Thirst"'s mysterious working of simple yet mystifying tricks. You know there has to be some wire-work in some scenes of this film, though there are some parts where, like trying to guess the secret behind a magic trick, you are left dumbfounded as to how they pulled that off without an over-elaborate tooling with a computer. The intriguing characterization, powerful performances, and magician-like special effects isn't enough for me to like this movie. I don't shy away from erotic movies; so understand this was not the part of the film that bothered me. I suppose I'm biased in not appreciating the protagonist's dramatic conflicts, but it just can't be helped. I appreciate his character's development, however I wish to argue that he should have made more changes when they were necessary. The heroine's character is just heartbreaking to review, because she is, like many males encounter in life, just--pardon my crude opinion but--a silly, tragic yet harebrained, bloodthirsty nympho that just seems more like a child than a sympathetic character. One can tell that the director tries to, once again, present his beliefs in "Vengeance Is Never The Answer," though I feel it burns the movie's integrity altogether ruining a masterpiece that could have been legendary. This was an artistically inspiring take on the vampire trend nowadays, and was original in its own tackling of the over-popular franchise. But in the end I felt truly sad, even though I never shy away from compelling tragedies, but I tragically cannot admit to feeling satisfied with this Chan-Wook Park film. I hope he returns to his jaw-dropping talent and makes a comeback. So in a nutshell: SFX, decent character development, and originality makes this interesting...but altogether not enough to champion its downfall.