The Friday the 13th films have always interested me. The movies themselves are scary but yet are devoid of a real plot,hammered by an extremely low budget,and have really no character development at all. But for some reason, people don't seem to mind this. The movies are entertaining enough,and having a very low budget only seems to make the movies feel more creepy. In Friday the 13th-The Final Chapter (yeah right!) there really isn't much more to add if you've seen the first 3 films. You know Jason is going to rise from the grave and kill some teenagers (or rather people in their mid 20's playing teenagers),and you know there is going to be a lot of gory, grisly deaths.
Makeup master Tom Savini returned for the last time in the series to create the films extermely disturbing death scenes. Young Corey Feldman appears as Tommy Jarvis, a 12 year old obsessed with video games and creating his own monster masks and makeup. When a group of teenagers rent the house next door to the Jarvis family, Jason returns to Crystal Lake to kill everyone. That's pretty much it plot wise, you see dumb teenagers going outside in the middle of the night by themselves to take a little midnight swim (take a guess at what happens to them..) This movie is a horror movie and follows the formula of dumb characters doing dumb things, but that's all part of the fun with these type of films, guessing how and who's going to die next. 
The DVD itself is extremely disapointing with the bonus material being nothing more than a lame theatrical trailer. Even the transfer is a total let down. Has it improved from the VHS version of the movie? Sure, but not much. The image quality is in  terms pathetic on how the movie could look compared to other films that have been digitally remastered. The sound is even worse. A flat mono track is the only availabe sound option. Thanks a lot Paramount. It amazes me how Paramount can produce a profitable franchise that was so sucsessful it has 8 (soon to be nine sequels) and not give it any special attention at all. Obviously if there are that many sequels made there is a huge number of loyal fans to these films who are given absoulutly nothing in return. Without the fans, this series would have ran out of steam a long time ago. Maybe someday the loyal fans of this series will get what they deserve. My applause goes to New Line Cinema who now holds the right to the franchise. Maybe someday they can buy the rights from Paramount and produce a collection similar to the outstanding Nightmare on Elm Street DVD collection. One can only hope. To sum up this very long review, the movie itself is worth watching, but spending over $20 on this bare bones DVD? Do yourself a favor and buy the VHS version for $9.99. This DVD would be better used as a coaster. Thanks for nothing Paramount!