Once in a very rare while, I walk out of a movie theater feeling as if I've been in outer space for a billion light years.  Things still look the same, but they don't feel the same because I've changed radically.  I feel ALIVE!  This is a story about a crossing over from life to living.  Which is also to say that it is a story about amazing grace (or one can say an amazing story about grace - take your pick).  One truly realizes how much one is alive when one faces death.  Not the "there but for the grace of God go I" feeling we get as we pass a poor soul who is killed in a traffic accident on the freeway.  It's the feeling one gets when one has to really confront the "this is it, this is my death -- now!" reality that sends icy shivers down the back of your neck.  Only two things can happen.  You either really do die, or for some inexplicable reason you survive insurmountable odds and go on living.  But you have still transcended life because somewhere in that core of terror, you let go of life and all of your fears.  And with fear obliterated, so is prejudice.  You will gladly reach out and clutch the hand of a total stranger.  You've transcended all the pettiness in your life, and even some of the passions.  You are vitally connected to everything but simultaneously disconnected, since everyone else is on that other plateau of being alive but not fully living.  James Joyce called it an epiphany, and it is a feeling that comes with facing one's mortality head on, taking mind-altering drugs, long-term practice of meditation, great sex, listening to certain pieces of music, eating mocha hazelnut fudge ice-cream, and seeing movies like "Fearless".  
You'd think with death being so common in movies, and certainly in our lives, there would be more films about how one faces death in ways in which we can vicariously experience it with the character(s).  We all have to face it eventually.  I suppose it's 'easier' to watch death from a distance, but it's far more satisfying and therapeutic to live the experience vicariously.  Few films can achieve that narrowing of distance between audience and screen.  Peter Weir is a master of it (I actually felt as if I had disappeared in "Picnic at Hanging Rock"!), and Jeff Bridges and the deeply underrated Rosie Perez let us fill their shoes by creating honest performances that run the gamut of every human emotion.  The score also pierces you and uplifts you.  First comes the devastation, then comes the glory.  
This is one film that I actually believe that everyone should see because it speaks to everyone of every race, gender, age, class and religion, and it humbles us equally.  I would be audacious enough to call it 'death therapy", but I wouldn't want that to sound like the pedantic, 'good-for-you' movies that Hollywood usually puts out.  Think of it as "this is your life", only life as a looking glass, not a game show.
I pray that the people who made this film love it as much as I - and apparently most of the other reviewers here - do.  If they do love it, hopefully they'll present the film in its original aspect ratio, and with lots of goodies, including commentary by the two leads and Peter Weir (and while they're at it, a quart of mocha hazelnut fudge ice cream).