If you're a bad movie fanatic you've probably seen this movie. If you haven't seen it yet, now's the time! In my book this is one of the few serious contenders, along with Plan 9 from Outer Space, for the title of "Most Enjoyable Bad Movie" (as opposed to "Worst Movie of All Time," in which category neither movie even qualifies). It has that same dizzying, surreal effect as an Ed Wood flick, where you can't believe that sane adult humans were in charge. The plot and dialogue are totally inane, stock footage of dinosaurs (from One Million B.C. and Lost Continent) pops up for no apparent reason, the set (Bronson Canyon) and props (bubble machine, ham radio) are as poverty-stricken as they get, it's never boring like many of these cheapies, and Claudia Barrett gets tied up not once, but twice! The only thing holding it back a bit is that Phil Tucker was saddled with semi-competent actors (unlike Wood's stock company of rank amateurs); check out Miss Barrett's histrionic displays in particular. (I wonder if Nixon got his "peace with honor" line from her.)
As to the DVD, the box boasts a "pristine" transfer from the original source materials. While "pristine" is a wee bit strong (there is still the usual light speckling throughout) this is definitely the best I've ever seen this movie look. Compared to my Admit One VHS pre-record, the tonal scale, sharpness, and detail are vastly improved; there is simply no comparison at all (although I haven't seen Rhino's VHS transfer). The disc contains the usual chapter stops (displayed on the plain-jane main menu), trailer, and five 'advertisement' trailers for other Image releases. Overall a very nice package. The only thing keeping this from a five-star review is the exclusion of the 3-D version of the film. It can be done; Rhino has issued several 50s B-movies in 3-D on VHS (including Robot Monster), and the increased resolution of DVD would no doubt help the 3-D effects on the small screen. Why this wasn't done we can only speculate (MCA missed the same boat with their Creature from the Black Lagoon DVD). Otherwise, this is probably as close to a definitive release as this film is likely to get.