Hola Amigos;

I just watched "13 Going On 30" this lazy afternoon of the first day of 2006 on HBO Latin America here in Peru!

I really enjoy this picture but I have some quotations for the Music and Fashion of 1987 and the recreation of "13 Going On 30".

I was a kid of the 80's so I kind of remember 1987: "Walk Like an Egyptian" was the Top Single of the year standing several weeks on the Number One of the Billboard Charts, so young Jenna and young Matt should be "walking like an egyptian" rather than Jackson's "Thriller" from 1982!!

Even here in Latin America "Thriller" was already old news and out dated in 1987. If they have moved one year forward it would have been OK if they were dancing "Bad" all over the film....

The Go-Go's and Pat Benatar's "Love is a Battlefield" are from circa 1982 so I think Jenna and Matt didn't listen the latest hits but the oldies station or mom and dad old records. I don't blame them, back then I also liked to play Mother 60's records just for the fun of it...

Belinda Carlisle's "Mad About You" and Witney Houston's "I wanna dance with somebody" are few of the actual Airplays from 1987 though.

I'm aware that the songs they included in the soundtrack were chosen for commercial and nostalgia intentions only...

Although young Jenna looks very 80's in her party (she even resembles "Who's the Boss" young Samantha played by Alyssa Milano) the "popular girls" don't reflect the real fashion of 1987: Girls like that are supposed to have tons of gel in the hair to make it look big, tall and punky.

Many bracelets and necklaces Large shoulder pads in their rather 80's baggy T-shirts would have been the perfect accesories (ala 80's Married With Children's Kelly Bundy). Don't forget the thick eyebrows that were In!

Young Matt looks like a kid time travel visitor from the 70's with that parted in one side long hair (ala Danny Partridge) and so does the other "popular" guys...

It's funny to find these kind of distraction in movies trying to portray previous decades or ages specially if you actually were around...

Cesar Dominguez

A Peruvian Youngman of Honor

Homepage: http://www.infoperu.org/Cesar_Dominguez.html