Like everyone else that purchased the 1st version, I was deeply dissappointed in the video quality of this great movie. Don't get me wrong I love this movie and I consider it to be one of the best SciFi movies of all time, if not then in the 90s.

And because of fellow members within the amazon community I found out that Sony was doing an exchange program in which you could send Sony the 1st version of The Fifth Element and they would send you back the remastered version free-of-charge. Naturally, at first I was a little skeptical but I e-mailed the address provided by the members of amazon and sure enough the "exchange program" was indeed True. So I sent my "ugly" version of The Fifth Element and just today, I got the new version in the mail, free-of-charge. Along with a letter from Sony Pictures that said:

"Dear M. Cardenas

Thank you for contacting Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Enclosed you will find your remastered copy of "The Fifth Element" on Blu-ray.

Sony Pictures Home Entertainment strives to bring you the highest quality entertainment product available and we appreciate your continued support.

Sincerely,
SPHE Consumer Affairs"

Now everyone knows the story, right? Well to put it in 10 or less words: Its Amazing and was before its time. But let's skip all that stuff and get to the core of this review: The Image Quality.

In general, It does look far better than the 1st version, which was, in some cases worst than the VHS version. The image is clearer and brighter and you can really tell that Sony Pictures learned from their mistakes. And with the addition of "TrueHD" sound, those HD sound systems that you paid for can really show you why exactly you paid such a high price for them.

Overall, great movie and (finally) with a great picture. Get it if you don't have it yet OR (like me) Exchange it and enjoy.

PS: I have added a couple of pictures to The Fifth Element Gallery, to show people what's different in terms of the Cover Art of the box. Hope they help some of you guys/gals