David Gordon Green is the wunderkind poet-director of "George Washington" and "All the Real Girls," a director whose lyrical sensibility I admired even when I could see the seams.  Unfortunately, this time around, the seams are front and center.  I'm thinking specifically of the dialogue, the acting, and the aimless pacing.

To be fair, Green's dialogue has never been naturalistic.  Like Wes Anderson (another genius upstart recovering from his first major misstep), Green writes dialogue that is whimsical and highly stylized, but so completely unusual and arrhythmic that it comes off as believable.  Previously, I loved it.  In fact, it has often reminded me of the voiceovers in Terrence Malick's "Badlands" and particularly "Days of Heaven," and sure enough, Malick is a producer of this film.  Why doesn't it work here... I think the reason is that Green's previous characters (and, for that matter, Malick's) have an inherent curiosity about them, despite their lack of education.  This is not true of the characters of this film.  Brother Tim's curiosity extends only to the inedible substances he puts in his mouth, and Chris doesn't seem to be interested in anything other than staring wordlessly at his girlfriend and breaking the law.  This is not a criticism of their reaction to their deadening circumstances, it is just a sad truth about such characters: there is a distinct difference between lack of intelligence and lack of wonder, but being afflicted with BOTH, these characters have no business spouting accidental philosophy.  The canniest of the characters is the murderous Uncle Deel, but his dialogue, for all its casual sadism, provokes no thought beyond "whoah!  get OUT of there, kids!"

And then the acting... occasionally an introspective young indie director will get a crack at directing Professional Movie Actors, in a film with a Professional Movie Plot, and his delicate balance of observation, and lines that say more than they appear, is upended.  This could easily be the problem, as Green's meditative style shouldn't automatically translate to an Escape From A Killer movie.  But there's something unusual about ALL of the lead actors in this film.  Their acting seems stilted... meticulous... too professional for a David Gordon Green film (and I mean that as a compliment).  Is this a function of actors who are too polished?  Or is this Green's idea of how people talk in a thriller?  Jamie Bell in particular does not convince me.  But perhaps this has something to do with him going from cockney to rural Southern since the last time I saw him in a film.  (In fact, I should tell you that I'm automatically biased: Growing up in the South myself, I have very little patience for the Forced Southern Accent.  Do bear this in mind.)

The film itself is a strange bird... It's a thriller, but a slackly-paced one.  This does not have to be a bad thing, and in fact "Night of the Hunter," an obvious influence on this film, is one of my favorite movies.  While that film relied on otherworldly weirdness for its effect, "Undertow" opts for a more natural style.... sort of...  Green uses a handheld camera and allows for many moments of quiet observation, where the look on a face or an axe splitting wood say more than words ever could.  Yet the ever-present Phillip Glass score -- bouncy movie music with shrieking violins where necessary -- distracts more than it complements, particularly in the scenes where it is most present, the frantic ones.  And perhaps that's the biggest problem... the scary scenes just didn't scare me.  Green alternates between danger and idyll so awkwardly, and with so little variation in his shooting style (except for the music), that any building tension is lost.  And the editing is generally sloppy anyway... I don't necessarily have a problem with the freeze-frames, or the quadruple repetition of a rock getting tossed at a window, but Green has no sense of editing (and upon reflection, never has), and the film's pacing is incredibly jerky... it would be one thing if this was the result of surprising plot points, but it is simply never surprising when Deel shows up.  The audience thinks, "oh, here's Deel, I guess they're all going to run through the woods again."

That said, Green is a tremendously original filmmaker, and I'm glad I had a chance to see this film and learn a thing or two from it.  I think aspiring filmmakers could use this as a semi-entertaining lesson in why a delicate balance is upset.  It is also worth mentioning that Roger Ebert, a critic whom I trust and agree with most of the time, hailed the film as a masterpiece.  And there is plenty to like about it.  Cinematographer Tim Orr is, in my opinion, one of the most talented DP's working today, and the film looks terrific.  And the symbolism of the ending is straight out of Faulkner, and this metaphor is one of the few things

in the film that DID surprise me.

I was annoyed by Robert McKee's proclamation in "Adaptation" that every film works within a genre, and must follow certain rules, as some of the best films ever made (to say nothing of Robert Altman's entire career) revel in breaking convention.  But that might just be true of "Undertow."  By alternating between fragile rural beauty and bloodthristy mayhem, Green DOES seem to be breaking a rule... why then did it work in "Badlands," or "Days of Heaven?"  I think the answer is mystery.  We could smell the stewing jealousy in "Days of Heaven," but we didn't know how it would play out.  For that matter, Kit, in "Badlands," was so unpredictable that we had NO idea where that would go.  As for "Undertow?"  Well, we know Deel's going to kill them, unless they kill him first.  And we're pretty sure it's gonna go down in the woods.

David Gordon Green is developing a reputation as a cocky young elitist, having famously denounced Kevin Smith as "not a real filmmaker."  I hope this reputation is unfounded.  There is a lot that he can learn from this film, if he's willing, and I hope he does.  Otherwise, just as his characters came untethered, so may his audience.