Bought it the day it came out and was really stoked.  They crammed a lot into an hour and a half but I thought they did a pretty good job.  I'll start with the pros

they had a lot of the green lanterns we know and love (from the time frame of hal jordans rising of course).
the fights were great and had a lot of ass kicking.
PG-13 so it didn't feel like I was watching a kids movie.
story was great for just being 1:17.
KILOWAG!!
kind of gave me an old school vibe with the truimphant music that played every time a lantern was saved or did something epic.

now for the cons, keep in mind i'm pretty observant and picky about things but it doesn't bog down my overall opinion.

I wasn't a huge fan of the animation, it could've been done just a little better.  like the lantern logos on their chests looked like they were just thrown on there. I am glad however that they had sinestro's symbol right. the modern day animation tries to include flashy computer graphics and not so great attention to detail on the art itself.  I mean hal's chin looks like that of jay leno's.

The soundtrack wasn't the epic music we're used to such as with transformers and modern superhero movies (the most epic I've heard was titled "serenata immortale" youtube it!).  I didn't like it at first but I forgot how the old school super hero flicks were.  you be the judge.  not really a con but something I had to warm up to.

the voices could've been better.  the guardians didn't have the echoing voices like I've been used to hearing.  they kind of sounded like the old guys from twelve angry men haha.  and I always imagined kilowag to have a more raspy, vicious sounding voice.  They still did well with kilowag though.

Overall, I really liked the movie and would look forward to see more come out getting involved more deeply with the story such as including parallax, guy gardner and kyle raynor.  it's a hope but I guess we'll see what hollywood does with the live action one coming out in 2011.  so, buy the animated movie to hold you over for the next year and some change.