I'm with the know-it-all longtime Simpsons fans who bellyache about how the old days were the best. Some will disagree but any impartial viewer who watched all the seasons in order would independently conclude that the show reached its greatest comedic brilliance in seasons 3 through 8 (give or take), before falling into a dark period in which subversion was replaced by slapstick and intelligent laughs fell to cheap guffaws. In more recent seasons the series has made a comeback, and this year's great motion picture proves that Matt Groening and the team are still capable of great things. The 10th season is actually not as unsatisfying as I remembered, and might even be a little better than the very inconsistent 9th season. But still, the show was definitely in the transitional period between the golden age and the dark age.

Some actual new ideas in the 10th season include the winning Easter trilogy "Simpsons Bible Stories," and sending the family to Japan in "Thirty Minutes over Tokyo." There are also some fairly significant character developments for Marge in "...'Screaming Yellow Honkers'" Lisa in "Make Room for Lisa," and Bart in "Bart the Mother." Unfortunately the robust supporting cast is mostly used for window dressing with few new insights into the characters (except for Apu in "I'm with Cupid"), and these episodes continue my most objectionable trend in the latter seasons of the series - the simplified parodying of Homer. The once dense but lovably complex Homer keeps getting dumber and dumber, with his simplistic boneheadedness being played for cheap laughs to an extent that should embarrass the show's earlier writers and producers.

Homer is also at the root of the most pervasive writing problem during this period of the series - the Super Homer Syndrome. Having Homer take on a new occupation or wacky scheme practically every week, which are then never mentioned again, indicates a severe shortage of new ideas. This issue is also evident in the growing reliance on guest voice actors who play themselves, which also happens almost every week this season, bottoming out in awful slumfest "Sunday Cruddy Sunday." Another issue is a general lack of integration between each episode's main plotline and the side story. The most telling example is "Lisa Gets an 'A'" in which the main story explores an important ethical crisis for Lisa, only for the episode to be nearly ruined by the asinine side story of Homer raising a lobster. In a show that has maintained a mostly high level of quality for a whopping 18 seasons (and counting), some ups and downs are forgivable. But it would take the Simpsons a while to recover from these creeping weaknesses, which during the 10th season became more prevalent than the show's longstanding strengths. [~doomsdayer520~]