This DVD is SO bad! I can't believe that people are overlooking the MAJOR problems with the quality of this disc. The sound is atrocious. This, in my opinion, is due to two factors; bad directing and bad sound editing. First of all ALL of the actors are directed to speak in these hushed mumbled tones that are quite distracting. The cast is constantly speaking in whisper voices. Everything from the opening duet dialogues through to the murder scences are voiced in these hushed tones. This is a horrible directoral choice. Some of this might have been forgivable if the sound editor had worked in looping by raising the volume of the hushed voices. At least make what they are saying audible. I had to watch this movie with the sound cranked all the way up throughout just to make out what they were saying. Even with this, I still missed a lot of dialogue. The  only exception would be when the "f" word is used. It seems as though that came through loud and clear in the three dozen or so times it was uttered. Funny how Shakespeare never needed that word to get accross his point. It is a shame that the screenwriter is so talentless that he had to resort to using it so often making it virtually usless for High School teachers who might have been able to incorporate this film into a reading of Othello in their class. I guess that isn't such a bad thing since the movie is completely bad. The sound surprisingly gets a lot better suring the soundtrack moments. Blaring loud music through only to return to mumbled tones. I am not asking for The Matrix in sound quality but at the very least make what the actors are saying something we can make out without the aid of assisted listening devices! 
The performances are not all bad. Mekhi Phifer shows rage and jealousy well though because of the mumbling of lines we are never quite convinced. Julia Stiles is a one dementional Desdemona whom we never really feel anything for at all. Josh Hartnett is only average as Hugo (Iago) and he does not turn in a performance that is noteworthy. Martin Sheen is almost laughable as the yelling, whinny coach of the basketball team. His performance is a study in overacting. It is truly a bad performance by a good actor. All the performances are undermined by the mumbling directing and bad sound. I know I have spent a lot of time on this point but it completely ruins the movie.  
The only aspect of the movie that works is the original plot. If you are interested in good viewing of the Othello story go back to older versions captured on film. This DVD is frustating and not worth your time.