An Assassins' Marriage

 I highly recommend watching the movie Mr. & Mrs. Smith because people from various age groups would enjoy different aspects of the film and because there are a lot of suspenseful parts that everyone would find entertaining.  Furthermore, the overall theme of the movie is one that many people would find interesting.

 My experience with this film has always been enjoyable.  I have seen this film on various occasions, my first being when it appeared at a local theatre in town.  I also bought the film later when it first came out onto DVD.

 Ages from teenagers to adults would enjoy this film.  Teenagers mainly because it is a suspenseful story mixed with drama and comedy.  It is well done for young adults also because the strong emotion shown in the scenes is appropriate for their age as it makes the mind think.  Lastly, for the adults, there are a lot of marriage concepts and difficulties that occur that all mature adults can relate with.

 Suspense is a necessary extreme for many movies.  It allows people to become involved in the film and it definitely makes those confusing moments seem okay for you not to have total understanding.  Many people aren't faced with suspenseful situations like this on a daily basis, so when they are faced with them in movies, they seem to be somewhat uncomfortable to the audience.  When they solve the moments in the film, people feel as if they have become "one" with the film.  People enjoy suspense; it makes them feel as if they can't turn off the film.  They get hooked and connected to it because they don't know what could happen next.  Suspense is a big aspect of film that should be included on all movies in my opinion because it attracts the viewer.

 A theme is a movie is also a requirement that draws the viewers.  You can't have a movie that doesn't have a theme; it defeats the point of a film.  There has to be some reason for the movie to have been made.  The theme in this movie would be easy for people to relate to since many people have been in love or thought of it.  Love and relationship are a very common theme in many movies.

 The film is a high quality movie that everyone should try and watch if they are into a good theme, suspense, some thrills, classical cinema, and a great love story.