Gore-infested sequel to Dan O'Bannon's entertaining original is more or less a retread of the first film. Matthews and Karen return as bumbling grave-robbers who once again get chased by those brain-eating ghouls. This time around, they are really playing it for laughs. There are still elements of horror but the comedy is the star here. 
The movie opens when the army once again loses a barrel of that top-secret chemical they have been trying to keep under wraps. A group of kids find it stashed away in the graveyard and play with it, resulting in the gas being released once again. Enter Ed (Karen) and Joey (Matthews), two less-than-genius theives who have come to the cemetary to steal jewelry from the tombs. When the dead awaken, it's trouble for everyone as the military quarantines the infected town and a group of panicky people run around, trying to find a way out.
"Return" is nowhere near as good as the original but it does have fun with its script. There are some lightly-hidden references to the first film as well as downright robbing of lines from its script but it's all in fun. It doesn't take such a ridicilous turn that we can't enjoy it (ala "C.H.U.D. II"). Philip Burns, in particular, as the boneheaded drunk Doc Mandel is really good. The film's leads Dana Ashbrook and Marsha Dietlin are a little too "vanilla" at times but Suzanne Snyder as Joey's foul-mouthed girlfriend is a definite plus. Genre fans may recognize Snyder from her role in another great cult film, "Killer Klowns From Outer Space". She is more energetic in this one though as she plays the bratty Brenda very well. She isn't quite a complete mean spirit but she is just snobby and self-centered enough that we enjoy hating her character. 
What "Return 2" is missing in substance, it makes up for in gore. This one definetly goes for the juggular or should I say, skull, more than its predacessor. The original "Return" wasn't exactly a light film either but this one really plays out its bloodlust. If you hated the first movie, this won't make you a fan but those who loved it will certainly appreciate it. It stays true to the series without really offering too much new here and if you're expecting that, you will enjoy.