Before i get into my review of the movie i want to let everyone now what a huge Full Metal Alchemist fan o i am. To me both the original and brotherhood and of course the manga are such great pieces of fiction. So this movie had some pretty high expectations coming from me.

I heard about the movie "the sacred star of Milo's" coming t the U.S in theaters last year and being the avid Full Metal fan i wanted to see it (i believe i was in the middle of watching the original series). Unfortunately it wasn't playing anywhere near me so i had to wait until it came out on DVD and now obviously iv'e seen it. So here it goes.

Plot: The plot of this movie revolves around a teenage girl named Julia who wishes to bring a race called the Milocian people back to grace/ power by using a philosopher stone. She meets ed and Al who decide to help her and of course learn more secrets along the way.

Review of the plot: I was worried that this movie was going to be a big shot clich&eacute; shonen filler movie along the caliber of the Naruto and Bleach series. I can honestly say i was mostly right for the most part. this movie lacks the intelligent philosophical and raw emotional plot both Full metal series had. There were some good plot ideas don't get me wrong i found the story of of Milocian people interesting and other things but overall i didn't think it was to brilliant. The beginning of the movie wasn't done well and i only really got int it towards the end.

Characters: This movie as any filler movie does weaves the main characters from the series: Ed, Al ( of course), Mustang, Hawkeye Winry, and a little of Armstrong and Roy's men Breda and Falman ( they make very brief appearances ) with new ones.

Review of the characters:

Edward: I am ashamed to say this but i didn't particularly love ed in this movie and he's my favorite fictional character of all time probably! He felt way to generic in my opinion mostly with his dialogue . I still love the short (yes i just called him short! ) alchemist but i wasn't to fond of him in this movie, perhaps at the end was when he actually felt like the ed we know and love.

Alphonse: Al was pretty much the same as he's always been a happy go lucky boy trapped in a suit of armor. He felt like the same character.

Mustang, Hawkeye and Winry:were in it so briefly i really couldn't even tell1 such great characters serve little to no purpose in the plot of this movie. They don't even have the lovable. humor vibe between Mustang and Hawkeye that they usually do. As for Winry i don't get why they included her don't get me wrong i love her but she goes to a battle field and why would a character that doesn't fight be needed there? ( except to help ed of course). the others really are not worth mentioning because they have like 4 to 5 lines.

Julia: Our main star and biggest non cannon leading lady. probably my favorite part of this movie. She, like most of the women of full metal ( except Rose) has a strong personality and is very confident. I believe she almost could have been made my Arakawa herself.

Ashleigh: Julia's older brother ( why does he have a girls name?). I can't say much without spoiling but he was pretty interesting.

General Hershel: Reminded me so much of Yoki from the series. everything from his looks, to his personality even his voice. Not a very creative villain.

Miranda: I don't remember her name but she was an alright character. Not exactly good or bad.

Animation: The worst thing about this movie. It was poorly done and isn't Bone's usual breathtaking work. Maybe this movie was low budget. I think Edward suffered the most, his hair looked completely wrong and yellow not blonde.

Music: I loved the OST soundtrack to this movie it fit the moos usually. The opening and ending were great ( even though the opening was played so shortly i don't really remember it). I love the song "Good lucky my way" by Le arc en ciel. There back in the full metal series and i love it!

Overall: Sorry i know this has been a pretty long review but as a huge fan f the series i felt like letting everything i thought about the movie out. SO basically should you see this?: Yes i guess i would. It was entertaining and had some good parts to it. I'm just saying don't be surprised if you find yourself disappointed. People compare this to Conqueror of Shamballa and i think that's so unfair. C.O.S was meant to finish the original series off in a two hour movie tying up all loose ends. This movie though with the Brotherhood series is so unimportant to the series it's not even funny.I was told to wait until episode 20 to see this and don't get why. they don't even show Brotherhood only characters like Ling and Lan Fan or Oliver ( would have been a nice touch). Basically if you know the basic plot of full metal you can watch this. So i suppose watch it for fun one night and enjoy.