I went into this movie thinking it was going to be some slapstick comedy. Instead I got rather a drama with light elements. It is billed as a romance but it seems from the first reel the main characters are already in love or love each other, but just aren't willing to admit it to each other.  It is as if we come in at the middle of a relationship.  As as been mentioned Kassie has a shy and neurotic friend Wally. She decides to have a baby alone and not with him -- although Kassie doesn't seem to have a real problem with Wally, just again, isn't going to ask. Kassie seems to want Wally to "try harder stupid" and Wally seems determined not to do so. She continues to push forward and Wally ends up switching the donor's sample with his. Wally is drunk so he doesn't really remember doing this. Kassie moves away, again seemingly hoping Wally will say, I will go too, but he doesn't. Wally just won't put himself out there no matter what. Finally Kassie comes back to New York with her 6 year old.

Wally is stunned to find her son, Sebastian, shares a lot of his traits. Sebastian is neurotic, looks like Wally, and seems to like him too. Sebastian does not take to the man everyone thinks is his father -- the sperm donor.  Wally finally remembers what he did and that Sebastian is his son and spends the rest of the movie trying to figure out how to tell Kassie. This journey is not a slapstick one. Wally, finally has to, and wants to, grow up. While his journey here has some funny moments, they are mostly dramatic and touching. The actor that plays Sebastian was just wonderful and you really buy Wally's transformation and growing love for his son.  Wally's love for Kassie wasn't enough for him to put himself out there but the love of his son was. I think if you go into this thinking it is going to be like "just go with it" or some other Jennifer Aniston films you will be disappointed. But if you go in looking for a drama with comic elements you will be happy.

4 stars because some of the elements of the movie were not believable or did not work.  Including Kassie's interest in the sperm donor after he gets a divorce. Jason Bateman is just much better looking imho than Patrick Wilson.