Ok. To start things off, I will say that "Sex and Lucia" is VERY deserving of its unrated rating - a lot of the scenes in the film look as though they deserve to be in a x-rated flick. However, there is one thing that separates this film from an x-rated one: a good story.
A lot of films (especially foreign ones) that have a lot of sexually-explicit material in them seem to use the sex to sell the film; they might as well just say in the trailers, "Look at us! We're being risque! We dare you to watch this and not blush! Wanna see an adult film, but are too embarrassed to? Come see this instead!" But "Sex and Lucia", or in its native Spanish language "Lucia y el Sexo", is nothing like that. Yes there are many scenes that could make one blush, and yes most of those scenes are gratuitous. But what saves this film from being like all the rest is the fact that the plot is interesting. And at about half-way through when I thought I maybe knew what would happen in the end, I was proved wrong when I finished the whole movie - and was pleasantly surprised.
Lucia is a young woman who falls in love with a writer named Lorenzo. She tells him she loves him about two minutes after introducing herself. The two move in together, and what follows are the above-mentioned blush-worthy scenes. But once the film gets past all the racy stuff, what lies beneath is really a great love story, that has some tragedy thrown in for good measure. 
The film is more than two hours, but I didn't even notice - there were really no boring parts that I can remember. A soundtrack plays softly in the background, and even though you barely notice it, you are very aware of it and it sets the mood for the film. The location where a lot of the film was shot (in the scenes on the island) is beautiful and at times distracts you from the actors. And speaking of the actors, they all did a top-notch job. Now, I have seen a lot of foreign films, but this is one of the best. "The Piano Teacher" is another provocative unrated foreign film, but that one left me frustrated and depressed. By the end of "Sex and Lucia", I had a smile on my face. I think the ending will be a little surprising to some people, because it was not at all what I was expecting - it was perfect. I just rented it and watched it today, but I will definitely be purchasing it. I recommend this film to anyone who loves a good story, who doesn't mind subtitles and, oh yeah, someone who doesn't blush so easily.