Ride with the Devil is a civil war drama about the kansas/Missuori buskwackers.  It is one of the few movies which takes you into its period world so effortlessly.  It shows the true violence of the time and yet shows how that violence affected people and changed their lives.  Ride with the Devil was directed by Ang Lee, who brought us the brilliant Sense and Sensibility, this is his best work since Sense and Sensibility.  Lee knows how to make a period drama come alive to the viewer in a way that few directors can do.  Maybe its because he usually does projects he really feels for.  The acting in Ride with the Devil was supuerb.  Tobey Maguire again proves that he is the most talented young actor in Hollywood, today. He protrays a a first generation american,Jake Rodell, with such heart and sincerity, very few actors could have done that. Skeet Ulrich delivers his best and most seriuos performance to date, as Jack Bull. Singer, Jewel, gives a suprisingly good and nuanced performance as Sue Lee Shelley.  Jefferey Wright, protrays a freed black with real integrity and authority.  Wright and Maguire were horrible oversights at the Oscars. Actually, i thought the whole movie was a horrible oversight. They brought a whole differnet level to this movie with their performances.  they made you see their characters in a way that few could have done.  You truely cared what happened to them as if they were a close freind.  Wright and Maguire made you see the Civil War not as north and south but as people defending the only life they had ever known.  Ride with the Devil is a captivating movie that goes right to your heart and helps you to understand a time in America's history, when nothing was simple and everything was a battle--Freedom, your way of life and survival.  it puts a new persepective on a war with split our nation in two and hurt everyone it touched.  this movie will probably never get a big following but for those of you reading this you will not be disapointed.  so go rent this movie or be like me and buy it.  thank you Ang lee and everyone how helped make this magnificent movie!