As many others have said:

This is a fantastic series that should have gone on much longer than it did. I don't want to ruin it for anyone who hasn't seen it, but if you love the X-Files then you'll love this spin-off (and they deserved it too!).

However, when I first opened the cases for the DVD's I realized they were double-sided and the 2 discs in the first case were practically fused together. As carefully as I could, I pried them apart and there didn't seem to be any damage, but as another reviewer said, using this double-sided method was ridiculous and if you damage one side you risk both sides not working. The first disc never stays in its tray and falls out or onto disc 2 all the time.

Those things aside, my Disc 2 has the same two episodes on both sides!! I am missing 3 whole episodes!! There are only 13 episodes to begin with (14 if you count the X-Files episode at the end) which means that's 1/4 of the series I am missing! The missing episodes are:

6) Madam, I'm Adam - The Gunmen meet a strange man who "may or may not" have been transported by aliens from a parallel universe.

7) Planet of the Frohikes: A Short History of My Demeaning Captivity - The Gunmen match wits with an intelligent chimpanzee after it escapes from a government lab.

8) Maximum Byers - On a cruise ship in the Pacific, the boy's chase a man they think is Elvis, still live and kicking.

And of course, I didn't realize until just this weekend when I finally had time to sit down and watch the whole series, and now my 30 day return window has expired (by one week!) and I am stuck with incomplete, defective DVDs. I am really disappointed in this.

Great show, but crappy DVDs.

I also want to add that if this has been a problem for awhile and these were mass produced with this error, why didn't FOX recall the batch(es) with this defect??!! Seeing that many of the complaints from customers on Amazon who bought copies like this were from even YEARS ago, then what the heck Fox?! And even Amazon to an extent. Why would you continue to sell these when you know they're like this?