Having owned the 20the anniversary DVD since it's release, I was a little weary of this on blu-ray. After all, a 16mm 1:33.1 shoestring-budget film shot almost 30 years ago, would be a hard-sell on high-def. But boy, I am glad I caved.

A young man and his deformed Siamese twin, separated at birth, check into a seedy 42dn Street hotel. They soon plot their revenge against the doctors who separated them. All the while causing some other mayhem at the hotel. This a fun, trashy and gory flick. Made back in the glory of days of true grindhouse cinema, when old 42nd Street was 42nd Street, sleazy, rundown, porno theaters, etc, before the Disneyification. An accurate representation of that era in NYC's history.

Lots of bloodshed in this one, gorehounds take note.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS) A man ripped in half, a woman with scalpels in her bloody face are just a taste of what we get. Again, that wonderful ultra-sleazy atmosphere and feel. Pure guerrilla film-making at it's finest. Lots of good laughs as well,unintentional, well, yes, but that's all the fun of it. It's too bad they don't make them like this anymore.

The blu-ray picture is as good as it's ever going to be. Fully restored to it's OAR of 1:33.1(when it was blown to 1.85, a lot of info was missing)and remastered from it's original 16mm negative, natural film grain abounds. Picture looks cleaner and more watchable than ever. Some blue scratches pop up occasionally, but they did on the DVD as well. Audio is the original mono track, so purists will be pleased. Very clear sound.

Extra wise, we get a new intro by the director, the man himself, the great Frank Henenlotter. For two minutes, he explains why he did this for blu-ray and the long process of doing so. Very nice. Up next, we get the audio commentary lifted from the DVD. Very fun track as Frank and co. reflect on making this movie, it's reception, legacy and many troubles. They even mention how the great Joe Bob Briggs saved this film from being permanently butchered at the idiotic request of the long-defunct Analysis Releasing. Next of course, is the 15-minute feature In Search of the Hotel Broslin. Frank and a friend go to the locations they filmed, including the club they filmed some scenes in. Very interesting and informative. A very nice
gallery of outtakes and behind the scenes footage follows. Brief at 5 minutes, but def worth a look. TV spots, trailers, radio spots and still gallery of art are the other features. Now, the blu-ray is missing two extras from the DVD: a radio interview with Terri Susan Smith and a segment showing clips from Beverly Bonner's old TV show,"Laugh Track". Not a big deal. I will hang onto the DVD as well.

This is a must-see/own for horror/cult/grindhouse and of course a must-own for fans and Frank Henenlotter fans. Highly recommended.