Glory Road is much more than a basketball movie, although there is an abundance of good action.  This movie is about a wonderful basketball season that changed the face of basketball.  You have a coach who wants to start a "program" and will find the best team he can.  You have black players who go far from home for the oppotunity to play and get an education. It's also about the racism, hate, and ignorance all involved faced to achieve their goals, none more so than those 7 players who put it all on the line.

I kept thinking as I watched this movie, how did these young athletes who are such competitors continually walk away from the racist incidents?  I mean, you know they wouldn't come out ahead if they fought back, but these are COMPETITORS who are used to facing challenges head on.  How long can you just "prove it on the court?"  Ultimately they did prove it on the court as a team.  Race did not matter.  Haskins put best players on the court all season.  He may have made a statement starting 5 black players in the championship game, but it wasn't something he hadn't done before.  That time he did it for a reason beyond best players on the court, although that was the case, too.

I don't think Don Haskins set out to change the game of basketball.  He was just color blind and wanted to field the best team he could.  When he saw he wouldn't get the "best" players, he started looking at his options.  And he saw "best" players sitting the bench because of their race.  I doubt he ever thought that what he did was the pebble in the pond that would ripple out and change the game of basketball forever.

One of my favorite moments in the film is when the mom shows up and goes to class with her son.  I so could see this mother doing that because she could see the opportunity of an education her son was trying to throw away. Go MOM!

If you take your children (and I suggest you do), be prepared to explain a few things.  Isn't that a good thing, though, to have to explain blatant racism?  It leaves the door open to explain how you can take the next step to avoid the less obvious forms that still exist today.  Go see this movie!