The 1979 version of DRACULA certainly isn't on many a movie critics' Top Ten list of favorite vampire flicks. The first time I saw it was on cable a few years after the movie's theatrical release. I didn't pay much attention to it; barring a few interesting action scenes, I found it rather boring overall. Then again, that was my attitude toward most movies. I was 14.

Up until recently I've let that early prejudice, coupled with most of the current-day critiques, color my views in regard to this film. But having just recently watched it again, I have to say it's not quite as bad as it's made out to be. It's not the best adaptation of Bram Stoker's classic, but I wouldn't go so far as to say it's the worst, either. I must admit there are some truly creepy scenes that save this flick from being total garbage. The way Dracula slinks up the sides of castles, for instance, all the while looking up into the camera with what I can only describe as vacuous eagerness; the way he scratches at the window as fog billows around him, reminiscent of similar scenes in SALEM'S LOT (it's probably that connection which makes it creepy to me); the weird black eyes of the female vampires. Yes, the film has its moments.

The story is based lightly on Bram Stoker's original, taking place in the 1920s instead of the late 19th century. We still have the usual cast of characters, Van Helsing (Lawrence Olivier), Renfield (Tony Haygarth), Seward (Donald Pleasance), and the rest, and they go through the usual movements without much variation; the novelty, I guess, is in the fact that these parts are played by actors like Olivier and Pleasance, two actors I admire.

The film's weak points, I feel, are the romantic scenes, which can get rather mushy unless you like that sort of thing. I've never been much into love scenes, so that's admittedly a personal qualm you may or may not agree with.

In a nutshell, then, we have a passable rendition of Dracula with a few genuinely creepy moments. Suffice it to say it's not a movie I would shell out money to see, but it's okay entertainment to pass some time on late-night TV.