I just got through watching the new ..Gruesome Edition.. of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2, and though I..ve seen it multiple times, it..s still as fun as ever. This is a double dip for me, upgrading from the bare bones copy, and its well worth it. The packaging comes in a slip case with new artwork, a single chainsaw with blood splatter, resembling the ..Saw.. films. The artwork on the hard shell is the same, but with bloody limbs lying by the saw. The inside sheet looks to be another choice for cover art, the one I prefer, of Leatherface..s silhouette against a grey sky backdrop.

The disc comes well packed with special features and impressive menu screens. The special feature which stands out most is the long lost, and highly anticipated, deleted scenes. Featuring such gems as the infamous underground garage slaughter scene, and a hilarious cameo by film critic, Joe Bob Riggs. Another high point is the featurette, ..It Runs In The Family... A 6 part documentary showing behind the scenes and new interviews with cast and crew.

The main feature is presented in anamorphic widescreen, with a fantastic clear transfer. Rounding out the disc are two new commentaries. First with David Gregory (director of TCM: The Shocking Truth), and director Tobe Hooper. Second is with actors Bill Moseley, Caroline Williams, and special effects make up creator Tom Savini. While the first is informative on some things, it gets a little boring, where as the second keeps you entertained the whole way through, especially when Moseley goes into his Chop Top persona.

This release comes 20 years after its initial theatrical release, which was 13 years apart from the original. Tobe Hooper recognized that he would be hard pressed to make a sequel that would live up to the same heights as it..s predecessor, and made the decision to go a different route, elaborating on the black humor subtlety placed in the first. Highly misunderstood at the time of its release, it has since gained recognition as a cult classic in its own right.

The over the top humor and gore has kept fans coming back year after year, and bringing in new audiences continue to discover this genre favorite. Finally recognized as a stand alone classic, and the greatest of all the sequels and remakes, the new DVD edition is gladly welcomed with bloody open arms.