Among the things for which this film was criticized was Harrison Ford's faltering Russian accent. Sure, his accent wasn't superb. But what we should really ask about that point is, why is speaking English with a Russian accent (as opposed to speaking English without a Russian accent) deemed a substantially more accurate representation of what would have in reality been  dialogue in Russian? Characters who actually spoke Russian speak English in this movie so it can be understood by an audience that understands English but generally not Russian; once that much translation is part of it, accent is a minor issue. That matter aside, this movie is a remarkably revealing one about realities of the cold-war virtually unknown until now. A Russian submarine of the early nuclear era suffers a mishap in its reactor, a malfunction that threatens the crew and could well become an international disaster. The nearest help they would have had access to was at a NATO base. But their loyalty to their country vis-a-vis the Soviet system makes that appeal for help unthinkable. They were bound to protect their government's secrecy; in fact they would remain sworn to secrecy as long as the Soviet Union remained in existence. Of course it would have been better to accept the nearest available help and share their experience with the world. That would have been best not only in the interest of protecting their crew and reducing the risk of war, but also for sharing with the world knowledge of what could go wrong with nuclear reactors, in submarines or elsewhere. But the only view of patriotism acceptable to the crew at the time meant continuing in secrecy and repairing the reactor at a great price. That price involved several crew members venturing so close to the reactor's problem that they exposed themselves to deadly radiation. Some reviews have considered this a film that portrays the Russian sailors heroically, and considered that either groundbreaking or a sell-out, depending on their point of view. But either of those perspectives misses the real point. The important sense in which the movie is groundbreaking is that it lets a universal humanity be seen in the Russian crew members in the face of trial and deadly peril. Although there IS heroism on that submarine, by no means does the movie idealize the blind loyality to the Soviet system as one with that heroism. In fact the movie courageously follows up on the life of the survivors through to a day when they can at last have a new perspective on their heroism and how the clandestine Soviet government did or did not best serve them through their tribulation.