These notes I wrote at the end of two marathon sessions of experiencing the present version of Wagner's Der Ring des Nibelungen.

I am not an opera expert. I have spent a good portion of my adult life (spanning over 5 decades) in listening to classical music but I have neglected opera somewhat. Wagner's Der Ring along with some works of Bach have given me experiences that I would call "enthusiastic" (meaning I experienced god's breath). I cannot put aside my Solti Ring for any appreciable time interval.

I regret that I sat through this production. It will take me sometime to extinguish some aesthetically vulgar visual images. The purity of the images evoked by the Solti Ring as well as Wagner's archetypical conception have been adulterated for me now.

If you are new to Wagner and cannot wait to dive into the Wagnerian world you may be disappointed and even shocked to see the entire opera setting in artistically heterogeneous, cheap settings. You will perhaps be distracted by the fact that a good part of the opera takes place in the shadow of gigantic John Hancock edifices.

Barenboim's rendition is very good, although it lacks the depth of emotion of Solti`s. Singing is excellent. Acting is good. Then there is the stage floor; an aerial view of fields or cobble stones on which the actors like to lie down and roll, sometimes for no apparent reason, no relevance to what is taking place. Iron scaffolds like those used in building, up and down which actors climb, again without any apparent correlation to the nature of the particular scene. These scaffolds pop up here and there, along with rusty half demolished boiler like containers in which actors live, and of course climb on their roof and back down again. In the final opera the Rheingold maidens appear in a grotesque structure which is like a come-from-the-future elevator or maybe it is part of a sewage pipes system. In the first opera, The Rheingold, these maidens swim in the river, electronic works that are pathetically amateurish. The electronic fireworks of this production are horrifyingly ugly. Beams of light that evoke images of kids playing with laser flashlights. The killing of the dragon was visually poor and silly. By the way, the singing of the dying serpent was not dramatic enough.

The actor that impressed me was Gunter von Kannen (Alberich). Jerusalem (Siegfried) was convincing and suited to the role. Wotan (Tomlinson) was good but his physical appearance does not suit the image of father of gods. Mime (Grahan Clark) was good but I wish I had not seen The Cabaret, the movie.

Brunhilde's (Anne Evans) physical profile suited the prototype of a Valkyrie, her singing was very good (it would have been better for me had I not listened to the Solti records (Birgit Nilsson)!). However as an actress she could not at times adequately convey emotions on her facial expression.

It is my thesis that attempts to create modern versions of classical works (I include classical theater plays) tread on very precarious grounds. If they are meant to bring home to today's audiences great works of art (spoon feeding), they fail, for the same reason that translating or explicating poetry fail. Wagner's ring is a dream in the Schopenhauer, psychoanalytic conception, it cannot be explicated, it must be experienced.

The bottom line of my recommendation is that, if you want to see Der Ring on DVD and this is your first visual exposure to this great work, do not buy this. Buy it if you already own other DVD productions of Der Ring, and you want the intellectual stimulation of an experimental version.

Addendum, Sept. 30, 2012

I am pleasantly surprised, and grateful to all of you who found my review worthy of your comments. I am grateful even to those who do not agree with my thesis. Some of you are so knowledgeable that taught all of us things we did not know. I agree with the comments that true Art is produced not only in big cities such as New York or Paris. In fact the greatest obscenities, not only in opera but also in all forms of art including painting and poetry, are produced in such centers, of course, along with monumental achievements.

The question what is good art cannot be answered in discussions like the present one. It takes a lifetime of searching (not only reading or watching but searching like an ascetic searching for god) in order to, hopefully, one would have some insights on this issue. It is interesting that these insights cannot be communicated without loosing much of their meaning. At this point
I thought I might stimulate more discussion, more serious perhaps, by pointing to Wagner's views of the Arts. You may wish to read this book: Wagner, R. Opera and Drama, U of Nebraska Press, Jun 28, 1995, especially pp. 119-
I warn you it is very difficult reading; trust your instinct!

Wagner was influenced by another great book by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. "Laocoon: An Essay on the Limits of Painting and Poetry". Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans, 1853
Both books are free to read on Google Books, and perhaps archive.org.