I rented "AvP" and thought it was rather CALM. There are some gorgeous settings and spaceships as well as some great battle scenes with some truly wonderful special effects. However the blood, guts and gore that SHOULD be here, are strangely absent. An "R" rated version was made, but the company behind the movie (20th Century Fox) decided to go for mass appeal and tone "AvP" down to a merry PG-13. Seeing the actors meet their doom is/was half the fun - we'll never know until the "Director's Cut" is released. All previous "Predator" and "Alien" movies had been rated "R". The originals are now Sci-Fi classics. "AvP" should never reach the classic category. "AvP" boasts no major star power. Sanaa Lathan (who?), Raoul Bova (who?) as the main two characters and an old Lance Henriksen reprising yet a different role - no longer the droid "Bishop" who was ripped in half in "Aliens". Arnold Schwarzenegger (as "Dutch") and Sigourney Weaver (as "Ripley") where are you? Before "AvP" even hit the screen, the series was off and running - in comic books, toys, card games, lunch boxes and video games - so I'm assuming this movie was a must for Hollywood. Naturally, the cheesy ending is a puzzler where you think the winner is declared, but just before the end credits start rolling - something happens - making it ripe for a "AvP: Part 2". A few things that simply didn't work for me in this film... 1) the man-made conveyer belts in the lost civilization that the mother alien was using for all her pods (sorry, I don't believe the alien creatures were smart enough to build these); 2) Lathan's character buddying up with the Predator (oh please); and 3) there were thousands of aliens and only a handful of predators (somehow this was fair?). I give Paul Anderson credit for making this potential masterpiece, but fault him for buckling under the strong hand of 20th Century Fox. I wish Anderson was able to release the full length movie he wanted the audience to see. Here's hoping that someday we fans will get that chance. Specifics: 101 minutes long including the credits. DVD includes 2 commentaries, 3 deleted scenes, a making-of featurette, comic book info, widescreen format with 5.1 DTS beautiful surround sound. While "AvP" has been rendered a Sci-Fi success at the box office, I will wait for the "Director's Cut" (R-rated) version of the film to come to DVD before I purchase.