This film, based on the impenetrable 1991 novel by Bret Easton Ellis,  performs an act that perhaps has never been done before by any film based  on a book: it improves the story.
Not that there was a whole lot of story  to begin with: a Wall Street account manager goes to a lot of clubs and  parties, frets about restaurant reservations, delivers wry, condescending  political manifestoes to amuse his friends, catalogues his own and his  friends' clothing (endlessly), reflects in curiously erudite fashion upon  '80s pop music, and.......oh yes, commits spectacularly violent murders in  his off-hours. 
In the book, the scenes seem cut-and pasted together, the  characters and events completely interchangeable. If the story in the  classic novel is supposed to represent an arc, perhaps this story might be  well represented by a flat horizontal line. (EKG visual pun not intended.)  Ellis has trouble writing actual stories. But he has some literary gifts:  he can compose witty dialogue, composes apt descriptions of settings, and  is a decent expository writer. Somewhere along the line, Mr. Ellis may have  gotten the mistaken idea that a novel is merely the sum of its parts.  
Mr. Ellis also has a most un-writerlike knack for publicity. It is of  course this gift that made his book such a notorious success.  It was bound  to be made into a movie, and, to the delight and chagrin of many, it was.  It was not a great book. The movie, however, is very good. 
Part of this  is because violence for its own sake is more a subject for films than  books, and part is because director Mary Harron took advantage of the  book's lack of structure and of distinctiveness of its characters by  ruthlessly editing the book. She cuts out scenes, moving dialogue freely  from one character to another, moving action from one location to another.  She has eliminated all the book's novelistic pretension and fashioned a  film of visual elegance and sly wit from the remains. 
Right off the bat,  Ellis' infuriating digressions on attire are easily disposed of by, well,  the very medium of film. The characters wear the clothes. You can see them.  They're very nice. You can't afford them. Point made. 
In addition, the  book's amusing but context-free essays on pop music are woven into the  film's story as eerily out-of -place monologues by the protagonist Bateman  as he prepares his grisly work, helping define him as a person utterly  without social responsibity. In one such scene that recalls the famous  Michael Madsen "ear" dance from Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs,  Christian Bale as Bateman jogs with manic joy around his living room,  brandishing a raincoat and axe to the tune of "Hip to be Square"  while pleading the case of Huey Lewis and the News for musical posterity to  Jared Leto's drunken, hapless victim Paul Allen.
Christian Bale's  performance as Patrick Bateman is a tour de force of smugness. His delivery  of Bateman is sheer hyperbole, a caricature of the voice of a spoiled urban  prep-school brat. He must have known that this material could not possibly  succeed if it were played straight. It is the single most redeeming feature  of this film, this oddly off-kilter starchiness of  Bateman, and it is  never less than fascinating. He never betrays a single genuine emotion  (except murderous rage) , and you wonder why it works. 
I am not sure  that the reaction to this film will be what Harron intended. Apparently the  film was meant to be a withering indictment of greed and testosterone, and  yet I can visualize fraternity brothers across the country rewinding the  "Huey Lewis" scene countless times in the TV room and hooting  with glee. 
It is to be admitted that this film will certainly do nothing  to remedy the de-sensitization of the American public to media violence.  But said de-sensitization is, for many, sad to say, a fait accompli. Seeing  as how we cannot make violence truly horrifying again when seen on film, it  is refreshing to see  work by people who at least know how to make it  entertaining.