I found this movie quite by accident on TV, and I fell in love with it! I had to buy it, and have a copy of my very own! It is one of the most tender, and profound, heartrending love storys, that I have ever seen! Eventhough, the movie was in black and white, I didn't care, It was outstanding!

This movie is about a woman named Charlotte, who was a overweight ugly ducking, who became a beautiful woman, in spite of the fact, that Charlotte had a very overbearing, hateful mother.
 A kind doctor helped Charlotte with her sadness, and Charlotte ended up going on a vacation, on a cruise ship, there Charlotte met and fell in love with a very handsome man named Jerry, but Jerry was a married man, but he was still, so in love with Charlotte! And Charlotte was so in love with him, she was in love for the first time in her life!

(Betty Davis) who played Charlotte, and (Paul Henreid) who played Jerry, was awesome!I loved the chemisty between them, you could almost feel the overpowering love, that they felt for each other in this movie!
 One of my favorite scenes is when Jerry tells Charlotte, "If only I was free, there would be only one thing that I would want to do, and that would be to prove that you are not immune to happiness!" I'd show you, that you deserve to be loved!" And I liked the way Jerry lit two cigarettes, at the same time!

 I loved the beautiful, soul stirring music of Max Steiner! Wow! I LOVED the scene at the end of the movie where Jerry tells Charlotte, after they talked, to let's have a cigarette on it, and then the way Jerry lit two cigarettes, and looked at Charlotte, with his beautiful self! Oh! My! For some reason to me, that was one of the most sexy, profound, loving, romantic moments in a movie that I have ever seen, when Jerry and Charlotte was smoking they looked like they were actually speaking to each other, and yet for that brief moment they did not speak no words; you could feel and see all this intense emotion, and love! I highly recommend this movie! Simply Awesome! They don't make movies like this anymore, Oh, how I wished that they did!