Let me first say that I had never heard of Lars von Trier before seeing this and that I only happened to see a preview for the film on the IFC station late one night. As it hadn't been released yet on DVD in the U.S.A. I decided I'd rent some of his other films to gauge his style. Luckily there is a local video store nearby that prides itself on its collection of non-mainstream and lesser known cult classic titles. My first rental was Europa, which I must say I absolutely loved. I then saw the first season of the Kingdom which I also enjoyed immensely. At this point I had a fairly good idea that I liked this guy's style. So, then came Antichrist...

The movie essentially revolves around a man and a woman who have lost their child. The woman goes through a semi-mental breakdown after the incident and the husband suggests that they go up to their cabin in the woods so the woman can work through her grief. This may sound like a simple enough story but the movie is filled with a myriad of other elements that make it worth viewing.

The dark, foreboding atmosphere keeps you wondering what is going to happen next and the film seems to maintain an overall eeriness for its duration. With this being said, I did not, however, find it to be as scary as I expected from previews and for this reason alone I gave it 4 stars as opposed to 5.

The thing that surprised me the most was actually the relentless use of full frontal nudity by both the man and the woman. I am not the kind of person that gets offended by this type of thing and I personally thought that it somehow fit into the overall tone of the film quite nicely - to the point that it didn't feel like it was there simply for shock value alone, but that it actually served a purpose with both the character's relationship and the story overall. I will say, however, that it does get quite graphic at various points.

The technical aspects of the film are superbly executed. The cinematography alone would make the movie worth viewing at least once with some beautiful black and white sequences as well as a few ravishing slow motion sequences of the woman walking through the woods.

Overall I would have to admit that I did not like this as much as I had hoped based on the few other works that I have seen by Lars von Trier, but that it was still too alluring to give less than 4 stars to. I do believe that the pace of this film may be too slow for mainstream American audiences (as there are quite a few scenes early on of nothing but conversation or silence, or a combination of both).Also, I felt that some story elements were not as well established as they could have, or should have, been (i.e. the womans back story). At certain points I felt like the story was dragging and I would frequently ask myself "where is this going" when finally something would happen to fuel the story onward just as I was on the verge of throwing in the towel. I will point out that the final 40 minutes of the film do manage to keep your interest with very little effort as the action and suspense begin to creep in fast and furious.