This was definitely a good movie. I'm a thirteen-year-old girl, and I think that -- if and ONLY if you skip through a certain part about ten minutes into the movie -- it is suitable for all ages, though some little kids would likely get scared. Why did I want to watch Iron Man? Basically I absolutely love Marvel, and my friend absolutely loves Robert Downey Jr's character of Iron Man. So when I settled down to watch the first movie, I was expecting only the best.

Near the beginning of the movie, as I said, there was a not-so-appropriate scene with Tony Stark aka Iron Man and a news reporter girl. I was watching it with my parents and my seven-year-old brother, and my parents turned it off. I wasn't allowed to see the rest for a while -- not until it was recommended by some very reliable people. When I was allowed to finish watching Iron Man, me and my dad saw the rest together. It was a great movie, with an epic playboy Tony, a nice likeable Pepper, a ruthless evil Obediah, and an awesome trusty Rhodey, not to mention the handy robot J.A.R.V.I.S.

I won't spoil the plot, but that plot was awesome! As with all of Marvel's movies, it was the kind of thing that glues you in place till it's over. Tony was not the classic hero. In fact, he was a bit too egotistical. But although he was nothing like your Friendly Neighborhood Spiderman, he still had that great superhero appeal. And he wanted to help people, which is always a good sign.

Yes, Tony Stark was played by Robert Downey Jr. If you know a bit about that particular actor... well, you know he is a bit like Iron Man, only not a hero. But let's not think too much about the actors' personal lives -- Robert did an awesome job at portraying Tony. It was really incredible, what made the movie so great. Yes, it was the director; yes, it was the scriptwriter; yes, it was the epic Marvelness; yes, it was the designers; yes, it was totally the other actors; but most of all, it was the performance of Downey. Congratulations, Robert!

All in all, Iron Man was a fantastic movie. I would be more than willing to rewatch it several times over; but, then again, there are quite a few movies I like to rewatch. But Iron Man is definitely worth watching at least once.