I stare at this blank form in wonder of what i should say. Words alone cannot praise this film (and all of its sequels, for that matter) enough. It is a true master piece, not only for the generation - but for all time. This is the one that started it all. Not just my obsession, but the obsession of millions across the world. Enter, Godzilla - King of the Monsters. The film begins with a narraration by Steve Martin (Raymond Burr, who is not in the original Japaneese version) - and his description of an odd occourence the night before. Then we are visited by a nightmarish montage of people dead, dying or wounded. The film continues on with the 'adventures' of Martin and a doctor, Doctor Serizawa (a brilliant one for that matter, he has discovered the formula to kill oxygen) - both trying to discover a way to kill a beast that has been stalking the harbors of Japan for a while. That beast - is Godzilla. This film is flawless. Steve Martin (Burr) add's alot of realism to this with his new editorial like commentary, and the image of Godzilla has burned an image in everyone's mind who has viewed this film. As the final scene in glorious black and white rolled, tears came to my eye. This film began a lifelong obsession with me. The Godzilla suit is the best one. The most fearsom and menacing, with razor sharp teeth, sinster and narrow eyes and cat-like ears. As the film moves along, you are no longer a part of this word - you enter a world much like this one, only there is a giant, lizard like, mutated, atomic monster in this one. The story wraps around your brain and doesn't let you go. You cheer and jeer as the image of Godzilla's image flashes onto the screen, but shiver in fear at the same time. You feel the terror of Steve Martin, Doctor Serizawa and the rest of the cast - and the joy of Godzilla as he breathes his Radioactive Breath onto hoards of helpless citizens. Godzilla Is, most definetly, and always will be - The King of the Monsters.Now about the DVD. This is a very good transfer. Although the picture is a bit murky, it is still very crisp and sharp, and a bit scratchy here and there. The sound is great! On a sorround-sound Dobly Digital 5.0 setup, the sound quality is very very good, the kind you need to view a Godzilla Flick. This disc is a region 1 disc, if anyone really needs to know - if you all have strict Region-1 players. Sony really did a good job on the transfer (unlike Simitar who had a video-like transfer) but they could have added some special features for this historical film.. Maybe even a 2nd disc, with the Japaneese Version. But that is a bit of a high hope. But this is still a great-quality DVD, for a flawless, beautiful, perfect film.Godzilla - Charge Free Power-Line Destroyer since 1954.Long Live The King of the Monsters!