"Hex" is no <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AQ68RI">Buffy The Vampire Slayer</a> as some reviewers proclaim... but it defintely shoots for the tone of Joss Whedon's vampire slaying epic.  At its best, "Hex" is an entertaining gothic horror/dramedy that has a similar mood to the second season of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AQ68RI">Buffy</a>.  There is consistent humor, a good amount of horror that concentrates more on plot development than scares, and some clever metaphors (and some more straight forward stuff) about sexual awakening.  It's tragic, at times moving, at times funny, but never really goes to that next level.  While "Hex" is a good supernatural drama, it fails from becoming great due to several complications.

The storytelling at the beginning of the series is rather uneven.  Thelma, the best friend of our protagonist Cassie, is killed by the villainous Azazeal in the first episode... and comes back as a ghost before Cassie is even given a chance to mourn.  Fine, and it gives ample opportunites for some truly tragic stuff, because Thelma is also in love with Cassie.  But the thing is, neither of the characters question why Thelma is a ghost, and a reason is only explained way down the line when the plot calls for it.  It makes for a lot of "okay... what?" moments, but the worst thing was the logic behind the central mythology of the show.  They handle a "fallen angel" plot nicely, making the Apocryphal being Azazeal the villain, but what they handle without grace is the logistics of the way ghosts interact with the world.  Thelma, the ghost, can eat, touch things, move things... the only thing she can't do is touch living flesh.  This does cause a lot of emotional scenes, but it's bad plotting because the writers threw logic out of the window for the purpose of having Thelma be funny while eating.  A lot of strange moments like this are sprinkled throughout "Hex," but none are as great as the ghost predicament.

The characters, however, are great.  I love Cassie as the protagnonist, but also thought the show--which was a lot better in the last few episodes of the season, was able to seamlessly shift to having Thelma and newcomer Ella as de facto protagonists.  Thelma is fantastic, both for the humor and drama, and I'll undoubtedly be following Jemima Rooper's career in the future.  Azazeal is also a fantastic character, playing the role of a sympathetic villain who will shed a tear as he does dastardly deeds.  The supporting cast, from the headmaster David to Leon and the rest of his snarky crew, also help to make this show a thoroughly enjoying experience.

While the show has some pretty large flaws, most of them are early on, and the fact that there is a lot of heart, effort, and ambition in both the writing and the acting is very apparent, and it translated through to the viewers.  I don't think it's a classic show, but I would definitely buy the second season if they ever decide to release it in the USA, because I'm not sure I've had enough of the "Hex" crew.

7/10