I was really surprised by the tin-eared official review of this delightful animated film by DreamWorks. I'm not sure if the reviewer was actually watching it, or was prepared to rubber stamp anything that didn't come out of Disney studios as an almost-ran. While the film has it's flaws, they are far outstripped by every other area where it shines.

The animation is a mix of traditional and computer aided, which is blended seamlessly by the animators. Both are high quality and well done, visually entertaining and the visuals of the movie are mostly pure eye candy. The style of art is unique and striking. The marriage of the voice talents to the expressive skills of the artists is nothing short of outstanding, and it's the brightest thing in what is an ensemble cast of scene artists, sound effects, color and costume design and writing. Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh are obviously having a blast as Tulio and Miguel, two Spanish con men and thieves who run afoul of Cortes and stumble across the fabled city of gold, El Dorado. Armand Assante as bad-guy Tzekel Khan, is a delightfully smarmy performance that can occasionally be overlooked in scenes where Kline and Branagh's energy takes on a life of it's own.

It's set in the 16th century, but don't take this as a period piece - there are many jokes and mannerisms that are completely there for the enjoyment of the audience. The accents of the Spanish protagonists are more often American and British, and those of the pre-Spanish Mayans, decidedly Spanish/Hispanic.

The duo escape Cortes, and live it up for a while among the Mayans as gods, but improve the lives of the people by supporting the chief (Edwards James Olmos) and thwarting the bloodthirsty Tzekel's penchant for sacrificing people as the mouth piece of the gods. The scenes of Miguel exploring the city are particularly touching and warm. The humor however is non-stop, and powers this slick ride from beginning to end. Tulio and Miguel clash and must decide how to move forward in the end after resolving questions of honesty, love, gold, glory and the power of their friendship.

The film is rated PG-13 for a couple of sly jokes ("Holy, SHIP!") and implied sexuality and violence. As is the case with the smart writing in a lot of children's movies, it will likely go right over the heads of most children, but be highly appreciated by the adults who will be with them. The bright colors, likable characters and comic mayhem will still appeal to kids.

El Dorado is a new animated classic that sits alongside the best of Disney Studios modern animated films as an equal, and surpasses some of them. Look carefully in the major animated films that follow it in the decade to see it's influence in other productions.