A film (on Blu-ray release) about religious fanaticism as only a Texan could write it. Screen writer Brent Hanley starts with the premise of, "What if the God of the Old Testament was actively involved in events of the modern world?" The answer is events not much different than what you see on the nightly news--religious fanatics killing people ("demons" for some, "infidels" for others) in the name of God. Hanley states that he is amazed by the different interpretations people give for this film. That is what brings this film to a higher level than what he originally intended, a Stephen King story line with a "Twilight Zone" ending. Comparing this film to "Psycho" or "The Sixth Sense" is not really accurate either because it carries the weight of our religious heritage. Violence for the sake of scary thrills is one thing, but when that violence is combined with overt religious themes, that is something else. The reason is obvious to anyone who has read the Old Testament--it is violent and too often psychotic. You can blame evil on the devil (as this script does), but who created the devil? Hanley misses the point of why people blame God for the evil in this film, saying they misinterpreted it (in the writer's commentary). He would have looked so much smarter if he said the film was really a satire on Western religion. As it is, we do have some great comic moments: God's "magical weapons" being those of a common serial killer--work gloves, a lead pipe, and an ax sent directly from heaven.

One is reminded of the Texas mom who murdered her children saying that she was told to do so by God. Where would we be if every mother did the same when they felt their children were demons? (Of course, Leviticus recommends stoning to death children who disobey their parents). By the way, didn't President Bush say God told him to send troops into Iraq because there were "weapons of mass destruction?" These must have been magical too because they completely disappeared when we got there. Must be a Texas thing.