I did a little preview of this dvd the day I purchased it and was disappointed by the dark set, what looked like unnecessarily long breaks at the beginning of each set (where the move is demonstrated with proper form) and generally what seemed like low production values, however, I gave it a try the following day and I was NOT disappointed.

I enjoy The Firm a lot and really hadn't yet found anything that challenged me as much as my <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GOI42G">The Firm - 5 Days Abs / Upper Body / Tough Tape 2 / Standing Legs (Boxset)</a> yet (but I'm getting tired of the cheesy 80s sets and hair). I have to say that this workout surpasses it.

I'm not a person who like "dancey" workouts -- I'm so uncoordinated that I feel like I miss some of the workout trying to figure out what foot to start with. This workout is more like a straight bodybuilding, weightlifting workout, nothing at all choreographed, just very basic exercises very well demonstrated.

One thing that this dvd does really smartly which I wish all workout dvds using weights would take notice of is that when the demonstrators pick up weights, they show on the screen the weights each participant is using. This gives me a really good idea of what I should be picking up. Many dvds tell you to pick up "light" or "heavy" dumbbells at various points, but this is so vague and I often have to change in the middle.

The people demonstrating the moves also are showing various modifications. For instance, one of them sits on a balance ball for some. Some of them use a barbells when others are using dumbbells, etc. This is great and shows us some modifications without spending a lot of time on it.

I was initially annoyed with the breaks at the beginning of each set which show proper form and some modifications, however, I learned to live with them. In fact, each set is so vigorous that I really could use the short break every time.

More than anything, though, this is a VERY TOUGH workout (which beginners can still use, but with lighter weights, of course) that took my muscles to absolute exhaustion on every set. It was wonderful and I felt an amazing sense of accomplishment when I was done.

Get this! I still feel my workout from yesterday (in a very good way).