Quick synopsis: Kinky couple on a cruise ship looking to entice another couple into their twisted game of sex,love, and deceit (or is it a game ?)...It is through semi-erotic flashbacks, witty story telling by a paraplegic author in a wheelchair, that manages to keep both Nigel Dobson (Hugh Grant) and us the viewers engrossed ! There is a reason (while a morally questionable one) that Oscar continues to tell Nigel about how he and his wife met and the culmination of their relationship...But you must watch the film to find out Oscar's hidden agenda...
Theatrically released back in 1992 in Europe and neglected here in the States, Bitter Moon made it to vhs in 1994. Hugh Grant may seem a bit ill at ease in his role as a dorky husband. But then again, this character role would be a prelude to the many other somewhat comical characters he would portray in later films. Kristin Scott-Thomas plays Fiona, the savvy and sophisticated wife on this anniversary cruise with Nigel. She longs for true romance and passion and the possibility of having children some day. French actress/model and Roman Polanski's wife in real life, Emmanuelle Seigner steals a lot of scenes with her brand of sizzling beauty as Mimi (the film's stereotypical French seductress).Her acting is a bit limited at times...but who cares. Peter Coyote is witty and clever as a hard edged and cynical author who has a hidden agenda in the grand scheme of the story as it unfolds ! ...The climax of the film is quite an eye opener !
I have waited for years for this Polanski directed vhs title to make it onto the dvd format...It finally has. The only disappointment is the lack of a 5.1 Dolby Digital surround soundtrack(only 2.0 is available).However, I was able to extract a rear surround channel by Pro-Logic processing in my receiver(remember Pro-Logic?).Though the film itself is more dialogue than special effects, there is no excuse. With the dvd format a little over half a decade old, all movie titles should be mastered or re-mastered in the full digital surround system. No questions asked or anything spared. The studios or sound engineers should just do it !Picture quality is as good as it gets for this type of film. Colors are natural,reds don't bleed.There isn't any exaggerated or vibrant coloring as on some releases. There is a bit of film grain (that's to be expected) but not enough to distract. Any other visual digital artifacts are minimal. Beyond this small gripe this film is provocative and richly steeped in various scenes with dark twisted humor. But beware; the humor only goes so far and then drama is entertwined...
While this is NOT a film for a young audience, adults will appreciate the dark natured humor intermingled with scenes containing adult material...This is very much a film directed in pure Roman Polanski style. The excitement found in Polanski's directing is his unpredictability in whre he is going to take the audience ! I highly recommend this little obscure title...But remember, ADULTS ONLY !...