I would urge anyone thinking about watching this film or, worse yet, believing its claims, to look up the wikipedia entry on the subject. Some people want to believe just about anything and, the wilder the conspiracy, the better. This allows unscrupulous people to make a LOT of money.

What is most sad about such a situation is that people are drawn away from genuine issues that deserve their energy and attention. Tax evasion, income inequality and poor corporate governance are, for example, real issues. Global warming and countless other environmental issues are also very serious concerns. Anyone sane will recognize, after a very little bit of research, that the 9-11 truth conspiracy is without any solid foundation.

A movement like this has other problems : it detracts from the credibility of the left in general. It helps right-wingers portray people with a social justice or anti-war agenda as a bunch of nutcases (or just as nuts as, for example, evolution-deniers). Moreover, it encourages an exagerated level of cynicism about our western democratic systems. Immigrants from ex-communist countries I have met believe this kind of conspiracy because they are so used to a leadership which lies constantly and stops at nothing (including murder) in defense of its self-interest.  It is bad enough all the things our leadership has lied about (Iran-Contra, Vietnam, Bay of pigs, etc.), and it is just not useful to give life to further far-fetched conspiracy theories about lies (and murders!) approved the highest level (9-11, JFK, Pearl Harbour).

Genuine truth always comes out, especially when many people are involved in a conspiracy. This is one reason why a US president would never order the murder of thousands of american citizens. George W. Bush has been rich all his life, money would simply not motivate him to do such a thing : he is much more interested in how his legacy will be seen in the history books. Personally, I don't think much of him and suspect he will be remembered as one of the worst presidents in US history but the 9-11 conspiracy theory does not make sense in general, and there is absolutely no solid evidence for it on inspection of the particulars.