I enjoyed this DVD, but it's quite evident that the band is simply going through the motions on this one.  Given that the footage was recorded over the course of a four-night stand in one city could be the reason for such an uninspired performance, lending to a lack of audience energy.  The little amount of electricity the band puts together early on comes to an abrupt halt when Bono goes into his "Martin Luther King/Nelson Mandela" rant.

In my youth I was awed and impressed with Bono's political stage raps, but this time around I felt a substantial tinge of embarrassment for the legendary frontman.  I say this only because I recently saw the Live Aid DVD featuring the 1985 footage.  The Live Aid show presented an energetic, youthful Bono in all his mulleted glory backed by a lean and mean combo.  His musical chops were spot-on, and his political blah-blah seemed much more sincere given that it was coming from an idealistic, youthful Dubliner as opposed to the mega-wealthy, pompous, pseudo-American he's become.

As the saying goes: some folks don't change, they just get older.  The Vertigo DVD features a tired and weary Bono going through his oh-so-sexy stage moves, running the fingers through the mullet every 22 seconds or so, barely hitting the high notes, and turning a rock and roll stage into a bully pulpit with endless political yammering.  I know he's always been this way, but this time it hit me differently and struck me as just plain silly.

Like he did in the Live Aid performance, Bono invites a female audience member up to the stage for a dance.  While the 1985 "dance with the female fan bit" seemed lighthearted and innocent enough, the one on Vertigo was creepy, bordering on sinister.  Bono takes a leisurely, humorless, backward stroll around the circular stage, causing the fan to have to follow him in come-along, puppydog fashion.  This was the first time I was genuinely uncomfortable with a Bono performance.  I can only speculate what extreme wealth and hypocracy has done to the once-energetic bandleader who brought the house down at Wembley in '85.

Aside from the uninspired performance and Bono's yucky behavior, I still have to say I really like this DVD.  There's no such thing as a lousy U2 performance.  Lackluster, maybe, but never poor-quality.  They are a powerhouse of a band with exceptional material.  That they can have a bad night and still put on a gem of a concert shows what a strong act they are and why they've stayed on top for 25 years.