They will always make epics but they never again will make epics like they did in the 1930s and 1940s and especially Swashbuckling Epics like The Adventures of Robin Hood.  This 1938 classic epic release by Warner Brothers, staring Errol Flynn as Robin Hood and Olivia De Havilland as Maid Marian as well as Basil Rathborne as  the evil and villainous Guy de Gisborne  and Claude Raines  as Prince John  is what definitely is  an influence on the creation of all the Pirates of the Caribbean Movies as well as all the Star Wars films when dealing with Sward Fighting.
This Movie is a Fairy Tale epic with Robin Hood as the hero and Maid Marian as the girl in the tale that is smitten by the hero and who ends up with him. There is comedy when Robin and Little John as well as the Merry Men lour Friar Tuck into their group, and also when the bungling fool of the Sheriff of Nottingham is in any scene as well as in any scene where Robin's man Much is with his love interest Nurse Bess.
Sadly there is also tragedy in this Film. with pain being seen in the tortured faces and broken bodies of the Saxon people of the England of Robin Hood's time supposedly set in this tale. The cruel and evil Gisborne and the backstabbing and devilish John Lackland {as he is called in the Movie although later on in the real John the First of England's life he was called that way by his enemies} are the none comic villains in the Movie that would give anyone nightmares.
Later in history John is forced by the Nobles to accept the Magna Charta at the Field of Runnymede, but at the time that this tale is set those later on Nobles united against King John were at each other's throats. Richard Coeur de Lion {Lionheart} was the only one that in the tale is who would have all Nobles and all English united, as he was the King in the tale but he is held hostage in Austria; and that gives John the opportunity for him to take Richard's throne. Richard the Lionheart was a King who was a Warrior as well as a Crusader, with him being so absent in his reign that it was no wonder that such injustice was placed on the people in the tale, who were tortured and maimed and who lost everything because of the pact of evil, in between John and his supporters of Gisborne and the Sheriff of Nottingham.
In this Film Richard returns to England as it is told in so many Fairy Tales of him in total disguise as a Monk and Richard states to a mysterious Monk that he is mad at Richard abandoning his people, with him and all Merry Men seeing that this Monk was Richard and Richard befriending the Merry Men and their leader as loyalists to him despite Robin's long anger at Richard's not staying home.
This makes the tale a story where so many issues are mentioned when at the same time the art of fencing is so present as the action and especially when it is in the form of a Ballet. The Music is just as amazing as the Movie itself with Erich Wolfgang Korngold being such a maestro.