I was reluctant to watch Bee Movie when it was released in theaters, but I decided to give it a try. My expectations were low and this movie surpassed them surprisingly. It was very funny, and I came out of the theaters in a really good mood. To be honest, the plot is pretty silly but this movie wasn't supposed to be a masterpiece, and it delivered a lot of laughs for me. I think that's why this movie wasn't a huge success with critics, you need a good story and good jokes to make a great movie, if one of these two elements is missing it makes the movie forgettable. Oh, and all the puns! They were so lame, I can't BEE-lieve Jerry Seinfeld wrote those in...Oops...Even on the DVD case you still can't escape the puns so if you don't enjoy puns BEE-ware of this movie. Gasp!!! I did it again! I'm un-BEE-lievably sorry. AAAHHH!!!

DreamWorks talked about how impressive the 3D is in Bee Movie but I don't understand. It looks like standard 3D. I just don't see the enhanced technology. The humans in this movie look rather stiff, and lifeless besides the very main characters, an example is during a scene with a news report, the reporter's mouth is way out of sync with the vocal dialogue given. But, the bees look good and the honey looks very realistic. I also wasn't impressed with the bee hive, the colors aren't vibrant and it looked a little drab in my opinion. But I did like some of the creative objects in the hive, the bee's antennas are used as phones, the bees drive vehicles, and there is a device that lets you sharpen your stinger (A pencil sharpener) And Barry's closet is filled with the exact same black and yellow shirts. There are so many silly objects like these listed and it's so much fun spotting them.

I especially enjoyed Bee Movie's Cast, Renee Zellweger voices Barry's human friend Vanessa and I though Barry and Vanessa's friendship was entirely believable. And Ken (who's voiced by Patrick Warburton) is hysterical, he just flips out so much in this movie and it really cracks me up. And there are many more celebrities featured in Bee Movie, Chris Rock, (voices a dragonfly) Oprah Winfrey, (voices a judge) Larry King, (voices "Bee" Larry King) Ray Liotta (as himself) and a bunch more. I was also excited that Mathew Broderick voiced a character in Bee Movie, he also was in the Lion King and I love that movie. So what I'm getting at is there's a great cast for Bee Movie.

I enjoyed the movie so much I decided to purchase the two disc special edition but I was disappointed. (I'll discuss the problems later on in my review.) The extras for disc one of Bee Movie were subpar and I was hoping I would see more about the making of the film, but there not bad. I loved the "TV Juniors", you really need to watch these, you don't learn anything about the movie but they will have you cracking up. They run around five minutes and this DVD includes sixteen of them, and they're so silly, one of the TV Juniors features Jerry Seinfeld and the DreamWorks crew as they search for "the elusive animators" and if captured, they're forced to work at DreamWorks. Also included were some deleted scenes and the live-action Bee Movie trailers. There are also two very brief features about Jerry Seinfeld's flight dressed as a bee in Cannes to promote Bee Movie, and a short feature about the cast of Bee Movie. Those were disc ones bonus features and they're fine for a standard DVD, but the bonus features on disc two are awful. All that's included is a music video, and a few children games. This is a two disc special edition! So I was disappointed that I spent more money than on the single disc edition and all I got were a few extra children games.

If you enjoyed Bee Movie you need to own the DVD, but if you want to save money just buy the single disc edition, unless that is you enjoy children games and if that's the case go right ahead.