I can't believe anyone who watched this great little film, could possibly regard it as "boring" or "pointless" or "uneventful". I have seen this film twice now, once in the early 1980's at the Valhalla Cinema, then situated in Richmond, a suburb of Melbourne, Australia, and once again last night on this DVD edition. Both times I have been greatly affected by the almost painful emotional honesty and great acting of the lead character's. Phil Daniels is great as "Jimmy" a pilled up, Lambretta riding, Parka wearing Mod,in the early Sixties, living (I presume) in, or around Shepherd's Bush (a suburb of London) and in the early Sixties, possibly around 64-65.

Jimmy and his mates, and their girlfriends, are all Mods, an abbreviated term, that had it's origin's as "The Young Modernists" and they really look and act the business. Mod's hate Rocker's, the Rocker's are greasy haired, motorcycle (Harley) riding youth's, who are living the tail end of the 50's Rock and Roll fantasy, and they are all working class youth's as well. The Rocker's seem to hate the Mod's, who (to them) are effete, suit wearing, motor-scooter riding nancy boys, who don't like their "real music". Without giving too much away, this is a "coming of age" film, with a good soundtrack, by The Who! and it is well filmed, and well acted. This film is really quite emotionally raw, very honest, and very sad as well.

I absolutely loved Sting's acting debut, as "Ace Face" the coolest Mod who goes down to the seaside city of Brighton, to make trouble with the other Mod's, this really builds up nicely, and is an important element of this film.

I have taken off one star, for The Who's decision to go with their stage show (from 1973?) music, which was released as an album. I felt that The Who's early Mod classics, should have been given more exposure in the film, also no Small Faces, or even The Attack!

Still this is really (I feel) a must see movie, for anybody interested in sixties music, youth sub-cultures and "coming of age" films in general.