This is fantastic.  Particularly if you've never been lucky enough to go to any of the live stage productions...half the reviews I see here seem to be from people wishing their favorite performers were in it, or people wishing it was another Phantom of the Opera instead of the musical that it is, or people who heard the London version tanked and are viewing this version through other critics' lenses.  So I'm guessing if you're a person going into this without any sort of expectations, you'll be happily surprised.  This is NOT the London version; it's the Australian version that did quite well in Australia.  I hope, hope, hope it comes to the USA.

One of the reasons I like THIS is that I was horribly let down with how the movie version of PotO went; it seemed caught betwixt the strengths of film, and strengths of the theater, never quite nailing either formats.  However, I am very, very, very impressed with how the filming of the stage version of Love Never Dies went.  It takes the things I love best with theater--the honed, truly skilled performances of people who have to act live, day after day before a real audience--and adds the intimacy of film close-ups to show nuance.  And the spectacular Australian sets really shine,  even with a close-up camera on them instead of an audience seat a hundred feet away, so you don't get the feeling that you're watching a low-budget movie, like you could when showing stage design to viewers who are more used to TV set design.

I'm also surprisingly enamored of Ben Lewis as the Phantom.  Yes, I know I just pointed out all the folks ranting that their favorite Phantom wasn't in it, and now I'm saying I like this one.  I like Ben Lewis because he balances on the line between classical skill and emotion.  He doesn't let "being emotive" shred his display of skill...rather, him flipping back and forth between beauty and emotion is what really makes me love it.  Also, Anna O'Byrne as Christine brings traits I love to the show too...like Ben Lewis, she goes between technical skill and beauty to moments of emotion without straying too far either way.  The character of Christine is something of a bimbo, she's not written as much more than the damsel in distress, and anyone who can bring depth to the character without making her look like she's throwing an immature tantrum is a winner to me.

As for the music...I've been playing it on repeat.  It's very singable.  Not that I can sing worth a darn.

Five stars.