Rather than repeat the plot that is well summarized elsewhere, I'll simply say that I found this to be an excellent adaptation of a complex work by Henry James with strong performances turned in by Nick Nolte and Uma Thurman. The scenery is typical Merchant/Ivory: beautiful costumes and vivid location shots with dramatic and precise period settings. As another reviewer has stated on another site, "This is not 'entertainment' for the simple-minded, but a feast for those whose consciousness demands serious visual/literary engagement. Truly, the term 'masterpiece' applies here." The score by Richard Robbins is also superb and provides the essential audio backdrop that weaves the scenes of the movie together.

If anything detracts from the effort it is the exceedingly bland performance by Kate Beckinsdale as Adam Verver's daughter, Maggie. She lacked the sweetness and vulnerability as well as dedication that characterizes Maggie. In contrast Beckinsdale just made her look somewhat silly and clueless. I couldn't help thinking that someone such as a younger Linda Hamilton would have been better suited to the role and would have turned in a far more intelligent performance.

In addition, while Jeremy Northam does a fair impression of an impoverished rake of an Italian Prince, there is something lacking in his performance. He doesn't quite make the transition from passionate lover to dedicated husband/father and back again. If not for these two minor detractions, I would have given the film 5 stars.  Fortunately, the strong performances of the other actors more than make up for any of the problems noted above.

For me, Nolte's performance is the best! His portrayal of an American billionaire who dotes on his daughter is understated and believable. All the while there is a sense in his performance of the qualities that made Adam Verver so wealthy: determination, an observant and keen eye, intelligence, strength and an underlying danger. The performances of Thurman, Fox and Huston are also excellent and along with Nolte's Verver form the core of the film.

I highly recommend this film to all.