Okay---this review goes out to all those who have chosen to severly bad mouth this movie to death. I, like many people understand that some movies can be filled with too much sappy "mush" that it's hard to handle, but I think those who have chosen to be so harsh on this film are doing so somewhat because they have become so accustomed in recent to years to the highly dramatic (i.e. Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan) or the big blockbusters (i.e. Jurassic Park, Minority Report, A.I.) that we have come to expect from Steven Spielberg. If this were any other director's film, say, Nora Ephron, Robert Zemekis or Rob Reiner, then we would be more judging based upon their previous films that are more of this gendre. Can't we all just accept a cute, touching movie as it is? Does it have to have a deep politcal or moral message to it? I for one had a fun time watching it and as always Tom Hanks was his normal, charming self which only goes to show why he's known as the nicest guy in Hollywood. What I also liked about it was that it wasn't the typical Spielberg piece. Personally, I've been growing kind of tired of the stylized directors who always have this particular look to their films that after a while causes you to get tired of going to see them because you know what to expect. Even the score was a surprise, which for John Williams is a big accomplishment, since before Catch Me If You Can has always had the same sound to it. You could literally connect all the scores together back to back and they would all sound like they were from the same film. I think the man literally sleeps with a French horn underneath his pillow. So for all those who have such distaste for this film, I'd lay off the directors that a good amount of the time turn out some wonderful, quality movies and turn your attentions to films that I still can't understand got made (i.e. Kangaroo Jack, A Cinderella Story, The Hulk, Hollywood Homocide, Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen).