Being a huge fan of both period movies and John Keats, I was very excited to get this and couldn't wait to watch it.  Oh my goodness, was I ever disappointed.  For this to have been described as a passionate love story, I seriously couldn't tell when or why John and Fanny fell in love.  When you fall in love with somebody, there has to be a reason why, right?  There was nothing here!  Why or how these two fell in love was beyond me.  Fanny comes across as a stringy-haired sourpuss and Keats as just a guy who sits around brooding and being weirdly jealous.  Then all of a sudden, we're supposed to be convinced that they're in love.  Absolutely nothing happened to make them fall for each other.  It almost felt like you were watching two people who wanted somebody to love, and since there wasn't anybody else, they chose each other.  Then when you throw in reciting lines from "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" to each other it makes it extra deep and romantic.

Other problems I had with this movie were a couple of supporting characters.  John's friend Mr. Brown is completely odious and insults Fanny at every opportunity, but John never even stands up for her - the supposed love of his life!  Fanny's mother behaves towards Fanny as if she were nothing more than a tenant.  When Fanny receives the news of John's death in Italy, she breaks down and has to BEG her mother to come and comfort her.

I wish the script had included a reference to the fact that before Keats met Fanny, he had met and fallen for a mysterious woman named Isabella Jones, who had completely captivated him.  Their love story was ill-fated because she was married, and she also liked many poetic men besides Keats.  The obvious difference in the two women could have been a reason for John's attraction to and love for Fanny.

All that being said, I gave the movie 2 stars instead of 1 because the scene in which Fanny hears of John's death is completely heartbreaking and very well acted.  The rest of the movie, however, didn't offer anything besides making me ask over and over "Now he fell for her because of...why?"