I have seen a number of Bellydance Superstars performance videos, and needless to say, this is the best one, of the old AND new. This one has all the original dancers, with the addition of the tribal roses, although Suhaila Salimpour, Tamalyn Dallal, and Rania are missing (and I believe gone for good from BDSS at this point). The dances are perfectly choreographed and performed, and there is a great variety as far as theme, style, number of dancers on stage, and costumes. The stage is nicely decorated without being too plain or overpowering, and the lighting changes to reflect the mood of the dances.

A problem that the newer live performances had ranged from amateurism to having WAY too many dancers on the stage at once (Live in Shanghai was particularly jarring) but in this dvd, there is rarely more than 5 dancers on the stage at once, allowing you to see each of their unique styles and faces. The exception is in the introductory and finale dances, but it's excusable.

The tribal pieces, to me, are the best at this point in history of The Indigo's Tribal Fusion, because they are still dressed in "traditional" costumes and their dances are powerful yet feminine. They appear to have stepped right out of an Arabian Nights tale of dancers in the desert tribes. However, I believe that this is the last time they did this style, because after that they began to infuse too much hip-hop, and then transitioned completely over to "Vaudeville" or "Victorian" belly dance fusion, which is the most irritating thing that happened to the tribal style I fell in love with. If you like the OLD style, this DVD is for you. If you like the NEW Victorian garbage, this video does not portray any element of it.

The Egyptian and cabaret styles I loved here. They are very authentic to traditional or folkloric styles from those regions, with Jillina and Sonia doing a more Egyptian style and Ansuya doing Turkish/cabaret.

The non-traditional Polynesian style dance was a bit of a surprise but grew on to me, and one of it was enough. However, Sonia performs a very stylized version tailored to fit the show's belly dance theme rather than stay true to actual Polynesian style. In some respect this stylization is good, as too much Polynesian would be unfit for the show and should be omitted entirely, but at the same time it gives the wrong impression of the style. After this dvd I went on to research the actual dance and found it to be very different.

The Bollywood style dance, like the Polynesian, was stylized to the point that it did not really reflect true Indian dance, but tailored to fit the rest of the show. With the exception of Ansuya, the dancers who did this wore somewhat unconvincing smiles despite the joyfulness of the dance and costumes.

There was one thing that bothered me about the lighting in this video, and that was that there was either too much red lighting, or the video was edited to bring out the reds, so anyone wearing a hot pink or red dress stood out WAY too much to the point that it was like having acid thrown in my eyes. When I say hot pink, I mean HOT PINK. Their skin tones came out excessively reddish/pinkish/orangey as well.

In conclusion, I was really impressed with how in-sync they all were, and how less means more as far as how many people were on stage at once. The camera work was good for the most part, showing full bodies or thigh-up shots, sometimes face shots, but very good considering it's a large stage and the cameras are far away. Culturally speaking, this video is good very people looking for "traditional" stuff (people who want the impression that the girls are Arab) because most of them are dark-haired, and the costumes/songs are mostly traditional. This might sound trivial to non-Arabs, but knowing a few Arabs myself, they take pride in seeing the cultural dance performed in the most "authentic" way, especially by Arab-looking women.

To conclude, I'd like to say that Jillina's peek-a-boo red costume was way too slutty for the show, and I don't see what the purpose of wearing it was. She wears it in the very end of the show, as if to make a statement, maybe because she's the main choreographer, but I felt like she was intentionally overpowering all the other dancers with her [fake flesh-colored bra padding] peek-a-boo bra, and her buttocks coming out of the matching peek-a-boo skirt. She has said in other interviews that "I don't intend belly dancing to be sexual" but when the world is her gynecologist, I think she's just being a hypocrite.