Let's clear a few thing up. The only thing wrong about this documentary is that the WWE produced it with the assumption that either the viewer already knows about some of the WCW story or have seen thier past DVD's. When you read reviews on this board about what they left out, it's because either they have no knowlage of what happened with WCW or they have never seen other WWE DVD's that have already covered the "missing" subject to death. Here's a few examples:

Why was Biscoff let go, Russo brought in, Biscoff brought back, and Turner sold to Time Warner? See the "Monday Night War" DVD.Also you might wanna read "Controversy Creates Cash" by Eric Biscoff.

WCW's raid on ECW? See the "Monday Night War", "The Rise And Fall Of ECW" DVD's.

Bret Hart? See, again "Monday Night War" and Bret Hart's DVD Set.

What is here is a decent representation of where WCW came from and some views of why it epicly failed, by some of those who were there, been there, and in the business at the time.

The match listing is worthy of a 6th star if it were possible, 10 stars if you by this with the "Starrcade" DVD.

The only 2 weaknesses that this DVD set has is that, as said before, it was produce with the assuption that you have seen past WWE DVD's and that It wasn't produced with the same passion that the "Rise and fall of ECW" was. But, considering that when ECW was produced, WWE had a majority of thier talent and owner under contract. Not the case with WCW.

I just hope Jim Crockett Jr. and Sting (currently, in the retirement phase in TNA)will be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame.

I recomment that if you buy this, get the "Monday Night War" DVD with it and watch it first. If you already have seen it, then I recommend the "Starrcade", "Rick Flair and the 4 Horsemen", "The Ultimate Rick Flair Collection", "Bret Hart: The best there is, the best there was and the best there ever will be", "The Rise and fall of ECW" DVD's as a companion to this set. But if you don't really want to invest that much into it, the "Contoversy Creates Cash" and "The death of WCW" books will shed a great amount of light on the subjects that isn't covered in this DVD.