I hadn't seen Goldfinger in quite some time, but I've been a Bond fan, and a Connery Bond fan in particular, since I was a kid, so I was especially anticipating the Blu-ray release of this movie.  Fortunately, I was not disappointed.
First, the video quality; simply spectacular!  This is due in no small part, of course, to the amazing film restoration process employed by Lowry Digital.  For anyone wanting examples of BD discs that exploit the maximum video quality of which blu-ray is capable, this is the disc to own -- whether you like Bond movies or not.  Color saturation is rich, while still maintaining life-like realism (especially with respect to flesh tones); sharpness is excellent, too.  One drawback common to pristine restorations of old movies, however, is they tend to reveal the weakness of the period special effects, but that is a minor issue (in some ways, that "weakness" heightens the sentimental appeal of such movies).
Second, the audio quality; very impressive.  Unfortunately, my BD player can't output the disc's lossless DTS-HD Master Audio soundtrack, so I had to make do with standard DTS, but even with that "lossy" format, the sound quality was extremely lifelike, clear, and engaging -- especially with respect to the score.
I don't often focus on a disc's special features, but they are plentiful and interesting on this disc.  I particularly enjoyed the "making of" featurette.  The Connery off-set interview during the Goldfinger shoot is also worth watching.
The only thing preventing me from granting "Goldfinger" a full five stars is that this is not altogether my favorite Bond film, though I appreciate its importance in establishing much of the pattern of the later Bond movies.
In sum, this disc's reference quality video alone would make it an excellent addition to anyone's BD library.  Add to that the fine soundtrack, plentiful and amply engaging special features, and a classic and very entertaining movie to boot, and you have a terrific purchase in this Blu-ray release of Goldfinger.