When I first heard they were coming out with a live action version of "Josie and the Pussycats", my reaction was dread.  Recently, I had been disillusioned by other new projects featuring old favorites, such as Scooby-Doo and Pocahontas II.  I'm not a fan of the original Archie label Josie comics, but I do love the Hanna-Barbera cartoon, and was worried how they might treat the characters.
 Imagine my relief when the live action film didn't disillusion me!  I didn't think it was a classic movie, but I came out of the theater happy.  Melody acts like Melody-flighty and innocent.  Josie and Valerie have more depth, but don't seem alien to the cartoon characters.  Valerie now plays bass instead of tambourine; however, and no mention is made of her genius with electronic gadgets.  Alexandra translates very well.  Alan looks like Hanna-Barbera's Alan in the face, but his body is skinnier.  A take charge leader in the cartoon series, the new live action Alan seems spaced out, like a stereotype surfer dude.
 I was most concerned about Alexander, my favorite character.  Hanna-Barbera's Alex is cowardly but friendly, whereas Archie's Alex is snobbish-the main reason I can't get fanatically into the Archie version of "Josie and the Pussycats", even though the Archie version came first.  Which way would Alex act in the live action film, I wondered.  He doesn't really act either way, although missing one of the band's gigs made him seem just a little preoccupied with himself.  Then there's one odd incident-I won't give you the context, but it's not sexual-in which he strips himself bare.  Not feeling either snobby or cowardly today, I see!
 Comparisons with the Hanna-Barbera cartoon aside, something others have remarked upon is how the film seems to promote anti-commercialism and not listening to hype, yet it has product placement to the extreme.  It's like the film is saying, "Buy this!  Or...maybe don't buy it!  We don't know!"
 Another complaint I have with the film is that it had enough profanity in to make it a PG-13.  It's inspired by a G-rated, kid-friendly comic book and TV show!  Why does it have to be PG-13?  Having just a little sensuality to make it a PG would have been better.  Still, it was mostly the bad guys who swore.
 All in all, it's a fun film.  And it didn't spoil my memories of Josie and friends that I had from the Hanna-Barbera cartoon, so that to me made the film good enough.