I was just a little too young to watch this program during its original 1974-77 run, but NBC continued to broadcast the reruns of the program throughout 1977 and '78, and by then, at the age of about 10, I started watching in and was quite the fan at that time.  Then the show went of the air by the time I was about 12, and I never saw a rerun of it again until just a few weeks ago when I purchased this set.

Recovering from a foot surgery about a month ago, I I had bought it specifically to kill time while recovering and I actually watched the entire series in the spce of two chair-ridden days.  I was surprised how much I remembered about some of the plots, considering it has been about 28 years or more since I last saw any of the episodes, but that fact in itself bespeaks how well written some of the episodes were -- well enough written for the plots to stay in the memory banks for all that time.

Obviously the technology at the time (and the budget) means that the special effects seem primitive, especially the dinosaurs and the Sleestak costumes.  But in other aspects, the artificially created landscapes actually still hold up quite well, and trick camera work mostly works.

The four things that really make this a minor classic are (1) the well written plots of many (though not all) of the episodes of the first two seasons.  (2) The well conceived continuity of the storylines, shwoing how the family gradually adapts to the environment and learns about the world they have been tossed into.  (3)  A very well thought out and well rounded system of laws and technology that govern the nature of the fictitious universe they are in (many of which went way over my head at the age of 11, and it was only with this recent viewing that I really understand many  of these elements.  (4) The dynamic among the family.  Although no mother is present, the father, son and daughter have present a tight knit and caring family.  The kids bicker a bit, as siblings do, but you do get the sense that they truly love one another and that this bond is a key factor in their survival.  This was still the time when "father knew best", and the kids learn lessons from their adventures and become more self reliant as time passs.

The third season is not quite as well written as the first 2, and the changeover from the father to the uncle might not be particularly clever and smacks of too much coincidence, but there still are some good stories in the final season.