The title journalist, Fletch, has been called the role that Chevy Chase was so totally born to play, and not without good reason. Fletch's misadventures are totally suspenseful and so totally hilarious at the same time. While hanging out on a California beach to learn stories from drug informants, Fletch meets a mysterious man with a totally unusual request. The man asks Fletch to murder him. Yes, that's right. Must be a mad man, you might think, until he makes his story sound totally believable. The man says he is dying from bone cancer and has only terrible suffering to look forward to for the remainder of his totally doomed life. He would be ready to kill himself and end his suffering, he says, except suicide would prevent his family from collecting his life insurance. So that is why he propositions Fletch to do the job. Fletch says yes, but goes on to proceed with skepticism, which is totally called-for as it turns out. Fletch goes through a series of misadventures as he visits the man's doctor to try to see if his grim prognosis is verifiable. More misadventures ensue as Fletch goes on to crash the man's country club, posing under a fictitious name that he improvises as he goes. When a woman there finds his assumed name curious and inquires of its nationally, Fletch replies that it is "Scotch-Romanian", part of his totally typical manner of improvising. Funny interludes occur as Fletch deals in a totally creative way with his ex-wife's divorce lawyer. And there are more twists and turns to his adventures that have him impersonating police officers, among other things, in the process of unraveling the truth about the man who has put a hit on himself, not to mention other secrets that Fletch uncovers in the process. I saw this with my three best friends, and a totally good time was had by all. Karen found it exciting and funny, even though we totally had to explain some parts to her. Cady found it a totally unique experience like nothing she'd seen before, here, in Africa, or anywhere in between. And even Regina took time off from her usual poutiness to lighten up and enjoy. This movie is just SO fetch, and totally to be recommended.