When I first watched this movie I was a little turned off and disconcerted because I was thinking of the original Planet. That was my mistake. This version of Planet of the Apes must be viewed not as a comparison to the original but as its own movie. This movie deliberately does NOT copy the original. Yes, of course, there are similar elements but that's as far as it goes. Burton was not trying to improve the classic. He wasn't trying to make any deep political statements. This is simply a movie and you can best enjoy this one by keeping your mind open, keeping the original out of your head, and watching it twice.
Many reviewers may not know that this movie was an emergency fill-in. I have it from an excellent source that the intended movie deal fell through and the studio needed to plug SOMETHING into its schedule. Considering the limitations of time and budget, I think they did a pretty amazing job pulling together what they could on such short notice. That's not to say that the movie doesn't have its problems. It does. Several of them. But that doesn't mean you can't enjoy it for what it is -- simply a movie made to entertain you for a couple of hours. Period.
Once you get over the initial confusion of trying to compare it to the first and being disconcerted by the behavior of the apes that was entirely unlike the original, it's worth viewing a second time because preconceptions will be wiped away by then. These apes have retained many ape-like qualities (and that's logical given the basis of this story) and it's absolutely amazing to watch the actors breath life into the characters who are humanoid but definitely not human. Rick Baker's makeup is nothing short of incredible when you realize that they did not use cables, animatronics, or CGI. They could have "cheated" but they didn't (maybe budgetary and/or time constraints prevented this or maybe it was a conscious choice). They let the actor's BE the characters and some of them achieved incredible performances.
This Planet had quirks of humor. It's fluff with no underlying political or social statement. It's meant to be viewed and enjoyed simply as entertainment. It does have several shortcomings (overblown stunts, logic errors, inconsistencies in the physical strength of the apes)but that shouldn't stop an open mind from enjoying what IS there. I completely disagree with Burton's ending and his justification for it but I do have to admit that it was the one part of the movie that had me thinking -- trying to figure out what the heck he meant by it.  lol
If nothing else, if you're a fan of f/x makeup you will find things to marvel over in this movie. I found the extras on the second DVD to be worth the money alone because I am a fan of f/x makeup so I was riveted to the segment about the makeup and the simian academy sequence was also fascinating. In fact, I'd actually suggest watching the extras BEFORE watching the movie (if you haven't seen it before)to help clear out any preconceptions you may have about this one trying to copy or compete with the original. That wasn't the case. It was economics. The studio had to fill a slot after another movie fell through so a group of people were thrown together to whip out something to fill in the blank in the schedule. Unfortunately, the cast and crew suffered for the choice because the original is impossible to top. Burton didn't even try, knew he couldn't, so he took an alternative route. All fluff, no real substance, but don't let that distract you from some shining performances and fantastic makeup.
So, if you're a die-hard original Planet of the Apes fan and feel there's absolutely no room for error, avoid getting your fur rubbed the wrong way and don't see this one. If you have an open mind, enjoy f/x makeup, and can keep in mind that this is not and was never intended to be a copy of the original, then you may enjoy this movie though you probably won't be overwhelmed by it.