This 33 minute workout was the second Leslie Sansone walking workout I did, with the 30 Minute Walk (2 miles) being the first.  Since then, I've also done the 3 mile WATP and 2 of the WalkAerobics and feel this is definitely less intense than any of the others.  This is not to say it's not an enjoyable workout, but I didn't really work up a sweat, which I have with all the others - I'm an intermediate exerciser.

The workout starts at a faster pace than any of the others I've done and she uses the same 4 steps found in her other workouts - side steps, front kick, knee lift and back kick (hamstring curl).

She drops the pace for the 4 "kickboxing" segments.  If you're worried about the kickboxing element of this workout, I assure you that it is FAR less intense than anything seen in the Billy Blanks Tae Bo workouts.  Unless - or even if you're a beginner, I wouldn't think you'd find them exerting or strenuous, but they do add for a little variety.  These segments are fairly gentle and brief in duration.

Leslie was pleasant and motivating.  She's stopped cueing "left" or "right" and now taps the side of the body she's going to move first and says "this side", which is better if she's not going to mirror her cues.  This would be helpful to those who want to exercise with no sound (or to your own music).  There is one section toward the end of the last kickboxing segment where the pace steps up and Leslie doesn't keep time with it and seems to get a bit mixed up as to what she should be doing, which was a little disconcerting the first time through, but less so the next times I've used it.  One of the instructors in blue (Mary Kay, I think) really gets into her moves, so it's visually distracting when she's out of step with the rest of them (she does the same thing in another workout).  That said, there are few, if any, workout videos that don't have someone who mis-steps and it adds a bit of reality to them, in my opinion.

Overall, this was a nice workout, but not as intense as I expected given the Power Series designation and the addition of kickboxing moves.  I haven't been able to find any indication of the length of mileage covered in the packaging, nor do I recall Leslie saying anything about it, which is a first for any of her other workouts.  For the same amount of time, I'd rather do the 2 Mile Walkaerobics in the Deluxe Edition or the 30 Minute (2 mile) Walk for more intensity.  I may use this one occasionally, but for a light/short day when I want to exercise but can't handle or don't want the intensity.