"Sunshine" is a three-hour lesson in modern Hungarian history, portraying the country as it goes from Empire to Fascist to Communist rule, all seen from the perspective of the Sonnenschein family ("sunshine" in Hungarian).  Granted, some purists may take issue with the historical accuracy, but I am not a purist when it comes to this, so I can comment upon the film's other merits.
Sprawling over three hours, this film is not for the short of attention.  But for those more accustomed to films of this genre and length, "Sunshine" offers many golden moments that may pass you by if you aren't prepared to notice.
Ralph Fiennes takes on not two but three roles, playing grandfather, father, and son.  Other actors are more noted for their ability to transform themselves physically for a role, but Fiennes' talent in this category should not be underrated.  Although his red-haired beauty endures, he manifests the melancholy of Ignatz Sors (the grandfather), the dashing athleticism of fencer Adam Sors (the father), and the awkwardness and conflict of Ivan Sors (the son) masterfully, making each character a physically different person.
However, Fiennes' ability to morph is overshadowed by the subtle, emotionally resonant performance by the fine Rosemary Harris as the elder Valerie (Sors) Sonnenschein.  In the midst of political turbulence, religious persecution, and the rise and fall of empires and regimes (as well as Fiennes' role-switching), Valerie remains the only constant, due to her unflinching sense of self.  In a country that struggles to find its identity, Valerie always knows who she is, and for this reason, she endures.
Jennifer Ehle (Harris's own daughter) is competent as the younger Valerie.  She gets all of the highly emotional outbursts and confrontations with other characters, and gives Valerie an endearing vitality.  But it is Harris's quiet dignity and sly confidence that makes her the more memorable.  Just as Valerie is the pillar of the Sonnenschein family, Harris is the central pillar of the film itself.