Rigoletto was never my favourite opera as far as the plot is concerned but I was really impressed with this production. What a fine blend of music and drama! I normally prefer staged performance to the film version but this film is fantastic. Pavarotti as a duke is superb. He fits the role perfectly and does he act here! Yes, Pavarotti actually can act. Everyone here is great. Ingvar Wixell sings and acts a very believable Rigoletto.

Edita Gruberova, perhaps, is not the best Gilda in the world but her performance is rock solid, nothing to complain about. A portrait a bit too stereotypical, perhaps? Her signing is great though. Furlanetto as Sparafucile on the other hand is another surprise: picturesque, perhaps too much over the top with his dramatic make-up. After all he is supposed to be an assassin and not a street bum. But dramatically and visually very effective and striking.

Even the small roles are performed superbly, notably Marullo, who took two characters to create (an actor and a singer). He steals every scene he appears in. Another interesting character here is Giovanna who is played by legendary Fedora Barbieri, a true master of the art.  What she does with such a small and insignificant role of Giovanna has to be seen. She is a pure delight to watch.

Also notice that Wixell plays both Rigoletto and Monterone. It just adds a nice touch to the whole action. Wonderful.

The locations are picturesque but at the same time operatic and don't really detract from the action.

The very first scene (the feast at the Duke's court) is mind-blowing. Ponnelle took the full advantage of the film possibilities as opposed to stage production and as a result we have absolutely amazing dramatic experience of this famous opera.

Some moments are overdone or just plain ludicrous, like Rigoletto hanging on the balcony. But they are rare and don't detract much from the great overall impression.

I love it. If you want to own just one version, this would be my choice. That is, besides the one with Tito Gobbi whose Rigoletto is a class in himself.