This timeless love story has been told many times over in print.  From its origins as a Celtic story, to the French romance to Wagner's Opera, there are many versions and each of them is intriguing in their own way.

But there are key elements to the story.  The love potion that the couple drinks, the broken sword that indicated that Tristan slew the Queen's brother.  The story predates the Arthurian legends and is probably the origins of the Arthurian legend. It contains some magical elements that made it a fascinating story about a noble knight, Courtly Love and betrayal.

This production of the story, staring James Franco as Tristan and Sophia Myles as Isolde with Rufus Sewell as King Mark, presents us with the lovers triangle and is well done for a Hollywood tale with the usual Hollywood spin.  The costumes are attractive and the scenery is probably the best part of the film.

However, I was not impressed with the interpretation of the story.  I felt that the plot had been changed a bit more than I would have liked.  Tristan is not the noble knight portrayed in the original story.  And the stiff acting by James Franco left that part lacking in so many aspects that for me, Tristan was neither attractive nor heroic.  King Marke, in the original story, is the betrayer, always looking to find fault with Tristan and looking to catch the lovers in some kind of compromising position.  In this interpretation, Marke is the one wronged, and he is the one betrayed.  The couple, in the legend, never ventures further than Courtly love, Tristan always being the honorable knight.  In this version... well, Hollywood must have its love scene.

And the magical element?  The love potion which is the reason in many of the stories for the two who fall in love, is left out, the story becomes changed a bit, and the whole responsibility is placed on the lovers, not the magic. The love potion is excluded.

So, we go back to, ok, Hollywood did a number on the original story, and they do that, don't ya know.  We still are looking at a movie and its merits.

The acting of Rufus Sewell is a standout.  Sophia Myles is also as beautiful as she is talented.  But we come back to James Franco.  Sorry, but he was unimpressive as the Hero of the story, lacking in presentation, dialogue, and at times he looked like he was dragging himself through the part.

So, in all fairness, the movie was not uninteresting.  But there were times when it overly resembled the Arthurian Legend, with the King being wronged by his queen and her knight.  It did seem to be working towards yet another version of King Arthur, and in that respect, it seemed unoriginal.  The elements that made it unique seemed to be left out, and the viewer was left with the impression that, yup, yet another remake of the story of King Arthur.  And if I wanted that, there are film versions of that story with better acting. medievalcrusadesbabe