Keith is one of my favorite films. Yes, it is sad. I'm surprised by how many reviewers were put off by the fact that this movie isn't a particularly happy one. I urge those who intend to watch Keith to consider this before viewing the film. Essentially, if you are expecting a happy romance with two perfect characters, this is the wrong movie for you.

A lot of reviewers also seem put off by the character of Keith himself. I urge new viewers to try to understand Keith's attitude and to see how he positively affects Natalie (and vice versa) before making judgments about him. Keith often comes across as a jerk whose sole intention is to ruin the life of an honor student who is doing pretty well for herself. In many ways, he does just that. Here's what you have to remember: Keith is jealous of Natalie and the opportunities she has ("Is Duke fair? Is Europe fair?") I hardly think Keith's intentions are really to hurt Natalie, but he does have some level of bitterness toward her. Again, do not expect perfect characters: Keith is realistically flawed.

Also, while Keith's actions may have hurt Natalie to a degree, he also reminds her of the importance of living life for happiness in my opinion. Others may disagree, but I feel that Keith taught Natalie to take life a little less seriously and maybe she did the opposite for him. The two are certainly opposites, but that's why they work so well together - they are able to change each other for the better.

As for the acting, Jesse McCartney shines as Keith. I'm truly impressed by his acting here. You can see the conflicting emotions he feels during the entire film through his facial expressions, which makes me empathize and appreciate Keith's point of view more. I like Elisabeth Harnois as well, but I think I've actually preferred her in less serious roles than this one and I think she shines most during the more humorous scenes in Keith. Most of the other characters in the film are likable. I was not particularly off-put by any of them.

I recommend Keith to those who want to see something other than the run-of-the-mill romance, but who still appreciate romance for what it is. If you appreciate interesting characters who exhibit realistic flaws, this movie's for you. There are certainly plenty of giggle-worthy moments in Keith, but it should not be regarded as a comedy so do not take it as such. Enjoy! :)