SPACE MUTINY finally arrives on DVD!!!  Since the artwork on the DVD mocks this movie mercilessly (without giving a plot summary), I'll quote from the 1989 VHS tape release from A.I.P. Home Video: FRONT COVER: "There Is Nowhere To Hide From The Enemy Within!"  BACK COVER: "Breathtaking Special Effects from the Team That Brought You 'STAR WARS'.  Starring Reb Brown ("Uncommon Valor"), James Ryan ("Rage to Kill"), John Phillip Law ("Barbarella") and Cameron Mitchell ("My Favorite Year"), The enormous Southern Sun spacecraft faces destruction from within when the evil Kalgan (John Phillip Law) and his men take control through a violent and explosive mutiny.  Kalgan's plan: scrap the ship and sell the passengers into slavery.  Only one man, Reb Brown, has the strength and courage to lead the fight against Kalgan's rebels.  Armed with laser cannons and neutron grenades, he leads the Commander's daughter and a handful of soldiers into a blasting battle against Kalgan and his powerful forces."--END QUOTE.  THIS IS A VERY BAD MOVIE, very possibly the worst space/adventure movie ever filmed--yet it does have an oddball charm to it.  Much has been made that this film uses special effects from the BATTLESTAR: GALACTICA TV series (1978-79).  In a way, the overall plot of SPACE MUTINY--an earth space-ark on a centuries long voyage who are led by a Moses-like commander--almost seems like BATTLESTAR GALACTICA: The Next Generation.  The one man attack craft flown by Reb Brown is even called a "Viper"--exactly like on "Battlestar Galactica"!  If you look closely--watch for a cameo appearance by Lorne Greene in a scene featuring "Battlestar Galactica" stock footage F/X--the scene where the Bridge is attacked, Greene can be seen on the Bridge with his back to the camera in a distance shot.  I found the picture and sound quality of the DVD to be relatively clear--roughly the equal of any other low-budget movie made in the 1980's.  Since this WAS an incredibly low-budget film, I'm convinced that it was filmed in Full Frame with an eye towards the home video market--I doubt that this was made in Widescreen (but I could be wrong--who knows?).  One oddity though--the VHS release runs 91 minutes and 30 seconds, while the DVD runs 87 minutes--does anyone know what footage was cut for the DVD release?  If you're a fan of the Original "Battlestar Galactica" TV series, the camp-classic movie "Dark Star" or space-adventure films and TV shows in general, SPACE MUTINY is well-worth adding to your collection.  I rate it a generous 2 Stars.  BTW--To my surprise, I LOVED the SONG/MUSIC--"The Edge of a Dream" that is heard during the End Credits!