This DVD may say it's for beginners, but it is one challenging workout! My cousin introduced me to Pilates a couple years ago, and I loved the way the exercises worked my core without stressing my joints. I have since purchased two books and three DVDs. I am so glad that I started with the books because I could study the illustrations and learn the exercises at my own pace. If I hadn't, I would have been lost trying to follow along with this DVD. The instructor definitely gives you an aerobics workout, but if you haven't seen or practiced the exercises before, you'll probably find that you can't keep up. I could barely keep up, and I knew most of them. With Pilates, your body alignment is critical so you shouldn't be turning your head constantly to see exactly what the instructor is doing. If you choose this as your very first introduction to Pilates, I recommend watching the DVD all the way through so that you know basically what the exercises are before attempting them yourself. And if you haven't been involved with an exercise program before, I absolutely wouldn't start here. The instructor may call the moves basic, but they are challenging. I've done the workout a dozen times or more and I still can't do some of the stretches and exercises the way the instructor performs them. Chances are, I never will. Although I've tried to be physically fit by doing aerobics, treadmill, dancing, weight training etc. for more than 30 years, my guess is that there are some exercises in this DVD I will never be able to do. I am not built like an athlete and have suffered injuries in the past that make some of the stretches and positions unlikely. As some other reviewers have said, it would have been nice if this instructor had offered modified versions so that if you can't complete a given exercise as shown, you would know how to correctly do an easier version. All in all, if you're looking for a challenging Pilates weight loss DVD, this one should give you a fabulous body if you stay with it, but go into it thinking it will be a challenge and not an easy, relaxed introduction to Pilates.