Man on the Train is a slow moving French movie about two men from different worlds whose lives cross one day in a pharmacy.  The movie fails on several levels to invoke any interest for these two dull underdeveloped characters.

In a sleepy provincial French town, a drifter exits a train and walks into a pharmacy looking for aspirin.  The man's behavior and demeaner invokes images of Charles Bronson from the Deathwish movies, quiet, introverted, stoic, but intensely aware.  On the way out he is approached by an older man who is his opposite; gregarious, extroverted, and obviously looking to make a friend.  Our drifter, Milan, is played by French rock and roll legend Johnny Hallyday.  The old man, Manesquier is played by another French icon, Jean Rochefort, a man with over 5 decades in French film.

Manesquier invites Milan over to get some water to wash down his aspirin.  The shallow characterizations are quickly established in their meeting.  Manesquier is talkative and eager to make a friend with this intriguing stranger.  Milan wants nothing to do with conversation and is soon on his way out the door.  However, Milan finds the only hotel in town closed so he is quickly back at Manesquier's beautiful house seeking room and board.  The old man is more that happy to put him up for a week.

From here on the movie drags as we slowly learn of Milan's upcoming bank robbery and Manesquier's inevitable surgery.  Both, coincidentally, scheduled to take place on the same day and time.  Manesquier is curiously intrigued by his new houseguest and begins to express his desire of changing his drab existence into something exciting and dangerous.  He tries to confront two obnoxious patrons of a local restaurant and, later, secretly tells Milan of his longtime fantasy to knock off the local bank where he has an account.  It makes his adrenaline surge just thinking about it.  All the while, Milan listens stoicly with seeming indifference.  It becomes apparent he has lost heart for his current lifestyle.  However, I found myself indifferent to either character's journey.

The main problem is that the character development is non-existent, the backstory is undeveloped, and their objectives are very weak.  Instead of a facsinating character story, we are left with watching a slow moving story of two boring men.  The result has the audience asking, "Why do I care about these characters?"  The answer was that I simply didn't care at all.  And I cared less about what was going to happen to them.  Neither character made me sympathize with their story and the story was devoid of any central conflict.

The climax  occurs when the big day for both arrive.  Milan at last goes to rob his bank and Manesquier has his surgery.  There is rising suspense as these two stories are juxataposed and we are left on the edge of our seats wondering whether each character will live or die.

In the resolution both characters are effected more than they were aware of by the other.  It leaves them with the realization that for a brief time they really wanted to live the other's life.