Jacques Tati (1908 - 1982) admired the silent screen comedians, in particular Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin. Mister Hulot, the character Tati created and portrayed in four of his six feature length films, was imbued with the soul of Chaplin's Tramp - earnest, benevolent, down-at-heel, unconstrained, and ever optimistic - but his progress through life's perils and predicaments was uniquely his own.
  Chaplin's characters were graceful and acrobatic as they moved among the mayhem they had triggered. Mister Hulot lurches forward as a man whose joints are past due for lubrication. His back is rigid, his legs are stiff, his trousers stop three inches above his ankles in their striped socks. His tan gabardine raincoat is unsuitable for all occasions; his umbrella is as much an inadvertent weapon as a prophylactic against the weather; his chapeau is creased at the crown and upturned at the back and his pipe juts out as if thumbing its nose at adversity. His modest lodgings sit atop an impossibly convoluted stairwell in a cramped tenement continuously serenaded by a cacophony of voices and a chaos of people attending to their inscrutable daily business.
  Hulot has time for everyone. He shares candy with the blossoming teenage daughter of the woman who irons his shirts; he is interrupted by the street sweeper who can never find the time to collect a small heap of debris in the middle of the street; he is distracted by the vegetable vendor whose ancient truck spills over with unsorted piles of produce; his associates at Chez Margot, the cafe that owns the only telephone in the neighborhood, summon him for "biere de luxe" and billiards.
  In "My Uncle" (1958), Mister Hulot's well-meaning sister Madame Arpel and her no-nonsense husband Charles are concerned to settle Hulot into domestic regularity by finding him a job and a bride. Their own lives are as ordered as gears in a machine. Their home is a study in sterility with chairs that discourage sitting, tables that demand vacancy, floors that amplify the clack of shoes, and walls that repel art. The kitchen is a calcimine chamber of electro-mechanical conveniences. The garden is a collision of geometric designs, dominated by a metallic water-spewing pond sculpture, where hedges are cubed, grass is boxed, vines are plastic, gravel-packed squares sprout ovoid shrubs, and flagstone paths follow irrational curves.
  Charles works for Plastac, a manufacturer of hoses. He pilots his Oldsmobile to work in a dense parade of traffic precisely arrayed in files and ranks. Each day he dutifully deposits his son Gerard at the local ecole, but suffers from anxiety that the boy is more fond of Uncle Hulot, who accompanies him home every afternoon with kindly tolerance of the mischievous pranks the youngster and his pals get up to.
  Hulot's trademark is innocence. He is intimidated by unfamiliar gadgets and blissfully unaware of impending havoc, social or otherwise. He is incurably out of step with his surroundings, apologetically scrambling to mask or flee from the mishaps that bedevil him.
  When Madame Arpel organizes a garden party to introduce Hulot to a romantic possibility deemed to be an appropriate match because she is "tidy and meticulous", the guests endure a purgatory of exaggerated courtesies. Within minutes of Hulot's tardy arrival, the party is transformed into a cotillion of tiptoeing statues desperate to repair damages and retrieve dignities.
  As soon as Charles succeeds in placing Hulot at Plastac, the fully automated factory suddenly starts pumping air balloons into the hoses and truncating them into sausages.
  During his early years in the movies Jacques Tati performed as a mime. As an auteur, his attention to sound is as artfully crafted for satiric effect as the balletic choreography of the characters. The incessant click of heels in the Arpel home emphasize its hollow welcome. The noisy chatter and inchoate bustle of Hulot's neighbors represent vitality bursting at the seams. Free ranging dogs frolicking through fields and streets provide a contrast to the forced configurations and arbitrary conventions of human life.
  "My Uncle" recoils from the onslaught of modernization. Hulot's town, like much of France at the time, is in a phase of post-war recovery. Venerable older sections are being razed in favor of newer structures. Tramping through a vacant field, Hulot accidentally dislodges a brick from a crumbling wall, then gently replaces it. The film's opening titles are posted on signboards in front of a building being demolished. Instead of the customary musical prelude, jackhammers rudely assault the ear, warning us that the destruction of the past does not guarantee the felicity of the future.
  In Tati's films, plots are scarcely more than sequences of sight and sound gags. There is no dramatic sense that events are building toward a culmination. They proceed organically from incident to incident, as amiable Mister Hulot sallies forth armed for misadventure with nothing more than his good nature, his love of fun and his confidence that everyone he meets will be equally entertaining.