O.K, this was it, the date had been set since season 4, that The X Files season 7 would be the last ever season.If you are unaware of this , the reason was that David Duchovnys contract ran out this year and he refused to extend it.
So what went wrong, well Chris Carter, that's what.This season should have been packed with mythology episodes, cliffhangers, and the answers to all the questions that had kept us hooked for six years prior. Unfortunately this was not the case.
Season 7 lacked the darkness that the X Files once held and the ability to constantly thicken the plot line to the point where the episode had you staring in awe at the sheer brilliance of it all. There was a time when the X Files could have been shown in the cinema and people would have gone to see it.Unfortunately that time has now passed.(Compare 82517 in season 3, to Closure in season 7 and you will see what I mean.)
The scripts now seemed lazy and not thought through, the actors no longer had passion to play thier roles and the editing in season 7 was slow to the point that it bored you.
There are a few episodes in this season that are worth owning however, but not many, hunger is fun but will get boring, first person shooter is good but impossible and the one with the boy who can move quickly, and the one where smoking man drives around scully are passable, although neither are particularly well finished.
The season is enjoyable with a few episodes that should never have made the airwaves (e.g Fight Club and Gillian Andersons utterly boring episode} however it fortunately has an excellent season finale.
This is a shame however since it should really have been the final ever episode (and to some extent it was), rather than the cliffhanger carrying on to the absolute trash that we were to be shown in season's eight and nine.
Anyway, this being the last season with anything remotely good about it, makes it worth owning if you wan't to finish off a collection.
If your rich then you might as well get it, but if not I would advise that you save your hard earned money and spend it on something worthwile.
P.S  (If you don,t know the X files well, then make sure you get hold of anything through seasons 1-6 as each of these seasons are worth owning, no matter how high the prices may be.)