On the surface, it's easy to see why viewers might be drawn to the mindless diversion of "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day".  With the evening news broadcasting reports of never-ending atrocities in Africa and the Middle East, escalating crime woes in American cities, and devastating economic downturns, "Miss Pettigrew" offers a return to a different time and place, specifically the era of the British stiff upper lip in a London not yet affected by the Second World War.  In this world, fast-talking, loose-living theater folk emulate the characters in an Astaire/Rogers musical, flitting breezily from cocktail parties to fashion shows to jazzy nightclubs, while penniless spinsters cling to their dignity in soup lines.  By hook or by crook, everbody's looking for something better, but nobody is what they pretend to be; they're all about appearances, what's projected on the surface.  Which is the big problem with this movie.  "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day" is all about setting the mood for a particular place in time; it's about capturing the style of dialogue spoken in the frothy Hollywood screwball comedies of the thirties and early forties; it's about depicting a way of life that I'm not sure really existed outside the fevered imaginations of underpaid screenwriters.  But, underneath the gloss and high velocity chatter of "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day", there's nothing.  It's an empty, lovely vessel carrying such luminaries as Frances McDormand, Amy Adams, and Lee Pace across a sea of banality.

To be sure, there is very little plot.  Miss Pettigrew, the middle-aged daughter of a vicar, has been let go from her latest job as a nanny (apparently, she tends to aid children in their misbegotten adventures).  Desperate, but ever-virtuous, the poor woman guiltily snatches a business card from the snooty woman at her temp agency, and immediately finds herself employed as the social secretary for a frivolous, ambitious, young actress named Delysia Lafosse.  Soon enough, Miss Pettigrew finds herself caught up in the frantic machinations of the actress and her social circle, as they struggle to attain starring roles, rich husbands, beautiful wives, fame, fortune, and whatever else that, to them, spells happiness.  The fact that Delysia has the habit of sleeping with different men puts her in an awkward situation that only Miss Pettigrew can help her with.  And thereby hangs the flimsy thread that serves as a plot for this silly trifle.

Interestingly, although ominous hints of an approaching World War II surround the characters--there are already gas masks hanging in department store windows--there is very little actual concern demonstrated from anyone; they're all too worried about their next move, and to what extent they will benefit.  Appearances aside, they're really pretty dreadful people.

As Miss Pettigrew, Frances McDormand is like an older, tireder Maria von Trapp, as she appeared in the first 20 minutes of "The Sound of Music" (though, thankfully, she doesn't sing).  She's exhausted by her penury but, unlike everyone else in the film, doesn't do much to improve her lot in life by, oh, applying some makeup or ditching the drab wardrobe, or attempting a little charm.  Even when her employer gives her a makeover, she's surprisingly dull and lifeless.  I suppose that's meant to convey a Mother Superior-like chasteness, to make us believe in Miss Pettigrew's moral superiority over her more earthy companions, but it just makes her seem unattractive and uninteresting.

As the actress, Delysia Defosse, Amy Adams has a luminous quality that shines through even this ill-gotten mess.  Her Delysia's speech has the cadence of machine-gun fire and she's got the total self-absorption of a pampered cat; she's a pretty, peppy, resourceful tart with no more depth than a paper doll.

Without exception, all the male characters are written as cuckholds or jerks (or both).  They're so one-dimensional that they barely exist; their only function seems to be providing the ladies with a place to hang their hats, if you will.  Lee Pace and Tom Payne, both young and handsome, are practically interchangeable as two of Delysia's suitors.  Their distinguishing traits are that the Pace character is poor and, therefore, has a pure love for Delysia, while the Payne character is rich, with, ultimately, less honest (and less pure) designs on the girl. Talented Ciaran Hinds is trotted out as fodder for Miss Pettigrew's well-hidden romantic yearnings, but he's no more believable than the rest of the cast.  Everyone in the considerably talented ensemble is totally wasted.

At least you'd think they'd make pre-war London look good, but the cinematography is murky, and the few shots we get of the city are skimpy, as if there wasn't enough money left over after paying the cast to create convincing street scenes.  I've seen PBS Mystery do a better job recreating an older London in the Miss Marple series than the filmmakers here do.

The people behind "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day" have assembled a lot of talent for their project, but they forgot to deliver a serviceable script, create believable characters, or to come up with anything that is, in any way, meaningful.  The sheer emptiness of this endeavor only serves to underscore the tremendous waste of talent, time, and money displayed here.