Most of today's old movie buffs know Norma Shearer only from her solid performance as Mary Haines in "The Women".  That's too bad; Norma was a fine actress with quite a range.  1938's "Marie Antoinette"  was her biggest, most lavish movie ever; it had been planned for her by her  late husband, Irving G. Thalberg (head of production at M-G-M) five years  before shooting started.  
Giving Norma the chance to play  Marie-Antoinette was not just a concession from a powerful studio executive  to an ambitious actress wife; Shearer was born to play the part.  Her  patrician looks and manner serve her well here- the illusion that she IS  Marie-Antoinette is virtually perfect.  M-G-M lavished a lot of time, care  and money on this project; the costumes are so lavish that a corps of  embroidery specialists had to be brought in from Mexico just for this one  movie.  Norma worked like a demon to carry off the part; a costume ball  sequence has her running through a crowd with seemingly effortless ease in  a costume known to have weighed eighty pounds- over two-thirds of Shearer's  body weight.
The recreation of Versailles is fairly good; the entrance to  the Royal apartments is duplicated faithfully.  Other rooms are more  fiction than fact, and the exteriors of the chateau suffer from too much  trick photography.  Nothing about M-G-M's version of Versailles can be  faulted for sheer lavishness, though.
"Marie Antoinette" was  presented to 1938 audiences as historical fact; the truth is a little  different.  There is a great deal of history in the film, often quite  accurate.  There are, however, details that were invented or enhanced to  make the story more palatable.  Count Fersen never visited the Queen in the  Conciergerie; various details of the doomed escape to Varennes are untrue,  as well.  The "Affair of the Necklace" suffers from censorship;  the "Prince de Rohan" was actually the CARDINAL de Rohan; Louis  had this prince of the Church arrested for his part in the scam. It was an  enormous scandal at the time, but M-G-M decided not to offend Catholics,  and changed the detail.  The biggest invention of the movie is the extent  of the romance between the Queen and Fersen.  The Stefan Zweig book used as  the basis for the film posits a physical affair between the two on the  basis of two words in Fersen's writings; it seems he spent one unchaperoned  night under her roof.  Zweig was careful not to make too much of this, but  M-G-M decided this was something they could run with.  There's a funny  story behind the writing of this film; acerbic scriptwriter Donald Ogden  Stewart complained that the main difficulty he faced was "explaining  the French Revolution in terms that would not lose audience sympathy for  Norma Shearer."  In the end, however, Stewart and collaborators  Claudine West and Ernest Vajda managed to do just that.
The great  strength of "Marie Antoinette" is in its performances.  Norma  Shearer runs an astonishing gamut, from the 14-year-old Archduchess  Toinette to the weary, resigned Queen who rides a butcher's wagon to her  own beheading (Shearer eschewed make-up for this sequence; her resemblance  to the 18th-Century artist Jacques-Louis David's on-the-spot sketch is  astounding).  Robert Morley is perfect as Louis Seize; the man's essential  doltishness is clear.  Tyrone Power does his best with an impossible part;  the screenwriters made Fersen a stock romantic hero.  Gladys George's  portrayal of the DuBarry gets the lady exactly right; her strange  combination of ambition, coarseness, and elegance spring to life.  John  Barrymore's Louis Quinze is a little hammy, but forgivably so; the actual  King was a bit full of himself, too.
My favourite part of this movie?  It  has to be when Marie-Antoinette (still the Dauphine at this point in the  story) first meets Count Fersen; she's drawn to him almost immediately, as  she makes clear the instant she gets him alone.  Fersen takes her hand to  kiss it; the Dauphine has other ideas, and unexpectedly pulls him to her  for a kiss.  It's a magic moment, and it's hugely satisfying for any  romantic viewer, whether or not it actually happened.
Anyone watching  "Marie Antoinette" will be rewarded; the EMOTIONAL truth of the  enormously complicated Queen of France is here, even if Hollywood played  with the facts a bit.  Norma Shearer shows us that Marie-Antoinette was a  woman as well as a Queen; you can't ask more than that of a movie.
You  won't be disappointed when you see "Marie Antoinette", and you'll  watch it again and again!