My wife and I bought the "100 Aniversary" book of Anne of Green Gables" last October when we visited the author's home on Prince Edward's Island. After my wife finally finished it, I picked it up and could not put it down. The movie on this DVD is the same way. It sticks pretty well to the novel and only leaves out some scenes with the pastors wife.

Meghan Follows should get a lifetime achievement award for this unforgettable performance. She is absolutely beguiling in portraying Anne's innocence, intelligence, imagination and goodness. This is a movie you'll watch over and over; children's behavior may change after reading the book or watching this movie, such is the impact of this story. I am a pediatrician and am recommending it for all the girls I see Anne's age. Most have never heard of it tho most moms saw the movie on PBS and loved it.

All of the other characters in the movie, esp her adoptive parents give wonderful performances. Will stop here and offer some quotes from the book/movie:

Anne Shirley: My life is a perfect graveyard of buried hopes. That's a sentence I read once and I say it over to comfort myself in these times that try the soul.

Mrs. Cadbury: Tell me what you know about yourself.
Anne Shirley: Well, it really isn't worth telling, Mrs. Cadbury... but if you let me tell you what I IMAGINE about myself you'd find it a lot more interesting.

Anne Shirley: This is the most tragical thing that has ever happened to me

Anne Shirley: Mrs. Hammond told me that God made my hair red on purpose and I've never cared for Him since.

[Marilla, commenting on whether or not she'll keep Anne]
Marilla Cuthbert: If she can avoid catastrophe two days in a row, I might have a chance to make up my mind.

Anne has just fallen from a roof]
Diana Barry: Just say one word and tell me if you're killed!
Anne Shirley: No... but I think I've been rendered unconscious.

Anne Shirley: Tomorrow is always fresh with no mistakes in it.

Read more at http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088727/quotes

By all, buy this DVD!!