Skeptic of previous reviews that are posted here that are based on only by watching trailer, I first presumed that this movie is so horrible and people are just trying to hide its horribleness.

But actually, when I finally watched this movie last night, I found this movie pretty awesome.
I do not know about this movie's director very well,(name was...shim??) so I do not know how his previous movies were like, but just base on this movie, I think he does have some quality of making great SF movies.

(+ thumbs-ups b)
Like I said in title, the CG Graphic quality in Dragon war is gorgeous. Although I was confused of snake-looking like creature be called as "dragon", just by judging in pure graphic quality, FIVE stars in detail, cell posture, and swift muslce movement. The Battle scenes are breathtaking. It is very realistic and I couldn't believe these CGs were created by a director with such little experience.

Good qualities in realistic sounds and exciting music.

The story line was pretty unique and interesting.
(deserted half-dragon does a good deed and reborns it self as ultimate dragon)
It submerged pretty well with the awesome graphic. I probably would have given an A on storyline if it wasn't for the sucky actors.....

(-thumbs-downs p)
I dunno whether director shim didn't have enough money to recruit excellent actors, but I have to be honest. Shim might have a good sense in story-directing/CG graphics, but he certainly lacks a quality of choosing good actors. Especially those 2 main characters!!! their acting was just sooo bad.... I am sorry, but they ruined the whole good qualities in this movie.

Shim, seriously, next time if you want to make a better SF movies, do a better job in casting, and making scripts.

(OVERALL)
If you like Graphics, Battle scenes, Fantasy or
Lord of the Rings
Harry Potter
The Hulk
go see it cuz it is pretty awesome Graphic movie.

If you give importance in storyline, actors acts,
and script,
don't go see it or do if you have nothing else to do.