At last, The Simpsons make it to DVD, with the first release being a box set containing all the shows from the first season.
Of course, the main reason to own this DVD is to have these episodes with the best picture and sound quality possible - and without the cuts that inevitably get made for syndication. In that respect, the set is excellent. The picture quality is not always that great, but that is a result of the animation techniques used at the time (something alluded to in the commentary tracks).
The episodes themselves are great. The early stories found more of their humor in everyday type situations (relatively speaking, anyway) - for example, Bart having bully troubles in "Bart the General", or Homer having to sit through boring stuff at a school festival in order to see his kids participate in "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" - rather than in some of the more far-fetched plots that have become commonplace in recent years.
Best of all, you get to see The Simpsons before rough edges became polished away, before the characters and characterizations became formulized and more narrowly defined, and before sight gags began to fill in many of the gaps.
Homer is more beleagured working man than easily distracted buffoon, the relationship between Bart and Lisa is more realistic, and the show as a whole moves at a more relaxed pace, including more of the little details that make up everyday life.
The DVD set is not without flaws, however:
(1) The menus are horrible. There should be a main menu that allows the user to opt for episodes or extra features - there isn't. The first menu you get is the list of all the episodes on the disc; to access the extra features, you have to go through the submenus. Nor is there the option to view all of the episodes on a disc in sequence; at the end of an episode, you have to go back up a level, select the next episode, then go through that episode's submenu.
(2) The extra stuff is disappointing. First, the scripts are a waste of time - if I wanted to read scripts, I'd write to Fox and request copies. Next, where are all the Tracey Ullman shorts that were promised? All we get is the "Goodnight Simpsons" clips that we've seen already. The "outtakes" are all from an unaired version of a single episode, apparently for the purpose of showing us how [...bad] it looked at first. The foreign-language clips - all of the same scene from the same episode ("Life on the Fast Lane") - will only be interesting the first time around. And, contrary to what the packaging says, Matt Groening does not appear on the commentary for all thirteen episodes - there are at least a couple on which he does not. (And the only magazine covers - alluded to in the description found on this page - that appear on these discs are found in the "America's First Family" special.) [N.B., Since I originally posted this, other folks have pointed out that the magazine covers and the news story on the Bart t-shirts are found on the set as Easter eggs.]
Great episodes, "worst DVD extras ever". Well, okay, not the worst - but they could have been much better. Much.