People told me this was a classic; one of those movies that are craftily made.  Well, after watching it I'm still waiting to be wowed.  People say it is funny, even hilarious.  I look back on it, now the next morning, and the only sort of funny scene is Daniel Stern's character complaining to his wife that she isn't alphabetizing his record collection correctly.  He then storms out of the house leaving her in tears over it.  It's memorable but so sad and pathetic.  And he's maybe the most mature of the lot of these characters who are supposedly just out of high school but who look to me to be in their late 20s.
Of all the characters, I think I enjoyed seeing Kevin Bacon's the most.  He had some depth and complexity as a book-smart young man who knows all the answers on a college quiz TV show he is watching, but at the same time is so uninspired to do anything with his life.  I was hoping for more of a story to develop around him, but it didn't happen (having him go crazy in a manger scene is very anti-climatic).  Aside from his character, there was no one I could identify with.
It seemed to be boring scene after boring scene and there I am waiting for something interesting to grab my attention.  Ten minutes of Tim Daly playing simple piano in a strip club with a half-hearted drummer (who's obviosuly not even playing the drums) and a sax player who knows 1 riff is not my idea of engaging.
Maybe you had to grow up in Baltimore.
I give this 2 stars because I can't fault the dialog or acting, which is fine but nothing to get all excited over.  It's the story that is aimless.  
Someone compared this to American Graffitti and I must comment on that.  The only real comparison is that they both take place in the 50s and are about what people are going to do after high school (and those characters look like high school students).  That movie has its hilarious parts, its serious parts, and its parts that make you cry.  It has dozens of memorable scenes and you actually care about the characters.