I had high hopes for this film, and perhaps that's why I was so let down by it.  A movie based on a very dramatic true life showdown between snipers during World War II featuring the amazingly talented actors Joseph Fiennes (Shakespeare in Love) and Ed Harris (Pollock) can't miss, right?  Unlike the sharpshooters in the story, this flick misses badly.  Mostly I blame the director, although the writer gets a big chunk of blame as well.  The director, Jean-Jacques Annaud, seems concerned only with the visual effectiveness of the backdrops of this film and with nothing else.  Joseph Fiennes is a terrific actor but the director allows his British mannerisms to show even though he's playing a Russian.  Every time Fiennes pronounced Tonya as "Tonyer" it made the movie a little less real, which is the last thing a viewer wants from a historical drama.
What I'll never understand is why the writer didn't stay true to history.  The historical facts are much more dramatic than the story told here.  Gone is the three day standoff between the Russian and German.  Remember in Saving Private Ryan when the German sniper was killed by the bullet passing through his scope and hitting him in the head?  That's how the real story in Stalingrad ended, but not in this film.  The reason for this change is one of the snipers wants to go back to being a regular soldier.  No reason is really given for his wishes.  This is especially bad since he was pretty keen on becoming a sniper in the first place.  The ending is anticlimactic, mainly because for most of the film we see the two snipers playing a game of cat and mouse.  When one finally kills the other, it has nothing to do with sniping, and is only marginally connected to the game they were previously playing.
The German sniper (Ed Harris) is woefully two dimensional, though Ed Harris manages to make him interesting even if we are never presented with the character's motivation beyond a single mention that his son was killed at Stalingrad when the Germans first attacked.  The Russian's motivation is based in Hollywood clich&eacute;s.  This introduces a love interest and a spunky kid spy, as though simply staying alive isn't motivation enough.  Despite some good acting (Bob Hoskins is wonderful as Kruschev), the movie descends into nothing more than a bland Hollywood war story.