The physicality alone of this music pitting the human voice against the darknesses within the orchestra, the vocal dialogues as the wrath of Wotan,against lower strings (cellos and contrabasses) initiating contracts he had, and the wars he fought in behalf of Der Walsung Race.All the roles here are very strong and convincing, even Hunding, with those quick paraphlegic nods of the head in his confrontation with the wanderer Siegmund are powerful signifiers of character. The arrogant Hunding doesn't quite have the muscle against Wotan, but the projection of a Hunding is admirable, an enterprising man, protected by wealth and tribal connections.

Wotan,the God; do not be mislead here has a double function, I guess no one has commented on the Rock (as in rock'n roll)association he has,a cultural demigod; He looks like Jerry Garcia, from the Grateful Dead for example,or Wolfman Jack and many times this image has a bit of the anarchic,spontaneous combustion which to some degree never is reliquished throughtout this production."Steal This Empire!" The fact also that Wotan becomes a Wanderer,like Jim Morrison, or Cane, destined to walk the earth is a good metaphor,here Wotan is self-indulgent spreading his seeds far over the universe,reneging on contracts (he refused to payoff the Giants)soliciting a fatricide;He loved to be in the presence of luscious seductive women, and created their race here of warrior women, But he loved Brunhilde the most,and there is the connection to his weakness, for you cannot be everything to everyone; even though she betrayed his discourse, his wrath.His domestication dialogues with Fricka in their Duet is full bodied with the "Ethel Merman-type" persona as Fricka utilized here.
Anne Evans as Brunhilde projects a vulnerability,she doesn't have a large voice to hide behind; tall yet with soft gentle features, stout angular face,quite(unlike the more man-like Birgit Nilsson)yet Ms. Evans is a woman with depth and committment,like Sieglinde, a woman with passion and conscious for justice; cut from the same stock:(the auburn hair of both helps identify this race from Wotan)Brunhilde has the strength though to do what needs to be done; to eradicate the tyranny of the mindless Gods when they choose to snuff out life, much like what we see today in the criminal dimensions of the Bush Administration.

The incredible ending where Wotan summons his "advisor" Loge(not just a Fire-God) to protect Brunhilde in an eternal stasis is incredible.(Well only a "True" Hero can rescue her, someone with powers beyond ordinary mortals; Here she is enclosed in a laser protected Red Transparent Cube, with additional laser-lines shooting in all directions utilized as barriers trip-wires, much like what Banks, Mints and museums use to protect wealth and precious treasures. The long duet prior is well paced,the eternal bliss of fatherly love, (where is her Mother?)Brunhilde's Mother should have known of her demise;
Barenboim's true musical genius is situated in Wagner through the tempi  gradations following the powerful phrases. It all works best.His approach is always dramatically impassioned,yet with discipline which is why when he does conducts works more strickly instrumetal focus, as Brahms and Bruckner Symphonies,he fails to some degree,in this durational excess. Wagner's art was more open,allowing for the narrative to be re-thought through with each generation of artists. The orchestral playing is well balanced,forceful not sacrificing color in any respect.We seem to not miss the details of the Boulez reading,Barenboim is more full-tilt. If you have a good stereo system this balance is incredible, clear and there is no dilution of the dark lower strings timbres,contrasted with the more reed-like earthy timbres in the rediscovery duets between Siegmund and Sieglinde. It is commonplace now to have excellent acting ability in all the roles, and that is an integral part of this production. Even within the Walkure themselves, personas emerge from them with the scant lines they sing. They wish they could have done more to help Brunnhilde, but Die Walkure are under contract as well, to serve Wotan's wishes.

The large stage, dark and desolate also works quite well here, not encumbering the stage with distractions as we have found like in the Met's 1980s production with fake/plastic shrubbery and trees verging on kitsch. This production eliminates this simply changing a set when needed. The stage itself here has a double function,,as in the opening Act when we see Siegmund seeking shelter, climbing down,(like he is chinning himself)with a metal bar scaling into Hunding's elegant yet primitive dining room, then later when both brother and sister are banished both ascend upwards, the center part of the stage is lowered into an image of a large white cliff. Simple changes like this are quite extraordinary and effective without being a distraction. The continuous contrast between what is primitive civilization with more technological features, as lights,polished wood,modern dress and glass,gives this RING an added dimension of ambiguity, timeless. The Valykries for example descend a spacecraft;a slim-stainless steel long stairways,(Eiffel like webbing) from the top of the stage,down perpendicular.But  this travel is supposedly on "Horses", Brunhilde would never forsake her Grane-Horse, that brought her into battles.They bring back fallen heroes, information on how to win battles, like Lacan Knowledge Agency subservient to the Master Signifier, (Wotan in this instance) in his "Four Discourses" All these details I think add-up to a wonderfully inspired RING.