I'll start this review off by stating:  'I hate war movies.'  But I'll also admit, I can readily appreciate when a war movie is great.  Saving Private Ryan was an awesome movie, saw it about 4 times in theaters.  This movie, I didn't have high hopes for - but damn was I glad I was wrong.
First off, the directing style was insane.  Some of the shots in this movie were epic in themselves.  I have seen a lot of movies and a lot of very good and great cinematic sequences - This movie had scene after scene of just great imagery - I could hardly believe what I was seeing, sober!
The way it progressed through Sheen's readings of Brando's classified documents made it transition very well.  The greatest thing, to me, was how the further they got into the heart of the darkness, the more corrupt and 'disfunctioned' things became.  There were no CO's and things just fell apart, much like the boat crew.  And the way this 'falling apart' was portrayed, perfect.
A great thing was, it wasn't overly grotesque - this whole movie wasn't nearly as graphic as the first twenty minutes of 'Saving Private Ryan' and yet you were left with the mental filth of how harsh war could actually become and really pits you into what it does to your mind.
I'll say it again:  I hate war movies.  This movie has become one of my favorites, hands down.  I sat on the edge of my couch for an hour and a half, engrossed by the way the movie transitioned.
The only negative, to me, was the encounter with the French plantation.  It seemed out of place but at the same time held a significance.  It also made me think that these scenes are a great 'WTF is going on' moment.  Just running into these French 'settlers' in the middle of an Asian country / confrontation added to how top notch the movie is.
I thought the hype over this movie was BS, but its not.  This movie is great, all around.  Makes me regret not seeing it in re-release theaters.
I have a very strict top 10 movies on my list - Apocalypse Now could easily slip into my top five.