I'm surprised at the number of rave reviews this movie received not because I didn't enjoy it but because it really walks the line in terms of the definition of poor taste. Christina Ricci as the sexually abused and sexually compulsive Rae does spend an awful lot of time writhing around scantily-clad in the grips of post-traumatic stress and has sex with 3-4 different men in the first half-hour of the film. Furthermore, the one man who doesn't want to have sex with her, the dumped and drinking bluesman Lazarus as played by Samuel (there-are-mutha-f**kin-snakes-on-the...) L. Jackson, keeps her confined in his house with a long, black chain. However, perhaps it is the fact that BLACK SNAKE MOAN is so blatant about it's exploitative qualities that saves it from becoming utterly distasteful. Instead, the tale that unfolds on the screen is one of trauma, trust, redemption for two souls, helped along by by the soothing balm of blues music.

One aspect that I would like to commend this film for is its (in my opinion) nearly complete transcendence of the issue of race. That Lazarus was black and Rae was white was only a minor detail to the film. Perhaps it is simply because Lazarus and Rae are so different on so many levels: him--old, morose, alcoholic, and neglected and her: young, manic, traumatized, and sexually compulsive, that black/white is not really a noticeable factor and ultimately it is their similarities, their sense of hurt and need to heal that bring them together.

Among the few weaknesses I could name in the film are some features of the ending. The reverend's role and the sort of therapy session that ensued seemed weak as though the producers had run out of ideas or didn't want to do anything too risky and thus went for the mundane ending. Perhaps my dislike of the ending is also because of the heavy presence of Justin Timberlake. I'm not a fan of JT as a character and personally felt that his acting abilities were weak and that his presence detracted from the point that I thought the producers were trying to make with his character. Rather than seeing Ronnie as a sufferer of panic attacks (taboo for a male), I found myself thinking, "Figures, Justin Timberlake would wimp out of military service." On the other hand, I suppose it's better for him to throw his weight and celebrity status behind a movie like this rather than starring in some absurd "romantic comedy" with Jessica Simpson. For that, I commend him.

All-in-all, Black Snake Moan was a very enjoyable movie that tackled a variety of different subjects in an appealing yet controversial way. It'll be interesting to see how it stacks up when Oscars season comes around.