Batman is easily the most adaptable of comic book/cartoon characters. He's already survived so many wonderful interpretations. I grew up with Batman:TAS. By the time I reached high school, Batman Beyond was announced. I hated the idea. I was so determined to hate it that I tuned in to watch the hour long premier so that I could complain about it the next day. My plans were foiled when it ended up being an awesome show, if not my favorite Batman show.

A similar thing happened with 'The Batman.'This time, I just didn't give it the time of day. It wasn't until I saw an inexpensive used copy of Season 1 at a local video store that I decided to give it a shot (this was early December 2009, BTW. So...Recent!).

I quickly realized that this is just the newest interpretation. By DC terms, it's a new universe. It isn't intended to replace Batman TAS, it is intended to present this amazing character to a new generation in a new way. So if you're overly nostalgic about the 90's show, then this might not be the best show for you. If you are open to new takes on Batman, then check it out. It's pretty good.

Some of the characters have been re-imagined. However, they typically fit the style and tone of the show and have been given interesting new back stories. Characters like Joker, the Penguin, Catwoman and Bane have all been retooled, but not so much that they are no longer themselves. Mr.Freeze and Clayface are the exceptions, both of them being quite different from previous incarnations, but are both cool in their own right. In fact, on more than one occasion, I have heard younger relatives talk about how cool they think the villains in the show look. I'm not 'with it' so I won't attempt to quote them.

Batman himself is interesting. The gadgets bothered me in the first few episodes, but they made sense after a few more. This Batman lives in a modern world. A hero who has always been on the cutting edge probably could have a lot of the newer and tech-ed up gadgets this Batman has. It took me a bit, but I got used to it and came to look for new gadgets as I did in the movies and the 60's show.

There have been comments about Bruce being too lighthearted. This is also something that I think is perfectly understandable. He's still young. Years of hero-ing haven't phased him yet because they haven't happened yet. This Bruce behaves exactly as a 26 year old Bruce Wayne should. He isn't the guy from the comics yet. Honestly, I rather enjoy that we're getting to see him from his early days as a crime fighter.

As previous posters have said, the first few episodes are rocky. In fact, I would say that the first few episodes feel like Batman caught in an early Jackie Chan Adventures show. They're still pretty good, but not great.

Overall, I say give this season a try. The show only gets better as you go along.

Three and a half stars from me. (4 up top because I couldn't give 3.5 in the star meter.)