That this film has only an aggregate 3 stars is yet further proof that there are a lot of "stringer" spooks "out there" that post at these sites, policing us and our film opinions to make sure that we are steered away from such a superb and impressive movie, a film easily as good as anything John Le Carre brought to the screen, and most know how he is highly regarded as the novelist of record for such "spycraft."  This film is every bit as good as anything he's done, high praise since he is so superbly nuanced, and it's a great introduction to the historical character of James Jesus Angleton, whose life "The Good Shepherd" uses as its model, though not exclusively.  Many details of his life are closely reprised, though.

Though not that surprised, I was impressed that director and creator Bobby DeNiro had the chops, depth, and intellect to come up with such a compelling history of what's what at Langley.  The roll-up at the end included a note that he intends a sequel, and I can't wait to see what he has planned, since all signs would point to it having some of the most important suggestions about all the rest of the "what's what" in our current day, with this blundering behemoth known as CIA ( note that the main compound there now is named "The George H. W. Bush Center for Intelligence" if you any more need persuading as to the oxymoronic nature of that Beast ~~ Bubba gave the dedicatory speech in fawning adulation of Poppy, and you can see that treacle if you go to "our" country's "intelligence" agency website, archived in their press releases from the end of the Millennium.)

Though by nature the film will arouse a certain controversy, it is anything but boring, rather riveting, and certainly should be at the top of anybody's DVD list. ( If you combine its insights with a film that is inescapably related, "The Good German" with Clooney, you'll see why Keith Olbermann recently tagged one of his recent stories "The Good German Shepherd," as a little levity poked at the peccadillos involved in each. )

Ever since the fascination that's developed out of "The Quiet American" of 2002, with Michael Caine in a stellar portrayal, and please read the background story on this by professor H. Bruce Franklin in The Nation, which you can find by googling "By the Bombs Early Light," a reprint of that review, there's been a sharper popular focus on the betrayals of the American people by our own intelligence community.  Graham Greene was on to the whole thing, and the disaster known as "CIA," way back when, since the getgo when he covered it in his unknown role as British Intelligence officer.

All in all, this movie is a crowning achievement for DeNiro, who plays the old OSS boss William Donovan, renamed here S"ullavan" for the sake of "covert" courtesy.  Seeing it will give you the flavor and feel of James Jesus Angleton, and others, who put their indelible stamp on the Agency and gave it the DNA that all Americans should hope to re-engineer into something less of a mutation, and more of a service. Much like "Gangs of New York," this film gives an accurate sense of history through a collage of several characters mixed into one, an effect I'd call "Historical Surrealism," since the truth is retained even though certain facts and events are mingled. The truth is distilled out of many into one, so that the fiction can be even more relevant, even in ways more accurate, than the sometimes more pedestrian realities. Many traits or qualities are fused into a single synecdoche.

The flaws of the agency as it now stands could easily bring down the country, from the inside, from our heavily spy-infiltrated electronic elections, all the way to a near complete ignorance of foreign languages, when compared to foreign intelligence agencies, thus putting us at great disadvantage with their powers.

That's just for starters, and all the damage that CIA has done as "premier" of the National Security State inaugurated by Harry Truman ( naming the first chief of CIA, Souers, out of St. Louis, Mo., and his vast intelligence experience running Piggly Wiggly supermarkets) merely at home, in its massaging of our domestic agencies with bad and covert BS, is only a drop in the ocean of wrong and woe it has done to others around the world, with assassinations and propped up petty tyrants, just to name two chronic pranks its famous for.  Often their best defense has been our own ineptitude, and John Perkins explores much of the insider's viewpoint on this in "Confessions of an Economic Hitman."

See the film, and learn of the lameness, your children will thank you.  Damon is surprisingly terrific, too, and all in all superbly directed, acted, scored, filmed.  Top marks.