This is a sub-par romantic comedy with an implausible plot that *maybe* could have been saved with (a) a better script and (b) more engaging actors (think Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks).

But no. Instead, it's a B-list script with B-list actors (Greg Kinnear, Ashley Judd) that simply fails to make any kind of impression.

Here are a few of the things that are wrong with this movie:

Ashley Judd had ZERO chemistry with either Greg Kinnear or the delicious Hugh Jackman.

The kissing scenes were cringe-worthy.  Nobody kisses like that, with their lips scrunched up and smushed against someone else's lips.

Ashley Judd's character develops this cow/bull theory to explain why men aren't faithful, then her best friend played by the talented Marisa Tomei, who happens to be a men's magazine editor, persuades her to write an article about it.

She doesn't want to use her real name, but rather than just using a pseudonym, she invents this persona of an elderly German professor.  Then they take the photo of a recently-deceased piano teacher from Astoria, Queens, and use it as the photo of this professor.

Did I mention this movie is set in MANHATTAN?  Where people might recognize this woman's photo? But no, that never happens.

Anyway, in a completely ridiculous plot twist, this ONE article becomes a huge media sensation, with supposedly Oprah and Barbara Walters vying to interview this mysterious professor lady.

Oh, and Ashley Judd's character is a booker for some hard-charging talk show host played by the delicious Ellen Barkin (who is completely wasted in this movie) who early on in the movie talks about "the ungettable get, that's what I want you to get, some guest nobody else has already got, got it?"

Ugh.

So this professor becomes the Maguffin, the "get" they have to get.  Seriously?  On the basis of ONE magazine article?

The fact that Ashley Judd's character and Hugh Jackman's character are destined to end up together is signaled from the first scene where they banter.

Yet when she finally realizes she loves him and she's been wrong about men after all (because her brother-in-law is loving toward her sister after she has a miscarriage, like she's never seen a faithful man before) ... I wondered where the scenes went that showed these two people falling in love, because they certainly didn't make it into the movie.

Toward the end of the movie, Ashley is getting ready to go on set as the guest and reveal that she's the professor, and who's doing her makeup?  Her mother Naomi Judd in a three-second uncredited role.  Which is so bizarre, it jolts you right out of the movie.

When I see a movie like this, I compare it to such hits as "Sleepless in Seattle" and "You've Got Mail" and "When Harry Met Sally" and "Sex In the City" and "Hope Floats" - all of which pulled me in and had me rooting for the heroine.

There's something about Meg Ryan, and Sarah Jessica Parker, and Sandra Bullock, that is sweet and vulnerable and makes you want to root for them.  They're America's Sweethearts.  While Ashley Judd, who is very pretty, simply fails to connect with the audience.  That, and a stinker of a script, sank this movie for me.