...

I liked it.

Yep: I thought it was good.  I thought it was better than most contemporary children's movies.  Why?

1) Sharkboy and Lavagirl have depth.  No, seriously, as superheroes go, they take the angst of the Spiderman movies and adapt it well for a younger crowd.

2) It's theme of imagination makes a perfect fall-back.  So it seems the movie goes in a stupid direction, huh?  Unfortunately I remember my childlike imagination going in that direction as well when I was that age.  In fact, almost all of the stuff shown, right down to the ending, fit perfectly the type of random stuff I'd come up with when I was a kid.  I related to it perfectly, and I'm usually the type of person who gets angry when a movie doesn't match the type of daydreaming imagination I had when I was little and spent all of my time walking around and around the playground, thinking of random child superheroes to have adventures with.

3)  At first the virtual reality world is, of course, too cartoony for real-world characters.  However, what ends up amazing is how well they interact in such a fake world.  It's seamless, and after a while I forgot how fake it was. Much more beloved and much more highly rated films have CGI/special effects worlds that it doesn't even look like the characters are moving in.  This one has them walking along in them as if they're really there.

4)  Rodriguez may not make the most artistic or original movies, but he knows what he's doing when streaming together a line of images.  Invisible editing and conscientious directing kept the story flowing pretty much as smoothly as the milk in the cookie land.  It was nice to see.

5)  I didn't get to watch it in 3-D, but it felt like it was in 3-D anyways.  GREAT cinematography.

So yeah.  Good movie.  Better than Spy Kids.

What probably sets people off are the ending scenes (barely, BARELY worked) and the first few scenes with Sharkboy and Lavagirl.  They're very discombobulating and the acting isn't exactly the best.  Finally, Linus/Minus isn't the best child actor I've ever seen, and his character wasn't as developed as it could have been.  These are the reasons people have a hard time getting caught in the rest of the movie.

I can't make other people like it, but I sure do.

--PolarisDiB