For anyone who hasn't seen this documentary in the theatres it is an EXCELLENT documentary which will give you insights into the world and media regardless of what your political leanings may be.  The DVD is loaded with extras.

This movie is not a political rant and is not just an "election year" movie, not by a long shot.  This documentary will hold its own decades from now.  [Please see other reviews for basic concept/topic of this documentary, no point in my repeating the movie overview].

For anyone who saw this movie in the theatre, you will want to GET THE DVD(!!) for the excellent extras and commentaries.  I've seen the movie twice in theatres and purchased the DVD so I could share it with others who missed it.  I was surprised to see the level of extras in the DVD, outstanding job!

The DVD contains the movie shown in the theatre, plus has three additional commentary audio tracks: 1) normal movie audio, 2) commentary by the producer and cinematographer, 3) commentary by Marine Captain Josh Rushing (recorded after the movie was made), and 4) commentary by two Al Jazeera news producers.

There is also a large amount of additional interviews/footage that didn't make it into the original movie.  Subtitles are available in English, Arabic, French, Spanish. Wow

One of the things I really, really liked about this documentary is that it isn't out from the get go to demonize anyone.  The vast majority of the people portrayed in the film (US military press core, western news media, arab news media, etc.) come across as basically well intentioned people with very different perspectives of what is going on and what needs to be done, different cultural understandings, etc.

The different audio commentary tracks also promote more food for thought from the sometimes very different perspectives of the various commentators.  When was the last time you saw a movie with audio commentary from a U.S. Marine Captain and another audio commentary with Al Jazeera producers?

The best documentary DVD I've ever seen.  One of the best overall movies I've seen in the last few years, documentary or otherwise.

This important movie will be viewed many times in the future, long after the war and political disputes have moved on...

If you haven't seen the movie, you will be pleased with the DVD.  If you've already seen the movie, you will be VERY pleased with the DVD.

Outstanding job, Jehane, I'm very impressed with your work and your approach!!  Thank you for making this film. -- Warren