This live action and animated Chinese adaptation of Zhang Tian Yi's story premiered in Asia in 2007. Disney is now making it available to the American audience on this DVD that also features bloopers, games, and a behind-the-scenes documentary.

Wang Bao, played by Zhu Qi-Long, spends so much of his time daydreaming hero adventures that in real life he neglects his schoolwork. Spurned by his classmates for not pulling his weight on the group assignments, Wang Bao wishes that he could get the best grades without ever having to lift one finger.  Hu Lu, the magic gourd, overhears his wish and decides to serve the little boy. However, the gourd's enthusiasm and eagerness to grant the boy's every wish is matched by his little understanding of the human tendency to speak figuratively. And so as Hu Lu misunderstands the intention behind the words but still grants Wang Bao's wishes, the boy finds himself, instead, in trouble or embarrassed in front the very people he wants to impress. The irony is that the more Hu Lu tries to make things easier for his master, the more Wang Bao realizes that true satisfaction and respect comes from achievement and from working hard toward his goals

I watched this movie in Cantonese so that my mother would be able to enjoy it too while I followed the English subtitles.  Even with my limited knowledge of Cantonese, I could tell that the translation was not literal.  What I found funny was that Hu Lu is a character incapable of understanding figures of speech yet in the English subtitles he is uttering expressions such as "What a cow!"  The English-dubbed version is all right but I'd rather watch this film with its original language track on.
As to the animation (by Hong Kong Centro Digital Pictures), it is not going to blow your mind away, but it is not cheap-looking either.  In fact, it is very good and provides a wondrous quality that younger kids will enjoy. Also, the special effects do not distract from the acting nor detract from the story.

"The Secret of the Magic Gourd" is an enjoyable, family friendly film with a positive message on working hard towards what is important and on the values of friendship, teamwork and family.  Mostly, I like the fact that it is both Wang Bao and Hu Lu who do some growing up as they come to realize that having every wish being granted, as Hu Lu says, is not necessarily wise and may be more harmful than helpful in the end.