As a fan of classic epic films such as Lawrence of Arabia, Ben-Hur, El Cid, and The Ten Commandments, as well as modern epics such as The Right Stuff, Ghandi, and Braveheart, I can tell you that this film belongs among them. Epic filmmaking--that is, films that go on for 3 hours plus and tell grand, sweeping tales of colossal figures in adventurous times--requires that things be done differently from more earthbound movies, and so are to be judged with a wider scope. From beginning to end the cinematography must capture the vastness and beauty of the hero's world, in breathtaking and flawless fashion. The battle scenes must be superbly choreographed, scaled, and amassed. The music must be dramatic, sweeping, and evocative. The panoply of main characters must be in sufficient number to weave an interesting dramatic web whose threads take time to satisfactorily unravel. The overall cast must number in the thousands. The sets and costumes must be luxuriously, ornately, and authentically magnificent. The main character must be--and be rendered--riveting to watch through charismatic, if not gifted, acting. The dialogue must dramatically evoke epic times while still sounding useful. And the directing must be skilled enough to combine all of these elements in such a way that the audience is taken on the same journey the main character takes, thereby becoming utterly transported into that character's mind and world.

If you think about it, Mr. Stone had a Herculean Labor here: To bring Alexander "The Great" down from the ivory pedestal he's resided upon in bust for 2300 years, into our modern times so that we might try to understand him as "The Man" inside four hours. No other figure in human history has been so guilded by legend, or obscured by such legendary true accomplishments. How does one begin to get a sense of this man--his thoughts, feelings, vulnerabilities, that secret inner life? Yes, we know what he DID. But who WAS he?

This film delivers on all that.

So kindly overlook the at-times overmatched acting by Colin Farrell and his youthful peers. Turn a blind eye toward the gross miscasting of Val Kilmer as Alexander's father, Phillip II. Cover your ears as Angelina Jolie snarls and claws her way through one overbearing scene after another, even as she looks every inch Alexander's mother Olympias. Bear with Alexander's old general Ptolemy, ably played as usual by Sir Anthony Hopkins, as he meanders through his own ruminations about who Alexander was in the course of narration. Lie back on the couch and breathe as Oliver Stone beats the Oedipal horse into pudding.

The truth is, even those numerous flaws fail to detract from the impact of this film: To put you down on the earth as it was in Alexander's day, and experience what it might have been like to be him--in battle, in love, in friendship, in tragedy, conquering most of the known world. By the end, you will feel as if you've really KNOWN the man. That's what epic filmmaking is all about.

And if it took Olie three tries to get it right, so what? What matters is that he got it RIGHT. And we get to enjoy it.

(P.S.: The packaging and overall production quality are superb. Really beautiful. That it's selling for about five bucks is itself a wonder of the world.)