Luc Besson ("Taken", "The Transporter" series, etc.) wrote this tale of a quarantined, gang-infested section of Paris, where a local do-gooder named Leito (David Belle, inventor of the free-running sport known as Parkour) tries to keep his building drug-free by intercepting a large quantity of narcotics meant for gang leader Taha (Bibi Naceri).  When Taha's numero uno enforcer, K2 (Tony D'Amario), cannot retrieve the contraband before Leito destroys it, the gang decides to kidnap Leito's sister, Lola (Dany Verissimo-Petit).  Before Taha even gets a look at Lola, Leito arrives to take HIM as a hostage in order to get his sister back, which actually works, until they try to turn Taha in to the sole police station within the walled barrio.  The cops arrest Leito and let Taha walk away... with Lola!

Meanwhile... on the outside... French supercop Tamaso (Cyril Raffaelli, "Kiss of the Dragon") rests easy after a successful 6-month undercover operation.  Before he can crack open a brew, his superiors inform him that a bomb being transported by the government was stolen inside of B13 by Taha's gang.  He is to pose as a prisoner, earn Leito's trust by breaking him out, and sneak into Taha's lair and dismantle the mechanism... within 24 hrs.!  Good luck!

There are many things to like about this movie.  While the plot was not exactly written by any members of the Algonquin roundtable (well, maybe Harpo Marx) it's a little more sturdy than many of its type and, for the most part, is handled with care.  It primarily exists to showcase the athleticism of the two leads and, for that reason, is triumphant.  As usual though, I gotta mess up the party with my disappointment in the heavy use of editing during Raffaelli's fight scenes.  If you are familiar with him, you already know what an incredible martial artist, stuntman and acrobat he is.  Making the editing even more confusing is the fact that any given stuntman will be seen taking a 15-foot fall from start-to-finish, yet it seems like any single strike is not glimpsed without a quick-cut.  Arguably, some viewers may not be bothered by it at all and I will admit that I've seen much worse.  It's just that capable stuntmen teaming with capable athletes should NEVER have to resort to camera tricks in order to wow the audience!

While much mention has been made about David Belle's chase scenes, it should be noted that there's really only one, and it occurs within the film's first few minutes.  That being said, it's pretty damn cool and immediately reminds one of Jackie Chan in his prime and I've had my suspicions that Belle and his cohorts developed their ideas from Chan's early '80s innovations, like the foot-chase from "Project A".  Even if they did, who cares?  Belle's work here is more elaborate and he does a few things that even Chan may have had trouble with. Several countries are in current consideration of making Parkour an olympic sport and I, for one, would love to see that happen.

The DVD from Magnolia has a wonderful widescreen picture and a handful of special features including a "making of", extended fight scene and outtakes.  The spoken languages are available in French and English with subtitles available in English & Spanish.  If you like action movies that are tall on excitement and short on logic, it's hard to imagine you'd go wrong with this title.  While I was disappointed with a few aspects, I definitely liked it and have watched it multiple times.  3.5/5.  Followed by a sequel.

2004