Most critics panned it; I loved this film. Yes, Cole Porter's life as shown is a series of snapshots interspersed with many of the song hits he wrote. That shouldn't bother anyone, especially if you've seen that old white-washed version with Cary Grant and Alexis Smith. In one scene Porter (Kevin Kline), and Linda Lee (Ashley Judd)--his wife--sit in a movie theater watching that film. Smith looked ridiculous running over to Porter. It was too melodramatic and just doesn't hold up anymore; in fact, it was quite funny.

  The film begins with Porter, very old, ill and weary, sitting alone at a piano. A man--like the ghost of Christmas Past--walks in and takes him back through snapshot scenes of Porter's life. And what a life! (My only criticism is about the time Porter lived abroad/in Paris. The 20/30's were such a wild and exciting time for the rich. They felt they could do anything and usually did. There was a good attempt at showing us this e.g., a tamed 'wild' costume party but you really never got a sense of how fun and decadent it really was.

  When I heard that Alanis Morissette and Sheryl Crow were cast to sing in the film, I thought,'what are they doing there?! Associating Porter's work with the past was something I couldn't get away from. I expected crooners and female replicas of various 40's band singers. However, when I saw the film, I was astonished at how well a contemporary spin on the past works. Morissette and Crow were perfect casting choices. I suppose however that's why songs become standards; they can easily be sung by anyone during any one generation and sound wonderful.

  The relationship between Lee and Porter was a marriage of convenience that few people could really understand. I've known people like this and they love each other as passionately as the best of lovers, even if they seldom do in a physical way. A very good friendship can be a powerful anchor.

  Later in the film, Lee becomes ill and these are Judd's best scenes. She may not have pulled off the wealthy sophisticate, but she definitely comes across when the going gets tough. (Judd could be cast in a remake of Fitzgerald's 'Tender Is The Night'. The original version with Jennifer Jones was good but Jones was too old for the part.)

  Kline is exceptionally good. He portrays Porter as sophisticated, intelligent, so talented that he could come up with melodies and lyrics on the spot, jaded as heard in his song, 'Love For Sale', angry, sad, trivial and child-like and brutally honest about himself.

  (One word about a certain production number. A lead singer performs exactly like Ethel Merman. She looks like her, sings like her and even moves like her. Just wonderful! I don't know her name.)

  At the end of the film, all of Porter's past friends and lovers and his wife Linda Lee, step off stage and greet Porter as he sits in the audience beaming with delight at their presence. They're his life story come to life for the last time.

In the end though, get out your hankies because you will use them. I was very upset. Maybe if I were 20 or 30 I wouldn't have felt that way but the end of this film makes an older person think about his mortality and what everything in his life meant. Here, you have a man who had everything yet in the end was alone, at his insistance. Regardless, it makes you think if anything has value, even relationships, for in the end wealth, the good times and all the past fun and craziness mean nothing; it was terrifying. What was it all for? For Porter at least, it was for a legacy of songs that will be remembered and sung for generatins to come. That's not too bad is it?