If you have heard about positive thinking but don't understand the process, this is the film for you.  If you are already a fan of Louise Hay, you are going to ADORE this film.  I am so excited to see it finally released!

Louise Hay is a best selling author, known for her book, You Can Heal Your Life.  In the book, she describes what 'cause' is often behind our diseases and illnesses.  She developed this list working with clients in her church and consciously noting how they 'talked' when they spoke about their cancer, carpal tunnel syndrome, migraines or whatever other ailment was bothering them.  I refer to this list regularly in my Angel Readings and Reflexology sessions;  clients are always shocked at how accurate Louise's findings are.

The movie is incredibly done.  Every person watching it will relate to our main character, who struggles with thinking negative thoughts.  Throughout the film, the viewer is introduced to the power of our thoughts, and the process of why what we say and think has such an effect on our daily lives.  Included in the film (and especially in the extended release) are interviews of well known metaphysical speakers and authors such as Esther and Jerry Hicks, Doreen Virtue and Wayne Dyer.  Through the movie, you are taught how the process WORKS and how you can change YOUR life for the better!  It isn't just about mumbling affirmations and expecting your new car delivered to your front door by the delivery truck.  This is a process, step by step, to connect you with what you truly, consciously, want to create in your life.

A wonderful addition to this movie is an option of "Affirmations".  With beautiful music and breathtaking scenes, you are able to affirm with Louise new thoughts about your health, prosperity and relationships.  It's a wonderful DVD to have on as you are milling about your day, cleaning or cookie, affirming all the way to have good enter your life.

In the extended version, there are detailed interviews with those wonderful teachers.  It's definitely a keeper and worth embracing their individual stories.
Enjoy!!!  You deserve a wonderful life!

Annie B.