The Book of Eli was a moving experience for me.  The story revolves around a wanderer named Eli who carries the last existing copy of the King James Bible for 30 years looking for the right person to give it to.  Along the way, he encounters the harsh reality of the post-apocalyptic world around him (a brutal environment, lawlessness, and a very determined local town boss named Carnegie who wants the book as a tool to control people).  The movie has a lot to say, which is refreshing for a movie with a lot of action.  In fact, it's hard to argue against The Book of Eli having more message behind it than any other major movie in years.  It examines the role of pure faith in our lives and how it interacts with the more earthly thing we call religion, which can be used for great good or great evil.

The central conflict is between Eli and Carnegie.  Both are ultimately archetypes.  Eli is the humble man who lives what most of us would consider a near-ideal of absolute faith and dedication, with his one flaw being that he sometimes puts his task to protect the bible ahead of living by the teachings inside it.  In truth, this isn't so much a fault as a survival necessity if he is ever going to complete his mission to hand off the book, but it still is an issue that comes to bother him.  In this way, Eli reflects us all, and in his mission, he reflects a better way of living and the hope of building back a better world than the one that was destroyed.  Carnegie, for me, represents the desire to build back the world we currently live in.  For all he villainous ways, he's ultimately just a reflection of our modern world.  If he could get the bible, he would use it to gain personal power as he used religion as a tool to build an empire of followers around him, like a modern-day Mohammad (in the realpolitik military and political sense).  Probably he would also make people's lives easier and better superficially as he created more new towns and got "civilization" started again, but he desires the same corrupted world we live in today.  It's no coincidence that he's named after a legendary figure in our world who was very powerful and who shaped our civilization in a lot of ways.  It's also no coincidence that he is the one guy who acts and talks like someone from our world.  Excellent, seminal stuff.  Denzel Washington deserves an Oscar for his stoic, perfect performance.

The other delicious part of The Book of Eli is the twist revelation late in the movie.  It caught me completely by surprise, but it fit the tone of the movie perfectly, and it made so much sense looking back.  It's one of those movies like Sixth Sense where you'll want to re-watch it after you find out just to see if the filmmakers covered all their bases!  That injects a little extra fun and life into the movie just at the time when the story itself is becoming more hopeful and rebirth dominates as a theme.

Very highly recommended!  The smartest movie I've seen this year.  (Granted, it's only early February.)