First, I must say I enjoy these types of movies.  Characters who are living on the edge of society, almost oblivious to it.  That obviously says something about me, the viewer, the interpreter.  It also says something about how I view reality.  As Marx noted, humans are self-interested creatures at the core.  The rest is constructed fluff.  This movie, for me, flows along that premise.
Second, I had read nothing on this film until after I saw it a couple days ago.  I knew Jean-Luc Godard was a very influential filmmaker, but little about this film itself.  When I first saw the jump cuts I thought, "what the h&*@?"  Others say those were political comments, revolutionary, forced, or just plain amateurish.  What Roger Ebert conveys is Godard had to cut 30 minutes of film, so he went through and cut out anything he found boring.  Sounds logical.  This led to the final product, which includes the jump cuts.  Well, I think as a style it ends up working.  This is a "rough" film about an "amateur" criminal.  Perhaps along its core is a universal political statement about social authority and the individual reactions to it.  In the movie people die, and they die through the unpolished style of the main character, who simply lives how he chooses.
Third, to me, the camera work, the acting, the script, all flow seemingly into a very stylized film that pays homage to the petty crime drama genre.  In a way it is Reservoir Dogs before Reservoir Dogs.  But it is also more.  It tells the truth about love.  Love isn't as simple as meeting somebody, sleeping with them, marrying them, having children, aging, and dying.  Love, like life, is beautiful but messy.  This film matches love and life perfectly.  Just as amazingly, like the other film I mentioned, it manages to remain "on the fringe" of cinema while reinventing the industry in an important way and becoming a topic in mainstream discussions about film making.  Certainly we have moved on.  Breathless is not the only great movie ever made.  There are movies made today that may even be its equal.  Breathless becomes immortal, then dies.