"The Santa Clause", directed by John Pasquin, is an upbeat, Christmas tale classic that the whole family will love.
PLOT SUMMARY: Scott Calvin (Tim Allen) is a divorced dad who co-owns a toy company. During this particular Christmas, Scott's son, Charlie (Eric Lloyd), comes for a visit while his mother, Laura (Wendy Crewson) and her new husband, Dr. Neil Miller (Judge Reinhold) go away. Charlie is reluclent at first staying with his father...especially after Scott accidentally burns the turkey dinner and they have to eat at Denny's restuarant. After Scott tells Charlie the 'Night Before Christmas' story and he goes to sleep, Charlie hears a "clatter" on the roof "just like in the poem," as he says to Scott. So Scott goes outside to see what is wrong, when he is shocked to find Santa Clause on the roof! Appearently, Santa is also shocked to see him, so Santa falls off the roof and dies. Now, Scott (after putting on the Santa suit, getting in the sleigh, and bringing the preasents to the rest of the houses), is the new Santa Clause...only he doesn't realize this until after he and Charlie are brought to the North Pole and are introduced to the Arch Elf, Bernard (David Krumholtz), who tells him that he is indeed, Santa, by showing him the "binding contract" on the little card Scott found in the red suit. Now Scott is stuck doing something he really doesn't want to do or believes in, and he has one year to start looking like the real Santa. And if Charlie doesn't stop telling everyone that he's Santa Clause, Scott will be in a heap of trouble--especially with Laura and Neil, who feel that Charlie's strong belief in Santa Clause isn't good for him, and even try to prevent Charlie from seeing Scott when they think Scott is encouraging him.
OVERALL THOUGHTS: First of all, the acting...is absolutely superb! Tim Allen is perfect as the new-but-obligated Santa Clause. Eric Lloyd is cute and charming as Charlie, and the rest of the cast is brilliant. The storyline is humorous and fun--who wouldn't laugh when Scott keeps forgetting Bernard's name, or is making fun of Neil, or when they first arrive at the North Pole? The directing is wonderful, and the script is well-written. The special effects are darn good, too.
This special edition DVD is wonderfully packaged with a limited time movie pass to "The Santa Clause 2: Mrs. Clause" (the brand new sequel), exclusive sneak peak at the sequel, an original featurette, trivia game, holiday recipes, and DVD-ROM extras. The DVD is available in both wide screen and full frame formats.
I highly recommend "The Santa Clause".
Score:
100/100
A+