This movie is the only movie that I actually have fully memorized.  I'm not talking the kind of memorization where you can recite it only if it's playing at the same time.  I'm talking the kind of memorization where you sit and recite scenes when you're bored.  
This is because I've been absolutely hooked on this movie ever since I first saw it in theaters.  It could have been the plot that got me. Sophomore Bianca Stratford (Larisa Oleynik) wants to date. In particular, she wants to date Joey Donner (Andrew Keegan).  The only thing stopping her is the ulimate rule in her house: NO DATING UNTIL YOU GRADUATE.  Bianca appeals to her single father (Larry Miller), who finally concedes and makes a new rule just as challenging as the first: Bianca could date when her sister did. The roadblock?  Bianca's sister, senior Kat Stratford (Julia Stiles), could quite possibly be more against dating in high school than her dad.  Enter Cameron (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), new kid to school with a major crush on Bianca, and his friend, Michael (David Krumholtz), who plot to get Kat dating so that, in turn, Bianca will start dating.  The rest of the movie involves Cameron and Michael doing just that, with Patrick (a brown-haired Heath Ledger) engaging in their little game along with the less knowing mega-hotshot Joey.
Maybe it was the characters. Kat Stratford has an unchanging, bitter attitude about being yourself and not doing something just because everyone else is. Bianca loves to conform and be popular - basically the exact opposite of Kat. Larry Miller does a great job in his role as the sisters' overprotective dad who's "up to [his] elbows in placenta all day long" in his career as a doctor and is obsessed with keeping his daughters from growing up.  Cameron is easily likable, a boy who becomes fixed on making Bianca his own (pure intentions).  Joey is just as easily not likable as a boy who is also fixed on making Bianca his own (impure intentions). Michael is perfect as an awkward teenager who, I suppose, most would describe as being the "geek" of the movie, while I would disagree (ex., being the one who comes up with the "Joey's just a pawn" plan).  Patrick is hilarious in his attempts to capture Kat's attention.  Other noteworthy characters include Ms. Perky, the unhelpful guidance counselor secretly writing a dirty romance novel; Mr. Morgan, the  Shakespeare-rapping English teacher; and the gym teacher/soccer coach who is the perfect comedic tool. 
Maybe it was the memorable scenes: Bianca at prom, the detention room, the stadium serenade, Boogie's party, the motorbike, and Kat in English class, just to name a few.
I'm not sure what exactly it is about 10 Things I Hate About You - the characters, the plot, the scenes, the catchy Letters to Cleo tune - but it's a movie for anybody who wants a good laugh and wants to see how crazy somebody else's life can get. 
DVD NOTE: Besides surround sound and a trailer, there are no extras.