Let me start off by saying that this movie is one of the greatest pieces of cinematography. That being said, I won't give a synopsis of this movie.  There are numerous other reviews that go into that. What I would like to comment on is the Director's Expanded Edition versus the Original Theatrical Release. Like other reviewers here, I too at first was disappointed with the Expanded Edition, simply because of some material cut from the original, most notable for me, the Clannad's, "I Will Find You" song that accompanies Hawkeye, Chingachgook & Uncas as they begin their journey to rescue the Munro sisters. And yes some of Hawkeye's most quoted lines are also gone, "Nothing better to do on the lake today, Major?" " Clear it up any?" "Just dropped in to see how you boys is doing!" "Someday you & I are going to have a serious disagreement!", all have been edited out.

On the positive side though, I found that the Expanded Edition is not nearly as bad as other people have made it out to be.  In fact, after you watch it a couple times you really don't miss what was edited out all that much. Other reviewers have said that the additional footage does not add anything to the movie, or that this new edition destroys the flow & continuity of the original. I do not agree. On the contrary,these subtle changes and additions make for a more complete and fleshed out version of  LOTM's. This in turn ADDS to the flow & continuity of the original. Take for instance the diversionary scene made by Major Heyward to enable the courier to flee to safety under the cover of Hawkeye and Uncas.This additional footage to me adds much to the movie, it not only shows us how the diversion was made for the courier to escape, but also adds another dimension to Major Heyward by portraying  him as a brave warrior. Some new scenes of the siege on Fort William Henry are also added, which are not only spectacular to watch, (especially if you're viewing them on a big screen home theater system as I am), but also shows that the group trying to enter the fort takes more time to do so then just simply arriving and walking in. In the end, Chingachgook's added words poignantly foreseeing  the future, is something that many Native American Indians were thinking at that time. It was fitting that this additional footage was edited back in. Even the Clannad's "I Will Find You" scene is not that bad if given half a chance. With almost thirty seconds of additional footage here, we get more of a sense of desperation as we hear pants of exhaustion from Hawkeye, Chingachgook & Uncas as they pursue the Huron War party.
This scene by the way is accompanied by the Trevor Jones/Randy Edelman score and does not come across as an awkward scene added in with  no musical score, as noted by another reviewer.
In fact, I found no additional scenes that were out of place for lack of an accompanying musical score.

Aside from the above mentioned, there are at least a dozen more scenes with additional footage not seen in the orginal theatrical release. If you're interested, you can view them at the "The Internet Movie Database" found on Amazon's website. Just click on alternate versions.

So what do we get with this Expanded Edition DVD? Well, aside from a stunning anamorphic widescreen transfer that renders crystal clear clarity and deep rich colors, accompanied by DTS Surround Sound that will simply amaze you, we get  Michael Mann's true vision of how his movie was meant to be. And who would be more qualified to do this than the man responsible for giving us this gem of a movie in the first place?  But don't take somebody else's word for it, go out and pick up a copy of the Expanded Edition and check it out for yourself.  If you love this movie as much as I do, the $7.47 price tag from Amazon is a small price to pay (actually a steal!), and in the end you may find that it's not as bad as you have been led to believe. I know it wasn't for me.

I would also like to note as a previous reviewer has, you can obtain the original version on DVD simply by ordering it from Amazon.Co.UK. But you will need a regionless player to view it.  If you no not have a regionless DVD player you may still be able to view it on your computer. My computer automatically recognized it as a Region 2 DVD and played it no problem. This way you can have both versions on DVD and the best of both worlds.