Like many who love this movie, knowing that Coppola reportedly had to submit something like 38 different cuts of the film to the MPAA before they'd give it the passable blessing of an "R" rating, I've assumed that the version released to the public was drastically compromised and that, someday, a "director's cut" would be released that would be at once more wickedly graphic and cinematically substantial than the theatrical cut.  At the very least, for years I've been hoping that Criterion, who had distributed the film on laserdisc, would put out a new, comprehensive DVD set of "Bram Stoker's Dracula" with the missing (practically censored, I'd imagined) footage along with extras that would shed light on all the gory details fans have been waiting to sink their fangs into.

Well, as it turns out, that ultra-transgressive "director's cut" doesn't quite exist as I (and many others) had envisioned.  What we have here is a brand-new transfer of the same movie as it was released in 1992, together with an outstanding commentary and extensive video introduction by Coppola, some great featurettes and documentaries, and that deleted material, which does not contain the reels of censored were-beast ravishment and full-frontal-Monica-Bellucci vampire-bride orgies that I had somehow built up in my mind.

The transfer is noticeably sharper and cleaner, but it does seem overly dark in places, and I expect more fan-boy "controversy" about how correct the colors are in this print.  (I still have my Superbit copy, and though I haven't compared the two, there's a difference.)  What's more, in a few shots I noticed barely visible transparent horizontal bars scanning across the screen.  It didn't seem to be a problem with my monitor, but some sort of video glitch in the transfer-scan, part of the actual digital print.  At any rate, the new print impressed me in places, disappointed or outright irritated me in others -- far from a reference-quality transfer, with the flaws evidently all the more visible on the Blu-ray disc, I have read.

The documentary extras are all beautifully produced.  There is the definite sense that F. F. Coppola and his production company were responsible for all of the supplemental material, not a DVD producer working out of a cubicle at Sony Pictures, and that alone makes this set worth buying.  Even the simple, slim packaging is nicely done.

That's basically my two cents on this edition of the DVD, but I'd like to make a couple of modest points about the film itself.

First:  No, the movie doesn't follow the book to the letter, nor was that Coppola's intention.  All of Coppola's comments on the film illustrate how incredibly knowledgeable he was, and is, about Stoker's novel and the factual history behind the Dracula myth.  The book is a classic, but it is not great literature; it's a gothic potboiler full of clumsy narrative techniques, egregious historical and medical inaccuracies, silly characters and dialogue, a mish-mash of ideas taken from now-forgotten but once-popular vampire stories, etc.  Anyone familiar with Coppola's work knows that, as one of the few filmmakers with a genuine familiarity with and appreciation of literature, it is his custom to include the name of the author in the title of a film he has adapted from a written work (hence, "Mario Puzo's The Godfather," the original, complete title of that movie).

Second:  All the above taken into consideration, I believe Coppola's version is the truest in spirit to Stoker's novel (seconded, perhaps, by Guy Maddin's "Dracula"), even though the storyline is divergent from the book.  Like the book, this movie is a gonzo gothic potboiler, kinky and compelling, and each outlandish exclamation point at the end of virtually every line of dialogue delivered by Anthony Hopkins is an echo of its source material.