I just watched this movie, which was shown on TV.  I'd only seen it one other time previously, which isn't odd considering that it was released in 1975--one year before I was born--although I fell in love with it during that one viewing and have been anxiously awaiting it to come out on DVD--commercials every six or seven minutes can ruin any movie.

I loved Ms. Ross in "The Wiz," and although "Lady Sings the Blues" was a great movie, neither has ANYTHING on "Mahogany."  I'm a big fan of seventies movies...for some reason, they remind me of each other.  From "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore" to "A Star is Born" (Streisand) to "Claudine" to "Mahogany" I adore stories set in the seventies (my favorite decade) that depicts love against the odds.  However, of all the great seventies films--and possibly black movies, period--"Mahogany" remains my favorite.

Thin, glamorourous, BEAUTIFUL, sassy, brass, and bold, Diana Ross stole it with her performance of working-class-girl turned supermodel diva Tracy.  Diana Ross was excellent, as she developed and then severed a relationship with silver screen god Billy Dee Williams (her on-screen boyfriend, politician Brian), and as she gravitated towards and later dodged Anthony Perkins.  And she looks so much like her own daughter, Tracee of "Girlfriends" (TV Show) fame that it's uncanny--and makes me wish that her daughter would star in a remade, modernized version.  Oh, but this version is excellent in its own right, of course.  The costumes are FIERCE.  This movie is a wonderful period piece, and although it seems dated when viewed today, it commands universality.

Although the behaviors of the main men that Tracy dealt with in this movie were questionable, it must be something to have men lusting after you the way they did her.  Frustrated, perhaps, at being only a sex object, by the end of the movie Tracy returns to the one man she knew before she made it big--Brian--the one who wanted her for more than her looks or glamour.  She compromises, of course, but she was in love.

And the world needs way more of that.