David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes are detached, East Coast elitists who inhabit an academic environment far removed from the rest of society and its very real challenges.  Like their elitist colleagues, they lack real life experience, but eagerly share gratuitous opinions formulated in the Ivory Tower during cocktail parties with other, similarly detached elitists.  Duchovny theorizes that serial killers, mass murderers and spree killers are merely misunderstood human beings who should be treated for their antisocial illnesses rather than receive "inhumane" punishment such as capital execution.  Duchovny is even authoring a book on these poor, misunderstood citizens, and Forbes is assisting him through photographic illustration.

The couple sets off on a cross-country trek to the Left Coast, mapping out a route that will allow them to study and document some of the most notorious locations in America where poor, misunderstood citizens tortured and murdered their fellow human beings.  Taking a 1960s Lincoln Continental (convertible top with suicide doors) cross-country is going to cost an arm and a leg in gas, though, so they advertise for someone willing to ride along and share expenses.  The couple answering their ad is Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis, a pair of redneck trailer trash whom Forbes describes as "Oakies" upon first seeing them.  Rather than acquiesce to his girlfriend's acute intuition by leaving them behind, Duchovny invites Pitt and Lewis to join them on their trek.  As their journey progresses, Duchovny and Forbes are drawn into an ever-increasing torrent of violence orchestrated by Pitt, a sociopath who gives the detached elitists their first taste of real life experience in the subject they previously thought they understood so well.

All four actors give compelling performances in this masterfully written and directed movie.  The characters are real, the situations are gripping, and the cinematography is outstanding.  Duchovny's upbringing in New York City and schooling at Princeton and Yale prepared him perfectly to portray a detached, East Coast elitist lacking real world experience but full of grandiose opinions about how the world should be run.  Forbes was excellent as the supportive yet intuitive girlfriend with a slightly better understanding of human nature.  Juliette Lewis masterfully played the simpleton, co-dependent girlfriend of a dangerous ex-con whose propensity for violence she understood all too well.  Finally, Brad Pitt gave an unequalled performance as a crude and uneducated, yet insightful and manipulative sociopath whose understanding of human nature, strength and frailty was vastly superior to that of all the other characters, including the highly educated, overconfident couple he ultimately came to terrorize.

The movie never explained how the characters came to be who and how they are; there were no flashbacks to Duchovny's presumably comfortable childhood, Lewis' incestuous parents, Forbes' normal upbringing, or Pitt's violent, uneducated juvenile delinquency in rural, upstate New York.  Yet the characters didn't require such explanation.  Unless leading the sheltered life of Duchovny's main character, the viewer has probably encountered real life versions of each and every character portrayed, and would recognize them well.  It is enough to see how circumstances bring them together and how various social and psychological forces violently transform them during their interaction.

One of the interesting aspects of this movie is that it is extremely violent. Unlike the bloody cinematic gore fests to which we've become accustomed in recent years, however, this movie is not graphically violent.  There is no portrayal of amputations, gunshot wounds or guts being splattered all over the place. Instead, the violence is implied in the fashion of Hitchcock, with weapons being applied to subjects just off camera, the audible sound effects of their application, and the pooling of blood a la Psycho.  Even though the violence is implied, it has a very real and measurable impact, and proves to be even more disturbing than many of the gore fests to which we have become desensitized.  In this respect, the depiction of violence itself is -- cinematically speaking -- masterful.  It is classic, implied violence.

... and highly recommended.