After the release of their chart topping debut album there was much sceptisism on whether or not the Spice Girls could hit number 1 again or become forgotten 1-hit-wonders. Not only did they hit number 1 again, they  topped themselves. This album has done EXTREMLY well, and its easy to see  why. The album kicks off with the Spice Girls first single off this album  "SPICE UP YOUR LIFE." This is an outrageously awesome song  inviting all the world to get up on the dance floor and shake it! A really  fun song. Next comes "STOP" which is the Spice Girls tribute to  Motown. And what a tribute! This song is wonderfull and so much fun. Its a  shame it didn't get to number 1 on the charts, but number 2 is just as  good. Then comes "TOO MUCH" another number 1 hit for the Spice  Girls. And its easy to see why, the awesome lyrics and the melody itself is  just amazing. Not to mention that it dosn't get into silly mushy garbage  that often happens with ballads (Backstreet Boys much?). Then theres  "SATURDAY NIGHT DIVAS" which happens to be my least favorite  Spice Girls song. Its sounds like they just came out of the ghetto,  allthough not an entirly bad song. The comes my favorite, "NEVER GIVE  UP ON THE GOOD TIMES." What an outrageous song, the disco beat is  great and the harmonies rock. I love this song! Then theres the world  famous "MOVE OVER" or otherwise known as Generation Next. I love  seeing them perform this song and even though its not as good, the album  version rocks! Even if it is the Pepsi song. Next comes "DO IT."  Now "DO IT" and "DENYING" (the next song) tend to be  the forgotten tracks on this album. While not the best songs on the album  they are most definetly not the worst. I rather like them and love seeing  the Girls stage them. Next comes a favorite of mine, "VIVA  FOREVER," the oh-so-sweet ballad. The simplicity and beauty of this  song brings tears to the eye, I just love it. The final song on the album,  "LADY IS A VAMP," tends to get knocked a little. Why? Its fun and  I loved it the first time I heard it. Besides, where else can you hear Geri  carrying a song so well? I like it, its cute. All in all, this album is a  must. Even those who don't like cute pop can find somthing to enjoy in  SPICEWORLD. Besides, what else are you gonna listen to? Kid Rock? Korn?  BOO! The Spice Girls write their own lyrics, perform hamronies, dance, and  are alot of fun. This album is a credit to their name.