Before I give you my opinion on this movie, I have to preface it by saying that I am a huge fan of Sean Patrick Flanery. He's the reason I bought the movie. (I tried renting it, but it seems video stores were having trouble with people not returning this particular title.) He's the reason I watched it in the first place. I sat down to watch this movie with low expectations, because while I adore Sean, and think he's a talented actor, some of the films he's chosen to make are little... how shall I say this... different?!?
OK, all of that said, here's my review... I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It was stylistic, darkly comic, angry, lighthearted, charming, brutal, violent, intelligent... I know, I know, those seem like a bunch of contradictions. They are. So was this film. Just one contradiction after another. You've read the plot synopsis by now, I'm sure. Two brothers believing they are called by God to rid the world, or at least Boston, of the scum walking around in human form, set out on their mission to exterminate them all. That, in and of itself, is a contradiction. Getting rid of the bad guys by killing them makes the McManus brothers better people how exactly? This is the same delima faced by Willem Dafoe's character - he was WONDERFUL, by the way... what a performance! - as the facts of each of the murders fall into place and it is discovered that the targets of these murders are 'bad guys' only.
But I digress. Let's get to the root of things. The cast was great, plain and simple. Every one of them. I would have to say Willem Dafoe was my favorite, Sean Patrick was a close second (I'm a bit biased, but he really was good). And everyone else is tied for third. There was a startling lack of women in this movie. Like, aside from some extras in a few scenes, the news reporter, and the 'interviews' at the end, there weren't any. That's fine with me, because as a rule, I would say this is more of a guys' film anyway. My reason for that statement - and I didn't say it just get a rise out of the feminists of the world; after all I'm a woman, and I loved this movie - is that this an incredibly violent film. Lots, and I mean LOTS of blood and dying are involved.
Ok, I know I got off the subject more than once. Sorry about that. I loved the style of this movie, the flashbacks and the reconstruction of the second to last major gun battle being my favorite parts. I thought the news reports, and interviews with the public were a nice touch. And there's a little surpise toward the end that I never saw coming... possibly because by then I was wrapped up in the story, and the action.
If violence and language don't offend you, see this movie. Try it... You'll like it!