If you can imagine a blend of "9 to 5", "Smokey and the Bandit" and "Bonnie and Clyde", you should come up with an approximation of "Thelma and Louise": a mix of adventure, humor and comrade in the style of the Burt Reynold's chase movies, and getting even with the stereotypical men who try to abuse, control or recapture these 2 women intent on a short escape from their boring lives. The possession of a pistol or two and daredevil driving enables them to silence or elude most of the males who try to abuse or capture them or just have some fun with them. Clearly, Louise and Thelma initially have very different attitudes toward the men who try to seduce them. Louise makes it loud and clear  she wants no part of these amorous come ons, whereas Thelma, especially after a few drinks, is often flirtaceous and sometimes willing. But, Thelma eventually learned that fooling around with strange persistent men
can have traumatic consequences, and joined Louise in rebuffing these advances. According to the DVD commentary, many in the audiences cheered and clapped when Thelma's would be rapist is shot dead by Louise for his continued obscene threating remarks in the aftermath of Louise's breakup of the rape attempt. This clearly confirms what we may conclude from the popularity of confrontational westerns and action movies: that lethal vigilante justice, when done in appropriate circumstances, is considered justified by the majority of people, regardless of what the legal system thinks and does.
  One gets the impression that even if this duo didn't face probable long prison sentences, they might have become permanent runaways from their unsatisfying routine lives. It is significant that neither had children, which may have alleviated some of their dissatisfaction, and which made their overblown girls night out gone bad practical. The fact that both these women were often foul-mouthed, smoked and occasionally went to seedy bars turns off some viewers, who label them brainless white trash who perhaps deserve some of the misadventures they suffered in their attempt to  have a short escape from their boring lives.
  Brad Pitt and Michael Madison provide two handsome hunks for female viewers to drool over, though very different. Brad represents the perfect con man who exploits naive vulnerable women both sexually and financially. He was the perfect bad boy for Thelma to find release in. Michael represents a man who isn't willing to settle down to a permanent one on one relationship, but who is willing to make occasional sacrifices for the women he has relationships with.
  The ending seems appropriate for the duo. Like Bonnie and Clyde, the pair eventually knew they were doomed to long prison sentences, or to die in a shootout, car accident or by their own device. Like Bonnie and Clyde, they were prepared to elude their pursuers as long as possible, and to engineer their deaths if capture seemed imminently certain.
  This DVD is of excellent quality and includes several special features, including commentary versions by the director and by a combination of the main actresses and the screen writer.