"Uh-oh," as the film's tagline puts it, is right!
From the opening song "Mountain Town" to the offensively subversive "Uncle F," Matt Stone and Trey Parker have created a brilliant satire that just so happens to be one of the best musicals in recent memory.
Permenantly skewering the Disney animated films of the 90's early on with one simple song -- the aforementioned "Mountain Town" sounding like the uncut version of "Belle" from "Beauty and the Beast" -- "South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut" moves on, having bigger fish to fry as it sets its sights on censorship with such targets as the government and the Motion Picture Association of America.
But censorship isn't "South Park's" only targets as its scores direct hits on "Les Miserables," Microsoft chairman Bill Gates and even a jab at Jar Jar Binks from "The Phantom Menace" in an obvious last minute inclusion.
Cartman, Kyle, Stan and the death-prone Kenny make the jump to the big screen as do all the "South Park" gang with Winona Ryder, Saddam Hussein and even Satan coming along for the ride.
As I said earlier, the music and songs are absolutely fantastic (only "What Would Brian Boitano Do" falls short), with personal faves being the Oscar-nominated "Blame Canada," Cartman explaining why "Kile's Mom Is a Big, Fat B" and "Up There," Satan's big, show-stopping ballad which successfully grinds Ariel and her big, show-stopping "Part of Your World" from "The Little Mermaid" into fish food.
At times, the film goes to far (especially in the scenes between Satan and Hussein who has died and gone to Hell only to become Satan's lover!) and you find yourself laughing embaressedly inspite of yourself, but taste is not "South Park's" thing.  Stone and Parker are equal opportunity offenders and make a point of stunning and shocking you into paying attention to their message.
If you're looking for a tasteful comedy rent "Emma" or "Sense and Sensability" or something.  If you want to laugh yourself silly and don't care how dirty or ashamed you feel about afterwards then "South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut" is definately the film for you.