I watched the series (which is wonderful, and is a must-watch) and then this movie back to back. I was very much enamored with the series, and had built up all kinds of excitement for the movie. After all, after they made such a great series, the movie had to be awesome, right?

Unfortunately, this movie plays out more like 3 filler episodes with pointless exposition, with 1 episode worth of interesting plot development and action.

The animation is fantastic, and is a continuation of the great work they did in the series. It was nice seeing the characters, and the voice acting is great. However, the movie is just so boring. Also, it was very frustrating to me that No.9 wiped his memory again. It was complete deja vu, and really was just like watching 20 minutes of what I've already seen - girl gets in trouble, loses her bag, guy with wiped memory helps her, etc, etc.. They never explained why he wiped his memory... It just made it seem stupid really. In fact, they never really gave a good reason why he wiped his memory in the series, and this movie just drives that fact home. Yes, they gave a reason, but not a GOOD reason. It was a pretty stupid reason really.

They introduce some new characters, one is completely pointless and just a waste of animation frames. Some of the Selecao have some interesting plans - No.1 keeps the story at least bearable in the end, No.12 was keeping things somewhat interesting, and No.11 had some interesting scenes that you may like (I thought were dumb, but some might like). The little bit of plot furthering they did were done in the most boring ways possible.

To sum it up, I watched this movie on Netflix, and I'm angry that I wasted an hour+ of my life. I wish I would have just read a plot synopsis and moved on to the next movie. Do not buy this movie.. unless of course you are a serious Otaku in love with the series, then I understand. Or if you have poor taste, low standards, or are easily amused (or have a phone full of money to use).