This weekend I had the misfortune of watching this whole movie, the first time I'd watched it all in about 6 years. Like most people, usually I just watch the actual Bruce footage at the end, and skip everything in between. But my roommate and I were up for some punishment and sat through the movie. Here's some funny things I noticed that may help you get through your next viewing:
1. How smashed Gig Young is throughout the movie. The guy was obviously tanked on something during shooting. Notice his occasional slurring of lines, especially any scene in which he's on the telephone. Sadly, I read on the Internet Movie Database that Young killed himself in '78, as well as his wife. Notice that the year of his suicide was 1978, the same year GOD was released to the world...coincidence? 
2. Dean Jagger. The poor man seems almost senile, like he's not very sure where he is. I love the way he screams his lines, especially when he yells "Kill! CARL!!" During the Bob Wall/Sammo fight. Even though he appears to be at death's door in this movie, Jagger amazingly lived another 13 years.
3. Speaking of Bob Wall, I love that expression on his face in the locker room fight, after the fake Bruce knocks him on his behind. Bob's mouth is hanging open and he blinks a couple of times in shock, looking like he's just had the greatest sexual experience of his life and it's blown his mind.
4. The thugs in this movie are even less threatening than those in Way of the Dragon (aka Return of the Dragon). That sounds impossible, doesn't it?
5. The stand-in for Kareem is also hilarious. The guy looks like he's barely over 6 feet. 
6. Notice how that even though this is Hong Kong, every main character in the film save for the fake Bruce is a white American. White Americans controlling a crime ring in Hong Kong, white American staff reporters for Hong Kong papers, etc. Just like real life, huh?
7. The ineffectual assassin "Stick." Watch how he "perfectly" blends in with the extras and stagehands on the set of the Fist of Fury rip-off, in which the fake Bruce rushes the cameras and is shot (in the cheek?) by Stick. As if the people on the set wouldn't notice some sneaky-looking stranger with shifty eyes, dressed in the classic mafia get-up, carrying a revolver.
6. Four words: "You lose, Carl Miller!"
It's a shame that Game of Death is so bad, especially considering that the final ten minutes, with the actual Bruce Lee in scenes that he shot for the REAL Game of Death, contain some of the best martial arts footage ever seen on film.  No one knows how much of Game of Death Bruce actually completed, however there is at least 30 minute's worth, all of which will be seen in the soon-to-be-released documentary Warrior's Journey.  So keep your eyes peeled for that: Game of Death looked like it would have been Bruce's best movie yet, so it will be great to finally see it in the way he intended it to be seen, and NOT full of cut-rate B actors and beard-wearing imposters.