I have only one criterion for a movie: can I watch it over again? If yes, then, in my opinion, the movie is a good one. If no, well ...

I have watched WINGS well over 100 times since I first saw it in 1969. I bought the LaserDisc in 1985 and it was quite good but this new HD version is now the definitive one (I also bought the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0067MLCEI">Wings [Blu-ray</a>] which has this same transfer). The tinting and color effects have been effected according to Paramount's records (which survived in their archives) and the music is the original music written for the film, newly re-orchestrated and recorded. Ben Burtt's sound effects are, in a word, superb and the image, newly restored by Tom Burton and his team at Technicolor Los Angeles, is just plain wonderful (there is no other description suitable!).

The story itself is simple - two men in love with the same girl - but with a twist: there is another girl in love with one of the men.

The girl the men love stays home, but the other three wind up overseas during World War I, the love-struck girl in the Women's Motor Corps, and the men as fliers.

This sounds like a typical Hollywood pot-boiler but, take my word for it, it is NOT. The cinematography, the directing, and, especially, the acting performances are among the finest ever put on film.

Do you like 'action' pictures? Wait until you've seen the flying scenes in this one! They are the best ever done. They will NEVER be duplicated in any movie simply because they are all REAL! No insurance company would ever allow this nowadays. And you can certainly distinguish easily between real and rear projection and even modern computer-generated scenes. The two latter are (and look) fake, the former looks (and is) real.

When you see the stars Charles 'Buddy' Rogers and Richard Arlen up in the air, they really are up in the air! Not only did they have to fly their planes (for short distances - a 'real' pilot was crouched down behind them for take-offs and landings), they also had to operate the battery-powered camera to film their scenes. While the camera was operating, they also had to act - look closely at their lips and you will see some 'interesting' language. Rogers and Arlen each logged about 100 hours flying time (and Rogers had never even been up in a plane much less flew one!). The other pilots you see up there with them - all of them really flying and operating their cameras too - were either Army pilots or, for the more spectacular flying, Hollywood stunt fliers, these among the best who have ever lived!

In my own experience, men, women, and children - nearly everybody - really enjoy this picture. Watch it and you will see why!