The 2nd season of M*A*S*H really cements the legend of this ground breaking television show.  The producers and writers set the tone for how the show would feel for the next 2 or 3 seasons, and usher in the prime of this series.  The writing continues to become very strong and all the characters are defined and great vehicles for the hilarious and insane stories.  Although the DVD set contains no extras, none are really needed as the episodes stand on their own.  The highlights include:

"Divided We Stand" - Written by Larry Gelbart, "Divided" was written as almost a second pilot for new viewers.  Gen. Clayton (Herb Voland) remains as the main Army contact for the 4077th, and the off-beat humor with the possibility of being split up.

"For The Good Of The Outfit" - I actually was reading a biography of Kim Il Sung and it mentioned a massacre in Tae Dong.  I'm not sure if it inspired this episode, however this is one of the better dramatic episodes, showing the hypocrisy of war and U.S. military policy.

"Dr. Pierce And Mr. Hyde" - As someone who has suffered from insomnia, I can relate to this episode.  Alan Alda pulls double duty by starring and co-writing this installment.

"The Incubator" - A very funny tale exploring army red tape and the doctors defiance against it.  The opening sequence will bring back memories of waking up the day after a party.

"Deal Me Out" - The flagship episode of the 2nd season, this may be one of the funniest episodes of M*A*S*H ever.  A private (John Ritter) goes nuts, Dr. Sidney Freedman (Alan Arbus) makes his second appearance, and a slightly intense intelligence officer (Edward Winters) investigates an operation.

"Hot Lips And Empty Arms" - Written by Linda Bloodworth and Mary Kay Place, the character of Maj. Houlihan (Loretta Swit) is given a ton of complexity.

"Crisis" - The staff of the 4077th are forced to hunker together while being cut off by supply.  The night scenes of the guys sleeping together are very hysterical.

"A Smattering Of Intelligence" - This is the true introduction to the very relevant Col. Flagg, who after enduring a supposed helicopter crash lands in the 4077th.

This is one of the best seasons of this show, so pick it up.