Imagine Baz Luhrmann sitting around the Thanksgiving dinner table at the home of one of his Hollywood studio friends.  Stuffed full of turkey, they retire to the media room to watch what has become a Thanksgiving tradition, the classic film Wizard of Oz.  You can almost see the gears spinning in his mind as he reminds his companions that Aussies often refer to their mother country as "Oz".  Get it?  Well, if the point appears invisible as a glass-tipped spear, I suggest you witness his latest exercise in cinematic bombast.  Believe me, you'll get it.  Unfortunately, you'll get a whole lot more of it than what you really need.  Oh well, blame it on the Thanksgiving turkey.

Turkey - get it?

The correlation is not half as bad as being constantly reminded of it.  Glass tipped spear, get it?  You know, the set arranged like a rainbow on the mantlepiece, get it?  One spear is missing, get it?  Luhrmann constantly treats his audience like school children who need to be spoon fed the punch line.  Which brings up another irritation of this movie.  What type of audience is this movie geared toward?  Australia is certainly not a family film, there is way too much graphic imagery for any child under age twelve.  The graphic nature contradicts the Disneyesque feel of this movie.  From the very beginning of the boy's narration to the juvenile pop songs that resonate throughout the closing credits, we are led to believe that "this is the way movies used to be made, when you could take the whole family to the theater and be treated to something larger than life."

No you cannot - not with this movie.  Unless you are a child sadist.  Or, considering the three hour duration, a masochist.

The plot centers around a boy coming of age; early on in the film, he witnesses first hand an incredible tragedy.  This brings to mind yet another pet peeve found in many films and TV episodes - how can a child (or any character for that matter, not least of which a widow examining her dead husband with a spear through his chest) be traumatized so badly, yet spend the rest of the film behaving like nothing ever happened.  How can people dance and sing across a battleground riddled with corpses?  This is just not realistic.

Not that Australia could ever be considered a realistic portrayal of anything anyway.  The only thing realistic about this movie is the quality of the acting.  Given the absurd context, every actor (to their credit) provides a splendidly memorable performance. Nicole Kidman has never been better - her close-ups are breathtaking. (Although she is one stiff breeze from having her Michael Jackson nose blow right off her face!) Hugh Jackman is rough but irresistably sensitive, his jeans painted on like a ballet dancer.  Brandon Walters gives one of the finest child acting performances in recent memory.

This movie has so much going for it, what a shame to be left in the hands of a Dino DeLaurentis wannabe hell bent on outdoing himself with every scene.  Nothing illustrates this vicious cycle of excess more than the constant barrage of engineered images littered across the stark yet beautiful landscapes.  The cinematographer must have shed many tears over the mauling of his artwork.

"Can't we squeeze another battleship into that harbor. . . let's double the size of that herd. . .  How about another round of Japanese carpet bombing. . ."

Like overindulgence at a Thanksgiving meal, the viewer is left wondering if half as much would have been twice as good.

Five stars for the acting and storyline; zero stars for Oztentatiousness.