A case for the status quo, or is it? This film makes a good case for its more altruistic motivations , ie I did not know that much about Kuwait charging the US liberators the same price as all else for its oil; or Saddam Hussein's offer of $10 a barrel oil as long as he lived if the US looked the other way while Kuwait and Saudi Arabia felt his tenderness of T-72  invasionary tanks.

I already knew how weak Europe is militarily. In WW1 they could send enough men out in to the battlefield to lose upwards of 800,000 people (Britain 886,939, France 1,397,800, Germany 2,050,897) yet with greater population densities than they had in 1914, Europe combined could only send pathetic squab forces to the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990's.  And these "peacekeeping" forces were forbidden from shooting at the belligerents which were massacring civilians even as the peacekeepers looked on.  That is until the US intervened and tidied it all up for them.

I have conflicting feelings about this, Europe might be forced learn something if the US stayed out, spent that defense money on bridges in Minnesota while the Yugoslav conflict "burned out."  Millions more would die horribly of course, lost while Europe debates the best course of action about the morality of having men serve in their armed forces and sending them somewhere to get shot at while they attempted to uphold the human rights of an oppressed population which was not their own.  Or just accept what was done as the right decision, the US intervened bombed and sent troops while the other major powers all about wrung their hands in indecision.

With their wealth, the film makes me think about, yes, it would seem Europe should take care of its own defense business as they seem to hate Uncle Sam with a passion, yet anything which requires a tank or a battleship, Europeans are clueless to proceed, crying "uncle."  This film was produced in 2008 and with the current worsening economic climate, expecting Europe to spend some money to defend itself ever seems more remote.

The ending of the film, with its suggestion about a possible Chinese reaction to a Japan nuclear arming without the US, does seem a bit over the top.  But then again, hatreds of those two nations run deep, passionately and have been longstanding.  Japan's recent nuclear accident will most certainly place it even further from considering a nuclear deterrent (as if they were ever remotely considering it).

Five stars minus one for the President Turner intro.  I think they should have approached this as either an informative documentary or a story, but both together did not mesh that well