How does one fashion whimsy?  Can nostalgia be created from miles of celluloid film?  Is it possible for the essence of an era never-born to be experienced by those of us unfortunate enough to be stuck in reality?  Could such an accomplishment even be fathomed after similarly-themed attempts--such as the disastrous "Down With Love"--rocked our collective confidence in the capabilities of human imagination?  Director Kerry Conran both asks and, I believe, answers these questions with "Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow."

Atmosphere is instantly created in the opening scene as a huge zeppelin, the "Hindenberg III," soars over the Manhattan skyline--a megalithic representation of how everything will be done in this film.  Things and concepts which grant the movie its own identity are further emphasized by exaggerating their size and overall character, to good effect.  Dr. Vargas departs the airship in a paranoid rush, looking everywhere as if he is a man hunted; of course, a predator's quarry is exactly what he is, and the good doctor's hourglass no longer contains any sand.  We witness the involuntary departure of Dr. Vargas with the concomitant appearance of a gloved hand, crossing his name off a list.

Events such as these do not go unnoticed by those well-connected, and Polly Perkins (Gwyneth Paltrow, "Se7en") is the reporter with just the right amount of ambition to connect the strands of this mystery.  She meets with Dr. Jennings in a dark theater, and learns that his is the last name remaining on the list.  He informs her that the danger which exists today has roots in the past:  plans that were put into motion in the twilight years of World War I are still being powered today, thirty years later, by some malevolent force.  This shrouded meeting is interrupted by the blaring of klaxons.  Polly rushes into the streets to witness the chaos which erupts as squadrons of gigantic, flight-capable robots begin their systematic dismantling of the Big Apple's energy supply.  The city responds with its only available weapon--radio towers sound out a desperate call to Sky Captain (Jude Law, "Alfie") and his group of aerial soldiers-for-hire.  Pushing his fighter to perform aeronautic feats which would impress a Hoth-based Luke Skywalker, Sky Captain manages to trip-up one of the dreadnaughts, prompting the abrupt cessation of the robotic attack.  From there, the movie is quick to reunite the former lovers and establish them on their path as they experience the destruction of Sky Captain's base, the depth of their enemies' plans, and their role in the fate of the world.

Fans of comic books or role-playing games will most likely be familiar with the genre this film is set in--that of alternate futures and alternate pasts.  Set in the latter part of the 1940's, "Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow" mixes past, present, and future technology so that there is both an element of the recognizable and unrecognizable in each scene.  For example, while escaping a winged mechanical monstrosity, Sky Captain crashes his plane into the sea.  Luckily enough, his "aircraft" is equipped for this insult, and comes complete with an airtight cockpit and ballast mechanics which allow for easy maneuvering in the great blue undersea yonder.  Also filling this wondrous basket of technological goodies are electric coil traps, gigantic assembly lines with mechanized, hovering robotic attendants, massive airships which dwarf today's aircraft carriers, and innominate undersea mechanical leviathans.  It seems that, for Conran, big is beautiful.

The ultimate story likewise tracks with the overall theme--the big, bad guy has a big, bad plan.  The final thirty minutes made the movie, in my opinion.  In my mind's eye, I can transport H.G. Wells into the audience and watch his reactions.  The acting might cause him to smirk, the action may result in a yawn, the visuals could make him smile; however, the denouement will result in Wells giving the movie a standing ovation.  Such a monstrously overdone ending--in terms of idea, scale, and execution--should have resulted in the film falling flat on its face; nevertheless, the finale is absolutely consistent with the rest of the movie.  "Sky Captain" captures you with the hopeful innocence of bygone eras and doesn't let to until you have come full-circle--yet another satisfied victim who understands the real meaning of whimsy.  In my opinion, Conran is due contracts for two sequels as reward for his work on this unsung gem.  Spare a moment to watch this film if you have need of a smile.