I was lucky enough to catch this at the sneak preview and I am so glad I did.  Now when I write a review for a movie starring Johnny Depp I can hardly say my opinion is unbiased, as I do own 10 movies he's starred in and two posters adorn my walls, but I believe non-fans of him will enjoy the magic of "Finding Neverland."

The story of J.M. Barrie and his inspiration for the famous play "Peter Pan" will pull on your heartstrings and make you see the magic of being a child and the power of imagination. During a chance meeting at a park after a disastrous play the night before, Barrie (Johnny Depp) meets the widow Sylvia Llewelyn Davies (Kate Winslet) and her four boys.  They become quick friends because of Barrie's childlike personality and antics.

The whole movie is very well-casted with both the adults and the children.  Depp gives his usual knockout performance that makes you believe that he truly is J.M. Barrie.  Kate Winslet also shines at Sylvia Davies and plays her role with elegance and truly fits her character.  Still, one of the best stars in the movie is Freddie Highmore who plays Peter, Barrie's inspiration for the boy who never wants to grow up.  He displays his emotions so well and makes a real connection with the audience.  Castmates, Depp and Winslet, were very impressed with his acting talent, and Depp even got Highmore the role of Charlie in the upcoming movie "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." Highmore almost steals the show, but Depp and Winslet's performances shine through with their onscreen chemistry and a lot of heart.  The supporting cast featuring Julie Christie and Dustin Hoffman is not to be ignored, as they both give great performances as their characters.  Julie Christie plays a perfect sort of `villian' in the film as Sylvia's mother who wants Barrie out of her son's lives and Dustin Hoffman brings comedic light wherever he shows up in the movie as Barrie's play producer.

The story is simplistic, but is told with a lot of charm and a great mixture of humor and emotions that will make you laugh and then, moments later, get teary-eyed.  `Finding Neverland' is a magical ride with great acting and can take you away to your own Neverland.