Review: After watching this film for the second time I can't help but love every minute of it. Just look at how much work they put into this movie. True the music from the actual album is better and they changed it on this(after one viewing I was disapointed), but seeing it again just made me realize that changing it a bit wasn't such a bad thing, because they gave it a bigger musical feeling to it and it exploded with so much craziness to it my eyes were just amazed at the sets and props put into this film, they seemed to have worked very hard to make it what it is. Shame on the viewers for letting the review of this classic get so low. Tommy just makes me respect the band even more then I did, the fact that Roger Daltry is willing to go out there and act is amazing and have lots of fun doing it. This movie is out there man, it's so much fun and entertaining I was surprized by the low rating. People don't know any better. It's The Who, do you expect The Godfather or Gone With the Wind? No you expect lots of fun, crazy costumes, drunkin hooligans, Keith Moon kicking his drum set over, Pete Townshend smashing his guitar, lots of singing and dancing, foolin' around, acting like a bunch of fools with talent and some rock and roll! I think I might actually like this more then The Wall, dont get me wrong, The Wall is a great movie with amazing animations, but it's not as fun as Tommy and I don't see Roger Waters daring enough to act, although I do love Pink Floyd more then The Who, but The Wall is sort of a rip off of this movie man, but obviously darker. Pink Floyd might be the better band, but Tommy was the better album I think. Tommy is a blast and one of the coolest and zaniest stories you'll ever see and hear!

Best Moments: The foam and alchohal pouring from a television, or it may of been chocalate, couldn't really tell. Elton John as the Pinball Wizard and his huge shoes. Eric Clapton as the preacher with Pete and John blocking the crowd with their guitars and the huge Marylin Monroe statue everyone praises. Keith Moon, being all crazy like with bad teeth, as Tommys uncle. Jack Nicholson! He's like Mr. Cool in everything he does. Most importantly Roger Daltry being daring enough to play Tommy. I respect him so much for getting out their and making a fool out of himself, and darn it he made a good blind person. This band it a riot!

Weak Moment: They could have done better with the singing, maybe it was my speakers, but the singing, not that it didn't match what they were singing, it just didn't look like other musicals, where it looked like they were singing it while it was being filmed, instead of mouthing over their singing. Other then that, everything is awesome!

Unique/Bizarre Moment: Tina Turners face when she's freaking out and her shot machine draining the blood of Tommy. Pete Townshends lyrics! Not only does he rock on the guitar, but he writes basically everything they ever did and Tommy is quite unique and very bizarre. Again the foam coming out of the television.

Tommy, the ultimate Rock Opera! Enjoy!