The first time I saw this movie was when it was released in theaters back in 1996.  I thought it was quite enjoyable and my husband and a guy friend who saw it with us, enjoyed it as well.  However, after watching it, I never really thought about it again.  
About a year ago, however, I rented it and just fell in love with it.  After re-renting it so many times, I finally went ahead and bought the DVD.  Frankly, I don't quite understand how I missed how great this movie was the first time.  I suspect it might have been Austen overload, as 1995-96 was right around the time that when Austenmania gripped Hollywood.  Anyhow, I can't say enough about how much fun this movie is and how infinitely re-watchable it is.  The acting by the entire cast, from Gwyneth Paltrow to Jeremy Northam, Toni Collette, to Sophie Thompson and Phylidda Law, is simply superb.  Gwyneth is much better here than she was (IMO) in Shakespeare in Love.  It's hard to take your eyes off her; her Emma just so funny -- supremely confident in always knowing what's right for everyone and, to her and no one else's amazement, invariably is always proved wrong.  Jeremy Northam is also wonderful as Mr. Knightley.  Austen's Knightley in the book is so gentlemanly and perfect that he can almost be a cipher.  Northam however allows us to see into Mr. Knightley's psyche as he battles with Emma and her machinations, and his own exasperation, anger, jealousy and lust.  His body language and eyes convey it all.  Although Toni Collette is a bit of a miscast because she visually doesn't match Austen's Harriet, she redeems herself admirably by being so lovably dim that you can't help but wish her the happy ending she deserves.  And Sophie Thompson is just perfect:  funny and heartbreaking.
Although I agree with other reviewers that this version of Emma is not perfect (it loses some of Austen's sense of irony, just drops the ball on the Frank and Jane subplot, and never really let's you get too mad at Emma, who frankly deserves it), I think it makes up for it with the sheer joy, beauty, humor and romance of it all.  To put it another way:  As an adaptation, I'd rank it as 3-1/2 stars; as a movie, I give 5 stars plus!  It's just wonderful moviemaking.