When the first Shrek came out in theaters, I didn't bother to go see it since I thought it was a movie geared more towards little kids.  But after I heard more of the hype and some of my friends told me it was a really good flick for any age, I went ahead and bought it when it came out on DVD and it did not disappoint.  I was rolling on the floor!  When Shrek 2 came along, went and saw it in the theaters and was rolling in the aisles!

Before seeing any movie, I like to read reviews about it.  (Even if I know I'll want to see it anyway no matter what the reviews say)  I only read reviews by the everyday Joe, not critics since they usually go more to critique a movie, not to enjoy it.  Shrek 3 had mixed reviews, and I wished I had listened to the ones saying it sucked before I wasted my 5 bucks!

Shrek the Third stinks like your neighbor's cookin'!  The first 2 were great, the 2nd surpassing the first in some ways, but by the time they got to making the 3rd it seems like the writers had dug out of their recycle bins for ideas because they couldn't think of any fresh ones!  The story is dull and strung together, rarely any truly funny moments (maybe enough to give you a chuckle here and there), and a number of obvious jokes that a child of 6 could fill in went unused during the course of the movie!  Example:  When King Harold (as a frog) dies, Puss 'n' Boots just says, "The king is dead." or something to that affect.  HELLO!!!  Instead it should have been, "The king has croaked."!  It is pretty obvious and may be such a cheap joke that you could find it at a $.99 cent store, but a cheap joke here and there is better than none at all!  And that's pretty much what the 3rd Shrek movie has---nothing!

I can't believe that this movie did as well as it did at the box office.  Recently I read that Dreamworks already has Shrek 4 in the works (to be released in 2009) and that there is even talk of a Shrek 5!  If Shrek the 3rd is any indication of how the next one will be, they should have stopped at Shrek 2!  On the other hand, it might end up being like the Alien series; the 3rd one sucked, but the 4th (while not as good as the first 2) was still better than the 3rd one, no contest!