Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country is the final film of the original-series movies, and carries the old crew out with a bang.  Returning to the action and adventure of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, Star Trek VI offers space battles, show trials, murder mysteries, assassination plots, high treason, more than a little Shakespeare, and perhaps above all else, a fitting conclusion to the Kirk-Spock-McCoy era.

As every devoted fan knows, the Klingons of the original series were not the quasi-Japanese samurai of later times, but were rather depicted as parallels to America's then-foe, the Soviets.  While only rarely played out in a heavy-handed way, this theme ran throughout the series' three year run, and comes into its own in Star Trek VI.  Herein, we are confronted with a collapsing Klingon Empire, forced to seek peace because it can no longer afford war, reaching out to the Federation (America) lest it die, while many at home oppose the change (for reasons both honorable and otherwise), and many in the Federation are unwilling or unable to believe such can be true.

Even the opening scene is powerful, with the main title's climax memorably not part of the score, but rather the screen-filling explosion of the Klingon moon Praxis.  Praxis, we are told, is a key Klingon power facility, and its Chernobyl-like destruction precipitates the rest of the action, as the Empire first covers up its problems and then, as those problems prove overwhelming, turns to the Federation for the respite it needs to rebuild.

From this beginning, a Captain Spock already easing into his future role as Ambassador first opens a dialogue with the Klingon Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) and then convinces Starfleet Command to send a very unwilling Captain James T. Kirk and crew on one last mission prior to their retirement, escorting the Chancellor and his party to a peace summit on Earth.  Kirk's poignant log entries about the death of his son at the hands of Klingons (in Star Trek III) and his fears concerning the Klingons' sincerity return to haunt him as, after an assassination plot succeeds against the Chancellor and is pinned on Kirk, he and McCoy stand trial on the Klingon homeworld and are sentenced to life in the ice-moon prison camp of Rura Penthe.  From there the action only builds, as the pair try to escape their fate, the Enterprise crew tries to rescue them (and solve the murder) without provoking an interstellar war, and the traitors (on both sides, including the Klingon General Chang, beautifully played by Christopher Plummer) who carried out the original plot seek again to start that war by attacking the peace negotiators, secretly relocated to the remote Camp Khitomer.  A climactic space battle, a second near-assassination, and a quantum shift in intragalactic relations close out not only a magnificent movie but an era.

There are quibbles.  Time seems to have little meaning to the writers, who frequently have (among other things) the Enterprise traveling distances which require weeks (at least) in hours.  There is an odd scene in which the Federation President is briefed by his general staff -- and in which he barely listens to them -- while inexplicably allowing the Romulan ambassador to sit in.  In fact, the entire movie is riddled with strange moments and impossible happenings, anomalies unimaginable in any other Trek installment except perhaps the hideous Star Trek V.

It just doesn't matter.  Star Trek VI rocks.  Even as the ardent fan picks apart the most annoying errors, he finds himself engrossed in what is unarguably one of the best Star Trek -- indeed, one of the best science fiction -- stories ever.  The acting, the special effects, and above all the plot of this rollicking good tale, as well as the knowledge throughout that this is the last voyage of the original crew, makes this not only a wonderful movie, but an unforgettable good time.  It mustn't be missed; indeed, it must be seen again and again and again.