Took me forever to finally see this film I had kept hearing so much about. And let me say, I really dug it. It was cheesy and lame, yes, but that's the beauty of it. It really payed homage to old Italian horror cinema, similar to the likes of Argento, and that made it stand out from most of the "horror" films that come out nowdays. The acting wasn't all that great. I liked the lead female character, Jane Scarlett a lot though. She has a great look to her and I think she pulled off the naive psychic schtick rather well. I read somewhere it was her first film too, so I thought that was rather interesting. I wasn't nuts about the male lead (Sergio Jones). At times he seemed like a dinner theatre actor or something. The rest of the investigation team was not bad. I especially liked the character of "Shelly", who theives jewelry from a room in the mansion, only to turn around and see a band of zombies and yell "the power of christ compells you!" As for the succubi, well..I've seen a few of director West's earlier flicks and we can guess he scraped the bottom of his previous barrell to find the girls who played these parts. Besides a plain-looking dark haired girl with a thick accent (was that Russian?), he cast Barbara Joyce and Ruby larocca as the other two succubi-which in my opinion soiled the film some. Joyce is a nice looking woman and all, but her acting skills leave much to be desired, and her seduction scene is the fakest of all, where when she's humping her victim, it looks more like she's leaning on something and just bouncing up and down. Pretty silly. And I've never much been a fan of Ruby Larocca's either. I don't find her to be very attractive (what's with those moles!?), and her acting ability, as well, leaves much more to be desired than Joyce's. She plays a silly little girl type character and seems to "over-act" on the part. West should've left these two where they belong-in the annals of softcore porn. But asides from that, the rest of the cast is well-rounded out enough. The film has an interesting story to it, and the cinematography is great. Oh yeah, and the Buckethead score is also a definate plus.