The new DVD, Peter Pan (directed by P.J. Hogan), is "a fun and fantastic tale" (Daily Herald) and "one of the finest films of the year!" (Daily Gazette) This DVD is chocked full of adventures, imagination and timely fun for a family of all ages. Instead of the animated version we are all a costume to, this film has actual actors, actresses and sets. In the very first motion picture, the characters are fun and entertaining, but in the newest release of this film (premiered in 2003), all of the characters have deep internal thoughts that are conveyed through their movement and in the tone of their lines.

A family of two sons: John Darling (Harry Newell) and Michael Darling (Freddie Popplewell), and the oldest, a daughter, Wendy Darling, who is played by Rachel Hurd-Wood. The casting in this film is something that everyone should enjoy. For example, Tink is played by a French actress by the name of Ludivine Sagnier. She has a whole assortment of fabulous expressions and body movements to actually become Peter's fairy. With the help of computer animation after filming, animators were able to give Ludivine actual fairy detailing such as wings and fairy dust.

The storyline follows the classic setting of an English family living in the 1900's. Wendy is on the brink of becoming a young woman; but she holds onto her childhood by telling stories to her younger brothers. It is then that we are introduced to the main character, Peter Pan himself, played by Jeremy Sumpter. When Peter comes to hear Wendy's stories, his shadow gets loose in her room causing them to meet for the first time. After Peter and Wendy get to know each other, it is then that Peter decides to take Wendy and her two brothers back `home' with him to Neverland. Neverland is a place "[two] star[s] to the right and straight on `till morning." To get to this place called Neverland, the children must learn to fly by thinking happy thoughts and by being sprinkled by fairy dust. Wendy soon discovers that Peter has no mother or father. When he was younger, he was determined to run away from his future. He went to Neverland because that is the only place where no one can grow older.

When in Neverland, Wendy realizes that she can no longer remember what her mother and father were like so she decides to take her brothers and go home before "they intern [forget]" (DVD) as well. Peter does not want Wendy and the boys to leave; he wants them to stay in Neverland so that they will not be pushed to grow up like back in London. Wendy knows in her heart that she must grow up because it is a part of life and it is what she is intended to do. Upon her return, she and her brother's are welcomed by their parents.

Years later, Wendy is a grown woman with a child of her own. One night, Peter comes to her window and sees her knitting by the fire and does not recognize her. He goes over to the bed side and expects to find her the way she was many years ago. After Peter realizes she has grown up, he decides to take her daughter to Neverland so that she could experience the same adventures Wendy did.

"The magical, the excitement, the wonder of the true Peter Pan comes to life for the first time in this spellbinding fantasy...brimming with spectacular special effects and non-stop action, this all-new adventure is sure to be a family film for years to come!" (DVD back cover)

(608 words)