No one can dispute Michael Jackson's dominance over pop music and his far reaching influence; music, dance, fashion, video, humanitarianism, generosity -- he was at the forefront of it all and remains unmatched.  Like any true legend, even in death, MJ continues to be a force of creativity and inspiration to millions.  And now, finally, his revolutionary short films are available for all to own and enjoy on DVD, and I for one, am thrilled!

I've been looking forward to this DVD box set ever since Michael died.  It doesn't take a genius or clairvoyant to know we're in store for many wonderful projects to come, headlining the King of Pop.  Some call this opportunistic; bleeding MJ fans for money.  But I don't see it that way -- the estates and legacies of Elvis, Marilyn Monroe, James Dean, etc. continue to live on with various merchandising deals, and so too, will MJ.  He has MORE than earned his place in history, and I for one, look forward to all that's yet to come.  In the meantime, I scoured the internet for rare gems like "Ghosts" and the controversial prison version of the video "They Don't Care About Us."  But the quality of the unofficial footage out there is pretty terrible, so I'm really excited to finally own all these great masterpieces, fully restored and re-mastered to look and sound better than ever before!  With over 40 videos totaling 4.5 hours of wall to wall MJ, and 10 previously unreleased short films, this is the one and only, truly definitive MJ collection on DVD to date.

I only hope that someday, they also release this on a USB flash drive, like they did for <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00332GA8I">THIS IS IT (USB)</a>.  I have that one on both Blu-Ray and USB (which I transferred to my hard drive) and I really enjoy having the video file on my computer for fast and easy access.  If I want to sit and watch the whole movie, I pop in the Blu-Ray; if I just want to watch a particular moment or song on impulse, then I simply click on the video file on my computer and instantly go to the song I want.  It's really awesome to be able to do that, so I hope they release something similar for Michael Jackson's Vision on USB.  I would love to have the same instant access to all MJ's videos just sitting there on my computer hard drive!  Who needs DVDs; they're so yesterday!  But they are ideal for archiving, which is exactly what makes this DVD so special.  I consider owning this treasured collection to be the same as possessing personal mementos and photos of my own life; both are part of my past and conjure fond memories, yet remain as real and alive today as when I first experienced them.

Speaking of archives, it's worth mentioning that Michael's "Thriller" short film is the one and only music video to ever be inducted into the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress; an honor bestowed on only a handful of films to date, and MJ is the only musician to receive such an honor.

Along with all the great videos, both classic and unreleased, this box set comes with a 60 page glossy collector's book featuring the King of Pop; adding yet another treasure to enjoy along with the DVDs themselves.  This is truly, a one of a kind box set that any fan will be proud to own.  And it's a fitting tribute to such a rare and special man.

Here's the complete track list of these awesome DVD's and their short film masterpieces:

DISC 1

1 - Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough (4:12)
Director: Nick Saxton

2 - Rock With You (3:22)
Director: Bruce Gowers

3 - She's Out of My Life (3:35)
Director: Bruce Gowers

4 - Billie Jean (4:54)
Director: Steve Barron

5 - Beat It (4:57)
Director: Bob Giraldi

6 - Thriller (13:42)
Director: John Landis (little more need be said about this one, but it co-starred Ola Ray, and was famously voiced over by Vincent Price.)

7 - Bad (18:05)
Director: Martin Scorsese (co-starring Wesley Snipes)

8 - The Way You Make Me Feel (9:24)
Director: Joe Pytka (with a cameo by La Toya Jackson)

9 - Man In the Mirror (5:03)
Director: Don Wilson

10 - Dirty Diana (5:05)
Director: Joe Pytka

11 - Smooth Criminal (9:27)
Director: Colin Chilvers

12 - Another Part of Me (4:45)
Director: Patrick T. Kelly

13 - Speed Demon (10:08)
Director: Will Vinton

14 - Come Together (5:40)
Director: Jerry Kramer & Colin Chilvers

15 - Leave Me Alone (4:36)
Director: Jim Blashfield and Paul Diener

16 - Liberian Girl (5:34)
Director: Jim Yukich(featuring VIRTUALLY EVERYONE important, hip and happening in Hollywood at the time: dedicated to Elizabeth Taylor and featuring Steven Spielberg, John Travolta, Paula Abdul and waaaaaaay too many others to mention. There's even a cute moment with Weird Al Yankovic who used to spoof MJ!  Fun! And shows what clout MJ had to get all those big names.)

Total Disc 1:  1hr 52min

DISC 2

1 - Black or White (11:01)
Director: John Landis (with Macaulay Culkin, George Wendt and a small bit featuring Tyra Banks)

2 - Remember The Time (9:16)
Director: John Singleton (co-starring Eddie Murphy, Iman and Magic Johnson)

3 - In the Closet (6:05)
Director: Herb Ritts (co-starring Naomi Campbell)

4 - Jam (7:59)
Director: David Nelson (co-starring Michael Jordan)

5 - Heal The World (7:32)
Director: Joe Pytka

6 - Give In To Me (5:29)
Director: Andy Morahan

7 - Who Is It (6:34)
Director: David Fincher

8 - Will You Be There (5:55)
Director: Vincent Paterson (Theme from the movie Free Willy)

9 - Gone Too Soon (3:38)
Director: Bill DiCicco (Dedicated to Ryan White, who, before he died, spoke about how much it meant to him that MJ would get in a hot tub with him back when people wouldn't even touch a person with HIV/AIDS.)

10 - Scream (4:47)
Director: Mark Romanek (co-starring the impeccable Janet Jackson!)

11 - Childhood (4:29)
Director: Nicholas Brandt (Theme from the movie Free Willy 2)

12 - You Are Not Alone (5:34)
Director: Wayne Isham (with Lisa Marie Presley)

13 - Earth Song (6:44)
Director: Nicholas Brandt (WOW!! This is the one Joe Jackson proudly called his all time favorite MJ song!)

14 - They Don't Care About Us (7:08)
Director: Spike Lee

15 - Stranger In Moscow (5:33)
Director: Nicholas Brandt

16 - Blood On The Dance Floor (5:27)
Director: Michael Jackson & Vincent Patterson

17 - Ghosts (3:58)
Director: Stan Winston (featuring MJ in a great disguise!! Allegedly spoofing the Santa Barbara DA)

18 - You Rock My World (13:30)
Director: Paul Hunter (co-starring Chris Tucker from Rush Hour!  AND none other than Academy Award Winner, Marlon Brando!)

19 - Cry (4:57)
Director: Nick Brandt (a really nice lost gem of a song and video)

Total Disc 2: 2hrs 5min

DISC 3 (Bonus Features)

1 - Blame It On the Boogie - The Jacksons (3:32)

2 - Enjoy Yourself - The Jacksons (3:31)

3 - Can You Feel It - The Jacksons (9:37)

4 - Say Say Say - Paul McCartney & Michael Jackson (4:57)
Director: Bob Giraldi

5 - They Don't Care About Us - Prison version (4:52)
Director: Spike Lee

6 - Why? - 3T (Tito's kids' band) featuring Michael Jackson (4:33)

7 - One More Chance - previously unreleased (4:03)

Total Disc 3: 35min

That's quite a collection of short films!  The only one really missing is Disney's Captain EO!  Which BTW, had the help of none other than George Lucas.  No other artist in history has worked with so many top A-List people in their videos.  Only Michael could reach such a wide spectrum, break down all barriers and make something like that happen.  The man remains a rare and special anomaly.  Bravo Michael!

Bottom Line -- if you're a fan of Michael Jackson, then you can't go wrong with this beautiful DVD box set.  And it's even reasonably priced, considering who it is and all that's on here!  I know this is something I'll treasure forever.  The words "special" and "genius" are bandied about far too freely, but in this instance, the man truly lives up to the meaning of those words, and then some!  Thank you Michael, for all you have given, and continue to give us all.

MJ Forever!