Ok so obviously we should cover the basics here, before I delve any further.  We have all seen this story, a million times, nerdy guy gets the girl, but really only because he realizes he actually has self-worth in a world full of people who put him down. That being said it could seem difficult to see what makes this movie special.  Well let me lay it out for you.  You ever felt out of place? Let down? Worthless? So does the lead guy in the film! IN FACT, he is so down on himself he is willing to date a total witch who is also dating another guy than be alone!

All the while he has a few really good friends behind him, offering a good kick in the pants to motivate him. So what happens when a perfect 10 falls into his lap? He totally blows it.  Yes, just like each and every human being on earth has done at some point in their lives this guy goes from bad to worse as he tries to navigate the waters of love, and it just gets funnier and funnier. Not because he cannot figure it out, but because as you watch this movie, the way it is written, and the characters acting the story create a familiar scene that will make you remember that special time in your life when you could just not get the mood right to save your life, and YOU WILL LAUGH IF YOU LET YOURSELF!

The best part though? This movie was a huge hollywood production that starred a BARELY recognizable cast.  I have no problems with Brad and Jen, but honestly what helped me watch this was the fact that I stared at their faces and did not know who the heck these people were, so the film really offered the sense that the dorky guy and the hot chick could be two of your best friends (or even yourself) in that situation of love gone arwy, and just to top it all of the ending (though romantic and properly mushy) will leave you rolling in your seat just like the rest of the movie.

That being said I will leave you with a final thought.  If you are in the mood to see a gushy romantic film, to think and process, or you do not enjoy somewhat dumb and but thoroughly witty and completely sexual humor (as some of you do not) DO NOT SEE THIS! This movie is meant for a fun, romantic time to laugh and enjoy so ENJOY IT!

Thanks! Off to another movie!

-Moviegeek