As this will be my last review of the Foyle's War episodes, please bear with me.

 After last week's anti-American theme, we now have one on homosexual politics ("Among the Few").

 As I said last week, I like Mr. Kitchens' character and how well he plays the role. I do not like what Mr. Horowitz is doing with him or his character, which is trying to socially engineer his audience.

 "Among the Few" uses a formula that has been kicking around Hollywood for more than 40 years: 1) identify some people you believe to be "oppressed"; 2) create a character to represent them; 3) have your main character display compassion toward them; 4) kill off your "oppressed" character near the end to gain audience sympathy for him and those he represents; and finally, 5) solidify feelings of sympathy among your audience by having your main character(s) extol his virtues.

 That hackneyed formula still works on unsuspecting audiences, which most audiences remain ("It's only entertainment!"), almost as well as the age old theme of boy meets girl, boy falls for girl, boy loses girl and boy wins girl back. The difference is that whereas the boy-girl theme is natural and one with which 99% of audiences identify, these other themes are politics.

 In some cases their use has been productive, however, in others, such as (homosexual/feminist) sexual politics, with which large numbers of people in many societies disagree, their use is motivated by somewhat naive social engineering, naive, because at best it will only work for a while and cause of increasing divisions (not unity) within society.

 Give me the days when people stood up and spoke directly to you, told you what they believed (and wanted you to believe) and you could tell them in no uncertain terms how much you agreed or disagreed with their positions.

 What the entertainment industry is doing these days is exercising a subtle form of control through entertainment-as-propaganda, a phrase I used in my review of the "Fifty Ships" episodes last week. Such subtle forms of control over you and me are very difficult to "countercontrol."

 So, how does all this relate to the episode, "Among the Few"?

 We learn only toward the end of this episode that Foyle's son's best buddy in the RAF is homosexual and that he has a crush on Foyle's son himself! How risky(?), bold(?) shameless(?) [you pick the adjective(s)] is Mr. Horowitz to bring this theme so close to his main character.  One wonders.

 He has the young man say to Foyle, "You must despise me," while having Foyle say, "No, not at all." What are the intellectual and emotional implications of that exchange for you, a member of the "entertained" audience? The intellectual implication of course is that Foyle accepts the man for what he is, more than the man can accept himself. The associated emotional implication is one of pity for the man.

 Mr. Horowitz has made the young man responsible for the death of his pregnant "girlfriend," and, as Foyle is about to arrest him, he begs Foyle to wait since he needs to fly a mission that day and it will be impossible without him. At that point, those, familiar with the Hollywood formula, see the inevitable: he won't return. Sure enough, after we see the flyers taking off, the next scene has Foyle's son telling Foyle that his best friend has died in a plane crash. He didn't just die, of course, he was a hero fighting the enemy with great ferocity ("I've never seen flying like that."). Foyle's son says he waited and waited for his friend to bail out but he never did. Now we are being led to infer that his friend's death may have been suicidal; can't live with the shame and all that. Emotional implications for how the audience is to feel: sadness, pity and sympathy.

 (As I said last week, I had not previously "spoiled" the endings in my reviews. Unfortunately, it is not possible to do this kind of review without giving away much of the episode and I do apologise for that.)

 As the son is telling his story and talking about how the young man was his best friend, the audience shares the "terrible" secret with Foyle that his son's friend was homosexual and actually fancied Foyle's son. Thus, Foyle (and we) bear any burden that might be associated with knowing that secret and so help to preserve Foyle's son's innocence. Emotional implications for how we should feel: admiration for Foyle, who accepted the young man for what he was while protecting his "secret."

 The episode ends with Foyle and his son embracing, the son again saying what a great guy his friend was and Foyle making a somewhat muffled comment like, "One of the best." Emotional implications for how the audience should feel: reinforced sympathy and admiration for him and all such young men. Congratulations! Your social engineering is now complete.

 To summarise, I know there will be those who think I have made too much of the "politics" of Mr. Horowitz's art and others who will say, even if it is true, they are there simply to be entertained. It is hard to reject an entertaining and well-done series, however, that is just what should be done to Mr. Horowitz and others who try to socially engineer us, as we unsuspectingly sit down to an hour or two's "entertainment." Film can be a controlling medium and to those like Mr. Horowitz, who would use it in that way, just say, "No, thank you," to that nose ring he is offering, even it is on bended knee.

 We have heard much of the culture war that is emerging in North America so I encourage you to watch this episode to discover, in a small way, just what that means. Unfortunately, reliable entertainment-as-(mostly)entertainment will not return until that culture war has played itself out.