I was a little late coming to this film -- 27 years late, having never seen it until 2004. For anyone else contemplating that event, it's not a good thing. This movie does not compete well with modern flicks. It was made on the extreme cheap, has no stars and only one recognizable actress, is not all that interesting a story, and ends abruptly in freeze frame during a high energy action sequence.

The story involves a family traveling through the desert that goes off the main road, smashes into some scrub brush and breaks and axle, the men depart to find civilization and run into  weirdos in bad makeup that happen to be cannibals and...watch it to see the rest.

According to the lengthy notes inside the two-disk package (one disk of extra talky stuff and trailers) this was one of the "reality" horror films of the 1970s that tried to convince viewers the horror was actually happening to a real family. This is in opposition to the historic role of horror -- to show something that could never actually happen, such as the worm from another planet that inhabits people's bodies in "The Hidden".

It succeeded quite well in that way in 1977 and developed a cult following that led me to watch it nearly three decades after its release.

I thought there were a number of exciting moments in this movie and relatively little gore. The movie broke some rules in animal and child scenes, another element that made it a cult favorite when Disco was king. It's no movie for children in this regard and probably too intense for people that are easily offended.

The notes also say the genre projected by this movie is showing a return in the 2003 film "Wrong Turn", a movie about a bunch of college kids on spring break that turn off the main road, their car breaks down, they run into weirdos with bad makeup that are cannibals and...you get the idea.

I love horror films and have loved them since I was a kid old enough to stay up late on weekends and watch movies on the channels we could get by turning the Ten-A-Rotor antenna. But this movie had hardly any effect on me other than a few points of interest. I'm glad I finally saw it, however, since I've been putting that off all my adult life. Now, at least, I can say I saw it.