Remember that movie The New Guy? Of course you probably don't because that movie was terrible, but if you do this Spider-Man movie for some reason (I don't know why) reminds me of The New Guy. I've seen just about every superhero comic book movie there is. Hulk, Incredible Hulk, Fantastic 4, Fantastic 4 part 2, Catwoman, Elektra, Ghost Rider and Ghost Rider 2, none of those are as bad as this movie, not even Ghost Rider 2. This movie is horrible and pointless. I'm not some huge Spider-Man, comic book fanatic but I know a bad movie when I see it and this is bad. At the beginning we basically get a look at Peter Parker's life. His parents mysteriously disappear in the beginning leaving him to live with his Aunt and Uncle. Then shoot to him in High School. He's getting picked on by the school jock and even gets beat up by him for trying to stick up for a kid he was bullying. The movie spends about 30 pointless minutes just on Peter, then it feels like they rush in the orgin story from the 1st Spider-Man movie. The movie is just so dull and boring and some things where just so stupid to me I wanted to walk out, like when Peter discovers his powers and goes into a empty warehouse and starts swinging on chains (before he has his web shooters) was just stupid. His uncles death, it never felt like him and the uncle were ever really close to begin with, but how the uncle dies in this one is just terrible. Why he felt the need to fight with this guy over the gun was just crazy. The crane scene, he's supposed to be Spider-Man yet he needs help from cranes to get to a building, really? The kid in the burning car, the basketball scene, how he kept taking off his mask, I don't understand these Marvel movies. Why are they so obsessed with making their superheros go mask-less towards the end of their movies. I know the original Spider-Man movies were not perfect but this reboot was not needed. This movie was so bad that they could have just done Spider-Man 4. I didn't like Tobey Maguire as Spider-Man but damn I'd rather have him over this guy. This movie is more of a love story, Spider-Man is barely in it and when he is it all feels rushed. The lizard is boring. Everything about this movie is just so dull and boring and I found myself sleep at the end. I know others enjoyed it and that's cool but this movie just wasn't for me at all.