I've waited a week to write this review.  I thought that an interval might provide me with a missed insight.  I don't like giving one star reviews.  Unfortunately, one star is all that this weak melodrama deserves.

The point of the series (assuming the very best) is to provide the audience with a view of the sociological elements in the Balkans (specifically Romania) and the Levant (mostly Egypt) just prior to and during World War II.  To keep the series centered and provide a thread of interest, there is the precarious romance of the newly wed Guy and Harriet Pringle.

The single ongoing source of tension for the Pringles is Guy's (as played by Kenneth Branaugh) relentless interest in teaching English and producing plays versus Harriet's (Emma Thompson) desire to understand the culture and occasionally be of some use to the people in whose lives she is immersed as well as to have a husband less emotionally distant.

Swirling around all this are various characters whose main role is to represent different attitudes and positions of the times, caricatures for the most part, but occasionally interesting.

Okay, I've tried to make this as interesting as possible.

It doesn't work.  The romantic tensions of the Pringles are one dimensional and boring.  Over the course of an hour, perhaps even 90 minutes, the preposterous story might be sufficient.  But dragged out over the 8 years (plus or minus) of this seven hours series, it becomes as flat as week-old champagne.

Branaugh is as his most dispassionate.  Supposedly this is the start of his shiny career, but the passion with which he infuses his later roles is virtually absent here.  A character so indifferent to the needs of his wife must be shown to have some other driving need to keep us interested.  Both characters must equally attract the sympathies of the viewer.  Here, Branaugh fails to accomplish this.  We seldom (never?) find ourselves rooting for his character.  Often, we just wish that Thompson in her role would just have one of the numerous affairs available to her.  And leave this uncaring jerk and get on with her life.

And speaking of affairs, each of her potential affairs, at the penultimate moment of having one (but never closer - that won't do), is thwarted by an act of fate, a coincidence so bold and unlikely as to be laughable.  All the tension and potential emotional distress is erased in the absurdity of these authored contrivances.

As a history lesson, the presentation is actually weakened by the melodrama entwined in the series.  The tragedy of Romania, the desperate decisions of politicians knowing there is little to do, the confusion of a populace divided among themselves as to the value of fascism, the attraction of socialism, the possibility of democracy -- all this is glossed over.  The position of Egypt with its bitter history with the British and its seduction by the Nazis -- this too becomes nothing more than one-liners and stereotypes.

I have read that the books on which the series are based are excellent.  I am not commenting on them; I have not read them.

It is the TV series that has failed, failed miserable.  I think only those who have the books would enjoy the series, because they would bring to their viewing an expansion of the story based on what they have read, and thus get more out of it.  As a standalone, the series has nothing to offer.