I am a big fan of Shiva Rea's yoga videos and since I am also a bellydancer, I thought I would try her Yoga Trance Dance DVD.  The first time I tried it, I let go of my inhibitions and actually reached a trance-like ecstatic state.  A second time I did it when I was very stressed out, and I was not able to let go.  So experiences may vary.

The practices usually begin with a prana yoga sequence.  I loved the snakey movements of the Water Salutation.  In fact, my dance troupe may use the "shoulder rolls into cobra" as part of our upcoming performance!  Even the prana yoga segments are very dance like.  The kriyas are designed to warm up the body with a repetitive movement and get oneself into a trance-like state.  Finaly, there are some improvisational dance segments.  It works best if you listen to her speaking and the music, but do not look at the television.  It will only limit you if you feel you must move as the dancers on the screen are moving.  Instead, be inspired by the imagery she speaks of, like playing drums that are all over the room, and let yourself loose.  This is definitely something that's fun to do in your own home. That said, I would LOVE to go to a live Shiva Rea class on the beach.

The music on this DVD is awesome.  I would listen to this stuff even if I wasn't working out.  It's mostly a world-beat, but it's very cool.  The DVD is also very beautiful, mostly filmed on a beach. Even the segments between sections are lovely, evoking Indian dance and temples.  Like all Shiva Rea videos, the aestetic value is very high.

Like all Shiva Rea's DVDs, the DVD features several pre-set practices combining trance dance, prana yoga, kriyas and shavasana, or you can create your own practices using the Yoga Matrix.  Usually I will try all the practices, and then start making my own once I understand the proper orderng.  She always includes a pre-set practice for evenings, since most of the practices are energetic and will wake you up.  There is also a set that is all prana yoga.