In ordering a bunch of different versions of Phantom of the Opera, I came across one labeled very differently from any of the ones I'd encountered before. This DVD is labeled with Nelson Eddy as the actor and 1913 as the date in which it was made. Assuming the seller was simply confused, I decided to get it anyway in the hopes it would be something completely new and different to help me with the project I was working on.

Before I even open the package, I can tell that this DVD's packaging ALONE is so bootleg that it's both hilarious and depressing. There wasn't enough love to even make it look halfway decent. The whole cover is obviously a low-quality printout on regular-grade paper, and it's not even cut evenly to fit the case correctly. The front cover is obviously badly manipulated in photoshop (or possibly even Microsoft paint, it's that bad), and the back cover tells me that this is copyright of "A2ZCDS.com", along with what I can only call a ballsy declaration of Federal copyright law forbidding unauthorized reproduction. The blurb on the back is full of unnecessary question marks and an outrageous font, unsuitable for a serious DVD.

Upon opening the case, I find no filler notes or even a scene listing. The case is empty with the exception of one lonely and depressingly bad looking DVD. The graphic is badly centered on the disk, everything is pink, and the entire print job is streaky. I'm dubious to put this disk in my DVD player because I doubt whether it will even work, so I try it in my computer. The title menu loads, and it's shivering and shaking like a chihuahua with pneumonia. It gives me the following options: Play Movie, Scenes, Other Titles, and Introduction.

I decide to check out the extra features first. Both "Other Titles" and "Introduction" are adds for this "A2ZCDS" company, boasting how they have lots of "Timeless Classics", and they begin naming off actors and titles from the early movie days. I try watching the movie to find, to my amusement, that is in fact the Lon Chaney 1925 silent film version, which in no way lives up to the original description telling me that this was Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster in 1913. The film quality is even more revolting than it usually is for this 1925 film, as it is pixelated and the screen continues to jiggle as if that aforementioned sick chihuahua were now having a seizure. I didn't bother to watch all the way through the film.

In summery: Bad, bad bootleg that shamelessly sells it's company like it's something awesome. It would be funny if I hadn't actually paid for it. Don't buy this.