I admire this film for its atmospheric evocation of Victorian London, but there have always been elements in the adaptation that have struck a discordant note. First, as excellent as Sim is as Scrooge, he strikes me as too hale and hearty for Dickens' creation of frozen old features, shriveled cheek, stiffened gait, and pointed nose. Even so, the performance is a classic. For that matter, Mr. and Mrs. Cratchit don't appear to have suffered much at the table from their "15 bob" weekly salary.

I've loved the story ever since it was read, en famille, as part of the Christmas rituals of my childhood. I have always been puzzled why the screen writer (or the producer) decided to insert the novelty of Scrooge's mother having died at his birth as the reason for his being sent away to school. The novella only tells us that he is neglected. Furthermore, Dickens describes the sister Fan as "much younger" than Ebenezer. I suppose this could be explained by her being a half sister, but Ebenezer contradicts that notion that their "dear Mama" must have looked much like Fan at the time of her death. The substitution of Alice for Belle as Scrooge's fiancee does little enough harm. Omitting the novella's scene of Belle/Alice's domestic happiness on the Christmas Eve of Marley's death, in favor of Alice's 'Christmas present' nursing in a bedlam-like hospital, fails to drive home the point of the happiness Scrooge threw away years before. Scrooge's emotions at seeing Belle's daughter and his realization that "such another creature, quite as graceful and full of promise, might have called him father, and been a springtime in the haggard winter of his life" is a key element in his emotional reclamation.

The screenwriter tends to beat us over the head concerning Scrooge's sharp business practices. The early scene between Scrooge and the debtor Wilkins has no parallel in the novella. The scene between the young Scrooge and Marley as clerks is not Dickens, nor is the board meeting where the two partners rescue the Amalgamated Mercantile from the embezzlement of a fellow director by buying the company. The  scene between the dying Marley and Scrooge, where the former has a deathbed conversion regarding his life, is similarly an invention of the screenwriter.

Kathleen Harrison's popular (at the time) cockney schtick probably accounts for the expansion of Mrs. Dilber's role from her only appearance in the novella's rag and bone shop, where she vends Scrooge's stolen bed curtains, to the messenger of Marley's approaching demise and witness of Scrooge's regeneration after the supernatural visits. Tiny Tim is given clairvoyant powers in an invented scene in which he declares the anonymous turkey a gift from Scrooge.

Scrooge's penitent Christmas Day encounter with the two gentlemen collecting for charity, whom he essentially threw out of his office on Christmas Eve, is omitted. The omission damages the overall conclusion. Scrooge is newly charitable toward his employee, Cratchit. He has returned to the family fold in reconciling with his nephew, Fred. The deleted scene shows us his intent to make amends to his fellow man as a whole.

As others have noted, the blu-ray disc is sharper in image than the standard DVD but shows scratches, occlusions, and audio drop outs that don't disfigure the older version.

My grousing about the screenplay aside, I do think this is a classic. However, to get the full measure of Dickens' humanity, generosity, and skill as a story teller in a concentrated timespan, you have to read his novella.