This is a moving and beautifully made film which deals with crucial issues for the modern church. Set in a gritty inner city suburb in Liverpool, the film tells the story of Father Greg [Linus Roach]: newly ordained, confident and well intentioned. He is appointed to assist the older Fr Michael - a priest with a strong sense of social justice and a poor reputation with the local bishop. The initial scenes of the film focus on Greg's deep sense of vocation and his clumsy efforts to minister to the local working class people. He's a good man - if not a very wise priest. He is critical of Micheal's unorthodox faith and his sexual relationship with the woman who is the housekeeper at the presbytery.

The moral focus of the film changes when Greg learns of the sexual abuse of a teenaged member of his congregation. His information is privileged by confidentiality and he struggles to make sense of the conflicting demands on him as a priest and pastor. In the middle of all this, we learn that Greg is gay. He takes off his collar and picks up a man in a bar [Graham, played by Robert Carlyle]. What begins as a casual encounter becomes a relationship with terrible consequences. The most awful moment of the film is not the painful outing of Greg but the scene in the church when Greg refuses communion to Graham when he turns up in the congregation one Sunday morning. I doubt that the "offence" that lands Greg in court has any legal basis anymore. The conclusion of the film is deeply moving and gives the viewer much to think about.

There are no heroes in this film - although one comes to love Michael and to feel deeply for Greg and for Graham.  There are plenty of villains, however, with the highly political  bishop the greatest offender. It's not a film about gay priests, however, nor about corrupt clergy - although there are plenty of them in the film.  It's a film about confronting demons: hypocrisy, shame and guilt. In the end, the message is positive and life affirming. Here is a film that challenges and confronts and deals with big issues in an accessible and sympathetic way.