Sir Anthony I love you again! After "LAmbs" I had enough of you, your mannerism was as borin as Gene Hakman's mannerism after "Unforgiven". But now Hopkins improved what seemed to be unimprovable!!
Did anybody recognize gary Oldman before cast was shown?? I would have bet it was Bruce Dern; he is now so ugly and old, that he would not have needed make up. Oldman's "performance" is as senseless as deVitto's "acting" in penguin costume in "Batman"... speaking of Batman, both Hannibal and Mason resemble Riddler a little bit, and a film is marred by these flaws as well as by clumsy ending - Hannibal's Hudini-like escape. But because this is one of two best films in 2001 (Amelie is the first), I give 5 stars...
Mamet wrote again a good script, and he followed the rules of the genre, and now we have the real thriller... He also "transcribed" the profound Harris' book to the motion pictures as much he could, within the limits of A-produstion, and the new spirit of time 1990s...
Julianne Moore was O.K., but she could have ben replaced by Nicole Kidman and Lindsey Frost.
Giancarlo Giannini was unbelievable good!
Francesca Neri showed her legs and feet (unlike Moore - I wonder why??), and no Italian  beautiful woman can do any harm to a pictures...
Ray Liotta has just repeated himself from J. Demmie's "Something Wild" from mid1980s; he wasn't insipred at all.
Zimmer's music enchanting.
I would pint to clever parrallesm between Starlig and Kommendatore Pazzi: she washes baby covered with blood, while he washes his hands in Florence's fountain, after hee took a bracelet from dying pickpocket; thanks to Mamet this parallelism can be developed further througout the whole film. Hannibal had to become a little bit "gayish" in the harmony with new spirit of time, Clarise had to become at least spiritual aristocrat by the means of tumbler-pigeon metaphor, and TWO IDEAS WITH ONE BIRDS, two birds with one stone, mamet showed idea from the book - genetical predilections an redemption in the connection with great research on Italian art history and biblical motiffs...
Foster-type of outsiders had no chance.
Great film, greta book.