This is a extremely elegant and stylish movie - the kind of spectacle that you just don't see any more, in a certain type of Technicolour that just isn't duplicated these days. Extremely witty and classic songs, a swish  script, and gorgeous costumes. Admittedly, it is eye candy, but what eye  candy! George Cukor directs it with true aplomb, turning  "Titanic-era" London into a stylised and colourful mel&eacute;e,  bringing out the humour and joyfulness of the screenplay, and Cecil  Beaton's extravagant and yet, somehow, chic costumes and sets form a  perfect setting for the actors - and the actors themselves are superb. Rex  Harrison is totally believable as Henry Higgins, mixing crustiness with a  very dry humour, whereas Audrey Hepburn looks just right as Eliza  Doolittle. One is forced to ponder what Julie Andrews would have done in  the role, following her playing the part on stage, but I just can't see  Eliza played by anyone other than Audrey Hepburn, who is, quite simply,  delicious. From the mawkish, ramshackle flower-girl, to the rebellious  pupil, to the cool and composed "lady" of the title, she is  perfectly credible, whether throwing a Cockney temperament, or floating  through the conservatory, calmly sending Professor Higgins about his  business. I am told her Cockney accent is awful, but being deaf, I cannot  comment; no more than I can comment upon the fact that apparently her  recording of "Oh Wouldn't It Be Luverly" has been reinstated upon  the soundtrack. The appeal for this film lies in its spectacle - I saw it  at the cinema once, in an arthouse revival, and it was utterly amazing -  and in the speech therapy storyline, which has a lot of relevance to me.  "My Fair Lady" is simply... a cinematic glory of a particular  type that would be impossible to duplicate ever again. The Ascot scene is  worth the money alone, a refreshing, gliding harmony of black and white,  choreographed and stylised escapism, totally summing up the essence of a  musical.
Ah, it's lu-ver-ly - Lu-ver-ly - Lovely!