The movie "The Breakfast Club", directed by John Hughes, is arguably one of the best movies of all time. It is a unique film that takes the different "typical" personalities of teenagers in high school and brings them together for Saturday detention. The different characters include Andrew Clark, the jock; Claire Standish, the most popular girl in school; Brian Johnson, the geek; John Bender, the rebel; and Allison Reynolds, the outcast. With all of them being completely different, they don't agree on much or have much in common. But when you leave a group of people in a room alone from seven in the morning until four in the afternoon, they will eventually talk and discover new things about themselves. The beginning of the movie is mainly the group arguing, until they come to a point where they find things in common. They realize they don't get along with their parents, and they undergo much pressure from their friends.
Although I am a big fan of this movie, some things bothered me. In the end of the movie, the jock ends up with the outcast and the rebel ends up with the popular girl, but where does that leave Brian? There are three guys and two girls so one of them will end up alone, but I think it would have been better if Brian ended up with someone because he is the "geek" and it is stereotypical that he wouldn't end up with a girl. Another thing that upset me was when they agreed that Monday morning wouldn't be any different than usual. They spend nine hours together bonding, but will pretend they don't know each other at school? It contradicts the point of the movie in my opinion.
I think the best part is when Vernon, the cruel teacher in charge of detention, makes them write an essay describing who they are. After the entire group has been through, they decided to write one essay for them all. The essay is about how they are not who society thinks them to be, which is a great moral in the movie. Again, I think "The Breakfast Club" is a fantastic movie and people will really enjoy it.