Having just seen the Kennedy Center's production of Sweeney and having all the other productions that have been captured on CD, DVD or VHS, You might say that I am a bit of a fanatic on Sweeney.  This production is second only to the Brian Stokes Mitchell  Sweeney at the Kennedy Center. I certainly hope that the Kennedy Center has the foresight to either do a cast CD or DVD of this production so more folk can experience it.  
Its billed as a concert but it really captures a full production feeling thru its imaginative staging.  The Orchestrations are lush and keep the feel from smaller stage adaptations.  George Hearn is a superb Sweeney.  In fact he is very clost to Brain Stokes Mitchell as my favorite Sweeney.  His sweeney is troubled, has been wronged yet can be a homebody in By the Sea.  Stokes Mitchell's Sweeney is a twisted soul from the outset, there is no humanity there at all but a total possession.  You can see the man Sweeney would have been in Hearn's performance while Stokes Mitchell's performance suggests that Todd's original obsession with his wife must have had a creepy side to it too.  Patty Lupone has some cracking and dryness to her voice and also has a little trouble keeping her accents straight, but she has her own take on Mrs. Lovett.  Again, Christine Baranski is my favorite but I would put this Patty Lupons performance far above her performance in the NY Phil version or Angela Lansbury's ont he original cast CD.  
Where this Sweeney shines is in the supporting parts.  Davis Gaines is superb as Anthony and especially Timothy Nolen excels as Judge Turpin.  Nolen captures the creepy character perfectly and his voice is wonderful.  Neil Patrick Harris is fine as Toby though Mark Price outdid him at the Kennedy Center.  
The best part of the San Francisco performance is the staging.  The orchestra is scattered on the stage.  The singers move around and thru them and have a few props given to them by Kabuki-like prop masters.  This staging blurs the line between a full production and a concert performance.  The only things that were not in use in this perfomance prop wise was the tables and chairs and set of Mrs. L's pie shop.  Otherwise every scene was well defined.  In my mind, this was a full production of the piece.  
Last, the sound quality is superb for a live performance with room shaking bass and crisp brass.  All in all a superb DVD!