Yes, I cried when I heard that Tennant was giving up the role as the Doctor. Hard. I was in love with David and his ridiculous hair and manga eyes and saying "Well..." and "I'm sorry...I'm so sorry..." and "Allons y" every ten seconds. I would also miss Russell with his epic endings and extraordinary plot twists. Then I saw the new actor for the Fifth Series and was immediately outraged (Why was he so young, and where the HELL were his eyebrows?). I wanted Ten back.

Someone told me that Steven Moffat would be taking over. At first, I was like, who the HELL is Steven Moffat? Wait...the guy who invented the Vastu Narada, Weeping Angels, and Captain Jack Harkness? There was hope for this series.

How long did it take me to admit that this was the best season of Doctor Who ever? One episode.

I immediately felt guilty about degrading Matt. I was totally in love with the eleventh Doctor, that "madman with a box". His witty comebacks (penned by the excellent Steven Moffat) and wiggly fingers and bow tie had me sold. Even the new TARDIS is spectacular. Don't even get me started on the companions. Amy Pond (a spectacular Karen Gillan) and Rory Williams (slapstick Arthur Darvill) only add to the awesomeness of the Doctor while retaining their own grit and charisma.

Overall the season was wonderful, going off a fairytale theme as the Doctor, Amy (both young and old), and later Rory try to figure out the enigmatic cracks in time, the mythical Pandorica, the merely-whispered-of Silence, and who exactly River Song (an elusive Alex Kingston) really is, from Churchill to Van Gogh, Angels to Vampires, Star Whales to Dream Lords. The one reservation I would have is with the Silurian double episode (The Hungry Earth and Cold Blood). They seemed out of form with the rest of the episodes, more CSI than fairytale. I did enjoy the episodes though, I think that I would just have rather seen them with Tennant--they seemed more his style.

Moffat wrote five excellent episodes in the season, as was expected, but special note must be made to Amy's Choice (penned by Simon Nye) and Vincent and the Doctor (penned by Richard Curtis).

Go out and watch it, it won't disappoint.