THE PROLOGUE

------------

To fully appreciate a review I think it's important to know a little about the reviewer. This particular reviewer is about 25, male and likes when his TV-screen shows him something a little more intelligent. I've never really liked the mainstream shows like "Friends" and "Desperate housewives" even though I (still) watch "Lost" and "Prison break". My favorite shows are "Battlestar Galactica", "Heroes", "Wonderfalls", "The L-word" and off course "Dead like me". I should probably also mention that I'm Swedish so my English might not be the best at times.

This review is for both seasons of the show, since what I will write here also holds for the first season (this is actually a copy of my first season review, lazy me).

THE STORYLINE

-------------

"Dead like me" is centered around a girl named Georgia "George" Lass, an eighteen year old with with doubts about the meaning of her life. She can't communicate with her mother, her father has an affair with one of his students and her little sister might as well be invisible, for all she cares. This could be the plot of a another mainstream teenage drama series, but instead George is hit by space debris and dies.

Instead of passing on or anything like that she finds herself having to work for the undead as a grim reaper, taking peoples souls before they die, saving them the unpleasantness of the actual death and helping them "pass on". Despite their good deed to society reapers don't get paid "through proper channels" and they still have to make a living, either by a day job or petty larceny what ever means they can find. They do get a new appearance though so they won't attract the attention of the people they knew when they were alive.

We get to follow George as she struggle to make a new life for herself, dealing with her new job, her day job, her old family and finding the meaning and purpose in (un)life she never found when she was alive.

THE REVIEW

----------

I could probably say a million things about this show but I will try to focus on the most important aspects.

First of all, it must be said that "Dead like me" is foremost a humor series, with a dark and a little twisted humor. But the show also deals with very serious questions like life and death, fate and circumstance, friends and family and the meaning and purpose of life. This mix of comedy and drama would normally scare me of, since shows like that have a habit of being over dramatic. Especially when dealing with these kind of "life and death" issues. I'm thinking about shows like Ally Mcbeal which I found quite funny to begin with but that soon tried a little too hard to get it's point across. Dead like me never has this problem, partly because the humor and drama scenes are well separated, and partly because all the deaths in the show are really silly and unlikely. This un-dramatizes it all. It also helps that the makers of the show doesn't try to shove some neatly packed, morally correct answer to all those life and death questions down your throat. In fact they don't try to answer any questions at all, they just seem to ask the questions in a different way. Also, the show never gets religious in any way. It is never assumed that God and Jesus Christ is waiting on the other side. Heaven and hell are mentioned a few times but most of the worlds religions include the concept of a heaven and a hell so that doesn't bother me in any way.

The actors in the show are really great. Normally you see a show with a couple of actors managing to bring their characters to life. In "Dead like me" all characters are marvelously interesting. Sometimes it's even a little bit disturbing that so many of them die in the show because you would like to know more about them. But you can rest assure that the you will be able to at least get to know the small group of reapers that George is part of; Betty, Roxy, Mason, Daisy and their leader Rube. The humorous nature of the show off course means that all the characters are quite stereotypical and strange but in many ways they are also very normal. They have personalities just like any normal person and their sometimes strange behavior is completely understandable given the fact that they have been dead for quite some time.

The dialog and setting (is that the right word) of the whole show is also absolutely spot on. There are many conversations that you really remember long after you've seen the show, and most of them are really funny. There is a particular dialog between George and Mason about frogs that I find very amusing, watch out for that one.

If I'm to complain about anything at all about this show it has to be that they sometimes rely a bit too much on computer animations. I really can't see why they couldn't use real props in some of the scenes and some of the animations are a bit sloppy. But this is definitely not of major concern and it definitely not something that is going to make me lower the five star rating of this show.

So if you like a strange and different show  with a lot of humor and brains then you should really see "Dead like me", because this is probably the best show I have ever seen so far in my life. Or as George would probably have but it:

"This show is so good it would probably kill me... again"