When one talks about the Civil Rights Movement, many would reference Martin Luther King and the fight for Black Americans' civil rights.  In Gandhi, we are given a historical visual of India's Civil Right Movement lead by Mohanda Gandhi against the British rule of India.  There are a lot of similarities between the Martin Luther and Gandhi fights for Civil Rights.  The opening scene is the assassination of Ghandi in 1948.  You are then taken to the beginning, when young Gandhi is questioned why he is seating in first class compartment on the train. Evening after showing his ticket and explaining he is a London educated lawyer, he is thrown from the train in South Africa.  It is here he began his non-violent protest against the South African government.  Even though he experienced firsthand the bias laws, beatings and jail, he persevered.  This perseverance leads unwanted attention for the South African government, and cause them to give into his demands.

After returning to India and seeing the poverty and the injustices that Indians were subjected to under British rule, he is sought out to lead a non-violent fight for Indians in his beloved India.  This time it was more challenging because of the British refusal and the massive amount of people he had to reach and convince to be non-violent in their actions.  Gandhi, was about to stop his fight when over 1,000 men, women and children were massacre at a meeting calling for non-violence.  Violent acts of retaliation broke out and Gandhi fast until peace was restored.

This movie is a great educational tool it shows how imperialism of another cultural ruling another; it speaks to the Hindu religion and how it respects others religion.  The movie shows how Islam and Hinduism co-existed.  There is the scene where Gandhi is fasting and a Hindu man demands him to eat, he admits to killing a Muslim child because they killed his and he was going to hell.  Gandhi tells him he change that by finding a Muslim child who parents are dead and raise him as his son and raise him as Muslim. Throughout the movie the Hindu belief of turning away from worldly possessions and passions, and turning to mediation and prayer to achieve the ultimate goal a union with the Absolute Reality is shown.  This movie also answers why there is conflict between Pakistan and India.