Well after reading several reviews from people who had great intentions and obviously are Dune fans, I have to tell you ... on my copy of this movie which I bought last month(extended version) it also has the original movie on one side of the double sided disk... Boy did I get lucky!!... David Lynch was right not to put his name to the extended version...that being said I am glad I bought this dvd ... it still has great value with the original movie on it... One thing the original has is the flavor if you will of the book... having read the book first there is a mystic quality ... its like reading the bible....there is this general acceptance of events in a mystical fashion that makes the original movie true to the book...if you didn't read the book you may be missing that quality and the extended version might really work for you.
Lord of the Rings was the same way.. there was plenty missing from the book content of the series but Jackson was true to the flavor .. the mystic quality of the books.  We saw the same thing with the movie Wing Commander... Chris Roberts was true to the original writing for the PC games, yet, if you had never played the games you might have looked at the movie from a much different perspective.  The original Dune Movie has this Mystic quality .... the material is doled before you to give you these feelings and the feelings guide you through the story.  This Story is a Messianic journey, a mystical tale, the book reflects that tone and so does the original movie.  Knowing that,had I made the original movie, I certainly would not have put my name on the extended version, however, there are plenty of fans of the original movie that have never read the book!  David Lynch was right!?!  I think it is a matter of perspective.. but, I'm sure glad they put the theatrical edition on the flip side of the disk.. whew!! I gave this 4 stars...I also still play the PC games.. Dune 2(Dos) and Dune 2000 and I loved the book series.<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0007PAMR4">Dune (Extended Edition)</a>