Going into this movie having seen the original 1978 film of the same name, I knew that with Tobe Hooper on board there was no possible way that it could be worse than the original. The 1978 film boasts that it was banned since 1982 but I don't understand why. The film itself crams all of the kills within the first 20 minutes. While they are decent, they are nothing to be banned for. But times have changed. So did the remake of "The Toolbox Murders" achieve "better than the original" status. Definitely. There are few similarities to the original film here. The killers attire is pretty much one in the same. Very simple ski mask and all black clothing. The killing methods are toolbox related and all of the tools used in the original are back...and then some. But the similarities stop there. The films are totally different from here on.

The cast was good though the only one I really recognized was Sherri Moon (House of 1000 Corpses). While here roll is very brief it was great to see her in another film. The lead character Nell, played by Angela Bettis (The Carrie Remake) was played very well. She was very realistic in the roll but was annoying. She's just the kind of person who is hard to like. Nell and her husband Steven have moved to Hollywood where Nell is an out of work teacher and Steven is a doctor/med student. The duo move into an old building called the Lusman building. The Building is a dark, run down building going through renovations. It is made evident that the building has a past that goes deeper than anyone could ever imagine. The Lusman building is loaded with all sorts of wacky over the top characters that we get to meet and learn about early on from the weird building manager, Ned the creepy repairman, Julie the exercise obsessed former fat chick, Saffron the freaky hippie chick, a family with a perverted teenage son, and Charles, who having lived in the building since 1947 pretty much has things figured out around there. Most of the people living in the building are aspiring actors being as though the film is set in Hollywood. So basically what starts going down is simple. A killer starts knocking off people one after the other using various power tools. When done correctly...it doesn't get much better than that!

The film seems that it might have slightly suffered from a rushed script but it definitely is a film, that thanks to the kills, delivers. Toolbox Murders definitely has that old school feel of the 70's and 80's slasher flicks and that is something to be appreciated. While sometimes a little over the top there isn't as much comic relief as in some slashers which is nice as the film doesn't make fun of itself often. We get to see all sorts of tools used as murder weapons from hammers, nail guns, drills, saw and more! The bigger difference in the kills in this movie and the original is the pacing. They aren't crammed in a short time span. Plus, they are brutal. Believe me. They are gory and IN YOUR FACE which was great to see.

The ending moments really shine and you don't have to be a hardcore TCM fan to be able to see Tobe Hooper written all over this one. The killer even adopts some slight Leatherface mannerisms toward the end. The explanations at the end might make you say "Huh?" but it is still interesting and unique. While the final scenes seem abrupt and out of nowhere it is definitely old school horror goodness.

The overall presentation of the film is excellent. The camera work is slightly shaky and a throwback to that of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The score is simple and effective. Great stuff.

While some say that remakes never equal the original blue print, "Toolbox Murders" is definitely an exception. I don't know if it should even be called a remake but if you refer to it in that manner, it definitely needs to be placed near the top of the remake ranks.

FINAL ANALYSIS: This film was finished in 2003 and the release has been longe delayed for whatever reasons. It's finally here and it's too bad that it had to skip theatres. But that could have been a blessing in all honesty. A theatrical run could have resulted in the movie company trimming it down to get a PG 13 rating and that would have ruined a brutal film like this. So how will you know if you will like this film if you don't know from the review already? If you like old school horror/slasher films....if you are a person who doesn't expect every movie to be an academy award winning masterpiece...if you crave straight up in your face slasher goodness....Toolbox Murders is your film.

RATING: **** out of *****