(warning: spoilers) This film started off very well; the beautiful, carefree Italian environment and its beautiful carefree ex-pat inhabitants were suitably enticing, allowing us to understand their appeal to Ripley.  At the same time, the film gradually develops Ripley's darker side - his  instability, his at-once childish and devious behaviour in the company of  the golden couple (Dickie and Marge), and ultimately his amorality.
 One  of the most telling scenes in the film is when local girl Silvana,  impregnated and abandoned by playboy Dickie, is found to have drowned  herself. We see Dickie's less glamorous side: in the way that he treated  her, and in his genuine though short-lived remorse for it. Yet more  chilling is Ripley offering to cover up for him, wanting only to preserve  the life of Dickie Greenleaf without scandal - he is not bothered about  Dickie's reprehensible behaviour or its consequences - this is merely an  opportunity to gain favour with (and power over) Dickie.
And the film  deals pretty well with the souring of the characters' relationships with  one another, the homoerotic tension, and the harrowing depiction of  Dickie's brutal death. Indeed, it also shows well the spiralling  consequences of Ripley's actions - except it lets them spiral on for way,  way too long. Many of the plot machinations and new characters introduced  in the second half were unnecessary and only slackened the tension and the  interest - a sharper, more ambiguous ending shortly after Dickie's death  would have made this film excellent, not just very good.
 As for the  acting: at first I was sceptical of Matt Damon, but once again he proves  himself a talented actor. He gives an understated, edgy performance as the  unstable Ripley; especially in the intense boat scene; and he shows both  the chameleon-like and the homosexul aspects of Ripley very well. Jude Law  lights up the screen at any given point in the film - his physically  beautiful (can anyone find a flaw with this guy's looks! ) and ruthlessly  charming Dickie offsets Ripley perfectly. Gwyneth Paltrow is good, less  self-conscious than she sometimes seems to be, Cate Blanchett and Jack  Davenport are solid in their supporting roles even in the more implausible  last part of the film. Philip Seymour Hoffman stands out, suitable sneery  but shrewd as Freddie. The film itself is pretty well-made, but could have  done with intensive editing in the second half - however, the  cinematography cannot be faulted, with the beautiful Iralian setting  soaking up the screen time as well as the beautiful people in the cast.
  Overall, this could be a great, glossy yet disturbing thriller, but is a  little over-indulgent.