It was fairly easy to guess that this wasn't going to be the must-see that its trailer promised, but Underworld is at least a little more substantial than, oh, about 80% of the big summer blockbusters I've had the misfortune to sit through this year.  I'll give it that, anyway..
The main word that sprang to mind after seeing it was... well, 'odd'.  Odd that anyone would make the choices they made in editing, in casting, in scripting and plot, after all the obvious work that has gone into backstory for this particular fantasy world.  The trailer, surely one of the most enticing for a long time, remains a vision of what this film could have been - and I'm convinced this would have been pretty good, had a decent script editor and film editor been let near it before release.
What struck me somewhere near the end was the sheer *laziness* that went into the promo line quoted in every review: "Romeo and Juliet with vampires and werewolves".  Right. Has anyone quoting that line: a) have any knowledge of Shakespeare's plot in one of its hundred incarnations or b) actually watched Underworld?  The emotional heart of this film is fairly cold, distant, and pretty damn unromantic.  I have never seen anything so sold as having a major romantic element, and so absolutely shying away from the subject. Its not so much done badly so much as not done at all; I have never seen anything less like a grand romance in my life!!  Just a warning...  
Still, there's fun to be had in spotting the movies that director Len Wiseman liked in the past few years... As much as Matrix paid homage to Dark City stylistically, so Underworld sneaks in as many little Matrix tributes as it can reasonably manage (the modem-sound backing music, the old-fashioned phone ring, all those long black leather coats, a lobby-scene wannabe, yada yada yada).  Kinda cute, in a way... sadly, these are more like the original Matrix than the overblown Reloaded could manage, but that's another story altogether...
Like most of the lead characters, Kate Beckinsdale is pretty much wasted playing Selene,the kinda vamp Buffy could stake in her sleep.. never have vampires been so.. well, useless, as they  are here! Jumping off tall buildings gracefully and firing guns are pretty much all their talents, but the Lycans get to do all that and way, way more.  Bit of a shame, really.  Beckinsdale goes for an 'Angel without the wisecracks' performance, which just adds to the general gloom - the character really is weak - and irritatingly stupid on occasion.  Scott Speedman coasts through looking dazed and confused, while the actor playing Kraven manages to wreck every scene he's in - and that's quite a few - by being the only American vampire in a cast of Brits.  Thats all well and good, but his clenched teeth acting and strange, strange accent contrived to make me cringe whenever he showed up.  Near the end, he lapses into an odd Scottish accent (shades of the embarrassingly bad Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle at that point) which just serves to confuse more... weird.
Kudos to Bill Nighy, even if he does pretty much sleepwalk through the role of Viktor, and especial praise to Michael Sheen, who can console himself from getting dumped by the leading lady with the thought that he pretty much carried the movie.  Great actor, the only character with any depth, and a joy to watch.  Interesting...
All in all, it's a film thats been marketed better than its been put together, but the sheer amount of potential there drags it through.  It's damn good to look at most of the time (it may help if you turn your brain off during most of the plot exposition; it's less painful that way) and if immortals in leather coats and fabulous dresses with lots of guns are your idea of fun, you can't go far wrong here.  In my humble opinion, it's more watchable than most of the films I've sat through this year (Yes, that's you, Matrix Reloaded, Charlie's Angels 2, Tomb Raider 2, X-Men2 and the excruciating Daredevil).  It's a shame that it sacrifices an ending to what amounts to a plea for a sequel (and a sad little plea at that) but the SFX are impressive and there are flashes of brilliance throughout.  No, it doesn't live up to the trailer, but here's hoping they greenlight a sequel that actually learns from its mistakes...!