Rarely do I find a movie that I can watch twice, let alone in a week's time. But having seen it on the Independent Film Channel I subsequently bought a copy online and watched it again with the same delight as the first go around.
Vincent D'onofrio plays Sam, a man from the future (Dubuque, Iowa on the Atlantic Coast to be specific) who after some tragic events in the future has broken the time-space continuum and traveled back some 400 years to find his one true love Ruby, whose picture he found in a curio shop. After a "chance encounter" in a park in NYC where they strike up a conversation and Sam entertains her, he seeks to find where she lives to return a book that she has forgotten on the park bench. The love-shy Ruby, who has had her share of "losers" in the past, is aloof when he approaches her but all the same curious of who this strange man is. To skip giving away any of the plot-line and formation, they begin a romantic relationship. But as the eccentric time-traveller starts to display odd and suspicious physical and personality traits, the neurotic Ruby begins to think that he is playing her for a fool. She confides finally in a therapist and after many see-saw episodes between the couple she believes that she must leave him. To keep her love he slowly uncovers the truth about who he really is. From this the main thrust of the movie becomes encapsuled in a simple futuristic ideal: Cheeseman's Emotional Energy Theory, which holds that if you can concentrate enough emotional energy on a particular moment in time you can alter the past and create a new future. Thus Sam has come back to save Ruby and himself from their tragic lots in life.
The strange sci-fi aspect of this romantic comedy is what fuels it to excellence and keeps it from becoming the prototypical toothy-actor "loser" meets the Hollywood starlett "princess" which normally plagues the genre. D'onofrio, though sometimes an over-actor, is always believable and sincere in his performances unlike a Tom Cruise or Harrison Ford, who no matter what they do, we are cognizant of the fact that they are mega-stars playing a part. Sam is real and likeable and thus the storyline becomes engrossing and brilliantly devised. Marisa Tomei, who I have never really thought twice about, is equally supportive and performs well and to the extreme which obliterates anything hackneyed or cliched about the film. A must have movie.