Like many others I hadn't seen this movie in many years since it was first released in the theatres but had some fond remembrance of it.  On seeing it again I am  bowled over by its strengths, the fine acting, the direction and production and most of all the screenplay, by Chayefsky, the only writer to get 3 academy awards as the sole writer.

Emily is that extremely rare item, a movie which blends entertainment with discussion of serious issues of personal and social morality. At times it becomes almost a philosophical discussion.  I have read that Chayefsky liked to argue both sides of an issue and that tendency appears in this script. Of course there is no ultimate resolution of the issue of the moral issues of going to war.  But Chayefsky's main point is the social damage caused by glorifying wartime sacrifice.  The problem that Chayefsky raises is that in praising the conduct of those who stood up to obvious demons such as Hitler, a culture is created which makes it much easier to get into the next war which may be lest admirable.  Both Chayefsky and Hiller the director were in the military during the second world war and knew whereof they spoke.  This is no simple-minded diatribe against militarism but rather an insider's punch to the gut.

This movies was written during the Vietnam war and the World War 2 setting is  stand-in for that conflict just as the Korean War was a stand-in for Vietnam in MASH. But while MASH attacks the military culture it never really gets to the underlying moral issues of war and mostly plays for cheap but entertaining gags. The Vietnam conflict is long gone but we were nevertheless dragged into the similarly disasterous Iraq conflict, partly based on the very glorification of sacrfice and patriotism that Chaeyfsky attacks.  Garner's trumped-up war hero status in this movie has an eery parallel in the Pat Tillman story of our own times, by the manner in which a debacle was cynically blown up by military for its own end of glorifying the military.

President/General Eisenhower famously warned of the military-industrial complex warping the country.  Chayefsky warns how patriotic sentimentality causes a similar warping of values.

Sure there are some long speeches, but these are well-written, well acted and carry considerable impact.  In a great scene, Garner's character confronts Emily's mother about the glorification of war dead and her failure to admit that her husband and son are dead, he finally causes the mother to break down and acknowledge that her husband and son are truly gone.  The impact is devastating on the viewer.

That said the movie is always entertaining and carried along by the chemistry between Garner and Andrews.  Garner plays somewhat to type as the charming rascal, although here with a real edge and something important to say.  Andrews plays counter her usual squeaky clean image, here being a war widow involved in serial affairs with departing soldiers.

The movie is funny, has a tumultuous and touching love affair and debates major social and philosophiocal issues.  As I said, a rarity.