I purchased this box set based solely on the strength of the positive reviews here on Amazon. Well, I should also say, based on the fact that I read on Wikipedia about Alejandro Jodorowsky and the Panic Movement - which was sort of a hyper-extension of the Surrealist Movement. The entry for "The Panic Movement" states Jodorowsky once Held a "four-hour long performance known as Sacramental Melodrama which was staged in May 1965 at the Paris Festival of Free Expression. The "happening" starred Jodorowsky dressed in motorcyclist leather and featured him slitting the throats of two geese, taping two snakes to his chest and having himself stripped and whipped. Other scenes included a staged murder of a rabbi, a crucified chicken, a giant vagina giving birth to Jodorowsky, naked women covered in honey and the throwing of live turtles into the audience." Apparently, "The Panic Movement was a response to surrealism becoming petite bourgeoisie and to release destructive energies in search of peace and beauty". I'm a huge fan of Federico Fellini films and anything unique, beautiful, cerebral, different, amazing, or surreal. This is all those things.

Outstanding Box set (5-Discs) which includes not only three films, but a bonus disc with an early film by the director and several interviews with him as well. The set also includes two remastered cd versions of the soundtracks for the two most important films in the set. However, the below review is just for El Topo.

El Topo was really entertaining and definitely kept me wondering what was going to happen next. No matter how much of a cynic you are, at least some of these images are going to stick with you for a while. Not so much for the reasons that it's so profound of a story or the symbolism and mystic messages will change your life. Although these things could happen to some. It's that this movie is extremely creative and original in a lot of aspects. Just thinking to yourself "wow how the #@%@ did Jodorowsky find these people and how did he get them to do these things!" is worth it to me. There is a plot present in El Topo, which I won't explain to you because of the previous reviewers who've already done that for you. There is a lot of dead bodies, slaughtered animals, and a lot of blood. However, It's that 70's blood that is a little too much paint-like so you shouldn't be overly squeamish about it, well in my opinion at least. Plus it's relevant to the film and like Jodorowsky says in one of the interviews in this set.  You cannot have peace without violence nor beauty without ugliness and there is plenty of beautiful moments in this film.