If you're like me and like your action films smart, well written, well acted and with plenty of action; then this is the DVD for you. Chances are if you are thinking of buying this DVD right now you already know this is a great movie, but just in case you're not sure, let me tell you why this is one of those movies that definitely belongs in your collection. 
The acting, from Russell Crowe (The captain of the HMS Surprise) to Paul Bettany (The ships doctor), down to the most minor character is top notch, and leaves you believing that you are looking through a window in time rather than just watching a Hollywood movie. This film is a historical journey that knocks you back into 18th century naval warfare, and at times with a vengeance. If you happen to own a home theater system (and if you don't you should get one, they're reasonably priced now) you'll be amazed with the sound quality in this film. The action scenes are filled with roaring cannons blasting man and ship into smithereens, ferocious storms at sea where you can almost feel the wind and rain slashing at your face, and fierce pistol/sword fights that fill your senses with the smell of smoke and blood. Like I said at the beginning, if you like action, you've come to the right movie. But read on, it's not all just blood and guts.  
What writer/director Peter Weir really does quite masterfully however, is bring you down from all this chaos and conflict with quiet, human, and sometimes humorous scenes that give the viewer an insight into what life on a warship must have been really like in those times. For me, this peek into the world of Captain and Able Seaman alike, is what really sets this movie apart from the ordinary action film. The relationships are well developed and acted to the point where you actually care about the lives of the characters, even the minor ones. The conversations and interactions between the characters on the ship, are believable and interesting, drawing you deep into the story like the novels they are based on. It's this masterful blend of war and peace that makes this movie so commanding (;)). For more than just financial reasons, long ago I decided I was only going to buy the very best movies. The ones that could stand watching over and over again, the ones that could stand the test of time. This is one of those movies.