A book I read some 40 yrs ago 'how to write good', something like that. It strongly suggested that the principal character NOT be a writer. From then on, it seems all too many 'relationship tales' all have one. Midnight in Paris, obviously one. It's uncomfortable to watch. We pretty much know 'this isn't going to turn out well', and it sure doesn't. The redeeming qualityis that those of us thinking, ' "Hell, I can do better than this sorry relationship"...well, no you ain't. Pretty much NO body is likeable, no knights on dashing white steeds here, or damsels worth devoting your life to. Of course this makes the average 'chick lit' genre movie totally unrealistic. Okay...we hate each other; then we love each other, big problem solved, and happy ever after. When in truth, if we learned anything from this movie, they ain't no happy ever after. So that's the dilema then. Wouldn't we rather 'escape' from the "dealt a bad hand" relationship we are in? Or ..how to make it a good realtionship, even though the odds are against experiencing one
in our lifetime. How to MAKE it good, in spite of the 72 box car train load of trauma, and eccentric peculiarities we bring to each and every one of our relationships?
If you like the fairyland type romance movie, I recommend "OPA"...in Greece, ( in all the news lately ) half in Greek with english subtitles, and English, no subtitles...rather nice. We need happy endings, it seems. "Love and Other Drugs" is better than this one...love triumphing over all odds against it...while simultaneously revealing the gargantuan, slobbering greed  of the drug industry.
I think that is what is missing in this movie that is generating a pretty ho hum response. In spite of that, we do encourage more like this one, only better somehow. Probably most people reviewing movies like this deplore white knuckle endless torment, mind numbing , tortuous cruelties... hurtling cars bursting into fiery crashes. We'd much rather watch a movie like this mildly disturbing , lame one....any day.