This is the story of Leon(Jean Reno), the highly efficient contract killer who's known as a cleaner due to his ability to kill you without you ever knowing he's there.  He's cold blooded, but at the same time lovable due to his obvious innocence, seen as he affectionatly waters his plant and his love for milk.  He lives a loners life until he meets Matilda(Natalie Portman), who was soon to change his life.  Luckily for Matilda, she was running an errand for Leon while the corrupt villian and lead antagonist of the movie Normon Stansfield(Gary Oldman), and his group of thugs decide to wipe out her entire family, due to some drugs, which were cut by her father while he was supposed to be just holding them.  When Matilda returns, she finds that her family is dead and turns to Leon for help.

  When Matilda learns what Leon's trade is, she is intrigued, and convinces the reluctant Leon to teach her the ways of the cleaner.  As Leon trains Matilda, their relationship grows, and to the dismay of Leon, she develops a crush on him, while at the same time he develops a paternal love for her.  This is a great movie, from the action packed beginning, to the thrilling climax.
  I definately feel that the uncut DVD version is better than the original version.  It let's you see more deeply into the relationship between Leon and Matilda, and you get to see more of the "training" scenes, which show how Matilda develops from an unknowing child to a novice cleaner.
  I'd also like to say something to the prudes out there that feel the relationship between Leon and Matilda is perverted.  You see it as a sick man trying to take advantage of a young girl, but if you recall, it was Matilda who continually came on to Leon. Leon clearly tells her in one scene that a sexual relationship is not possible.  And even then, it should be clear to anyone that Leon loves Matilda in a way that a father would love his daughter.  I can clearly see this and I'm only 14.  Apparently, there are a lot of low IQ people out there.  The UNCUT, INTERNATIONAL version is the way to go if you want to see a more meaningful, touching movie.  I'm a very cold person at heart, and this is the only movie I've ever watched that made tears swell up in my eyes. It's the greatest movie I've ever seen.  It features a brilliant cast, and a touching, and very unique storyline.