They're reshowing this downtown in the West Village, Manhattan, as I write this review.

 Luckily for us, we can see C. Deneuve in all her beautifully transferred film glory, instead of this washed-out VHS version which does her no justice. Still, it beats NOT seeing this movie at all.

 When you see her flawless face framed out from the closeup of her eyes in the opening shot, you instantly know why Polanski chose her to play the role of Carole Ledoux. Because of her beauty, you will sympathize with her, despite her fatal flaws.  An incredibly beautiful woman, with a womans body, yet possessing an immature mind-a childs mind. Equally capable as her sister of satisfying a man's needs, yet, unlike her sister's sex life, this satisfaction is only a one-way street (when her suitor Colin parks in front of her building and tries to make a move on her, check out the street sign).

 You can really feel Carol's changing persona- or rather, a revealing of her true persona as time progresses. Deneuve does a fanatastic job with all the little details. Half-closed lips, little turned-down mouth showing a kind of sulky poutiness, Carole can't help the little troubled girl coming out of her, who wants her older sister Helene to mother and baby her for the rest of her life.  When Helene leaves with her adulterer BF Micheal for a Roman holiday, it's as if the world is crashing down on poor woman-child Carole. She feels completely abandoned, esp. as an expat isolated in the flats of the mod, swinging London of the 60's.  What a bad time to be a frigid girl, and even worse if you're the poor sod chasing after her!

 Heck- even the nuns in the local convent, who've taken a vow of celibacy, are having more fun than Carole who espies them from her window.

 And what's causing all her distress?

 Well, Polanski employs kind of a pop, Freudian psychology to this tale.  As if you can look into a person's subconscious through their eyes, from the opening shot of her eyes closeup to the last, eerie still of an early family photo in Belgium, it is quite obviously hinted that Carole is hiding and repressing some dark secrets. Her mental undoing, figuratively clued in by her obsession with actual cracks and fissures in the walls and sidewalks surrounding her, is literally represented on screen as shifting, unstable, groping hands of the wall and floor come to "life" to torment her. Dimension is bent, perspective is skewed- time, sounds, and quite disgustingly, rotten smells, which are hard to convey through film, are protocals thrown out by the now schizo Carole. Having gone completely mad, yet she is in "control" in her own way, setting her own rules, rearranging the apartment and dead bodies as she sees fit.

 Hell-only a woman knows how to move furniture and redecorate her apartment for her own needs! Maybe that was her problem!!!

 Have fun, enjoy this movie, and pick up all the countless clues to her condition along the way.

 BTW, Catherine Deneuve is SOOOOOOO godawful gorgeous!!!
 Did I mention that?