Released theatrically in 1956, "Lust for Life" remains one of the finest films about an artist, in this case the great Dutch painter, Vincent Van Gogh. With his keen eye for colour, Vincente Minnelli was the ideal choice to direct this handsome film for MGM. Based on the best selling novel by Irving Stone, "Lust for Life" must have been a real treat to see on the big screen in all its Cinemascope and Metrocolor glory.

Vincent Van Gogh was, of course, the quintessential "tortured soul", who--after a brief but stormy career as a clergyman--found his true calling as an artist. We follow his life through his relationships with others--an overbearing, intolerant father--a generous, supportive brother (Theo)--a woman who spurns his love with a brutal finality--a poor, single mother, Christine, who for a time, offers him shelter from the "storms of life"--and, of course, other artists, most notably the volatile Paul Gauguin. While today Vincent's paintings sell for millions of dollars, and he is recognized as a genius, he did not enjoy monetary success in this lifetime. In fact, despite his love of creating art, he still had to battle serious psychological demons.

As Van Gogh, Kirk Douglas is brilliant--easily one of the finest performances of his long and distinguished career. Visually, Mr.Douglas is perfect, but he also really seems to inhabit the skin and the mind of Van Gogh. He was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar, and justifiably so (he lost to Yul Brynner in "THe King and I"). As Paul Gauguin, Anthony Quinn did win the best supporting Oscar with a role tailor-made for his ebullient, earthy persona. James Donald is fine as Theo, the long-suffering, ever-faithful brother. Pamela Brown as Christine and Henry Daniell as Vincent's autocratic father are both memorable in smaller roles.

Unlike at least one other reviewer, I found the widescreen, colour DVD picture to be gorgeous. The scenes where we see Vincent create some of his famous paintings--for example--"Wheat Field With Crows" are lovely. Many of his paintings from museums, galleries and private collections are woven into the story, or presented in a stunning collage at the end of the film. The Dolby Surround Stereo is effective for a film of this vintage. Extras are sparse--comments from film historian, Drew Casper, and a trailer.

"Lust for Life" is educational--an exceptionally well-acted drama--and a visual feast. Highly recommended.