Contains Spoilers

I'm a huge movie buff and love all sorts of movies, but when I went to go see License to Wed with my friends, I wasn't a very willing participant. I'd heard terrible reviews about the movie and I was convinced I wouldn't like it as well, but  guess my five star rating shows you can never let other people's opinions dictate your own.

License to Wed will never be the type to win an Oscar, or to be noteworthy by critics. It was made for the general audience, but when you see past the corny, yet laughable jokes and the fact that it's a chick flick--there are really great messages about love, relationships, and how people communicate in general.

The story focuses on two people (Ben and Sadie) who are engaged to marry. Sadie is sort of the dominant figure in the relationship and makes the plans, etc, etc. Ben is the laid back, sort of shy, and goes with whatever Sadie says (whether he disagrees or not.) They are both very young and ignorant of the troubles they will face in later marriage life. When they go to Reverend Frank to get their wedding license, he sees this immaturity and their underlying problems, and sets out to help in his own freaky way.

Throughout the movie, Rev. Frank puts Ben and Sadie through a series of tests to see how well they communicate and what roles they play in the relationship. Before when Ben and Sadie never fought, the frequency of their arguments begin to increase. Ben has problems with Sadie turning to other men for feedback on wedding plans, and such, and feels like his word means nothing to her. At the same time, Sadie feels as if Ben is too  immature since the only wedding vows he's written so far is a truck driving though a hoop of fire.

At a certain point in the movie, these problems surface and Sadie breaks the engagement off. Later they get back together once they figure out how to make it work, they get married, the end.

My favorite scene in the whole movie is after Sadie breaks it off with Ben and Ben is sitting with his best friend in a bar. Ben's friend is in a failing marriage, has kids he chooses to ignore, and throughout the entire movie tries to give Ben advice that makes the situation a whole lot worse than necessary. So, anyway, they're in the bar and Ben's friend tries to console him by telling him "there are many other fish in the sea" and "the woman is the bear and you need to get out there and get as many bears as you can before hunting season is over," or something to that nature. Instead of following this advice and going off the deep end,like I expected, Ben actually tells his friend off and that he won't take advice from a guy who can't even keep his marriage life under control.

Ben further states that he loves Sadie and respects her as a woman, not a fish or a bear, and he only wants her because he's in love with her. I rejoiced after I heard this speech because, for once, a good, clean, well brought up guy who may not be Adonis and wasn't particularly sexy--actually got the girl. The whole movie to me proved that good guys can finish first.

I don't know about anyone else who's seen this movie, but I'm buying this one as soon as it becomes available.