Barney's Version is one of my favorite books.  The movie/DVD passes muster in many respects.  It is reasonably faithful to the story and the production is good but its one downfall is casting.

Dustin Hoffman was not actually my idea of Barney's detective dad but is, nevertheless, excellent. Blair was OK but needed to be more satirized.  Similarly,  Minnie Driver takes the role of Barney's obnoxious, but well-meaning, second wife quite delightfully beyond the reader's imagination.

The appearance of the main character, Barney, is far too reminiscent of the presenter in "Mythbusters" even down to the short ginger, curly hair and is borderline OK despite Gaimatti's reasonable acting. To have taken the prototype of the unruly haired Mordecai Richler himself (who appears in the "Special Features" on the DVD) would have been far more convincing.

The druggsy, Buggsy is just too over-the-top Hollywood to be believable. The way directors allow alcoholic characters, schizophrenics and the like such free reign is getting pretty tedious.

Despite what others have said, my one real disappointment was my favorite character, Miriam. The quiet dignity and depth of Miriam's character in the book just didn't fit with the bright-eyed face and slender figure of someone more fitted to modeling women's underwear in a Sears' catalogue. That's not to say that Rosamund Pike didn't do a valiant job but she just wasn't Miriam to begin with.  The frilly icing on top of this was, not only did Miriam not age over the span of 40 years, or so, but she actually appeared younger. Maybe it was vanity. The absence of aging make-up could have been a condition of the contract if Rosamund wished to remain so bright-eyed and bushy tailed in the public's mind - for future occasions.  Good luck to her I say, she would actually be excellent and well worth watching if cast in a  more suitable part.

Overall, the movie is well worth watching but, as is often the case, slightly disappointing if you've identified too closely with the real characters in Mordecai Richler`s  book.