`Die Hard 2' is NOT a guilty pleasure but story telling and film making at its very best. I will valiantly defend it as one of the greatest action/terrorist films ever made. It is extremely effective at invoking fear and emotion.

The Plot: For those of you who haven't seen the film, it is a sequel to Bruce Willis' groundbreaking star making film `Die Hard'. Again, away from his home environment LA cop John McClane innocently travels to Washington DC's Dulles Airport (not located in DC but Ashburn VA) to pick up his wife (Bonnie Badelia) again on Christmas. McClane finds himself in the center of WWIII when terrorists seize the entire airport threatening crash every plane unless a South American tyrant is set free. Hindered by incompetent and arrogant police chief Dennis Franz it is up to McClane to literally single handedly stop an army of better armed and better trained terrorists.

Comic relief is heavy from Willis' one liners and Badelia who finds herself stuck on an airplane with William Atherton, the same sleazy reporter she punched out in `Die Hard.'

The film credits a pulp novel by Walter H. Wager  `58 Minutes.' Although they have a similar premise they two stories are very different and I do not recommend '58 Minutes' as a book.

What sets `Die Hard 2' apart from other action films are many effective and unique elements.

1. By far the best aspect of the film are the villains headed by William Sadler. While lacking any charisma their lack of emotion I their strong suite they are true soldiers who will sacrifice innocent lives and their own without conscious to complete their mission. They are pure evil, thus we hate them even more.

2. The terrorists are smarter, better armed and better prepared than Willis much like the original `Die Hard'. The terrorists are American x-special forces who look cool in army boots, leather jackets and sporting the latest weapons, Glock pistols and MP5 submachine guns. Our hero is the underdog thus the bigger they come the harder they fall. We admire our hero's accomplishments more because they are so difficult.

3. The terrorists actually commit an act of terrorism. Unlike most films in which the terrorists merely threaten innocent lives, here they actually take them. One of the film's most dramatic scenes is when they crash a British airplane killing hundreds of people.

4. Being a terrorist is not enough to be a villain. Their hostages are mere numbers. We start to hate them very early in the film when they try to kill our hero. Someone we care about.

5. High production quality also helps with excellent photography, set design, and editing.

6. The incompetence and interference of the authorities is also effective in making us admire our hero. He's on his own. Everything the police try to do is either bureaucratic or counter productive. Dennis Franz and Senator Fred Thompson are brilliant as comical bureaucrats. They're real jerks.

We are able to truly hate and fear the terrorists. The danger seems very real.

Even minor things in the script are genius. For example, what appears to be side talk in the beginning turns out to be significant later. In the opening a terrorist's nonchalant remark is that the only problem is a last minute change in personal. Later a SWAT member casually mentions he is new and only here because the regular guy got a an appendicitis. Only later do we realize the significance of these and the replacement is killed because he's the only one not in on the plot.

Brilliant film making.