When this movie first came out the trailer was full of the characters talking about overseas politics and looking so stuffy I thought this was another ponderously BORING Merchant Ivory movie and you know those NEVER move along.Being that Anthony Hopkins has been in so many M/Ivory movies, I thought this was another knock-off and I stayed out of the theatre. I didn't see Legends until it came onto Cable.If it had been marketed correctly I would have PAID to see it 10 times!

Wow! Just about my favorite all-time movie! It starts a little slow, but builds such an emotional momentum that you're left drained at the end!
Brad Pitt did an excellent job of acting. Cutting out your brother's heart so his spirit can get to heaven and feeling eternally guilt-ridden and self-destructive because he couldn't save the brother is a tough acting role. The photography is postcard beautiful all the way through and the music score has popped up everywhere because of its incredible beauty. The plot of this movie you can't guess; it goes places you never would expect, places that make you gasp with surprise.

This is the way movies should be made, but alas, I think those days are  gone to be replaced by the immature comic book culture we have now.

I bought the book hoping to read more about these fascinating character, but the book was a short story which was only basically an outline. What an incredible job the screenwriters did in fleshing out very psychologically intricate and complicated characters. Much better than the book could every aspire to! All of the actors were perfectly cast. Aidan Quinn as the control freak Alfred; I could see why Susanna blew her brains out after she came back from being finally spurned by Tristan only to get the 3rd degree by Alfred when she got home. Quinn did a great job depicting a man eaten by jealousy of his brother and suspicion of his wife.

This is not a chick flick. It's for all thinking people who love an extremely well-crafted movie and a fantastic emotional roller coaster ride. Having not attended ONE movie this year because of sequels, remakes and just plain drek, I wish, wish,wish we could get another movie this great!