I got a chance to watch Halloween 2 with the director's commentary on which I thought was very well done.  Rick Rosenthal and Leo Rossi (one of the ambulence drivers in the movie) seem like old friends and give you some great insight into the movie.  Leo references several times about how he's kept in touch with some of the co-stars of Halloween and Halloween 2 via conventions and autograph signings.  It just shows you the popularity of these films and the cult following they have.  The deleted scenes are excellent and also have Rick's commentary on them.  I wish that Scream Factory and Universal would have allowed Rick to edit these scenes back into the movie the way they were supposed to be and given us a true "Rosenthal Cut" vs. the TV version.  As it is well known, John Carpenter went back after viewing the original cut and directed several scenes that were more violent and better competed with the slasher films that were coming out in the early '80's like Friday the 13th.  Carpenter felt like the movie wasn't scary enough when actually, the script was this issue, which Carpenter and Debra Hill wrote.

I think that Halloween 2 is an under appreciated sequel to arguabally one of the greatest horror movies of all time.  Is is a good at the original?  Of course not...very few sequels ever are.  But if you watch both movies, you can see where Rosenthal used very similar camera angle techniques that Carpenter used in the first movie.  It would have been interesting to see the original Rosenthal cut with Carpenter's music from the original...NOT the digitized score.  Carpenter readily admits that he saved the original Halloween with music and that it wasn't scary in the original screening before it.  I'll bet that Halloween 2 would have been much better received if those 2 things happened.

Anyway, I enjoyed this new Collector's Edition of Halloween 2 and would recommend it over the recently released 30th Anniverary Blu Ray edition.  Sorry, for me the bonus material in this version outweigh the "Terror in the Aisles" bonus movie.

P.S.  Look for Dana Carvey in a bit role (his first movie appearance) as a reporter in the beginning of the movie.  He's the guy that the TV lady reporter is talking to when she's telling him to "interview the kids and get their consent but if he couldn't get that to interview them anyway".