I am old enough to remember when Bullitt came out.  Steve was making the talk show circuit pitching the movie.  Of couse they mentioned the chase scene. It helped sell the movie but did not seem like such a big deal at the time.  There were lots of movies before it with chase scenes.  The thing that changed Hollywood for the next 25 years or so was that : A. the cars were filmed at real speed - 100 mph+. Before this they either speeded up the cameras and did not have other cars in the scene so it looked like the car was going fast although it was not or they had the "stars" in a car on the set and a fake back gound in back of them and all the stars had to remember was to turn the steering wheels once in a while.  Such as Hollywood stardom and lack of care in editing that they were as likely as not to turn the wheel in the wrong direction than the road in the background would indicate they shoud turn it. B.  there was a real star behind the wheel at speed. Steve put an end to all of of the fake stuff. Never again would an audiance be fooled by the fakeness (until the 1990's when computer generated chase scenes would take over.) So 1968 - 1990 or so was the golden age for car chase scenes - real cars on real roads at real speeds going real fast and with the very occasional real star behind the wheel (Steve McQueen, Paul Newman, James Garner).  Now we come to Steve though.  He was a real motor cycle racer - he also raced a Porsche 917 at Le Mans and made the movie Le Mans which is the best racing movie ever made (Grand Prix with James Garner the second best. So he was the genuine article and according to docmentaries that I have seen hated it when the movie sudios would make him accept a stunt double - he was too valuable to risk according to them, not to Steve.  The best scene in the chase sequence has Steve missing a turn up a hill and smoking the tire (as apposed to tires - no posi traction) up the hill.  According to the documantry, this was a mistake.  Steve was actually driving the car and missed his turn to go up the hill.  He was so pissed that he jammed the transmission into reverse and smoked the tire while the the wheel jumped around wildly in the wheel well - (Mustangs had live rear axles in those days - still do unless you opt for the Cobra) and then when positioned for the hill let out the clutched at high RPMs and let er' rip burning rubber all the way up the hill.  The director wisely kept the "mistake" in the film and it is maybe the best part of the chase scene.  Sure there are some mistakes like the Charger seems to loose something like six of its four hugcaps.  Still it is better than the worst chase scene something like Sylvester Stalone's Get Carter where in the course of the chase the Cadillac starts somehow reparing itself so that the head light that had been bashed out 2 minutes before has fixed its body work and a minute later is turned on.  Sort of like a chase scent in reverse.  The Cadillac starts out smashed up and ends up in near show room condition after the chase. Who was the film editor on this film again? Did anybody bother to watch it before it was released? Hmm that is OK though -it is not as Bad as Slys' racing movie Driven where race cars start going the opposite direction on the track.  Oh well - there are those actors who merely show up to speak lines and there are those that are truly engaged in what they are doing.  Steve got chased form the Le Mans track by security because he was trying to take pictures of the racing cars  three or four inches from the track tarmack while they went by at 200+ MPH.  His best line from Le Mans.  "To men who do it well, racing is life, everything else is just waiting". God, I miss him.