Magical!

This is truly a work of genius. Like The Wizard of Oz, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe (the book, at least), and the song, Puff the Magic Dragon, it takes us into another world, strange and frightening, yet oddly familiar. And when we leave it, we are a little sad and eager to return.

The film is full of mysteries (Thank you, Tsuyoshi, for helping with some of them) and difficult to understand, and that is perhaps part of its appeal. Fundamentally it is, I think, a coming-of-age story, with Chihiro forced to meet great challenges without the support of her parents for the first time.

Indeed, Chihiro's parents have in a sense abandoned her by indulging themselves to excess. Therein lies one of the film's lessons: ultimately we must rely on ourselves. Her parents illustrate another theme of the film: Attempts to classify people as good or evil are bound to fail. Everyone, however good,  is capable of vile things (the mindless gluttony of her parents, the violence of Haku), and those who seem irredeemably evil (the dangerous No Face and the cruel Yubaba) are quite capable of good. This is much closer to reality than the cookie cutter figures of so many more traditional films, including those intended solely for adults, and of so many  politicians and talk show hosts who define and dismiss our enemies as "evil doers."

A related message is illustrated by the stinking river god: We are as we are chiefly because of our environment, which includes how we are treated by others. When the  abuses  of Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq came to light, many people excused the actions of our troops by saying, "There are a few rotten apples in every barrel." The eminent social psychologist Philip Zimbardo replied, "It isn't the apples that are rotten, it's the barrel." It is no coincidence that it is the gentle, respectful Chihiro, not the powerful and violent Yubaba, who tames No Face.

Some parts of the film may frighten the youngest children. I remember a nephew who at age ten always closed his eyes when the Wicked Witch of the West appeared in Oz. But we cannot forever close our eyes to the things that frighten us, and films such as Spirited Away help us, children and adult alike, open our eyes. That's  partly why we call them magical.