For me, much of the pleasure in this film lies in the way in which it taps into so many of the classic stories with which many of us have grown up. There is so much here that comes from other tales, myths, movies, etc. There is the "clever North Wind" bringing Vianne and Anouk to the village (not unlike the wind upon which Mary Poppins flew in and out via her umbrella). There is also the "suspicious" influences of Vianne and Anouk in the village which are akin not only to those of Mary Poppins in the Banks' household, but also of Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon when they entered Pleasantville.
Of course, and as other reviewers have pointed out, another wonderful feature of this film is its amazing sensory appeal. The appeal is not, however, limited to taste, as one might expect of a film entitled *Chocolat*. It's rich in visual appeal--sunlight, firelight, candlelight, clouds, shadows; tactile appeal--snow, water, fire; and auditory appeal--with a beautifully haunting soundtrack and some very fun songs played by Johnny Depp as Roux and his fellow river rats.
The only real problem I had with the movie really concerned the Comte de Reynaud. He seemed, unlike the other characters who managed to combine comedy with deeper thoughts and emotions, to be an entirely comic character. I personally believe that this is due to shallow character development. I wanted to know more about his personal life--what, in more detail, he was hiding from the townspeople that made him so pompous; what he thought about that made him so adamant about resisting temtation. He just didn't seem. . . tortured enough. Although he had certain traits that were familiar, his was a character that I have not encountered before and therefore needed more information in order to relate to him better.
Despite my problem with the Comte de Reynaud, I think this is a wonderful film--perhaps even one of my all-time favorites--and therefore deserving of no fewer stars than five. The time of the film's setting--during Lent--is perfect for that which the film accentuates. Comedy, drama, mysticism, magic--it depicts so much in life which is there for us to enjoy. Watch it, and perhaps it will change yours.