Restreppo chronicles a group of American soldiers moving into the notorious Korengal Valley, a region considered one of the country's most dangerous. Weaving footage collected in the valley and interviews with soldiers conducted after, it aims to tell the story of this corner of the war through the eyes of these soldiers.

Almost as an afterthought, it turns out that there are people who actually live in the valley, called Afghans, and who are subjected to the daily bombings of these  soldiers. Of course, any consideration of their experience of the war, or of Afghanistan's long history and rich culture, is outside the scope of the film.

At the same time, while the film vaguely encourages viewers to sympathize with the soldiers while dehumanizing or dismissing the people who actually live in the valley, there is no character development or back-story of any kind, apart from a few phone calls home and a brief description of one soldier's hippy parents. Thus, in a documentary ostensibly about a war with a dramatic human and economic toll, one of the most crucial issues of our time, the film is an insipid chronicle of young men hanging around an army base in unfamiliar territory, utterly devoid of any wider context or examination of either the war itself or their lives.

The most disturbing feature of the film is that, in dozens of interviews with many soldiers, at no point does any of them express any empathy for the Afghan people, who they claim in vague terms to be helping. A particularly ironic scene occurs when soldiers surround the house of an elderly Afghan man, who is clearly terrified and begins shouting, but of course no one understands what he is saying. One of the soldiers later remarks that this was a frightening moment; it doesn't seem to occur to him that the old man may have also been frightened. This scene sets the racist tone of the film, which contains no discussion whatsoever of the likely fate of the Afghan people after the war.

On this note, the soldiers interviewed demonstrate a disturbing lack of critical thinking about the war; one might imagine that this would be a key theme of a movie about soldiers experiences, but no one offers any insight whatsoever. Repeatedly, they speak of the need to "get the job done", or some similarly insipid slogan, but no one offers anything outside of this narrow context. Hardly any of them speak any of the local dialect, and neither they nor the filmmakers are at all interested in the country's history or culture. Thus, the main story of the film becomes the soldiers high-fiving and backslapping each other and shooting into space at what is blandly described as "bad guys" or "the enemy".

We do see soldiers meeting with a group of elders in the local villages in several scenes. However, rather than providing any window into the local culture or experiences of the local people, these scenes merely reinforce the soldiers' calculated ignorance and contempt for Afghan people. On several occasions, the soldiers lie openly to the local leaders, claiming, for example, that after driving out the Taliban they will make the region rich--a fantastical claim given the current state of Afghanistan, which has one of the world's most corrupt governments and is by all estimates going to remain one of the world's poorest countries regardless of the war's outcome. Again, this theme lies outside of the framework of the film.

The most revealing scene comes when they push forward into a new position, and in the process kill about five Afghan civilians. Everyone remarks that this is unfortunate from a strategic perspective, since they need to cooperate with the families of those they have now killed, but otherwise no one seems to reflect on the horror they are causing this community. When American soldiers are killed, the unique significance of their lives is celebrated in various ways, but when the people who actually live in Afghanistan die, and whose families will be there long after the soldiers have returned home, it is scarcely worthy of mention. Incredibly, the filmmakers manage to excise any critical reflection from this event, reinforcing the racist theme pervading the whole documentary.

The movies ends by noting, seemingly without irony, that U.S. forces withdrew from the Korengal Valley shortly thereafter. Effectively, this means that the mission chronicled was, from a military perspective, a failure. In addition, an untold number of Afghan civilians were killed--no one bothers to count how many. The soldiers nonetheless congratulate themselves,ignorant to the very end, on a job well done, and return home to their previous lives (about which we still no nothing), and leave Afghanistan more or less as they found it.