I grew up watching the original "Witch Mountain" films, and I was pretty reluctant to see this film.  Eddie Albert who played the reluctant helper to the alien children in the first film is a tough act to top, and if this film was a remake, then it would have been hard to do.  However, this film is an entirely different film in a very good way though it does share some elements with the original such as the kids being helped by originally reluctant people who tend to be on the sidelines of society be it the Eddie Albert misanthrope character or Dwayne Johnson's ex-felon character.

Unlike the original film the kids in this film have just arrived to Earth, and they have every intention of going back to their home world whereas the original film the homeworld of the alien kids was either destroyed or not longer habitable and that the Earth was their permanent home with the children seeking a loving family. In this film as soon as the children find the device for which they are looking which can regenerate their world they seek to return to their homeworld.  Apparantly, the Earth was a testing ground for this device, and underneath the Nevada desert some folks from these kids' home world came and managed to create a working model.  The home planet of these kids in this film is still around, but it is not doing well because of major environmental damage.  On this planet there was a debate between regenerating the existing planet or invading the Earth to use as a new home.  The military of the planet wants to invade the Earth and colonize it whereas these kids come from a family of scientists who know about the regneration device and seek to fix the homeworld rather than conquering the earth.  The kids' parents get arrested for opposing the military, but the kids manage to get away in order to retrieve the device so that they can stop the invasion of the earth and to also save their world.  In short, the whole plot and overall goal of the protagonists in this film is entirely different than the original.

It was really great to see how in this film the actor and actress who played the original children in the 1970s-era "Escape to Witch Mountain" played a role in the film.  In the diner scene the fellow who played the boy in "Escape to Witch Mountain" is the Sheriff having dinner in the diner, and the woman who played the girl is the helpful waitress.  To me having the former surviving actors in the new film was a great was to show that the new film was playing homage to the original instead of ignoring history as what happens in so many remakes.

Also, it was really fun to see references to the old film in this new one such as the Winnebago driven by the Eddie Albert character in the first film and the scene with the children on the examination table which kind of reminded me of the second "Return to Witch Mountain" film where the boy was being examined by the Christopher Lee character.

The special effects in this film were well done, and the film did not overdo the special effects at all which was really refreshing.  Unlike some films where special effects can seem pretty artificial like in the first "Hulk" film in this one the special effects seemed pretty realistic for the most part.

The plot of this film was pretty good, and the interaction between the characters was all right.  My only quibble here is that it would have been good if there was more time between the Dwayne Johnson character and the kids for the kids to explain the whole situation confronting them rather than things coming out in bits and pieces.  It was kind of confusing to me why that little shack in the middle of the Nevada desert was chosen for the regeneration experiment and who built it.  It would have been nice if the kids provided more background to everything before the chase scences started.  While the chase scences were exciting I think it would have been nice if a chase scence or two would have been eliminated in favour of more interaction between the characters as I felt that was somewhat lacking in this film.  It seemed like the characters were running around the whole time barely getting to know each other.  With all of that being said the actors and actresses did their roles well, and I cannot say the interaction between them was bad.  The only issue is that if there was more time for their personalities to come out, then it would have been better.  Finally, the other thing I would have changed in this film is to reduce the number of villians.  Kind of like how Spiderman 3 really had gotten crowded in terms of bad guys this film had so many anatongists floating around be it the Mafia, the Federal Government, and an alien assassin that it was hard for each character to develop.  I would have definitely dropped the Mafia guys as Dwayne Johnson's character's problems with them seemed to have disappeared and not be resolved by the end of the film.  I think the Federal Agent should have been the sole villian, and he could have been kind of like "Agent Smith" from the Matrix film.  Because of the crowded field of bad guys all of them needed screen time which kind of reduced time for everyone including the protagonists.  The comic relief by the Tom Everett Scott character did not pan out very well, and again, the villians should have been reduced and been limited to the Federal agents as they all had great potential as characters.

The positive points I will say about this film is that Dwayne Johnson interacted so well with the kids, and he really did well in his role as the reluctant guide for the children.  Also, the scientist who accompanied the kids and Johnson to Witch Mountain was played pretty well.  The science fiction convention going on during this film provided some neat irony, and it was fun to see the kids' reaction to all the folks dressed up as Imperial Storm troopers and Star Wars folks.  I liked the part where the kids were watching some science fiction performance and asked the Johnson character if it was a re-enactement of some major event on Earth!  The folks who played the kids were also pretty good, and the contrast between the boy and the girl provided some good tension in the sense that the boy was the cautious, analytical one whereas the girl was able to read feelings well and could determine emotions which provided a good balance in their relationship on screen.  The music in this film was actually pretty good, too, and I was actually surprised for it being a Disney film.  Again, it was especially nice how references were made to the original film, too, by including elements of it and by including the original child actors.

Basically, this film is a good watch for a family with older kids (10+) as there are some violent scene in the film which might not be the best for small children.  The plot is pretty good, and the film is pretty fast-paced and keeps the viewers' attention.  This film definitely can stand on its own independent of the other "Witch Mountain" films as the storyline is well done.  This film is definitely worth watching, and fans of the original films won't have to worry about this film butchering the original.