I give this film 5 stars because it is extremely touching. To be honest no movie has touched me the way this has and I have seen many (highly praised classic movies, indie films etc.).
IMHO, Steve Sandvoss is superb as the closeted gay Mormon missionary Elder Davis (Aaron Davis), who is attracted to the twenty-something gay party boy Christian (although he dislikes Christian's shallow lifestyle). Especially in the dramatic scenes (for example: the confrontation between Aaron and his mother, who condemns homosexuality)which take place after Aaron's return home (Aaron's fellow missionaries see Aaron and Christian kissing and Aaron is sent home in shame)he does a terrific job and you cannot help but like and sympathize with the character he portrays.
Wes Ramsey, who plays the party boy who tries to seduce one of the Mormon missionaries who move in next door and whose life changes dramatically after falling for the inexperienced and sincere Aaron, turns in a very good performance.
The plot of the film makes use of many so-called coincidences. (You may or may not like that). I think all these 'coincidences' are part of the film's charm. The film is basically a mixture between comedy and drama and also contains some melodramatic elements. It is also a romantic love story. And it is also a film which deals with the problems people who are born gay into a religious community which considers homosexuality/the practice of homosexuality a sin face. You do not have to be homosexual or particularly interested in religion (I am neither) to find that interesting. The film is certainly not an in-depth exploration of all the problems someone who is gay and a member of a religious community which condemns homosexuality is confronted with but I think the film should not be bashed for that. "Latter Days" is not a documentary.
If you like dramatic love stories, if you believe that there are people who are destined for each other and if you are not homophobic, I can highly recommend this movie to you.
Last but not least, I would like to mention Erik Palladino, who portrays a man dying from AIDS. His performance is really impressive.