Originally I saw Phantasm as a ten year old at the drive-in in 1979 with the second movie being Prophecies. It was a van load of us, three adults and two kids. Everyone was mortified by this movie.
Us kids were told to close our eyes a few times during the sex scenes but we pretty much saw everything else. The adults screamed almost as much as the kids.
Not a joke, I was too traumatized by Phantasm to ever eat butterscotch pudding again until very recently when I finally managed to love the movie starting in 2010. I watched it one other time on VHS in the 80s but it still scared me horribly and I could barely watch the tv while the others enjoyed it.
Us kids and another had an unexpected run in at a video store with Don Coscarelli standing behind the counter there selling and signing DVDs of Phantasm. I thought the guy worked there and was one step toward asking him about a certain movie I was looking for until someone took a flash photo of him. He politely told the fellow not to take any more. I asked the others who was he and then we all realized who.
We bought a Phantasm DVD and he autographed it.
Afterwards watched the movie literally within two hours of the encounter but I couldn't bring myself to watch anymore than the first ten minutes. I was too scared too. This was around 2003. In 2010 I finally watched it fully through again after over twenty years since the VHS encounter.
Now I've probably watched it at least 10 times. I have now seen all the sequels and really love how Phatasm 4 uses a lot of cut scenes from the original.
I literally didn't make the connection until 2010 that Coscarelli directed Kenny and Company, Phantasm, and Beastmaster; all movies I seen in the theater and drive-in. WOW.
I look forward to seeing John Dies At The End this year in the theater and then Phantasm 5 in 2013 or 2014 in time for the 35th anniversary.
Phantasm itself should be put into the Library of Congress archives with the other films. Why? Because as terrified of it as I was for so long, I now watch it with utter fascination at its effectiveness as a horror while liking the relationships of the brothers and their buddy Reggie. It seems Reggie and Jody bonded even more after their "trio" with Tommy ended before the audience got to know him. The new trio of Mike, Jody, and Reggie is so dynamic that when the end is near you don't want it to end. Phantasm 3 and 4 help keep it going but the innocence of the first movie is gone from them. If a bluray comes out hopefully it could do what Ridley Scott did with Blade Runner on bluray, put cut scenes and added shots into the movie for a directors cut/Phan cut. This could be released by itself or side by side with Phantasm 5. Either way I will always keep the DVD playing till the bluray arrives.