You can tell just from the first shot in The Ice Storm that it will completely envelop you.  The crackling sound as the train comes to a stop on a cold Connecticut night, the beautifully poetic score by Michael Danna, the twinkling trees and landscape revealing a calm after the storm.  You have a feeling that the beauty is masking a lot of desperation and vulnerability.  It is a really bold piece of New American Cinema.  Tackling the same old issues, but in a way that is startlingly fresh and revealing.
Kevin Cline is great as a fumbling, bored NY businessman who finds a tragic way to rock the family suburban lifestyle.  And Joan Allen is amazingly sparse in her portrayal of an early 1970's housewife who finally confronts her husband's infedelity.  Tobey Mcguire (who also narrates the film) and Cristina Ricci, as their children, give equally delicate and involved performances.  Sigourney Weaver is given her best role here, as the swinging wife of Jamey Sheridan, who is supposedly the genious that helps develop silicon from sand.  Rounding out the cast is Elijah Wood as their troubled son, and Adam Hann-Byrd as his younger and more eloquent brother.
Overall, It's an beautifully interwoven story of the miscommunications between two neighboring families.  And it really confronts the overtone of the early 1970's era, by setting up parallels between the harsh political climate (a la Watergate) with what is hapenning between the two families.  But I think the most meaningful and touching aspect is how we see love (or at least a sexual awakening mistaken as love) blooming between 2 teenagers in a way that is heartbreakingly real.  I really appreciated how they made the experiences between these young characters appear genuine, loving, and meaningful.  It isnt often that a film captures what love feels like for someone so new at it.  I think one of the delicate ironies of the film is that, despite their youth and inexperience, these people's children  probably have a better understanding about what love is really about than they do.  
I think the film is also about a loss of innocence, but not necessarily a loss of sexual innocence.  It shows how sometimes children are thrust into adulthood because of traumatic events in their lives, and they often times loose a part of themselves in the process.  The ending is truly devastating, but so poetically rendered and realistically fleshed-out.  It really makes you feel an incomprehensible sadness that is never really resolved before the film ends, which is infinately refreshing.  As we all know, there isn't always a fitting way to console the heartbroken.  So maybe its best to just leave it at that.
It probes deep into the intricate concepts of love, family, betrayal, and loss.  It is as delicate a film as they come.  Surely the best film Ang Lee has ever done.  And i think greatly overlooked as possibly one of the best films in the past decade.