I'll try to keep this review as brief and concise as possible.  I wasn't expecting much from this, after all made-for-TV movies don't usually get my hopes up in the first place.  Often times the scripts and plots are less than realistic, the acting leaves a lot to be desired, and it's one of those things you turn to watch when you've got nothing better to do.

Enter Titanic II...

From the opening scenes of the surf-boarder taking advantage of(falling?)ice from a glacier in the Antarctic, I knew I was in for a real treat.  Basically, the premise of the movie is that a new vessel, Titanic II, is making her maiden voyage exactly 100 years after the first tragedy.  Along the way, a massive tsunami PUSHES an iceberg into her path and of course all hell breaks loose.  I kid you not when I say that this might have been the most utterly pathetic boring movie I've ever had the misfortune of watching.  The "special effects" looked like they were done by a high school drama department. They relied so much on computer imaging and enhancements that the ship ended up looking like a cartoon at times. The acting(haha)was so bad that it was funny--there were scenes that were meant to be tragic and dramatic where I literally found myself howling with laughter(case point: the scene where one of the extras walks up to Shane Van Dyke and yells "It's all your fault")! I DARE anyone not to laugh...

This movie is full of shenanigans and tomfoolery from beginning to end. It's basically a bunch of people running around a doomed "vessel" having absolutely no point or purpose. Even Bruce Davison's normally passable acting is painful to watch here. The characters spend most of the movie running around like chickens with their heads cut off. I can't say I blame them. Had I been acting in this, I would've wanted to jump ship too(pun intended).  Virtually everything is wrong here. Nothing "feels" or looks real.  From the dining-room scenes which look like they were shot in a high school gymnasium, to the "engine room" with its CONCRETE walls--it just doesn't work folks.

Like I said, after the saga was finished, I couldn't believe what I just witnessed.  Not only is it(IMO)an insult to a great liner, it's an insult to the memory of all who perished on her.  It certainly begs the question of why this movie was allowed into production in the first place? Like other reviewers have said, the acting is horrid, the storyline is  completely ridiculous and nonsensical, and after all is said and done, everyone looks like they are standing around just waiting for their paycheck from this thing. Due to those factors, this perhaps ends up being one of the funniest(in a bad way)movies ever made. I laughed so hard several times I nearly soaked my pants. Trust me folks, don't waste your time. Even if your curiosity peaks, pass this one up.  How they even got away with this garbage mystifies me.