This wasn't what I expected. I guess I expected some surprising plot twists or deep insight into human desperation or modern society. That's what the reviews and the official trailer (contained on this disc) would have me believe. Well, there is plenty of footage of human desperation, but really nothing surprising or insightful. People don't have jobs, a bike gets stolen, and you get the impression by the end that maybe thievery isn't such a rare thing in that place. You could say that some parallels are drawn between people suffering on both sides of the law and in different situations. In an artsy way you might find that interesting. Probably the most interesting aspect of the movie is the way that emotions and body language are portrayed by the actors. It is very genuine, good acting. So, if you can just get into the raw emotions it's perhaps a little interesting, except that for the most part there is only one emotion: desperation.

The main problem I have is with the plot. Okay, so it's called "The Bicycle Thief," so you know that a bike gets stolen. I thought the movie would show perspectives of both the thief and the victim perhaps, or that there is more to the thief than just stealing bicycles. Well, you never get to learn much about the thief. I won't give any more away, but basically the plot goes nowhere. Nothing much happens until basically the very end and even then I found it anticlimactic. The ending is totally unresolved. Basically, I spent the whole movie feeling anxious for the main character, gritting my teeth hoping things turn out for the best, and after and hour-and-a-half all I got for my nervous hope was a screen saying "fine." It's not just that the ending doesn't turn out for the best, it doesn't turn out for the worst either. It just isn't satisfying and it didn't make me stand up and say "Whoa. That was incredibly deep!"

All that said, maybe the point of this film is to linger on the details of everyday life, rather than address what is ostensibly the plot. If you are interested in something that primarily glorifies the mundane details of life, then you may enjoy this.