The Kingdom is an interesting crime thriller, action movie that also packs a few surprises. I found the scenes in Saudi Arabia (even though I believe it wasn't actually filmed there) very interesting, it was intriguing to get a (fictional) glimpse into this exotic and still somewhat mysterious part of the world. I really enjoyed the documentary-style filmmaking, it gave the movie an amped-up edge.

For me, the best revelations of the movie came in the form of the two Saudi police officers who play central roles in the story. I believe that, for at least the captain, he had to learn english for his lines. Both men's performances were absolutely superb. Pure acting ability, they are so genuine & perfect in their roles, it was a total pleasure to watch them.

Jeremy Piven has a small-ish role in the movie, but as always I find him immensely entertaining. He gives another manic, high-strung performance, which he is so good at.

Jennifer Garner shows her athletic abilities once again in a no-holds barred fight scene, total wow - go Jennifer!!

Jamie Foxx & Chris Cooper never disappoint, they both have charm, talent and great screen presence, this movie is no exception.

Jason Bateman was one of my faves in this movie, he is hilarious in his role, and even pulls off the serious scenes with complete believability. I think his performance will elevate his acting career in many an eye...

On the down-side, I found the very beginning of the movie (after the initial incident that gets the ball rolling) to be underwhelming, flat and left blanks where the characters could have been built up a bit more. It needed a lot more meat to it, and had it had that, it would have enhanced the rest of the movie.

The director, Peter Berg, overall really impresses with this movie. I look forward to future films helmed by him.

The DVD extras of the movie were also quite interesting, especially the full-takes, actor by actor, of one of the big action scenes. The timeline is an interesting, informative read and the best part of the extras is the making of the freeway scene - definitely worth viewing after the show. Speaking of the freeway scene...

**a bit of a spoiler alert below**

My favorite part of the movie was the freeway scene - absolutely incredible, over-the-top action! It was amazing - the camera angles, the stunts, and it comes at you all of a sudden from left field, when the movie leads you to believe the story is winding down - it is actually hitting the turbo-jets - but because the turbo jets had also been engaged earlier in the show (twice, the second one also unexpected), you're not really expecting additional super-high octane thrills. At this point the movie really lets loose and we get down to some serious business...

Overall, this is definitely an entertaining, somewhat enlightening movie that is worth a view. Enjoy!

Rai Aren