I watched this film when it was released in VHS years ago, but it is still a great film.  I've read a few bad reviews about this movie, where people claim it to be propaganda in order to better the U.S' position in the world, but it isn't.

Dealing with the issue of Childers murdering those Yemenis, to tell the truth, I understand protests, but they were blazingly violent.  They were grabbing guards and beating the crap out of them.  A mother had her child in her arms while standing next to a sniper on a rooftop, and shielded his ears while he was firing (which reminds me of the protestors at the Terri Schiavo 2-week death period, where they brought their kids, only to have them arrested).  The fact that the crowd had guns was just the "cherry on top" for a good excuse for Childers to solve the problem permanently.  That embassy was U.S soil, and snipers (and the crowd) were firing at it, killing Marines, throwing firebombs, rocks, pretty much they signed their death warrants when they got violent.

It was U.S soil, though, and Childers had every right to kill anyone attacking it.  Right now in Uzbekistan, for example, they are going through a type of civil war.  It started with VIOLENT protests against the government for wrongfully imprisoning their comrades.  If they had protested peacefully, their murders would incite a cry of mass slaughter.  However, they were attacking government soldiers, so the soldiers have a right to defend themselves.

To have your hands tied behind your back, carrying a loaded rifle, while the possibility of instant death or torture is looming in your face, and you cannot fire because you fear the legal and sociopolitical consequences of your actions - is just plain nuts...and I am not supporting Florida's "Wild-West" gun law by saying that.

That being said, the film is an inspiration for doing the right thing.  It defends truth, justice, and fairness.  Whether you are a "bleeding heart Liberal" or a staunch anti-American from another country, you will love this film because, even though it is fiction, it does represent today's justice system and how difficult it can be to reach truth.  Plus, the government loses the case - OH NO, SPOILER!  Sorry :(