"Swing Time" is the best of the 7 Astaire and Rogers films: the seamless integration of songs into an interesting and funny plot, a cast perfectly fitted to the their musical comedy roles, witty and droll dialogue, dazzling art deco sets, and of course the most delightful and artistically satisfying choreography-dancing ever captured on screen. If that sounds overblown it is not. This film should be considered one of the top 10 movies of all time. It didn't happen overnight. Fred Astaire, choreographer Hermes Pan, Ginger Rogers and a great team of musicians and artists at RKO lead by producer Pandro Berman worked together over several years and five earlier movies to reach the heights of musical comedy perfection with this film as their crowning glory.

Although famed comic straight man Edward Everett Horton is not in this movie "Swing Time" has many strong comic moments care of the always wonderful Eric Blore, Helen Broderick (Mother of Broderick Crawford), and Victor Moore. Years on the Vaudeville stage (Eric of course was on the variety circuit in England) has polished the comic timing of this trio. Keep an eye out for the repeating pants gag. Don't miss the reactions of the dog, cat and painting of Grandfather over Lucky Garnett's missed wedding.

Jerome Kern wrote the score full of wonderful melodies but supposedly the orchestrations were punched up considerably with heavy swing influence by Fred (Astaire was an accomplished pianist...see his piano solo in "Follow the Fleet"), Robert Russell Bennett, and Fred's life long piano accompanist and arranger Hal Borne. Fred and musical team wanted the music and the dancing to show off the new swing-jazz style of big band music sweeping the nation. To this score add the heavy syncopated rhythms of Fred and Ginger's tap work and you have compelling and masterfully sophisticated musical numbers with a beat you can't get out of your head. The peak of the swing theme is Fred's BIG dance tribute to the jazz-dancing of Bojangles. Fred's tap work and the "tacky" piano are the writhing rhythmic spine of this supremely creative number where Fred partners with 30 girls at once and out-dances even his own shadow. Contrasting with these swing-jazz numbers are the 3 love songs in the film. Two of these are famous pieces: "The Way You Look Tonight" delivered by Fred, which pulls Ginger and the audience to him like a magnet and the cleverly sarcastic " A Fine Romance" duet. Just listen to the sublime glockenspiel and tubular bell intro to "Fine Romance". Both songs do more to move the plot along than an hour of dialogue and are more marks of the greatness of this musical. The third song is the less known "Never Gonna Dance" with charming but somewhat nonsensical lyrics by Dorothy Fields although there is the ingenious convergence of the `lucky' coin theme in Lucky Garnett's singing of the loss of Penny. Fred's delivery is truly heart wringing.

The songs all masterfully set up the dance routines which also move the story forward as no other dance numbers in the history of Broadway seem able to do. There is a re-occurring theme in the three Fred and Ginger dance duets. Most everyone recognizes the hopping waltz step appearing in each routine but the hauntingly beautiful choreography of "Never Gonna Dance" also repeats the `learning to walk' intro to "Pick Yourself Up" but this sultry and sentimental reprise is a bluesy butterfly metamorphised from the earlier number. The piece finishes with Lucky and Penny headed towards the door just as they ended the first two dances, but this time Lucky halts at the threshold unable to follow Penny.

With all good musical comedies guy gets girl and Fred and Ginger sing interlaced renditions of "Just The Way You Look" and "A Fine Romance" finishing and fading out just as they kiss. Which reminds me that in the middle of the film we see Fred and Ginger's very first screen kiss (after 5 movies together). And no one can sell the effects of that blissful moment better than the beautiful and intensely thrilled Ginger Rogers in a dress and body to die for.

If you were unhappy or depressed when you sit down to watch this film you will feel, at the end, at least for a little while, as if you too could dance on clouds.