Me, Myself and Irene (shorten into MMI) has some particularly offending themes, particularly on little people, albinos and even Woody Allen. MMI starts off with a whack, when Charlie Baileygates got promoted as a Rhode Island officer, gets married with a girl he loved, then unexpectedly things go haywire when Charlie had a fight with a limo driver and few years later, Layla, Charlie's wife, dumps him with three kids which eventually ends up as foul-mouthed-rocket-scientist-geniuses. The consequence; after years of "just-forget-it-lifes-gonna-be-better-if-you-persevere" attitude which had taken toll on his credibility as an officer, Hank Baileygates invades Charlie's private equilibrium and all heck goes loose. The remarkable thing is Hank would "pop out" whenever Charlie leaves an oppression/provokation unchecked. Irene Waters (played by Renee Zellweger),a witness involved in a corruption scandal, became both Charlie and Hank's object of desire. The cool part; watching both characteristics trying to woo her heart and leaves Irene to figure "who-the-heck-is-who" and vice versa.
Jim Carrey in his first hour looks promising, but as another hour comes till the end of the movie, most of his jokes didn't work much, in fact when Charlie and Hank's intolerance of each other goes till a peak, Carrey's actions just falls flat, leaving audiences feeling "oh...haha..." and then there's the end of Carrey's "show". However, unlike Carrey's previous "one-man-shows" like The Truman Show, The Mask, Ace Ventura 2, the other casts gets the spotlight too. Charlie's three brilliant "Chris-Rock-meets-Albert-Einstein" sons are just mind-numbing, their crude dialogues would corrupt any "goody-two-shoes" on the spot (my fav: GERMAN ON CHOPPER!!), other two characters that seems unsignificant, Irene and "Whitey" gets the flow going and last but not least, one shocking little girl that'll give you a concrete proof NOT TO SHOW R-RATED MOVIES TO CHILDREN! Oh, not least too, is the hilarious directions of the Farrely's!
Overall, MMI isn't much of Carrey's best, and falls short of expectations, but weird, since it's too cruel for anything lower than four stars. I suggest borrow or rent, otherwise if you're loaded with cash, a must buy. And...guaranteed to please any Renee Zellweger fan like me!