My review is about the blu-ray.  Other reviewers assume that there is no difference between the live performances, the HD simulcasts, and the blu-ray set.  As a  result, the question concerning technology in the production itself, the use of video projection, triggered by the singers rather than "pre-shot," to use Lepage's word, and the cinematic nature of much of staging, not just the 43 plank "machine" Lepage invented, is entirely missed.  If you watch the blu-ray, you are watching a film of a production meant to be seen, eventually, on film.  I admire this production for thinking about cinema without entirely thinking it through.  I know that sounds ridiculous.  All I can say is read <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1844673448">In Search of Wagner (Radical Thinkers)</a> There you will find a trenchant analysis of Wagner's own interest in technology and phantasmagoria, or what were then the equivalent of special effects. (See, for example: ""And it is precisely the religious Parsifal that makes use of the film-like technique of scene-transformation that marks the climax of this dialectic: the magic work of art dreams its complete antithesis, the mechanical work of it."
Theodor Adorno, In Search of Wagner, 109)." Lepage is a brilliant special effects filmmaker who nevertheless imagines that technology is something that exists apart from live performance, that one can use in the service of live performance rather than dictate what happens in live performance. As a technology that has invaded, as it were, Lepage's production from the start and to which it is also destined form the start, film is not secondary but primary.  It is much like Alberich's ring.  Lepage has made a Faustian bargain, if I may call up a different opera based on a different legend, with cinema. But the blu-ray is definitely worth the price of admission.  This blu-ray set is by far and way the most watchable of all filmed productions of the Ring.  The camerawork and editing are so good you don't even notice them. And this blu-ray is technically superior in terms of sound and image quality as well.  It has moved the bar up many, may steps.  Levine's Rheingold and Walkure is stunning.  So is the singing and the acting.  I have never seen a better filmed opera delivered to blu-ray, including other blu-ray releases of Met HD simulcasts.  If you are interested in the way Wagner's leitmotif method of composition became the template for Hollywood cinema soundtracks, many of them composed by German and Austrian emigres, you will be especially interested in the way this blu-ray ends up, no doubt unintentionally, turning the music into an incredibly amazing film soundtrack.  See  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0826499023">Composing for the Films (Continuum Impacts)</a>  This blu-ray is an historic event.  By all means, see it.