If a producer wanted to remake "Death Wish" (the ultimate vigilante movie) in today's terms, he could go one of two ways: Either overexploit the violence, or redo the movie with another type of lead character: perhaps one that is softer, more believable in the title role. Jodi Foster has both characteristics. A chameleon of sorts, she is equally adept at playing both sides of the coin. In "The Brave One" (inappropriately named, by the way), Foster tries to foster more than just a revenge motive for removing the bad guys. Instead, she gets caught up chasing her own stoic shadow from vengeful murder to murder.

From a purely watch able standpoint, the movie moves along with an evenness and steady pace. It is punctuated by some hinky overdub dialog by Foster as she underlines and bolds certain points to the audience. The first viewing of this movie may or may not evoke the feelings the director tried to convey, but a repeat reviewing will more than likely be seen as slightly annoying on several aspects. Foster's character maintains a pronounced sadness all throughout the performance, easily enough actable, but doesn't carry the depth to fully motivate the viewer into a real sense of empathy. Far too many times, Foster is put into scenes where tragedy forces her hand, but of course, in her hand is a gun.

Terrence Howard is stupendous, however, and should command top dollar fees for his next acting experiences based on what he conveyed in the "Brave One." The interplay of the two is understated, and is full of eyebrow raising and lowering. Both souls are connected by the necessity to put to rest the evil that poisons each persons home town. One defends the city, the other defends her sanity. The end result is a movie that won't leave you feeling good, but will probably define for watchers what many crime victims feel they could do, at least initially after a brutal attack.

The resolution for fighting extreme evil is often to combat it with an equal bluntness and disregard for rules.

Jeff Feezle of Macafeez