While it is certainly not for young children, older teens and adults will get a real kick out of "Wizards".  Set in a post-apocalyptic world wrought by radiation due to a nuclear holocaust, most humans have  died, and the population consists mainly of elves, fairies, dwarves, and  then the mutants.  The world is in danger from the threat of technology,  brought upon by the evil wizard, Blackwolf.  It is up to his brother, the  comical, yet good hearted wizard, Avatar, to stop him.  Joining Avatar in  his quest are Weehawk, chief of a tribe of warrior elves, Elenor, fairy  princess of the land of Montagar, and Peace, a former assassin of  Blackwolf's (formerly known as Necron 99) who changes his ways and fights  against the threat of technology.  The WWII references abound, and there  are many more adult-oriented references throughout.  It dares to go where  cartoons usually do not, making allusions to sex, prostitution, religion,  and there's even a rather racist Vietnam reference if you can catch it.  However, I still highly recommend "Wizards", because in all it's  brashness, it deserves to be seen.  What the animation lacks in quality, it  more than makes up for in imagination.  It's quite funny, and it also  delivers some unexpected twists.  I personally really like the way it was  done.  The music really seems to fit the overall style of it, and the  wonderful character designs and voice acting really pulls it all together.  I definetely recommend it to anyone searching for something creative and  different, and I'm sure any fan of cult classics will definetely want to  check it out.  However, I stress the importance of having an open mind.  I  think those who are more open to controversial subject matter will be able  to better enjoy it, with all it's dark humor and it's alternative-type  feel.  I think it is something that everyone should see at least once.  It  deserves more credit than it has been given, and I think that it will  really make people stop and think about our world, and about themselves.