So Region 1 DVD friday fans are really being ripped off here. There is already an Australian and British disc of "Friday the 13th" available with a special made documentary on the production of the movie with interviews with Sean Cunningham, Adrienne King, Harry Crosby and Manfredini and others. You can order it TODAY!

To make matters even worse for Region 1 fans - THERE IS A COMMENTARY TRACK FROM SEAN S. CUNNINGHAM INCLUDED ON THIS RELEASE which is NOT included in this box set release? WHY NOT? It already exists.

I have a copy of this disc (purchased when I was recently in Australia). I suggest you look into possible ways in which you can aquire this disc. Unlike the US where the discs are released through Paramount, the Australian distributor is Warner Home Video (I think - have to check).

For serious Friday fans this Region 4 or 2 purchase is essential. The following info is taken from amazon.co.uk

"Friday the 13th may be the least worthy of all horror "classics", but it's still nice to have an edition that (unlike earlier video releases) offers a 16x9-enhanced 1.85:1 restored image and a healthy dose of extras. The making of the movie is covered by a 20-minute "Return to Crystal Lake" featurette and a commentary track with input from many of the creatives (Cunningham, composer Harry Manfredini, stars Adrienne King and Betsy Palmer, writer Victor Miller). Some anecdotes get repeated, but there's a lot of solid background material."

(...)

Don't get ripped off - by all means by the Paramount box set if you're a die-hard fan, but you cannot afford to be without the commentary from Cunningham. Why did they shaft us Region 1'ers. Without the US support Jason would never have become the titan he is today.

NB. You'll need a DVD player and television capable of displayed PAL video to watch these features. I was really surprised to see that these important extras were to be excluded from the box set.

You can thank me once you've ordered this DVD and completed your FRIDAY collection.

AND WHY NO 3-D on PART III? That was the best thing about that film. PARAMOUNT - you suck and you're really shafting the fans of this series. Is it because you hold us in contempt or you just DON'T CARE?

Fu-fu-fu-yu-yu-yu