I have just about every album on vinyl CD's and videos of the Beatles including the Yellow Submarine on standard DVD with a good picture & sound and as for the Blu Ray version is restored in digitally 4 K by hand , frame by frame in stereo and 5.1 sountrack that looks and sounds way better and comes in a nicely Blu Ray cover with four animated drawings the artist use of John + Paul + George and Ringo also animated stickers of the fab 4 & characters including the Yellow Sudmarine and booklet introduction by John Lsssetter : Chief creative officer for Walt Disney & Pixar animation also comments pictures and drawings of the making with special features :

Audio Commentary track by John Coates with additional contribution by Heinz Edelmann .
Featurette " Mod Odyssey " and original Theatrical trailor .
Three storyboarded sequences including two not used in the final film & Original pencil drawings .
Behind the scenes photos & Interviews with the crew and vocal talents .
Collectable booklet that dives behind the scenes of The Yellow Submarine animated adventure .

tracks : intro music & orchestral by George Martin -  Yellow Submarine - Eleanor Rigby - Love You To - A Day in the Life - All Together Now - When I'm 64 - Only a Northen Song - Nowhere Man - Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds - Think for Yourself - Sgt Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band - With A Little Help from my Friends - All You Need is Love - Baby You're a Rich Man - Hey Bulldog - I'ts All Too Much - All Together Now .

This animated feature film was Theatrical released in 1968 and won New York film critics circle award the same year & Nominated the best Hugo award in 1969 also Nominated a Grammy Award for the best original score written for the best picture o a television special in 1970 & now restored and presented in the original aspect ratio of 1:66-1 Blu Ray (1080) English DTS HD Master Audio 5.1 Surround - English PCM Stereo and English original mono .
Feature movie approx 1 hour and 30 minutes long and Region Free .

Languages are German dolby surround 5.1 & Italian dolby surround with a few subtitles : English - German - Dutch - French - Italian - Spanish - Portuguese - Sweedish - Danish - Noerwegian - Finnish - Polish as for Commentary in English Dolby Stereo & Hard of hearing : English & German .

I don't know if this Blu Ray copy of The Yellow Submarine is going to be a one time special o limited edition either way is a must have for any fan .