Summerslam 2002 was easily one of the best Summerslams of all time. Every match on the card was decent. Here are the matches and how I thought they were:

1. Kurt Angle vs Rey Mysterio 8/10 Perfect opener for this event. It was filled with fast paced action and got the crowd on its feet.
2. Ric Flair vs Chris Jericho 7/10 I don't get why everybody thinks this match isn't that good.  Yeah, there were a good amount of chops and a few of the moves got a little messed up, but other than that, it was a very decent match. 
3. Edge vs Eddie Guerrero 8.5/10 Excellent match.  Nice Bumps taken and overall, a great wrestling match.
4. Tag Team Title Match Booker T and Goldust vs the Un-Americans 6.5/10 Pretty good match.  I think this match is a little overrated. All these men are great superstars and very talented, but I really think they could of put on a better match. It was still better than the average Raw match and certainly watchable.
5. Intercontinental Title Match RVD vs Chris Benoit 9/10 Awesome Wrestling Match.  Technical, High Flying, Brawling, everything. I'm just letting anyone know that if you saw their match on Raw a few weeks before this, its not quite as good as that one.  I thought their raw match topped this one because, believe it or not, there were some slow parts in this match. Even though it didn't top the raw match, it still lived up to the hype.
6. Undertaker vs Test 8/10 This was another match that is very underrated.  Many say that having 2 big men in a match will never be that good. But the Undertaker and Test proved them wrong. And when the Undertaker stood on the turnbuckle after the match and held up the American flag, every fan rose to their feet. It was a classic moment in wrestling history.
7. Non-Sanctioned match Triple h vs Shawn Micheals 10/10 This match blew me away. I'll admit, I'm a Triple h fan. But I didn't care that he lost. It was great to see Shawn in the ring again.  He proved that he can still be the show stopper. This match might not only be the best match of 2002, but the best match of all time.
8. WWE Championship match The Rock vs Brock Lesnar 9/10 Great Main Event. Not only was it a great match, but the cheering shifted back and forth. Sometimes for the Rock and sometimes for Lesnar. It really was a great match. 
If you are going to buy this pay per view and can watch DVD's, buy this on DVD. It has a ton of extras. But no matter what, buy this pay per view. You will not be dissapointed.