The same old stuff that has been going on for years. What was different about it? Maybe filming in Bath in the UK and the done up town scene like it was India. Thats about IT! My wife made me watch it and I regret I did. 3 and a half hours of over dramatic nonsense which makes the Titanic look bad (sarcastic). The performances were mixed. Amitabh as usual was fantastic. But not so for the rest. SRK acting as his silly self once again. Jugal was alright. Uday Chopra should stop overacting period. The ladies were ok. Overall bearable. Aish hardly had a role and the reason for her suicide and the suicide scene was just laughable at best. But the overdramatized Amrish Puri scene confronting his daughter (Preeti Jhangiani) about Jimmy Shergill was straight out of a Bollywood menu was so silly, I had to leave the room. Im sure u have seen that in numerous movies. Over dramatic sequences are part of 80% of Bollywood movies and Zee TV soap operas.

And not to mentioned the agonizing music and the long drawn mediocre and boring dance sequences that found the fast forward button everytime they started.  Seriously, Jatin Lalit should stop making music. They seem to compose like they are in a time warp. All their songs sound pretty one dimensional,  (Anu Malik anyone?) and are so long, that u just cant help wondering what they gain by elongating and dragging the movie by these long songs. I mean, do they think themselves to be such good music composers, that they can get away with that? And when we have other music directors churning better music that these jokers, they guys seem to live in the 70s. The background music with the was the worst and its almost like they use many of the same canned music in most of the movies they give background music for.  Other than the cinematography which was ok, partly due to the filming in a castle in the UK, the direction leaves much to be desired. The story line infact started out promising, but it got progressively worse. I think the directors and script writers lost direction midway and the last hour became pretty predictable. A hashed up ending, that we see in a lot of movies. Im not going to give a description or what the movie was about as a lot of the reviewers have already done so.

 Yes Im not a big Bollywood, fan partly due to the reason I just cant stand 80% of the movies. But thank God for newer directors (movie and music) out there, I still have hope for the industry.