The movie pulse review above is a little too short sighted to understand why people would enjoy this film. Their review is more like the kind of arrogant criticism you'd expect from these self proclaimed critics
. Movies are enjoyable for a number of reasons. First you have what some consider high art. A lot of times although these films are original and at times can have great imagination they normally are not very fun to watch and are generally boring. You also have your big blockbuster movies with huge budgets. Hollywood movies that put millions of dollars into everything from actors to their catering. Once and a while hollywood can hit the mark and many of us can name off a few films in this category we enjoy but, we all know that big dollars do not always equal entertainment nor a good film. Then you have your independant and B-films.  Films with smaller budgets that do what they can with what they have. In terms of fun and entertainment they are much the same as the high budget films (hit and miss). Lastly and more to the point we have campy films. Some are not intended to be and some are. What can generally be agreed upon is that when we watch  movies such as these we don't watch them because they'll win some sort of award (how shallow is it to only enjoy films because they can or have won an oscar). No, we watch these movies(and movies in general)for their intended reason...To be entertained and have a good time. This seems to be what moviepulse has forgotten. Their review is more intent on picking apart the film for it's lack of "Academy Award" standards in which all films must apparently shoot for in order to get good reviews. They forgot to tell us if the movie was fun watch. They neglected to say if there were audiences out there that found this film enjoyable. their review is unbias and narrow minded.

This gets me to my point. The spice girls movie is by no means an award winner but if you enjoy campy films that will make you laugh and leave you feeling entertained when they are over then give this movie a chance. Of course this was a Spice Girl vehicle. They were at the height of their popularity. Anything they would have done would have been seen that way. The movie resemble the Beatles "a hard days night"? Well try and find a film that does not pilfer from another. A lot of times films a slammed because they resemble another film. Most movies are this way and few films are so fresh and new as to boast complete originality. I own this movie and watch it regularly. Many of my friends did not want to watch it. They had the same "noses turn up" view of this movie as moviepulse yet after one viewing they not only liked it but have seen it multiple times after the fact. if you like the spice girls then it's a no brainer but if you don't I still recommend this film. It's a riot and you'll have  great time watching it.