I wanted to watch this movie because  I like Christian Bale and had heard so much about Frances McDormand's perfomance. I had previously seen the director's film High Art (I enjoyed the film style of High Art, but not the message. However, Patricia Clarkson's turn as a glamorous German lesbian is fantastic.)

 The set-up: a Harvard graduate psychiatrist returns to California to begin his  residency at a mental facility. He plans to stay at his mother's house in Laurel Canyon with his brainiac girlfriend. The house is supposed to be vacated so that he can work and his fiancee can finish her dissertation. However, his mother, a highly successful record-producer, is still living in the house, trying to finish an album with her boyfriend's band. The psychiatrist son, who resents his unorthodox, lonely upbringing, tersely agrees to remain in the house until he and said girlfriend can find another place. The mother is well aware of her son's anger but feels helpless to fix the situation, so she ignores it. The son's girlfriend, a scientist, finds herself attracted to the open and creative lifestyle of her boyfriend's mom and the merry musicians. Finally, the psychiatrist finds himself attracted to another doctor at the hospital.

  I really enjoyed this movie because of the perfomances. Frances McDormand does a brilliant job as the perfect producer who is an imperfect mother. Much was made of the sexuality of the role, but her perfomance was so natural it all works. Christian Bale is remarkable as this son who judges his only parent harshly for her failings. He  rigidly organizes his life only to realize that life is fluid. Alessandro  Nivola, Kate Beckinsale, and Natashcha McElhone have different accents and are wonderful as well. The music "scene" depictions are tremendous also(It is like watching a party you want to go to!). It is all very sensual.

 My only criticism is the script function of Kate Beckinsale's  character as some innocent led astray. Even with the son' priggishness, I don't see his fiancee as a nubile object waiting to be defiled. That said, good movie.