'Peter Pan' is one of those classic books, like 'Alice in Wonderland', that everyone knows and almost no one has read.  Those familiar with Barrie's Peter Pan have bemoaned the lack of a cinematic adaptation of the original tale that didn't hide, alter or reject many of the story's deeper and darker allusions of childhood.  The execrable 'Hook' and Disney's overly-sanitised version of Barrie's classic only borrowed the characters and climactic plot-points.  P.J. Hogan has adapted the story to film for the first time without apology; at last we are exposed to the real Peter Pan with all its wickedness and violence and sadness.  This is a beautiful film, made with great love for its subject, and the slight alterations to the script are minimal and not at all out of accord with J.M. Barrie's intent.
Don't be surprised if much of the film startles: 'Peter Pan' was not just about a boy who never grew up, it was about the need for maturity, the benefits of growing up and the subsequent regret that comes with the loss of innocence.  The blossoming sexuality of Wendy is in the original story, even more overtly than in the film.  She is the real center of the story; a heroine as adventurous as Peter, but the one who goes through the true catharsis of adolescence.  Peter is a boy who can never reveal his deep loneliness, and it was not by accident that Barrie chose a boy as his title's hero.  Peter is not a boy who can't grow up: he is a boy who refuses to grow up, and unlike Wendy who is able to stand more firmly on her own feet, he is doomed to a life of solitude and lovelessness.
These are Lost Boys who kill pirates, girls who kiss boys, boys who are sometimes brats and sometimes heroes.  Barrie often commented that what he admired most in children was not their precociousness, but their sense of anarchy.  Children are selfish, self-centered and often cruel; it's only when they grow up do they understand their roles in a bigger world, and break out of that selfishness into someone capable of compassion.
The film is just wonderful, a great script, BEAUTIFUL performances from all the children and adults, spectacular special effects and a great night out.  Don't hide your kids from it; they'll be much better for it.