I saw Eden Log recently for the first time, and was so into it I almost immediately ordered a copy on DVD. While I understand that the Blu-ray version has technical shortcomings, my review here relates to the content of the film, both thematically and stylistically.

I don't want to give much away, because Eden Log does a great job of slowly unraveling a mysterious story over the course of the film. Toward the end when most things become revealed, I really had that "Aha!" moment you get when you realize a great puzzle was being untangled all throughout a story, and the clues that were there all along you were only vaguely understanding. For this reason I think the film merits multiple viewings.

The style is very dark and "dingy", fairly cyberpunk, but from the sub-sub-sub-basement of a futuristic kind of world perspective. If you've read the Japanese manga series Blame! you will find many similarities to Eden Log. Likewise, the movie borrows from the stylings of French BD sci-fi comics, and this is a great thing, as not enough films do! Perhaps similar in a sense to Immortal by Enki Bilal, which of course itself was his adaptation of his own BD comic.

Eden Log definitely is operating on several levels, in addition to the science fiction story itself. It is concerned with the environment and the planet, and how we as humans interact with and seek to control it, and create a feedback loop of negative consequences. It also has themes relating to immigration theory and nationalism/citizenship, and what some people do in order to pursue the dream of being a productive member of a "free" and prosperous society -- when in reality this is not what they are necessarily signing up for upon applying for citizenship. Other interesting themes abound as well, and because of all these subtleties I think this movie appeals more to an intellectual crowd.

Stylistically, I am extremely impressed by what the filmmakers pulled off with a presumably relatively small budget. Camera work, set design, and costume design are all EXCELLENT, and all serve to illustrate the "darkness" of the world of Eden Log. I am impressed by the acting, and even creature design. The movie is very dark, the colors very muted and affected, and the camera work jarring -- but it's all very intentional, and the overall effect I found very appealing.

So, maybe Eden Log won't appeal to your average Joe looking for a generic sci-fi horror action thriller -- but that's not the intent of this movie. I'd call it hard science fiction of a very artistic/stylized fashion, with intellectual social themes as an undercurrent. If you like artsy, gritty, dark, heady science fiction, absolutely give this movie a chance.