Okay, who decided to cast Jill St. John as a Bond girl?  Was someone on drugs (it was early 70s, after all)?  She is just about the worst and less glamorous Bond girl.  I'm throwing PC-ness out the window - Bond girls must be exciting and intriguing and beautiful.  She is none of these.  What a yawn.  And that American accent!  Eew.  Come to think of it, Tanya Roberts was a rather wretched American Bond girl, too.  And Grace Jones? Excuse me, Grace Jones?!?  And, like, totally, aw-ma-gawd, Denise Richards, like, you know, a nuclear scientist!  See the trend? They are all Americans.  Now the French make nice Bond girls (Carole Boquet was gorgeous, and Sophie Marceau had that sad yet beautiful quality).  The Brits, too, such as Honor Blackman (Goldfinger).  Daniella Blanchi (an Italian beauty queen) in From Russia with Love had an exotic, captivating glamour.  My favorite, however, is the classically-trained Diana Riggs, who was tragic but so wonderful in On Her Majesty's Secret Service.
Why this Bond girl discussion?  Well, I have a theory - as the Bond girls go, so goes the Bond movie.  Jill St. John was nothing special in Diamonds are Forever, and the film is easily the least of the Connery Bond films.  Roberts and Jones are in A View to a Kill, and that is easily the least of the Moore Bond films.  I wish Diamonds are Forever was a better film, but it isn't.  It's just too Americanized.  Jill St. John is pretty awful, with her 70s hairdo and dreadful clothing and bad acting to boot!  And Jimmy Dean?? That sausage-and-burger country singer?  Did he wander onto the wrong set or something?  And Bond gets pushed around by some Bambi/Thumper chick with a biggo afro 'do.  Come oooon!  Is this some Blaxploitation film or something?  By this film, the Bond films had lost all their glamour and exoticism.  What a pity.  At least, Connery is good-old-reliable himself, but nothing else in this film really clicks. I'll give the film 4 stars just for Connery!
I hope the next Bond film is decent.  But my above theory does not point in Halle Berry's favour (she's American).  On the other hand, she IS an Academy Award winner and she is quite a knock-out, so we shall see.  But I must say, I have some misgivings about the title Die Another Day.  It sounds rather... silly.