I'm a huge fan of The Dark Crystal (it and Labyrinth are my favourite movies of all time ever) so I was of course thrilled when a special collector's edition was released.  However, I'm disappointed in the "features".
Pretty much everything on the disc is the same as what's on the non-collector's edition.  The few new things to me aren't worth it.  Character Illustrations and storyboards are nice and all.  I was excited about "The Mithra Treatment", which I thought was the original print of the movie...where the characters speak their own language and not English (you see some of this in the deleted scenes on the disc).  It is not.  It is simply screens and screens of Henson's original notes.  Interesting yes... but I'd rather have that in a booklet, not in screens on my TV.  Then again, the fact that it was only 1 disc should have tipped me off.
The packaging is nice, the replica of Henson's notepad detailing the original ideas which would become the movie is very interesting... but in my opinion, not worth the $35 or whatever I just shelled out for this.  
I'm very disappointed in the amount of "exclusives" on this DVD.  The original print of the film would have been *amazing* to see, to see how Henson and Co. originally viewed the film.  Maybe some new interviews with some of the other players (Oz and Froud for sure) as they look back on the movie, its box office disappointment but almost cult success.  Or even a nifty booklet with a lot of these extras in it.  I hate sitting in front of my TV trying to read screens of information or look at drawings which I'd rather have on paper so I can see the detail better.  
So to make a long story short... if you like the movie, get the regular edition and not collector's.  If you're a fanatic like me, bought the re-issued World of the Dark Crystal book and even considered shelling out a few hundred for the original pressing... and somehow MISSED buying the first DVD release of this movie, well then this is probably for you.  But if you already own the DVD that came out a few years ago... I'd think very heavily on it, unless you are a fanatic.  Even as a fanatic, you probably won't find any new material here (especially if you own the aforementioned book), and I'd save the $35.  Or try to recoup some of your "loss" and sell your other DVD somewhere (like I'm going to try and do).  I hope that if Henson and Co. decide to do a Collector's Edition of Labyrinth they put a little more work into it.  I have to say, I'm disappointed with how the kids have carried on Jim's legend.