I'll say it again, I was not expecting this... THANK GOD!

Now, I'm not going to re-hash a synopsis that other better reviewers have done. Reviews which I am thankful for, since I went in knowing it wasn't going to be a goofy comedy that you'd normally expect from Will Ferrell. But, thankfully, this film presented more than I was ready for. The way the director, Dan Rush, had slowly let the story unfold, like the slow rumble of a jet on takeoff. Soft at first, then builds up a crescendo that consumes you, then gently fades away. That's the effect this movie had on me.

To be fair, I must admit I usually don't like watching movies where you know "something" is going to happen. From the beginning of the movie, I could see a snowball effect happening, and was turned off by it. But, somewhere in the middle, there was something unexpected that I can't quite put my finger on. Maybe it was Will Ferrell's portrayal of Nick Halsey, a man who knew he hit rock bottom, knew he had to do "something", but at the same time, didn't know what to do (something I can relate to). Maybe it was his relationship with Kenny, a neighborhood kid who just happened to ride his bike into the chaos of Nick's life.  Maybe it was the interaction with Samantha, his pregnant, just moved in, neighbor that also gets caught up in Nick's snowball. Well, whatever it was, it was well worth it.

Also, I do agree with other reviewers in comparing Will Ferrell with Bill Murray in Lost in Translation (another great film that caught me by surprise). Both movies were very simple in plot, but just spoke volumes in "real people" emotions, with absolutely great performances. And hopefully, just like how Lost in Translation made people notice Scarlett Johansson, this movie will make people notice Rebecca Hall (yes, I know she was in Vicky Cristina Barcelona, but I didn't see that one).

So, if you're looking for a movie with heart, and outstanding performances from Will Ferrell and Rebecca Hall, go ahead, just click on the "rent" button and stream it. It's only an hour and a half.