Jet Li is an accomplished martial artist, having won 5 consecutive all-China tournaments earlier in his career. In addition, he has top-quality style and an impressive screen presence. Fortunately, these qualities are being recognized by the film industry -- and this is a major  breakthrough for the martial arts genre. The last martial arts hero on the  screen was Bruce Lee, who, though admired universally for his exceptional  talent, his skills in acting and fight-scene choreography, and his screen  presence, was never taken too seriously by Western film-makers (his only  break in the industry was Enter The Dragon -- certainly a fantastic movie,  but not enough to open the doors for him as they should have been). It  looks like the doors may open wide for Jet Li. He may well be the new Bruce  Lee, now with all the recognition and glory that his predecessor had been  denied.
Li's martial arts skills are showcased nicely in Fist of Legend.  Li is thrilling to watch -- he's a master of many forms and has great  aptitude with a variety of weapons. The plot is a little bit thinner--and  the dialog a little cornier--than typical Western action-thrillers (though  it does have more subtlety than typical martial arts flicks). 
The basic  storyline of the movie is that Chen Zhen (played by Li) during his stay in  Japan as a student, learns of his master's murder. He returns to a  Japanese-occupied Shanghai, discovers that the guy who supposedly defeated  his master in battle is really a wimp, and tracks down the real plot behind  his master's death -- all the while inflaming the Japanese authorities who  are determined to bury the investigation. Many awesome brawls must be  fought along the way.
This movie is probably does the best among all of  Li's films in showing Li's martial arts prowess. His recent movie Romeo  Must Die is a much more polished Western movie -- better plot, better  dialog -- but the martial arts in Romeo Must Die always border on the  peculiar (though very entertaining). By contrast, Fist of Legend gives the  martial arts fan what he/she is looking for in  a martial arts film.