This is a beautiful, haunting film that follows the lives of eight children from Calcutta who's parents work in the red light district.  A woman photographer who went to India and chose to live in the red light district to photograph it ends up befriending the children.  Though unplanned, she answers the children's requests to teach them photography and ultimately works to get them out of the district.  It is almost certain that if she does not, the girls will become prostitutes themselves, the boys also participating in illegal activities and little or no hope that they will ever get out of the vicious cycle.

Their journey is one of strength, hope, understanding, perserverence and ultimately, love.  Though the children's situation is sad and unbearable, in the end, there is hope.  And it shows how art can lift the spirit and change lives forever.

I want to address something that one reviewer who gave the movie two stars mentioned.  He/she said that Zana Briski promised hope and didn't deliver.  The reviewer also said that there was nothing mentioned about who owned the copyright to the photographs of the children, and that they were being exploited.  Neither of these comments are true.

Ms. Briski noted several times throughout the film that the proceeds of the sales of the photos was to go toward the children's education.  More information on this is below.

*NOTE:  If you don't want to know what happens, just trust the above comments and stop reading here*

Ms. Briski goes more in depth in the special features sections to reveal that these children have been promised whatever education they desire, including university education, and it was to be funded through the profits of the movie as well as the continued sale of their photographs in any form.

By the end of the film, Ms. Briski (who worked extremely hard to help these margainalized children) had indeed gotten several of the children out of the brothels.  If you continue on to view the followups in the special features section, you will find that all of the children were offered opportunities to an education, although one girl had not accepted the offer at the end of the filming of special sections.  These choices were left up to the children and their families.

Zana Briski has now founded an organization called "Kids With Cameras" that manages the funds raised from the sales of the children's images, as well as the film.  So much money has now been raised that not only are the children in the film offered a full education at university, she is in the process of opening a school specifically for the children of the red light district.  (Due to their parents engaging in criminal activities, most schools will not accept them).  Additional funds were used to fund similar photography projects with margainalized children around the world.

The children of Calcutta are fully aware of what the money is being used for.  They are all for it.

Therefore I am disputing the facts of the poster below.  All of the evidence of the love and care offered these children is included in the DVD.