I have been familiar with Lebowski since it was first previewed on TV and in theaters in '98, but up until June of this year hadn't seen the film.  For some insane reason, I didn't think it was going to be good.  I was wrong, man.  
The film was chosen by the instructor of my Interanalytical Writing course for the class to view and write a paper on.  Our purpose was to compare "The Dude" to the traditional hero or "outlaw" hero, using two corresponding essays from our text.  Its more fun than it sounds.
The film itself is very unique.  Bridges plays Jeff "The Dude" Lebowski, a lazy, unemployed, pot smoking, White Russian sipping, Bowler, leftover from the hippie generation.  One day the Dude is met at home by two thugs who mistake him for a millionaire (the Big Lebowski) who's wife owes a lot of money to their boss.  The thugs dunk the Dude's head in the toilet and urinate on his favorite rug that "ties the room together" - Not cool.  Dude takes his "rug problem" to the Big Lebowski (BL), who gives him a lecture and sends him away.  The Dude takes it upon himself to pick out a rug from the BL's mansion on the way out.
Next, Bunny, the BL's young, porn star, wife is supposedly kidnapped and the BL summons the Dude to take the "ransom" to the "Nihilist" kidnappers who are holding her.  The Dude is aided and hindered (mostly hindered) by his loyal pal, Walter (Goodman), a Vietnam vet with a short temper, love for bowling, obligation to his ex wife's dog, and a refusal to do anything on the Sabbath, since he has converted to Judaism.  The Dude meets many characters along the way such as Jesus the bowler, Maude the feminist/artist and daughter of the BL, Ulee the porn star/Nihilist who has a pet ferret and used to have his own Kraftwerk like band (who have an album called "Autobahn", hmm interesting.), and maybe most importantly, the "Stranger", who appears at the bowling alley bar twice to help the Dude.
I won't reveal anymore specifics in case anyone else has neglected to witness this masterpiece.  I don't understand why viewers compare this to Fargo (1996).  They are totally different movies and Lebowski is much funnier and less dark in my opinion.  The one thing that Lebowski does have in common with Fargo and other films by the Coen Brothers, like Raising Arizona (1987) and O Brother Where Art Thou? (2000) are unique, often unforgettable characters.  Whether it is "Hi" or Leonard Smalls from Raising, Marge or Carl and Gaear (the kidnappers) from Fargo, Ulysses, Pete, or Delmar from O Brother, or The Dude, Walter, and Jesus from Lebowski - You can guarantee they won't leave your mind too soon after meeting them. 
My favorite scene from the BL?  When Walter and The Dude go to question Larry Sellers (the 15 year old son of Arthur Digby Sellers - comatose writer of 156 episodes "The bulk of the series" of "Branded") about the missing money that was in the Dude's car.  Walter begins with a polite questioning that goes nowhere and follows with "Plan B" where he goes outside and using a crowbar, destroys what he thinks is the sports car that Larry bought with the money.  Walter repeatedly yells, "Larry, this is what happens when you F a stranger up the ass!!!"  but  guess what? - its not Larry's car!  Priceless scene****Priceless Movie****Buy it or be very "un-dude".
The DVD has widescreen/full screen options and looks great - Most importantly, it has a 30 min interview with the Coens.