This review is based on an American release DVD version of the film, unnfortunately.  Had I seen this on the big screen, and had I seen it without the editing by U.S. censors, perhaps my experience would have been better.  But I don't want to blame censors either; it would have been better to allow an X rating and show it uncensored than to allow the changes that were made.  The problem was that it wouldn't have made as much money, of course.  And then there would have been the stigma of having an X-rated movie one one's resume for all actors involved, as well ...

This was intended as an antithesis to the late 20th Century self-indulgent "coming-of-age movie," such as most notably Cruise's "Risky Business" (and I think that is in fact the reason for such casting) and as such I can sort of enjoy it.  But the dragging, miserable dialogue, the horrible background music, an attempt at a Hitchcock-like piano, and the overall hackneyed adaptation of a ~ 1920's Viennese novel, all made for a miserable film experience.

The film is generally about the miasma of anxiety and paranoia surrounding the sex act in the late 20th C, and the social and classist ramifications thereof.  While a worthy topic, the execution was weak, esp. in the casting and dialogue.  I think Kidman was pretty good, but her lines were utterly miserable. And Cruise was at his DeNiro-imitator worst. (Really, we only need one DeNiro.)

BTW, all the fluster about the nudity in this film is mostly by mouth-breathers who expected another classic hot Tom Cruise or Nicole Kidman movie.  Recalling the deluge of ads at metro stations and bus stops when this was released, I think most viewers expected a "hot summer movie" where Cruise and Kidman would "sizzle," but they certainly didn't expect realistic nudity. Perhaps a naughty dance scene, or a stripper in it somewhere, but not this kind of nudity, which was clearly not intended to get one's panties wet.) Instead they got a movie that might have helped Cruise and Kidman along with their divorce, and leave viewers (those who actually stayed in the theatre to the bitter end) with a general creepy feeling.  No "Top Gun" experience here!

But as a feller who has enjoyed Kubrick's movies over the years and who looked forward to a chilling, suspenseful experience, I was disappointed.  I am sad he has passed, and I think had he been able to finish this project it would have turned out much better. I will probably never bother to purchase a foreign version so I can see the real movie, but it was a puny tragedy that I had to watch a censored version.