First of all, let me get on the record as never having heard of the Silent Hill videogame franchise before viewing this film.  I went into the film expecting a dark, but potentially formulaic and predictable horror film like many others that studios have released lately.  What I saw was captivating and utterly disturbing...and I mean that as a sincere compliment to the filmmakers.

The story line and exposition are a bit thin in spots, but once the viewer is immersed in the utterly nightmarish world of Silent Hill, the visual imagery is so compelling, the viewer is compelled to forgive these minor complaints.  I do not recall having seen a film before that so deeply resonated with my subconscious boogeymen.  Although the film certainly has its share of gory moments, the true horror is in the awful, hellish creatures that the protagonist experiences in the deserted town of Silent Hill.  From the misshapen, twisted humanoids to the miners to the ever-gruesome Red Pyramid, the creature work is fantastic.

Another component of the film that makes it so utterly disturbing is that there is actually a town in my home state of Pennsylvania that has been largely abandoned for the same reasons as the fictional Silent Hill.  Centralia, PA is also on fire from beneath, and only a handful of residents remain.  Like Silent Hill, Centralia has been essentially decommissioned as a town (the post office even took away its zip code), and the knowledge that such a place actually exists (and that a few residents still live there) lends an air of authenticity to the film that only makes it that much more disturbing.

This is not your average videogame-to-film adaptation (e.g., Mortal Kombat, Resident Evil, Doom) that relies more on the systematic execution of stylized violence between familiar characters than on any real filmmaking prowess.  Gans and his art directors create an alternate universe that is literally the stuff of nightmares.  Frightening, graphic, and disturbing material, but GREAT if you like to be scared senseless every once and awhile.