Hats off of Emma Thompson for her wonderful screenplay.  She did a superb job of putting this story together.  Even though she's a little too old for Elinor's nineteen, she played the part very well indeed.  The Dashwoods,  under the recent loss of the father, lose their beloved Norland to the  half-brother, John.  John and his selfish wife, Fanny quickly take over.  While still in residence, the Dashwoods are introduced to Fanny's visiting  brother, Edward.  He is shy, but witty.  Hugh Grant plays the part well.  Edward and Elinor form an attachment, but Fanny does not approve.  Her only  wish is to get the Dashwoods out of her house and separate ther brother  from Miss Dashwood.  Recieving a cottage by Mrs. Dashwood's cousin, the  family depart Norland to take up residence in the more affordable home,  surrounded by beautiful countryside and sea side.  Elinor we know is  saddened, but she doesn't show it.  Their landlord, Middleton and his  mother-in-law Mrs. Jennings are overly friendly.  Mrs. Jennings is an  annoying busy body who would be better off learning to mind her own  business.  Sometimes I just wanted to slap her and tell her to shut up!  The best thing to come out of the too-friendly landlord is that the  Dashwoods become aquainted with Colonel Brandon.  Marianne's infatutation  with Willoughby, after he rescues her and carries her home after a tumble  developes into an intense love.  Willoughby  appears to feel the same, but  I got the impression while watching that he didn't care for Marianne as  much as he acted.  Willoughby receives some news and must away, in essence  deserting Marianne.  Her hurt at this terrible loss is touching.  And it  takes her a long time to get over it.  I won't go on and summarize ALL of  the events.  Just watch it yourself.  And forget about Elinor and Edward.  Theirs is a nice little story, but I was far more moved by the storyline  involving Marianne and Colonel Brandon (Alan Rickman, playing the Colonel  to perfection).  His love for her is amazing.  He is so patient, unselfish,  quietly loving her as she herself is indifferent to him.  Though not as  dashingly handsome as Willoughby, he has more character and is by far the  better man.  I found him much more likeable.  I loved the moment at  Marianne's sickbed when after Colonel Brandon fetches Mrs. Dashwood,  Marianne says "thank you" to him. Anyone who watches this movie  will guess the outcome.  Jane Austen was all about happy endings and having  the right couples get together.  Love conquers all, it's said, and it  certainly does is this film.  And since "Marianne could never love by  halves", I was very happy with the ending. This is a must see for  anyone in the mood for a romantic film, and especially for Jane Austen  fans.