Engaging, beautifully crafted biography of middle weight boxer Jake LaMotta. The cinematography employs monochrome instead of colour, a great idea because it perfectly mirrors LaMotta's dark persona. LaMotta is depicted here as a confused and paranoid pugilist, the film chronicles his career all the way to the championship belt. DeNiro is so convincing as LaMotta, that I ask myself sometimes if the personality he assumed for Raging Bull was how he must have once been himself. Another amazing thing DeNiro's sheer determination to accurately portray LaMotta in his post-boxing days by adding on fifty pounds! Let's not forget, he trained hard just to achieve the envious physique of LaMotta IN his boxing days! Joe Pesci is perfectly suited to the role of LaMotta's brother and manager, Joey, a quick talking, foul-mouthed but defensive and loyal sibling (and perhaps the only person that is allowed to critcise Jake and get away with it). Cathy Moriarty excels as Vicki LaMotta, Jake's supportive, strong and tolerant wife.

The movie is a classic example of near flawless film-making. Not only is the acting first rate, but the script, cinematography, direction and editing is also of the highest calibre. The screenplay is based on LaMotta's autobiography and of course that gives the dialogue a realistic and true to life feel. Elegant black and white enhances the already brilliant cinematography throughout the film, characterised by picturesque, static camera shots, sharply juxtaposed with the vibrant and kinetic camera work of the fight scenes. The quick, crisp editing to the boxing matches help accentuate the hectic, haphazard ambience of a real duel. Scorsese expertly creates some very tense moments throughout the film, such as the 'You're telling me all these answers Joey, but none of them are the right answer' bit and his use of slow motion at certain moments help convey LaMotta's interpretation of events, such as Vicki giving a normal, everyday goodbye kiss to a departing visitor, a sight that makes Jake immediately think that Vicki may be seeing that person behind his back.

Raging Bull's greatest virtue of all is that it is never boring. Even when watching it again, you'll not come across one boring scene. But than again this only came about because of the sheer talent and skill invested in the acting, direction etc. There are very few films that are first class in all aspects of production. Raging Bull is one of these.