My friends and I are huge Tim and Eric fans. While we are all big fans we don't necessarily fall in love with everything they do just because we love these guys so much. For example, I thought their Chrimbus special was a little weak. I did like it, but I won't go out of my way to watch it. So while I was very excited for Billion Dollar Movie, I was trying not to get my hopes up too much...

With my first B$M viewing, it was watched with just my friend and I on my TV through on demand, and we both liked it a lot, although I must say I was a little underwhelmed, but probably just because it was pretty different from Awesome Show just in terms of characters, story and pacing. This had to be a feature length, structured story. Very unlike their 15 minute Awesome Show, TGTTM episodes and even Chrimbus. So it took a little getting used to. Overall I thought they handled the feature length comedy format extremely well.

My second viewing took place hardly a week after my first viewing (not necessarily a good idea.) This time with my dad, who is a big T&E fan, and the same friend from before. This time I was really lacking enthusiasm about the whole thing. My friend and I were a little worn out on the movie, probably since we had just seen it too recently, and my dad was moderately entertained, although I think he enjoyed it. I began to see now that watching this movie on the TV with a few people was not an ideal viewing method. This is something that TIm and Eric themselves had stated about B$M, and that it had mainly been meant to be viewed in the theatre setting with a lot of people. And this couldn't have been more true.

My third viewing took place at a theatre in San Francisco, where Tim and Eric were screening B$M and followed the screening with a Q&A, so naturally the show was sold out entirely by Tim and Eric fans. And I know not everyone had this privilege, but I must say this was the IDEAL viewing situation for B$M. Every single person in the theatre was into almost every second of the movie, as was my friend (the same friend from before) and I. After the night was over, our eternal love of B$M was set in stone. The two of us consider it to be one of the most quotable comedies we have ever seen, or at least one of our favorites.

So my point is that watching this movie many times, but with a healthy amount of time in between, and with as many friends as you can summon, will most likely result in an extremely positive and highly enjoyable viewing that you won't soon forget.