I may be your typical anime freak, but after the many series I've seen, I must say that this is the only one I've become a 'fanboy' of.  Kosuke Fujishima originally created this series from a gag in his famous manga "You're under arrest!", and this one has turned out to be more famous (though the movie for "You're under arrest!" was not without success).  The story begins with Keiichi Morisato, a student at the fictional Nekomi Institute of Technology; Keiichi hasn't ever had a girlfriend, and the only girl he ever asked out said "I'll think about it if you grow 20 centimeters taller."  One night, Keiichi is sitting in his male-only dorm when the phone rings.  The girl on the other end says that she will be visiting him, and hangs up.  Seconds later, a goddess by the name of Belldandy pops out of Keiichi's mirror and, introducing herself, says that she has been sent to earth to grant any one wish of his, be it wealth or the destruction of the world.  Thinking it's a trick by his upperclassmen, Keiichi thinks for awhile, then says "I wish for a Goddess like you to stay with me forever."  No sooner is his wish granted than his upperclassmen come in and kick him out for having a girl in his room.  After some searching, Keiichi and Belldandy find a Buddhist Temple run by a monk who allows them to stay if they perform chores.  Upon witnessing Belldandy's use of her Goddess powers to do her chores, the monk feels that he is inexperienced, and he decides to go on a pilgrimage to train himself, leaving the Temple in the young couple's hands.  Belldandy quickly becomes Keiichi's girlfriend, and things heat up when two more people move in to the Temple--Belldandy's older sister Urd, who tries to push the couple's relationship along, and Belldandy's younger sister Skuld, who tries to keep them apart.

Fujishima, being a motorist himself, uses motorcycle maintenance and racing as a very effective character development device.  This series, which contains both shoujo (girls' literature) and shounen (boys' literature) elements, revolves around Belldandy's mystical world, Keiichi's life, and their relationship, and is sure to be loved by both males and females alike.  It contains a tiny bit of slightly suggestive imagery, some mild language, and the occasional crude joke, but otherwise it's a good series for families.  I highly recommend the Japanese version with English subtitles, not because the American voice actors are untalented (they're not), but because the translations they're given aren't too good.