After waiting a lifetime it seems to see this film and also having heard the Betty and Judy versions of the soundtrack but never seeing the performances.  I must say that I am so happy to have finally seen Betty Hutton in the newly restored edition of "Annie Get your Gun" and also put to rest any resentment I or anyone else may have had about her playing Annie.  SHE IS BRILLIANT!  Her acting and singing is great and her emotional connection with the charater is really there.  That first time she is in a scene with Howard Keel and he's singing the song "The Girl that I Marry"  whatch Betty's eyes well up when her character Annie realizes she isn't even in the game.  It's great acting for such a fluff part.  Which proves that clearly Betty was the best person to play Annie at the time.  Garland was undoubtedly the greatest film musical star ever committed to film but was unfortunately miscast and I believe knew it and undermined herself to the point of being fired.  In her own mind she must have known it wasn't for her.  At this point in her career she was far too elegant and refined to pull it off and more interested in dramatic things.  Betty on the other hand has that tomboyish quality that was perfect for such a physically demanding role.  I really do believe that Betty did suffer on the set from co-workers who wanted Garland, from stories I've heard over the years from people who worked on the film.  So when she was interviewed by Robert Osborne recently on TCM and mentioned the controversy I was not surprised at all.  I just wish the men involved who are still around today would admit the way they treated her and apologize publicly.  No spoilers here.  Just watch the film and enjoy. With the film newly restored and sound enhanced you can't help but love every bit of this film.  The outtakes are a revelation and further prove MGM made the right decision in casting Betty.  And now a new generation can enjoy Betty at her peak and see what made her one of films greatest musical stars!