Eduardo Ciannelli gives an wonderful, controlled performance as the gangster heavy, Vanning in "Marked Woman".  His studied calm nicely offsets  the histrionics of the hostesses in his employment.  Betty Davis, naturally, is given the most screen time reacting hysterically to her myriad sorrows and complaints.  The rest of the girls just stand around mostly like mannikins in stolen designer dresses.  One of them actually sings for her supper at Club Intimate. These songs prompted me to suggest a name change: Club Irritate. The music is fluff, filler--that doesn't do anything to move the story along.

Overall, the story is quite predictable in some parts.  What makes the film work is the brilliant dialogue and the unobtrusive direction.  The actors are allowed to speak.  The result is nonstop clever banter that never gets too serious until the end.  The courtroom scene gets pretty heavy--particularly when the sentence is handed down to Vanning and his henchmen. The "message" of the film is clearly expressed by the judge during sentencing.  His venomous hatred towards Vanning is made entirely too explicit.
The film presents a low opinion of the entire underground milieu.  A clear distinction is made between the 5 hostesses and Mary Dwights tender, mopey sister Betty. Betty is esentially void from the moment she arrives to surprise her sister.  Typically, the prey is introduced as innocent and sweet before her inevitable fate is sealed.  In this case, it is the terrible realization that her college education has been payed for with dirty money that drives her to act out of character (like her sister). Naturally, it is this behaviour that gets the poor stupid girl killed.  The rest of the film is built around absolving the death of this pure, guileless creature. The film suffers, despite the exellent oratory by Bogie in the courtroom. It requires the sinister machinations of the Vanning gang in order to sustain its corrosive ambience of gloom and terror.  That all gets lost in the courtroom, and the verdict is a foregone conclusion.  Still, the film offers a sharp script and excellent acting by the entire cast. The plot is rather pedestrian and offers no surprises.  The film relies on its actors to make it plausible and for the most part, this is done with the utmost craftsmanship.  4/5