My title and rating are the short version of my opinion of the film. If you want to find out the specific reasons why, read on. If not, go get yourself a Scooby Snack. On second thought, get a Scooby Snack anyway.
As the movie starts, the gang is busy catching another spook-business as usual in other words. However, disagreement about division of credit produces an angry shouting match between Fred, Daphne, and Velma and the members of the gang go their separate ways. Then a call from an amusement park director with a spooky problem brings them all to the same place-and back together as they solve the mystery to save those involved, and themselves.
One of the things I generally dislike about remakes is the tendency of the directors to 'update' things, thus changing the original story drastically and often horribly. In the story, it is especially evident in the characters of Fred and Daphne.
In the original cartoon, Fred comes across as at least as in intelligent as a normal person (despite his famous traps). He is able to laugh at his own mistakes and in spite of his constant use of Shaggy and Scooby as bait,Fred will rescue them if they get into serious trouble. In short, he is the type of man you might be very pleased if your daughter brought home (his involving her in mysteries aside). But in recent remakes, it seems the fashion to portray Fred as an idiot, and in this case, he is also unbearably conceited and missing the gentlemanly silence on sexual matters of his cartoon counterpart. It is an unnecessary assault on the character, to my mind, and one that destroys part of the good-humored carefree-ness of the original series.
The second character to be deconstructed is Daphne. Daphne is famous as the damsel-in-distress of Mystery Inc. (and with some reason). I am not sure she is stupid or entirely helpless, but she is danger-prone. In this film, the makers decided to feminist-ize her character. This upgrade seems to wreak havoc with the story. For one thing, it seems to go along with dumbing down the male characters, which seems to me to violate the ideal of gender equality Also, it happens all at once. Now, before you accuse me of chauvinism, let me point out that a male character also cannot be elevated suddenly to prominence without upsetting matters-the infamous Wesley Crusher, for instance. If change occurs, it must be done carefully, or the other characters will be steamrollered by their counterpart.
While I am referring to the faults, I felt the later scenes drew too close to black magic for viewing. In the original stories, the villain was always a non-supernatural person, who the gang inevitably captured and unmasked. This story seems to plunge into the world of black magic, and I believe it is inappropriate for viewing, even in the context of a villain's plotting.
In conclusion, the basic reason I disliked this film comes down to six words-what was changed from the series. This may sound like the ravings of a die-hard fan to you, but I believe the story, with its decent heroes and kid-friendly plots, was changed for the worst. The very identity of the world seemed changed. In short, to return to my title, I found myself consistently wondering, "Scooby Doo, where are you?"