This was one of the better PPVs that I&#65533;ve seen.  Also, the live audience was incredibly into almost all of the matches.  It makes watching a little bit more interesting when the crowd responds to the action.  The crowd was very into it, and  it was interesting to see how much they responded to some wrestlers.

Right To Censor Vs Too Cool / Rikishi:  When I started watching wrestling, it was in the fall of 2000.  I never saw too much of interest from any of these guys, but the audience was very hot for the action, actively booing RTC and cheering heavily for Rikishi.  The match itself was decent, not worth the audience reaction it got.  I&#65533;ve seen better opening matches. 
X-Pac Vs Road Dogg:  At the time, Road Dogg and X-Pac were members of Degeneration X but were beginning to feud because of an incident in a tag team match where Road Dogg left X-Pac to be taken out.  The match had some entertaining spots, but as a whole it was short and under-whelming.

Mixed Tag Match Val Venis (C) &Trish Stratus  Vs Chyna &Eddie Guerrero: Venis was the Intercontinental Champion, but the stipulation was that if either Chyna or Eddie got the pin (even if it was on Trish), that individual would win the belt.  I was rather bored for this match.  The only thing that interested me was watching Eddie wrestle, but this was fairly blah and ended exactly how you would expect.  
Tazz Vs Jerry "the King"Lawer:  This was junk.  While Lawler is rightly a legend in the business, he fails to entertain in the ring (or as an announcer).  As it stands, this match was more about Tazz and J.R. than it was about the ringwork.

The Kat Vs Terri Thong Stink Face Match:  Even worse than the last match.  This has no place in wrestling as there was no actual wrestling.  
Shane (C)Vs Blackman Hardcore Title Match:  For a man who is not an everyday wrestler, Shane McMahon never fails to entertain when he steps in the ring.  Steve Blackman, amazingly enough, also did a good job at working this match and entertaining.  The big thing about this match is the fall Shane took off a 50ft support tower and the elbow Blackman followed that fall with.

TLC Match Hardys Vs Dudleys Vs Edge&Christian (c) for the Tag Team Championship:  This was the very first Tables, Ladders, and Chairs match.  Like the 4 that I have seen, it was incredible.  The risks that these men take to entertain&#65533;unbelievable.  
Two out of Three Falls Chris Jericho vs Chris Benoit:  This was one of the better feuds that I can remember.  Jericho and Benoit have always worked well together, and had there not been a TLC match, this would have been the match of the night.

Undertaker vs Kane:  The Undertaker took off Kane&#65533;s mask.  Junk match.  
Triple Threat for the WWF Championship - The Rock (c) Vs Kurt Angle vs Triple H:  It&#65533;s hard to get excited for the main event match when it feels like a sideshow the the Kurt Angle/Stephanie McMahon/HHH love triangle.  The match itself was quite good, but it even in the wrestling, it played second fiddle to the story.  Very good match, but it didn&#65533;t quite live up to my expectations (perhaps unreasonably high.
Overall, this is one of the better WWF DVDs that I&#65533;ve seen.