I saw Halloween: Resurrection today and I must say I am impressed! The Halloween saga takes on a new direction after Michael confronts his sister Laurie Strodes played by the talented Jamie Lee Curtis.  Jamie has a camero appearreance for the first 10 minutes confronting her manical brother in a medical institute.  Dispite some spoilers expressed with other reviews, I won't say a word here.  Jamie Lee Curtis gives a fine performance and closes the final chapter for the character she created, Laurie Strode.  At this point, Laurie is a broken down woman who has enough.  Josh, her son is not mentioned in the movie since but his picture is displayed on the wall in Laurie's room.  Since the whole Halloween theme is for Michael to kill off his bloodline, the franchise does fail to mention what happened to Josh or Steven (the baby of Jamie Lloyd, Laurie's daughter in past films).  Laurie also never mentions Jamie, the daughter she gave up.  As a true fan of the Halloween films, I can simply dismiss this oversight. Perhaps, Laurie did not want anyone to know she was alive in Haddonfield when she fled to California as described in the previous installment, H20?  Most likely, the actor that played Josh will might return or his death will be mentioned in future sequels.
In Resuurection, we find Michael returning to his stomping grounds of Haddonfield, IL on Halloween.  At this point in the francise, Michael is known as a "legend", one of the nation's worst serial killers in history.  The Myers place is the town's haunted house abandonned what we are to assume from the last family that lived there (halloween 6 ).  The Myers house is equipped with internet cameras and wires for a live broadcast on Halloween night. 6 students are to explore the house with head gear equipped with cameras and lights to broadcast on the internet.  This quick money scheme as Michael goes trick or treating in the house knocking off each person in the house in the most creative and gory ways. The plot is simple and storyline is simple.  The movie gives you a feeling of clausphobia and dread. The camera angles with Michael fading in and out of the darkness is great.  The famous Halloween theme is back with a slight modification.  After all what Halloween movie would there be without that creepy music. I personally think H20 would have been more effective if the theme was used more.  Overall, I think Halloween Ressurection is a great movie. The acting is okay, some corny lines but otherwise easily overlooked as you get yourself immerge into the movie.  Some camera shots show you the characters through the eyes of the camera lense and this gives you the creepy feeling like the Blair Witch Project did for its viewers.  Some die hard fans will be upset because Michael is not going after Josh or Steven to be consisist with the whole concept of the franchise.  I can see Hollywood is trying to bring Michael to a new generation of kids with a more modern version of kids. Will the franchise get back on track with the concept of elimating his bloodline or go with the new direction like so many other sequels have done as they hit #6 or 7?  It doesnt matter, right now the series is open for it to go to any direction or combine both story lines.  Go see the movie, grab some popcorn and treat the movie for what it is, a horror film and enjoy!  Trick or Treat!