I have suffered from lower lumbar back pain for 40 years.  Forty years ago, the Veterans Administration Hospital strongly recommended surgery. And meanwhile provided grocery bags of pain killers.

Due to a long search for back self help, my library of back books now fills shelves and boxes. A common pattern runs through the hundreds of "back books" and seminars which I have read or attended over forty years. Whether the subject is Tai Chi, Yoga, or Pilates, I always find that some exercises seem to help, but there are unhappily always a few exercises that do further injury. And there is the rub.

Thankfully, I eventually found right here - at Amazon - some back books and DVD's which have given me relief from back pain for the first time in 40 years  - as well as a new found ability to run and ice skate again.

Admittedly, my search was a long journey, with a lot of rabbit trails, but I found the best self help yet in the books and DVD's of Peter Egoscue.  Book by book, I became so impressed with the functional results, that I eventually bought every book and DVD Peter has written or produced.

In this DVD series, pay attention to an easily overlooked section of the "Advanced DVD" directed toward the health practioner. Brian Brady clearly explains the functional purpose and specific benefits of each position.
Some of the Egoscue DVD's are not yet available on Amazon. But 90% of them are here at Amazon.

My back problems are largely confined to the lower lumbar area, due to injuries sustained in Vietnam in 1970.

Ironically, Peter Egoscue is also a Vietnam veteran who sustained injuries while on duty. Peter embarked on his own search to heal himself.

What a marvelous, simple and robust approach he has pioneered.  Not one of Peter egoscue's procedures has ever caused my back further injury or pain!

Friends and family often remark that I just don't look like I could be in my mid 60's.  Functional posture and balance can do so much to one's overall health.

Good luck with your own search for back health.