I discovered AYBS on a PBS station during law school.  It was a pleasant, homey program that greatly helped me unwind at bedtime (no mean feat, at the time) so I could eventually fall asleep.  I don't want to imply that it's like a sleeping pill-- it's more like a massage.

No sitcoms make me roar with laughter every minute (MST3K came closest, alhough categorizing that as a sitcom, or anything else, is problematic); but, the good ones brighten my mood, especially when the characters come to feel like welcome, comforting, old friends, and I'll always have a warm feeling from seeing the core cast.  John Inman as Mr. Humphries is among my fondest characters from any program, anywhere.

The jokes are often pretty silly or over-the-top, making "The Andy Griffith Show" seem like "COPS."  You come to anticipate the reactions of each character to a given situation with certainty; but, as many reviews will attest, that is something people who like this show enjoy.  I wouldn't quite say that this show is like crossing "The Office" with "Gilligan's Island;" but, it's tempting (never moreso than when you encounter the "Guatemalan monkey").  If I did, I'd say the watchability greatly favored the former parent.  Even though I could see many jokes coming a mile away, they were often done so outrageously that they still sometimes surprised me the first time through.  I found it interesting how the British were prepared (rarely) to make jokes based on cringingly erroneous ethnic stereotypes that wouldn't have been tolerated here in the U.S. decades earlier; and double entendres abound that might have pushed a very mild, harmless program into a later time slot here.

When some original cast members had to leave for one reason or another (death being a common one), their replacements had a hard time filling the shoes of their predecessors; but, I'm grateful that they kept the series going as best they could.  Even new cast members contributed to some memorable moments.

Unfortunately, I've had horrendous luck with BBC Video quality control with every set I've ever bought, and I'm running into similar problems with the box set of "Only Fools and Horses," also from BBC Video.  The entire current batch of AYBS Disc 11's appears to be corrupt in the same place based on 3 sets I tried (look for it in "The Erotic Dreams of Mrs. Slocombe;" if yours doesn't start tiling, dropping sound, and generally just becoming a mess when she discusses getting a chip caught in her throat the previous night out with Mrs. Axelby, I envy your good luck).  The second and third sets had a slightly defective Disc 12, as well (I couldn't have known it, but, I should have quit while I was ahead).  Amazon has suspended sales pending correction of the disc defects. I strongly recommend watching any BBC Video release entirely before the inspection period expires if you much mind defective discs; and, I urge you to buy multi-volume sets from sellers like Amazon who can easily replace defective sets, and let you pick out a single set of least-corrupt discs from two sets of mixed quality before you have to send one set back.  Even when I've had to pay a bit more to buy from Amazon, the customer service has made the investment well worthwhile, especially on large, multi-disc sets where the odds favor the occasional bad disc.