"West World" is a great movie.  West World is one of three resorts, the others being Roman World and Medieval World.

These three resorts are run by a company named DELOS.  It costs guests $1,000 a day to stay at the resort area they choose.

The resorts ar areas each built like replicas of the time period the resort is named for.

The movie was made by MGM.  Old sets on the MGM lot that were used in other movies were used in "West World."

The resorts are populated by human looking and human acting robots programed and dressed to behave like someone from the particular time period the resort is named for.  They even have robots who bleed when they are killed for example in a gun fight in West World.  The way you can tell who is a robot is to look at heir hands.  DELOS has not yet perfected the hands of the robots.

The guests who stay at these resorts can play and act out their fantasies of being and living in the time period the resort area is built to ressemble and be like.

Upon arrival, the guests are outfited by DELOS with clothes that are made to ressemble the time period of the resort they have chosen to go to.

The robots are built and programmed to perform a certain function in having and helping the guests to act out their fantasies.

They even have robots built and programmed to have sex.

The stars Richard Benjamin as a lawyer who has gone through a divorce and his friend played by James Brolin who has been to West World before has talked Richard Benjamin into going to West World with him believing that it wil help his friend to get over the divorce or at least forget about it for a while.

Ule Brynner plays this robot gunslinger who is supposed to antagonize guests and goad them into a gunfight which the robot is programmed to lose.  He is not supposed to hurt any of the guests.  None of the robots are supposed to hurt any of the guests.

A number of the robot models have been designed and built by computers so that even the technicians working and operating the the resorts at the main control center do not know everything about the robots and their construction.  They bring in the robots to repair them nd upgrade them with new parts, but they do not know everything about the robots.

Things begin going wrong as a virus that stated out in Roman World then spread to Medieval World and then West World.  They have been keeping things under control, but then realize that malfunctions are starting to happen to often.

They decide to call off the other upcoming stays by guests.  They decide not to interrupt the current one in progressf ffearing bad publicity.  However, the malfunctions continue to increase and the technicians lose control of the robots and computers.  The robots rebel and attack and kill the guests.

The gunslinger robot kills James Brolin and then goes after Richard Benjamin.  The gunslinger robot has jsut been upgraded with new telescopic and infrared sensors for his visual/eyes and enhanced audio to pickup the slightest sound.  A fleeing technician tells Richard Benjamin that the modle robot pursuing him is and will always be one step ahead of him.

I really liked this movie.

There wass even a sequel made to this movie called "Future World" that stared peter Fonda as a newspaper reporter sent there with a fellow reporter who is a liberated woman who is a go getter.  She keeps Peter Fonda at a distance.

Future World was open to replace West World because West World was the one selected by the media to spotlight when the robots went out of control in all three worlds in the prior movie.

Yule Brynner reprises his role as the gun slinger, but in a dream sequence.  The company technicians show the two reporters this new process they have for putting people to sleep and inducing dreams into their minds while they sleep.

They offer to give them a demonstration. The woman reporter volunteers. It turns out that the computer probes her mind and subconscious while she is asleep and finds that she has this actual inner longing to be dominated by a macho man.  She dreams that she is kidnapped by these two men.  Enter Yule Brynner as the gun slinger who kicks in the door pulling out both his six-shooters and gunning the two bad guys down.

He unties the woman reporter and then takes her up in his arms and takes her off to a newarby bedroom in the house and throws her on the bed as he joins her with the dreams sequence ending.

The two reporters then later find out that the company that runs the three worlds plan to have dignataries and political leaders come to there three worlds to visit and then replace them with robot copies of them which they will control and have do their bidding.

The sequel "Future World" unfortunately is not available on DVD as of this time.