Love is living all around us, be it a friendship, romantic relationship, or the love of a sport or hobby. Love changes lives in ways we never thought possible, connecting us to the rhythm of life. Feast of Love is a righteous, heartfelt drama film revolving around overlapping relationships in a cozy neighborhood of Portland, Oregon. Acts of perseverance, emotions, and a valuable lesson in love makes a typical drama-romance film. With many, the storylines can be too overwhelming and mediocre, but this feast is enough to satisfy the taste buds without feeling overstuffed.

  In this nontraditional love triangle story comes a polygonal tale of characters lives being interlaced through love. The myriad of characters creates several outlets merging into one beautiful manifestation. Dr. Harry Stevenson, a college professor, and his wife Esther are an aging couple coping from the loss of their successful and only son to a heroin overdose. The two go on with their lives, allowing themselves to fill their hearts' vacancy by extending their love to the young people around them. Harry, played by Morgan Freeman, narrates and lends his advice as he observes the misfortunes and blessings up close. "In the film's poetic, bittersweet musings (delivered in Freeman's ever-authoritative voiceover), one can hear Benton repeatedly clearing his throat to make a grand, definitive statement about love and its ability to make tragicomic fools of us all" (Chang). Wise Harry is a regular at caf&eacute;, owned by his good friend.

  Bradley Smith is an optimistic coffee house owner who's married to his wife Kathryn. Her aura doesn't appear to mirror Bradley's, nor compliment his personality. Although he is much in love with her, that love blinds him of her undying resentment and frustration with him. He has a grand heart and is surrounded by good people, but is mistakenly naïve and at times clueless, becoming lost in the thought of love rather than its very essence. In result, a softball team rival seduces his wife hardly two feet away from him in a bar. Kathryn discovers her newly awakened sexual preference and leaves Bradley with a broken heart.

  Without fail Bradley then welcomes a real estate agent into his life, Diana, who stumbles into his coffee shop one rainy day. They begin dating and she soon moves into the studio she sold to him after seeing the goodness in the man's heart. Bradley asks for her hand and marriage and she answers, putting an end to her well-developed love affair with a married man named David. Meanwhile, Oscar, the recovering drug abuser working for Bradley's cafe, falls for a free spirited girl named Chloe who unexpectedly walks into the shop searching for hire, acquiring the job in an instant.

 The two fall fast in love without fear. Despite the young man's abusive past and drunk father who threatens their lives. After Oscar first invites her into his room and reveals his dark past, she reassures him, "Most junkies, you know, even if they never use again, it doesn't matter. It's too late. They're just gone, you know, permanent zombies. But then there's junkies where all the horrible places they've been, all the horrible things they've done, the fact that they come back from it makes them better people than if they'd never used in the first place. That's you." She soon learns from a psychic that Oscar's future is short-lived, but disregards his fate by asking his hand in marriage. At the wedding Chloe revealed to Harry that she was pregnant. He advised her to have two just in case, in his regret of his only son.
 To Bradley's surprise and having his eager heart shattered yet again when his beloved Diana is spotted kissing David at a park after declaring his love and finally divorcing his then wife as she had asked of him. Bradley is torn deeper and resorts to self-mutilation by stabbing his finger, running to Harry to take him to the hospital. As he is getting stitched up he falls in love yet again for his doctor, Margaret. Fortunately, this time the feeling is mutual and presumes marriage in their future. He spent all that time and energy searching for love when it was only a matter of time before it found him.

  When all the relationships woes are resolved and the group harmonizes at the park for some recreational football, Oscar dies from a heart defect while making a hard catch to the chest.  Both Chloe and Bradley, despite the odds against them, fought on for love. His faithful endeavors in marriage are gullible but he later comes off as a bit of a philosopher alongside his dear friend Harry. No matter how his relationships end, he never fails to forgive and keep those around him close by. Chloe faced adversity from Oscar's dad and the psychic's fortune. Oscar's death evokes an array of emotions because they were the couple with the most faith and innocence behind them. When he had passed and his father threatened to take her life, Harry and Esther offered to adopt the now widowed and pregnant Chloe, the answer to their grieving hearts. One late evening, many months after the passing, Bradley tells Dr. Stevenson about her fortune-telling encounter. "Yes, Harry. She did. And she didn't run away. She didn't crawl into a hole. She found them a house, she threw away her birth control, and she married him. God doesn't hate us, Harry. If he did, he wouldn't have made our hearts so brave."

  Feast of Love offers audiences many dishes to delve into, not just romance, but lessons in life as well. "Love is a playing field. Some people win and some people lose, but most of us can't avoid getting into the game" (Walker). Anyone who has or has yet to experience the trials and tribulations of love will find this film inescapable due to its somewhat fairy tale appeal, but it may leave you searching with the roughly abrupt ending. That can either be a good or bad thing depending how it's digested. Is the film realistic by any means? No. This story is for dreamers; those who surrender so easily at the notion of love. Nevertheless you'll be left to thought on Bradley Smith's thematic query, "Do you think love is a trick or do you think that it's the only meaning there is to this crazy dream?"