First things first--I really did not like the original movie, 28 Days Later. Not because they "weren't zombies" but because I found the plot derivative, the action muted and slow, and the characters silly (not to mention the premise of the movie seemed ridiculous to me). That said, I had low expectations for the sequel. Boy, was I ever glad I rented this movie--so glad that I ponied up the cash and purchased it immediately.

'Weeks' succeeds on all the levels that its predecessor stumbled on. The opening sequence is one of the BEST I have seen for horror in years. Whereas 'Days' begins with a whimper, 'Weeks' opens up with an undeniable bang. While 'Days' tried to be artsy and claimed originality, 'Weeks' threw that to the wind and made a gory, more sensational story--and somehow ended up being even more humane and effective than the first movie! I appreciated how the military was not reverted to the (yawn!) inhuman robotic EVIL BAD role. At one point they are forced to fire on innocent civilians, but the decision to do so is not because they are evil, but rather a strategic decision that makes sense and is revealed to the audience. That, along with the struggle that an individual sniper and an army medic face lends humanity to the story and balances things nicely.

Similarly, the dramatic center of this story--involving a broken family of a father, a mother left for dead, a brother and a sister--was touching, heartbreaking, and endearing beyond any relationship in the first film. Robert Carlyle does an amazing job (as always) in the role of the father.

The visuals and editing for this movie also improved on 'Days'; it still kept the haunting soundtrack, but improved on the technique and graininess of its predecessor. Oh, and there are more infected, more blood, explosions, palpable terror and chaos to delight even the most hardened zombie fan.

So with all these things going for it, why not five stars? There are some serious plot holes that bug, and I'm not sure if they have been discussed in other reviews yet, or if other reviewers were bugged by certain story aspects. Mild spoilers follow, so please don't read if you don't want to know.

The first glaring error is when the general tells the medic that they know enough about the rage virus, and that it cannot spread between species. Considering the premise for the first movie was human infection from a raged-up monkey, this is silly. Just a nitpick, but silly nonetheless. Secondly, why on earth would the father (who is not military personell, he isn't American, from what I can tell, he has no real important role whatsoever) have access to private military holding rooms, especially with someone so valuable as the carrier/infected mother? Why wasn't there any security in the area? The final (and more significant) problem I had with the film was the overwhelming need to save the young boy because of his natural immunity to the rage virus, and this concept of a cure. The virus spreads and infects almost instantaneously. A vaccination to prevent rage outbreaks I suppose could work--except that from the boy's mother (who was infected, but immune), we see that anyone with any direct fluid transfer interaction with her immediately becomes infected. If someone was not vaccinated, they'd immediately succumb to the virus, killing, ripping, infecting anyone else in their path. Even if a cure was found from the boy's blood, the logistics of injecting all the infected (who are highly dangerous and contagious) would hardly be worth the costly effort. Especially considering these AREN'T undead zombies--the infected parties will die within a few weeks when they can't feed (as the audience knows from narrative at the beginning of this movie). It would be much easier (and safer) to simply wait out until the infected die of starvation, and rebuild from there. From a tactical standpoint, it didn't really make much sense. But perhaps this was intentional. It certainly makes the choices of the characters more poignant; and that unlikely, stubborn hope in that face of futility becomes all the more meaningful, even if the plot is a bit uneven as a consequence.

Having said all this, the bottom line is that I absolutely love this movie. I highly recommend buying this film; it is everything you could ever ask for in a zombie movie.