In response to the people that aren't fans of this movie or Dakota Fanning, I rewatched Man on Fire tonight. I started watching with the objective of being as objective as possible as the movie played out. Instead of watching the plot and the characters, I watched the actors. I watched their reactions to each other, their faces, the tone of their voices, and the way they responded to stimulus, both direct and indirect. I watched to see if I could pinpoint something that I didn't like in the performance of Denzel or Dakota. I watched to see if I had overrated the movie.

Here are my conclusions: my judgements were initially correct. The actions, language, body movements, and facial characteristics of those two are natural and true - nothing seems rehearsed, memorized, or exploitative in any way. It seems to me that Dakota Fanning, who was only nine when she filmed this movie, was truly in her character. I did not see any lapses in concentration because you couldn't even tell she was concentrating. She was Pita. She didn't memorize the lines and act the emotions - she spoke the lines as if they were hers and emoted as if she was truly feeling them. Denzel did the same thing.

I especially wanted to watch the end carefully, because it is the emotional lynchpin of the film. Even while watching the performances, not the story, I still got caught up in the emotional intensity of those two creating their relationship. Even as I was thinking, Wow, they really do forget those cameras are rolling, a few tears were rolling down my cheeks.

I don't admit that easily, because there are only a few movies that I have cried during. I've said it before and I'll say it again - only one actress has made me genuinely laugh, smile, and cry during the same movie, and that actress is Dakota Fanning. I'm not some "fan boy" as people like to say; rather, I'm ecstatic that Hollywood finally has some real talent and honest ability to inject some new life into its films. I would be a happy person if she acted for the rest of her life.

The point of all this? The movie is damn good, and so are Denzel and Dakota.