Don't get me wrong i LOVE The X Files, but the departure of David Duchovny left a deeper scar than the people at Ten Thirteen wanted to admit. 
Yes, Robert Patrick's character is an extremely intelligent addition to the series' universe... What the heck! Even Monica Reyes was a great character, but to introduce them on the eighth season was a bold move. Maybe the series should have ended on the seventh year. Maybe it should have ended on this one... Maybe...
There's nothing to regret now. The series actually ended about a year ago, and here we are hoping for the DVD sets to be released so we can have the complete 9 years the program lasted on its TV run. 
Gillian Anderson carried the weight of the whole show in her shoulders, for the first time. And a lot of fans complain about the series turning into a Soap Opera, because of the amount of chapters in wich Scully cries; starting this season. 
Maybe this fans are, most of them, men. 
Don't get me wrong... i'm a guy too, but you have to understand all the events that happen to the Dana character during the short course of a year. She learns she's pregnant, even though she's been told before, she can never conceive... and she's lost the love of her life. I would cry too. 
The show returns to the kind of episodes that were a predominance on the first season, in wich comedic episodes weren't still being produced. The creators were trying to give some heavy profile to the Doggett character, so they couldn't give him a comedic episode... even the circumstances in wich this season was developed, didn't allow it. The situations inside the series' psychology didn't help either. 
The primary objective of our characters was to protect The X Files, find Mulder and get Scully's pregnancy to a good term. 
The episodes in this season range from extremely good to extremely mediocre. Let's analyze them one by one in short phrases:
Within / Without: Being the first 2 episodes in the season, it was obvious they were going to be mithology ones... A mithology that started deepening from here.
Patience: Doggett's first X File. The first independent (or MOTW) episode. A lot of fans hated it. I didn't think it was THAT bad (at least not as FIGHT CLUB, written too by Chris Carter). Scully being a beleiver excited me beyond the realm of science. Doggett being an sceptic without reasons (differing from Scully's usual scepticism, supported by science)allowed the series to change in many ways.
Roadrunners: Vince Gilligan. Small town. Dark secret. And a Slug!!! One of the seasons' best!
Invocation: David Amann still amazes with this haunting tale!!!
Redrum: A Strange but rather effective episode. It's an X File even though Doggett and Scully don't even know they're involved in it. Joe Morton (T2) reunites with Robert Patrick.
Via Negativa (Wich translates from the spanish language as: "Negative Way"): Ties with Badlaa as the strangest episode this season.
Surekill / Salvage: Worst episodes of the season.The only good joke is the self referential joke to T2. 
Badlaa: Ties with Via Negativa as the strangest episode this season.
The Gift: Mulder has being keeping a secret to Scully. Found out what it is.
Medusa: A virus has been set free on the Boston Subway System.
Per Manum: Is Mulder the father of Scully's baby? Is Scully's baby an alien?
This Is Not Happenning / Dead Alive / Three Words: The three part arc that involves Mulder's return. The introduction of the Reyes character.
Empedocles: Reyes and Mulder try to solve the case of Doggett's son kidnapping and consequent murder.
Vienen (Wich translates from the spanish language as: "They're Coming"): Mulder and Doggett together. Two worlds collide!!!
Alone: Mulder and Scully's last X File together, ever in the series!!!
Essence / Existence: For the first time a season finale is handled with a two parter!!! Mulder, Skinner, Doggett, Reyes and (Are you ready for this?) Krycek, protect Scully from Billy Miles and his legion of Super Soldiers. One of them DIES!!!
With this season handling a lot of mithology episodes to give a complete psychological profile to the Doggett character, this season cannot be considered the best nor the worse. Just an attempt from the creators to show they can still do good things lacking the original elements that made them famous.
Long Live Scully!!!
Long Live Mulder!!!
Long Live The X Files!!!
Enrique Aguilar.
A Mexican Phile.