No, it isn't the best - the love interest with Mary Steenberger had a wrinkle in time that made little sense, but not enough to worry about.
The Old West scenes were fun to watch, though, and if you have a  kid who likes trains, this may be their favorite movie in the trilogy. In  this version, Doc's gotten stuck in the past and tells Marty to leave him  alone - he's content to be inventing things back in the past, though he  must find it frustrating to invent things he can't show anyone - his rule  has always been that when you time-travel, you mustn't do anything to  change the future.
Marty ends up back in the wild west in the Delorean,  the very time-machine that needs plutonium to get it moving fast enough to  warp into another time. When he lands, he manages to gouge a hole in the  fuel tank, and eventually he realizes he's not going to find much plutonium  in the Old West.
Oh, no!  Are they stuck in the past forever? Not very  likely, as Doc figures out how he can get them back to the future.
It is  also frustrating for those of us who enjoy these movies that that some are  in DVD, some in VHS, and the first is in limbo.  However, eventually  they'll all be out in DVD.  
For now, I ordered all three in VHS format  recently 'somewhere' - the first remains the best and our favorite, but you  really have to have them all if you're going to fully enjoy them. 
These  movies are GREAT for the whole family to watch - we did these as a marathon  one week-end, and was it fun.  The first one is still the favorite, but  that's because it lays the groundwork for this one and the next. 
Just a  little heads up for parents of young kids -I was surprised in watching this  for the umpteenth time, but with a mom's eye and ear, to hear several  really unnecessary cusswords scattered throughout all three movies. Oh,  nothing to bad, but they could have been left out entirely.  My 8-year  old's eyes popped open - he knows that swear words are kind of a lazy  person's short cut for saying what they want to - usually used by those low  in vocabulary, weak on creative expression - but we just frowned a little,  scratched our heads, and decided not to worry. 
For those who don't have  kids and think I'm being too prissy, just wait til ya have kids of your  own!