G.I. Joe and the Transformers were of course, rival shows in a way. They were both by Hasbro, and they both appealed to the same audience.  "Joe" was a bit more conventional in my opinion. G.I. Joe was the  ultimate 'Cold War' cartoon, with the U.S. being the "Joes" and  Cobra representing whatever stood in opposition to the U.S. - and in the  80s, that was the U.S.S.R. Although my heart lay (and still lies) with the  Transformers, I consider this movie to be a priceless gem. This was the  last segment of G.I. Joe worthy of watching. In the early 90s, the  franchise was thoroughly ruined when they introduced "G.I. Joe  Extreme". Perhaps the same thing is happening with the Transformers  (Beast Wars) - not really a fan at all. 
In "G.I. Joe: The  Movie" things get serious, and the action/plot is more intense than it  ever was in the regular series. The animation is noticeably better (because  they brought in Japanese animators to do the 'anime' thing) and the plot is  way more mysterious thanks to the introduction of Cobra's creators, the  Cobra-La. The Cobra-La (an underground race) are led a floating nemesis  named Golobulus (played by Burgess Meredith). They come back, banish Cobra  Commander for losing so many battles to G.I. Joe (poor guy - his position  had already been severely compromised by Emperor Serpentor's  presence).  There is some GREAT drama here. (You'll love this...it teaches a good  lesson to the kids - it just doesn't pay to be a bad guy...)
On the  "Joe" side, Duke takes a backseat to his crazy younger brother,  Falcon (played by Don Johnson). With the exception of a few memorable  original characters, we focus more on the new "Joes" in this  movie - just like we focused on Hot Rod and the new Transformers in the  1986 theatrical release. That's okay though, because Falcon is very  likeable. 
The BEST SCENE is near the end when Duke and Serpentor square  off. The results are a bit shocking, and once again, you're reminded - this  ain't the regular cartoon...THIS IS THE MOVIE, which means things get more  serious. (Weren't you shocked when Prime died in Transformers the  Movie? )Well, things do get more serious - some folks even tell me that  certain characters weren't supposed to make it to the end of the movie.  (Why don't we see a certain favorite "Joe" onscreen when the  characters insist that he's recovering...c'mom it was censored for American  audiences - that certain character DID NOT make it.)
The opening sequence  (Statue Of Liberty Battle) is incredible. Suggestion: See some of the  original "Joe" videos (they're selling them here - or rent them  at your local video store) before watching this movie. Then you'll  understand just how important characters like Duke, Roadblock and Cobra  Commander are. You'll need to understand just how 'old school' they are by  the time this movie came out - then you realize the significance of the  plot twists.
Thanks for reading this - I loved this movie. Transformers  the Movie it is not, however, if G.I. Joe had ended with this movie (which  I consider it did), it went out with a bang. Yo Joe! 
Knyte.