In a few particulars GRAND ILLUSION does feel like the nearly seventy-year-old movie that it is: the music is scratchy and distorted, some of the dialogue sounds like it was recorded through a tin can, and some of the cinematic conventions are a little cheesy or old-fasioned by today's standards (notably the downing of the main character's airplane in the beginning).
But these are quibbles.  And they all but disappear as the movie pulls you in with an attraction as inexorable as gravity.  The story begins with the main character - a French airman played by the talented and instantly likeable Jean Gabin - being downed, along with his remote, stiff-lipped superior de Boieldieu, behind enemy lines and sent to wait out the duration of the war in a German POW camp.  Friendships are made and broken and made again as the two men are transferred from camp to camp, finally arriving at a castle administrated by Captain von Rauffenstein (the legendary Eric von Stroheim), a crippled German airman embittered by his inability to fly but stoic in the execution of his duty.  Like Gabin's superior, von Rauffenstein is a nobleman, and the two enemy officers form a bond touching in its awkward sincerity.  But events conspire against this turn, and eventually every character is called upon to do what he imagines to be his duty.  (And though telling a suspenseful story was admittedly far from Jean Renoir's first goal, the fact remains that GRAND ILLUSION *is* suspenseful - very much so, especially in the last third.  The final five minutes are as white-knuckled as anything Hollywood has made since.)
Much has been made by critics of the fact that Gabin's working-class pilot and his noble superior do not become fast friends, which makes the movie sound far more stridently class-warrior than it really is.  The movie doesn't demonize the officer-class characters, but shows them as sensitive and intelligent people who have far more in common than their mutually belligerent nations would readily admit.  Almost every character in GRAND ILLUSION, whether high-born or low, proves to be noble - truly noble - in the end.  The movie is a moving paean to human decency and to the highest impulses to which we can aspire: love, friendship, honor, and sacrifice.  We need more movies like this.  We need more people like this.