Divine!  Without doubt the most delightful Le Nozze di Figaro I've yet seen.  Cotrubas IS Susanna.  Von Stade IS Cherubino. Has there ever been a more irascible, arrogant, demanding -- and totally convincing Count than Luxon?  And after the great performance of Skram as Figaro, why has the world of opera not seen more of him?  A pity.  I've scanned the Web and other than recitals as solo bass, he has done nothing else in music.  He spent five years in the U.S., studying music and architecture at Montana State U.  A strange combination.  Anyone know more about him? (xyzcolin1)

  Kiri te Kanawa.  What can one say about this great lady that has not been said?  Beauty, grace and the voice of an angel. The Glyndebourne version of Figaro was made two years after her debut in London featuring the same opera.  I did not see the debut -- is there film extant?-- that brought the world to her feet, but certainly it could not have been less of a performance than that of Glyndebourne, which was perfection itself.  A bonus of the latter was the view of Kiri at twenty-nine years of age.  The fresh and near startling beauty resulting from the racial mix of Maori and Irish.  The princess of opera.

  The princess of twenty-nine is now the queen of opera at sixty years of age.  Hard to believe and even more incredible is to see her at sixty.  She is not the fresh-faced kid of Glyndebourne, but certainly could pass for a lovely and young forty.  This is not a fancy on my part.  I did see her for the better part of an evening from a distance of not much more than a dozen feet.  It happened on Sept. 8, 2004 in Nashville at the Opening Night of the Tennessee Performing Arts Center.  What?  Nashville, the home of country music?  Yes, we do have a faithful opera following; testimony to that was the sellout of Kiri's one-night appearance.  I did not learn about it until Sept 7 and I despaired of getting a ticket.  I tried to get a pair of 'best available' seats.  Zero.  Tried for a single.  The Gods of Opera smiled down on me and I came away with a seat on the first row.

  She wore a red, trailing gown, a sleek and simple one that hugged her body, unlike the flouncy ones she seems to favor.  Her entire repertoire consisted of but six arias.  I was a bit disappointed that she sang only one of my favorites--Depuis le jour.  I did so want to hear what has become a Kiri trademark, and sung in so many of her videos and CDs--O mio babbino caro.  What happened next I still find hard to believe, since the act on my part was brash and I am a retiring sort of person.  However, a physician and his wife seated next to me congratulated me on my action and its outcome.

Bear in mind, though, that this happened in an atmosphere of decorum, so unlike most American musical affairs where the audience believes in laissez faire to the utmost.

  At the end of her final number, while Kiri was bowing to a standing ovation, I shouted, "Sing, O mio babbino caro!"  The ovation was so loud she did not understand me and I repeated the request.  She smiled and I thought she nodded her head.  Alas, she did not sing the aria, took one final bow and left the stage.  After a few moments she reappeared, smiled and sang O mio babbino caro.  There are some skeptics who'll say the selection was in the plan, since she often includes it in an encore.  But I believe that the act was in keeping with her reputation for graciousness and generosity.