When I read about this film, I thought, "Here's another small-town American indie, focusing on peculiar characters that turn out to be real, just like us." How was this going to be different from numerous other similar films, such as "Dan in Real Life", or "Friends With Money" - all good films, mind you, but lacking in the originality department? I didn't expect much going to see "Waitress", but, flaws and all, the film won me over with its sincerity, and more so with the lead performance by the fantastic Keri Russell.
Jenna (Keri Russell) seems numbed by life. She works at a diner with a semi-abusive boss (Lew Temple), her gal friends (Cheryl Hines and Adrienne Shelly), and the diner's owner Ol' Joe (the great Andy Griffith), who hates everyone but has a special affection for Jenna. Jenna lives with a half-demented, overly protective husband Earl (Jeremy Sisto) who constantly harasses her, and threatens to beat the living hell out of her if she dares leave. One day she discovers that she's pregnant, which leads to meeting the young doctor Pomatter (Nathan Fillion).
The film is a weird combination of dramatic realism and borderline-slapstick, emphasized by some caricature characters (particularly the boss, and a young guy (Eddie Jameson) who proposes to Jenna's friend - he seems like he belongs in a mental institution). Shelly didn't seem to always have a proper grasp of the tone she wanted to sustain. Which is a shame, because a lot of the scenes - especially the ones between Jenna and Dr. Pomatter - are very assured, with snappy dialogue and great chemistry. It makes you wish the filmmakers just ditched the whole attempt at satirizing Southerners (my guess is that's what they were aiming for?) and concentrate on the serious aspects.
There are other flaws in the film. We never really understand Earl, where he's coming from, or why Jenna is with him. He's a nasty piece of work, that guy. Her sudden change of attitude near the end of the film is more than forced, making you wonder why she didn't come to those conclusions much earlier. And no one will ever doubt the fate of Ol' Joe. Last but not least, Keri Russell is great and all, but somehow, she never really feels like she belongs in that diner. I guess it's kind of the film's point, but still, there's this hint of sophistication to her, a knowing sort of spark in her eyes that can't be erased.
Still, as I said, "Waitress" had me, at around the 15-minute mark to be exact, when Jenna meets the doc. Their interaction was music to my ears; there was an honesty to it, a truthfulness absent in most other cardboard wannabe indies. I really wanted those two to get together.
Unlike "Chocolat", where characters got aroused from eating chocolates, "Waitress" keeps its metaphors to a minimum. It's interlaced with quick-cuts of savory pies, the names of which are paralleled to the heroine's life (e.g. "I Hate My Husband" pie). The pies she makes provoke euphoric feelings in people, as if by tasting them they are offered a glimpse of heaven. This is to emphasize Jenna's passion, her ability to lead a life much more fulfilling than her hometown can provide. But the pie-making allegory is never rubbed in your face (like the nauseatingly sweet "Chocolat").
With perhaps a tad too many ingredients, "Waitress" nevertheless offers a mouth-watering confection.