I have to say, as I sat down to watch "Sky Captain" my enthusiasm for this sort of flick was somewhat tempered by some of the reviews that I had read beforehand. That, while an extraordinary visual achievement, the film is hampered by a weak story, corny dialogue, lack of chemistry between Law and Paltrow and overall subpar acting performances by the principal performers. Sadly, I had let some of this negative talk influence my decision to hold off seeing it in the theaters, instead waiting until the release of the DVD. So, as hit the play button, I wasn't expecting anything special.

Now that I have seen the movie, I remember the feeling I got when I was 9 years old and my parents took me to see "Star Wars" for the very first time. I have never again felt that way after seeing a movie, except for maybe "The Incredibles" to some extent. Now, I'm not saying "Sky Captain" is the movie experience "Star Wars" was. Nothing will ever top that, not in my lifetime. But after seeing this movie, I felt something similar (albeit in a much smaller way) that reminded me of the feeling that I got after seeing "Star Wars".

This is simply one of the best movies to come along in recent memory. What imagination translated to screen! Fantastic air ships, flying giant robots, spectacular aerial and undersea battles, exotic locales, hidden fortresses; what more could you ask for? Now, all this nonsense about the corny dialogue, bad acting, lack of chemistry, etc. that supposedly hamper the film? I just don't buy it. I thought the story was great, the acting first-rate, and the dialogue to be reminiscent of the films of the early 1940s. I also found the chemistry between Law and Paltrow to be engaging and very believable. I even liked the aged sepia-toned look of the picture, in keeping with the whole "comic book come to life" theme. I just wish there had been more of Angelina Jolie!

Seems that a lot of people has a big polarizing effect on people: They either love it or hate it. If you're a big fan of "Star Wars" or "Raiders of the Lost Ark", then this movie is tailor-made for you. If "The Matrix" is the best sci-fi flick you've ever seen, "Sky Captain" is probably not going to do it for you.

Thank you, Kerry Conran, for reestablishing my faith in movies and moviemaking. You have truly done something wondrous and special, and I do think that history of cinema will reflect kindly upon you.