Taking place in the 1950's in Christchurch New Zealand. Heavenly Creatures is based on a true story about the intense bond of two girls Pauline Yvonne Rieper and Juliet Hulme.
I think for Pauline in particular this friendship is very important. Pauline is moody person, an introvert of very strong character, kind of a tom boy, with short black unruly curls.
Her father runs a fish shop, and her mother is a house wife, their working-class home also doubles as a boarding house.
She may have feelings of inadequetcy, because of scars on her legs, leaving them brittle, from a childhood illness. But when she meets Juliet Hulme it seems she's met her soul mate.  
Juliet is an extrovert, worldly and outspoken, she even corrects the French teacher on her first day.
Juliet is impressed with Pauline's scars, she has scars too, on her lungs from a childhood bout with tuberculosis.
Juliet's parents left her in the Bahamas "for the good of her health" and she didn't see them for five whole years. Juliet tells Pauline "All the best people have bad chests and bone diseases, it's all frightfully romantic!"
Pauline finds refuge at Juliet's enormous upper-class house, where they play and obsess in their made-up world of Borovnia, they write about the escapades of their imaginary alter egos and their fantasy family. Juliet becomes Deborah and Pauline becomes Gina (a beautiful gypsy). and they revel in the music of Mario Lanza, the worlds greatest tenor! 
But Juliets parents seem rather cold and aloof. Her mother is a marriage counselor, she has a special technique called "deep therapy".
And her father is an esteemed University rector. He is the first to question the intensity of Pauline and Juliet's relationship. He suggests to the Riepers that Pauline may be growing in a "wayward" fashion and suggests a psychiatrist.
However, Pauline seems oblivious to this. She thinks of Mr. Hulme. as the kindest man she's ever known.
Pauline begins to grow desperate, at the idea that someone may try to come in between her and Juliet, particularly her mother. Who seems to grow concerned at Pauline's total obsession with her stories (and uninterest in school) and especially after a short affair with a male boarder, their relationship is rocky.
Whereas Pauline truly has loving parents, her friendship with Juliet is so important to her, it seems to have altered her reality. And the tension builds when Juliet's parrents announce they are getting divorced and Mr. Hulme is taking Juliet and her brother to South Africa.
The story is absolutely true.
The narration of the film was taken directly from the actual diaries entries of Pauline, which was discovered buried in her backyard by the police. And Peter Jackson, said he filmed most of the scenes in the actual location of the real events.
Melanie Lynsky who portrays Pauline, is MAGNIFICENT! Her performance in fantastic, and seems so real.
Those scenes in which she cries, are so excruiating to watch, because she's actually sobbing, and at the same time it's just facinating.
She's also very charming. I think you'll like her right away.
Kate Winslet is also wonderful. This must have been he first film for each of them, because in the opening sequence is says "and introducing Melanie Lynsky &amp; Kate Winslet"
Filmed in Christchurch New Zealand, Heavenly Creatures is a FACINATING and an absolutely ENGROSSING film. If you like movie of "dark" genre, you'll be awe-struck.
As an interesting side note, The girls were spared harsh punishment because of their ages. Juliet Hulme, changed her name to Anne Perry and is now a writer (of fictional crime) Anne Perry herself admits this. There has been speculation as to what has become of Pauline. But one source says, she changed her name to Hilary Nathan and is an ex-librarian, devout Catholic (almost became a nun) and now runs a riding school in rural England. This is from NZ (New Zealand) Woman's Weekly magazine 1997 in an article written by Chris Cooke.
This is an excellent film, and I'm glad to see it's now on DVD, I know there was a petition going around to get it released, I signed it. :-)
This is the Uncut version.