This is historical drama at its worst.  There is no sense whatever of being carried to another era or sharing the lives of  its people.  I felt like I was watching a drawn-out costume show, interrupted by exaggerated violence that created no tension and exaggerated sex that had no erotic appeal.

But what's really disturbing about this series is the screenwriter's total lack of respect for his historical material.  Far from being "relatively free of historical inaccuracies" the series is rife with them.  Entire episodes are based on incidents that never happened.  Worse, many of them never would have happened; they contradict what is known about the characters or the era; sometimes they contradict simple common sense.

A guest leaves the table at a VIP dinner for the Pope and Curia, and goes unchallenged into the private quarters of his host to do lethal mischief?  That is no more credible in a Cardinal's palace in 1492 than  it would be in the White House today.

Young highborn ladies travel on horseback and alone across two hundred miles of bandit-ridden countryside and the Appennine Mountains?  The producers of Hollywood's silliiest westerns would shudder at the notion

Those are just two examples of implausible events that never happened.  There are many others.  In the very worst, we  see Cesare abduct Giovanni Sforza, beat him brutally, and take him to the Vatican dressed only in a night shirt.  There, in the presence of two whores, a big bed, and the entire Curia, Sforza is taunted about his virility--or lack of it--while all the Cardinals titter and jeer.  This ugly travesty never happened, either.  Sforza's long quarrel with the pope about his marriage took place entirely through letters.  As for the Cardinals, corrupt though many of them were, they were generally astute.  They were unlikely to risk scandal for the petty satisfaction of humiliating an insignificant count.

I have been reading about Borgias and their era for many years.  Their story--their real story--is rich with drama and complexity.  What a pity it all went to waste here.  But there is one good film around that you can watch: "The Conclave."  It's set much earlier, when Rodrigo Borgia was just a young cardinal, laying the groundwork for his rise to Papacy and power.  "The Conclave" is an intelligent, engrossing movie, and it tells us more about the Renaissance and its church in two hours than we get from this whole sleazy series.