First, I want to express my sincere thanks to the people who posted answers on various forums about the 'extended memory required' to play this disk. Their generosity of sharing their guidance and assistance is much appreciated by us all. Second, I must admonish Amazon for not having posted at least a note or some other notice about the issues with this disk. It is not, repeat not, a problem with your blu-ray player. Sony Entertainment has incorrectly mastered this disk and failed to issue a recall which is inexcusable. I have written Sony Entertainment and requested they offer all purchasers of this disk either a full refund or and exchange of the product for a disk without the extended memory requirement. BD-Live is an 'option' in the Blu_ray standard, IT IS NOT A REQUIREMENT and Sony Entertainment has violated the Blu_Ray player standard by issuing a disk that will not play without extended memory to support BD-Live.

In short, SONY ENTERTAINMENT is LEGALLY REQUIRED to  send you either a disk that works without extended memory and/or to refund your purchase price.

If you purchased this disk and are having problem playing it, then you MUST write Sony Entertainment and provide them the following information:

1) The purchase information including the retailers name, date of purchase, and a copy of your receipt. If you cannot locate your receipt, then you MUST get the UPC code from tha disk sleeve the disk was shipped in.

2) Provide a stamped-self addressed envelope if you are requesting a refund. If you wish a replacement disk, then include a 3x5" index card with your shipping address plainly printed (no handwriting) or typed so Sony can send you a replacement disk.

3) Use an 8.5" x 11" piece of paper and write to Sony Entertainment, (the mailing address is listed on your Blu-Ray case) and in BOLD, CAPITAL LETTERS underneath Sony mailing address, write the words on a single line: "RE: REPLACEMENT DISK REQUEST FOR STAR SHIP TROOPERS BLU-RAY DISK" . You can say whatever you want in the body of the letter, but in the body. in a single paragraph write the following: " I am enclosing a copy of my proof of purchase and I am hereby requesting you send me a replacement Blu Ray disk to the shipping address included with this letter.."

4) Mail you letter USPS Priority Mail with DELIVERY CONFIRMATION .. (cost about $5.00) keep a copy of the letter and your proof of purchase information.

You should receive a replacement Blu-Ray disk from Sony or your refund in about six to eight weeks.