All I can say is, this is an incredibly well-made movie. Well, not ALL, but this  still is very well-made. I watched this again last night, and fortunately, I got the expanded version this time. I bought the original release on tape a long time ago, and good as it is, it's still missing something. The "Collector's Edition" is the full-length release. Yes, it's a very long movie, but it's such an epic of excess, being almost two and a half hours long only adds to the nature of it.

I tend to stay away from All-Star extravaganzas, as the idea of brimming over with celebrities only seems to be a selling point, helpful in ticket and rental sales when the film itself really isn't that good in the first place. Not the case here.

Where to start? Speilberg parodies himself in the first scene by lampooning "Jaws," the girl here accidentally finding a Japanese submarine, instead of a shark. And the roller coaster ride just picks up momentum from there.

It's funny, how in December of 1941, the whole country was worried about Japan and Germany invading the United States, and 60 years later, the country was again on High Alert, this time radical Muslim terrorists are the subject of worry. But judging from what I have heard and read about those days, it would seem the general mood portrayed in the film was accurate. And sadly, people don't seem to be like this anymore. There was, despite infighting, unity against a very dangerous, real enemy. And anymore, the enemy seems to be applauded. Just an opinion. This isn't meant to be a political rant, I just get very angry when I think about Pearl Harbor, the World Trade Center, and where the world has been going lately.

One thing in this movie that jumps out at you, is the over-the-top nature of the whole thing. A stand-out is the choreography in the USO dance contest scene. It has to be seen to be believed. To the person who hasn't seen it: A young man named Wally is involved with a very beautiful girl named Betty Douglas, against her father's wishes. He has been preparing for an upcoming dance contest, but the rules have changed. No civilians this time. The girls are only allowed to dance with soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. Wally refuses to put on a uniform, hence he's a civilian, but still manages to gain admission. A soldier, nicknamed "Stretch,"  complete bully and very boorish in his demeanor, decides Betty is the girl for him. So when Betty throws him over for Wally at the dance contest, a humiliated Stretch decides to exact a pound-of-flesh retaliation. A fight ensues, and the damage to the club, and ultimately Hollywood Boulevard, is simply jaw-dropping. But watching Stretch chase Wally all over the dance floor, is one of the best sequences you will see anywhere. Among the dancing is a violent confrontation, a disaster waiting to happen.

There are many sub-plots in 1941, and detractors say it's too many elements pulling it too many ways at once. I don't agree. True, there is an awful lot going on, and it can overwhelm one, but look at the scenario in the story. Southern California is in a state of High Alert, the whole country was trying to recover from the Pearl Harbor attack, Hitler was still in power, and everyone was simply galvanized with emotion. How the film makers still managed to make a movie with such a premise contain humor, is an achievement. It contains comedy, action, a dance scene, romance, violence, and family life. It is a vey mixed bag, but some things go so far before you realize it's intentional; it's supposed to overwhelm you.

And, this is a very politically incorrect film. The language itself, probably wouldn't fly today. Calling Japanese people "Japs," "Slant-eyes," and "Yellow," were standard fare at that time. Here we have Japs, Krauts, you name it. I don't celebrate racism, far from it, but even more, I decry political correctness. This film is to be seen as a time piece, and this is how people talked, acted, and thought at the time.

To whit, I say, if you haven't seen this movie, it would be worth your time to watch it, but be warned; this edition, the superior one, is almost two-and-a-half hours long. If you have, and like it, I'm preaching to the choir. If you don't like it, that's your opinion, we all have our tastes, but I really don't know how someone could not like it.