From hearing the first voice-over from Kiefer Sutherland in the pilot, "The following takes places from 12:00 PM to 1:00 AM on the day of the California Presidential Primary. Events occur in real time," I was hooked. And you should be too.

Every episode is incredibly well-crafted. The use of picture-in-picture and widescreen are especially expertly done. A digital clock appears on the screen on occasion, and it ticks before commercial breaks and at the end of every episode. This ticking sound soon becomes haunting and heart-pounding. It is one of the elements that keeps your eyes wide open, your blood pumping, and your breath short. Literally. I have on many occasions had to take a water break during commercials.
The story is incredibly suspenseful. Even those who would never speak to a television would find themselves shouting, "No!" "Oh my god!" and "Why?". Although we know that in the magic realm of television, order will be restored, viewers are frightened for the characters. The writers do an incredible job of building suspense and bring the characters to life, as do the actors.
24 has been blessed with a fantastic cast, which, coincidentally, is mostly Canadian. Kiefer Sutherland obviously stands out as Jack Bauer, the federal agent with incredible love for his cause and his family, but a feverish temper as well. Whenever Jack threatens someone, you know he's serious. And you're afraid. Dennis Haysbert and Penny Johnson Jerald have incredible anti-chemistry as Senator Robert Palmer and his wife Sherry, who have a great deal of friction. In front of the press, they're loving and close, but once they are away from the press, everything is different. They test each other. These are only examples of an incredible and believable cast.
24 should have won all of the television awards it was nominated for. The only major award won so far is Kiefer Sutherland's Best Actor in a Drama Golden Globe, which he deserved far more than any other nominee.
I could not let myself miss an episode of the sublimely insane first season, and as soon as Season Two starts, homework will have to wait. It's that good.
{added in the middle of Season Two: It still rocks. I don't know how this season is going to end, but I love the way the show has evolved. Watch Season One on DVD, regardless of whether you've seen any of the episodes of this show.)