Ok, the acting doesn't get any better...undisputed fact. I find the BIOPOLAR Stanley hilarious, along with everything else people have said for over half a century.  Brando even said in his autobio that Jessica Tandy would get mad at him during the play because audiences would laugh at him as he tormented her, diminishing her character, and she blamed him. Guess she had to blame somebody.

But Marlon Brando, in all his genius, depth, brilliance, talent, etc, etc, etc, just plain cracks me up, in his movies and to confirm his sense of humor, in his autobio.  I was laughing so hard I couldn't even read the part in his autobio when he was talking about his visit on the set of "The Godfather" from a cocked eyed mob boss.

He said, "The first thing I noticed about him was that one of his eyes looked to the left and the other to the right.  I didn't know which one to look at, so, trying not to offend him, I alternated between them."  This simply cracked me completely up.  But when he quoted the mob boss during a tour of the set as saying, "I don't know how you keep from goin' nuts Marlo, with all these people and all these wires and everything," Brando wrote, "I agree, the whole thing is really cockeyed, isn't it?"  Then I looked into his cocked eyes and realized what I'd said.  I spun around, trying to divert his attention to something on the set and to get a glimpse of his reaction peripherally.  For a moment he blinked and I thought I saw a hurt look flash across his face, but the moment passed, and I babbled a mouthful of mush to fill the air with words, not knowing what in the world I was saying."  I am still trying to imagine a big bad cocked eyed gangster with a hurt look on his face due to "Marlo's" slip of the tongue.

This was the funniest part of his autobio to me, although the man cracked me up through the entire reading as he does in his movies, serious or not, he makes me smile.  He just has an amazing effect on me and I think it's deeper than just his unparalleled acting ability because I'm not all that impressed with actors.  I'm gonna keep searching until I find out what it really and truly is about him that, as he says in his autobio about him almost getting strangled to death at the premier of Guys and Dolls, "turns crowds into mobs".

I know his courage has a lot to do with it and my attraction to strength and courage is an obvious connection, but I still think there is more and I'm gonna keep digging.  His movies are revealing (he spilled his guts in Last Tango In Paris while playing the harmonica), as well as in his autobio, but there was more to this man than we will probably ever know, more than he probably ran out of time to find out. Head's up for us to forever examine our own lives because there is obviously more to us than meets the eye, as Eva Marie Saint said when Brando asked her in On The Waterfront, 'what more do you want?'...much more, much, much more!