Watching the jaw-dropping, Oscar-winning performance from Forest Whitaker in this movie was an incredible experience for me. I remember the stories about Idi Amin in the papers and on the evening news back in the late 70s and he terrified me, even though he was thousands of miles away from where I was at the time (in Nigeria). He terrified me because he had such a strong resemblance to my father and he seemed to be ruling Uganda with the same ruthless tyranny with which my father ruled his household. There were never any heads in the fridge in our house back then but in my teenage imagination, anything was possible. Whitaker inhabits the spirit of Amin in a way I haven't seen since Jamie Foxx's (also Oscar-winning) impersonation of Ray Charles. Idi Amin was a madman and Whitaker looks every inch the madman here. I knew where the story was going, to a large extent I knew how it was going to end, but this made it no less terrifying. And no less mesmerising. I barely moved a muscle from beginning to end.

It was also very interesting for me because Forest Whitaker is currently on our TV screens here in the UK, playing the role of Curtis Ames in "ER" (yes, we're several months behind) and while I don't know how THAT story is going to end - I've been tempted to find out on NBC's website but I've so far resisted - his sinister performance as he seems to be stalking Luka, Abby and Joe, is similarly terrifying.

And it wasn't so long ago that he was Lt Jon Kavanaugh, Det. Vic Mackey's Internal Affairs nemesis on the groundbreaking cop drama "The Shield". He was pretty scary in that too.

But he's not always scary. I remember him in movies like "Bird", "Phone Booth" and "Waiting to Exhale" and I felt he played those roles with sympathy and humanity. He can be cuddly. He's certainly come a long way since 1992's "The Crying Game", which was where I first saw him. The fact that he's been able to convince so well in all these varied roles proves what a great actor he is and I think no one deserved the 'Best Actor' Oscar this year more than he did. This movie is all about Forest Whitaker. I think James McAvoy, Kerry Washington, Simon McBurney and Gillian Anderson all gave very good performances too but this is essentially Whitaker's movie and he's really the only one I wanted to talk about in this review. He gives the performance of a lifetime. This is a must-see and definitely one for the DVD collection.

PS. A Ugandan friend of mine who was there during the Idi Amin days, though a teenager himself, says he felt like he was watching a documentary when he saw the movie. He thinks it is a very accurate portrayal of that very complex period of Ugandan history. Forest Whitaker and all concerned should be very proud.