One scene in TOD in particular drives me crazy every time I watch this movie.  Remember when Indy, Short Round, and Willie are riding along in the rickety mining car over vast crevasses in the Temple?  Remember how deep those ravines were?  Okay, now fast forward to the next scene, where a giant bucket of water is dumped down the tunnel.  It is a big bucket, don't get me wrong, but anyone who has studied physics and spatial relations knows that the water would fill in the cracks first and there is NO WAY that the amount of water (which was much smaller than the volume of the main area of the temple which in turn is much smaller than the volume of the mining ravine) would 1. fill in all of the ravine, 2. explode with enough force to travel laterally over the ravine, or 3. come through with so much force that the water would break through the rock wall.  A couple simple changes would have made the whole thing a little more plausible: instead of a bucket, why couldn't it have been a dammed river? (And yes, I am speaking of a DAMMED river, not the vernacular).  If the dam were to burst, I would still have some objections to its plausibility but I would at least have enough to willingly suspend disbelief.  Another thing.  Indy's biggest problem would not have been rushing water, it would have been the incredible amount of STEAM!!! Remember the swirling lava at the bottom of the ravine?  But of course, steam makes make-up run and hairspray fall, so Willie couldn't have a steam bath on the side of the cliff, now could she?  It wouldn't have looked good in the previews.
By no means is that the only scene that makes me scratch my head.  The whole thing seems rather Western-centric... It seems like the message of the movie is this: "Look at those crazy brown people worshipping rocks!  Look at the disgusting things they eat!  Look at how they drink blood and rip out people's hearts... Now, hurray!  The white came and freed the savages' children... Now everybody is happy!  Isn't the white man swell?"  I'm sure that wasn't the film makers' intent but still...
All that said, I didn't hate the movie.  It has some major flaws and is by far the weakest of the three.  It seemed like it was trying too hard to out-do the original... more gross, more action, more danger, etc. and it turned out to be much much less.