For anyone who is a fan of 'alien invasion' movies, sci-fi in general, or just good-old storytelling, the original 'V' mini-series is an absolute classic.  The story begins with the arrival of 50 gigantic spacecraft over 50 major cities around the world; a civilization of human-like beings have come to ask for our aid in saving their dying planet.  Over the film's 3+ hours, our 'visitors' go from friend to foe, and humanity faces the prospect of enslavement by a facist regime, not unlike in World War II, this time on a world-wide scale.  V was (and still is) unique in its ability to weave together action and drama, along with some sci-fi elements, to create a 'morality tale' of sorts.  I must admit, there were a couple of scenes that still leave me choked up.  The mini-series debuted on NBC in the Spring of 1983 and was followed by an excellent sequel, 'The Final Battle,' a year later.  Considering the date of release, it must be mentioned that the special effects are not up to current CGI standards - don't come here expecting 'Independence Day', but there are some scenes that are still impressive, even by current standards.  This was done back in the day when you had to build all your effects from scratch and there were no computers to fall back on!  
On to the DVD release of 'V'...I must say this right now: if you're like me and you've seen V a hundred times already, you're in for a shock when you get a look at this version.  The colors are brilliant and everything is so sharply in focus...it makes my old VHS version seem like watching t.v. with plastic-wrap over the screen.  It looks that good!  The audio track has been completely remastered and the majority of the effects have been enhanced.  Every laser blast, every explosion, the whoosh of a passing fighter...it's all there, loud and clear, and in Dolby Stereo. A 25 minute 'behind the scenes' documentary is included, and while it won't tell you anything new or shocking about V, it is intriguing and adds to the value of the disc.  Last, but definitely not least, is the commentary track by writer/director Kenneth Johnson.  This WILL tell you 'new and shocking' things and is definitely a major treat for those of us who are long-time fans. 
I was about 9 years old in the Spring of '83 when the original V mini-series debuted on t.v.  Needless to say, V left a major impact on me, as much as the original 'Star Wars' movie did, if not more.  If you are a fan of V, you MUST purchase a copy of this - it's like seeing the show again for the first time. On the other hand, if you've never seen V before, if you can deal with its early-80's origins, it will no doubt move you like the rest of us.
As for myself, I have one thing to say: bring on 'The Final Battle' DVD, I'm ready! 
P.S. Oh, and one more thing...why did Jane Badler's name never become a household word?  Aside from her being devastatingly gorgeous, not to mention her chilling portrayal of the evil alien leader 'Diana', one would have expected to see more of this talented actress later on in her career.  There is no justice in this world!