I must admit that I have not read John Fante's novel on which this movie is based. The big question is, did I need to? Ask the Dust as a movie is a delightful little self-contained drama, almost a melodrama if it had not been changed for ever from being that by its ending.  It was a film never destined to be a blockbuster or win a Oscar (if that means much anyway). Nevertheless, it is a work of art and  while it may lag in places for those of short attention span, if you stay with it, the film is most entertaining. Colin Farrell is more impressive as Arturo Bandini the would-be  novelist than in his flat lead role in Alexander, and Salma  Hayek, as beautiful  as ever, playing the role of the earthy and highly sexual  Mexican waitress Camilla Lopez, whether  buck naked  in the moonlit ocean,  making soft porn love in a seaside cottage or fully clothed shod in native espadrilles serving coffee in a bar, is an excellent actress, something that was not revealed in thinner roles she  has played before such as with Antonio Banderas in  the mindless but  entertaining Desperado romp.  To her  credit it is hard to realise that Miss Hayek is ten years older than Farrell.

One does not need to be a geographer to learn  that the film story based in Southern  California in the early 1930s was actually shot in South Africa near Cape Town. This fact is revealed in the ending credits if you care to read them. Maybe it was cheaper to shoot there but more likely it was easier to capture an image of what Los Angeles may have looked like back then than any attempt to produce the film in modern day California. The desert scenes are very convincing even though a pendant might say the vegetation is not quite right, where are the Joshua trees? But that is nit picking.

There are several themes in the film which are not hard to discern. Indeed, this movie is empty of mysteries or surprises. There is much  awkwardness in the relationship between two young people who are inevitably attracted to each other and  deeply in love, although they don't realise this truth until near the end. They are always at each other's throats almost as if they are struggling to resist the deep feelings they have for one another. The meaning of the "battle of the sexes" becomes very clear. Their relationship is not only complicated by their almost virginal youth and inexperience (inevitably more in the young man than the woman) but by the fact that they both belong to "coloured" minorities; she a Mexican probably  with some Indian blood, he of  Southern Italian  parentage, both with black hair, dark eyes and swarthy complexions. she is a Lopez he a Bandini, therefore  both are liable to the open discrimination considered acceptable in the pre-holocaust era.

The youth is an aspiring but not yet successful writer of short stories, with one published in a magazine,who has yet to produce a novel (he can only type 2000 words a day or that's his excuse). He meets the beautiful  Mexican girl serving at a slightly down at heel caf&eacute; bar near the gloomy entrance to a  highway tunnel in one of the less salubrious parts of Los Angeles. Their first encounter is not encouraging, which  leads the girl to say much later  in the movie "Why do you have to be so mean when you first meet somebody?"

The theme of race also interferes in their relationship where they sling insults at each other. Camilla, an immigrant, is hoping to become a US citizen, Arturo is  already one by birth. They both desperately want to  believe in the myth of  American equality and in the US constitution which he teaches her for her citizenship exam. She is illiterate, at least in English (hardly the ideal companion of a writer,)so he also helps her in reading English via a children's illustrated book about a dog.

The young man had arrived in LA with several hundred dollars in his pocket, almost a small fortune in those days, but with virtually no income and rather wasteful habits at first so he is down to less than a single nickel (the price of a cup of coffee)when the story begins. He rents a  room in a cheap boarding house,whose grimy back abuts on a hillside. His view is of the scaly trunk of an uncared for scraggy date palm dying slowly from the already evident LA  pollution. However, the rear window of his room provides him with an escape route from the middle-aged landlady always at the front hall desk  who is after him for seriously  past due rent. When he arrives in LA- in a flashback-  and asks for a room  the landlady assumes by his colour that  he is Mexican and bluntly informs him that she doesn't  rent rooms to Jews or Mexicans but seem reassured when he tells her he is Italian (she probably doesn't know what an Italian is).The old fellow (played by Donald Sutherland) across the way is a down and out who like most of the neighbourhood  came to LA  seeking success and failed.  He owes Arturo some small change but arranges to seduce the milkman so the author can pinch a couple of bottles from the cart while the Milko is occupied. The implication, when  the dilapidated  alcoholic neighbour appears (though never spoken) is "look at me and what I am now-thus you in time will also become".  It is on the day when  the old neighbour pays back a nickel debt in coin that the story is launched as Arturo rushes off  to the nearby caf&eacute; bar for his long-awaited  luxury - a cup of coffee- where he is destined to meet Camilla.

The girl is in a somewhat better position as she has a regular though obviously low-paid job. She runs a 1927 convertible and is apparently supported by the young blond barman Harold. It is unclear what Harold's sexual preferences are and they probably don't sleep together. He is a kind of protector. Camilla reveals to Arturo that Harold suffers from tuberculosis and won't live very long. Unfortunately  once this fortuitous  piece of information was given I guessed where the film was going and how it would end.

There is one diversion which doesn't seem vitally necessary to the story line  when a good looking thirty-something  New York City exile  pursues the writer. She is a disfigured one-time wealthy  Jewess who has been evicted by her husband who could not bring himself  to accept her scarred body.  She is another LA misfit  whose passion serves the young man as a test for his real love for the Mexican girl.  The woman is conveniently  evicted again, this time  from the story itself by her sudden death in an Long Beach earthquake. The scenario of the film  is not very complex  beyond the battle of the sexes and the need for people- who did not quite fit the contemporary  image of the ideal Americana, as fair skinned, blue eyed and blond- to establish an identity as they had wrongly been induced to believe that they were somehow inferior.

Unlike King of the Hill, (itself a movie  perhaps  too glossy to describe the reality of that era despite the "Hoovervilles" in it), Ask the Dirt is not a tale of the 1930s economic depression.  While late for the rent at the beginning  neither Arturo or Camilla are ranked with  the homeless who briefly appear in the movie. True  Arturo is often skint, but he is  saved from destitution  by an unexpected cheque from his  magazine  publisher.  At the very end of the film he is apparently wealthy and successful but that is an add-on which has  little or nothing to do with the story.

The cinematography is superb and the low key jazzy guitar music on the background  soundtrack  is haunting and appropriate to the setting. If you don't believe me just Ask the Dust! Altogether a good, though not a great movie.