The team of Marquette & Juran/Hertz enjoyed making The Brain From Planet
Arous enough to pool their talent resources again for Attack of The 50'
Woman.  This potboiler takes us to the desert, where greed, illicit aff-
airs, jealousy, deceit and finally murder destroy the lives of folks in
a small desert community.  Oh did I mention dancing deputies, 30' tall
tranparent aliens who shop at Big & Tall S&M shops. No? Then I should.

Aside from the giant alien, who's estimated time of crashing is accurately
predicted by the local TV newsman, with the aid of a cheapo globe prop.
This is a sad yarn of unrequited love.  The victim of "Handsome Harry's"
charm is a love sick dipsomaniac who thrives on abuse, castigated by all,
even mocked and taunted by the above mentioned newsman during a live
TV broadcast.  Incidentally she's worth a whopping fifty million USD,
which one could not swallow judging by the interior of her "palatial
mansion."  Her cheating husband and his mistress plot her demise in
Tony's, a watering hole where they spend far too much time, with little or
any discretion.  In fact anything goes at Tony's, later in the picture
everything goes at Tony's.  Through a wound the Mrs. sustains with her
not so frightening encounter with the alien, her pituitary gland flares
up and she grows to a staggering height of 50', the odd thing is that
she's a full 20' taller than the alien who infected her.  The finest
doctor is summoned, you know he's good he speaks with a Central European
accent, and he figures out this rapid growth problem.  You guessed it,
RADIATION.  One night Harry goes out on a tear at Tony's, he's lapping up
booze, smoking Chesterfields and making out with his floozy co-conspirator
Fifty foot Nancy is confined to the house and heavily sedated.  When the
morphine wears off she pines for Harry.  Busting loose she finds him at
the usual place and murders both the cheating bum and his slimy girl
friend.  The unhappy ending is diappointing because we sympathise with
Nancy.  She is after all afflicted with alcoholism, married to a no-
account hustler and didn't exactly volunteer for her pituitary condition.
Despite all her sorrows, they find it necessary to electrocute her in the
final scene.  I guess that's show biz.

What I particularly admire are the signature touches of Marquette&Hertz,
in this picture.  Peering at faces through giant fishbowls is once again
a major triumph.  Nancy's enormous paw is shaky-jake, clearly an indica-
tion that she was still troubled by her addictions, right up to the end.
If the movie was as good as the poster art I would have added another
star.  It's rumored that that poster inspired an automotive engineer to
design the sun-roof.  Take a look, you won't be disappointed, at the movie
that is.