The Hustler spotlights one of Paul Newman's finest performances in his portrayal of  Fast Eddie Felson, an arrogant, amoral pool hustler who's determined to be the greatest pool player in the country by beating the legendary Minnesota Fats (played flawlessly by Jackie Gleason).  
The film is a gritty, uncompromising character study and tragic love story that is set in the world of pool hustlers. Piper Laurie; as an alcoholic floozy who falls hard for Fast Eddie; and George C. Scott as the cold hearted manipulative gambler, Bert Gordon,-- contribute two additional flawless supporting performances. It was directed by the controversial Robert (All the King's Men) Rossen (he resisted but eventually named names during the infamous blacklist of the 50's).
The film focuses on the arrogant, unsympathetic exploits of a con man as he uses his charm, looks and pool playing skills to hustle enough money to challenge Minnesota Fats, only to be humiliated in defeat.  As 'Fast Eddie' attempts to raise money for a re-match, he meets and almost falls in love with Sarah a fellow alcoholic.  At first Fast Eddie refuses to be managed by Bert Gordon, but after a pool hall hustle ends up with Fast Eddie having his thumbs broken, he reconsiders. Before the re-match with Minnesota Fats, a warm up high stakes game in Louisville has tragic consequences.
The film dares to focus on a-typical anti-hero characters who live by amoral codes.  Very little Hollywood style gloss is to be found anywhere in this stylistic gritty masterpiece which wound up being nominated for 10 Academy Awards (West Side Story won most of them that year). Cinematographer Eugene Shufftan deservedly won an Oscar for his moodily lit, beautiful black and white images. Harry Horner's and Gene Callahan's intricately art direction, production design and set decoration were also awarded with Oscars. Pool legend Willie Mosconi taught Newman how to look and act the part of a pool hustler and also made Newman's trick shots in the film.  Jackie Gleason was already an excellent pool player.  There really was an Aames pool hall in New York City and it is used for the film's most riveting scenes.  Boxer Jake LaMotta (of 'Raging Bull' fame) plays a bartender in the film.
Director Rossen who began his career as a screenwriter made only one other film (1964's Lilith) after 'The Hustler'. Rossen died in 1966.  Martin Scorcese directed the 1986 sequel Color of Money, with Newman reprising his Fast Eddie role (and this time Newman won a best Actor Oscar for his efforts) as he teaches an up and coming hustler (Tom Cruise) the ropes.  The sequel doesn't come close to being as good as the original (despite its stylistic flourishes, cast and director). 
Interesting to note that the characters in The Hustler were fictitious and an above average pool player legally changed his name to Minnesota Fats AFTER the film was released.  The real life 'Minnesota Fats' eventually played a nationally televised (hosted by Howard Cosell) pool exhibition with William Mosconi in the 1970's more than 10 years after this 1961 film.  
DVD IMAGE AND SOUND
The film has been digitally re-mastered in  2.35:1 anamorphic widescreen.  The films  looks to be in excellent shape with very little print damage observed.  The look of the film is smoky and gritty and the shadow details are rich indicating strong black levels present. This is a very sharp looking black and white film.  The sound will not impress but the dialogue, sound effects and occasional music is crisp and usually centered..

DVD EXTRA'S
In addition to two trailers for the film, there are a few interesting featurettes  some production stills and the superb commentary track.
Richard Schickel hosts the too short documentary The Hustler: The Inside Story which gives us some details on how the film came to be made, and delivers some we were there stories from some of the film-makers and a few surprise guests.  
 "How to Make the Shot," and "Trick Shot Analysis by World Artistic Champion, Mike Massey"
are two shorts demonstrating and showing viewers how to make some trick shots on the pool table.  
There is a superb commentary track which features the reminisces, and perspectives from actors:  Paul Newman, and Stefan Gierash (Preacher),  Dede Allen (film editor), Ulu  Grosbard (assistant director), Carol Rossen (the director's daughter), Richard Schickel (film critic, Time), and Jeff Young (film historian).  The comments cover all aspects of the making of the film.  Newman's comments as one might expect are few.
The film looks and sounds great, the extras compliment the classic film  very well.  Along with Hud, and Nobody's Fool, The Hustler has,  what for me, is one of the three best Newman performances on film.  Considering the supporting cast are superb, there's little for anyone to fault with this film.  
Christopher  J. Jarmick, is the author of The Glass Cocoon with Serena F. Holder a critically acclaimed, steamy suspense thriller...