Before we start. I want to affirm that I love this film.  Great script, great performances, great soundtrack, great directing.
Also, regardless of the negative feedback I give this DVD, we are unfortunately obligated to buy it, if we ever want to see a special edition DVD.
Ok, here goes.  Yeah it looks great.  But it just felt wrong.  I couldn't place the reason.  I thought maybe it was a visual matter.  But I quickly realized that what was bugging me was the soundtrack.  It was inexplicably, utterly mangled.
Will someone tell me why?  Why were the vocals for whole songs removed?  I am sorely disappointed and angered by this.  I am outraged by the George Lucas style of re-working your film for DVD, and abandoning the original theatrical cut.  If you feel the need to improve your film, fine, provide an alternate cut, or additional scenes, or whatever, that's great.  Give me the option on the menu to see the "improved version, or the regular cut.  But don't alter a classic, and not even mention it and try to pass it off as the original.
There are so many examples of this butchering, that I can't name them all. I only watched it once last night, and am at work now, but a few definitely come to mind.
#1 The scene where Trash and Suicide and the gang are speeding towards the cemetery used to have the Damned song Dead Beat Dance as the background music.  Well, not anymore!  You get the inital maniacal laugh, and then nothing, a completely different song.  Why?!
#2 The scene where the zombie says: "send more cops", with a thick new york accent.  A classic scene right?  We all loved it right?  Well did you notice that they changed the voice?  Did you notice that is was awful in comparison, and not nearly as funny?  Was there a good reason for this sacrilege?  Has Dan O'Bannon lost his mind, or was this the studios fault? In the end credits, where the best-of scenes replay a second time, we hear the "send more cops" line in all its original glory.  So I know I am not imagining this.
#3 What's his name, the Pathmark guy (no slight intended, his performance was excellent), takes his own life by placing himself in the crematorium.  In the original version of this scene is accompanied by the song Burn the Flames, which sports a haunting guitar solo at the exact moment the door shuts and we hear the man's tortured screams.  It is actually one of my favorite scenes in the film.  The haunting music enhances the sadness of the moment.
But not anymore.  Now the music is faded out in a particularly unartistic way, and the scene plays silent.  Sorry but this is a disgrace.  I waited years for this film to be re-released and I feel betrayed.  The soundtrack was perfect the way it was.  In a different film it would not be as a big of a deal.  But when you are the ONLY zombie/comedy/horror film with a punky soundtrack, and a damned good one, and everyone loves you for it, you don't go around meddling and altering, deleting and rewriting, compiling and defiling.
It go to the point where I held my breath with every song change, worried sick that they would ommit lyrics or do away with the track altogether.  Waves of relief washed over me when I reached the scene where the zombies are attacking the funeral home (and our heroes are furiously nailing doors and windows shut)and I discovered that the Cramps song "Surfin Dead" was left intact.  Thank god, or the devil, for that one.
Could I be wrong?  Did I miss some sort of soundtrack feature, where mistakenly clicked something off or on?  Or is the sad fact that this movie has been permanently altered...?