The Searchers: Ultimate Edition

For most John Wayne fans this is the one JW movie that is the best and hands down there favorite.  So lets review the Ultimate Editon DVD.

First the Packaging:

It's a very nice looking box brown carboard kinda looks like leather. Personally for 29.99 it should be in real leather or at least a better binding. No to say its not nice but its cardboard and I personally don't care for card board cases I rather have the plastic ones they tend to hold up better. Inside you will find 2 discs  and some extras.

Disc 1:

The movie one of the best westerns ever filmed finally gets a great transfer and looks the best I have ever seen it owning the original dvd release you will be happy to know its not a flip disc and is presented in widescreen the way it should be seen the it was shot. The story is around the search for a woman kidnapped by native Americans on the plains and Wayne plays one of the darkest and most deep characters in cinema history. You want to hate him, then u pity him, and u end up just feeling sad that you know there no place for him in the time the movie is set. The way ford shot the violence without showing a thing makes for a haunting picture, a movie you won't soon forget.

The Sound is stunning for a movie of its age they did a remarkle 5.1 mix its crisp clear and makes for the total package

There is also a Commentary by Peter Bogdanovich that for the most part seems irrelevant mainly cause only john ford and john wayne would do for this though he is kinda interesting at time but you won't listen twice.

Disc2:

 The Extras

 The Searchers An Appreciation:

 This Featurette explores the movie and how actors and others feel about this movie and its location the duke and location interesting but again you won't watch it twice.

 A Turning of the Earth John Ford & John Wayne and the Searchers

 Some interesting info but all in all starts repeating what they said in the first one. You won't watch this one twice either

 The Assasination of Jesse James

 First the movie theater now the dvd COMMERCIAL IGNORE IT.

Now the other extras more stuff your don't need there to separate insert boxes with stuff in them the first one has

A comic book.

Its just the movie in comic book form

A book of clipping

It has all the info of the searchers from the time newspaper clipping poster ads lots of stuff  they are both small about 5 by 8.

The Other Box

It has  2 interoffice memos about the concerns over the movie nice read

And 10 photos from location all 5 by 8's I guess u could frame these and have them they are glossy and nice but all in all not really needed either

So in conclution it's a DVD set but its not worth $29 of $31 if you want this one I recommend getting it like I did in the John Wayne John Ford Collection. Other wise get the Two Disc Anniversary Edition. Or do what I usually do wait 6 months and get them from a seller for 10 bucks. If you own the original flip disc this makes it look like its illegitimate counsin on you moms side that no one talks about so it does improve it.