I can understand why people dislike this movie. The jokes are not in your face, laugh out loud gut busters. The characters are one-dimensional. The "special effects" are cheesy. The plot situations are contrived and artificial. If you're looking for conventional filmmaking, don't bother with this film.

I love this movie. It's what I call a "Zen movie" meaning that to enjoy it, you should simply sit back and let yourself be drawn into the film. Don't think about or analyze what you're seeing. Just let it happen. It all makes sense in its own way, in its own context.

Bill Murray is brilliant in his portrayal of someone who is old enough to recognize and accept his shortcomings and those of everyone around him. He realizes that he can't change and he can't change his wife or companions, so he has to find a way to make do with what he is and what they are. Ned's (Owen Wilson arrival presents an opportunity for change and Zissou tries, but in the end he knows its useless. Instead, Zissou embraces the flaws and quirks of "Team Zissou" and accepts that they are bound together like a very tight knit family.

They are what they are and they accept it.

The pursuit of the shark allows Zissou to discover that he is not crazy, that for all of his failings and his diminished stature in the public eye he still is capable of being right and that he has value as an individual. He's not just a washed up middle-aged has-been with a failed marriage and a drinking habit. He is a human being, flawed but decent. He represents the imperfect reality of life rather than an idealized and fictitious version of what a man is supposed to be.

All of this plays out in a fanciful world where conventional reality is unimportant. It doesn't matter that the undersea shots are cheesy or that the motivations of all of the characters are not fully understood. All of this serves as a blank canvas or scaffolding to support the immediate present of the movie. The past and future don't matter.

Live in the moment of the film and you will enjoy it.