this movie was one i looked forward to ... finally, i hoped at least, a movie with the facts and hopefully an exciting movie about the greatest fighter pilot ...

but no ... alas ... this is not even close

much like the recent 'Sherlock Holmes' tripe starring Robert Downey Jr., this movie has as much to do with the real Red Baron as I had to do with WWI ... in Sherlock Holmes the characters are there but the resemblance to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's seminal mysteries ends there ... nothing is even close to the legendary writings ... good god Watson had his revolver out and was squeezing off round after round more in the first 30 minutes of the movie that he ever did in the whole of the Holmes stories ... shameful and disconcerting frankly ... if they wanted to make a Victorian Era detective story where they act like it's a modern american cop shot 'em up, then call it "A Victorian Era Detective Shoot 'Em Up" and not Sherlock Holmes ... it's unfortunate nothing can be done to stop these 'crimes against legends' ... and frankly it is just insulting to any fan of the doyle stories that they think some hollywood hack screenwriter can come up with a better mystery than the originals ... now we have a new young generation that thinks sherlock and watson were running around shooting up london, having titillating sexual escapades, and basically look like every other cop movie that comes out of hollywood

one saving grace for that movie and this one is however the CGI FX

while in between battles in the sky, this Red Baron leads a life no one who has ever picked up a book on WWI aviation would recognize BUT the cgi planes and dogfights are pretty spectacular ... it's nice also they did some research into the myriad of the personalized paint jobs given to so many planes ... they really do look spectacular and they give you a sense of what it must have been like in the skies over europe during those years ... the shot of Richthofen's Albatross with the first red paint job is one i screen captured and use for wallpaper on my computer ... they got it right too right down to the paint being applied over the german cross and the white outline on the side as they did not bother to paint around it ...

so how can they get a detail like that, minor and not well-known, right and fill the rest of the film with complete crap?? i don't know ... it really is amazing that they also think they can invent a more exciting life than the Red Baron himself led? seriously? this guy was the greatest fighter pilot of all time ... he literally wrote the book on dog fighting ... why does hollywood always seem to think they can 'improve' on a legend?

so fast forward thru the embarrassing 'real life' parts and get to the dogfights ... really amazing work on those ... but now we'll have to wait another 20 years for the next effort since if anyone brings up the Red Baron as an idea for a movie, the hollywood executives will say "oh no, we're not making another movie about that .. .the last one we made didn't make any money ... that guy is boring and people don't want to see a movie about him"

no, people do want to see a movie about him ... in fact, they are still waiting for it

so two stars for the cgi guys who really did spectacular work