I purchsed the Blu ray set of this feature and have not seen the DVD version. As others have mentioned, this set contains a Blu ray with the main programs and extras and a DVD version that includes a digital copy. I was not able to import the digital copy version off the DVD. The Blu ray was outstanding, picture quality and sound were excellent. The programs included are:

Behind the Scenes - Disneyland and California Adventure
There are features on many popular attractions in both parks. The focus is more on the rides, revisions of attractions and upcoming attractions, shows and features. This is a new edition, not like the Modern Marvels version that focuses mainly on the history of the parks. It covers the technological advances of ride technology, how selected rides work, how attractions were updated and plans for new attractions, shows and features in California Adventure like Cars the ride, the World of Color (which opens this summer), new boardwalk games and other things in the works.

Undiscovered Disney Parks
This is a must see. This program contains tips on services and features the average park goer doesn't know about. Some of the tips I knew but several I did not know. Walt Disney World has a design your own coaster attraction where you can select from several different ride environments, as well as the thrill level you wouldl like to have (would you like to go upside down, fast turns, etc), magic hours available to guests who stay at the Disney hotels, free Disney transportation to the parks, VIP tours (behind the scenes and help with getting your fastpass and other goodies).

Ultimate Walt Disney World
Again, not the same as the Modern Marvels or Travel Channel versions of Disney World that you may have seen. I have seen both programs and felt that they didn't spend enough time on the thrill rides. Ultimate Walt Disney World is the answer to that question. You go behind the scenes and on the best thrill rides including Test Track, Rockin Rollercoaster with Aerosmith, Expedition Everest (did you know part of the ride goes backwards?!) and other favorites along with informative information on how the rides were created.

The Extras
Walt Disney's Apartment in Disneyland (look for the light in the window above the fire station on Main Street)
King Arthour Carrousel
Disney Resort Hotels (great info for trip planning)
Tips for Travelers (more great features for your vacation)
Disney Dream (the new Disney Cruise Ship)
Disney Dream AquaDuck (the first water thrill ride on a cruise ship!)
Haunted Mansion (new features added!)
Goofy's Barnstormer coaster for kids
Catastrophe Canyon (behind the scenes on the tram ride, some guests get to participate in the action)

This set is from Questar Entertainment. I have seen several Questar programs and have learned to look for them. They offer high quality entertaining programs on Blu ray. The Scenic National Parks Blu rays are a must have.

I highly recommend this Disney set, this is far better than I expected.