The idea of a mail-order bride is something that a surprising amount of men consider at one point or another.  How many of those men actually act on it is a different story.  Whatever the case may be, director Jez Butterworth's new film, "Birthday Girl", explores the possibilities of everything that could go wrong with a bride that one has to pay for.  It's been said before, and it will be said again:  Crossing genre lines can be an extremely risky undertaking, with the results often ending up disastrous.  That is not the case with "Birthday Girl", which carefully treads the border between lighthearted romantic comedy and dark crime drama.  The transition from one to the other is rather steep, but it makes itself work due to the amazing script by Jez and Tom Butterworth.  The brothers balance every part of their film to prevent any one aspect from becoming too overpowering.  When it seems like the "dark side" is taking over, they kick in a little notch of sly comedy or some playful banter between the two leads.  The first twenty minutes of the film is the romance section.  It's cute at times, and, at other times, very sensual.  The romance here is very believable, despite the farfetched conditions that led up to it.  When the thriller part takes over, the picture just continues to shine, allowing more room for the main characters to gain some depth.  Ben Chaplin gives a decent performance, but he is sort of passive to begin with anyway.  It's actually quite hard to pinpoint specific emotions that he portrays throughout the film because he almost always looks the same.  It's not a terrible performance by any means, but it in no way compares to that of Nicole Kidman.  Nic is perfection.  She brings an incredibly human quality to a character that would have otherwise been cursory.  Kidman's Nadia is an exotic kitten - mischievous, deceiving, and ....  She is a truly awesome actress.  "Birthday Girl" is the first great film of 2002.  It's a mesmerizing and seductive masterpiece that works impeccably as both a romantic comedy and a thriller.  Throw in Nic Kidman, and, pretty soon, people are going to start saying, "She was married to Tom WHO?"