Your views on the Iraq War will have a definite impact on whether or not you like this film.  If you are against the U.S. involvement, then the plight of the main characters will move you because you can blame the government for destroying young lives, and probably love the film.  If you support the war, then you will want Sgt. King (Ryan Phillippe's character) captured and court-martialed. Since that doesn't happen, you will probably hate the film. Either way, this film will bring out the emotions.

The film has four weaknesses. First, we don't know the motivations behind King's decision, and I don't think the viewer was supposed to guess.  Was it fear, was it guilt, was it selfishness, was it because he felt duped, was it all four?

Second, King visits the parents of deceased soldiers and visits one who is severly wounded, but will live.  I thought this was gratuitous, and the subliminal message these scenes conveyed was that U.S. involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan is wrong.

Third, King going AWOL seemed a contrived way of him visiting the families of deceased soldiers and his friend at the VA hospital.

Fourth, the main theme of the film is the political message, so the context which is was presented around, such as the adjusting to life, the other soldiers who didn't get stop-lossed got ignored.

That said, the strength of the film was in the performances. I think Ryan Phillippe is one of the most underrated actors around today.  I dare say, he is the James Cagney or Robert De Niro of his generation. I did have issues with this character's motivation, but I connected with him nevertheless. Channing Tatum and Joseph Gordon-Levitt both gave strong performances, which led to a weakness of the film; I wanted to see more of their characters, and their stories. And Victor Rasuk, in a small role, also connected with me. Despite the underlying message, I thought the "sad scenes" with the family and hospital visits were touching.

The dvd also has some extras which add value to the film, ie, if I saw it in the theatres, I'd have given it a three.  The deleted scenes answers some questions I had about the plot, and the making of and the day in boot camp were also informative.