"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" (1998)
 ... This movie is cheesy, unrealistic and downright silly, but I loved the first movie, and Jennifer Love Hewitt is irresistible. I know I usually have a different word to everyone else on these types of movies, but if I enjoy myself, that is how I base my rating. This movie is my one of my best guilty pleasures, and I don't care what everyone else thinks, I enjoy watching it and that's me.
 Now ... why do I like this movie? There are many reasons. For starters, it's got everything a fun teen slasher requires. Lots of big breasts, reasonably good acting, truckloads of gore, unpredictable twists and turns, some big laughs, a scary killer and a brilliant setting. To add to that, the movie never stops with the scares, is never boring and had something that I really appreciated. In some teen slashers (Urban Legends: Final Cut especially) the main characters really don't really seem to care after their friends/people have been killed. In I Still Know What You Did Last Summer; Julie James is a very respectable character. She stills mourns for those she has lost and those she may lose. I was actually shocked with the amount of emotion the movie put on when showing Julie's new life and what she goes through.
The acting in the film is satisfactory for a horror film. Jennifer Love Hewitt returns as Julie James and once again she proves she's not just about looks, this girl can act. I want to see her give a performance that can give that idea more justice, not just horror movies please! Still she is good as Julie. Freddie Prinze, Jr. also returns and he has improved his acting skills. He puts on a solid performance. Brandy is very eager in the material and her performance worked for me. Mekhi Phifer had me rolling in the aisles with his fun performance as Brandy's horny boyfriend. I also enjoyed the underused Jennifer Esposito as the bartender on the island, and Jeffrey Combs' breakaway as the ruthless hotel owner. Muse Watson is scary and evil again, his facials are fantastic, but every time the guy talks I cringe. I just can't take his lines that seriously. Bill Cobbs is merely okay as the weird guy on the island who is suspected as the killer.
Danny Cannon's direction of the movie deserves recognition. The guy makes sure the movie looks great and brings tonnes of atmosphere to the movie. The killing scenes are done to perfection. I was glad he didn't just take the point-and-shoot routine that many horror movies use these days. Cannon put effort into his surroundings. Unfortunately the film editing is pretty atrocious. The characters' mouths move a lot when they're not saying anything, and injuries are cleared up very easily, like in one shot the person is hit hard with something, and then in the next shot they're running like hell and not even a bruise. Think about the editing techniques next time, Dan.
Trey Callaway's script is not perfect. While he does mix in freaky-as-hell horror with funny-as-hell comedy quite well with some great in-jokes and an excellent setting for a horror film, there is not much depth or range in the film. He does make sure all the possibilities are used for the killing scenes and horror action, but if Kevin Williamson had written this sequel, I feel it would've been a little more plausible. If you've seen the end of I Know What You Did Last Summer you'll know what I'm talking about, Ben Willis just couldn't of survived.
Bad editing, some silly dialogue, unanswered questions and cheesy lines do stop the movie from being great. There is also not enough depth to the film and damn, what was the final scene all about? But, excuse that and you've got what is my favourite guilty pleasure at the moment, and a fun slice of harmless horror.
MY GRADE: B