Warner has done a wonderful job remastering these time-tested classics, cherished by both
the young and the young at heart. Beginning with "It's the Great Pumpkin Charlie Brown",
this is the hands-down best looking version out there. Nicely restored intro and exits
from the original commercial spots are a highlight too! Many versions actually lop-off
cues, which was horrible to me. Even that hard splice just before THE END pops up is fixed!
The improved definition is noticeable right away with the opening scene where Lucy plops
the pumpkin down on the living room rug before carving into it. The rug pattern presents
a complex pattern, which looked either normally washed out or has a moire' pattern (on dvd).
Here it is rock-steady! The original mono audio should have been included though, as the
creation of a stereo surround mix actually muffles it's clarity.

  For "Thanksgiving" the overall image is more subdued and soft, but that is how I always
remember it. The added clarity and color are strong and make a solid impression. This is
a close second to the Halloween special, but holds a special place in my heart. The audio mix
is much better this time around, although would it have killed Warner to include the mono track?
You get a second Special: "The Mayflower Voyagers" which is always welcome!

  "A Charlie Brown Christmas" is the crown in the collection and looks quite nice on Blu Ray!
There is a fair amount of print damage, so expect that. Audio is decent, but still falls
rather flat. No version (including this one) offers the complete original broadcast version.
But the majority of the cuts were sponsor trims (Coca-Cola was the first sponsor).
The scene where the kids are throwing snowballs at a can (of Coca-Cola originally)is here,
but has a generic label can now. Linus crashing into a fence with a Coke sign
is still MIA.  This message driven Special has always worked, but it rings even more true as
the times get more challenging. A true classic in every sense of the term. The "collection"
on Blu Ray is a much better value than buying them individually, as it will cost nearly twice
as much buying them singly. No Holiday tradition is richer than sharing these classics with the
family each year. The inclusion of "It's Christmastime again, Charlie Brown" is a welcome addition.