It's obvious that this film neglected a great portion of the vast and varied types of "phish fans," but it would be impossible to display them all in 84 minutes, especially since the film is actually about the band itself.  The filmmakers overlooked, much to my chagrin, the sober fans who are often shunned among the "phan" community simply because of a personal choice.  Nevertheless, the film acheives what it set out to (with a few slight shortcomings).
Some have been disappointed by the prevelance of Trey in the film and the seeming  disregard of Page, Mike, and Fish.  This "problem" is addressed in the interview with Todd Phillips.  It turns out that Trey was, as we all know, more outgoing and willing to be on camera and participate with the producers and director.  Though Fish will easily expose his body to thousands of people, he's not one for gratuitous verbal exposition.  Page just likes to sit in his own little corner and do his own thing.  Mike seems to have some self-esteem issues.  These all impede the complete portrayal of the band's personal lives.
Personally, I watched this film for no reason other than the music.  As a bonus, I received: insight into Trey's humanity and difficult blend of sensibility and idealism; some spontaneous and completely genuine laughs; a brief peek at what goes on backstage; the knowledge of how Trey honestly feels about music in general and the music that he creates; and so much more.
With all of this though, the film would only appeal to persons who are already fans of Phish.  It is when Trey goes into exmination of modern music culture (in his SUV, after reading the concert reviews) and of the familiar underdog and hopeless dreamer (on the golf cart, just before the final concert footage), that the film reaches beyond the parameters of Phishdom.  These sentiments are so commonly felt by everyone, especially those who express themselves artistically, that they can affect the most avid fan of popular music, breaking through the illusive barriers of arrogance and disdain.