Dustin Hoffman's poignant introduction reveals his passion that young people today never forget the  horrors of the holocaust.  To my surprise, the film proved to be a most riveting and attention-holding movie, "The Devil's Arithmetic" is geared to teenagers.

Modern teenager Hannah Stern, feeling no attachment to her religion, resents being made to participate in her Aunt Eva's Passover celebrations,. As her relatives, all concentration camp survivors, try to recount their experiences, Hannah turns away, bored. All of this changes as Hannah is chosen to perform the ritual act of opening the door for the Prophet Elijah--instead of the hallway of her aunt's apartment, Hannah is transported to rural Jewish Poland, circa 1941.

Hannah attempts to make sense of her old life, and the girl her new Polish "family" expects her to be. As time passes, Hannah and her cousin Rivkah explore the town before attending a wedding, at which point Nazis round up the wedding guests and load them onto trucks going to the concentration camp
If ever a theme of love, sacrifice, and the horror of hatred needed portrayal outside the realm of religion, one could not do much better than to show this film. What Hannah does for her best friend at the movie's conclusion is as gut-wrenching as it is predictable, and Nazi treatment of the Jews is brutally captured with appropriate reserve--no easy task! In the end, a young Jewish girl who began only with an interest in tattoos learns the lessons of history, tradition, and above all--life's priorities. In a nutshell, how lives and a culture can change in an instant is the strength of "The Devil's Arithmetic".
Be very sure--this film will make a powerful impact on young teens! The dropping of the gas pellets at the conclusion of the dream sequence is intense...very intense. Yet how can the Holocaust be portrayed without such reality? With younger teenagers, take care that background preparation, as well as a reflective time for discussion is provided.