I am not going to say anymore about Ichi the Killer other than you need to see it (if you find foreign cinema to be at least entertaining if not mentally engaging). I am in total agreement with the person who wrote the latest review (overview?) of Miikes work. It seems to me that if you cant find Miikes films to be the least bit fun than how could you possibly appreciate Francos, Rollins, or Arrabals (just to name a few directors) more personal filmmaking. You see (and NONE of you can disagree with me) Miike in general is not a personal filmmaker (there is one exception which I will mention later). He makes his films on the basis that the audience wants to be entertained and on that premise he delivers. So to me it seems to be a total and absolute paradox that some of you could literally watch ANY film and actually derive any entertainment from it what so ever if you cant through Miike. Esotericism,iconoclasm,political and all other forms of more philosophical and idealized filmmaking would be based far too much in psychology rather than in the viscerality of violence and images for you to comprehend let alone enjoy, so where is the middle ground for you? Basically, what im trying to say is that Miike makes his films  with the help of the rudimentary building block of all movies and does it the best of any director. And if you cant see that in his repertoire please dont try to see it in any films that deal with a subject matter that is even the least bit profound in its implications. If you can watch, lets say Fudoh, and see and respect it for what it is than there probably wont be any tribulations to you watching Viva la Muerte or a film of higher meaning. But as is very obvious to me most of you are either totally arrogant or backwards in the way you view not only Miikes films but really the essence of a single image of any movie flittering across the screen. Watch it for what it is, if theres symbolism interpret it to the best of your ability, if its a film that at its core is just trying to entertain like Miikes films, than just be entertained and if you cant than turn it off. I am so unbelievably tired of hearing how some of you watch his films to the end and then try to justify why hes  not a "good" filmmaker (hey man if you dont like it dont watch it, just save your breath). What is a good filmmaker to you? Is martin scorsese good, maybe. Was he really being anything but inept when he rehashed the exact same idea with three of his films(casino, goodfellas, and the godfather) without any attempt at visualisation. Absolutely not. Miike might use simplistic and similar plots for most of his yakuza films but, jesus, at least he doesnt use dead pan direction. Its adrenaline, its violence, its against formality and yes contary to some it IS entertaining. I would really like to hear what some of you visagal fans of Miike have to say about my little essay. Do you agree with me that Miike is an across-the-board director who really shouldnt have limits to who finds his films worth while or is he a filmmaker that only a select few can truly appreciate? Hopefully a realisation will occur among some of you that his work is the closest youre going to get to watching a movie that isnt concerned with a higher meaning or of something other than being just unforgettably entertaining. And when this does happen maybe you will be able to start viewing this and all films with less of a closed mind and be more susceptible to the power of what is, not what could have been. I might as well mention that Miikes film Audition does have a sociological comment behind it which seems to pertain to the male/female parallel in Japan. Whether this was intentional or not I can not say. But it is evidence that Miike is a very acclimatable filmmaker who can surely branch off into different genres and types of filmmaking if necessary. But I personally encourage him to keep at what hes doing. "When you put the emphasis on the images of a movie there is no boundary to what can be expressed", that came from the mans own mouth. I advise you to watch his films with that in mind or dont watch them at all. P.S. I would really like you guys who disagree with one or more aspects of my article to write a review and list what you think about my perception (hell I might be pretentious but you and I both know Im right). Give me your best shot turkeys! Oh yeah, just in case you havent realised, this text that I wrote isnt so much of an introspective or informative view on miike (thats not what I intended) as it is a nice big neon lit F U in bold face letters to all you popos who think miike is either convuluted or contrived, what a joke. The goal of this text is  to get as many of you to disagree with me as possible. So start racking them up. Lets see how many of you NEED to approach Miike with trepidation.