In the choosing  of documentary  films  commenting directly on the coming  environmental crisis  this DVD worked, the choice of inserting with these films,  anti-American and mock-u-mentary of  non- "greepeacers "was the truly stupid part.

For example there's the heart breaking story of an Iraqi family in Jordan blaming America for their  refugee situation  ( and by implication  the US for starting an "oil"  War). But what about the human rights and environmentalism of  their  local  tribal Government i.e  Saddam  and friends ? All I am  saying, is  if you wish to explore the cruelty and greed of the middle eastern region, do so properly and not with such a obviously bias anti-Americanism.  If anything it actually distracted from the more important point of how nations could possibly divide the natural resources.

Next we have the "happy" environmentalists exploring shrinking  Glaciers in France  and being oh so eco-friendly in their Cornwall farm. Blasting a community living far away in the midlands for not wanting  his wind turbines. If they really wanted to reduce the carbon footprint why not live amongst the people they  are trying to educate ? Typical hypocrisy of thumbing their  lily white noses at  folks poorer than themselves and then retreating  back to their very expensive clean private estate. Hmmm didn't see any Windmill farms from his bedroom windows...

The programs raised some very difficult and important issues, that was the thought provoking and positive parts. But in conclusion it offered not a single workable solution just dire warnings. Okay it's a concern having India starting to develop cheap Airline travel, but whats the answer ? Tell them no, we demand cheap, convenient  and plentiful flights , but you developing nations  stick to the trains and buses ? Close the tunnels in the Alps so the snow will come back ?

In the end the film will probably be seen as wonderful for those  already in the filmmakers camp, but as a piece challenging the majority of the planet. It will sadly be rightly branded as stupid propaganda..