Mad Money is one of those movies that I really expected to like.  I figured there was just no way to go wrong with a comedy that included the likes of Diane Keaton, Ted Danson, Queen Latifah and Katie Holmes in its cast.  But I was wrong; they managed to find a way.

The basic premise of the movie is a good one: a man (Ted Danson) nearing retirement age suddenly finds himself the victim of corporate downsizing and unable to find another job.  He and his wife (Diane Keaton) have lived the good life for a long time and she is shocked when he confesses that they are in debt up to their eyeballs and about to lose the mansion they live in.  In desperation, the Keaton character takes a janitor's job at a Federal Reserve Bank, where the sight of all that old, worn-out paper money headed for the shredder is more than she can stand.

Immediately coming up with a scheme to smuggle bundles of the old bills out of the bank, she is able to convince two key co-workers (Queen Latifah and Katie Holmes) to join her in what becomes an almost-daily bank robbery.  The men in their lives, when they finally find out what is going on, are happy enough to go along for the ride.

The writers of this movie want viewers to see this as some kind of victimless crime.  After all, the money the women steal is going to be destroyed anyway and the member banks have already received replacement currency.  That idea would supposedly allow viewers to see the thieves and their men as sympathetic (and funny) characters.  And, in the case of the Queen Latifah character, a single mother who agrees to play a key role in the thefts in order to get cash to put her two sons into a private school, I did feel some sympathy.

But it didn't work as regards the other two ladies, especially the Keaton character that displays a huge amount of greed and manages to bully everyone else into continuing the scam even when everyone involved wants to walk away from the crime but her.  My dislike of that character will be what I remember most about what should have been a light-hearted comedy.

On the plus side, I enjoyed the Ted Danson and Queen Latifah performances, as well as those of two members of the supporting cast, Roger Cross and Stephen Root.  In fact, Root, as the bank manager, has one of the funniest roles in the movie.  The quality of the DVD itself is good, both the picture and the sound, and while there are not many DVD special features, it does include commentary from the director and a "making of" feature.

On the negative side, the movie's ending felt like an afterthought that was tacked onto it at the last minute and the Keaton character was extremely irritating.  The movie has some funny moments that would have been greatly helped by a "softening" of that character.  All in all, not a terrible movie, but one that's not what it could have been.