To be honest, I watched this movie for one reason: Seth Green. However, I found the movie quite enjoyable. Not a perfect film--Chloë Sevigny's and Dylan McDermott's characters felt underdeveloped to me and some of the character intrusion and narration seemed unnecessary--but a fascinating, entertaining and funny movie, nonetheless.
Seth Green did not disappoint me. His portrayal of James St. James is excellent and his passion and devotion to the role apparent. I am undecided about Culkin's performance. Michael seems shallow to me, but that is actually appropriate to the role, as Michael Alig seems void of humanity in the interviews I have watched. Culkin's Alig seems a mere poseur to Green's St. James, who lives and breathes fabulousness. But again, that aspect could also be essential to Michael's character who seemed to be a club kid just because it would lead to attention. Mostly, though, I was wishing that Kieran was on the screen instead. Chloë Sevigny is underused in her role of Michael's girlfriend and I could have done with seeing more interaction between Michael and Angel. And some boy-on-boy intimacy. The directors were willing to show such outrageous costumes, copious amounts of drug use, and yet no affection between men despite the heavy homoerotic overtones between the actors. The lack of homosexual interaction wouldn't bother me as much if Michael and his girlfriend weren't shown in intimate moments as well.
This DVD is a pretty good disc. The print of the film is good, capturing the brightness of the costumes and parties and the changing color tone of the movie. The special features are decent. The commentary is pretty heavy with historical information about the accuracy of the events, but the directors share information about the production as well, usually concerning how disgusting the location smelled. I would have preferred more of the latter, but that is just my preference. The featurette was interesting, but the behind the scenes footage was rather dull for the most part. I appreciated having the interview with Michael Alig on the disc and an interview with James St. James would have been a welcome edition. 
All in all, the movie is interesting to watch and the disc is worth the purchase.