This movie is Steven Seagal's first and best.  "Above the Law" features Steven Seagal as Nico Toscani.  A tough, edgy police officer who once was a Special Ops agent in the Vietnam War.  The movie starts off as a montage of moments early in Nico's life.(which coincidentally mirrors Seagal's own youth).  From there, we move onto the Vietnam War, and then to present day Chicago of 1988.  Nico is partnered with Dolores Jackson (Pam Grier) as they become involved in a case involving a drug shipment.  When the bad guys are busted, the Chicago police and the Feds discover a cache of C-4 explosives.  Eventually, Nico and Dolores discover a CIA conspiracy where they are dealing in narcotics trafficking to fund their covert operations.  A Central American priest has paperwork to bust this operation, and it is up to Nico to uncover this dastardly plot.

  Steven Seagal gives his best performance of his dubious career as he plays a relentless cop trying to bust the villains.  Pam Grier is his supportive partner.  Sharon Stone is also in the film as Seagal's wife.  And the main villain is Henry Silva (Zagon), who has played numerous villains in the various films he has been in.

  The fight scenes are very believable, with things and people being broken constantly.  My favorite scenes are the aikido sparring session at the beginning, and when the 4 busters pull up in a convertible to confront Nico.  The scene ends with this huge guy coming up to Nico, and he fells him with a double blow to the chest and stomach.

DVD Extra's:

* The Special Features section is a bit thin.  The "Cast & Crew" has some bios on the various actors.  It was interesting that the opening scene of the movie followed Steven Seagal's youth, and that Seagal has black belts in Karate, Aikido, and Kendo.  "Behind the Scenes" just featured a couple of pages of text on the movie.  "Theatrical Trailers" had 8 trailers of Steven Seagal movies.

I have always enjoyed this movie.  Each time I watch it, I pick up some more dialogue from this movie.  There are actually some hilarious one-liners from some of the background actors if you pay attention.  I am not sure about the Blu-ray extra's, but the extra's on the DVD are not good.  However, the movie is a great for those of us who love action movies !