I adore this film. I purchased it in Blu-Ray and they weren't kidding on the package when they said "Perfect Picture and Purest Sound Available." This is what Blu Ray is all about,i had to turn down my surround sound due the sound quality being so crisp and clear and consistent throughout the whole movie. The blu ray really shows the detail on the characters and scenery beautifully. This is one of the better Blu Rays I've seen.

Now onto the material in the movie. Some say its not a movie for kids due to the scene in the beginning. I don't see a huge issue with it, most kids will understand the premise of the movie if you explain it. The characters were all fantastic and each one brought importance to the storyline which contained such a deep message(which has been conveyed in many reviews and does show on the special features). Ultimately the inventor creates the rag dolls, and with each doll he uses a piece of his soul to bring them to life. Ultimately to make up for creating the machines, that are souless beings(it goes much further into it, but I don't want to give away spoilers etc.) This film was very fast paced and not a moment was wasted, I was watching and didn't even check the time once. I do that often when watching movies as usually about halfway through i loose interest. I realize that being an animated movie, generally speaking the time is alot shorter than most films. But the length was perfect,very rarely can I appreciate everything in a 2-3 hour film. They worked so well with the 80 minutes they used, you see character developement, back story(cause and effect), as well as diving deeper into the origins of the rag dolls. I saw bits and pieces of other movies in this picture such as Terminator(the obvious reference to human builds machine, machine gets smart and kills human), as well as the design of the machines which very very closely resembles that of War of the Worlds(2005). That did not bother me, as those are two of my favorite movies anyway. In fact, I actually appreciated it. However, as i stated above there is a much deeper meaning to this film so keep your eyes and ears open :)

I had read some so-so reviews on here and I did take them into consideration before watching, but for me, my expectations were surpassed. Everyone has a different taste in film, but I highly recommend this. You could do alot worse for 80 minutes out of your life ;)

--Also don't forget to watch the 10 minute short that the film is based on. well worth it!