This is probably one of the most difficult and involved assessments of any product I've reviewed here at Amazon.com.  Rather than critiquing the movie from either the controversial politically-correct or conservative viewpoints, I will try to point out some things about why I feel the movie failed to succeed at the box office (or on DVD) vs. the actual Jeff Shaara novel, which I have read, and I feel is more successful.

We must remember from the outset that the Jeff Shaara novel was likewise written in the same vein as father Michael Shaara's "The Killer Angels".  Both essentially are narratives and character studies of the participants' thoughts, responses, and reactions to historical events that they were jointly a part of.

First, the movie does not faithfully follow the Jeff Shaara novel as did father Michael Shaara's novel, "The Killer Angels" in the movie, "Gettysburg."  While the vast majority of events presented in the movie are historically accurate, the movie emphasizes the Civil War service of Confederate General Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson, whereas Jeff Shaara's novel gives equal character treatment to Jackson, Confederate General Robert E. Lee, Union Lieutenant Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, and Union Major General Winfield Scott Hancock.  While the first three are dealt with rather well in the film, worst of all, the movie pushes Hancock into the background as a minor character vs. his being a significant contributor to the action as was in the novel.  Much of Hancock's involvement in the novel as a battlefield general is given in the 1862 Peninsula Campaign of General George McClellan (omitted from the movie) and at the Battle of Antietam (also omitted), of which other reviewers lamented its movie exclusion.

Second, there is the timing of appearance of Shaara's novel on the market and that of the mammoth, authoritative Jackson biography by Dr. James I. Robertson, Jr. of Virginia Tech, who is featured in the extra features on the DVD.  Shaara's novel appeared in 1996 and Robertson's Jackson biography appeared in 1997.  When the time came to make the movie version of the novel, the attendant excitement of the discovery of a tremendous amount of information about Jackson's life from Robertson's biography in the intervening years probably somewhat affected the decision to make the switch in emphasis for a movie version to make Jackson the main character.  In addition to the appearance of the Robertson biography, there had to have been the intervention of Executive Producer Ted Turner to make this so.  What puzzles me is why novelist Jeff Shaara allowed this to happen, even though he seems enthusiastic in the DVD extra features about it happening as it did.

Third, while admirers of Jackson were pleased to see Jackson the Confederate become the main character in the film, this obviously would not set well with a movie-going public, the vast majority of which would know little about Civil War history and also which the majority would prefer to see themes in films dealt with in a politically-correct manner.  While Civil War enthusiasts can carp all they want for the politically-correct element's failure to study their Civil War history before delivering judgment on a part of the war's history that is not to their liking, that realistically is something that would and will not happen.

Fourth, with the switch in character emphasis to Confederate Jackson as opposed to an evenly-distributed one amongst four characters, significant screenplay modifications needed to be made.  The first major change in the movie from the novel action deals with the First Battle of Bull Run, or Manassas, which is dealt with only in passing in the novel.  Jackson is the only character amongst the four major players in the novel involved at Bull Run.  Obviously, if Jackson has now become the major character in the film, a significant departure from the novel needed to be made to depict how Jackson got the name of "Stonewall" at Bull Run.  This departure from the novel is dealt with rather expertly and is historically accurate, even if not to the liking of the politically-correct.

Fifth and last, I don't know how or why two folk/rock singers (Mary Fahl and Bob Dylan) were allowed to contribute two songs to the beginning and ending of the movie that seemingly were opposed in approach and tone to each other.  Of the two, I feel that Bob Dylan's contribution was the least meaningful, and didn't contribute to the tone of the sad moment at the film's end that viewers had just experienced with the death of Jackson.  If anything, I would liked to have had a reprise of the Fahl song, which seemed better to fit the sobering ending.  Rather, I could have done without either singer's input, and relied on the contributions of film composers John Frizzell and Randy Edelman.  The input of Mary Fahl and Bob Dylan was likely Ted Turner's decision to attempt to generate a wider appeal for his film.

In summary, if the film had been more faithful to the novel, I think it would have had a better chance of succeeding as "Gettysburg" had.  Still, as other reviewers have stated, there simply was too much history to cover in what had already become an extremely long film (three hours and thirty-nine minutes), with no intermission.  "Gettysburg" covered only four days, whereas "Gods and Generals" covered two years.  "Gettysburg" was originally conceived and filmed as a TV mini-series, and with proper editing, succeeded as a long movie (four hours and fifteen minutes) with intermission.  "Gods and Generals" should not have been conceived as a movie and would have been more successful as a mini-series, following the novel more faithfully than it did.  But as it is, it was good in accurately depicting the historical events of the time period it covered.

The unfortunate lack of success that "Gods and Generals" suffered was a financial setback for Ted Turner, which resulted in his decision not to fund filming of the last part of the Shaara trilogy, "The Last Full Measure."  This is stated at Jeff Shaara's web site in response to the many inquiries made by those who want to see it made.