The problem with the second season of Spartacus is that since the Romans and the gladiators are no longer living under the same roof, every episode is effectively divided up into Roman scenes and gladiator scenes, and their is no question which are more interesting. The cruel, scheming, ambitious Romans remain endlessly watchable, whereas the gladiators when left to themselves do nothing but engage in endless debates about the meaning of freedom and the conduct of war. Which would you rather watch, a roomful of drunken, sex-craved Roman aristocrats torturing a captured ex-slave to death by flaying him alive, or a roomful of ex-gladiators debating the ethics of slave rebellion? The gladiators only come to life when in direct conflict with the Romans, as in the spectacular immolation of the arena in Capua (a superb sequence) or in titillating episodes like the one in which Spartacus and his men invade a brothel and impale all the naked customers on their swords as the victims' backsides wriggle (in close up), their private parts flop about (ditto), and the television screen is covered in gore.

The problem is not the actors, all of whom do their best. The problem is that the writers have a habit of confusing their series with the classic Kirk Douglas movie, wanting to infuse it with some of that old epic's high moral seriousness. It doesn't work. The sermonizing is hard to take in a series like this. Spartacus the TV series (NOT Spartacus the movie) is essentially high gloss soft porn dignified by some remarkably intelligent acting and superb production values. (I could watch Lucy Lawless smirk and glower for hours without becoming bored.) To be honest, I'm more interested in Spartacus the half-naked crazed killer than in Spartacus the philosopher. (There is also a serious plausibility problem. How did all these brutalized trained killers turn into Thomas Jeffersons?)

At it's best, Spartacus remains tremendous fun and I'm looking forward to the final season. I just hope their will be more sex and gore, and less moral posturing. Nevertheless, I have to conclude by stating that since all of the most interesting characters are dead now, I have no idea how the writers are going to pull it off.