I became enraptured with Disney's Hunchback of Notre Dame after  I saw it long ago back in 1996. My first impression was...WOW! Disney deviated from the normal 'warm and fuzzy' cartoon stories and daringly took on a project that was incredibly complicated and very adult in nature. The dark gothic edge to the tale should have been expected, as Victor Hugo's book was not exactly a Cinderella story. Parents should know this before taking their little kids to see it. I would say preteens would understand more than the usual toddler or grade school kids.
I consider this movie to be Disney's greatest animated film to date, even up to this year, 2004. Why? For several reasons.
First, it's hard to turn a book like Victor Hugo's Hunchback into a cartoon in which you can still find humor and drama, strong, multi-dimensional characters, and a very powerful plot and message that are not overshadowed by the characters, or vice versa. Literature fans of the book cringed when they saw the Disney-fied version, but my argument is: Disney also kept many of the strong, major themes of the book alive. People forget that a book and a film are two different forms of media, therefore, should be interpreted as such. A movie does not have to be faithful to the book, but can be, rather, an adaptation of words turned into stunning visuals, as Hunchback was. 
Secondly, all the characters in the movie are believable and multi-dimensional  even the slapstick comedian gargoyles, who to me, represented a hidden part of Quasimodo's personality that he was unable to express...his fun-loving side.  Esmerelda's great sensual beauty was a serious change to the usual more innocent heroines...as well as her toughness, independence, and warmth. People aren't used to those kind of heroines, especially a dark gypsy who is an exotic dancer. Demi Moore's sultry, warm voice added more reality to Esmerelda's animation. Phoebus, the Captain of the Guard, is dry-humored, witty, and calmly confident, voiced by the similiar personality of Kevin Kline.
But the most incredible part of the movie  was the introduction  of Disney's most complicated, tormented villain to date,  Judge Claude Frollo, wonderfully voiced by Tony Jay's rich, resonant powerful voice.  Not merely someone out for power or wealth ( he has those already), he is incredibly sinister, manipulative, and cruel. This got a little tricky trying to explain to my little cousin 'why Frollo was destroying the city" and what his Hellfire song was all aboutl. Indeed this was a common complaint among some parents...that the storyline was too complex and dark for their kids. Well, they also should know that Hunchback was not exactly a Cinderella-story fairy tale either, and could have kept their kids at home. Frollo was multi-layered, incredibly cruel, and yet, human enough to fall in love with a beautiful woman.
Highlights include SPECTACULAR imagery and 3-D animation, breathtakingly beautiful views of Paris, Notre Dame, crowd scenes, and Quasimodo's graceful manuevering of the Cathedral he loves so much, but longs to leave to see the outside world.
I think the music was very dramatic, not much there for kids. The most compelling and powerful song sequence is the HEAVEN'S LIGHT/HELLFIRE sequence in which Quasimodo sings of his adoration for Esmerelda, and conversely, Frollo sings of his tormented lust for the gypsy he hates, but wants to possess and also love. No other villain has had such a multi-faceted personality  and complex role. Frollo remains my favorite character because some of his expressions and words were absolutely priceless. And his cruelty went far beyond that of most other villains. The only other villain who even comes close to him is the  Evil Queen from Snow White. 
The ending is breathtakingly dramatic, fiery, very intense, and again, may be too strong for very young children. But Quasimodo's touching experience with the little girl at the end, and his facial expression, would make anyone with a heart weep tears. 
Other characters include the hilarious trio of wisecracking Gargoyles, the Gypsy king Clopin, and Esmerelda's adorable pet goat, adding comic relief and colorful sequences to the story, esp the Festival of Fools gala. Disney outdid themselves with that computer animation, sweeping scenes of the Cathedral, and incredibly pyrotechnic animation work.
Great character development, a beautifully animated film, strong plot, and a very powerful message: WHAT MAKES A MONSTER, AND WHAT MAKES A MAN? Yes, Disney took a chance with a much deeper, complex story, dark and scary scenes, but also non-stop action, and the heartfelt story of a lonely bellringer who finds happiness and acceptance at last.
You will love this. Again I caution very young children from viewing it, as there are some darker and complex themes that are beyond their understanding. But, you will want to see this film. And rate it as one of the greatest animated Disney films of all time, as I have done.