IN A NUTSHELL: A FILM THAT CAN BE SEEN AND ENJOYED OVER AND OVER AGAIN!

Based on a stage play written by Donald Bevan and Edmund Trzcinski, this sensational film adaptation, written by Billy Wilder and Edwin Blum, takes place almost entirely within a single P.O.W. barrack populated by American sergeants. Yet, despite the seeming lack of variety, there seems to be plenty of action and never a dull moment.

The acting, led by William Holden, Robert Strauss and Otto Preminger, is mesmerizing and is aided by a very tight script and fast-paced action. Situational comedy is interjected into the action to illustrate how the various prisoners cope with the stress of P.O.W. life. Robert Strauss and Harvey Lembeck are a pair of wisecracking comic relievers named "Animal" and "Harry Shapiro." So effective were the pair at providing meaningful and scene-stealing comic relief that Strauss was nominated for a much-deserved "Academy Award" for "Best Supporting Actor." The importance of this seemingly-trite comic relief was twofold; to provide contrast from the pervasive bleakness of P.O.W. life and death, and as a means of emphasizing the mindsets and trials that the prisoners were motivated by and forced to endure.

THE ANIMAL & SHAPIRO IN ACTION - a few examples [warning plot spoilers below]

When there are "new dames in the Russian compound," the Animal & Shapiro devise a scheme utilizing a can of paint and a brush to get themselves up close and personal with the female Russian prisoners. In the end, they paint a German interloper's eyeglasses and hightail it back to their barracks, leaving the paint, brush, and screaming-and-freshly-painted, nearsighted German behind.

Sefton [Holden], on the other hand, can walk right into the Russian female compound "like some kraut Field-Marshall" according to Duke [Neville Brand]. So we see some entertaining comedy and we see the contrast in outcomes that led the other P.O.W.s to believe that Sefton was the traitor. After all, throughout the film Sefton got away with things that no one else could, making it logical that he was the informant.

WHAT "STALAG 17" IS ALL ABOUT:

"Stalag 17" focuses on how men behave under real stress. In this case, the story begins as Cookie (Gil Stratton) narrates the theme of the next two hours -- the story about the informant/traitor among them who aided their German jailers. Like all good stories, this one opens as closely as possible to the end. We, the audience, arrive in time to see two of the inmates attempt to escape and subsequently to get slaughtered by a waiting machine-gun nest after Sefton [William Holden] wagered that neither escapee [Manfredi or Johnson] would make it out of the compound alive.

Over the next two hours we are given a series of clues: some real, some red herrings, and some impossible to decipher until the end. Through it all, we get to enjoy a tight story, terrific dialogue, excellent performances all-around, and a torrid pace that makes this 2-hour film seem like a very short movie.

 -----> THE CAST MEMBERS &lt;-----

William Holden  - Sefton
Don Taylor  - Lieutenant Dunbar
Otto Preminger  - Von Scherbach
Robert Strauss  - "Animal" Stosh
Harvey Lembeck  - Harry Shapiro
Peter Graves  - Price
Sig Rumann  - Schulz
Neville Brand  - Duke
Richard Erdman  - Hoffy
Michael Moore  - Manfredi
Peter Baldwin  - Johnson
Robinson Stone  - Joey
Robert Shawley  - Blondie
William Pierson  - Marko
Gil Stratton  - Cookie/Narrator
Jay Lawrence  - Bagradian
Erwin Kalser  - Geneva Man

 -----> PRODUCTION CREW &lt;-----

Billy Wilder  - Director / Producer / Screenwriter
Donald Bevan  - Play Author
Edwin Blum  - Screenwriter
Edmund Trzcinski  - Play Author
Ernest Laszlo  - Cinematographer
Franz Waxman  - Composer (Music Score)
Doane Harrison  - Editor
George Tomasini  - Editor
Franz Bachelin  - Art Director
Hal Pereira  - Art Director
Sam Comer  - Set Designer
Ray Mayer  - Set Designer
Ray Moyer  - Set Designer
Gene Garvin  - Sound/Sound Designer
Harold Lewis  - Sound/Sound Designer
Wally Westmore  - Makeup
Gordon Jennings  - Special Effects

 -----> THE MAJOR AWARDS &lt;-----

Best Actor (win) William Holden  1953 Academy
Best Director (nom) Billy Wilder  1953 Academy
Best Supporting Actor (nom) Robert Strauss  1953 Academy
Best Director (nom) Billy Wilder  1953 Directors Guild of America
Best Picture (nom)  1953 National Board of Review

ABOUT THE DVD: EXCELLENT TRANSFER OF AUDIO AND VIDEO BUT NO FEATURES

BOTTOM LINE:

Arguably as good a film about World War II as ever there was creates a true anti-hero in William Holden as the film's star.

ALSO RECOMMENDED:

THE GREAT ESCAPE, JOHN STURGES, 1963