When the announcement came that a film was going to be made about the X-Men, after Marvel sold the rights, I wasn't too happy with the news. Previous films based on comic books did not do that well. Judge Dread and Spawn are just two examples. I didn't expect much from the film but when I heard that Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen where going to play two of the main characters I was lifted and I thought the film might not be so bad after all.

When I went to see this at the cinema I was surprised with the film in whole and with individual items. In whole the plot of the film is good and the way the film unfolds as to who Magneto (Ian McKellen) really wants is done in such a way as to mislead you to who he really wants until the X-Men finally find out what his intentions are. Senator Kelly (Bruce Davison) is played very well and the fear that he, and many others, feel about mutants. The argument that takes place near the beginning of the film with Dr Jean Grey (Famke Janssen) is very well directed and the argument is a valid one as well, making good points and the points being made all making sense.
In the individual parts of the film the characters stay true to there characters in the comic books apart from the fact that the X-Men now wear uniforms instead of "yellow spandex!" The actors are well chosen and seeing as though I haven't seen many of the actors in any other films they really did bring the characters themselves come to life. Rebecca Romijn- Stamos who played Mystique had to spend 10 hours in make-up just to look the part! Everything that takes place in the film that is related to the X-Men stay true to the comic. Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart), better know as Professor X has a school set up for "gifted" people where other mutants teach them how to control their powers and also get a education while being in a safe environment. Professor X himself being a mutant who broke his back and is now confined to a wheelchair. Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) is one of the most favourite characters out of the X-Men (not forgetting Cyclops (James Marsden) and his character features a lot in the film. His past is unknown and the reason why he has a super strong metal, known as adamantium, which gives him the ability to extend and retract steel claws from between his knuckles is implanted though out his body is a mystery and leaves the story open for a sequel.....
All the actors who played all the main characters in the film also deserve praise as they played the characters well and they did truly represent the characters from the comic book. 
The DVD of the X-men includes a number of "extras" as well as the original and an extended version. Don't expect much from the extended version of the X-Men as it is not a complete individual film itself. It takes the original film and when extra pieces of the film, that were removed or deleted from the film for a number of reasons, are just inserted into the film. This means that you get a rough version where you sometimes have to watch parts of the film that doesn't really fit in well or have to watch the same part of the film twice but with different scripts. I suggest you watch the original version first before you watch the extended version so you don't get confused. The DVD also includes interviews with the Bryan Singer who directed the film, the screen test for Wolverine (why!?!), all the adverts from the USA and the UK that appeared on the TV advertising the film at the cinema, the advert for the soundtrack, the animation test for two parts of the film, a gallery section (and for those who have a Playstation 2 you will need a hand control to view these) and a little section called "Mutant Watch"
Mutant Watch is really good. It is about 20 minutes long and it shows an separate version of the court case where Senator Kelly argues his case about mutants and has video evidence which are parts of the film. This section is acted out specifically for DVD and it is a clever way to advertise the X-Men film while also explaining some parts of the film to those who don't know, don't understand or are unfamiliar with the X-Men world. 
Anyway this film is good for die hard fans or new comers and it is a DVD I strongly suggest you buy or at least rent.