Well, what should I say? I first heard of this movie when I was in China in the 80s. I first saw the movie during Christmas season in 91, my first Chirstmas in the States. I watched it alone. After 4 hours of pure torture and angst (that's my highest compliment to any movies who genuinely touch the audiences), I cannot help sobbing and crying for a good 15 minutes. Only a handful movies moved me to tears (ages of innocence, breaking the waves, dancer in the dark, to name a few). Rarely have there been a movie that I can identify with half a dozen characters and care about their lives. I had to spend another 4 hours watching the movie again the following day.
I have at least watched this movie for 8 times since then. I can never forget Noodles and Max, for christ's sake, even after 10 years I first saw the movie. Thermatically, this is the strongest movie that I have ever watched, and it surpassed the best that Tarkovsky, Bergman, Kurosawa, Scorsese, Visconti have ever offered. It's that good. This is the movie, along with probably 'Casablanca', 'decalogue', 'cinema paradiso', 'seven samurai', 'the leopard', 'the passion of joan arc', 'la strada', and 'andrei rublev', that I would like to forever cherish in my spectacular movie collections (I have about 1000 DVDs and some LDs and VHSs).
Also, did I mention the spectacular score Morricone composed for this movie? Morricone was robbed for an Oscar for this movie and 'cinema paradiso', and to a lesser extent, 'once upon a time in the west' and 'the mission'. Heck, these scores are better than anything that the great John Williams has ever composed, maybe with the exception of the main theme from "ET" and "Schindler's List".
Now I do have a LD collection for this movie. I just cannot understand why Paramount has not released a DVD version of this masterpiece so far. BTW, this movie is much better appreciated in the widescreen format, which, the Brazilian DVD does not offer.
Finally, the sad truth: This movie was supposed to be the highest tribute that Leone paid to the US, and yet it was largely ignored by the latter. Well, the theme in the movie seemed to have repeated itself in Sergio's life. What an irony!
I heard recently that Warner Brothers is going to release the movie on DVD in 03.