In a time when a simple internet search can uncover smut both voluminous and raunchy, it can be a bit difficult to really appreciate the significant cultural impact of Deep Throat at the time of its release.  The production of porn movies was underground and mostly mob controlled, were shown in disgusting theaters and had as their audience the true dregs of society.  Deep Throat changed all that, taking porn to the mainstream from which it has never returned.

Inside Deep Throat is the tale of the movie, its making, the mammoth influence it had coming just at the right time when sexuality was loosening up in American society, the significant push-back by way of criminal prosecutions, and the unfortunately sometimes too sad trajectory of those involved.  In all, it is a captivating and titillating viewing.

The movie of course addresses Linda Lovelace's later claims that she had been an unwilling participant and that watching Deep Throat was the same as watching her being raped.  Such claims have always been shaky when held up to scrutiny (see my review of Lovelace's book ORDEAL for more on that) and Inside Deep Throat does not provide any extra illumination on the issue.  But it does frame the controversy well enough.  Hers was not the only controversy surrounding Deep Throat, and Inside Deep Throat places her story within the context of those of everyone else.

A number of public figures provide certain commentary at various points.  Some is worthwhile, some thought provoking, some funny.  Not surprisingly, it is the feminist of the bunch, Erica Jong, who makes the buffoon of herself, particularly with this (paraphrased) comment:  `Men want to believe that a woman's clitoris is in her throat.  That way, she will receive as much pleasure by performing the act as he will having it done to him.  Well guess what?  It's not true.'

Really?  I can state that, despite innumerable conversations in my life of a deeply salacious nature, I have never heard any man express anything even vaguely approaching such an idea.  Like a typical feminist, arrogant almost beyond description, Jong projects her own beliefs about what men think or want and then comments on that projection.  Pathetic, but again, typical.

Anyway, back to the movie.  In all, Inside Deep Throat is an entertaining look at at an entertaining industry.  For a slice of the underside of Americana, give it a go.