Most of the people who wander across this series do not know that this anime is based off of a very lengthy series of novels (over 10) that were written in the 80's.  Those novels were based off of a japanese role-playing game called "Sword World RPG."  Whether Record of Lodoss War was an actual campaign that people played or if RoLW is just based off of the game, I do not know.  Either way, this story is not a rip off of Star Wars or LotR, although it may have similarities (I don't see similarities, and I have been both a LotR fan and a Star Wars fan since I was 6 years old).

A lot of people will not like this anime, period.  They'll complain about the voice acting, and they'll complain about the quality of the graphics.  The truth is that the animation is actually very good, especially since this series came out somewhere around the late 80's to early 90's.  The detail in the animation is superb, and for its time, the coloring was as well.  With people used to the graphical quality of animes today, where CGing technology is far superior to that of the animes made more than 10 years ago, people who are relatively new to anime will probably not have a taste for this series.

Now, if you've been watching anime since the early 90's or before (and you have somehow not seen this), I highly recommend it.  The plot may be a little rushed since they tried to cram so many novels into only 6.5 hours of animation, but they still did a darn good job.  There is a reason why this anime is famous.  When it came out in Japan around 15 years ago, the novels that RoLW is based off of were incredibly popular.  This series was a bit rushed due to the constraints that the animation team was working on, but nevertheless, it sold like crazy.  When it came to the US, the knowledge of the real story was lost.  Still, it was one of the first fantasy animes around, and had not only above average voice acting for its time, but also incredible animation, great music, and a storyline that was original and refreshing.

I'd say that the one weakness of this anime is that it was crammed down into 13 episodes.  If the producers had allowed more time so it could cover more of the character development and side quests, I think this anime could have been even more legendary than it already is.