Well, Con Air is an action film. There's no escaping that. And when the name Jerry Bruckheimer pops up in the opening credits, we know it's going to be a big action film in every sense of the word. 
Cameron Poe (Nicolas Cage) is a retired US Ranger who, the day of his return, gets involved in a drunken brawl protecting his wife from some local thugs, accidentaly killing one of them during the scuffle. It's not long before he's convicted and sent to prison for his crime.
Determined not to screw up again, Poe spends the next five years or so growing his hair and doing push-ups, from what we see in the opening shots. Eventually he gets paroled and he and his friend, Baby-O are brought on board The Jailbird - a lumbering troop transport designed to fly prisoners around the country. 
But they are not alone on this aircraft. Onboard are an assortment of master criminals and general nutters from all over the country. There's super-clever Cyrus the Virus (a shaven-headed John Malkovich), black militant Diamond Dog (big bloke Ving Rhames), serial rapist Johnny 23 (greasy Danny Trejo) and creepy mass murderer Garland Green (Steve Buscemi).
Needless to say, it's not long before the cons break out and take control of the aircraft. With Baby-O dying from lack of insulin, Poe is forced to remain on the aircraft and try somehow to get things under control. On the ground, Federal Marshall Vince Larkin (John Cusack) does his best to calm things down and work out just how the hell to stop the whole thing turning into a bloodbath. 
The plot isn't anything spectacular, but at least it's better than the likes of Armageddon. The first two-thirds of the film are relatively slow, with Poe skulking around the aircraft and generally doing his best to help the good guys without getting himself killed.
It's only in the last half-hour that the film succumbs to the inevitable Bruckheimer influence and disintegrates into an orgy of guns, explosions and even a bit of fist-fighting. Still, the action sequences are solidly staged and competently shot, particularly the battle in the deserted airfield.
The only real problem is that the film just doesn't know when to stop. After crashing an aircraft into the heart of Las Vegas, we're then treated to a fire truck chase through casino's, tunnels and even construction sites, resulting in a totally over-the-top death for the villain. The film reaches a high with the airplane crash, but it keeps going for more and by the time Cyrus is finally disposed of, it comes as an anti-climax.
The performances are good rather than great. Malkovich, since his performance in The Line Of Fire, has become the new Alan Rickman - a thinking mans bad guy. He's always ready with a sarcastic remark or witty postulation and he certainly looks nasty enough, but he doesn't really have the presence to carry off the role.
Cage turns in a solid performance as all round good-guy Cameron Poe, but after the likes of The Rock and Face/Off, this film certainly doesn't push his limits as he mumbles his way through his simple-Simon dialogue. Still, he seems to have put in some hard time at the gym for this movie, and wastes little time on showing off his new physique. 
The rest of the actors are there mostly as cannon fodder or comic relief. John Cusack does what he can in what is really quite a limited role, while Steve Buscemi turns in one of his patented 'Creepy little guy' performances, still managing to raise a few laughs with his occasionally insightful remarks. 
The soundtrack for Con Air is top class, perfectly summing up the mood of the film. There's a lot of heavy bass whenever one of the villains strolls up (usually in slow motion) and plenty of electric guitar during the fight sequences. The dialogue is rather intermediate, mostly witty and entertaining, but occasionally flat and dull. At least most of the puns are good. Upon seeing a sports car hanging in the air behind their plane, Poe remarks simply, "On any other day, that might seem strange."  
All in all, a good movie with some interesting and stylish touches. Above average, but not a classic.