The Lion King is one of the greatest animated films ever to grace the silver screen. In my opinion, it battles it out for the top spot with Beauty and the Beast and maybe Toy Story. Everything about it was beautifully created-- the animation (who could ever forget the famous stampede), the music (Circle of Life, Be Prepared, Can you feel the love tonight are among Disney's best), the story (taking Hamlet to the animal kingdom). There was a brilliant villain in Scar voiced magnificently by Jeremy Irons, a complicated hero in Simba and a strong supporting cast of comedic roles. And it ended perfectly-- there was no need for a sequel because the audience is left with the sense that Simba has finally overcome his guilt about his father and will do just fine in his rightful throne. It's such a masterpiece than a direct-to-video sequel could NEVER do the original any justice. Of course, that is always true with Disney.

In this case, Lion King II, while infinitely better than The Little Mermaid or Pocahontas sequels, still really serves no purpose other than to entertain young children. The original became such an enormous success and probably was the peak of the Disney Renaissance because it appealed to everyone. First and foremost, it was a beautifully made and somewhat dark Shakespearean tale that just happened to be a cartoon. I mean, no one ever forgets Mufasa's death scene whether they were 6 or 30 when they first saw it. The sequel, while it has some moments of fun, cannot hold a candle when compared to the grand nature of the original. Yet it takes on yet another serious Shakespeare tale (R&J that is), which they should not have done unless they were going to put in more effort and make it a theatrical release. The main characters, Kovu and Kiara, are nowhere near as developed or engaging as the young Simba and Nala. The villain has nowhere near the complexity and motives of the brilliant Scar. Even the adult Simba in this sequel is a shadow of his original self and as a father figure, is no Mufasa either.

In my opinion, a better sequel might have dealt more with Simba taking on his father's position. After all, in the original, it was not a fairy-tale romance that captured people's interests but the more serious father-son dynamic between Simba and Mufasa. And in this sequel, the most interesting moments involve Simba trying to live up to his idolized father and still traumatized by his uncle's deception.

The music is severely lacking as well. There is no Circle of Life or Be Prepared or even Hakuna Matata. The original had a sensational Hans Zimmer score that was sorely missed here and replaced by fairly pedestrian tunes. My problem with this movie is that it shouldn't have been made, which can be said of most Disney sequels except maybe Aladdin and the King of Thieves that was surprising comedic gem.

Overall, not a terrible direct-to-video sequel but one that really didn't need to be made.