I suppose I should avoid generalizations, especially after only seeing two Lawrence Kasdan films (this and "Grand Canyon"), but the patterns are too pervasive, and too integral to the structure of each of his films, for me to ignore. To wit: in a Lawrence Kasdan film, no one is unhappy who does not want to be; no problems are such that they cannot be overcome with a little willpower, a moment of recognition, or (most often) a relationship with the right person; the right person, inevitably, is someone who shares your likes and/or dislikes (such as long hot showers and the NBA Celtics teams of the 1980s), and given such a foundation any fundamental differences are inconsequential.
 In this framework, in "Mumford" we are presented with a psychologist of the same name, practicing in a town of the same name, albeit in a somewhat unconventional fashion: he is prone to revealing his patients' confessions to other patients, to romantic morning walks with one particular patient, etc. He is, in short, not actually a psychologist at all, and it is this deception that provides the closest thing to real conflict that this film has to offer. Certainly, Dr. "Mumford"'s patients don't provide any: one (very wealthy) man's loneliness is instantly cured by an introduction to Mumford's downstairs neighbor; a teenaged girl suffering from a marginal case of anorexia is healed by a romance with a classmate; said classmate's mother, suffering from a pathological acquisition syndrome, frees herself from an oppressive relationship with an acquisitive investment banker to start up a presumably healthier one with the local hardware salesman, who is in turn saved from the predations of his own sexual fantasies; and, most centrally, a chronically exhausted blond waif is saved by a relationship with Mumford himself.
  The network of relationships, and the mild, largely superficial psychological problems they (without exception) serve to overcome, is completely contrived, served up as it is with a minimum of difficulty, of disagreement, of human conflict. This is a movie to watch and feel good about. Mumford's deception, a violation of a most fundamental sort for his patients, is here treated lightly and forgiven instantly. Where there is no pain, there is no joy, and no struggle, no release, and just so this movie, for all its feel-goodism, rolls off too easily. Put in a minimum of effort, and be rewarded accordingly with a modicum of entertainment.