This flick is a very good effort at telling the story of the 300 Spartans who died defending the pass at Thermopylae (as it has come down to us) against the Persians.

I am always a bit amused at reviewers that 'measure' and slam ancient peoples, events and times using their modern 'yardsticks'! Most Greeks around that period both admired and feared the Spartans. Were the Spartans ruthless? Sure! But the Spartans were only MORE ruthless and militarily astute than other Greeks at the time and shouldn't be singled out for any particular 'knocking'. It was a different world; with different morals and values. It was a dog-eat-dog world of almost constant warfare between all the various Greek city-states. The Spartans simply evolved into the recognized top-dog. Since only free Spartans could serve in the army and the army is estimated to never have been more than 8-10,000 at the height of Sparta's power, diplomacy was always exhausted before going to war. When war was decided upon, up to half the army had to remain at home, to put down potential revolts by their slaves, the Helots, who had a habit of rebelling when the army was away. Sparta simply couldn't afford to lose many men in battle, and so, was actually reluctant to go to war. But when they did go to war... the other fella had better watch out!! In the movie King Leonidis receives word that the Spartan Council decided to fortify the Isthmus of Corinth instead of following him to Northern Greece (thus dooming the 300 Spartans). The decision is never explained in the movie, and the viewer is left with the impression that the council 'screwed' Leonidis and his troops. In reality, it was a very pregmatic move since the Isthmus is just a day or two forced march from home, allowing the army a quick response if the slaves revolted. It was Leonitis who ignored the council and took it upon himself to march north with his personal body guard. It is fortunate for 'western civilization' as we know it today that the Spartans (and around 7000 other Greeks) held Thermopylae and delayed Darius and the Persians long enough for the Greek cities to rally and eventually defeat them. It is a tribute to their bravery and sense of duty that the 300 Spartans (and 700 Thespians) died defending the pass to delay the Persians until the other Greeks were able to retreat from the trap.

There is a Greek saying attributed to Spartan women who saw their husbands and sons off to war. Women gave the shield to their men and told them... "With this, or on it!" Since the shield was the heaviest part of any soldier's armour, if things went badly during a battle and they had to exit the field in a hurry, the shield was the first thing thrown away in flight. The saying meant for the men to come home with victory ('with this shield') or dead ('on it') as shields were commonly used as battlefield 'stretchers'. This 'hardcore' attitude was very real, since a woman's stature in Spartan society, and especially among other Spartan women, was linked directly to her husband's/son's performance and bravery in battle.

To a Spartan, prowess in battle was everything... understandable in a martial society. All energies were directed toward supporting and securing the state, so agriculture and the arts were considered 'unmanly' occupations and had no real place in their culture. Note in the movie the statement about the Spartan mother that killed her own son when she saw he had a wound in his back.