This film is magical.  The writing and directing capture the complexities and dynamics of Malcolm's progress.  It is almost as if Spike Lee lets the camera run on a condensed version of Malcolm's life.  We see and understand his conversion from pimp to racist to social critique and leader.  More imporantly, we see how his own life is a metaphor for his teaching: that once the oppressed understand what is holding them down, they are free to flourish.

Perhaps even more amazing than the writing (which closely alligns with Malcolm's autobiograhy) and the directing is Denzel Washington's performance.  It may be the best acting in the history of American film.  Lee often spliced into the film historical footage of X, yet it requires close discernment of physical characteristics to realize we still aren't watching Denzel.

While lamenting on the systematic yet subtle exploitation of blacks, Malcolm often pointed to the black mindset as the culprit for the rampant poverty, crime, and ignorance in the black community.

Overt racism and institutionalized drawbacks were hard enough for black people to overcome.  But worse yet, Malcolm noted, was the psychological prison that enslaved blacks in a quagmire of abasement, escapism, and an inclination of deference.  Malcolm proclaimed that to release the human potential of the black man, he must first accept who he is, and more importantly be proud of his color.

This is the importance of Malcolm X: from his life (and legend)propagated the concept of black pride.  Indeed, Malcolm preached that in order for black people to gain respect, they must first develop respect for themselves.  In fact, self-respect was the only thing important. From the era of slavery onward, whites had imbued blacks with an inferiority complex to keep them docile and subserveant. It was time for Blacks to learn about their own heritage without White spin, time for Blacks to recognize their own capabilities for greatness, time for Blacks to rise from the depths of the  mudsill class.  And, as Malcolm warned, if the exploiters got in the way, the "keg of blackpowder is going to explode and blow the house up."

What is even more admirable is his openness to change.  By the end of his life, Malcolm overcame his racism and strived for the realization of human dignity for all people. Like King, when Malcolm demanded equality for all, the FBI's communist sensors went off and X was summarily assassinated.