This DVD says that you'll "dance like a diva, get fast and funky, and do a little island swing," but really it is all hip-hop dance with a little of something else mixed in.  The sections are:

Warm Up-A quick little dance routine with a lot of plies, and some stretching for the legs and neck.

Island Jam 1-This is the most fun of all the routines, I think, but it is hip-hop with quite a bit of island dance mixed in.  The dances are easy, but the arms are big which makes it cardio.
Island Jam 2-I didn't find this as fun as the first one or as island like.  The moves are really all hip-hop here, but they are still good cardio builders, although there is one step Marie (the instructor) breaks down a move really slowly which causes my heart rate to plummet, but I just fast forward.

Fast and Funky 1-This section I expected to get hip-hop dance, and that is what I got.  Unfortunately, Marie breaks down ALL the moves in this routine to teach them slowly, so I miss half of the routine fast forwarding, but it is a fun section, still.
Fast and Funky 2-This routine is probably the sassiest of them all.  All of the moves have an attitude to them, and it is my least favorite.  Not because of the sass, but just because I didn't really like the moves.

Diva Dance 1-This dance routine is mostly Latin, and the first few moves are Cha-Cha and Samba, but soon after that Marie tosses Latin away and just goes back to hip-hop moves.  I still liked this section.
Diva Dance 2-This one seemed a bit Broadway with (surprise, surprise!) hip-hop mixed in.  This was a really fun combo, though.

Cool Down-The cool-down stays with some Broadway slower moves, and Marie does a few stretch combos, but she should have done much more.  She stretches your neck, back, and shoulders and that's it.  It does not stretch your legs at all.

This is a great DVD, and I love hip-hop dance I just wish some of the sections would have been more what they say.  To the men, though, you might want to skip this DVD because there are no male backups, although the moves aren't too feminine.  A great DVD with a bad cool down.