The movie opens with an illustrated prologue such as found in the extended version of Dune. The narration tells the story of an army of Greek soldiers two thousand years ago that found themselves trapped one thousand miles from safety in the middle of the Persian Empire. This sets up the film as a story about soldiers running the gauntlet in a desperate effort to get back home to safety with everyone around them an enemy. The setting is a dark near-future; New York City where the streets controlled by rival street gangs. The Warriors is one such street gang from Coney Island that journey along with hundreds of other gangs for a large meeting in the Bronx. The Warriors, unarmed and out-numbered, are framed for a murder of major gang figure, and are forced to run back to Coney Island with every gang and cop in the city looking for them.

The transfer is gorgeous. On a standard definition TV screen, the film looks very modern, and the colors are saturated nicely. The audio is just as good. Having lived near an elevated rail line, the sounds of the subway system are authentic. The 70s rock music that powers the film does more than just sound good, it helps set the pace of the story. This is the definitive version of the cult classic that director Walter Hill intended. The film comes with several featurettes as well as an introduction by Walter Hill himself. There is English 5.1 and 2.0 audio tracks as well as a French audio track.

There is no commentary track. I wish there were; however, Walter Hill explains in his introduction that he feels that a film should speak for themselves without special explanations or apologies. I personally love commentary tracks when done by the director or core actors, but in The Warriors, the lack of a commentary track forces the viewer to only see the movie as it is. The viewer isn't allowed to see the world outside the film. For a film as dramatic as The Warriors this works very well. What Walter Hill adds to this version of the film are comic-book art style segways that bring the film back in line with the comic book origins he intended.