No doubt, one of the best movies ever made. Some compared it to Saving Private Ryan, but that is like comparing heaven and earth. Kang has much more talent than that.

I found the ending of the movie to be highly artistic. If one approaches the movie from a realistic standpoint, it is easy to see that

1) It is unrealistic that the younger brother would be able to find his elder brother in the midst of a battleground.

2) It is unrealistic that the older brother does not recognize his younger brother and proceeded to try to kill him. It was only towards the end that his elder brother snapped out of it, and realized that he has been attacking his younger brother.

I thought these scenes were bad because I was approaching it from a war movie standpoint, and it was only later that I realized that this was Director's Kang's genius at drawing artistic parallelism and the stark unrealistic scenes provoked me, the viewer to think about why they were there.

Thus these are my interpretation:

I think Director Kang was drawing parallelism between the relationship of the brothers with that between North and South Korea all this time. When the older brother fails to recognize his younger brother at the end of the movie (a highly unrealistic situation) and wanting to kill him, it is drawing a parallelism that when the North and South attack each other, both sides are forgetting that they are brothers. To an outsider, one ask why Koreas have become pawns of this larger ideological game. Its the same question that one ask when one sees the scene where Jin-Tae (the older brother) trying to kill his younger brother at the final battle scene. The viewer at that point just wishes Jin-Tae would snap out of his craze and realize that its his younger brother that he is trying to kill, the person he's been trying to protect all this time. In that scene, Jin-Tae symbolizes  North Korea and his younger brother South Korea. And that is the message that Kang was sending. This interpretation has been aluded to several times throughout the entire movie. For example, during the earlier part, there was a scene when a soldier said, "This war isn't like the war against Japan.". Another scene in the middle of the movie was a fight between 2 North Korean POW soldiers. There they were instructed to fight each other for the entertainment of the rest of their captors(the south korean troops). Whoever loses will not get food for 2 days. There, I see the parallelism where the 2 North Korean POWs represented North and South Korea. Both are "instructed" to fight for the entertainment of the "higher powers".