The series starts with the Boston Tea Party (from which the Tea Party gets it's name) and ends with George Washington becoming the 1st President. It tries to be somewhat politically correct. The stories focus on an apprentice of Benjamin Franklyn's, a freed slave named Moses, a French boy, and to make it fair and balanced, a British girl sympathetic to the Crown. There's a trend now when telling the story of the American revolution to tell try to also tell the view from the British sympathizers. That's all fine and dandy, but the idea of a British sympathizer cavorting around with Revolutionaries and not having a problem with them - - even helping them sometimes -- is far fetched (impossible actually). She also didn't seem disappointed at the end of the series when the British lost, either. There's no mention of God or Church -- also far fetched for 18th century New Englanders. But by the same token, at least they DON'T try to re-invent the Founding Fathers as a bunch of atheists or Deists as some historians are trying to. That's where you fill in the gaps and tell the kids the Founding Fathers were actually Christians. President Obama will be disappointed to see Muslims played no part in the founding of our country, which is 100% correct...the series got that part right too. No mention of Muslims discovering America, as some history revisionists are claiming (because they didn't), or how Muslim culture played a part in the development of our country as Mr. Obama claims (it didn't). So even though you might find one or two things glossed over in the series, at least they didn't go nuts! This show came out in 2002, back when it was still OK to be patriotic after 9-11. The series probably wouldn't stand a chance now, unless it aired on FOX News. One episode features a Jewish Founding Father which upset a John Bircher type reviewing the series on here...but tough, get over it, there were Jewish people in America too. There's no violence or bloodshed in the series, which some people might find odd when covering the Revolutionary War, but you can also show it to your 5 year old and not worry. You couldn't do that with Mel Gibosn's "Patriot" (although it also is a remarkable film, show to the kids when they're old enough). As far as kids liking it, I haven't seen one yet that didn't. The great thing about cartoons is kids can watch the same ones over and over and over until they've memorized every single line and they don't get tired of it, so it's a great way to get them to memorize events in U.S. history. I'd say, watch Liberty's Kids WITH your kids, explain what's happening, and quiz them on what's going on. It's certainly educational, but like all educational material it needs a facilitator.