For years upon years, Woody Allen always manages to find a way to comedically entertain his audiences while not only Directing, but also starring in all of his films. After watching "The Curse of the Jade Scorpion", I will stay say that Woody Allen has not made a bad movie yet. 
"Curse of the Jade Scorpion" stars Helen Hunt (Always glamorous on screen), Dan Ackroyd, and the always humorous Woddy Allen. Woody Allen plays the part of a strung out detective, while Helen Hunt plays the part of a well-to-do woman aspiring to be the top detective. These two despise each other from day one, and eventually go on the being hypnotized. The two are assigned words in this hypnotic state, "Constantanopel" and "Natagascar". When directed at the two, these words can make the two love or hate each other. As the plot continues, we find that the hypnotizer is calling Woody Allen up on the phone, hypnotizing him, and making his rob rich households. If you would like to see how everything works out, go see the movie, I don't want to give anymore of the film away. 
Woody Allen, to tell you the truth, makes this movie what it is, not because of his usual one-liners, but this time because of his facial expressions. When he is under hypnosis, they are absolutely hysterical! Just looking at his face as it droops down into a dream state, watching him lurch around like a zombie. It's to die for! Woody Allen has that look to him that can always make me laugh, not matter how bad of a day i'm having. The patheticness of it all! 
Helen Hunt does an excellent job as her character. One of the demands upon this part was managing to come around to hating Woody Allen, and she does a great job at it. When Ms. Hunt wants to be mean, she has the potential to! This is a much different role from the rest of her films. It is a role that demanded self-centeredness, a switch from other roles she has done. 
The music adds to this film also, as it does in every Woody Allen film. Two songs are repeated, including "Sophisticated Lady", a modern day Jazz standard to say the least. The music adds to the truely comedic tone to this film. 
One cannot dissect this movie, all I have to say is that if you are a Woody Allen fan, just take my word for it and watch this film. It is a fun, cute and sexy movie that you shouldnt be afraid even to take your younger teens to see.