This SPECIAL EDITION of  ``Elvis - That's The Way It Is'' is really something! It blows you away! Great picture quality, real digital 5.1 Sound, lots of new camera angles, and all done with a lot of love. I was surprised how many scenes and live takes are in there witch where not in the original movie. It's certainly a must have DVD. No doubt about it. But it does not replace the original movie in my eyes. And that is the down side of it all. Yes, useless things are gone, like stupid interviews with fans and things like that, but also a couple of great things are edited out. Small things like Elvis shooting the Hollywood Camera with his Guitar. And very important stuff like the On Stage rehearsal of POLK SALAD ANNIE (where Elvis is wearing the red shirt), Elvis fooling around with the four microphones on stage, and the great live performances of:  I'VE LOST YOU, SWEET CAROLINE and BRIDGE OVER TROUBLE WATERS are gone too; witch is a crime! Also many version of performances are takes from different nights... So here's my question! Why not leaving everything in there that was great in the original movie AND put in the extras??? There's a lot of space on a DVD! And 95 Minutes is not very long at all when it comes to Elvis Presley. I think those cuts take away a lot! IT REALLY HURTS! - This really is a great DVD guys - don't get me wrong here - but it could actually hold the title: ``That's The Way It Is, part two'' or something, because it holds so much new material. - The first DVD release of the original movie had such a bad sound and picture quality that I could cry about the fact that this SPECIAL EDITION is missing so many of the original things. I am affright there will be no re-release of the original movie on DVD anymore, and that means the edited out stuff will never be available in up to date sound and picture quality for us. That's why I can't give this DVD the highest rating. - In my world Elvis was the best performer and singer in popular music ever. I never heard a singer again after him with that much soul and power. THAT'S WHY EVERY CUT ON FOOTAGE ABOUT THIS MAN IS A BIG, BIG, BIG CRIME!