This picture opened to mixed reviews.  The studio quickly withdrew it from distribution and drastically cut its length.  Thank heaven that this version is the original one, as the shortened one was a ham-fisted, muddled travesty  Its pace is slow and it features some scenes which some might find extreme to the point of being exploitive.  I weigh in on the side of those who find it to be the best of Leone's better-known films.  The slow sections were handled the way they were because so much of the point of this movie is the sad, sometimes regretful reflections by the central figure on his history of lost opportunities and wrong-turns in life.  One kind of moment, to be found in the show, is found in a scene you will not find in any U.S.-made gangster flick.  This particular scene features a small boy who has spent all of his meager pocket money on a lush piece of pastry.  He is taking it to a neighborhood girl who, it is known, will offer sexual favors in return for such offerings.  Waiting for her on the stairs leading up to her apartment, he unexpectedly finds himself torn between two temptations.  There is the anticipation of the gratification promised by the encounter with the girl but, right there before him, there is the cake, the chocolate icing, the sweet cream filling, the cherry on top.  What will happen now if the girl keeps him waiting too long?  This inventive plot device touchingly captures a vivid sense of life inside the mind of a young boy.  This is a long movie, with a large and brilliant cast, and too many amazing moments to recount here.  Expect the unusual, the contemplative, a deeply thoughtful quality recurring throughout this long and winding tale. It traces many decades in the lives of immigrant boys who decided that their only hope for advancement lay in crime.  Watch its strange and elusive conclusion very closely.  It can be a challenging picture.  I found it wonderfully worth the effort required.  Note the magnificent score by Ennio Morricone.