I have to say, when I see the covers of things like this I usually waver, that is to say, deny my own enjoyment. But wow.
It makes sense that the people who did Neon Genesis Evangelion did this, seeing as how they use the same link; stop lights, to symbolize the emotion of the show. The other reason I am not at all surprised is the quality of their product.
Tantamount to the group, the picture is excellent. Razor-sharp colors and text that should be becoming of all things people sell for this much money(Inuyasha on the other hand, well that's just cheep to sell three episodes for thirty dollars, and of bad picture quality).
Another sense of quality comes from the original over-seas show. I watched this in japanese with subtitles, it gives the show an orginal flavor, and even liked the sound of the music(not at all the lyrics). However they make this J-pop, it always sounds like JOURNEY, but with a year-2000 feel.
Then of course, there is the fantasy itself. Not so much fantasy as much as true epilogue of early High School. As far as ideas go, this one has been done over a thousand times, from Cyndyi Lauper's 'She's So Unusual' (which also kinda sounds like J-pop)to Breakfast Club, to Steven Van Sandt, and probably every movie starring someone like Hilary Duff. To actually make the idea sound crisp and new is very rare, especially seeing as how the last time anyone actually did that was with Breakfast Club and She's so Unusual(all 80's).
But anyways, they did it. What a magazine once preferred as one of the best anime's ever IS really excellent. Finding good anime is difficult, and this was like finding a golden egg in a basket of broken ones.
Most importantly though, they evolve the relationships well, taking time to notice the subtleties of a little girlfriend-boyfriend arrangement both expediently and thoroughly. And unlike some anime's(Ranma 1/2, Inuyasha) they get to the meat of the matter, and stop the apathy characteristic of most relationships in Japanese creation.
One may also notice how the idea of a high school student is almost obsessive in anime. Nearly all have some point about romantisizing high-school life. My theory is that the ones who create mangas, which are sometimes made into an anime, start right from High school, and usually don't have the time to mature in their new business world. The more complex one may come along once in a while, like Ghost In the Shell, but that isn't as often as the route found here.
Through all the same kind of stuff I've seen from over-seas, and out of it, I find myself enjoying this campy way of capturing "boy & girl". Even if this may not have much philosophical quality, or even much redeeming, I am still cringing, fainting, laughing, and modelizing this great triumph-in short, the first five episodes are perfect.