How does one classify The Night Stalker, the 1972 ABC Movie-of-the Week?  It's funny.  It's suspensful.  It's quirky.  It's scary.  It's witty.  It's serious.  It's high drama.  It's gothic.  The answer is the film defies classification.  You cannot put this particular movie in a box with a neat little bow around it because it won't fit.  And yet it was the highest rated made-for-TV film ever made up to that time.  The producer Dan Curtis regretted that the studio had not made it as a box office feature.

Carl Kolchak (Darren McGavin) is an investigative reporter whom nobody believes when it comes to uncovering various assortments of ghouls. His wardrobe is delightful:  Snap-brim straw hat, seersucker suit, white tennis shoes and broad yellow polyester tie. Confrontations abound between him and his boss Tony Vincenzo. You half expect a newsroom brawl at any moment with chairs, tables, lamps, and typewriters flying everywere.

The acting in both episodes is superior, and the dialogue is witty and well written.  Also, don't expect to see a truck-load of beefcake pretty boy actors in this one; they're just not there.  If you're expecting eye candy, forget about it. If you're expecting preening, camera-smooching poseurs, forget about it. Instead you get mature, seasoned character actors filling out their roles to near perfection:  Simon Oakland, Ralph Meeker, Larry Linville, Kent Smith, Wally Cox, Claude Akins, Barry Atwater, and Charles McGraw.

The atmosphere is forboding, sinister, and dark when the vampire is on the prowl. When the police try to subdue the creature, they are the ones who end up in the bed of a hospital or the slab of a morgue.  Only Kolchak knows the answer on how to stop him.  But, alas, no one believes him.  So he goes it alone.

The video and sound transfer on this DVD is exquisite. The closeups are especially good, as you can see every little wrinkle, mole, and blemish on each face.

I recommend this double feature highly.  I bought the MGM DVD.  Anchor Bay has a version out there, but I cannot attest to its quality. You'll probably be better off purchasing the MGM offering. Happy viewing!