Imagine a cross between "The Princess Bride," "Pan's Labyrinth," and "Spirited Away."  Now add even more stunning imagery that evokes the most beautiful Dal&iacute; paintings, and some excellent acting performances and direction, and you will come close to "The Fall."

I saw this movie a few days ago, and it has instantly become a favorite of mine.  I won't go into a synopsis of the story here, as you can find that elsewhere; instead, I'll let you know about some of the things that make this film truly special.  First, Catinca Untaru's performance is one of the best and most realistic from a child that I've ever seen on film.  Surely a lot of this must be attributed to the director.  When she appears on screen, it feels as if we're watching sincere interaction with a child rather than a child actor who has ever seen a script.

Visually, of course, this movie is one of the most amazing I've ever seen.  I would actually consider ordering prints of some of the stills from this film to hang on my wall--it's that beautiful.

While you can definitely follow the story if you aren't giving it your full attention, focusing on the details of the story is rewarded throughout with some very subtle storytelling that rings completely true to the perspective of a child's imagination while being told a story.

The relationship between Alexandria (the little girl) and Roy (the stuntman telling her the story) is complex and heartbreaking at times.  Their interactions allow them to reveal their characters very naturally, and you end up loving them with all their faults.

I don't understand why this movie has an R rating, though.  There is some violence, and some of it is a little graphic, perhaps.  There is no profanity (that I can recall) or nudity.  There are some "adult themes" I guess involving morphine, though I won't go into the specifics here.

I also don't understand some of the reviews I've read online.  It seems that most reviews I've seen have either loved or hated this movie.  Obviously, I get the ones that love it.  I just don't understand that ones that pan this movie--it almost seems like some of those who have reviewed it badly must not have been watching the movie or paying any attention to it at all (if that's the case, then why review it?).

Anyway, give this movie a try if you're looking for something helps you recall your own childhood imagination.

Edited later to add: I just watched the film again and was reminded that there is a bit of graphic violence and a curse word or two.  I suppose this is why it got the R rating.