Like so many Wolverine fans, I actually had high hopes for this movie.  What a let down.  To be perfectly fair I did have expectations for this movie.  These expectations were based on the comic book story line, the overall quality of the previous X-Men movies as well as pure character development.  That being said I feel like this movie was a sham.  I remember watching the previews every five minutes on tv and thinking, wow, this is going to be a great movie.  Look, wolverine is in the civil war and world war II, they are really going to go back and look at the whole history of this rich character and show us how he came to be the character we meet in the X-Men movie.

To my utter dismay, all these scenes about Wolverine's past history amounted to nothing but a montage for the credits to roll over in the beginning of the movie.  Yeah, we get this 7 minute scene when he's a kid but nothing about living through multiple wars or throughout a long period of time.  I realize there is too much story here for a two hour movie but this to me was the essence of the movie.

The characters were also a let down.  Again in fairness, there are several characters and you can't highlight them all but I feel like the trailers also billed this as a movie where we were going to possibly meet some fan favorite X-Men that were left out of the movies.  The obvious pick was Gambit.  I remember he was rumored to be in X-Men 2, that's how long I had waited.  But what I got looked and acted more like David Copperfield than Gambit.

The special effects were nothing to write home about, the story was all over the place and contrived.  Towards the end I felt like I could overhear the corporate talking heads writing this movie, more powers, more powers.  It just felt way over the top.  I always feel like the trick to making a good comic book movie is making a world where the supernatural feels real enough for me to suspend my belief.  If you can make me believe the action I'm seeing then they did a good job.  This just wasn't the case for this movie.

One star for Hugh Jackman as he is great as usual as Wolverine but I would recommend passing on this movie, re-watch X-Men 1 instead, you'll be glad you did.