I'm a guy. I love action. My DVD Collection is filled with mostly Matrix, Star Wars, Indiana Jones and Lord of the Rings type movies. I crave violence, guns, fast cars, hot chicks, and super expensive Special Effects!
So why am I reviewing this movie that has absolutely nothing to do with any of the above? Because I also looooove a good vacation!! And even though this movie is about two women who take a holiday in Italy, that's not what I was referring to. ACTUALLY WATCHING this little movie is literally like taking a mini-vacation!!
I've seen this movie in theatres and had it on VHS at one time (recorded from cable) and I came on here hoping to find it available on DVD. Sadly, tragically it's not, but hopefully it will be soon. I read some of the reviews of this and I must say every single one (positive one anyways) is spot on. If you're wondering whether or not to get this, I'd say trust what you read here and take a chance. You won't be sorry. In this review I wont give any spoilers or much plot details. Because this movie is so much more than a mere plot...
Whether it's a cold rainy day, or too much is going on in life, or you've watched one too many action movies lately, or for ANY reason at all, grab a bowl of popcorn, a pillow and your favorite blankey, have a seat and pop this movie in. And then prepare to be healed! ;)
The experience of watching this movie is like this: It starts of gray and dreary, kinda like how things in your life may be going. The plot is wonderfully simple and very easy to follow, while engaging enough to immediately cause you to be concerned and interested about the main characters. Basically two "friends" are sick of how things are going and want to get away. Then after a while you are whisked away to this scenic, majestic world of peaceful serenity and mysterious beauty, and to this ancient Italian chateau, which actually becomes one of the stars in the movie. Once you're there, you are comforted, catered to, entertained, intrigued, and overally refreshed! The movie's slower than snail pace in this colorful otherworld, while retaining it's magical engagement suddenly casts a spell on you before you even know it, and you find yourself absorbed, relaxed, and essentially ON VACATION! As the movie winds up and things get resolved, the rest of the cast of characters comes in and things get a little rompous. But it never breaks its hold on you and you really get a kick out of some of the resulting scenes! And at the end what seals the whole experience before returning you back to your life is a small bit of the only special effects in the movie concerning a certain "tree". The last bit of magic in a fully magical movie. As you return to life you feel as though your soul has taken a holiday and you feel supremely good!
Now for me, that's about the time to pop in another 007 DVD!!
This movie, as you can see, is a rare treat and has an even rarer enchantment within it. There is simply no other movie like it and you owe yourself at least a viewing! You will be enchanted... Enjoy!