BEAMED UP, DOWN AND ACROSS FROM MY AMAZON.CO.UK REVIEWS

Shatner & Nimoy. Kirk & Spock. Bill & Leonard. Two veteran actors now in their eighties chatting informally about their careers and the glory days of STAR TREK. Shatner is, as always, an irrepressible force of nature unlike the more reserved Nimoy, yet both are resolutely on the same page regarding critics and some oft-repeated rumours of in-fighting and scene-stealing, not to mention pay disputes, budget cuts and off-stage relationships. The boys want to set the record straight.

And, in a way, they do. It's certainly no secret that James Doohan, who played Scotty, disliked Shatner intensely for the cavalier way he would treat his co-stars, displaying little regard for their feelings and often muscling in on their limelight. Nimoy, on the other hand, may have been far more diplomatic in how he behaved but he was nonetheless a ferocious negotiator and fiercely protective of the Spock character. Both men conclude that since they were the stars who carried the show then what they did was only fair and right.

MIND MELD is, as one old Vulcan might say, a fascinating insight into the actor's ego and includes some frank admissions of very human failings and tragedies - Nimoy's alcholism, the loss of Shatner's wife in a swimming pool accident and the ups and downs associated with being forever typecast as Starfleet's finest. There are some sweet reminiscences about DeForest Kelley (the actor who played Dr McCoy, a kind and gentle soul both in space and in real life) who completed the Kirk/Spock/McCoy 'trinity' to perfection - a unique balance of characters never bettered in any of the spinoff shows. Tribute is also paid to creator/producer GENE RODDENBERRY.

Not absolutely essential and probably not to every fan's taste, MIND MELD is still worth having if you want to see another side to two living legends (and longtime buddies), laughing, joking and riffing on about phasers and Orion Slave Women and nerve pinches and Hortas and IDIC and all the rest of the stuff that went up to make the finest science-fiction show on tv. Ever.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED