<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FFJYA2">The Big Sleep</a>

I hear the objections. How can you tamper with the virtual perfection of such a classic. The point is well taken because this is my favourite film though it diverges quite a lot from Chandler's masterpiece in some respects. But what a stunning film portrayal. Great actors, great music, great editing, great script...but no colour. I chanced to see the four big Bogart classics of the 40's, The Big Sleep, Casablanca, The Maltese Falcon and Key Largo in what I believe was a Turner initiated digitally enhanced and colourised format many years ago...and it was like seeing these classics in a new dimension. Instead of the rather grey foggy reproduction we are used to, the picture was sharp and I began to see things I hadnt seen in the black and white version. I fell in love again with these classics and treasure the video copies I've retained.

Now I know the objections to this process all too well. Sacrilege they say. Destroying the whole tone of these Film Noir classics. But a few comments in response. Firstly, no one in 1939 objected to the newly available technicolour processes that produced the masterpieces Gone with the Wind and Wizard of Oz. We'd all be horrified to have to watch them in monotone. Ah, but these are not film noir productions they say. Well what about Chinatown, a modern classic of that genre. Would you want to see it only in black and white. Hardly! Secondly, the Bogart films were produced on a limited budget and the only reason we arent seeing these classics in colour is because THEY COULDNT AFFORD TO PAY FOR THE COLOUR PROCESS WITHIN THE AVAILABLE BUDGET. Nobody at that time or today though would be complaining if they had been produced in colour. And I suggest that those who first saw the film would have appreciated them more in a coloured form. Certainly the producers thought so, otherwise why did they produce coloured film posters to promote the films.

Thirdly, the problem is that we get used to seeing things in a certain form through habit...doesnt make them better only comfortable like an old lounge vs a new lounge. But despite our feelings of loss we quickly get used to the new lounge after many sittings and I suspect most people would get used to the 'superior' qualities of the colourised Bogart classics after a few sittings. Or are we going to have the African Queen decolourised because we like Bogart's films that way.

I love the Bogart classics, but I love them more in colour and plead with those who release these classics to DVD to release the colourised versions. Those who want to keep watching the monotone versions can still buy their own preferences. For me though, please make mine a coloured Sleep.