In When Harry Met Sally, or Groundhog Day we follow the characters on a journey of exploration as their relationship develops. Macon Leary, in The Accidental Tourist, sets out on just such a journey, but one in which, as the title suggests, he is at the mercy of unforeseen events - the loss of his son, leading to the departure of his wife, and the misbehaviour of his son's dog, which forces him to turn to Muriel, a dog trainer.
They differ in almost every way. He is in his forties, married his first real girlfriend and now writes travel books for businessmen who would rather stay at home; she is much younger, left high school to marry, and since her divorce has to juggle jobs to support a sickly son.
In the reverse of the usual situation, it is she who pursues him, eventually winning him over when, thanks to her sympathetic response, he is able to confess for the first time his anguish at the loss of his son. From then on he is torn between the two women until, on a trip to Paris, he decides the direction of his life for the first time.
Although the spotlight is on these two, we also meet Macon's eccentric siblings who still live in the house where they grew up and follow the equally unlikely romance between his sister and publisher.
The film is faithfully adapted from Anne Tyler's excellent Baltimore set novel.  Geena Davis won a well-deserved Oscar as Muriel (and contributes a commentary on selected scenes that reveals how eager she was to play the part). William Hurt had an even more difficult task in playing Macon, a man so repressed that he appears emotionless. Although technically a co-star, Kathleen Turner has to make the best of the lesser role of Macon's wife Sarah.
Amy Wright as Macon's sister Rose catches the quirkiness of her character while avoiding caricature, as do Ed Begley Jr and David Ogden Stiers as her brothers. Bill Pullman's publisher is equally believable. And John Williams proves his versatility by contributing a wistful theme that runs throughout the film.
As well as the film itself, in the original Cinemascope format, the DVD includes a generous helping of deleted scenes, an introduction by director, co-writer and co-producer Lawrence Kasdan, and a featurette with contributions from him and others involved in the making of the film.
This is one of my favourite films, and one that, even after many viewings, I enjoy more than ever. Definitely worthy of five stars.