Let me preface this review by letting you know my frame of reference. I am reviewing Things to Come as a film, a historical visual doccument and a DVD
Things To Come has excellent set design, they evoke images that still ring strong. It's depiction of civilization and near feudalism due to constant war and attrition of resources creates a dramatic contrast when the future's 'Everytown' goes from a metropois to a shelled city, to a home for tinhorn dictators.
The second section of the film, the rebuilding and absortion of civillization into the world of science and progress is fun to watch, the sets hold up well today, even the rounded look a airplanes and society.
I also need to preface this review by saying I liked looking at the film but at times gritted my teeth at the dialog. It was the 1930's so I can forgive some overacting and mugging as it was the tradition of it's time, but the endless preaching of science as the savior of mankind and the 'c' word, civillization gets old fast. Worse, the film and dialog seemingly contradict themselves. Science is the only hope for humanity yet it is pondered if things haven't progressed too far.
Think of the film as a bell curve. The action builds, meets it's climax halfway through the film and starts to lose steam. The future city looks great but there's very little that clues us in on society other than H.G. Well's rants about a science based socialist state compared to a dictatiorship.
If you like the politics you might enjoy the dialog. I could have accepted the themes if they would have been backed up by actions. It's a film, not the short story.
The transfer to DVD is poor. If this is the film to buy I can only shudder to think what a bad version is like. There are many segments where the picture literally sparkles unintentionally. The print quality may be acceptable in terms of saving what is left of it to archive but many of it's problems could have been fixed with no continuity changes. The sound is terrible as well, at times distorted but comprehendable. Again, this could have been fixed rather easily if someone warranted the restoration.
Perhaps because Things To Come is difficult for several reasons it is not deemed worth quality commercial treatment. As a result your stereo (if you use one) will sound like the worlds largest $0.50 speaker.
To sum:
Hisorical importance: 5
The film itself: 3
Transfer to DVD: 1
Get it if you want to see some fightenly close to reality scenes of war and destruction or the fine art deco tinged future. There's projections or holograms predicted, and not to far from our possible future, Metropolis influenced buildings that look like late 80's malls. :) Things to Come is visually pleasing as long as you can get past the film transfer. It is an enjoyable flick but probably aimed more for film buffs and scholars than a general audience.