Most of criticism of this movie have focused on the notion that it is too sappy or sentimental.  I see where those critics are coming from.  However, I think their reaction suggests that perhaps they've missed the point of the movie and what makes it great.  It's not supposed to be a serious love story!

This film is full of strengths that don't get much notice in most reviews.  First, the writing is cleaver.  There are plenty of moments for quick laughs.  And the supporting characters are strong; they are a parade of various traits.  They, too, present a quick laugh.  The writing doesn't attempt to dissect any profound meaning out of the story... it just sticks to the surface.  Some people have viewed that as a negative thing, but that is a little unfair; sometimes a little surface humor is needed.

The film is clean entertainment, which is something that is often hard to find.  There is no swearing, nudity, violence, or sex.  Just fun dialog and interesting situations.  The plot is ridiculous, to be sure... two people who meet each other who also happen to be emailing each other and don't know it.  I mean, come on!  But who cares?!?  What is wrong with Hollywood these days is that it tries to take ridiculous stories and make them seem real.  Who ever said that's the way it had to be?  This movie is good fun and part of the reason for that is because it's not meant to be serious.

All of the actors and actresses were good, strong matches for their parts.  Of course, the Hanks/Ryan duo practically goes without saying.  However, there are a lot of other faces in this film, and they all acted wonderfully.

This is a great movie for almost any age group... its certainly appropriate for kids older than nine or so.  It's good for a family movie night or a date night... this is my wife's and my own favorite movie to watch together.  This movie is certainly worth owning.

** Update: If you enjoyed "You've Got Mail," then you should check out its predecessor, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00006FDCV">The Shop Around the Corner</a>, on which "You've Got Mail" is loosely based.  "The Shop Around the Corner" makes for another great family movie or date night flick.