When I watch this film, I feel like I am in Britain during those dramatic months when the RAF was fighting daily to ward off the brain-washed German barbarians, and the world was hanging by a thread. (Helmut Dantin shouts in German like Hitler at one point: "We will destroy everything!")Though it won the Academy Award in 1942, it was in fact made in 1941, and it is about events in 1939-1940, when Britain stood alone, a never-to-be-forgetten moment in human history. People more objective than I will call it propaganda; I call it a dramatic portrayal of the essence of a historial moment.

Willie Wilder manages to create on a Hollywood studio lot the atmosphere of village in Southern England (near Portsmouth perhaps). The flower show scene is superbly done: a wonderful madrigal choir sings a classical English folk song. It is a very English moment. Wilder's got the train (as they were then) right and the station, as well as the Enlish church with its private pews for the gentry. He even manages to get English accents out of everyone except Walter Pidgeon. Ney who plays Miniver's son (in real life about to marry his mother) and little Christopher Severn, her other son, are straight up and down Americans, but they pull off the accent perfectly. Dame May Whittey gives the sense of quality and breeding that was then a part of English character.  Wilder touches affectionately upon English class obsessions, their former love of and excellence at gardening, the cockiness and the fashionable pseudo-radicalism of young Oxbridge graduates, the understated physical bravery of the English people. It's a brilliant job of director and a fabulous piece of revenge on Wilder's part for Hitler's antisemitism, of which he was a victim.

Mrs. Miniver is more than a film. It is part of history. It communicates the indominable spirit of the English people. Ney, who plays Miniver's son, is a subtle combination of youth and very purposeful strength. He giggles and cackles like a boy in front of his parents and siblings, but when he gets the girl alone he knows what he wants, and you recognize that he is very much a man. You realize also that in a Spitfire dogfight with the Germans over England, he will win. There are many angles to this film that warrant watching it a number of times.

"Mrs Miniver" did a lot to bring world opinion around to Britain's side, and in that, it is unique in Hollywood history as film of historical importane.