Julianne Moore shines in this family drama based on a memoir written by one of the ten children of Evelyn and Kelly Ryan.  She portrays a strong-spirited, intelligent woman who is determined to make the best of a bad situation.  Woody Harrelson does a fine job also as her alcoholic husband, who often buys whiskey instead of setting aside milk money for his super-sized family.  "He may be unhelpful, " Evelyn at one point tells one of her daughters, "but he's not mean."

Evelyn finds herself locked into a 1950s nightmare situation as a Catholic mother in 1950s Ohio, when there was no Al-Anon, when she had to rely on her machinist husband's paycheck to feed and clothe her burgeoning family, when she had no one to one to rely on but herself and her verbal skills.  By entering contests and promotions she was able to supplement a  bleak subsistence.  An especially good scene is when she wins a grocery "shopping spree" and brings home caviar and other delicacies for everyone to sample!

One thing that I found rather funny is that the children often remain still and silent while the adults speak and the drama unfolds---a necessary convention for a movie, but unrealistic to anyone who is familiar with the busy noisiness of a group of young children.  Another thing that I found unintentionally humorous is that when Evelyn cooks, she seems to be making meals for a family of four, not twelve, judging from the ingredients and amounts she uses! Hollywood producers and scene designers seem not to be aware of the realities of large family life.

The director, and Julianne Moore, do pull off the challenging feat of making this an upbeat, light story; they do this without a lot of sugar-coating, and do present the serious problems Evelyn had to face.  Julianne Moore has exceptionally good moments in the film as Evelyn maintains her dignity despite chaos, and behaves, in the phrase of that era, "like a lady" no matter what the situation.

This is a nuanced film about a remarkable true-life character.