The general plot has been covered by other reviewers so I'll skip to the chase. While the film does deliver the promised shock values, there are just too many contrivances, which make this film totally unbelievable, beyond the scope of say a `willing suspension of disbelief'. And intelligent it certainly is not. The first plot blunder, and this is a deal-breaker: is that when he gets home from work and realizes he is locked in, he just sits down and watches the video. Now I don't know about you folks, but the minute I found myself locked into my own house, light bulbs removed, furniture stacked in the corners, wife and kids missing, locks on doors changed, and especially finding my cell phone battery replaced by a bullet(!), I'd be busting down the windows and the walls if need be to get out of there. I'd be taking that video tape straight to the police to finish it there and figure out what happened to my family. At that point any reasonable person has enough information to know that his family was either killed or kidnapped, that the video tape was possibly made at gunpoint. Whatever the case there is absolutely no question, five minutes in that something is horribly horribly wrong. The bullet is the icing on the cake and anyone with half a brain cell would be running for the hills.

So after seeing all this, his sitting down, smoking a cigarette, having a beer, and watching this video which takes up the rest of the film, all feels very much contrived. It's completely against all human instinct and creates a strong tension that the film definitely feeds off of, but unfortunately its a *false* tension which the movie does not deserve and left me through the rest of the film going "please, this is just dumb, take the tape, get out of there!"

The next layer of false tension, and this is really the broken backbone of the movie, does not come from any intelligent plot or crafty camerawork, but rather just from the pure shock value of everything the wife says and does on film. Its definitely shocking and I give the film two stars just for the shock value, but its all just so unbelievable. It's just not plausible in any way that somebody could be so very smart and so very well spoken and feel so very much abused *every day* and yet so completely fail for all those years to convey these feelings to their partner. In real life, 13 years earlier in the marriage she would have slapped his hand one night and said `I don't appreciate your touching me like that'. End of story.

Another layer I just can't buy, the film goes on and on about how he married her for her body, well what did she marry him for?! There is no allusion at all to his having changed over time, so what gives?

Bottom line, this is another shallow female revenge flick where the woman's horrific acts are justified by the man's density and inability to understand, fueled by false tensions, and ending in his lying down and giving up (once again, oh please).

There is nothing more intelligent to the shock value here than what you'd see in Reservoir Dogs. Shocking yes, intelligent no. But where Reservoir Dogs had no pretenses of being intelligent or thoughtful and was therefore a solid film in its own right, this one falls flat. If you are just looking for cheap shock factor, check it out, but if you're looking for an intelligent, believable suspense-drama look elsewhere.