What are Ray Bradbury's greatest works?  No, don't answer.  It's doubtful that the first baker's dozen of replies would produce two lists with the same works in the same order.  My first two choices are "Dandelion Wine" and "Something Wicked This Way Comes," in that order.  SWTWC was the earlier book of the two.  Both achieve something that approaches uniqueness.  They capture an honest-to-god slice of life as it really was in the American Midwest in an era that faded by the advent of the 1960s - a time I was fortunate enough to have experienced when I was the age of the boys on center stage in these two books.  In "Dandelion Wine" one forgets all about Bradbury and starts to live his story.  The eyes read but the mind is in Illinois.  One sits in the summer night on the wooden swing of the front porch (people really did that once), hears the crickets chirping in the night and the steam train whistles singing their siren song as the great locomotives follow their tracks through a river valley somewhere near.  In the earlier "Something Wicked," Bradbury nearly realized the same magic level of time travel.  The steam whistles also sing their song, but there's a chill on the Midwestern Wind and the smell of burning autumn leaves in the air.  "Something Wicked" has one more element that Bradbury no longer needed in "Dandelion Wine," the supernatural.  As autumn leaves drift by their windows, two boys in Bradbury's Midwest do indeed hear the steam whistle blow, with the train bringing a fell carnival to town, one run by the Autumn People, a magical and devilish folk who thrive on other people's misery and unfulfilled desires.  So far, all of this applies equally in the original book and in the film, but here the two part and travel fascinatingly different paths.  With "Something Wicked," Bradbury got an opportunity to tell his story a second time and in a different manner.  Both the book and the screenplay are by Bradbury, but the screenplay is anything but a film version of the book.  One really would expect more than that from Bradbury, and one gets more.  The central characters in the book are the two boys, Will Holloway and Jim Nightshade, who encounter evil and with help from Will's father, the janitor at the local library, conquer it and advance on their own path to maturity.  In the film, Bradbury tells his story, really the same story again, but with an entirely different focus, now upon Will's father, Charles Holloway, who in this telling is the village librarian.  It's a story of an aging man who at last, in confrontation with the wickedness that has come his way, must deal with his own inadequacies, conquering them as he conquers the supernatural evil, with help, of course, from the boys, who use the lessons of his experience to advance on their own path to maturity.  Which is better, the book or the film?  That is the question, as Hamlet said.