We have all seen and marveled at the colorful designs of various butterfly species in our backyards, or along a path in nature [My son Jeremy has an entire collection of butterflies of various sizes and many colors he brought back from our stay in West Africa]. But seldom, if ever, have we stopped, and asked questions like these, a) Where do they come from? b) How do they sustain themselves? c) How do they reproduce? d) How and where do they spend the cold months of winter? And e) How do they die?

 This DVD offers a rare insight into the lifecycle (i.e. the development) of a butterfly from an egg, laid by its female parent on the underside of a leave, hatching into a voracious leaf-eating caterpillar, to suddenly stop growing and transforming itself into a chrysalis, from which it emerges as a full-grown butterfly, able to fly from flower to flower and find its nourishment no longer from leaves, but from the nectar of flowers, which he forages with his specially-designed proboscis.

 Most amazing in this lifecycle is the spectacular migration of the Monarch butterflies before the winter from Northern USA and Canada to Mexico's Transvolcanic Mountains, and their return in the spring to the same location as their parents, laying their eggs in the very place the new generation of butterflies has never seen nor visited.

 What accounts for this precisely programmed migration, as well as the precisely programmed mutation from a caterpillar to an adult Monarch butterfly, with no visible blueprint for its intercontinental migration.

 Before ending this review, a special mention must be made for the superior excellence in cinematographic, photographic, microscopic, and computer animated representaton combined with magnetic resonance imaging documentation displayed all along in this fascinating and spectacular movie. The narrative is supportive of, and parallel with, the visual documentation, without ever becoming intrusive.

 Thanks to these advanced, hitherto unavailable, technological tools, scientists and biologists and entomologists are now able to examine the butterfly's "superbly engineered body, its compound eyes made of thousands of individual lenses, its colourful wings covered with microscopic solar panels that warm the insect's muscles for flight, and navigational systems that unerringly guide Monarch butterflies on their annual migration from Canada to Mexico."

 In the last part, as would any decent observer, the producers raise the question of how this came all about; they are not shy, and nor should they be, of raising the distinct possibility of an intelligent design (implying a Designer), rather than attributing this extraordinary and incredible biological transformation and amazing intercontinental migration to a random process of chance and natural selection.

 Some reviewers have critiqued, if not criticized, the producers' perspective on intelligent design vs. a process of natural selection by random evolution.

 It just escapes my feeble mind how such would be possible, not over millions and billions of years, but well night within the span of a couple of days and weeks. And if this transformation can be defined as `evolution,' then this evolution is very well `designed,' indeed.

 After watching this amazing video, you will never be able to look at nature around you OR see the world around you with the same eyes, and much less with the same worldview. This DVD will provide you, indeed, with a life- and worldview-changing experience. If only for that, it is worth paying the price for it, including the shipping

/////////////////////
= END OF REVIEW

TAGS: insects, caterpillar, chrysalis, butterfly, transformation, metamorphosis, migration, Canada, USA, Mexico.

NOTE: Should you, the reader of this review, have any question(s), comment(s), and/or suggestion(s) about my review, please feel free to contact me: I can be reached via email at {jpheldt123[at]yahoo[dot]com}.