When Disney's gold classic edition DVD of "Robin Hood" came out a few years ago I was very disappointed with the transfer. Disney just quickly ported over the VHS version straight to DVD - from a less from pristine print in monophonic sound. Besides the original trailer there was precious little extra for animation fans.

While Disney's 1973 version of "Robin Hood" is far from their best animated film, over the years this movie has gained legendary status with anthropomorphic art fans. Because "Robin Hood" was the first animated film from a major studio with an all-animal cast playing roles usually reserved for human characters, it holds a unique place in animation history.

Disney's "Robin Hood" has left a huge influence in furry art, comics, Japanese manga, anime, video games (Nintendo's "StarFox"), and later animated classics such as Don Bluth's "Secret Of NIMH" and Disney's own "Lion King". Many furry fans fondly remember seeing this movie in the theater in 1973-4 or 1982 when it was re-released, or when it ran many times on the Disney Channel in the 80's and 90's.

The new DVD transfer is beautiful - little details in the colors, the animation and especially the backgrounds that looked washed out on the old "Gold Classic Collection" DVD are now sharp and clear. But the movie has been cropped from a 1.37:1 aspect ratio to a 1.75:1 aspect ratio to make it work best for widescreen TV's. Luckily Disney did a good job of cropping it. (No crowns, caps or foreheads were chopped off in the process!) Still I wish a fullscreen version of this new transfer would have been included to keep die-hard animation freaks happy.

The sound quality is also a big improvement in the clarity of voices, music and sound effects. But like the "Aristocrats" DVD, parts of the orchestral backing track have been mixed into "fake" stereo for some scenes. I guess only mono tapes of these backing tracks exist in the Disney vaults with no multi-track tapes to remix from.

The bonus features are again hit and miss - IMO the alternate ending would have made this a better movie with critics and adult fans. Some might say it was a little too dark or slow moving for children. Sadly it was never fully animated and is only presented in storyboard form in rough drawings. It is worth watching. The gallery is also fascinating just to view the early forms of the characters and other curios. I wish it was longer, but I can't stand the child narrator. I suggest using the still gallery view for this. Other extras are strictly for the kids again. From the skimpy features I get the feeling there isn't much left, or Disney didn't want to spend more time money to dig further into the vaults.

Is the new DVD worth buying? Yes if you love the film and have a quality widescreen TV or home theater setup just to see this gorgeous transfer that finally does the film justice. If you already own the original DVD or VHS and only have a small screen TV you might want to rent it or buy it when it's discounted.