When I first bought this film I had already knew the plot and most of what happened in each movie. But it never failed to keep my interest. The first film,'Dumplings', would have to be my second favorite of the three. I think this movie was meant to be a way for Fruit Chan to express how he feels about the Chinese policy and the way women are desperate to stay youthful even in old age. With China's one-child-to-a-home policy, abortion probably wouldn't be out of the ordinary(though Taboo to speak of) but I think what Chan was trying to say is with this film is "If this isn't wrong, then why is this wrong? If this isn't going too far, then why is this too far? Why is this so important that you are willing to take it to the next level?"(Sorry If this is giving too much of the film away)But, I found this movie to be nicely put together and well rounded. I give this film a 4 out of 5. Can't wait to see the full length version of 'Dumplings'!
The second film, 'Cut', was the least favorite of mine, though it was entertaining and the most violent and gory of the three films. I feel that too much of the film was done in a comical way and had a lot of unnecessary elements to it. I was expecting a lot from Park but I felt that it was a great effort being his first installment into the horror genre and when all and all each film were "different depictions of how each director thought a horror should be". Also, like most Korean films and dramas, the ending of this film didn't fail to disappoint me. Though, I do kinda understand the ending. I think this story ended the way it did for one reason, spark of insanity. Second reason: In the end, he called his wife "kid" and look at the kid as though talking to his wife. I thought that since before where he had to choke the child in order for them to be free, maybe it was easier for him to kill his wife who he actually had animosity toward than an innocent child. I give this film a 3.5 out of 5.
The last film, 'Box', was my favorite. I liked the artistic element and superb direction and production value. Though slow paced, It doesn't fail to keep me interested. As Takashii mentioned in the commentary that this 48 minute film could've been told in an even shorter amount of time. While I agree, he does a great job of adding the element of surprise. Though some wouldn't classify this as a horror film, I believe it takes it a little further than just blood, knives and senseless killing and actually makes you think and feel. It blurred the line between what was a dream and was reality as you might notice at the end of the film. Also loved this film because it was, how should I say, oddly(and possibly unexceptionaly) erotic, which I loved the most. I rate this feature a 5 out of 5.
Over all, I give this film a 5 out of 5 with the exception of 'Cut'. Buy it!^_^