After enjoying the classic version of this movie, which I would rate a five star movie in every way, we inadvertantly purchased the messed up "Fully Restored" "Masterpiece" version.  Throughout the whole movie my wife and I looked at each other making comments to each other like "there it goes again, the voice changed", and, "I don't remember that", while our daughter, who usually enjoys this movie to no end wandered the room playing with her Barbies.  Disney "Fully Restored" this movie as only the current Disney could.  They must have assumed right away that it needed alot of improvement (mistake), added scenes (to further explain the story to the audience?  another mistake), and added a whole lot of dialog (again, to further explain the story?  An incredibly large mistake.)  Or maybe this was all done to make it look more like the sequel, and to charge a few more quid.  First, the movie needed no improvement, it IS a masterpiece in its original form.  It is a classic story, told and illustrated in a very good format.  The new scenes are unnecessary, to say the least.  Our child loved to follow the story from scene to scene rivetted to the tale, the interaction between the dogs, and the action in the chases.  I know that I loved that too.  Now with the new scenes and the added dialog it is just too much.  The dialog is the most disappointing part of this tape!  The original voices are kept from the original scenes, and new sometimes very dissimilar, voices are used in the new scenes.  Peggy Lee's voice is there, and then its not.  Another voice with some random city accent is added.  The same for the other characters.  The emphasis is on the dogs and their interaction with the human characters as another creature in their lives in the original version.  Now the humans have much more of a part in the movie taking the focus away from the dogs.  The original Lady and the Tramp, Aristocats, and others were very well written and directed.  Disney took those very good movies and did a ruinous adaptation.  On the reverse side of the box it says, in very hard to read script, "This film has been modified from its original version.  It has been formatted to fit your TV."  How misleading!