What a Way to Go has a few things going for it.  Comedy is definitely NOT one of them, but then Shirley Maclaine is one of the unfunniest actresses
that ever lived. Her comedic attempts being limited to whiny imitations of Lucy Riccardo.  And apparently the producers were unsuccessful in getting her
to clip her 1" long pink-lacquered supernails in the opening scenes as a pre-adolescent girl!  Perhaps that is a satire element that simply goes
over my head?  It's hard to say when this movie is being funny or lame so my judgment on the supernails may be unreliable.

But Maclaine makes a splendid mannequin for Edith Head's fabulous technicolor gowns and furs.
That is the first reason you might want to watch this 60s glam fest.  The second reason, which is more interesting to me, is the set designs, cars,
airplanes and props.  This was the age of Erico phones and stream-lined vinyl clad couches and nauseating color combinations that
somehow worked.  If you love Mad Men you'll love the cars, clothes, jewels and furniture in this historically valuable fashion flick.

Aside from the gargantuan budget for all the cosmetic elements there really isn't much of a movie to watch.  It starts off with a wonderfully hilarious scene with
Margaret Dumont as Louisa May's (Maclaine's) mama.  The only belly laugh evoked in this flaccid satire is when Dumont barks out the line "I HATE HER GUTS!"
in reference to another woman in town who is rich and had snubbed Dumont at church that morning.

The male leads are all good, especially Paul Newman (the third and most potent reason to see this thing) whose mouthwatering abs make you long for more!
And there is a fairly risqu&eacute; shower scene showing a sideview of Newman's naked body up to his butt. (We boys weren't allowed to see this movie in the theater when it was released).
Newman was truly one of the most beautiful male stars ever to grace the
silver screen and he was funny in the part of the nutty artist, though over-played like every other part in this movie.  Subtle is not a word
that can be applied to mid-60s technicolor extravaganzas like this.

It's also great to see Gene Kelly looking handsome as ever and dancing like a god.

I hadn't seen What a Way to Go since it was on tv back in the broadcast days when the networks showed fairly recent movies in prime time.
It was funny to a young boy then but it ain't anymore to this jaded, beaten-up middle-ager.

Final verdict:  Great costumes and Erico phones and Newman's abs are not great reasons for wasting 2 hours of one's life.
But if you a Mad Man addict, go for it!  I was fairly entertained by that aspect of this vintage 60s excess.