That was Paul Newman's response to Jack Warden, as Warden massages Mr. Newman's back and tries to assuage him by telling him there will be other cases. ( Pardon me, I always wanted to use the word ASSUAGE in a review ).
I live in Connecticut, and my wife and I drive thru Westport regularly, on our way to Trader Joe's. I know exactly where Mr. Newman lives,( I'll never tell ) and I always kid to my wife,
 " I wonder what Paul is doing today? " Then I jokingly say that maybe we'll see him at Trader Joe's ( grocery store ) or at Mario's ( great place for lunch or dinner). Of course if I ever did actually meet him, I'd be stammering and babbling just like Jackie Gleason used to do in his old Honeymooner's television show. But enough of my dreaming. So, how was the movie? Sometimes there are events or moments in a movie that stay with you for a long time. In this movie, those times were: " There are no other cases..This is the case! " and the confrontation Mr. Newman had with the judge, when he proclaims, " I know about you! " as he taps his fingers on the judge's desk. Classic moments.
If I ever had a chance to become an actor, and had my pick of
 acting coaches, one of them would be Paul Newman. I'm not sure how he does it, but somehow, after watching him on screen for a few moments, I forget he is Paul Newman, and believe he is the character he is portraying.I guess that's the " magic " of great acting. They make it look so effortless. And now onto Jack Warden. He is perhaps one of the most under-rated actors in history. A great performance from a great actor.
Back to Paul Newman. The next time you watch one of his movies, watch the pauses...the times when he's not speaking. It's the entire package that makes an actor great. It's the phrasing, the reaction, the eye movements, the pauses and how long he holds them. ( Sure the director has a lot of input too)- but just watch him. What you are witnessing is a STAR in action. As I write this ( June 29, 2006 ) Paul Newman is 81 years old. He may be a little slower, a little more wrinkled, but his acting just gets better with age. ( Watch Empire Falls ). I truly hope he makes more movies. And who knows, perhaps one day I WILL run into him at Trader Joe's or Mario's place. And in true Jackie Gleason form, say to him, " Hubba, Hubba, Hubba. "
And that, my friends, will be no act.