We own this one in both English and German (our family is bilingual). We watched the German version first and everyone loved it! From the 3 year old to the 42 year old grumpy, old german man! We find ourselves quoting this one constantly. The voices were classic! We really felt for Sid (the faultier - sloth), even though he is so annoying - in an hilarious way. Manny (the mammoth) is the large, in-charge loner, who finds himself "picking-up" helpless creatures and playing the "father" role to the sloth and ... a human baby? You find yourself really feeling for Manny too. He's all alone in the world, but not by his own design ... at least originally. He finds himself helping Sid to return this baby to its "herd." Diego is the Saber-tooth, who is charged by his "herd" with the task of bringing the baby back to his leader, so that his leader can avenge an attack on his "herd" by the humans. Diego leads the unlikely trio (sloth, mammoth, and himself - with the human baby) along a round about path toward the human encampment, into an ambush of tigers. Along the way, they learn to trust and depend on each other. This human baby becomes the adhesive that bonds them together. You even feel for Diego, because he isn't valued by the other tigers, but finds his place within this odd-trio.
The English version? We watched the English version and I would have sworn (I'm an American mind you, born and raised in the US) that these people were pulled off of the street and asked to read a script on the spot. Some of the jokes were funnier in German too. "Ich esse kein Fastfood." Can be translated as either "I don't eat fastfood" or "I don't eat junkfood" but given that Sid is a sloth, fastfood is a riot!! Junkfood is ... okay. The voices though, lacked any real emotion and so you walk away from the film devoid of the identification with the characters, which as we all know, is what really makes a movie great!
"Arme Tiger Katzi-Tatzi" (said "arme Teeger Katzee-Tatzee") "Sid, Tiger Katzi-Tatzi wird uns f&uuml;hren." (wird uns f&uuml;hren = is going to lead us)
Yet another piece of proof that it is better to understand 2 languages than 1? Perhaps. Or perhaps it is a message that a clever movie can be made tremendously better by excellent casting, even when you can't see their faces.