Popular was a great TV series, essentially a non-musical precursor to Glee -- and both series are the brainchildren of Ryan Murphy. Unfortunately, ihowever, Popular fell apart in its second season and wasn't renewed.

The series revolves around two girls -- head cheerleader Brooke and student journalist Samantha -- who are leaders of their respective -- and warring -- cliques, essentially the jocks and the geeks. The conceit is that Brooke and Sam are suddenly forced to inhabit the same household and become stepsisters as Brooke's divorced dad and Sam's widowed mom fall in love and move in together. However, except for their differing hair colors and styles (Brooke, played by Leslie Bibb sports a sleek blonde bob, whereas Sam, played by Carly Pope, wears her brunette hair long and wavy), and fashion styles (Brooke's look is tailored and classic, Sam's more experimental and artsy), the girls are, facially, almost ringers for one another (a fact they have yet to discover, or exploit, ala the old Patty Duke Show).

Rounding out the ensemble are star quarterback Josh, Brooke's on-again, off-again boyfriend; Harrison John, Sam's best friend who has a longstanding crush on Brooke; Nicole, Brooke's sardonic best friend; Lily, a student activist who becomes Brooke's rival for Josh; Mary Cherry, a debutante from Texas with more money than brains; Carmen, a member of Sam's circle who is probably the best dancer from the school, but was turned down for a spot on the cheerleading squad because of her weight; Sugar Daddy, Josh's best friend and fellow football player; and chemistry teacher Bobbi Glass, arguably the prototype for Glee's Sue Sylvester.

Some episodes are stronger that others, with the very strongest concentrated in the first two thirds of the season, but all are generally superior to the second season, when Popular lost much of what made it special, and became mundane and derivative. (Perhaps, as with the original My So-Called Life,  audiences weren't ready until Glee came along almost a decade later. Overall, though, Popular gets inside the heads of its characters more than Glee, and those characters have more depth and subtlety; indeed, in some ways Popular can be viewed as the smarter older sibling of Glee.)  In particular, the first season's special holiday episode, "Fall On Your Knees," is a standout: the best retelling of Charles Dickens's oft-parodied "A Christmas Carol" that I've ever seen.