During the Seventies, there were many collaborations of Giancarlo Giannini and Lina Wertmuller. These films -- the Seduction of Mimi, Love and Anarchy, Swept Away, etc. ----  are classics in the most complete sense of the word, but the Seven Beauties has the distinction of being the most perfectly executed movie, the Chinatown of the Italian cinema. Wertmuller, as in most of her films, both wrote the screenplay and directed. It is a character study of a small-time gangster, essentially a ne'er-do-well, a hapless wannabe who accidentally kills another gangster to protect the honor of his sister, and ends up in a mental hospital for the criminally insane. Giannini's character always manages to get himself in trouble, and so found himself in trouble with the hospital authorities. Always seeking the easy way out of troubling situations, he joined the war to escape the mental hospital, only to find himself in a concentration camp. His penchant for gliding through life did not work. At the start of the movie, Giancarlo's character is a somewhat comic figure.  But once the war ended he is a much more serious person, transformed by the events of the war and, the movie puts forward, a better person. It is the ultimate coming of age movie.

The movie operates on several levels. It is also a social and political commentary of the WWII, which, when the movie was released, was a relatively recent memory. The movie depicts a world gone crazy, so what better way for the Giancarlo character to beat the murder rap than by acting as if he believes he is Mussolini? The madness is represented by the horrors of the war and the concentration camp, to be sure, but it is also indicated by the disparity of the jail sentence given to the Giancarlo character (12 years for murder), as opposed to the sentence given to another prisoner the character meets, a sober, thoughtful socialist writer, who was given twenty eight years for publishing a newspaper. World gone mad, indeed.

The transformation from the pre-war gangster without a care in the world to the serious, purposeful mature man is a wonder to behold. The specific events which transformed the personality of Giannini's character is some of the most gut-wrenching moments in cinematic history. Shirley Stoler's role as the concentration camp commandant is bone-chilling. The Academy nominated the movie for best picture, best actor (Giancarlo Giannini), best director (Lina Wertmuller), and best foreign film, no mean honor. While there were other collaborations between Giannini and Wertmuller, none were as powerful or intense as this film.