A snow covered fairy land bound by an evil white witch. A timid fawn carrying an umbrella. Talking beavers and other friendly animals. Tales of a great lion call Aslan who can make all things right.  Four children step through an old wardrobe and stumble upon this new and mysterious world where their destiny is suddenly thrust upon them, as it quickly becomes their job to not only help save Narnia, but one of their own as well. Based upon the all time classic by C.S. Lewis, "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe" by Walt Disney Pictures and Walden Media, is an excellent film production of a beloved fairytale where real life children are able to escape their own world to a magical land where they can become heroes to fight for truth.
 The story opens with the four Pevensie children: Peter (William Moseley), Susan (Anna Popplewell), Edmond (SkandarKeynes), and Lucy (Georgie Henley) being sent away from their London home to great country side manor of an old professor to escape the bombing raids of WWII. One day while playing an animated game of "hide-and-seek," Lucy, the youngest of the lot, hides in an old wardrobe only to suddenly discover that she is not in the wardrobe, but a magical snow covered land as well. After visiting with dear fawn, Mr. Tumnus (James McAvoy), she soon returns back to her siblings with a seemingly tall tale a grand adventure of a great land in need of rescue from the hand of an evil White Witch (Tilda Swinton).
 Although the other Pevensie children find Lucy's tale amusing, they hardly choose to believer her. One day Edmond too stumbles into the magical land of Narnia, only to fall prey to the wiles of the evil White Witch who feeds his selfish desires, but he too quickly returns home to his siblings. Finally, all four children are thrust together into a grand adventure through the wardrobe where they must not only fight for each other and save Edmond from the White Witch's schemes, but join the in the fight along with their talking animal friends in hopes of saving Narnia. The soon begin looking to the great Savior of Narnia, Aslan (Liam Neeson), the "Great Lion" and only one who can ever hope to truly save the land of Narnia from the evil schemes of the White Witch.
 Intrigue, suspense, and adventure, this wonderful film depicts excellent cinematography that is sure to delight viewers young and old. Released theaters in 2005 and in DVD format in 2006, this movie quickly became a smashing worldwide hit through its top of the line mix of real actors and computer generation. Vividly real in its color and detail, the film seemingly draws the viewer into the story, and leaves them wishing they too could stumble into such delightful fairy worlds. Depicting child actors as its main characters, these youngsters do an excellent job carrying the starring roles through a perfect mixture of their own personalities that seem to genuinely fit so well with that of their roles. The only character who could possibly use a bit of improvement is that of the White Witch, who although plays her role in an excellent dramatic fashion, could have been portrayed a bit better with costumes and props that might have "fit" more with her harsh and horrid, evil role.
 Fitting with the "family friendly" style of the film, this movie depicts a suspenseful river crossing and climatic "bloodless" battle of the good Narnians against the evil White Witch and her minions in a classic battle of good versus evil, in a dramatic, yet tasteful fashion which leaves the suspense, but takes away the ugly goriness of  real life battles. The great wild, yet good Lion, Aslan must also play the key role in this tale of not only being the "savior" of Narnia, but one who is even willing to even give his life in the place of an undeserving traitor, while his role provides a clear parallel to another "Great Savior" as well.
 Quickly becoming one of my personal favorite movies, I would highly recommend this film to viewers of all ages who would enjoy an adventurous touching tale of a land where children can save the world, a great Savior pays the final price, and good always triumphs in the end. Astounding cinematography, a delightful soundtrack, thrilling effects, and wonderful acting, this movie certainly leaves viewers of all ages well pleased and wishing for more, or at least hoping to discover their own fairy land in the depths their own wardrobes.