I remember watching this show back when it was airing on TV over 10 years ago.  Gene Roddenberry, father of Star Trek, re-envisioned his view of the future and created an entire new Sci-Fi  saga.  The show is based upon notes that Gene Roddenberry had written back in 1976, found after his death I believe.  Andromeda is a show that has its share of good and bad moments, sometimes even falling prey to bad writing.  Overall the show does what it sets out to do, and that is entertain you.  Below I've broken the review down into a review of the show itself, and a review of the box-set.

*ANDROMEDA: THE SHOW
The biggest effort to Andromeda can be felt in season 1 and 2.  The storyline is very focused, and flows together nicely.  Kevin Sorbo aka Captain Dylan Hunt aka Hercules! ends up being trapped for over 300 years in a Black Hole, only to be salvaged out thinking his sentient ship (Andromeda) was abandoned.  With the once proud Commonwealth long gone, Captain Hunt sets out on a crusade to restore the Commonwealth and order to the known universe.

With his newly found crew the show follows his quest to restore peace one episode at a time.  Season 1 and 2 are strongly focus on this but once we hit season 3 things start to take a turn for the worse.  The show begins to suffer from clear writing problems and begins to lose focus.  Episodes still remain very entertaining but the focus seems to have been lost , replace by a multitude of subplots.  Season 4 slowly  re-focused itself only to toss viewers into the infamous Season 5.

Season 5 is a love or hate season from what I have seen all over forums.  You either will love it, or wonder if you ended up with a completely different show.  Season 5 moves slowly and feels like the writers were just running with a random idea.  The sci-fi aspect seemed to take a back seat for more of a  Small-Town Western, mystery feeling.  If you stick with it however, pieces begin to fall into place and leads into some of the best episodes of the series(in my opinion).  Overall I would give Andromeda as a show **4 stars**.  It would easily entertain sci-fi fans, and despite season 3 and 4 having some bad moments the show never loses its entertainment value.

*ANDROMEDA: THE BOXSET
This is easily one of my favorite box-set's I own.  It is a very simple piece that has been crafted exceptionally well.  I've owned mine over 3 years and it has held together exceptionally well.  The set comes in a cardboard case with artwork around it (as seen in the sample image).  All the episodes are spread out over slim-case DVD packs, 2 disks per set.  When placed in proper order the slim-cases create an image of the Andromeda.

Each disk contains a variety of content besides the standard episodes.  Interviews, terminology, articles about the lore, details about the various ships, bloopers, behind the scenes, alternative takes, deleted scenes.. it is all here.  It is a mammoth package that feels truly like a 100% complete collection.  It is great that after you watch a few episodes, you can then look at alternative dialog options or scenes for that episode.  The bloopers can be very funny!  Some of my favorites are when Kevin Sorbo accidentally becomes "Hercules" and tends to break the set pieces(Example: Sorbo grabbed a console and acted as if they just impacted something.  In doing so he broke the console!  Next thing you know everyone starts going HERCULES Hercules!! )  The behind the scenes shows you how much care went into the show and just how down to Earth the cast and crew were.

OVERALL Andromeda as a show gets 4 stars... the Slipstream set itself gets 5 stars easily!  If you can find one at a reasonable price it is worth it.  If not, the current box-set's being offered are a good alternative if you simply want to experience the show.