Caution! Almost un-watchable without your remote! BUT, great if you can fast-forward. If you want a real "migraine" watch this one all the way through, without your remote. I counted 97 camera shot cutaways during "Baby I'm Amazed", and that's about average per song, back and forth from the audience to the band, back to the band, back to the audience, over and over and over. No music (as great as it is) can save this DVD! I've never seen anything like it in my life. For some odd reason, most of the reviewers on here don't seem to mind it. Yeah, the shots of Red Square are very beautiful, and the show is quite a spectacle....BUT. From what i see on Amazon, ALL of Paul's concerts follow the same format, "The Audience" (with Paul McCartney)

Another problem I have with it is, way too much dialogue on how the Beatles were responsible for the fall of communism. They could have talked about that for 5-10 minutes, and got it over with. All the boring dialog and shots of Paul at various kid's schools around town, riding his bike (illegally) with "golddigger Heather" through Red Square, got old real quick. I don't remember where he played two songs back to back without breaking away to some boring piece of re-hashed theory of the "fall of communism" factor. It's intersting to watch one time, but that's it. (Again, leave that remote in hand.) Really, this show is more a history lesson than concert.

On a positive note, 2 concerts for the price of one. The song selections are great, being mostly Beatle songs! (unlike most of the rest of his concerts). Awesome songs not on most of his shows, include "Let Me Roll It" and "I Got a Feeling." The sound production is pretty awesome in most spots. Paul's voice is pretty damn good too. Paul's drummer is a "wildman"!. Thought he was gonna have a heart attack up there! Watch for the amazing rendition of part of "Foxey Lady", after "Let Me Roll It!" Second concert from St. Petersburg closes with a "hammering" "Helter Skelter"!

The 2nd show from St. Petersburg just doesn't sound as good as the 1st show from Red Square for some reason. (maybe just hearing things, or could be that it's a daylight show?)

I don't see how Paul could be happy with the overall production of this one.