It is a shame when this film can't even manage a DVD release even with the potential commercial profitability of Stoppard's name after his lamer inside joke, "Shakespeare in Love" won best picture.  There is no sense to the universe, I guess.
A brilliant spoof on Hamlet which manages a shockingly comparable level of depth to the masterpeice it takes place within, when it comes to dealing with certain "existential" motifs.  Of course, the vast range of insight and interest of Hamlet is not paralleled here.  Nonetheless, this is a sublime meditation on the life and death of the peripheral characters of life, who are written in to the story solely to die, whose fate does not make sense to them as a series of interconnected meaningful events as it does for great men like Hamlet, but rather whose fate is as pointless and as uncomprehended as their sudden awakening to find themselves thrown into a situation they couldn't account for to begin with.  The film is about waking up one day and finding yourself just being-there, not knowing how you got there or why or even what your own name is for sure.  It is about wandering around as greatly important things are going on and just not understanding them or even what they have to do with your life.  
It is the tragedy of existentialism, not the great faults of the great men leading to ruin as in the tragedy of classicism, but instead the sudden insurgence of immanent ruin without a clear explanation of why or even of what the life that is ending was about---what purposes started it, defined it, propelled it, and then wanted it dead.  It is the characters invented by accident as part of some plot device to which they are just a means, becoming self aware and asking what they are doing there, where they came from and then suddenly why they have to die.  Like the creatures of a blind chance and unexplained purposes suddenly developing a sense of that they should have meaning, that where they're going should make sense, only to die without anything being explained to them.  Whether one embraces existentialism as articulate and practically systematic philosophy or in some degree of feeling of existential tragedy and responsibility, the experience of it in this film is well worth the having.
These brilliant ideas that I can only stumble around trying to articulate in words here are so perfectly portrayed through both the script and through what Leonard Maltin above calls the film's "lifelessness."  I disagree with Maltin that this element proves the film should have been left on the stage.  This is a film that is ABOUT a sense of emptiness, it is the tone and the theme driving all the witty movement of the dialogue and the plot.  Plus Stoppard's use of visual symbolism and a handful of great sight gags justify this film version of his momentous play.
AND last but not least, could there be a finer treat than the chance to see Tim Roth, Gary Oldman and Richard Dreyfus as the actors to immortalize it?