Scarface is probably my favorite movie.  It's very rare that I ever end up liking the bad guy of a movie, but this was one of those rare occasions.  But Tony wasn't really a bad guy, was he?  He was dirt poor and did what he felt he had to do to enjoy life.  Following the rules meant he would work as a dish washer.  Breaking the rules meant he would have more cash than he could possibly spend.

But here's what I liked about Tony.  Even though he was a thug, and he definitely was, he had a soft side.  He was saddened by the fact that he couldn't have kids.  He wasn't a womanizer.  When an associate of his asks Tony to carry out a hit, in exchange for getting him out of trouble, Tony refuses.  He refuses because carrying out this hit meant innocent children would be killed.  Tony is many things, but he won't be responsible for the death of innocent children.  Instead, he shoots his associate before the hit was carried out.  Tony wanted to make peace with his mother and take care of her and his sister (since his father ran out on them when they were kids).  She refused because she knew what he was.  I don't feel sorry for Tony, but I did find him to be a likable person.  If he could have made lots of money legitimately, he would have done so.  Aside from that, aren't his oppressors criminals too?  No, because his oppressors are the ones who get to make up the rules!  By what authority?  By the authority granted to them by the fact that they have bigger guns.

Scarface is extremely violent and has more curse words than any other movie I can think of.  However, it's a great movie and a great story.  Tony gets what's coming to him in the end.  He chose to live by the sword and so he died by the sword.  But in the end, I can't help but ask myself who the real bad guys are.  Don't get me wrong, he was a bad guy and deserved what he got.  But was he the only real bad guy in this story?  He was only in business because there were cops out there accepting bribes.  It's as they say, "don't hate the player, hate the game."  If Scarface were a real person, I would have no sympathy for him.  But since this is only a movie, I guess it sort of justifies it...at least in my mind.