Buffy the Vampire Slayer is my comfort food. When everything was going wrong I simply turned to the world of Buffy. On bad days, good days, even boring days, I can find myself selecting an episode that I could relate to at the moment and just dive in. The show never ceases to put a smile on my face and brighten my day. Buffy is at the heart of any teenager or even grown up who can look back on their life and say "hey I remember how that felt". While it won't be an instant winner for every person like it was for me, the show still has life lessons for everyone while throwing in a witty pun.

So do I recommend this for other people? Yes. Of course, I don't want people to simply take my opinion and spend big bucks on a complete collection of a show they are skeptical of. Instead I hope for those of you who don't know much about the show that you find a place that will let you rent the first two seasons (or borrow from a friend you know that has it). You can usually decide whether you like it or not by the end of season two (NOTE: season one is not that developed and only lasts 12 episodes, while season two has 22 episodes in which  the character development is much more in depth) . While it is nice to view the entire series before buying this collection, which may take some time (due to that fact that there are seven season and a whopping 144 total episodes) but if you find yourself hooked from the start it might not be a bad idea. The chosen collection comes with all 144 episodes (each looking like the original disc found the complete season boxed sets) and it comes with a bonus special feature disc. This collection is very compact so it takes up less space than if you were to buy the original complete season boxed sets (not the slim set versions)

Now for those of you who are already Buffy fans:

1. This is the perfect set, all in one Buffy DVD buy. If you don't own the other releases already I totally recommend this. If you already own the complete season sets this is not a necessary buy. The huge difference is the design and bonus disc.
2. However if you are like me and you find that your DVD collection is a little worn out (In my case I own the complete season boxed sets 1-7 and The Chosen Collection only because my older sets -for example most my season three discs - were scratched and some wouldn't play. So I purchased this item when it was at a gold box deal which was well worth it to watch those episodes again. For the ones not in need of a replacement it was nice knowing I have a back up)
3. If you are crazy and must own everything...you might have some obsession problems. Just kidding. It's your decision to buy all DVD's Buffy related. But seriously that could get pretty pricey...

Overall I find this to be the best show I have ever seen. And while I WISH everyone in the world would just appreciate Joss's brilliant creation, I can't (where's Anya when you need her. Lol) I hope those of you first timers will give it a chance because it really is a well deserving show. For many, you either Love it or Hate it. I hope this helps make your decision easier.

Happy Shopping