The critics slam this movie... and it is an easy target, action-oriented movies usually are. It's always easier to tear something down rather than build it up, but I'm going to give my best shot at defending my four star rating.
I will grant the critics that the acting is only "fair." I will also grant that the plot is unbelievable some of the time.
Sure, the actors in this film are young and occasionally show their inexperience. However, I would say that Vin Diesel's performance stands out. Sure it is a "race movie," and nobody will give him credit, but he took a one-dimensional character and gave Dom Turetto a bit of swagger, strength, but also a sense of fatherly protectionism and remorse for his past crime. Dom Turetto is the father-figure for the team of racers which is the focus of the plot. He is also the anti-hero to Paul Walker's protagonist, Brian Spilner/O'Connor.
As for the plot, I will concede that it is far-fetched, with its semi-truck hijackings, wiseguy police officers, and machinegun-toting Asian Youth Gangs. However, I would argue that the plot does its best to string the racing events together in a cohesive way while not turning into a "night and day" kind of movie in which you have a very distinct rift between the "race scenes" and the "dialogue scenes." I compared this movie to another race movie called "Driven" (which was horrible). "The Fast and the Furious" did an outstanding job when compared to "Driven" in keeping the momentum throughout its dialogue sequences. The transitions are seamless, and the dialogue and direction are quick and to the point.
Where this movie excels is in the handling of the race sequences. The choreography of the auto races or the semi-truck hijackings are unlike anything we have seen. To show these types of images with real street-legal cars is something that captures the imagination of many young Americans. Each "race sequence" is unique from the others, either because of the cars, the setting, time of day, or the adversity facing the protagonists (shotgun-weilding semi-truck driver, freight train on a collision-course, or the aforementioned machinegun-toting Asian Youth Gang).
I believe this movie has been so popular because of the themes that emerge from the periphery of the storyline. The story and action convey a sense of family, competition, hard work, and equality between the sexes. The racing teams represented in the movie allow their members to cross barriers of race and sex, exposing close-knit groups which help each other excel in the competitive world of drag racing. Through hard work and the support of one's teammates, any youth in America could build his or her own dream machine and race against the best in the city.
The DVD has excellent visual and audio qualities, and the DVD "extras" are outstanding. The "making of..." and director commentary sections are strong and insightful. In the deleted scenes section, the viewer will find a great scene in which Dom, Brian, and the other men of the "team" are outside the garage drinking beer and telling the stories of how they became racers and how one's life changes after becoming addicted to the adrenaline-powered life of a racer. Why this scene was cut from the movie is inexplicable.
"The Fast and the Furious" will entertain you many times over if you keep an open mind and look past some of the less believable elements. It may not impress you with an Oscar-worthy performance or storyline, but for those who accept its limitations and enjoy its successes, it is an entertaining movie you will watch again and again.