Here's my simple review:
I've been working out hard with weights and my elliptical for over 3 months now, once a week I woud try to run 2 miles outdoors (try, because it's the middle of winter).  I'm not new to fitness, it just hasn't been a focus in my life and now I want it to be again.  I needed something different to mix my workout up a bit, my friend at work turned me on to Insanity.
I've completed the first week of the program and I have to say, its tough - it reminds me of high school basketball practice.  I'm not a trainer or an expert so take my review with a grain of salt and understand that this is what has worked for me (6' 3" male, 225+ lbs, upper 30's) and with my condition (UC, J-Pouch and no large intestine).
There is a lot of lateral movement involved and if you have ankle, knee, or foot problems you might have issues and do what others have done and modified some of the exercises (I don't know how exactly).
The workout routine:
1. Lateral movement - side to side motion, with very explosive and quick movements; think of suicides on the basketball court.
2. Explosive power moves such as jumping and modified burpees, pushups, and jumping jacks.
3. Compound exercises, where exercises are combined intelligently to maximize the interval.
4. Emphasis on core strength.
5. 2 - 4 week Phases with a 1 week transition routine for 7 weeks.
6. You can do the program in your living room, no weights or equipment needed - but you might want a yoga mat or some foam mats.

My initial observations:
1. The Fit Test kicked my butt, as well as the "warm up" that begins every routine.
2. It's not quite total body, but it's very very close.  Very leg and shoulder heavy.
3. The stretches did very little for me, my quads were tight during a lot of the work out and it seemed like I did a lot of hamstring and groin stretches with the program.  So I added additional stretches, at the end of the day's routine.
4. I've been supplementing some of the routines with some bicep curls with the EZ Curl bar and some time on my elliptical.

Some recommendations:
1. I needed some supportive shoes!  Since there's a lot of lateral movement, you might have to buy some shoes that will offer you some support for your ankles, like I did.  Everyone's different, but I tried my running shoes (no lateral support), then my basketball shoes (too restrictive), and then I bought some cross trainers that worked (best of both worlds).
2. Make sure you have some cushioning, especially if you're a bigger person.  There is a lot of jumping, so the combination of the foam floor mats and my cross trainers have worked out for me.
3. Don't be discouraged if you can't finish or keep up.  Some of the folks in the video are dogging it, but pushing as well as they can.  You'll also notice that they are taking breaks when they need to, Shaun T will remind you to do the same (I took a lot of breaks, but jumped back in for more). Shaun T also takes breaks, when he goes around the gym to check form - he's really taking a breather.
4. Heart Rate Monitor - something I'm going to grab, I've been using the one that came with my elliptical.
5. I'm drinking protein shakes as a post workout supplement and eating bananas for potassium, as part of my diet; I've cramped up a little the day after.
6. I've been drinking a lot of water - before, during and after the work out.
7. I've been soaking up sweat with my hand towel.

The workout is insane, but I'm going to continue to tough it out.
I'll try to remember to update this review with any of my results as time goes on.
Good luck with whatever you choose.

UPDATE:  I've lost 25-30 lbs doing INSANITY, who knows maybe more - I'm wearing my skinny clothes from 7 years ago!  My clothes are baggy and my suits need tailoring.
I'm burning almost 1,000 calories doing Phase 1 routines in the Summer heat of my garage and 1600 Calories doing the Phase 2 routines in the same heat (about 80-87 degrees).  The Phase 2 workouts have caused some ankle swelling due to the movements of the exercises (e.g. doing modified burpees and push ups), but I have a pre-existing condition with bone spurs in both ankles.  I did have some knee pain as well, probably from overuse - like runners knee.  I've now modified my workouts so it's every other day with some weight training and grass mowing in between.  I'm planning on doing the Asylum this winter.  INSANITY is the real deal.