I remember when I first heard Kevin Smith was making a "Clerks 2" I doubted he would be able to pull it off. Then I saw the movie poster..."So, it's in color," I thought. Still, it had the same two original actors in it, and I liked those characters, so because I enjoyed the first movie, I wanted to see what Smith had in store for them in second. My expectations grew slightly after I found out Joel Siegel had walked out of the movie. My friend and I wondered, "Did he see the first one."

From what little knowledge I have of the movie industry, it's rare that a sequel is made to a production 10 years after the fact. So, my friend and I (who had went to see the first one together in a dingy $1 theater that stunk and had sticky, soda floors) decided to cough up the dough to see it opening weekend. We do both have full-time jobs now, after all. However, the slacker element remains very much alive in that we went to the matinee. The venue was important. The old $1 theater we had seen the first one at closed about 6 years ago, so we decided to venture to the city where we went to college and see it at a the same theater where we saw The Usual Suspects and Pulp Fiction. But, again as slackers, we were about 5 minutes late and didn't want to miss the beginning. So we checked the newspaper and found a showtime at a newly construction cinemas across town. There was an hour or so to kill, so we swung by the convenience store, grabbed a couple of cans of the black, and downed them in the parking lot of an apartment complex talking about old times. Also smoked a cigar before the movie in celebration, choosing to smoke it before rather than afterward because of our fear we wouldn't be as cheerful when we left. We'd watched the first film the night before to refresh our memory, so Kevin Smith was sure to have a hard time pleasing us we were sure. After all, when the first one was made, Smith hadn't gained his notoriety, at least not nationally. Now, he was at least moderately wealthy if not rich, how could he relate to the slackers of the universe?

As it turned out, we needn't have worried. The movie was just as uncouth, if not more so, than the first. What it did show me is how much Smith has matured ... maybe not so much as a writer, but as a director. For those of you who notice that type of thing, the direction of this film is far, far better than the first. Unexpectedly, it also had a touching moment from Randal toward the end that I think is the film's best moment. Smith handled the black-and-white/color dilemma masterfully, but I'm not going to reveal how in case you haven't seen it yet.

In short, if you like Smith's stuff, check this out. If you don't, don't.