Hi, everyone.  This is my first Amazon.com movie review, so let me tell you a bit about my background as a movie fan so you will appreciate my point of view.  Please bear with me.

I love great movies that successfully tell great stories.  I believe a good movie can be entertaining or absorbing (where you are drawn into the movie) or both.  I don't see any other way for a movie to be enjoyable.

Here are some of my favorite movies to give you an idea of what I consider a successful movie: The Adventures of Robin Hood, Gone With The Wind, The Wizard of Oz, Random Harvest (The Ultimate Romance Movie), Lost Horizon, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, The Court Jester, Monty Python and The Holy Grail, My Fair Lady, Ben-Hur, The Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, The Star Wars Trilogy, The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, I Am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang, The Ten Commandments, The Princess Bride, A Night at the Opera, The Grapes of Wrath, Of Mice and Men, Shane, Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, The Prestige, Superman I and II (Christopher Reeve).

I honestly believe for the most part Hollywood has lost the art of successfully telling a story through the motion picture medium.  The best example for my argument is Where the Wild Things Are.  My wife and I don't always agree on movies, but we agreed 100% that this was a terrible movie; we fast forwarded to the end after painfully sitting through the first third of this movie (we could not find a scene selection option on this DVD!!).

This movie told the story of a monster child who not only embarrasses his mother in front of her date while dressed up in a full body cat costume, but goes on to bite her in anger!  He then rows to this island of weird, ugly and bizarre creatures where he makes himself king by lying after watching one of the creatures destroy the homes in the village and then joining in.  What a horrible role model and completely unlikeable and unsympathetic main character.  The rest of the first third of the movie that we saw was spent on silly and uninteresting antics and the planning of a great village.  And the ending was just as unsatisfying.

I have seldom been so bored in my life; and the movie was certainly not absorbing.  It was also tedious and painful to watch.  This movie is not fit for children and adults alike.

I truly cannot comprehend anyone remotely calling this movie a good or a decent movie.  Yes, people are entitled to their opinions, but if you tell me that Angelina Jolie is ugly, I will find your opinion worthless.

This is perhaps the worst movie that my wife and I have ever seen.  The millions of dollars wasted to make this movie should have been given to the hungry poor instead.

Thank goodness all this movie cost us to watch was a Netflix rental.  Do yourself a favor and do not buy this movie.

Thank you for reading my first Amazon.com review.

Jason Wood