Light, shallow entertainment may certainly be what some people enjoy - and there's definitely nothing wrong with that! This movie is exactly one that fits the description - it's light and shallow, but nevertheless great entertainment. To those that prefer to stick to the limits of the realistic world, the plot will appear unconvincing and far from realistic.

But for me, the first 20 minutes or so of most films will usually serve as a strong indication as to whether they are made for pure entertainment, or whether they convey a lot of hidden messages and a much deeper level. Having been convinced quite early on that the film was clearly one that was made for pure entertainment, I was free to sit back and enjoy it during my first viewing - and in truth it was more entertaining that way. But then right at the end, I was somewhat mistaken - there was afterall, a couple of things to take away from the film - most of which Kate Bosworth blurts out in two scenes towards the end.

I don't think that a review should act as a spoiler - though I trust that most people will have probably have watched the 6 year-old film before anyway. Plot was something along the lines of: Rosie, a Piggy Wiggly employee in West Virginia, wins a date with Hollywood star Tad Hamilton, then all of a sudden, Tad actually feels that he wants to be with her. Hence the nightmare starts for Rosie's best friend Pete, who as the typical nice guy is a little too shy to express his true emotions towards Rosie.

I wasn't overly impressed with the plot, there were short falls everywhere - in fact even Topher Grace admitted in an interview that he wasn't so sure why Pete hadn't asked Rosalee out in those 22 years. And the whole string of unfortunately... fortunately... unfortunately... fortunately... towards the end of the film was (despite being creative in some respects) a little tiring (though not to the extent that I was constantly asking myself how long a piece of string was), though it was somewhat fulfilling to see that the final lap was a "fortunately...".

The acting and unconventionally hilarious moments, however, compensated for the flawed plotline. Yes, Josh Duhamel was a bit too corny; but honestly the lead roles was done to almost perfection. Kate Bosworth, (well, everyone knows how wonderful she is anyway) was perfect for the innocent yet sensitive young woman she portrayed. But Topher Grace, really just stole the show with his incredible acting talent. (I guess if I was even 0.000000...000000001% as charming as he was, I probably wouldn't be single at this present moment in time). But honestly, he was just perfect for his role. Supporting characters were generally good, Angelica the bar-tender cracked me up, and Cathy was a little too articulate. Oh and Pete's dog was pretty awesome too.

So a conclusion to this dull and boring review? It's definitely not the boring romantic comedy that is 100% predictable and completely superficial. But don't get your hopes up way too high - it's a nice "treasure" that you can enjoy once you sit back and forget about all the limits of our real world. Oh and it is very clearly a PG-13, so only watch it if you're certain that the kids aren't around, to avoid some really awkward explanations.