There are great episodes in Season Five such as the classic Nightmare at 20,000 Feet; The Masks; Living Doll; Last Night of the Jockey (featuring Mickey Rooney who provides a wonderful character study of a pathetic yet defiant loser with a literally out-sized view of himself); Night Call; An Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge and A Stopover in a Quiet Town. Then there were some genuine surprises including entries during the so-called dead zone of the last 10-15 episodes. I was struck by how good and though-provoking The Encounter was. I cannot imagine it not stirring up some controversy when it was first released. Neither character is a hero or villain. Both are deeply conflicted in a way that feeds into the dark, tragic ending of this underrated masterpiece with two wonderful performances by George Takei and Neville Brand. I expected The Jeopardy Room to be a throwaway but it was anything but that . . .feeling like a pilot episode of one of CBS's next great classics - Mission Impossible, both in its feel and intensity. I found that the topics of race; hatred and the mob mentality were intelligently explored in I am the Night: Color Me Black. Even the ones that felt like variations on themes that were previously touched upon in TZ were well-acted and executed - Uncle Simon; Queen of the Nile; A Kind of Stopwatch; Caesar and Me; The Fear and The Brain Center at Whipples- albeit with an occasional line or two in the dialogue or plot that could have been been rendered more imaginatively. There are a few dogs including boring and aimless Come Wander with Me; The 7th is Made of Phantoms which simply approached its intriguing premise all wrong from the get go (despite the presence of such lumineries as Warren Oates and Greg Morris) and the insufferable Sounds and Silences which wasted John McGiver's talents on an script that manages to be far more overbearing than its odious central character.  But even the misses such as the Old Man and the Cave; Uncle Simon and Probe 7, Over and Out have been far more watchable than I expected. I have got about 11 more to go in the Season and will no doubt be sad to see The Twilight Zone come to an end. Oh well, there is always Lost and Fringe to be explored.