I found this move fun to watch.  There are a few errors which I seem to get caught on as soon as I see them.  For one the actress that plays Jane Fairfax is crossing her legs at almost every opportunity.  Crossing your legs was considered vulgar and not at all ladylike.  She also lays back in whatever seat she is in.  She should have copied Gwyneth's example and sat errect. It was part of a young lady's training to always sit erect and ankles crossed with hands in your lap. This was an era where extreme manners and politeness were a part of your life, you could get cut in society if your manners were not the best.  It was more strict for unmarried ladies who always wanted to portray themselves in the best light always in order to maintain their social standing and catch a husband.  The Mrs. Weston, a former governess should have known better, but she also slouched throughout the movie.  I find myself also struck by the pasty look of Gwyneth's eyebrows.  They seem very painted in a way and most unnatural.  Gwyneth's performance was very good.  I cannot criticize her accent or acting, if only I could get over looking at her as Gwyneth!  My favorite characters in the whole movie are Miss Bates and Mrs. Bates.  They totally crack me up!  She is so totally believeable and you totally sympathize with her when Jane lashes out at her at the picnic.  I disagree with another's criticism of her saying she kept her voice too loud throughout the movie because if you lived with someone 24/7 who had very bad hearing, I can see where you would be used to speaking loudly. Which I don't find her doing at all. I found Jane's father a bit too robust to be a sickly gentleman.  The BBC version of Jane's father is perfect!  Once you watch that one, it's hard to see this version's father in that light.  Mrs. Elton steals the whole movie!  Her acting and character just push everyone else out of the way when she comes on scene.  Once I put all those things aside, I enjoyed watching the beautiful scenery and lovely dresses and hair that Emma wore.  Would I buy this movie again??  Yes, and since I have watched it 5 times already having only owned it a month or so, then I guess that means that I enjoy it quite a bit.  I am pretty sure you will too!