It seems this film's reputation may be suffering from incorrect genre identification. This is an ACTION drama with a futuristic twist. John Woo says the original story was SciFi, but he took "80% of that out" so he could make a more believable movie. (Perhaps it would've received kinder reviews if he'd left more in.) The characters ARE developed well enough to create interest & empathy. Perhaps not successful as SciFi, "Paycheck" is a decent action flick.

The actors all do an excellent job of staying real & interesting, but nobody goes over the top. Woo intentionally spreads the focus among the ensemble rather than making another Star-Driven vehicle. Oh, there are stars, and the villains do get edgy for sure; but there are no scene-stealing overacted performances. That's just fine - some of us just do not need to be visually assaulted by acting style in order to enjoy a performance. Ben Affleck continues in his understated 'regular guy' mode. Uma Thurman, fresh from her 'Kill Bill' gig, looks smart & tough, and that's exactly how she acts. If anybody in this cast does a very polished job with the action itself, it's her - BUT it's very believable & in character. She just may have become THE leading lady for sincere & skilled action. The supporting cast is excellent, the action is generally slugfest 'NFL' style instead of 'martial arts masters', and the principals do most of their own stunts.

The premise is handled in a believable way (much better than the typical time-travel stories which unravel) with well done tech-FX. Chases, explosions & other stunts abound, but don't overpower the story. The action is REAL live action, mercifully not blue-screen CGI overdone to death. (OK, there are 1 too many "mexican standoffs.")

The characters actually develop & portray relationships that don't require a lot of screaming, cursing & nudity to convey. Wow. Some of us LIKE that. John Woo did it that way on purpose, with homage/respect (= PROPS) to great films & directors who created memorable classics that way. It even bears repeated viewings. Hmm, wish there was a genre for THAT.