So I am a huge fan of this show, I have multiple recordings and for years loved watching the 10th Anniversary Dream Cast concert. I was so excited when I saw this was coming on Blu Ray and I bought it without even watching any previews or reading any reviews of the actual London concert.

Is it a good concert? Yes. The staging is impressive and the Blu Ray treatment gives you flawless video and audio quality. The performances are good but nothing like the stellar performances of the Dream Cast.

There are a few notable exceptions, I will keep this disc and treasure it for Lea Salongas performance as Fantine. Her pristine voice and great acting ability knock her performances out of the park. A great treat to see her 15 years after the Dream Cast going from Eponine to Fantine . And speaking of the Eponine, Samantha Barks did an amazing job in that role. She was completely unknown to me before this and had huge shoes to fill in my mind and to my shock and immense pleasure she did just that. The last note in On My Own had me standing up and cheering. I won't say she is better than Lea Salonga in that role but she absolutely holds her own.

Nick Jonas is a complete distraction in this show. His Marius has none of the depth that previous performers have given that role. His singing skills are not up to par with the material. Being fair though he did do a DECENT job on Empty Chairs at Empty Tables, but it no way has the impact that the song normally has on me. He brings down many of rousing anthems and really keeps them from reaching the soaring heights they normally would like. One Day More is the song most affected by his lackluster performance but Red and Black and Do You Hear The People Sing are equally watered down.

There is a saving grace on this disc and that is the finale after the show ends. They bring back the original 1985 cast for One Day More and it had me leaping out of my seat. Also the original Valjean sing Bring Him Home with his contemporary was quite stirring. Having Michael Ball on the stage reprising his role as Marius reminded me how it should have been.

There are some things on this disc that are magical and worth owning but as a whole it was flawed in my opinion.

So the end result is this, I will be keeping the blu ray for Lea Salonga and Samantha Banks performances however I will also be ordering the 10th Anniversary DVD which has finally been re-released after being out of print for many years.

My wish as I said in the title of this review is that the 10th Anniversary Concert got the blu ray treatment.