...perhaps the most unfairly maligned horror film this year, "The Unborn".

The synopsis is simple: young woman finds out she is being haunted by the ghost of her unborn twin brother, who is possessed by a "Dybuk", a demon from Jewish lore.

Yes, the film does borrow scenes from other movies, like a take on the creepy spider-walking old lady from "The Exorcist 3", the old monster in the mirror gimmick, and the almost subliminal quick shots of demonic faces as used by William Friedkin in the original "Exorcist".

And it shows us some rather bizarre images of dogs with masks/deformed heads; I recall an installment of the "Nightmare on Elm Street" series had imagery like this (maybe the end of Part 2?), as well as an unsettling scene in the remake of "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" from the `70s. But, it was interesting to learn in "The Unborn" that this weird imagery is actually part of Jewish mysticism, so one could argue that the other movies ripped off their imagery from preexisting religious symbolism.

And yes, I'll admit, some of the most appealing images in "The Unborn" are that of Odette Yustman. The camera (and seemingly the film-makers) adore this beautiful woman, and even though much was made of the "exploitation" of her physical appearance in the film (the moral brigade really needs to get a life), she does help make the film a memorable experience.

Odette starred in last year's "Cloverfield", this year's "The Unborn", and recently signed on for a remake of an obscure UK horror film entitled "And Soon the Darkness".

With this kind of track record she is well along her way as a "scream queen", and she does have several scenes in "The Unborn" where she has the opportunity to live up to the title - even when she can't scream; in one scene Odette is bound to a gurney and gagged, but she still manages to emote terror quite well even while restrained and with a huge gag holding open her jaws.

In case you think acting in a film of this nature is easy, think again. Odette Yustman does a commendable job in this movie.

If you're mature enough not to hate a movie because it's PG-13 (I can't wait until the new Raimi film comes out this year with a PG-13 rating and makes apologists out of the PG-13 haters), intelligent enough not to regard horror films as worthless and contemptible, and are open-minded enough, you'll find "The Unborn" is worth a look.