This charming film of intercultural trouble in 1997 Bradford, England, an old textile industrial town near Newcastle, is an artfully presented discussion of several points of view on "how to be a good man".

The story revolves around an immigrant Pakistani couple with one college-age son, all living from the father's taxi job income these 25 years.  His first five years in England were spent in a factory, hence his recruitment from abroad, and he explains this to his new special passenger, a German middle-aged sardonic man with money to spend and a big appetite for partying, drinking and women of the night.  We viewers see the regular night driving work of an older Pakistani, face mottled with old acne scars, married to a quiet and demure, traditionally dressed housewife.  He shows us rapidly that he is an easy-going man, who enjoys talkative passengers, and he likes to play tourguide and show off the decaying industrial town to them.  He likes jokes, picturesque turns of phrases from the old country (presumably?  "there's a wasp down your gullet" to his son when the son goes bezerk shouting in a fine restaurant.)

His wife is portrayed as slightly depressed, sullen, obsessed with her only child, confined to a typical rowhouse all day, and fed up with her husband, who she is convinced loves her no more and is beginning to have an affair with a local prostitute.  She is a sweet-looking woman, I'd say, a long-suffering type, and appears much younger than her rougher-looking but jollier husband.

Meanwhile, there's a son good-looking enough that he'd worked as a model, who is obsessed with his clothes and ironing them, who's academically good enough to be studying accountancy at university.  His parents live for him, that is clear to any older viewer, but the son is oblivious to his father's love.  The parents are very excited that he is engaged to a local English bank teller, the daughter of the police chief, and they're planning a big party for the announcement.  They apparently have no objection that the son marries outside the faith or his ethnic group, in fact, the father seems delighted whenever he talks of it to his passengers.

The father loves to hang out at home in the basement (as we Yanks would say, is it a cellar? well, down below, a storage area of the house) with his own phonograph and collection of early jazz, especially Louis Armstrong.  The lyrics of the songs permeate throughout the house, full of sexual innuendo of the 1920's and 1930's.  If the wife is disapproving of it, she only brings it up much later in the film, when she says it's too "trumpet-y".

This bit is to show us viewers that the father's an atheist, who's embraced Western culture and music, sexual freedom; and that he enjoys dealing with the johns and prostitutes who are often the night customers in Bradford.

He sees the good in everyone; generally, he is a very impressive and wise man who understands others' anger.

Well, that is how the film begins, and the plot moves quickly in:  the son becomes dissatisfied with himself, with "capitalism" (i.e. his studies in accountancy and consumerism generally), and above all, angry that his fiancee's parents cannot and will not accept him.  Then he uses this anger against all of England and Western people, to use radical ideas of Muslim (Pakistani brand) fundamentalism, to protest against the atheistic life around him.  The root of his conversion seems to be simple:  his love has been confounded by the girl's father, a story as old as Romeo and Juliet.

His new friends, and he himself, adopt traditional male Pakistani clothing and caps, shun women, even to the point that when they eat (on the floor, of course) of the living room, his mother becomes a servant bringing food, but cannot eat with them, only alone in the kitchen.  Since the father's often at work, he discovers this only later by coming upon it, and seeing that his wife has gone along with the son's "new" ideas.

This is a film that grips your attention, as each character has a role in the conflict between "East" and "West", including the very promiscuous German businessman who uses the father to arrange for prostitutes at his big party.  All are shown to be pawns in the culture, who do not seem to know that they're playing roles imposed on them.  The tensions between everyone mount very rapidly, ending in male violence against the vulnerable females, and the father is heartbroken by the collapse of his family.

His son moves out to be with his new "community", and the wife, feeling unloved altogether, packs up for Pakistan.  The father is left alone in his Bradford house, awaiting their individual returns, if they would realize not only their errors, but that he loves them.

The writer of the script is masterful in showing us that love, true love and caring, is the way to reunite people.  But it speaks to the much bigger issues ripping apart England today, 14 years after the film was made.  The Muslim presence grows, and the fundamentalism gets much stronger, and it's leading to more anti-social violence, to the point of blowing up trains.  The protagonists are young males who grew up in England, not their immigrant parents.  The parents are shown to be happy to be able to support a family, coming from dirtpoor origins.  Their hopes for their only child's success is far beyond that of a normal English family:  it become almost their raison d'etre for suffering through cold winters, low-level jobs, and general intolerance.

It's interesting that no young women are shown getting interested in religion; if anything, they're shown in the pubs and nightlife to be going quite the opposite way.  It's enraging the Pakistani-English young men, although they are not shown to be kind and useful to the community other than studying, discussing, pondering and waiting for females to pour them more tea.

"There's more than one way to be a good man", says the father to the son's backside.  "Remember that".

Sitting here in San Francisco, where I work in a similar job to this father, driving tourbuses with international tourists, I see that the men are often the most religious and righteous of my customers, from all faiths.  I wonder about this.  It is so much easier to see a splinter in the other (woman's) eye than the plank in one's own.  If men are taught that women are evil, because they are "tempting", then their whole view of the planet is distorted as a place of sin, temptation and evil, with the source of it all walking freely about, torturing them.  This is found in Judaism, Christianity and then later in the Muslim faith.  That the men themselves cannot see themselves as sources of evil is a very strange blindness indeed.

The father himself has long been in love with one of the prostitutes.  He's been giving her rides home for years, and they've grown fond of each other, in what appears to be a father-daughter way.  She is young and good-looking , he appears old and fairly ugly.  Yet when this long-term friendship begins to develop into something else later in the film, one of the lines that made me laugh is: "My wife is too ugly."  My (male) friend watching with me didn't know why I laughed.  It was obvious to any female:  his wife is fine, it is he who is ugly and he who reviles himself, who wishes that he were desirable to a woman.  That seems to be the essence of the Muslim fanatical view of women.  Isn't the son perverted with anger by female rejection?  Could it be that the mixing of Muslim men into Western culture is producing extreme frustration that they cannot "have" the Western women, whom they consider good-looking?