This is a real magical experience movie. A one of a kind experience! It is not just about dancing, but about personal growth and transformation through love. It is a love story most of all. In this high-energy movie, a young woman who looks rather homely helps the lead actor dance his own steps at the Grand Nationals. He wants to dance his own way and not follow the very tight rules of Ballroom dancing. Everyone thought he was crazy to dance his own steps, except this woman. When she approached him to offer her help at first he thought she was joking because he was a professional and she was merely a beginner. She told him he is afraid and that caught his attention. Her moto, and the moto of this film is: "A life lived in fear is a life half lived." It is a true metaphor for life and in breaking out of the mold setup for us by society and everyone else. With risk taking and following our hearts, we find something deeper and more beautiful then we ever imagined. She shows him some Latin movies he really likes and slowly they learned to dance their own way that was truly beautiful and much different then traditional Ballroom dancing. 
As they danced together, little by little, the woman transformed into a true beauty. Her believing in him and herself caused her to become more then what she was. There was so much pressure on this young man to succeed and follow the rules that he almost gave in, but her love changed everything. The walls came down at the Grand Nationals and they danced their way- a beautiful elegant, simple Latin dance that had the audience jumping out of their seats in awe. In the end everyone joined in and it was an amazing thing to see! I find this movie to be a very good psychological lesson of following your heart, to stop living in fear even though everyone and everything seems to be against what you know in your heart to be right for you. And by breaking the rules, amazing things can happen for not just you, but the whole society as well. A truly amazing movie with a beautiful message. A one of a kind rare film that will always be my personal favorite.