If anyone reading this was part of what turned out to become an international club kid scene, reliving the PAST is a kind of  disturbing LSD trip down nightmare lane. We have all grown up and left the clubs and drugs behind us. As fate would have it Michael is behind bars and for who knows how long? In my opinion Michael was once a GENIUS. Anyone who could create a never heard of before party atmosphere of surrealism the way he did should have gone on to achieve international stardom! All the party promoter's I have ever met were all extremly talented as well as drug crazed messes.  Part favors were a way of life back then. Like a lot of us club kids drugs slowly killed our ambitions and  our incentive........all we wanted was more drugs and nothing else really mattered anymore. Drug addiction leading to murder is not a big surprise to this queen and Michael was no different than any other addict who wants what he wants......when he wants it! It's one of those situations where you had to be in that position to understand what having that mindset is like. I admire Michael for his vast accomplishments in such a short time but I certainly do not condone murder for any reason. I found the shocumentary to be very anti-Michael but at times he seems like he is asking for it, even when he is 100% sober and being interviewed in prison. I loved some of the insane interviews with the outrageous people who claim to have once been Michael's friends. His mother was my favorite. That lady is to twisted for television. What I really feel the need to say is that James St. James is obviously taking advantage of Michael's misfortune purely for profit. Without Michael no one would know who the heck James St. James is (much less care!) For unsuspecting viewers to take HIS word about what really happened is like listening to Bush explain away the current weapons of mass destruction situation. It just does not add up. Saying what he thinks people want to hear is what James St. James is all about. One of the features of the DVD is listening to his comments about the shocumentary and he just sickened me. I actually became so enraged by his obviously blatant betrayal that I turned that feature off within 5 minutes. He acts like they were best friend but yet he rips him apart every chance he gets....and he is making money hand over fist by doing so! It's so obvious that Michael's misfortune is a one way ticket for his questionable 15 minutes of fame. If and when Michael is released from prison it will be a very interesting scenario if these two queens ever come face to face again. What I would really like to know is..... did James St. James lose his mind all at once or was it a gradual process? My advice to James would be to take some that dirty money he's making and buy some hair and have an acid peel. I recommend this DVD to give an education about a lifestyle that is history at this point. There is also a VHS about Michael from A&amp;E's Investigative Reports called "Michael Alig: DIsco, Drugs, and Murder" that is fairly interesting but no where near as good as this DVD. I haven't seen the Disneyfied version of Michael's story with Macaulay Culkin but I am sure it will be sooooooo bad that it will become an instant cult classic amongst the former club kids. This story is as disturbing as it is FABULOUS! Kind of like real life wouldn't you say? No happily ever afters in this FAIRY tale!