Filmed in Detroit and Toronto, this brilliant piece of work has some of the best acting ever captured on film. With verisimilitude and intricacy of plot, Narc fires on all cylinders: moral, emotional, and philosophical (epistemological and aesthetic). Yet I had never heard of it. Why? I would guess it has to do in part with its not being a Hollywood product. Narc did not receive oodles of money and its director and producers (although Tom Cruise co-produced after seeing how good the finished product was) did not make nice to all the people who must be made nice to to produce and distribute a film. Superficially, Narc is a genre film, a police thriller. And it also does not (again, superficially) obey the stereotypes of (what for want of a lack of a better term has come to be called) political correctness. For example, the Ray Liotta character (absolutely brilliantly rendered), a veteran undercover police offer, at one point decries to his superiors (one of whom is black) that they are all too happy to pin the murder of a police officer on a wimpy pusher (who also happens to have the deceased's badge) because it is politically palatable. So, too, in another scene (the film's funniest) a Latino without pants (his wife gave him VD), who has just used his last match to set his wife's hair on fire, requests a light to do a hit of crack. Busta Rhymes plays a bad guy-again, superficially. The whole problem with this movie, from the Hollywood standpoint, is that it fails to be sufficiently superficial. Considering all the money available to make movies, making a good movie in Hollywood is not that difficult. But making a work of art appears to be impossible. Narc is a work of art. Lucky to get a couple of stars, and threatened with financial extinction early in its production, Narc delves into depths of moral complexity unavailable to films that poll audiences to find out what they would most like. ("Entertain us," in the words of Kurt Cobain.) The business model for normal film making appears to be based on corporate (un)accountability: try to make something that sells but, if it doesn't, make sure no single person can be held personally responsible for its failure. This recipe leads to some above-average films, mild entertainment, and far too many cinematic atrocities (especially when you consider the money spent making them).  But too many cooks generally spoil the pot. Narc doesn't have too many cooks. It simply cooks. I loved this film not only because it is a kind of French Connection for the 00's, but also because it shows that, after all is said and done, a little true art is worth more than a truckload of money and spectacle.