on the surface, Astronaut Farmer appears to be ordinary wholesome family fare (though rated PG, not G, because of one gory scene).  yet, scoop away the corn pone, and it is as subversive a movie as i have seen in the past 30 or more years.

imagine an American-made film depicting an intact nuclear family in which the white male father is neither molesting his children, nor physically or emotionally abusing his wife, nor a drunk, addict, philanderer, or even a compulsive gambler.  (alright, at one point he is diagnosed as clinically insane, but let's not quibble.)  as if that were not implausible enough, he's a southerner -- indeed, a *Texan!*  (had he been, say, a working class Italian American with no connection, of any sort, to the Mob, it would have pushed the envelope of credulity beyond the tearing point.)

the first question one might ask would be:  how could such a project ever get financed in the first place?  aside from a nutcase such as Mel Gibson, who would risk capital on such an implausible premise?  as it turns out, this indie project is, in part, a vehicle for two child actors, Jasper and Logan Polish, who are daughters of this film's writers, producers, directors Mark and Michael Polish (additionally, Mark plays an FBI agent on screen).  i guess there's nothing like putting your own daughters in your film to motivate an 'unorthodox' perspective on fatherhood.

perhaps what made this otherwise impossible premise acceptable by Hollywood PC standards were two (otherwise completely gratuitous) auto-de-fe's by the father (Billy Bob Thornton, who is actually from Arkansas, not Texas -- but let's not get carried away).  in the first, he speechifies to a committee of officious Washington bureaucrats who wickedly want to stop a private citizen from launching a manned Atlas rocket from his backyard, words to the effect, ~if another country tried to land men on the moon, the US would probably declare war on them~.  (the last i read, Japan and China have such ambitions; but, so far, there are no plans for war with either country on Dick Cheney's desk.  [come to think of it, cross your fingers.])

in the other genuflection to the Hollywood Left, Thornton, responding to a rumor that violent force will be used by the US government to prevent his launch, says something like, ~they're pretty good at killing people with dreams.~  (conspiracy theories, anyone?)

the ever-radiant Virginia Madsen (why hasn't her career been at least as big as, for example, Jessica Lange's?) plays Thornton's wife, who stands by her man.  Bruce Dern is, as always, convincing -- in his role as Madsen's father.

bring the kids.  if none are handy, bring the kid inside yourself.