MOVIE REVIEW #38: " Rock of Ages "

The first thing I want to say is that this film is about the Music of the 80's! - Having been a young `whipper-snapper' at the time - what surprised me most about this film - was that it was FUNNY!. Laugh out loud funny. That alone, seems to take the entire audience I was with by surprise. So-much-so, that they applauded and laughed throughout the film out loud. Like me!

Hearing these songs done by Tom Cruise (Mission Impossible, Top Gun) singing Bon Jovi's classic "Wanted Dead or Alive," (YES TOM SINGS AND VERY WELL TOO!) to Def Leppard's hit "Pour Some Sugar On Me," and Guns `N Roses anthem "Paradise City." Along with Cruise then doing duets with Malin Akerman (The Proposal, Watchmen) on Foreigner's power ballad, "I Want To Know What Love Is," and shares the mic with Julianne Hough (Footloose-2011, Burlesque) on The Scorpions' "Rock You Like A Hurricane." ...was a cinematic shock to me. As well as a hysterically performed, yet really heartfelt delivery, duet of my fav REO Speedwagon song  "I Can't Fight This Feeling" between charismatic Alec Baldwin (30 Rock, Beetlejuice) and  an off-the-wall Russell Brand (Arthur, Get Him To The Greek). (SPOILER: Yes, the song title tells it all!)

Based on the Broadway play - which premiered at the King King club in Hollywood, CA in 2005 transferred to the Vanguard theatre in Los Angeles, CA and finally went to the Broadway stage in 2009 - It was written by Justin Theroux (Iron Man 2, Tropic Thunder), Chris DArienzo (Hot, Barry Monday) and Allan Loeb (21, Just Go With It)  it tells the story of small town girl from Ohio,  Sherrie - played electrically and brilliantly by Julianne Hough and the L.A. city boy Drew, again played brilliantly by Diego Bonita (Mean Girls 2, 90210) who meet on the Sunset Strip while pursuing their Hollywood dreams. Their rock 'n' roll romance is told through other heart-pounding hits of Def Leppard, Joan Jett, Journey,  Night Ranger, Pat Benatar, Steve Perry, Twisted Sister, Poison and Whitesnake .

Director Adam Shankman (Hairspray, Bedtime Stories) did his best to make you tap your feet, sing along and - again - make you laugh out loud. He threaded the simple story using the dynamics of the performances and the clever `mashed' songs of the 80's. He definatle got the looks and hair styles of the time and even slams the popular `boy bands' of the time. Hysterically! From scene #1 - It's got dance, choreography and bright colors...even an adjusted LA Skyline for the times!

Tom Cruise, as Stacee Jaxx, gives another amazingly eclectic, strange, exotic (and sometime erotically suggestive) and funny performance. And I never knew he could sing. Amazing voice - yes it is him - and great musical `chops' to carry the film. Bravo Tom!

Another stand-out performance was Cathrine Zeta-Jone (Chicago, The Terminal) as the religious wife of the Mayor of Los Angeles on vengeful (and personal) vendetta again Tom Cruise character the rock star himself, Stacee Jaxx! She is spicy, passionate with dance and funny and boy she can sing her version of Pat Benatar's most popular hit "Hit Me With Your Best Shot". Bravisimo Cathrine!

Also some other standout performances came from Paul Giamatti (Sideways, Saving Private Ryan) as the crummy musical agent, singer-songwriter Mary J Blige (Entourage, Ghost Whisperer) as the club manager who takes Sherrie under her wing and Malin Ackerman (The Hearbreak Kid, Catch .44) as the confused Rolling Stone Magazine Reporter. Included are hidden cameos of REO Speedwagon's Kevin Cronin and Debbie Gibson themselves!

My only concern is that if you were not familiar with these great songs of the 80's...will the newer generations of audiences get it? I hope so. I'm sure they will get the humor, but like me, will they be singing along out loud with the rest of the crowd - like first screenings audience I saw it with who remembers the time - way back when `Music Had Messages'?  (Kinda' of like my experience at the theatre with the film version of Mamma Mia...you couldn't help but sing along - out loud to the hits of ABBA!) This was a fun and - most importantly - funnier than I ever expected! Another good fun family (PG-13 for provocativeness)  film that tells its entire simple story - through its music! GO see it!