This is the story of a marraige, Matt Dillion and Kate Hudson.  And of course, the fly in the ointment, the husbands Childhood best friend Dupree played by Owen Wilson.  First off let me say that Kate Hudson finally seems able to project a good deal of the likability that her mother, Goldie Hawn, has in spades, and even though she had a supporting role in this movie she was the most enjoyable part.

Matt and Kate's characters get married in Hawaii, Matt's best friend Owen Wilson is late because he somehow managed to fly to the wrong island.  This sets him of to be the loveable buffoon.  Michael Douglas, looking strangly smooth skinned gives a castrating speech about his daughters new husband at the wedding.

They go home, move into a beautiful house and then Matt finds out that Dupree was fired from his job for going to his wedding....because Dupree didn't bother to tell his boss he was going.  MAtt, for some weird reason feels guilty, lets him move in.  Now this is where movies really lose me, this is supposedly his BEST friend, yet he comes in, changes their answering machine, orders HBO on their cable, messes up the house etc... and nothing is said to him.  Nobody would have trouble telling their best friend that they are behaving like an idiot.

On to the father.  The father doesn't like the fact that his daughter has gotten married, he asks MAtt Dillions Character if he would take his wifes name, Since he owns the company, the then has the nameplate on Matt's door CHANGED to reflect his wife's last name, and then asks him to get a vasectomy.  Matt's character tells his wife he doesn't think her father likes him.  When she asks "Why?" he hems and haws and says "He has never asked me to go fishing with him"  That was it, the movie totallylost me, in that situation most men would either stay quiet or tell their wives what is going on.  If you bring up to your wife that you are having trouble with her father, who is your boss, why would you FORGET to tell her that the reason you feel this way is that the guy asked you to get a vasectomy?  The wife then, rightly so, thinks her husband is being somewhat of an idiot because in her opinion, he is having problems with her father because her dad has never invited the guy fishing.  Additionally, the father keeps making him stay late at work and she is getting mad at him for missing dinner, yet he never tells her that the father is the one responsible.  I HATE when movies create conflict where none exists.  This movie was like a bad episode of Three's Company.  All sorts of conflict that wouldn't exist if ONE PERSON had just opened their mouths.  This film is more likely to annoy you than entertain you.