There's not too much point in my writing a review of this movie, since everyone already knows it's great.  But perhaps I have a slightly different slant on it, because I hate - and I mean, I absolutely HATE - musicals.  I  would have walked out of the Academy Award-winning "Oliver" if I  hadn't promised my wife I'd sit through the entire thing.
Probably my  primary reason for hating musicals is that the music is always so out of  character with the scenes and characterizations.  If a movie is good, then  the viewer experiences a temporary suspension of reality, in which he  projects himself into the world of the movie, with all of its characters  and moods.  The effect of most songs in a musical is to jar that mood away  and to destroy that illusion.  For example, in "Oliver" a bunch  of street urchins in Victorian England suddenly stop what they're doing and  start dancing up and down the street singing, "Consider Yourself At  Home".  The scene is ridiculous on its face, and the viewer can never  take those street urchins seriously again.  For me this one difficulty  destroys any chance I have of liking or even respecting almost any  musical.
But "West Side Story" is a shining and spectacular  exception to the rule.  Not only is the story a beautiful one (after all,  you can't improve on Shakespeare), not only are the actors and actresses  uniformly superb, but the music is so well integrated into the plot and the  characterizations that it almost never becomes the jarring influence that  it is in so many other films.  When Tony sings "I've just met a girl  named Maria", when Maria sings, "I Feel Pretty", when all of  the groups of characters sing "Tonight, Tonight" in anticipation  of the fateful evening - all of these are circumstances in which a real  person would FEEL like singing.  Instead of stopping the action dead in its  tracks, the songs move things forward.  Instead of rendering the  personalities of the characters less believable, these songs reinforce the  characterizations.
Even as stand-alone pieces of music, the  Bernstein-Sondheim score puts its competitors to shame.  Has any song ever  packed more social commentary into a believable and entertaining production  piece than "Officer Krupke"?  Has there ever been a better  wedding song than "One Hand, One Heart"?  What song has ever  expressed more effectively and fervently the desire of two lovers for a  better world and a better life than "There's A Place For Us"?
I  hate to use a cliche, but:  It doesn't get any better than this.