To avoid redundancy, I will not provide a comprehensive analysis of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0010AN7Z4">The Apartment (Collector's Edition)</a>. A great many reviewers here on Amazon.com already have written such excellent critiques of Billy Wilder's entertaining farce.  My two cents, then, mostly will deal with the movie's portrayal of working women and its exploration of their inner lives.

The Apartment was released in 1960, and in nearly half a century some things remain the same when it comes to matters of the heart.  Well, when the four chambers belong to the female of the species, that is.  Although we chicks have made head-turning advancements in the workplace, now and then smashing through the glass ceiling like the underpaid stuntwomen that we are, some broads (present company excepted) still fall for the tricky quick steps of boardroom merengue.  Instead of acting as if they have two left feet, these sisters should be kneeing the bossman's twins and asking for a raise while he hits the highest note in his career.  Forty-nine years after The Apartment: same dance, same aria.

Thus, every time I watch the scenes of awkward intimacy between Shirley MacLaine's Miss Kubelik and Fred MacMurray's Mr. Sheldrake, I get onion eyes.  And every time I listen to Edie Adams warn MacLaine -- secretary to elevator operator -- about those "ringydingdings," I get a lump in my throat as wide as a boulder blocking love's highway.  Now, I have watched The Apartment more than 15 times since my first viewing on cable's TCM channel and subsequently on video, so those are a lot of lumps.  But then something wonderful happens:  Lovable, lonely loser C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon in impeccable form) lightens the mood with a spasmodic facial mannerism, piercing the air with his trademark cackle curtailed by his own hyperstressed pronouncements.  Only then can I swallow, breathe and chuckle the hurt away.

Such is the power of great acting and masterful direction, anchored by a superb script.  Through Wilder's film lens, viewers get to study the contours of hearts that have been broken, barely mended, only to be fissured again.  However, considering all of the impersonal technology in homes and offices today, who's to say that the alienation as personified by Fran Kubelik's and C.C. Baxter's circumstances is more profound?  Suited saber-toothed tigers in fedoras carrying little black books have evolved into savvy Bluetoothed cybercats with mobile phones that have roaming charges and unlimited space for all those "purrsonal" contacts.

Just as anti-corporate cynicism has endured into the 21st century, so has The Apartment -- easily one of Billy Wilder's finest satires.  The movie should be required viewing at hedonistic office parties to remind everyone, especially the male of the species, about the tragic consequences of shredding business ethics for the purpose of getting down to business on a desktop or in a restroom stall.  Or, could it be that the working stiff's lustful goals have turned so absurd that an accidentally flushed BlackBerry is considered more serious than a few *lodged* staples and paper clips?  Oh my.

Sexual pathos aside, the comedy of C.C. Baxter's apartment situation is first-rate.  He's a lucky so-and-so to pay less than market rate (even for 1960!) for his immense square footage.  Nevertheless, he has what we urbanites today call a revolving-door apartment.  Only, he's the one who keeps leaving!  As attached as I am to my apartment, I sense his misery each time he's forced to walk those posh Upper West Side streets.  Poor old bast--er, Baxter.  Well, that's how the luck turns, keywise.  (That's an inside joke; only viewers of The Apartment would get it.)  Yet another wild circumstance that this dark comedy-drama presents for viewers' critique and voyeuristic pleasure.

Speaking of pleasure, the adulterous fantasies played out in the film are darkly Wilder.  Back in 1960, I wasn't yet a gleam in my father's eye.  Come to think of it, with all the illicit fun folks seemed to be having back in the 1960s, perhaps I wasn't meant to be a gleam in my mother's eye, either.

I couldn't more strongly recommend that you purchase <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0010AN7Z4">The Apartment (Collector's Edition)</a>.  After you have, please sit back and let Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond's story unreel in black-and-white before your eyes.  You'll see why The Apartment earned five Academy Awards including Best Director, Best Original Screenplay and Best Picture.