Criterion has put out two fine films from the 1950s that pay homage to the Greek story of love and death they are named after, both by french directors: 'Black Orpheus', by Marcel Camus (1959) and 'Orpheus', directed by Jean Cocteau (1950).

However, neither movie is even close to being a carbon copy of the other despite their shared roots in the same mythologic legend. In Camus' Black Orpheus, the protagonist is a charismatic and well known singer in a poor Brazilian hillside neighborhood who spends as much time womanizing as playing guitar. However, on the eve of his wedding (to take place on the same day as Carnival) he meets a young woman named Euridice who has come to town to stay with her cousin after being chased off of her family farm. Although the movie rarely takes a turn into the overt supernatural, it is understood that the man chasing her is "death", and although Orpheus and Euridice have never met before (at least in this lifetime), they quickly recognize themselves as historical soulmates fated to love one another. Between being chased by both "death" and Orpheus' jealous former bride, their courtship takes a tragic turn.

Using the gorgeous scenery of Brazil and the bright costumes of Carnival, one has to look hard for the mythological references to the Greek legend that the movie is based upon, but they are there (for example, a german shepherd guarding a gate is named Cerebus). The music is great, and the film is frequently cited as a harbinger of the bossanova sound to the United States in the '60s.  The supporting cast is very good as well, especially two young boys who help Orpheus throughout the movie and take over his mantle at the end. As they play his old guitar as the sun rises on a new day, you are left to wonder where the new Euridice is also no doubt dancing, unaware that fate will eventually draw her to the little boy in the years to come. For a movie about life and death the film carries good feelings with it much of the time, and Euridice's cousin even provides some nice touches of comedy.

Most criticism seems to center around whether or not the poor sections of Brazil have been romanticized to the point that they hurt the film.  They certainly have been idealized, there is no crime or disease about, but you also have to remember the movie is set in the days of Carnival.  Even if many of the people lived in squalor for 364 days, Carnival was always seen as a joyous time that people worked towards and lived to the fullest when it came. If you don't want to take it with that grain of salt, as long as you accept that the movie is not supposed to be a social commentary on poverty you can also see why the director made such choices.  The more happiness he can inject into the first part of the movie the better the contrast to death will be. Also, the costumes of Carnival allow him to give a mythologic flair to the movie without making it overtly supernatural (for example, "death" is represented by a dancer in a skeleton mask, which would have otherwise seemed downright silly). If you are offended by indigenous portrayals such as those in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003ICZW78">Black Narcissus (The Criterion Collection) [Blu-ray</a>] you may not enjoy this film. I respect opposing viewpoints but believe that most people will find very little to be bothered by.

Ultimately an excellent film that can transport and immerse you completely into a different time and place, even if it is primarily not real. Fun and entertaining escapism with a soundtrack as good as the movie itself.