The content of the movie is gone over in a number of the reviews, so I will just give my opinions of the movie in general and leave the telling of the story to others.

I saw this movie shortly after its release and enjoyed it immensely.  I have read the books and listened to them on audiotape again recently, and yes, I enjoy the series.  One thing that should be mentioned is that the Narnia series was written for children (my wife tells me I'm just a big kid!) and therefore the fantasy tale will stretch the imagination of adults (we are always looking for reality - hardly the point of a children's fantasy movie.)  There are things better explained in the book, but then to put them in the movie would have people complaining the movie was too long.

With a couple of exceptions, I thought the special effects were fantastic.  I can see why some would compare this to the "Lord of the Rings" series, but I'm not sure that is a fair comparison.  While I think Narnia was well done, the "Lord of the Rings" movies are unlikely to be surpassed for quite some time, and Narnia does not do that.  However, I felt it did do an excellent job on C. S. Lewis' classic tale.

There is violence in the Narnia series, but nowhere near the amount in the "Ring" series, and the way it is done seems to be designed to keep this a children's movie.  I'm glad - there is plenty of gratuitous violence in Hollywood, and this movie doesn't need it.  I also felt that the characters with the witch seemed more completely evil than I imagined them from the book (almost like they were trying to mimic the Orcs from the "Ring" series), but that is a minor quibble, or just a matter of opinion.  All in all, I came away refreshed after seeing this movie.

Just a quick side note - I also enjoyed the "Lord of the Rings" movies and consider them some of the best movies of all time, but they are designed for a different audience.  My comments comparing "Narnia" to that movie are with the fact that "Narnia" was designed for children kept in mind.  While there were many children at the "Lord of the Rings" movies, I personally wouldn't recommend them for children.

I suppose it would be correct to say that this movie isn't for everyone - just read some of the reviews - but I believe it is a safe movie to take your kids too.  Most people I talked to seemed to enjoy it, and you might even find that you do as well.  I look forward to its release on DVD.