I am reviewing the September 2011 Blu-Ray edition of Ben-Hur.

In a word, it is spectacular!  Initially scheduled to come out two years ago on its 50th anniversary of the original theatrical release, it was delayed so that the high-definition on this old-school film could be achieved properly.  Trust me --- it was worth the wait.  The video is magnificent.  Details are clearly visible.  The HD has added the perception of depth to this two-dimensional feature.  I was amazed by the detail, such as the leaves of the trees blowing in the breeze.  Those who watch this primarily for the chariot race are not likely to be disappointed either. The rich color and depth add life to this film which has always been fun to watch but often showed its age.  The sea battle scenes, which I always thought looked fake on the smaller screens of television, look so much more realistic in this edition.  I cannot say enough about the high-definition video.

The audio is also fantastic.  I could not detect a single audio artifact in the entire soundtrack.  The digitized recording is clear and free of hum and hiss.  Rozsa's score is amazing and so much more enjoyable in this remastered format.

I was reluctant (because of the extra cost) to purchase the Ultimate Collector's Edition.  I debated both before I went to the store and at the store whether I should buy this edition or the basic Blu-Ray.  I am more than happy with my purchase of the Collector's Edition.  It comes with a 64-page Production Art book and a 128-page reproduction of Charlton Heston's personal diary of the film.  And, of course, there are quite a few video features (including the 1925 silent version) on Disc 3 of the Blu-Ray set, most of which I have yet to watch.

There are two things that bothered me.  The one major thing that disappointed me was that the face of Jesus in the scene before Pilate was deliberately blacked out.  I think the intention was to make it look like a shadow.  Instead it looks like someone went into  Microsoft Paint and used an airbrush to black out his face.  For a very brief second, you can see his face when he begins to bend down to pick up his cross.  I imagine that the actor who portrayed Jesus had something in his contract about his face not being seen, or maybe it was a personal preference of William Wyler's.  With the higher definition now available with Blu-Ray and on the bigger high-definition TV screens, the face of Jesus would have certainly been clearer in this format.  Personally, I wish they would have left it alone and allowed his face to be shown for that one brief scene.  The "shadow" looks ugly.

The other thing that bothered me is more minor but noticable.  Perhaps the problem exists in previous versions and I just never noticed it.  In the scene where the slaves are being marched through Nazareth and Jesus gives Ben-Hur water, if you watch towards the end of that scene, you will notice that the audio sync is off.  When the Roman shouts something along the lines of "Back to your places!" the audio is clearly out of sync with the Roman soldier's lips.

Other than those two things, I am amazed by this Blu-Ray edition of "Ben-Hur" and will watch it again in the very near future.  It is a beautiful upgrade from DVD and I agree whole-heartedly with Blu-Ray.com's assessment that Ben-Hur is the gold standard of what can be accomplished with high-definition Blu-Ray.