On paper, "Bedazzled" has a lot going for it:  a premise with possibility, the director of the classic "Groundhog's Day" and "Caddyshack" (Harold Ramis), big-budget makeup, and (as anyone who's seen the preview can attest to) tons of sexy shots of a scantily clad Elizabeth Hurley.  Unfortunately, the making of great comedies involves a lot more than simple addition, and "Bedazzled" too often resorts to visual glitz instead of the key ingredient - humor.  
The plot sounds good enough.  Elliot Richards (Brendan Frasier) is a hopeless geek who desperately wants to be liked by his co-workers and, most of all, a girl named Allison, who he's had a crush on for two years.  During a particularly depressing trip to the bar, where he's dissed by Allison and mercilessly teased by co-workers, Elliot runs into, of all people, The Devil (Liz Hurley).  The devil gives Elliot an offer he can't refuse:  in exchange for his soul, he will get seven wishes, each ostensibly including Allison.  
From here, we watch as the confused Elliot tries to wish his way into the life of his dreams, all the while trying to outsmart the crafty devil.  When he wishes to be rich and powerful, he becomes a hunted druglord.  When he wishes to be a basketball player, he finds himself dreadfully short of, shall we say, "equipment".  When he wishes to be suave and intelligent, Elliot becomes a gay man.  You get the idea.  
Sounds okay, right?  In execution, though, the plot simply seems to jerk from one slightly amusing motif to another with little continuity.  At times, the movie feels more like a series of loosely related sketches than a major motion picture.  When the protagonist changes personalities every ten or fifteen minutes, it is difficult for the audience to truly empathize with him, as "Bedazzled" proves once and for all.  Individually, the performances are passable, but the interaction between actors lacks any chemistry whatsoever.  Elizabeth Hurley has a sense of humor and gumption that belie her supermodel looks and Brendan Frasier is versatile and amusing in his many roles.  The essential problem here is that Hurley and Frasier are both "straight men" - the type of actors who are good at looking outraged at the "zany character's" shenanigans.  Yet, neither has the over-the-top charisma of a Mike Meyers or Jim Carrey or the deadpan gravity of a Bill Murray or Ben Stiller.  Neither is really suitable to play a comic lead.  To make matters worse, anyone who has seen the commercial for "Bedazzled" on T.V. has essentially seen a passable synopsis of the film and all of the movie's few funny scenes.  Once you've seen all of Brendan Frasier's silly outfits and every one of Liz Hurley's tantalizing getups, there really isn't a good reason to catch "Bedazzled".  
Conclusion:  "Bedazzled", a few sight gags aside, is one of the least funny comedies in recent memory.