I got this DVD on a recommendation from a 911 Truther. There has been solid refutation of most of the claims made in this movie (and other similar books and movies), the best one being the NIST final report: Federal Building and Fire Safety Investigation of the World Trade Center Disaster: Final Report of the National Construction Safety Team on the Collapses of the World Trade Center Towers (NIST NCSTAR 1).

As part of my college engineering studies I took a class called Strength of Materials and was surprised (along with the rest of the class) to learn that steel framed buildings have very poor fire ratings. This is because when steel gets hot (way before it melts) the strength degrades a huge amount. Because of this fact all building codes require that some form of thermal insulation be applied to structural steel. If this thermal insulation is compromised, like when an large airplane crashes into a building, the steel no longer can function when exposed to fire. Note that a steel framed building can survive a fire for many many house if the thermal insulation is intact. The 911 truthers don't seem able to comprehend this idea.

The idea that explosives were used brings up the question of where they were placed.  Everywhere?, No, then not in the basement of WTC1, WTC2 because the videos show the collapse starting where the planes hit.  So were explosives placed at those points and it was the job of the pilot to crash at that exact floor?  In the National Geographic DVD showing the prep for a controlled demolition of an 8 story building the amount of prep is much larger than you might think, and for a building the size of WTC1, WTC2 or WTC7 would be massive.  After explosives are used there are many clues that are not vaporized, but none were found.

Another aspect that I found interesting is the claim that there were military exercises occurring on Sep 11, 2001. The implication was that the exercises were there to complicate or disrupt a response to the events of 9/11. If the movie could say that no such exercises had taken place prior to and/or after 9/11 then they might have had the start of a case, but the fact that they couldn't make that claim really detracts from their theory in that it's something that can easily be checked. So it's clear they knew or didn't what to know about the frequency of these tests and were putting up a straw man.

An interesting aspect to the 911 Truth movement is that they seem to be related to the Democratic party in the same way that Evangelical Christians are related to the Republican party. For more on that see the book <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/038552062X">The Great Derangement: A Terrifying True Story of War, Politics, and Religion</a>.