I try to watch this film at least once a year, because it reminds me of  what is truly important in life and what are only passing sensations. I  first watched it as a teenager after having been mesmerised by Tom Hanks in  "Big", and at that point in time I appreciated all the quirky  jokes and scenes, but was not mature enough to see deeper. On repeated  viewings as an adult I kept seeing more and more meanings in the film, and  its central message - don't let the economic pressures of life destroy your  capacity for wonder and hope - became more and more resonant. This film  together with "Big" is for me Tom Hanks's greatest and most  inspiring performances. It is a hallmark of his style that he is able to  move and entertain you at the same time, almost effortlessly. Although he  subsequently became a very famous "serious" actor, in my opinion  he was never more serious than when he played these quirky roles. Meg Ryan  is equally inspired to give a great performance, though I never realised  she played 3 parts until my sister told me ! The film, like all great  films, has an extremely simple, you could say silly plot. But it is filled  with superb, subtle comic scenes with a dazzling array of cameo appearances  by the support cast. There are then a series of reflections on what life is  and what it could be, with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan giving different points  of view. There are some lyrical, dreamy songs in the film which fit  perfectly with the introspective nature of the dialogue. The film is full  of moving moments, my favourite is when Joe marooned sees the moon rising  in the South Pacific for the first time, and though he faces almost certain  death, all he can think of at that moment is how beautiful it is, and  despite the rotten life he has been handed, thanks God for this moment. One  senses all his sadness and disappointment with life being washed away by  this simple vision. If perhaps you are not too happy with your job or life,  and have become depressed about it, watch this film. I cannot promise it  will make your troubles go away, but I think it may help you to see life  differently, It certainly did for me ! In my opinion, this film ranks with  the Capra classic "Its A Wonderful Life" in its resonant message  of hope and courage in facing the unknown. One laughs, is moved and finally  inspired - and this is what great art is about isn't it. The film also  teaches you to never judge a video by its cover !