Disney's "Peter Pan" is one of their most enchantingly delightful animated features, telling the story of how Peter Pan whisked Wendy, John, and Michael off to his home in Never Land for a magical adventure none of them would ever forget fighting Captin Hook and his ruthless band of pirates.
Although the original 1999 "Limited Issue" DVD lacked bonus features (with the only one being the option to watch the movie in French), fans of the film have been rewarded for waiting with this Special Edition. The movie looks better then it did on any previous release, and that's reason enough to buy this masterpiece. But the extra features -- oh! True, this disc pales in comparison to the Platinum Edition release of "Snow White" (unfortunately "Peter Pan" is NOT one of the nine other Platinum Editions to be issued over the next decade) but for one disc I'd say they did a pretty nice job. "You Can Fly: The Making of Peter Pan" was also provided on the 1998 45th Anniversary Limited Edition VHS, but it's worthy of another watch. After seeing the movie again, start with that, and then see the wonderful 13-minute 1952 promotional featurette "The Peter Pan Story." They're even more exellent when viewed together.
Next, head back to the movie, but turn on the audio commentary this time. Hosted by Roy E. Disney, it provides some really amazing information on the film I never knew before. Other commentators include Walt Disney himself (pieced together from old interviews, etc.), some of his Nine Old Men, other vetran animators, Kathryn Beaumont (who provided Wendy's voice in the feature), and of course noted film critic Lenoard Multin, among others.  Next, take a few minutes to examine the vast visiual gallery.  Wonderful stuff in there for fans and casuial viewers alike.
The bonuses aimed at kids are worth a look too. The best by far was the "Following the Leader" sing-along, although it looked a bit dull (not being taken from the newly restored version of the film, but an older one), and the Pirate Treasure Hunt game was fun, if too easy. The DVD storybook was AWFUL, though, attempting to create a new story out of the animation that was already created for the original movie. If that sounds confusing, don't worry, don't bother with the feature. Another note: Why couldn't they have put a "You Can Fly" sing along on the disc as well? There was a Sing Along videotape devoted to that one as the title tune, so a version does exsist. I'dve much prefered it over "Following the Leader," but really would've liked both. Oh well.
Lastly, there's a new trailer for "Return to Never Land" (NOT either of the theatrical ones; this one has some really great new footage) that's worth a look before you go see the movie. And if you buy this before March 31, your child will get in free -- as an extra bonus, there's one free child's admission movie ticket for "Return" inside every Special Edition DVD and video.
In addition to all this, new trailers show that among others "Beauty and the Beast" and "The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh" will make it to DVD this year (finally) in October for the former and May for the latter. Great news, I think. Plus there's a really cute Disney TV spot called "Magic Happens" on the second menu of trailers.
All in all, this is a wonderful DVD -- much better then the Limited Issue edition -- and I'm glad to own it. Something you shouldn't miss! ***** (5/5)