I ABSOULUTELY love watching this movie, because it really makes the Bible story of Moses come to LIFE! I LOVE God for who He is! GOD IS AN AWESOME GOD! I am so happy that I own it, to watch it anytime! For those who are thinking about purchasing this movie, it is truly a classic bible movie (very accurate to the life of Moses in the Bible) IS worth buying & watching for yrs to come. It reveals the truth about God, Moses, and how human history really came about. God tells it all. Charleston Henston, makes a great Moses. Just some insight about this movie...for those who rated it as bad or said they didnt like it, dont base your decision on their personal opinion, alone. If you truly are seeking to know the truth about God (seeking wisdom), this movie will move your heart to know more about Him, after seeing it. Based on my life experience, when I watched this movie for the 1st time on TV at home, while I was growing up as a child (age 10), I watched it with my parents. But, at that time, I was an unbeliever (not a believer or Christian). I did not take much interest in it, because my parents did not speak often about God, for me to really know him for who He really is. It was til I got older, and started seeking God for help, did the movie make more sense to me, AFTER I decided to accept God into my life, and became a "born-again" Christian. A few months after I started living my life as a Christian (a believer), I decided to browse thru bible movies to watch. I came across this movie, and my mind suddenly had flash backs of when I saw this as a girl, and started to remember that I had saw it before. I didnt remember all of it, but I desired to love and know God as a Christian, so I purchased the movie. I was so happy I did, because after watching it this time (as a Christian), knowing about God in the life of Moses in this movie, as truly moved me heart than ever before, for I understood it, as a Christian. Because I choose to love God and seek to know Him, the movie happen to be more meaningful to me, than when I didnt, 20 yrs ago. So, loving or hating this movie, will all depend on if your heart desires to love God and know Him or not. Unbelievers, who are not seeking to know God, but are forced to watch it (like I did, as a child), will not like it, take interest in it, and/or understand it, whereas those who believe in God (know Him), and desire to love and know more about God, will. Hope this helps.