Metal - A Headbanger's Journey is an insightful look into the world of heavy metal.  If you take it light-heartedley, this doco gives a wonderful "overview" of what metal is all about.  This in no way should be taken as a "complete history of" or the be all and end all film about metal, but merely as an introduction to the many social aspects that turn people towards (and in some cases against) metal. It's produced quite well, and overall a lot of people will be quite satisfied watching some of the more "famous/commercial" stars of the metal/hard rock world tell their opinions on the various aspects of what makes metal, metal!

This however, is perhaps the film's greatest downfall, in that most of the bands concentrated on are the more commercial ones, and even in some cases, not metal at all, I mean really why are Slipknot, Korn and Rage Against The Machine included.  It's like they were dumbing it down so the general public would watch and go "oh so that's what it's all about".

Another aspect that could of enhanced the film, is to take opinions of European and other non North American metal fans, as i'm sure most people would agree, there is quite a divide between the American "scene" and the European one.  His visit to Norway and Wacken was good, but he still left out a hell of a lot of info about Swedish death metal, German thrash and English death and doom and the effect it had on the metal psyche in those parts of the world.

I dont' see how you can neglect entire sub-genres of metal and try to give an explanation of what metal is all about.  I can guarantee that Alice Cooper's take on metal differs significantly from say, everyone else.  If Alice Cooper thinks metal is just an act, that's because to him, metal was just an act.  Would people like Dead or Rob Darken think that?

This basically comes down to what I said at the start, if you take this light-heartedly, this is great, semi-factual family entertainment.  Gaahl's "Satan" is the funniest thing i have ever seen.  I know this is not meant to be a history of metal, but if you think this is the ultimate guide to what metal is all about, aka its stereotypes, its sexuality, its whatever, you're probably reading this listening to Slipknot in the background right now.