As a long time fan of the Ghost Rider Comics as a kid, I had to see this movie.  While a LOT of the character of the movie has NOTHING in common with the source material, it's still an enjoyable B-Movie along the lines of Bubba Ho-Tep or Army of Darkness.

I'd probably have given it four stars if the movie stuck closer to the source and had a darker, more real tone, and five stars had it bee rated R and expanded on the dark nature of the source material as some of the newer comics have.

Instead, we have a corny Johnny Blaze character with no real edge to him, villains that pose no real threat to the Ghost Rider and more often than not simply stand there and get their butts handed to them, and a jumpy cut of a movie that tries not to simply flow from one action sequence to another but ends up simply jumping between action pieces.

That said, the special effects are really good.  Yes, some of the effects shots look goofy...  Yes, the fire effects sometimes leap from realistic to utterly idiotic looking, but the effect overall is very cool and a solid base from which a future sequel should be able to improve upon.

The Extended cut doesn't really add much of anything to the theatrical version of the movie, but the bonus material found on the second disk is worth the price differences.

I really do hope that they make a sequel to this film with a different title lead actor that goes more "adult" and dark with the material and makes it less "goofy action flick about a guy on a motor cycle with a flaming skull for a head" than this one did.

Go into this one expecting an "army of darkness" style flick that's fun, meaningless and goofy and you'll come out pleasantly surprised.  Go in looking for a dark and gritty horror-like film about a demon of vengeance fighting against the man it possesses who is on a quest for redemption (ala the source material) and you'll cry.  Be warned.

But in the grand scheme of things, this is infinitely better than the Fantastic Four movie, the Daredevil movie, Electra, The Hulk movie, most of the Batman flicks, or the abysmal Superman Returns.