Chris Nolan deserved an academy award nomination for his previous direction of Momento. He probably was denied such an honor merely because that great film did not receive the backing of a large studio. Insomnia is clearly one of the best films that you will likely see this year. It is breathtakingly beautiful to look at. One will envy the Alaskans who are so fortunate to be surrounded by such awe inspiring scenery. Insomnia would be well worth seeing just for that fact alone. However, it offers substantially more than mere attractiveness. The acting of Al Pacino and Robin Williams is stupendous. Williams abandons his standard nice guy roles to portray a character of low self esteem who will stop at virtually nothing to escape justice. Both men will probably be remembered during Oscar time. Hillary Swank is also very good in her role as the idealistic young detective Ellie Burr who worships the ground that older homicide investigator Will Dormer (Pacino) walks on.
The story revolves around the murder of a seventeen year old girl. Detective Dormer is called in from Los Angeles to assist the local police in finding the killer. He is accompanied by partner Hap Eckert (Martin Donovan) who is about to turn state's evidence against him. Dormer planted evidence on a man suspected of torturing and murdering a young boy. The veteran detective knows his life is about to be ruined. He then accidentally shoots and kills Hap. This is where the film takes off as we witness Dormer's personality and moral disintegration. We learn early on that a mildly popular crime novelist named Walter Finch (Williams) has murdered the girl. The plot twists and turns while Dormer suffering from a severe lack of sleep hunts down Finch---and finds himself in the untenable checkmated predicament where he is unable to arrest the manipulating Finch. Insomnia builds upon the eternally reoccurring tragic themes of sin and redemption. Can Dormer still do the right thing, or has his past compromises with wrong doing incapacitated his moral compass? Try imagining Crime and Punishment and Macbeth in an Alaskan rural setting.
Insomnia easily earns five stars and proves that Chris Nolan is one of our greatest living directors. You should see this film as quickly as possible. Don't walk, but run to the theater. Let the kids view the escapist movies currently being released. Insomnia is a film for us adults.