I'm not really getting the five star reviews for this. Eris is a catgirl from space who comes down one day to visit. She inserts herself into the life of a bland video loving boy and his friends, one of which is a CIA agent wannabe (at 16ish) and the other who is an item-teleporting assassin in a power suit while being shy as a dove in normal life. Then, start adding tons of irrelevant characters like Eris's fetish-pandering crewmates, the leader of a cat-worshipping cult, a robot, and more.

It looks great, but it's really a bog-standard harem anime with all the pitfalls of the genre and some serious theme inconsistency. The male lead has virtually no personality and does nothing, yet somehow everyone loves him. Compare him to Keitaro from Love Hina, who had clear goals, and the comedy was from him trying to choose one girl while she resisted him and the others wanted him. Eris...good lord, I didn't think it was possible to make a blander heroine than Miharu from Girls Bravo.

The anime I think notices this and the main focus seems to be on Aoi and Manabi with asides on the supporting cast. But both of them are just stereotypes, and different ones at that, and they don't fit. Both start out semi-seriously in the vein of gunslinger girl or other action anime, but then you have cat robots bonking people with mallets and bullets that strip you naked. The whole "Military one second, shy teenagers the next" idea doesn't mesh well either, compared to Full Metal Panic.

The supporting cast: well lets say they are there to fill stereotypes. Eris's crew don't have personalities, they have fetish types: the buxom teacher wearing glasses, the lolita, the flat-chested girl, and the leader with bigger breasts than Eris (who is freakishly proportioned to begin with.) They keep adding them into the 7th or 8th episode, like the talisman girl or the first assistdroid, making it kind of annoying because there are already multiple characters getting ignored, like Kio's teacher who desperately wishes for an actual alien race to make content with.

It's well animated, and has a bouncy opening and closing theme, but it adds nothing new and feels bland. I like harem anime, but this feels like it was churned out on an assembly line for heavy otaku. Another reviewer mentions that it explores the themes of harem anime deeply, but it doesn't-it still has the beach episode, (you can usually tell how bad a harem anime is by it's beach episode: Yumeria if I remember pushed it up to like episode 3,) still has the episode where all the cast sings, still has the sexless wishy-washy male lead, still has the mascot characters, still plays to types, still manages to put in maid outfitted characters, and does little new. Even the Star Trek references were done better in Martian Successor Nadeisco, which isn't technically even a harem anime.

So avoid this unless you are desperate for new harem anime. At least it's better than Kampfer or Yumeria.