Since the day of "Terminator" and its sequels, I have been baffled by linear story lines with the twist of time. And I watched "Terminator 2" all too often, looking for a clue to make sense but to no avail. On the other hand, "Groundhog Day" is a twist that I completely understand and sympathise. The idea of reincarnation as a dance a kindred spirit has been trying to get shows through. "Groundhog Day" is a collection of smaller movies done by the same person on the same day with a different outcome because of his previous (life) experience and knowledge before him. Separately each day makes little meaning. Together they make a world of difference, one that changes one's perception.

More than a decade later came another collection of smaller movies called "The Lake House." However, unlike the clean cut plot in "Groundhog Day", the micro stories inside "The Lake House" overlap one another. Their plots, too, are interwoven so much that we end up watching multiple movies at the same time. Therefore, although both "Groundhog Day" and "The Lake House" challenge their viewers to broaden their perspective, the latter asks more from the viewers: a prior knowledge of "Persuasion", and a multi task of watching three or four stories going on at the same time.

"The Lake House" works with a lasso of time, whose points wave back and forth casually. The director uses a dog called Jack skillfully to plot these micro stories apart. Jack is male in Kate's story, female in Alex's, and she disappears into the woods as a cue for their separation in the end. There are three tragedies and one comedy in "The Lake House", the way I see it. The first tragedy is Kate's reunion with Morgan after two years' living in the Lake House, a split image of her mother's marriage to her father. The second is Alex's knowing too much ahead and searching too deep. Death came as a result. The third is of course bad timing. Towards the end we witness a perfect couple growing apart because they are short of two years. It reflects the love stories with lines like, "I wish I met you back then", or the like.

Also towards the end, a twist of plot recovers the same couple from ashes of time and thereby works out a different ending, a happier ending than that of "Groundhog Day" in my opinion. The Lake House is a stage, the movie is a light romance. However, it is more enlightening to me than the other time twisters I've watched for the past two decades!

Footnote: I just found out this movie is a remake of Il Mare. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0002LI2LQ">Il Mare (Two-Disc Special Edition)</a>