Well first of all, this is a fantastic show, and it's in Chicago. The line up is stellar and everyone is having a great time. Yes there could have been others there as we all know- Larry Carlton, Robben Ford, Steve Vai and maybe even Les Paul--and with Blues folk Otis Rush -who has been sick and of course Bo Diddley (who had a tune dedicated to him by Robbie Robertson and had suffered a stroke earlier this year) Chuck Berry (he lives close!) Jody Williams maybe a lot of others...

But you can't please everyone and I thought the show was a nice mix. Very entertaining and the various combinations which played together (the real highlight of this DVD) seem to work well. I am a Blues enthusiast and the Blues in this show is fantastic. Hubert Sumilin plays great as does Robert Cray-who usually has no effects, but pulls off a little delay in "Poor Johnny". And Johnny Winter, who is also ill, brings back the fire in "Highway 61" as noted his slide playing is still phenomenal, and he gets applause from Derek Trucks!

B.B. King is very charming as usual at 82 and does well with Jimmie Vaughan, Hubert and Robert Cray. Well presented and touching with Eric in the wings. In Disc 2 we have John Mayer and the charismatic Los Lobos who start it off. Then the masterful Jeff Beck always amazing as he was when I first saw him with Rod Stewart on vocals at the Newport Jazz Festival in 1968. His quartet with Tal Wilkenfeld on bass, originally an Aussie from Sydney (Bondi) now based in the US-she is a stunner she may be the next Jaco Pastorius or Charlie Mingus and sexy too! I agree with other reviewers this band should tour now! Maybe Tal can sing?

Eric's set is great of course. I saw it in Australia this year (twice). Great selection of not the usual E.C. classics--well Doyle Bramhall II does "Outside Women Blues" on Disc 1. He does things from early in his solo career and of course a tribute to George Harrison. The highlight is his sub-set of Blind Faith tunes with Stevie Winwood. I haven't heard "Presence of the Lord"  since I was 19 years old!!! Just superb. "Had to Cry Today" with Winwood and Clapton playing double lead is also excellent. This was worth the whole price of the DVD.

Yes, everyone has the items and artists they would wish for. This set does include Jeff Beck thankfully, but the whole show is well presented.
I am a Blues person but can appreciate Albert Lee and Vince Gill, too. This DVD will satisfy most musical tastes. The end with Buddy Guy, after ZZ Top in Texas, was also appropriate and proper even if Buddy did not have his incredible Sax player with him on the night. Buddy is a Chicago Blues icon and you could not have had a guitar show in Chicago without him. The final jam of the day "Sweet Home Chicago" with Buddy, John Mayer, Johnny Winter, Robert Cray, Jimmie Vaughan, Hubert Sumlin and Eric was a perfect end to the show.

This DVD is a must for guitar fans of all genres. The extras include snippets of performances of Tab Benoit, with his 72 Telecaster Thinline, playing with Skunk Baxter, Harvey Mandel (a native of Chicago of Canned Heat fame) with his strange custom axe and a very attractive young woman "Orianthi" getting an interesting Blues sound out of a PRS.

It is commendable that this show is different and varied and is a great companion volume to the first Crossroads DVD. And this Chicago edition has the comic wit of Bill Murray--I loved his intro of Eric Clapton while he was dressed up like the Clapton of '68 with perm and painted Gibson SG- wow! Lastly, it was very interesting and touching to 58 year olds like me, who have played guitar all of our lives, when Bill came out at the start of the show and played "Gloria" ("the only song I can play") I am sure many many folks out there had a tear in their eye with that memory!