First of all i would like to point out that this is her Greatest Hits DVD COMPLILATION !!!!!!!!! NOT the single "Celebration".....so stop with the bashing!! Ok you may hate the song but this is a DVD video package so go review the single elsewhere!

RIGHT! On with the review....Theres not a lot to say really (im lying), a few words maybe...ICON, Legend, Diva, Visionary, Queen Of Pop... This is Madonna ladies and gentlemen, her greatest video singles pulled together in one visually stimulating place. Im not going to mince my words, artistically the lady is unique when it comes to excersisng her creative mind, nothing is to elaborate, risque or challenging, in fact the more challenging the better, and we as her captive audience are all the better for that. She doesnt feel the need to play to genres, stick with the same old same old, from day one with the release of her first video single "Everybody" back in the summer of 1982, she tapped into the underground club culture of down town New York and its vibrant new wave scene. She had that video filmed at a club called Danceteria, a place which gave her the break she needed to make her first ever mark on the music world. The video was unashamedly raw, with a budget of $1, 500 it was shot in a single day and sent out to clubs with no mixing, editing or visual alterations, just what Madonna wanted and it worked...the video gave her a certain amount of cult kudos, the darling of the disco label that would carry on through her career no matter what musical path she would choose to take, dance never left her...even if the song itself was a sombre affair you could bet that with each of those downbeat moments there was an uplifting remix to carry it over to the clubs, its in her veins. But she was clever, most music artists were sceptical of the music video when it first became a medium with which to touch the fans, in the first half of the 80's most artists passed them over, a few like Michael Jackson, Prince and Madonna saw the potential and grabbed it with both arms, Madonna learned that she could portray her song through the video, a form of expression with which to entertain, self herself AND to question or provoke, that coupled with her love of changing faces made her the greatest female entertainer of our time, and the most successful. Because of her videos some of these faces, more specifically the costumes she chose to adorn - have become cult icons in their own right. Her conicled brassieres and ponytail, the Virgin wedding dress, the Marylin monroe pastiche look and the Marlene Deitrich styled androgynous suit used in 1989's Express Yourself video, have altered fashion and peoples perception of her and women in general; through the form of video she could chanel different characters even, mini movies so to speak which would push the sexual boundaries and cross multi cultural divides like 1994's Secret, Madonna played a white lower class club singer who was married to an African/American gangster, interacial relationships were at the time, extremely controversial in America, and still are. In 1992's Erotica video she chose to unleash her alter ego Dita, a dominatrix who pushed the boundaries of what was expected of women at that moment in time and broach the subject of homosexuality through its exploration of same sex love, with 1993's Bad Girl she chose to portray herself as a sad and lonely business woman who finds her solace in death, heavy stuff when you think of the chubby girl bouncing around on the set of 1983's video to her hit Holiday. But its not all been serious!, nobody knows how to party like Madonna and boy do many of her videos reflect that...1992's Deeper And Deeper paid homage to close friend Andy Warhol and his style of film making, casting flamboyant artists of the time like german actor Udo Keir, the gay porn industries heavy weight Chi Chi La Rue and her very own friends and actresses Debbie Mazzar and Sophia Coppolla; with them Madonna toured the flamboyant gay underground clubs of 1970's L.A., the video was actually inspired by and dedicated to one of Warhols favourite muses from the 1970's and who he collaborated with on several occassions, Madonna played Eddie Sedgewick, a cult actress whom appeared in several of his classic films.

The collection we have here are some of the most captivating, cutlurally significant and artistically beautiful videos ever created, some are pithy at best such as 1993's Fever video produced by uber cool producer Stephane Sednaoui, others such as 1993's Rain are mesmerising for the sheer effort and beauty, the video was shot in black and white and hand coloured by every single frame to give it an almost oceanic quality, this video won several awards including a grammy, one of many for her visual work. The latter part of Madonnas visual career saw her roller-scating in discos (Sorry, 2006), enchanting her audience in the arizona desert (Frozen, 1998), air walking over the pacific ocean accompanied by thousands of faries (Love Profusion, 2004) and brutally fighting her darker side, and winning!, in 2002's award winning clip to her hit single Die Another Day. Shes circumnavigated the globe from Japan to the canals of venice and even appeared in a futuristic styled universe where she has her dreams analysed as a crew member of a mothership (1995's Bedtime Story), that video was later acquired for the New York Museum of Modern Art's film and video collection due to its cultural and influential significance, it was also the most expensive video created at that time surpassing her own Express Yourself in terms of cost.

Along with entertaining her audience with videos Madonna has also used the medium to provoke, not in a negative way but to make her audience question the life around them, she see's herself in a privalidged position and was once quoted as saying "if i can make people sit up and take notice then i will, if i can make them confront their fears then i will do that also, i like to provoke, its good to challenge". That has been her driving force, a driving force which some people may view as pushing her audience too far, 2003's banned video to the song American Life, was as explicit as it was beautiful, brought to us as an anti-war video (the Iraqi invasion), Madonna wanted us to see why she was against the so called war on terror which, rather disgustingly on our behalf, backfired, so much so that she even pulled the video herself, something she had never done before... 4 of her clips have been banned, 1990's Justify My Love, 1992's Erotica, 2001's What It feels Like For A Girl and the most recent American Life. Many broached subjects such as sex, cultural themes or in the latters case, war, but never had she omitted defeat, this time she was forced to do so or possibly lose her life! The clip aired on German TV for a week before it was pulled, an oozy totting soldier shooting jets of water from a pimped up mini cooper at hoards of press type moguls watching a bloody catwalk parade wihich turns from high fashion to mangled soldiers and limbless children, it was as blatant as it was shocking, it really did portray the horrors of war, but we chose not to look, afraid to face reality? The video sank along with the album but to her fans it remains her most accomplished work and most daring, we can only pray it makes its debut here.

Wether she's been the darling of the disco or the oozy tooting military babe, Madonnas videos have always inspired, revolutionised and given people a chance to escape from the mundane, her works such as 1990's Vogue directed by Aliens director David Fincher continue to inspire even as i type, the art deco black and white video made waves when it was aired for its revolutionary style of visuals, costume and, of course, the dance...a movement she tapped into whilst clubbing with friends in late 80's New York, excited by the gay club scene which had liberated her in the 1970's as a ballet student, she purposely hired the most aesthetic and beautiful gay men to portray themselves with raw abandonment, the video went on to win several awards that year and then go down in the anals of celluloid history as a milestone in the creation of pop videos worldwide, the song was a smash around the globe, further proof that what she tapped into all those years before was worth its weight in gold. One can only wonder where her next visual feast will take us? Jupiter? Oh yeah, she did that with 2006's Get Together.... anything is possible as this collection will prove, wether Kraftwerk Ghetto Camp (2000's Music) or Japanese Manga (2006's Jump) we are sure to be enthralled and captivated just like we were when she writhed in a Gondala for 1984's Like A Virgin, this complilation is testament to the genius that she really is and like it or not, you can bet your bottom dollar there will be more where the last 68 videos have come from and a clutch of eager divas just ready to carbon copy her! Celebration indeed.