For any KISS fan, this third installment is a must. Unfortunately, there are songs edited out of certain shows. For whatever reasons, the quality of the shows found on discs one through three and the bonus discs is outstanding. Disc four of this set is also something to see (buy it and find out for yourself what disc four is all about).

I've been reading more and more reviews that talk to the lack of shows found in this set. I suppose one BIG reason why more Reunion Tour, Psycho Circus and Farewell Tour shows weren't included is simple: the shows were basically all the same and the set lists quite franly never strayed from what Peter could handle (check out the beginning to some of the songs on the Reunion Tour discs...).

What is interesting to me, is that you can actually hear how much the original line-up progressed musically from the bonus KROQathon (Weenie Roast) disc to the Farewell Show (the Last Kiss). They were getting tighter. What is also noticable is the current rounds of Peter and Ace bashing done by Paul and Gene throughout the commentary.

The commentary is great (perhaps the best Rock DVD commentary ever is Cheap Trick's Australian DVD release on Rhino - get it, watch it), but in some ways it feels like 1993 all over again (read, yes actually read KISSTORY and it's that vibe once again). It's a lot of the same rhetoric for the same reasons. IT IS however, fantastic to hear their thoughts regarding certain time periods. I only wish they'd had the wherewithall to at least include Peter and Ace and Vinnie along the way.

I too wish that they had also included television spots (Arsenio Hall, with Garth Brooks on Jay Leno's show, how about the Lettermen show with the Lemonheads?) and such, but they didn't and that's on them. Perhaps another set is due?

All in all, I look at this like the original Star Wars films: the second one was the best and the last one kinda leaves you realizing that maybe, just maybe KISS should have called it a night after 2000 (if an Ewok had appeared anywhere in this set, I don't know what I would have done). But just go out and buy all three. Hell, you know that next year they'll find a huge way to repackage these Lord Of The Rings style anyway...