I've been waiting a long time to speak out on the third season and I must say as a hardcore transfan, it was not the best.  But have some faith, for there is a light at the end of the road. Lets get the bad out so we can then focus on the very good aspects of this collection. The one thing that totally infuriates me is the animation mistakes(you hardcore diehards know what I mean, like autobots flying, characters that are dead showing up, incorrect transformations, etc.).  It is the worst in the first five episodes of the season.  I mean doesn't make you mad? But, it was not just mistakes, some of the animation (almost half) was just bad.  Add in some crappy writing and you've got yourself a problem.  To go from the movie(which was beyond greatness and one of my favorite movies of all time) to this, it seemed to be an injustice of sorts.  I also believe that the quintesson threat was overplayed, again and again.  But if you ask me, I just can't get over the whole animation thing.  If you want to known the worst episodes of the whole season, here they are: "Starscream's Ghost", "Surprise Party", "Madman's Paradise", "Grimlocks New Brain", among a few more others(I'm a little sick of complaining so I will leave it at that).  Fortunately, the good outweighs the bad.  Out of all the characters, my favorites are the post movie transformers.  That is why "Rebirth" is one of my favorite episodes and from what I hear alot of other people like it too, which is no surprise.  So as you have guessed I am very upset that they did not continue the fourth season(I mean they still had the comic and the toys, so why not the show).  Also, the third season boasts some of  the best episodes of the entire show.  The best being: "Chaos", "Call of the Primitives", "The Ultimate Weapon", "Money Is Everything", "Ghost In the Machine", "Fight or Flee", "Dweller In the Depths", "The Return of Optimus Prime pts.1-2", "Carnage In C-Minor", "The Burden Hardest to Bare", and "Nightmare Planet". This is an excellent buy and I hope you are a little more informed about the first part of the season.  Until season three part two, farewell.