First and formost I must say: WOW!!!!!!!!! I used to work in a movie theater, and we all know, working at a movie theater means free movies. I had found out that The Notebook was going to be released, and I was excited. I had read the book a few times over the years, and couldn't wait to see the big screen adaptation. I went opening night, with my manager at the time, because she is as big of a fan of Nicholas Sparks as I am. All I can really say is I am glad I wasn't ushering that night, otherwise, I would literally be standing in a lake of tears. Of course I went right back and payed for my second ticket and watched it again.  Still the same reaction.

  To make a long story short, I ended up seeing The Notebook 4 different times, with 4 different people, and each time, I ended blochy eyed, and wearing a tear stained shirt, (and not to many guys will admit to crying during a movie). This movie was incredibly well done, the acting was more then amazing, the cinematography was gorgeous, and the music was extremly well done. All in all, all I can say about this movie, is Best Picture worthy. I urge all to go out on the release date of Feb. 8th (subject to change), and buy it, and watch it with someone you love.

  For the women (and gay guys), James Marsten is what we would call, eye candy. His acting, unfortunatly, wasn't as good as all expected, but what can you expect from someone who played cyclops.  For the men (and lesbians, can't forget them), Rachel McAdams is more then eye candy. Her preformance was more then best actress worthy. She made the audience believe that love comes as natural as sending roses on Valentine's day.

  For the older folks (and believe me, there were a LOT in the theater), James Garner and Genna Rowland were the perfect on screen couple. They made my heart melt, with every comment they made.

  In all this movie was just wonderful, and I don't think that anything bad can be said about it at all (except that it had to end).  It deserves beyond the five stars that I rated it (hint hint amazon mediators). I insist, no I demand, that you all go out and buy this movie.  Enjoy a good cry, and don't forget to have lots of tissues on hand, believe me you're gonna need them.