Song "Give In To Me" sang by Garrett Hedlund, actor in the Country Strong movie, is a 5 star performance!  I have watched and re-watched this movie, basically to be able to not only hear Garrett Hedlund sing all his songs, but OMG ... WATCH him sing. What an awesome performance and man he is so beautiful! (I know men don't like beautiful, but sorry .. he is!  I realize now he doesn't usually sing country music as a career choice, but I am an avid Country Music listener and I would GO BUY anything he sang on a record.  His voice his so moving!  In more ways than I'll explain on a public posting board.  I'll just say ... why hasn't anyone in Nashville gotten with this handsome young talented singer and give him a record deal?  Why not get him to develop Hedlund a country single with the awesome "Give In To Me" or anything else he sings?
I listened to Faith Hill's singing the song version of "Give In To Me" and man ... she sucked, big time.  She totally ruined the song and I'm amazed that she is advertising it as her "BIG COMEBACK!"  Someone needs to let her know that she needs to get another song.  I typically enjoy Faith's songs, but she blew it singing that after thousands of people fell in love with Garrett Hedlund singing that "Give In To Me!"  Geez, it was even partially played on the Today show!  Millions of hits on the internet, great going Garrett, you could NOT have done any better!  I can watch you sing that songs over and over and over.  I will just say, the CD that was re-done by the pro singers after the movie was a great disappointment!  I think the Country Industry made an error having the CD produced by people NOT in the movie singing the songs.  Gweneth, Garrett and Leighton did excellent performances and that SHOULD BE the soundtrack, not the revised version.  Believe me, people have purchased the Soundtrack CD, thinking it was done by the actual movie performers, only to be disappointed and aggravated by "who the hell is singing this?"  They should have stuck with the actual movie singers!  Dropped the ball with this one Nashville!  Debi