Let's start off this review with the following acknowledgment: many of the 'facts' in this movie are actually exaggerations. Yes, the basics of the events happened, but the drama surrounding them is largely enhanced for the viewer. This is not all that different than many other fact-based films, and it certainly in no way takes away from the quality of the film given that the most important event, the nuclear accident, is true. For me, all of the other events pale to this one, and I think it is handled brilliantly. What sets this film apart, in my eyes, from many others is that it delivers the claustrophobic terror of radiation in maddeningly effective way. The fabricated mutiny, the exaggerated differences of opinions between the captains...to focus on these things is to miss the point. If you're looking for cold hard fact enjoy the History Channel instead. This is a film, and part of what makes a good movie is entertainment.

Putting aside the fact checks, you're left with a gripping look at what a nuclear accident on a submarine is like. The cast is almost universally good, although at times it can be hard to ignore certain...breaks in accent, shall we say. Still, the performances hold and luckily the burden is shared across many capable shoulders. The crew feels like a crew, the interplay between the men coming off as natural and authentic. The captains, feuding as they are, come off as men of authority. In particular, I thought Liam Neeson projected a true sense of a fatherly affection for his men. Beyond the actors, the unfolding of the nuclear accident, and specifically the repair work, is some of the most tense and savagely dramatic work you'll see anywhere. With little ability to rely on the actors faces in their repair suits, the music and tight direction carries the invisible danger surrounding the failing reactor. Though it can be tough to watch, I admire the graphic depiction of the impact of radiation on a human being. It is jarring to see how quickly and easily one of our greatest discoveries can break us down.

In summary, if you are a submarine film fan, as I am, there's much to like here. While it's never a movie you expect to win as Oscar, it's still a highly enjoyable piece of film that has a unique p[lace in cinema as depicting the Soviet Navy as heroes rather than sinister Cold War villains. Highly recommended.