"Amarcord"--"I Remember"--just may be my single favorite Fellini film.  I love it for three reasons.

First, it's a warmly nostalgic look at the sometimes buffoonish, sometimes strange, but always lovable figures whom Fellini remembers from his childhood hometown.  I don't know how much in the film is a historically loyal depiction and how much is a cocktail of memory and imagination.  But it doesn't really matter how accurate Fellini's portraits are, because what he gives us is an ensemble of characters, from his youthful counterpart Titta, to Titta's hot-tempered father Aurelio, to his crazy "I want a woman!" uncle, to the over-aged Don Juans who still have adolscent libidos, to the unforgettable Gradisca and the hilarious town lawyer, who are charming and real.  The only other film I can think of that comes close to "Amarcord" in warm nostalgia is Woody Allen's "Radio Days."

Second, the film is genuinely funny, and sometimes absolutely, laugh-out-loud hilarious.  The buffoonish black shirts strutting through the dusty streets; the "do you touch yourself?" confession scene; the dinner scene in Titta's household; and the unforgettable scene in which Uncle Teo climbs high in a tree, throws stones, and screams for a woman.

Third:  funny as the film is, it's also got a very definite edgy message.  Mussolini's blackshirts may've been clownish, but they could also be brutal.  The Church may be comical, but it also encourages sexual repression and prolonged adolescence.  The aristocracy may be quaint, but it's also decrepit and parasitical (in the opening spring rite scene of the film, the brief visit to the local count's palace is one of the best in the whole movie).

The movie isn't without its troublesome spots.  The fantasy scenes that take place in the Grand Hotel seem out of place, and tend to rupture the smalltown ambience the rest of the film creates.  In addition, the illness of Miranda is announced too abruptly, with absolutely no preparation, and her death follows quickly.  But overall, "I Remember" is a film to remember.