These movies are both examples of the two segments of movie making that Vincent Price excelled in:  Classic Horror and Camp.
The House On Haunted Hill is classic Camp.  Take your enemies, put them together in a "Haunted house" with guns, and let the fireworks fly.  The twists and turns are amazing, and will constantly leave you guessing what will happen next.  Just trying to decide who killed who, and who is really dead is a lot of fun to watch.  And Mr. Price in his droll somber character is a hoot to watch.  He is like a dark point of reason amongst the insanity.
If you liked the Doctor Phibes movies, this movie should be very entertaining.
The Last Man On Earth is another classic.  Although it has been remade several times since then (The Omega Man and Night Of The Living Dead are the best known examples).
A disease has been passed around that kills all of mankind, except for Mr. Price.  Every night he locks himself into his house to try and keep away from the "vampires" that have killed the rest of mankind, and are trying to kill him as well.
Every day, he sets forth from his lair to hunt down and kill the vampires.  But later on in the movie, he discovers that he is not alone, and that there are some "pseudo-vampires".  These vampires are infected, but do not have the mind-robbing insanity of the common vampires.  Now Mr. Price must try and decide if these vampires should be destroyed as well, or if he should join forces with them, and together try and destroy the mindless vampires.
This is horror in the classic sense.  The tension and terror is very real, but the gore level is very low.  This is a form that is not seen anymore.  TOday's horror movies seem to have taken the "gross" aspect shortcut that this form of movie achieves with simple stark sets and chilling dialog (compare this to "Hannibal" to see what I mean).
This is a great horror movie for all ages, and even children 10 years old should be able to take it without having nightmares for weeks to come.  If you have not discovered Vincent Price yet, this is a perfect movie to start.  I can guarantee that once you see this true master in action, you will want to see him again and again.