If you like Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm, you will also like Darby O'Gill and the Little People.  Unlike the videotape version, which is blurry and almost unwatchable, the DVD version is crystal clear and as sharp any contemporary television program.

The story is excellent for kids.  For example, it shows a leprechaun being changed into a rabbit, mountainsides spontaneously opening up where inside can be found dancing leprechauns and treasure chests spilling over with gold coins, and domestic family scenes.

Darby O'Gill and the Little People is set in a small Irish town.  Darby O'Gill is an old widower who likes to pass the time telling stories at the pub, to the delight and disbelief of others. As long as town priest Father Murphy isn't around, Darby spins yarns about the little people who he has encountered at a hilltop known as Knocknasheega. Meanwhile, Katie, his daughter, is content to take care of things at home, and insists she doesn't have time or great desire for a love.

One day Lord Fitzpatrick arrives in town and delivers the news that Darby is to be replaced as caretaker of the Lord's estate. Rather than upset his daughter with the word of his retirement, Darby tells her that the caretaker-to-be is merely helping with some house work. That man is Michael MacBride, a polite, young fellow who feels that Darby should let his daughter in on things.  (This man is Sean Connery, years before he was transformed into James Bond.)

Darby has another task in mind. He's to ride into the next town and bring back the new church bell for Father Murphy. At night, while he's trying to get his horse, he falls down the well atop Knocknasheega and plummets down the well and into the world of leprechauns.

Here, a wonderland sequence depicts Darby amongst countless leprechauns. Darby encounters the legendary King Brian Connors  the 5,000-year-old leprechaun monarch (just under two feet tall). King Brian explains that Darby has been brought to their world as a favor, allowing him to escape the disappointing early retirement he faces in the other world.  This scene is accompanied by Irish fiddle music, fiddling with a velocity worthy of Art Arfons, Mickey Thompson, or Craig Breedlove.

The leprechauns can only work their magic when it's dark out, and while a leprechaun will grant you three wishes, making a fourth wish negates the three before. General merriment ensues as Darby plays the fiddle and the leprechauns do hundreds of heel clicks and assorted clogging steps.  The music, supplied by fiddles and pipes, is a wonder to behold.

In another scene, Darby tricks the King into staying with him all night, in an episode where Darby and the King exchange dozens of silly rhymes.  The exchange of rhymes occurs in a barn, and a nearby horse engages in more amusing expressions than a trained chimpanzee, a feature of the film sure to amuse every kid.  Another highlight, is that Darby teases the King by allowing a cat to chase the King about the barn, and the King hides behind the spokes of a wagon wheel to protect himself, the spokes resembling a jail cell.  The King and Darby resume their laughing exchange of silly poems, but once the rooster crows at dawn, and the sun comes out, the King has lost his powers (e.g., to jump through doorways) and Darby succeeds in capturing the King and puts him into a bag.  Then Darby demands his three wishes.

Darby and King Brian battle wits, respectively trying to make the most and least of the three wishes. Darby decides that his best plan is to make one wish and keeps King Brian captive until he can decide on the last two. (The above partial summary, was inspired from a synopsis found on ultimatedisney.com.)