I grew up with Kenshin as my hero. I remember loving the small heartfelt filler of the first season, then being brought to tears as my ten year old mind fought with its own morality in the climax of the second. No matter how hilarious and light the series got there was always the backdrop of something much more complex, and that's what gave the series weight and validity. The series had a heart to it which few anime have ever achieved. It never over simplified the problem, it acknowledged the true ambiguity of the matters it displayed, and then the thing that pushed it over the edge was that the main characters pushed forward against what was wrong amidst all of the ambiguity. There was a line at the end of the second season where Kenshin admits that while Shishio and his ideology were definitely evil, Shishio though it was the right thing to do, and all we can do is follow what we think is right.
  This heart was wielded carelessly and without regard for just how beautiful it was often in the series, but it was still there in a subtle capacity. The series always second guessed it just enough to make you wonder whether it was still there. And then they would always give you a glimpse in the climax. Reflections indulges in openly displaying only the heart of the series, and wielding the full weight and connotations of the characters we've come to love. It faces the moral problems openly, and shows that Kenshin's life was not a righteous one. That peace for someone such as him is impossible, he knew that as long as he was alive he could probably save a life somewhere, that his only hope of ever dying a respectful death would be if every second was spent towards others, he had the responsibility of every life in the world on his shoulders. It was the thing that made the character interesting, he could never rest. And that ultimately there was nothing morally right about this self imposed burden, it was the kind of affliction described as insanity. And reflection takes the time to articulate this, and then watch him fall, continually. And that only in dying could he ever be freed of this burden. Reflections articulates this perfectly, if you have seen the series for what it is, you will be tearful by the end.