It isn't so much that Diamonds are Forever is bad, it's just that it's clearly the worst of the Connery Bond films. It does have a few good qualities. Shirley Bassey's singing of the decvent title song being one of them, Connery's usual professionalism and talent being another, but overall it's quite silly and inconsequential. The kind of people who like this one are generally those uncomplicated sorts who get confused easily and prefer their films to be as shallow as possible, so all they have to do is sit there passively and not think or get involved in the film. The fact that this Bond is essentially the true beginning of the Roger Moore era is a big part of the problem with this film. Like I said, it's silly. The distinctly unremarkable chase scene with Bond in the cheapo looking moon buggy is an example of this, as is the abundance of bad Bond-style quips, which seemed to comprise half of Roger Moore's dialogue and takes up way too much of Connery's here. I mean, there's nothing wrong with fun, but there IS a limit, you know, especially when the "fun" is as low rent and shallow as it is here. But, like I said, there are plenty of reasons to like this Bond. The actors are all-around decent, it isn't their fault that the characters are so uninteresting. Nothing seems developed, there's no sense of spy-type espionage action here, which should be the centerpiece of every Bond film, otherwise why make one. The main Bond girl being playued by Jill St. John is another drawback. Not that there's anything wrong with her, it's just that her "type" doesn't seem right in conjunction with Bond. There's just nothing exotic about Jill St. John, as decent as she is her presence lends a sitcommy atmosphere to everything. The fact that this story mainly unfold in Vegas is another problem. Vegas is the land of chintz and cheese, shiny superficial glamor with little substance. It does lend Jill St. John's presence some meaninging, as she pretty much seems to be just the type of woman that James Bond would meet up with in Vegas. The entire film just seems way too... American. I guess you could say that Diamonds are Forever, for whatever good you may find in it, is really the nail in the coffin for the whole series. After this, it could pretty much only be a parody of its former self. There just isn't ANY room in the world for a James Bond from the 1970's onward.