Until watching this movie, I had no idea that the largest counterfeiting operation of all time was carried out by prisoners in a Nazi concentration camp.  They were assigned to forge pounds and dollars, in order to undermine the Allied economy and finance the Nazi war effort.  They ended up printing over 100 million pounds sterling, which even the Bank of England could not distinguish from the genuine article.  On the other hand, as a result of stalling tactics, they didn't crack the dollar until the war was almost over and it no longer made any difference.

This movie is a fictionalized version of this story.  Prisoners with relevant skills are brought in to a special, top-secret area in a concentration camp, where in contrast to the appalling conditions elsewhere, they are provided with sufficient food, decent beds, time for breaks, etc.  But if they don't produce results, they will be shot.  Sorowich, a master counterfeiter, is brought in to take charge of the counterfeiting operation.  Burger, one of the other workers on the operation, wants to sabotage the operation, so as to hamper the Nazi war effort.  This view is not popular among the other workers, who do not feel like dying for this cause, just so that other workers can be brought in to do the job for them.  Much of the movie is a dramatization of this moral argument.  The end result is to delay the production of the dollar just enough.  The protagonist is Sorowich, who initially just wants to save his skin, and also has a personal longing to crack the dollar, but eventually sort of comes around to the other point of view.

The movie is very well done.  The acting is excellent, especially the actors who play Sorowich, and Herzog, the boss of the concentration camp.  One is really immersed in the concentration camp, which is quite scary, although not nearly as gruesome as it could be since we are in the elite section.

The bonus features are worth watching and tell more about the true story on which the movie is based.  For example, in reality, only two people knew about the sabotage, unlike in the movie where for dramatic purposes lots of people knew about it so that they could argue about it on screen.