'Semi-Pro is the latest Will Farrell film, in which he plays Jackie Moon, the owner, coach and power forward of the fictional Flint Tropics basketball team in the American Basketball Association (ABA). He was also a disco singer who had one hit, called 'Love Me Sexy' and he insists on playing the song to death throughout the movie. Anyways, the Flint Tropics happen to be the worst team in the ABA (sound familiar yet?), mostly due to Jackie's lack of direction. It is soon revealed that the ABA will cease to exist and only 4 teams will be merged into the National Basketball Association (NBA). When Jackie finds out that his team will not be integrated into the NBA, he attempts to whip his team into shape. With the help of former Kentucky Colonels player Ed Monix (Woody Harrelson), Jackie plans to push the Tropics to victory, and into the NBA.

What follows is your typical heartfelt, underdog sports story (with the Will Farrell brand of comedy of course). If you've ever seen 'Blades of Glory' or 'Dodgeball' or any of the other numerous underdog sports films then you know exactly how this film will turn out. The ending doesn't turn out exactly as the aforementioned films do, but there are enough similarities in this movie that its hard not to draw comparisons. The jokes run the usual gamot, with potty, genital and sexual jokes being at the forefront. To be quite honest most of the jokes feel way too outdated to be funny; I seem to remember similar punch lines in Farrell's previous outings. Farrel gives the impression that he is merely giving us a phoned in performance, but being that he's been making the same movies since Anchorman I don't blame him. The supporting actors are decent, though nothing really stands out aside from Andre 3000, who seems to be getter better at acting. Even Harrelson seems like he's nonplussed to be appearing in this mediocre film, and his performance reeks of lazy. Will Arnett (Arrested Development) plays an alcoholic sports play by play announcer, however he feels rather underused here. Every single joke he throws out is un-funny.

I watched this movie not expecting to enjoy it, and honestly there wasn't really a funny joke to be found. Will Farrell, one of the more successful of the SNL alumni has found his niche and he is running with it no matter how atrocious and stale the end result may be. He just keeps pumping out the same jokes and the same routine over and over, and we keep eating it up. If you are a Farrell fan then purchasing this film is probably a no-brainer, but if you are sick of his usual shtick like I am you may just want to rent this one.

As far as this Blu Ray edition is concerned, the theatrical cut and the 'Lets get sweaty' unrated cut are featured on one disc, while a second disc houses a load of special features. The differences between the two versions of the film are negligible.  The special features are your usual  comedy special feature fare, nothing too great.

The picture quality is decent; 'Semi-Pro' isn't going to turn any heads but its a step above the Standard DVD. Colors are rather vivid and blacks  are deep and realistic. Detail is present but very inconsistent, and there is a fair bit of grain spiking in some scenes. Since this is a comedy with rather bland 70's colors I didn't except demo material, but 'Semi-pro' looks pretty good. As far as the audio is concerned, 'Semi-Pro' comes with a 7.1 mix, though the subject material never fully utilizes it.

I'm sure this isn't the last of the 'underdog' films, and certainly not the last Ferrell underdog film. I really wish it was, because these movies are getting really tiresome.

Movie Quality - 2/5
Picture Quality - 4/5
Audio Quality - 3/5
Special Features - 1/5