Some of you may reasonably assume that you can't go wrong with a movie that only costs 99 cents. Well, you are wrong. Ryan Reynolds, as always, is pretty bad as an actor. However, the script and the plot don't help him at all. The film has to many cliches like a cell phone that works, but then doesn't work at the just the right moments, people that put him on hold, etc. For some reason, he is equipped with a lighter, a pen, an empty wallet, and a cell phone. I hear that he has other things in the coffin with him, but I couldn't watch anymore of the film. Most of us would realize that there is a limited supply of air in a coffin, but Reynolds keeps lighting the lighter to make phone calls. The cell phone provides its own light, so why use a lighter every time you make a call? This is one of the many puzzling things that I noticed during the short time that I watched. Also, I can understand that any person would panic if they found themselves locked in a coffin and buried in Iraq of all places, but some things really don't make sense. As a military contractor, he doesn't realize that the U.S. government won't pay ransoms for captured personnel. Also, he seems to want to antagonize everyone he calls to get help. On one call someone asks him for his social security number. He gets angry and starts asking why they want it instead of simply giving it to the person. I mean, how else are they going to be able to identify you as the appropriate person (he lost the security number that was given to him by the contract company). I don't know about you, but if I was given an emergency number to use in case something happened while working in Iraq during a war, I would make sure I memorized it, tattooed it on my skin, and do whatever else I could to make sure it is available in case something happened. In the end, .99 cents is way too much to pay for this movie. I would have been a lot more upset if I paid full price at the movies theatre, but it is just .99. I could have gotten something from the .99 menu at my local fast food joint. A chocolate Frosty feel kind of good right now.