A boy of humble origins. A girl of aristocratic lineage. They bond as young ones, they are separated. He becomes a gifted illusionist. She becomes the beautiful, strong-minded woman a crown prince needs to complete his particular ambitions for power. The illusionist performs, and suddenly, the city is under his spell. Is it real, what he does? Or it is just tricks? And will the Chief Inspector of Police be able to contain the growing danger, the political and social and personal repercussions, of the illusionist's actions, which increasingly incite treasonous (if true) accusations from his captivated audiences?

The game is on, and it's on at many levels, personal and social and in the very palaces of power.

The ending is, well, look at the title of the movie, watch the film,  and take a wild guess at how it ends. You may be right, as I was. No surprise.

And yet, some pleasure. Quite a bit of pleasure. Even my hard to enthrall hubby sat through the whole thing and didn't once say, "Gee, how long is this thing anyway?" as he usually does when I put on a DVD. :)

I like Edward Norton. I find his odd looks interesting, and I enjoy his acting talent. I find him versatile and with an air of depth about him that adds quite a bit to his dramatic endeavors, even when they are small, like his part in FRIDA. The man stands out for me.

Jessica Biel surprised me. I'd only seen in her in one other, hardly satisfying film, the third in the BLADE series, so to see her convincingly elegant and intense (if not particularly brilliant) was a special and unexpected treat.

Rufus Sewell has done royalty before (Charles II), and he has done bad boys before. He's got a sort of ferocity behind those eyes (one somewhat wall-eyed, which adds to the air of oddity) and he can act, for sure. He has a masculine power that makes him believable as a sadistic exploiter of women.

But Paul Giamatti. Wow. I wouldn't have imagined this almost non-descript, unsexy guy could steal a movie, but steal it he does, right out from Norton's and Sewell's much more attractive noses. He's a complex character, walking that line between corruption and integrity, and that's always fascinating to watch, much more interesting than a mere good guy or a mere bad guy. Delightful. And the series of expressions on his face at the end, when he figures out what happens (for himself, for the audience) is a marvel to behold.

The cinematography, the use of dark/light, the occasional startling use of red, the music, all these make for a terrific visual ride. One can forgive the giving of too many clues that ruin the surprise just for the fact that it's delicious to sit and watch these images unfold.

And Norton manages to move beautifully as the illusionist--the hands, especially. He convinces me that he is what he is.

The tricks are always fun to watch. I"m not so jaded that I can't have fun with it. Or the director and actors just make it fun. Whatever.

Great tension (sexual and otherwise) between actors, and a bit of romance (love that first kiss, ahhh), and a glimpse at the power of people who will not be cowed by the powerful and corrupt.

I recommend it for the above reasons.