I first heard about this film way back in the summer of 2001, and had been itching to see it for a whole year 'til I finally saw it in theaters exactly a year ago. And I must say it not only met my expectations, but it exceeded them. I was so afraid that I had hyped this movie up too much in my head, but I assure you I was NOT disappointed. Excellent directing on Sam Mendes' part, beautiful cinematography from Conrad Hall, and a magnificent and haunting score by the talented Thomas Newman (that I happened to buy weeks in advance of even seeing the film when it was first released!) And we most certainly can't leave out the superb acting by the very talented Tom Hanks, Paul Newman, Daniel Craig, and of course Jude Law.
I wasn't sure if I could buy Tom Hanks playing "a bad guy" in a movie, but he actually surprised me. I had been so used to seeing him in these roles as conflicted regular guys, and I wasn't sure I could picture him as a cold-blooded killer. But I think he pulled off the character marvelously.
I've never really seen Paul Newman's work before this film, so I can't compare him to anything else. But I must say I do think he did a great job at portraying ol' man Rooney. I have to say the same for Daniel Craig. I never really saw his work before this (except in Tomb Raider, but he wasn't too memorable in that). I think he *really* stood out in this film. Much more than in Tomb Raider. And newcomer Tyler Hoechlin I was actually impressed with. I kinda just wrote him off as being just another new young actor with real no acting ability before seeing his performance, and I'll admit I was surprised. I'd say he did very well for his first big film with so many Hollywood heavyweights.
And to save the best for last, Jude Law. One word can sum up his performance: FANTASTIC. I've known for years that he's a very talented and versatile actor, and when I heard he'd be playing a disturbed crime scene photographer who moonlights as a hitman, I could not wait to see him in this film. I knew he would be perfect for the part, and I knew he would bring such an incredible and enormous presence to the movie. My only complaint is that his total screen time probably only equals about 20 minutes, 25 tops. I really think he made Maguire interesting and appealing enough to have the storyline delve into some more character development on his part. But instead he was just kind of on the sidelines, which I wish he wasn't. I really would've liked to see his character play a bigger part in this movie. He was just so great to watch. But I do realize that the story wasn't focused on his character, so *shrugs*.
All in all, wonderful film. A very nice comeback from Sam Mendes after winning the Oscar for 'American Beauty' 2 years prior.
As for the DVD, it's a little skimpy on the extra features, but not bad. It's got some interesting deleted scenes, excellent director commentary, and an HBO first look documentary. If you've seen this movie before, but weren't sure if you wanted to invest in buying the DVD, I say it's worth it.