Femme Fatale is probably De Palma's most controversial film.  It is truly a love-it or hate-it film.  Critics were almost totally split on the film.  A lot thought it was a total piece of trash, others thought it was a masterpiece of neo-noir filmmaking.  Heck, this movie even somewhat split De Palma's most loyal fans down the middle.  One thing is for sure: Femme Fatale proved to me once and for all that Brian De Palma is one of the most fearless and talented directors that Hollywood ever has seen or ever will see.

The film's opening is definitely is strongest point.  It opens with a 20-minute diamond heist at the Cannes Film Festival in France.  This sequence is low on dialogue and high on style.  De Palma does an amazing job of keeping the viewer's absolute attention to every detail (even though we still get some surprises at the end).  Rebecca Romijn-Stamos plays one of the thiefs, Laure Ash.  The heist goes wrong (don't they always?) and Laure gets away with the diamonds.  Thanks to a convenient case of mistaken identity, Laure is able to switch identities with a French woman, but not before a spying paparazzo (Antonio Banderas) takes her picture from his balcony.  The film then jumps ahead seven years, and Laure is back in Paris, but this time as a completely different person, the wife of the American Ambassador to France.  The trouble is, the photog is still there, too.  Once a photo of Laure is released, the demons from her past come to the forefront, and the movie takes us on its twisting, downhill track to a crazy, mind-blowing final 20 minutes that will either make you flip off the TV or scream, "I love Brian De Palma!"  For me, it was the latter.

I think this film is absolutely De Palma's most daring film, and one of his most interesting screenplays.  As with all De Palma's, you will either love or hate this movie, but one this is for sure: it will definitely evoke a reaction from all its viewers, and De Palma is one of the few guys who can be relied on for that these days.