Sorry - usually I "live and let live" ... and I agree that all should have and express their own opinion - but c'mon, Amazon! Where did you dig up this Marshall Fine, who provides your official review on this product?

I don't get it - did his medication not kick in before writing this review? I am trying not to out-and-out attack him in text ... but it ain't easy!

On the subject of this movie - he is WAY off. Please IGNORE AMAZON'S OFFICIAL REVIEW and read the comments of the "rank and file" who have seen the movie. You will see a solid wall of people who reject Mr. Fine's interpretation of this film. Or just look at the Average Customer Review!

I consider my tastes in humor very refined. First of all, I am not a big fan of "toilet humor". And even though this film sometimes dips slightly in that direction, it remains one of my favorite comedies of all time.

Martin is at his stuffy best and Candy at his socially inept best. The two of them, forced to interact, provide some of the funniest moments ever set to film. As far as buddy pics go, only Lemmon and Matthau did it better.

I can't say I really appreciated alot of stuff that John Candy did. I thought it was very lowbrow and repetitive, derivative of better stuff from the likes of John Belushi (and even lesser stuff from Chris Farley).

However, in this film, he just blew me away! He shows talents in this movie that i wish I had seen more of, including several unexpected and satisfying turns into solid drama. We've seen this overbearing oaf character of his before --- but this time around, you will actually sympathize with that character.

Plus - this must be said - the last five minutes of this movie is so exquisitely performed and edited and scored ... that it NEVER fails to turn me (a burly forty-something man) into a happily slobbering mess. A shocking secret is laid bare with just a few words --- and everything that has come before it is given a new light.

If the last few minutes of this movie doesn't at least bring a lump to your throat - sorry, but you have no soul. :) It is one of the finest and most satisfying movie endings OF ALL TIME - in my book, it ranks right up there with Spielberg or Capra at their best.

The final freeze-frame of this movie is burned indelibly into my brain. I will never forget what a solid talent John Candy could be from this one shot alone. I cannot look at it without tearing up.

I realize I'm probably coming off as over-passionate about this ... but PLEASE IGNORE MR. FINE'S REVIEW! Buy this movie as a solid addition to your comedy collection, or at least rent it elsewhere. I promise, you will not be disappointed!

PARENTAL ADVISORY: Believe it or not, despite the R rating, it is a great family film! However, when you see Steve Martin throw his suitcase to the ground in the airport parking lot and stomp his way back to the car rental place ... um, turn the sound down for the following scene ... or clear the kids out of the room.

What follows is pretty much the ONLY reason the movie carries an "R" rating. Martin drops the F-bomb about 15 times in a single tirade. It is a hilarious scene and well-justified, but it must have been a difficult and courageous decision to include this scene, since cutting it out would've automatically given this movie a PG rating. With the sole exception of this scene, the rest of the movie is surprisingly family-friendly.

(PREVIOUS ENDING EDITED OUT: As the replies indicate, I misidentified an actor in this movie so I've edited it out, May 2009.)