Michael Mann's 'Manhunter (1986)' is heavily embedded in the (now) unfashionable 80's milieu. Personally, I have a soft spot for everything associated with the 80's: be it mohawks, synth music, pastel colors etc. So the 80's ambiance didn't bother me as it seems to have contemporary viewers, who find it 'cheesy' and 'dated'.

If you get past that, this is quite an engaging thriller. For one, its beautifully photographed: cinematographer Dante Spinotti has framed it meticulously with striking colors and inspired lighting (Francis Dollarhyde's sickly green-hued house, Hannibal Lector's sterile white cell). Sure, it looks like a Miami Vice episode, but it was made at a time when director Michael Mann (and the rest of America) was riding high on the 'Miami Vice aesthetic'; the pastel color palette, the clothing and specially the music is very indicative of the era. 'Manhunter' has some enthralling set-pieces, but on the whole it feels awkward; maybe some scenes should have been cut, as they seemed to intrude rather than intrigue the viewer. On the acting department, William Petersen playing the distraught, haunted FBI detective Will Graham is great--each gesture, each word from him is convincing. Brian Cox as Hannibal Lector is subtle, slyly menacing (the scene where he lies his way through the telephone to get Will Graham's home address is noteworthy); Tom Noonan, though physically intimidating, comes across a bit hokey--he's not all bad, the 'betrayal' scene is great, but he failed to make a lasting psychopathic presence--mostly he comes across as a lonely 'gentle giant'.

The ending, as many have said before me, is a bit anti-climatic--I don't know whether it was a conscious decision on Mann's part or the fact that the production ran out of money towards the end (Mann was left with a skeleton crew when filming the final show-down at Dollarhyde's house), but I had the feeling of being let down and cheated. A second-viewing made me appreciate it a little more, though the feeling lingers that 'Manhunter (1986)' had the potential to be so much more.