First off, this is a CLASSIC MOVIE, its animation is not THE BEST, i.e. if you compare it to the cream of the crop in the animation world, and I wouldn't expect it to be, infact I would dearly hope so, since this movie is like more than a DECADE OLD, i.e. this is a classic, in the sense that  it is one of the animes that started it all. Vampire hunter D was the movie  that started me on anime and for good reason. It showed me the  possibilities that anime presented, that american movies couldn't  supply.
First off, if you check your local vampire section for decent  movies, you'll come up with one, and that one is Interview with a Vampire.  You may also find something called "Kindred" which is a  television series and expands on vampires, but it doesn't do it on their  myths, like Vampire Hunter D does. Vampire Hunter D, since it is an anime,  is able to paint a picture of a world in Torment, making it theasable that  this could truly be a world, where goblins, vampires, and werewolves could  thrive and do.
NOW THE STORY The story basicaly starts off with a girl  Getting bit by the head vampire that lives in a castle just outside of the  village. Next, we see a shot of D(formaly known as Vampire Hunter D, and by  the end of the movie, you'll know what D stands for even if you only know  just a little bit about vampires, but if you don't...oh boy) on his robotic  horse. For this story is not based in the past, but in the distant future.  Some how, the girl peeks D's interest about vampires, being that she was  bitten and he has a vengance to kill them, though not all of them...
It  also seems that D has a certain curse/gift, that we know not where, how, or  why he has it. But this movie does keep you interested. Plot, yes, but  being this is a monster movie, it has done splendidly well. A notch done  from Interview with a Vampire, but a definite notch or two up from anything  else out there.
THE REALLY IMPORTANT THING TO REMEMBER I have probably seen this movie 3-5 times. D is such a  cool character, since he is so gothic(we ain't talkin about spikes), a  gentleman, and... he's the kinda person you wish your son would grow up  like, swaping the vampire hunting with a good job. That reminds me, his  whole suit of clothes fit him perfectly, actually everyone is made  perfectly, I love it.
FINALLY You will be starving for more and curious  about unanswered questions, well here's something to know, unless  somethings been changed without my knowledge, they are making a second  vampire hunter d!