By 1988 "Doctor Who" was a show with a long enough history that it could time travel into its own past, and yet a fine enough show that it could do so and still be fresh and engaging rather than musty. "Remembrance of the Daleks" brings the Doctor and his relatively new companion Ace back to the old London junkyard where it all started back in 1963, and countless little continuity references and in-jokes pepper the story throughout its four episodes. Sometimes this can bog a story down and be confusing for new viewers, but here anyway these pitfalls are avoided--though they cleverly add an extra level of significance for the long-time viewer, they are pretty much unobtrusive so that the story flows coherently without an encyclopedic knowledge of "Doctor Who" lore. Except for the biggest continuity reference of all, the Doctor's arch-enemies (also vintage 1963) the remembrance of whom give this storyline its title. They require a little explanation, and that's exactly what the viewer gets in the first episode as the Doctor recaps for Ace more than two decades of Dalek background in a few seconds laced with hilarious comedy while hurtling down the road in a "borrowed" military van. And so a plot device that could've been static, stale, and boring is in fact ingeniously rendered dynamic, fresh, and engaging for old-timer and newbie alike. Just one more example of why the longest-running sci-fi series on our planet just never gets old.

Actually, the Daleks are really at their best here in a way we haven't seen for a long while, and not just because of the revamped special effects making their death rays look more deadly and finally granting them full conquest of the staircase obstacle (which made the poor devils seem so ineffectual back in "Destiny of the Daleks"). In fact, I suspect their recovered evil luster is probably related to the fact that the withering presence of Davros is absent until his disappointing and slightly anti-climatic appearance in the last episode, his last diminishing return in the show's history (knock on wood!). No, for the vast majority of the story the Daleks are the principle villains--two warring factions of them, in fact, which adds a wicked twist to an old tune while picking up the melody where "Revelation of the Daleks" left off. But Imperial or Renegade, the Daleks are again portrayed as ruthless and deadly, manipulating human victims through mechanical implants when not exterminating them dead on sight and without warning, and all according to their own malevolent initiative and according to their own sinister masterplan. Once again the Daleks really feel like a serious menace, and the story is superbly thrilling as a result. The special-weapons Dalek is also a nice touch, though he's a bit heavy-handed--um, well, heavy-turreted rather.

More to the point, this is indubitably a "Dalek" story rather than merely a story featuring the Daleks. What I mean is that the characteristic xenophobia of the Daleks is seriously foregrounded on multiple levels, both as their primary motivation as characters--even their internecine warfare is due to the fact that "they hate each other's chromosomes"--and as the overall theme of the storyline, the point of the tale as it were. Daleks, such sublimely logical creatures and yet their actions are motivated by that most irrational of urges: hatred of those different from themselves. For this they will conquer, enslave, and murder without pity. Kind of sounds like human beings on a bad day, doesn't it, and many aspects of the plotline and script explore the "Dalek" in us all, and yet cleverly within the specific historical context of British society in the 1960's. That such is the overarching theme of "Remembrance" is signaled to the attentive viewer in a rather magnificently subtle fashion by a dramatic pre-title sequence (somewhat unusual for the show's format during its classic run): you see a close-up shot of the Earth in its entirety while hearing 1960's radio waves emanating from our globe into space, the first of which goes "Our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this small planet, we all breathe the same air, and we all cherish our children's future..." and goes on to Martin Luther King's famous "I have a dream" speech even as a Dalek spacecraft lumbers menacingly into view "Star Destroyer" style, closing in on its blue-green target. Positively chilling. This is one thing great science fiction always does: explore the human through the alien, the familiar through the fantastic, the present through the future. This is also a hallmark of "Doctor Who" throughout the years, one big reason why we can look past lame special effects and minor flaws time and time again and enjoy this show year after year.

Of course another reason the show never gets old is that the Doctor regenerates time and time again, giving the main character a new face and style each time and giving a new actor a chance to craft his own spin on our favorite centuries-old vagabond of a renegade Time Lord. "Remembrance of the Daleks" in fact marks the opening of Sylvester McCoy's second season in the role, but still it's the earliest story of his tenure to make it to DVD thus far. What are we to make of his take on the Doctor? How are we to judge the Doctor in his seventh incarnation? Well, maybe the high quality of his enemies gives him a boost here, but this here seems to be the real...oh never mind, that's a wretchedly predictable pun, but still true in so far as it goes. He has a masterful ("doctorful"?) grasp of the character's underlying personality traits, magnifying many of them while giving them all his own particular imprint: Delightfully eccentric, bumblingly curious, wonderfully arrogant, deeply ethical but not ostentatiously so, sarcastically compassionate, highly irreverent, likeably alien--a goofy mastermind ("doctormind"? okay okay enough) starkly out of place and yet cozily right at home anywhere and anywhen he goes. McCoy's timing and delivery are often spot on, too, convincingly making sudden shifts from comedic to serious mode and back again. At his most deeply serious, there's what I now personally consider a mostly overlooked high point of the show's long history, a deeply reflective scene with him at a late-night cafe chatting with the guy at the register about the course of history and cause & effect and all, meditating (as we realize later) on the enormity and potential consequences of what he's preparing to effect through the most cunningly poker-faced guile: the total and utter extermination of the Daleks along with their entire solar system. I never thought that the fourth Doctor's classic "Have I the right?" scene from "Genesis of the Daleks" might have anything close to a rival, but what that one accomplishes on an dramatically epic scale this one does in a hauntingly quiet register that's almost (almost, I say) as effective and in some ways more moving actually. "Every large decision creates ripples," he comments thoughtfully, and yet this time, this time thank goodness, the Doctor doesn't hesitate!