It's hard to know where to begin, since this is one film that is so excellent, that one is actually left in awe.  Maybe one had to have been alive, even as a child in the early fifties to appreciate this film, but I hope that isn't the case.

The actors/actressess are perfect for the characters they played, and I appreciated the way the doubting or worried aspects of what Edward R. Murrow wanted to do was felt by the higher ups at CBS and even ALCOA.  Since I think many people who see the movie for the first time will not know that even into the sixties, certain shows on television were underwritten by one company via their ads.  So it wasn't as if Murrow/CBS could look for new advertisers since ALCOA was the advertiser for the show.

George Clooney is good as Fred W. Friendly, whom I enjoyed when he hosted PBS shows on free speech and the constitution. David Strathairn is so on target as Edward R. Murrow  I had to remind myself this was a movie and he was an actor playing the part.  Murrows specials on television had a profound effect on me as a child and probably played a bigger role in me developing a deep empathy for those less fortunate than I was/am and becoming a walk the talk person that I am today.

Frank Langella, plays CBS head William Paley so well and allows the viewer a wee glimpse into the roller coaster ride of emotions internally and externally Paley must have been enduring. Again one needs reminders that this was the fifties decades before 24hr news and instant responding to news stories.

Patricia Clarkson and Robert Downey Jr. are excellent as the secretly married couple  Shirley and Joe Wershba  working in the Murrow group at a time when CBS like many companies didn't allow in house dating or married couples.  I liked their characters because its nice to be reminded of what it was like in the 50's for couples who fell in love at CBS and other top corporations.

And I appreciated the newsman that Ray Wise played  Don Hollenbeck because it reminded me of news stories I read in the newspaper as a child, where I would have to stop reading and ask my parents what words meant. Thankfully they never discouraged me from hearing or reading the truth, so I knew of people who had 'died' or had been black listed due to rumors that destroyed their lives.  Don Hollenbeck's wife left and his life was in a mess, because of rumors. Like those spread when the Robert Downing Jr. character Joe Wershba was handed a plain manilla envelope outside the Senate office by one of Senator Joseph McCarthy's errand men.  The purpose was to try and frighten CBS and Murrow into silence by concocting a story that Murrow and others at CBS had been either red or pink, and thus were doing the enemies work.

The cinematography in black and white and how realistic it is in allowing the story to flow seamless with never heavy dead zones that allow the viewers mind to wander.  Then there are the real news reel pieces of Senator Joseph McCarthy and how it was his own words that brought him down, but also his own words and actions that struck fear and loathing into so many Americans.  This is the part of the movie with Murrows comments and questions along with the real Senator Joseph McCarthy words and news reels that cause one pause in 2006.  A real wake up call for those willing to shut up and listen.

By using real news footage of Senator Joseph McCarthy rather than an actor, the producers and director allowed the viewer to see and hear firsthand what the Senator was saying and doing, whereas using an actor and putting words into his mouth would or could have resulted in criticism that the movie makers were making things up to make either Senator Joseph McCarthy or some present day politicians look or sound bad.  By using real news footage of Senator Joseph McCarthy one saw and heard the real deal.

An added treat is Diane Reeves singing 50's jazz favorites whose words match so well to the dialogue that preceded her singing. That's a sign of a well thought out and planned movie to me.  Its these small elements that when blended with the bigger elements make for a movie that makes many peoples top favorite movies.

Equally interesting and on par with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's warnings about the United States becoming an industrial military complex, were the musings of Murrow and even Paley about what viewers would sit still for.  The concern was that viewers wanted more entertainment, but Murrow insisted that an occasional reminder of civics and constitutional issues would be welcomed.

Thus the movie again reminds me of some of my favorite Murrow quotes. 'We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. When the loyal opposition dies, I think the soul of America dies with it', 'We cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home', 'Seldom, if ever, has a war ended leaving the victors with such a sense of uncertainty and fear -- with such a realization that the future is obscure and that survival is not assured' and  'Just once in a while let us exalt the importance of ideas and information' .