Another fine edition to the Criterion Collection, director Paul Verhoeven's 1987 "Robocop" functions on many different levels, not only as a very entertaining science fiction movie, but also as a piece of social satire.  Verhoeven and screenwriters Michael Miner and Edward Neumeier surely had the ability to see into the future, as the world they envisioned has, in many ways, come true.
Old Detroit, the near future.  The city is terrorized by a gang of thugs, headed by Clarence Boddicer ("That 70's Show" Kurtwood Smith) and his men.  The city has decided to turn over the operation of the police department to the OCP corporation.
Enter cop Alex Murphy (Peter Weller), freshly transferred to the Old Detroit police department.  Partnered with Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen), Murphy and Lewis hit the streets.
An encounter with Boddicer and his boys leaves Murphy, well, dead.  Enter smarmy OCP executive Bob Morton (Miguel Ferrer), who has been developing a program to create a cyborg cop.  Murphy becomes his guinea pig and "Robocop" is born.
Much of the social satire and humor Verhoeven interjects into the movies comes in the form of in-movie television broadcasts, the sort of which are common now, on CNN, MSNBC and the like.  Smiling reporters dish out daily doses of sex and violence to the masses.
The story is essentially the robot Murphy's regaining of his humanity.  His creators erase his memory, or so they think, until Murphy begins to experience flashbacks from his former life, including memories of his death, which leads him on a search to avenge his death.  His search takes him back to OCP as he confronts the man who was responsible for his death.
As submitted to the MPAA, "Robocop" was going to be awarded with the dreaded "X" rating for violence.  The Criterion Collection release of "Robocop" restores Verhoeven's original vision, which is a few seconds here and there of blood and gore.  While the film is indeed violent, the bloodshed is certainly tame by today's standards -- Verhoeven's "Starship Troopers," released in 1997, is much bloodier and violent than "Robocop" and it received an "R" rating.  
The transfer, while non-anamorphic, is still very good; the film is presented in 1.85:1 widescreen.  There are two audio tracks, a Dolby Digital 2.0 track and commentary track.  The commentary is lifted from the laserdisc edition of "Robocop," and is an entertaining discussion with Verhoeven, his writers, and others involved in the production.
Until "Robocop" gets the special edition DVD treatment, this Criterion version is worth hunting down.  "I'd buy that for a dollar!"