Hilary Swank has won the Academy Award (Boys Don't Cry) and is nominated this year (Million Dollar Baby).  However, her performance of Alice Paul in the HBO made for television movie, Iron Jawed Angels is as impressive as any work that she has previously done.  Other supporting actresses include Anjelica Huston, Julia Ormond, and Brooke Smith, along with Patrick Dempsey and Frances O'Connor.  They, too, add to a fantastic show.  Director Katja von Garnier beautifully captures the characters of these women.  Furthermore, the storyline is fast-paced and exciting

  The movie arouses deep thought and emotion.  "Personally, I don't know how a woman could see this movie and not want to vote," said a female voter when she viewed it on Presidential Election Day 2004. The movie is about the lives of the 20th century suffragists with special focus on the radical, Alice Paul. After studying the subject well, I found the movie historically accurate in most areas.

 The film glorifies the women who went through hell to pave the way for today's young female voters.  It is important to note that the subject matter was not glossed over.  What I mean is that there are no rose-colored glasses to view through.  Hollywood glamour will not be seen here.  Because it was made for HBO rather than network television, the hellish scenes are cinematic nightmare sequences.  The scenes where the women are made to strip for searches and are force fed during a hunger strike are terribly graphic.  This makes the film too gory for very young viewers.  This is somewhat sad because young girls could be inspired by the film.  The suffragists that are in this film are not the sort that you see in "Mary Poppins."

 One item that brought concern for this critic was a question about the historical accuracy of the relationship between Dempsy's character and the character played by Swank.  This may have been added to give a love interest to the story line, but it seems unnecessary to the plot.  Moreover, Angelica Huston's character, Catt, is somewhat more villainous than the lobbyist might have been.  Many films have cast Huston in this sort of role, however in this particular instance, it was over the top.

 This film is a reminder that Susan B. Anthony did not work alone to insure the right to vote for women.  After viewing this film, I think every one of these women should have her face on an American coin.