Teresa Wright and Joseph Cotten give good, solid performances in this Hitchcock thriller. Hitchcock evidently said this was his favorite movie:

Charlie (Teresa Wright) plays a young woman who "hero worships" her namesake: Uncle Charlie (Joseph Cotten).

Young Charlie feels her life in idyllic Santa Rosa, Ca. is boring/humdrum...she commiserates with her father - stating nothing ever happens to their family. She decides to send a telegram to her favorite Uncle asking him to visit. Coincidentally, Uncle Charlie has already sent a telegram stating he is coming for an extended stay. Young Charlie thinks this is another sign that her and her Uncle are on the same wave length as far as their thinking and attitudes. She even states at one pt. that they are like twins. Unbeknownst to  the young woman, her Uncle is not what he seems...he has come to Santa Rosa to escape the police who are searching for him - he is a suspect in the killing of several wealthy widows.

The tension mounts as young Charlie comes to realize her Uncle is not as he appears. She fears for her familys' safety. More importantly, you see her struggle as she comes to grips with the knowledge that Uncle Charley is not the fine, upstanding man she thinks he is. You feel for young Charlie as she realizes her Uncle has severe flaws in character and thinking...and if they are alike - than does that mean she is flawed? Is her judgement in people flawed, since she thought so much of her Uncle?

Several great character actors make appearances in this film. Hume Cronyn, Henry Travers (famous for his portrayal of Clarence the Angel in "Its a Wonderful Life), Macdonald Carey and Patricia Collinge  give fine performances. Charlie's father played by Henry Travers and Hume Cronyn (next door neighbor) savor their hobby of reading and solving/planning each other's murders - not realizing there is a real murderer in the house. This juxtaposition of a harmless hobby: plotting ea. other's deaths and psychopath Uncle Charlie's attempts to kill his niece make for an interesting study.