ATTENTION ALL BOND FANS:  If you enjoy any of the older Bond films OR if you tend to be a new-age (IE Brosnan) Bond fan, you won't be disappointed in Die Another Day.  If you insist on being overly critical of the Bond series, then Bond films really shouldn't be your mainstay and ought to stick to Academy-Award calibur films.  This film is 2 hours of Bond FUN; suspend your daily lives and Die Another Day.
Die Another Day features all of the classic elements of Bond adventures (exotic locales, evil villians, action, gorgeous women, gadgets) but also introduces enough new concepts to make the whole experience unique.  Pierce Brosnan appears completely comfortable as Bond (as he did in TWINE) and gives an edgy if not somewhat predicable performance.  Halle Berry does NOT steal the show in any way as Bond's unlikely accomplice (go rent Swordfish if she is your focus), and the standard MI6 crew does a good job of supporting Bond in his latest adventure.
In DAD, Bond becomes embroiled in a North Korean plot to indulge war mongers in that country, however steeped in subterfuge.  Bond's opening scene capture & torture sends him on a mini-vendetta (aka Licence To Kill), which then evolves into a much larger mission with obvious world-saving implications (what else!).  I was somewhat disappointed at the lack of villian development in this film.  If you really savor a FRWLove or Living Daylights type of espionage film, this may not float your boat.
However, don't let this stop you.  The Bond franchise team ensures that Bond continues to set the tempo and standard for quality action thrillers.  The film is visually gorgeous, well edited, and moves rapidly without letting the audience stew for any amount of time.  David Arnold's score of DAD is perhaps his best ever, and as another reviewer noted, this score truly shows Arnold's Barry-esque roots (actually subtly sampling some older themes remixed into Arnold compositions).  It made me quite happy because Barry's scores were a HUGE component of Bond films, and those w/o it tend to be the weaker films (in my opinion).  As far as the Madonna song goes:  I originally disliked it when heard on the soundtrack--> but upon hearing/seeing it in concert with the opening credits, it seems to embody the theme of the film and gets you juiced for the anticipated adventure to unfold.
Without a doubt, one of the best Bond scenes ever takes place here in the form of the action packed car ice chase between Zao & Bond.  ALL of the Brosnan-Bond villians and henchmen have been weak so far (Stamper...); Zao proves to be sinister, evil-looking, tough, and a very cunning adversary.  You truly BEG for Bond to wipe this guy out with maximum prejudice.  As for Gustav Graves (Toby Stephens), he could have been a little more evil but he'll do.  There is MUCH more to him than meets the eye.
In the negative category, I found the size of Michael "Mr. Blonde" Madsen's character way too insignificant.  Also, I somewhat disliked the director's attempts at "Matrix-style" motion FX.
As with all GOOD Bond films, DAD features an over-the-top villian lair, extraordinary evil weapons of mass destruction, and of course, a climatic larger-than-life battle between Bond & the villians with the world hanging in the balance.  Go see this movie.  Let's face it:  even if you don't think its as good as Goldfinger, it could NEVER, EVER BE AS AWFUL AS LIVE & LET DIE.