3 on 2 Handicap Tables Match for the Tag Team Championship
Dudley Boyz vs La Resistance&Rob Conway
This was your average opener. It was pretty good overall. Some action in the middle. Some decent table spots, but overall just an average tables match to get the crowd going.
6/10

Test vs Scott Steiner
The stipulation was that the winner would get Stacy Keibler but if Test won, he would get Keibler and Steiner's services. This was actually a good match. Test hit some nice moves during the match and so did Steiner. The way Stacy Keibler came into play at the end really helped this match and I liked how they decided to end it like that. Good match, overall.
6.5/10

Randy Orton vs Shawn Michaels (Legend Killer Match)
Now this was a great match! I love how the had this match early because it was a real attention getter. A fantastic match throughout. HBK got his spots to show that he is, well, HBK and Orton got his spots to show what he can do in the ring. Some nice moves by both men. Ric Flair made his presence felt throughout the entire match. The ending was something interesting to watch. They put in an ending that left both men walking out looking pretty strong. Great match.
8.5/10

Gail Kim and Molly Holly vs Lita and Trish Stratus
Just another women's match. This is when Diva competition was good but this tag match could have been left for an episode of Raw. Nothing special. I'd rather have seen a 1 on 1 or some sort of Women's Championship match, but it's good for what it is. Just don't think it was worth time on a pay-per-view.
4/10

Last Man Standing Match
Kane vs Shane McMahon-
Match of the night. Shane didn't even wait for his entrance to sneak up on Kane with a chair. Shane started the match off looking pretty strong with a lot of chair shots. Before long Kane started getting on the offense for a while. Great match throughout. A nice coast-to-coast with the steel steps by Shane that should have ended the match if it weren't for the ref being knocked out. I'm not complaining though. The rest of the match had Kane getting in a lot of offense before Shane again took the offensive. I'm sure everybody already know about Shane's 35 foot leap of faith at the very end! Amazing! Awesome match and definatly match of the night.
10/10

Triple-Threat for Intercontinental Championship
Christian (c) vs Chris Jericho vs Rob Van Dam
Wow! I feel as if these 3 men were robbed. If this match were placed before the Last Man Standing match, it would have gotten a way bigger reaction from the crowd. But anyway, this was an AMAZING triple-threat match. Jericho and Christian form an alliance in the beginning to take out RVD. RVD sticks in their and hits some nice moves throughout the match. Eventually, Jericho and Christian's alliance breaks down and they go at it. You just have to watch this to really know how good this match is. Watch out for an insane double frogsplash by RVD and a crazy double-powerbomb by Christian near the end. This was really the best triple-threat match I have seen. Each man got their spots and it was a near perfect performance.
9/10

Jim Ross and Jerry Lawler vs Al Snow and Jonathan Coachman-
Winner would get to be the announcers on Raw. Well this match was a waste. Chris Jericho drop kicks Ross at the end to lose them their jobs to "break Steve Austin." My original plan was to just skip this match, but I watched it anyway, just so I'd be able to say I saw it. Terrible.
2/10

MAIN EVENT-
World Heavyweight Championship
Triple H (c) vs Goldberg
The stipulation was that if Goldberg loses, he is finished wrestling, if he wins, he is the champion. So, this match was just alright. Not a real good main event. Both men went back and forth for about 15 minutes. Nothing special. Not the best main event, but not bad either. It's worth watching once or twice.
7/10

Overall, this was a great pay-per-view and I would definatly recommend it to any wrestling fan. It is worth having and worth watching more then once. A successful PPV for WWE.