Honestly, I rented this because the description was interesting, and I don't mind gory films. I read that there was a gay romance between the killer and victim, but I figured that would be tolerable. I was wrong. This movie has more gay sex than Brokeback Mountain. Prepare for tons of wang. I mean seriously. Whatever amount of male nudity you think you're expecting, you're wrong. This may seem like the worst part of the film to some, but everything about this film is equally awful.
The film stock is cheap and blurry, almost like old VHS quality. I can overlook that in a low-budget or indie film, but here it's just one more thing to complain about. What I can't overlook is the piece-of-crap cinematography. Zooming in for an extreme close up of EVERYTHING does not make you an artistic filmmaker, nor does holding the camera at an angle. Gah.
I love piano music, which can often stand alone in the background just fine. Here, however, the trite little melodies lack the character of John Carpenter's Halloween theme.  Also, the music sounds like it was recorded on the tape deck I had in 1986, rather than professional equipment.
The sound mix is bad, with inappropriately loud sound effects throughout the film. When the camera is pulled away from the actors, we shouldn't hear them like they have microphones in front of their faces. Oh, and I could have done without the horse noises during the gay sex scene.
The English dubbed voice actors are atrocious. I tried to switch the audio to the original German, but did not see an option to do so. It doesn't matter, I guess. Even in the scenes without words, you can tell how bad the actors are. In fact, the first twenty minutes don't really contain any talk. We're subjected to watching the main character's failed attempts at dating / meeting a potential victim, which are acted out with horrible over-acted pantomime. I hate you, movie. I wish you were never born.
If you want to see bloody male private parts and lots of body hair, you've found a real treasure. If you're a horror fan, this movie isn't good enough for you. I will admit the gore IS quite realistic.  I suspect that animal entrails were used toward the end, as the viscera was far too well done to match the budget of the film. This is unfortunate, because this level of gore will lure some of you into watching one of the crappiest movies ever made.