First of all this critical review about "Billy Elliot" is the summary of lots of critical reviews from our English class. The British movie "Billy Elliot", produced by Stephen Daldrey in 2000 is about a boy who faces the problems to become a famous ballet dancer in the time of the miner's strikes.
He lives with his grandma, father and brother together in the most difficult time for miners (70's - 80's). So they all have their own problems and it looks as if the family would break especially as the father, who wants his son to do boy sports like boxing, finds out about his son's dancing ambitions. But Billy has a strong will and stands by his dream to become a dancer. He reaches his aim and in the final scene you can see him in a real big theatre.
You can immediately see that it is not one of those  Hollywood productions again. The colours are different, colder and the story/plot really tells us an interesting story.
The camera moves fit perfectly to the scenes presented and create a perfect atmosphere for the watcher.
Just like the music that is in this case important, because if you listen very carefully to the text of the songs you can connect it with the plot of the scenes. It is especially important  when Billy dances to it, for example in the scene in which he encounters his father in the sports club and Billy wants to show him that he can, wants and will dance. Or take the scene when Mrs Wilkinson comes to Billy's house and has a fight with Tony while Billy stands on the table and just cannot take it. Suddenly you can see him dancing with all his emotions, power, fear and hatred. This is the one scene in which you cannot only see but feel that dancing is for Billy the way to express himself..
The actors are very well chosen. Jamie Bell plays such a lovely Billy Elliot just like you had imagined him after reading the book. And that is also true for the other actors like July Walters as Mrs Wilkinson or Gary Lewis as Jackie Elliot, the strict father who succeeds in  overcoming his inhibitions to help Billy's dream of dancing come true.
Still, as we heard that we would talk in the English lessons about "Billy Elliot" the class was divided into two groups, the one who liked the idea and the other one who thought that it would be a "woman's movie". But in the end almost everybody liked it. And the movie is a very good example of the idea that everybody can fulfil his dreams if he has the will and ambition to do so. We would not say there is a special age group for watching this movie, so we would recommend it to everybody.