I think I should address the few good things about this movie:

GOOD THING #1: Numero uno would be David Keith's portrayal of Jack Murdock, Matt's boxer father. No longer sporting the lanky build we saw in An Officer and a Gentleman, in the intervening 20 years it looks like Keith has put on 100 pounds, most of it muscle. He was just perfect as the big, beefy Irish brawler.

GOOD THING #2: The scene where Matt uses his radar sense to "see" Elektra's face in the rain was just beautiful, so well and sensitively done it seemed to have wandered in from another movie.

A MAJOR MISSED OPPORTUNITY: In the transition from comic to movie, Matt's origin was changed from heroically pushing a blind man out of the path of a speeding truck, from which fell a radioactive isotope, striking him across the eyes, blinding him and granting him super-senses. (Appreciate the irony: saving a blind man turns this heroic boy into a blind man himself.) In the movie there's no heroism involved, he simply runs into a spray of toxic waste.

Later in the movie the newly "blinded" Matt stops a man from stepping out into the path of a speeding car. He raises his cane across the man's path because obviously he "saw" the car coming when the sighted man did not - and because, in this movie, Matt cares not a whit, apparently, then or later, for hiding the fact he's not an ordinary blind man. In fact, he flaunts the fact. The man he stops from being run over is played by Stan Lee, Daredevil's creator back in 1964.

So we have a grossly altered origin leeching from it any hint of heroism, and a throwaway moment with Daredevil's creator that underlines how lightly Matt takes the "secret" of his powers. What if, instead, they'd taken the best of those two ideas, the origin of DD's powers and Stan Lee's cameo role? We have the scene where Matt's racing to save a blind man from an onrushing truck....AND THE BLIND MAN WAS STAN LEE. Creation saves creator, in the live action version of the origin scene Lee wrote 39 years before. That's just....perfect.

What might have been.