Shamefully and unfairly calumniated, denigrated, insulted, disgraced, depreciated by a mob of blind journalists, critics and public viewers fond of, if not obsessed with neatness, clich&eacute;s and deja-vu in movies, afraid of everything new, creative and non-conformist, unable to analyse correctly and understand... the last Carpenter release, his rejoicing "Ghosts of Mars" is a rare piece of work we unfortunately no more have the courage to make and face these days.
'For them, we are the invaders...'
What did you expect? "Total Recall" n° 2? "Species" n° 3? Another teen movie? In case you forgot, Big John Carpenter is an independent artist, a rebel and he makes his films the way he wants them to be made, keeping all the usual Hollywood stuff away. In "Ghosts of Mars" like in most of his previous films, no stupid sentimental scene, no cheap love story, no body-builded superstar like Schwarzenegger for bumping off all the bad guys one after another (and no super female to back him up) and of course for triumphing in the end, no heavy, exhausting special effects, no honeyed music... in two words, not any of all the conventions always desired by the brainless but too demanding riff-raff (critics included). This film must be seen as a real action movie, and the hell with the established criterions!
"Ghosts of Mars" is first the proof that Carpenter is no more influenced by the others; he's now influenced only by himself, his own work. The Shining Canyon siege reminds us of the ones in "Assault on Precinct 13" and also "Prince of Darkness", the possession theme takes us back to "The Thing", the fighting scenes, to "Big Trouble in Little China" and Big Daddy Mars is very close to Blake in "The Fog" and the chilling bum played by rocker Alice Cooper in "Prince of Darkness". The only outside influence is Cyril Endfield's "Zulu", about the Martians and their methods, mutilating the human bodies they took possession of - not mutilating themselves; of course, they're already dead! -, acting like a savage tribe (what's all that stuff about Marilyn Manson??? For Christ Sake! this is ridiculous!). There's also some of "The Exorcist", and the scene where Henstridge manages to get rid of the ghost inside her, thanks to the dope she's addicted to, may give us a solution to demon possession.
Instead of kicking...in real life, Carpenter does it in his movies. He always did so far and there's no reason he doesn't do it again. Despite some senseless elements in the script - we don't really understand why the ghosts of Mars can't get through the doors and walls, and why the human characters, after escaping from hell, come back to it right away, in order to try to blow up the whole place and the ghosts with it, with an atomic bomb (the problem is, you can't kill what's already dead) -, the movie manages to work. One of the most important things is the political background which is still here, as visible as it was before, and Carpenter didn't take gloves for nothing, especially not for the Mars planet itself - a dark mining colony, soon becoming some kind of a hell, and reminding us Manhattan transformed as an outdoor prison hell in "Escape from New York", for the two main characters (the one is a gang leader, the other, a drug addict), for the society of the earth, settled on Mars - a matriarchal society, ruled by women (why not? It's very envisageable, and doesn't need any explanation), and for his country's history: the ghosts can be easily compared with the American Indians. Using the hard way, Carpenter reminds us that Mars is, for the mankind, just another territory to be conquered, whatever the price (one more general slaughter?), doing it again, 21 years after "The Fog" which has a similar message about the past. 'It's not their planet any more', Melanie Ballard says. Finally, there were in this movie all the elements leading to its (unfair but foreseeable) critical and public failure. All the more because, probably for the first time since "Johnny Guitar" (forget about the "Alien" series), it's a woman who got the first role in a high-grade action movie. And as we know, the audience is filled with machos...
About the actors, we'll notice the good performance of very (too?) pretty Natasha Henstridge, here in the role of a strong (and of course sexually attractive) woman, far from all the conventions in force in Hollywood. For once, she doesn't strip - why should she, Bruce? It's not in her contract, and besides the role wasn't written for her - even macho Jason Statham can't make her! - and she really ACTS! At LAST! Ice Cube makes it rather well in a Plissken-looking role (like Plissken and 'Napoleon' Wilson in "Assault on Precinct 13", James 'Desolation' Williams doesn't believe in anything but staying alive), and Pam Grier ("Coffy", "Jackie Brown"), back with Big John five years after "Escape from L.A.", and Joanna Cassidy ("Blade Runner", "Who framed Roger Rabbit?") make diverting appearances. The result is a hell of a sci-fi movie, managing to cleverly mix many genres (action, horror, western, comedy of manners...) with quite little money; a movie to be taken at the third degree and consumed like good source water: with no moderation. Just try, you'll see, it's very easy...