There's a scene in Amadeus where Emperor Joseph II criticizes Mozart's work for having "too many notes."  Mozart defends that he believes his work has just the right number of notes, not too many or too few.  One gets the sense that had Emperor Joseph heard Chris Botti's performance on this DVD he would have complained it had too few.  Even Botti comments on a bonus interview that he is not an artist that floods a piece with "a lot of content."  "I need someone to finish my phrases for me," he observes.  And that is what makes Chris Botti stand apart from the smooth jazz crowd.

Make no mistake, Chris Botti is a virtuoso - a young virtuoso, with so much potential it's frightening to think of where he'll be in ten years, or in five.  But he is a musician who understands, and exercises, the power of restraint, and that understanding shows up in spades on this video.  Surrounded by a world-class core band--Billy Childs (piano) and  Billy Kilson (drums) especially stand out--and a 50-piece orchestra of L.A.'s best session players, he plays just the right number of notes, leaving ample room for his band mates and guests to finish his musical phrases.

And what a parade of guest singers: Sting, Paula Cole, Jill Scott, Paul Buchanan, Renee Olstead, Gladys Knight all shine in the generous space created by the headliner.  As someone in the "behind the scenes" bonus documentary observes, Jill Scott doesn't merely channel Billie Holiday in her show-stopping performance of Good Morning Heartache, she's the second coming.  No wonder great singers flock to perform with Botti - by turning the spotlight on them he elevates the entire performance to new heights, and the glory reflects back on him.

Botti is the willing servant of the song, and freely acknowledges that the real stars on this recording are his three arrangers, who he introduces to the audience and gives due credit.  "They're the cake, I'm just the frosting," he explains, comparing himself to Sinatra, who was wise enough not to get in the way of Quincy Jones' incomparable arrangements, but instead showed up after "the cake" had been backed to perfection to top it.

It's unfair to categorize Chris Botti as a "smooth jazz" musician in the same way that it is blasphemy to pigeon-hole Michael Franks in that class.  Both are simply musicians whose virtuosity and performances transcend efforts to label them.  Pop?  Jazz?  What does it matter what you call it when you can bring out and capture performances like this on film?