A disturbing, fascinating and notoriously difficult piece of cinema. It is frequently referred to by some critics as a great British gangster movie along with `Get Carter' or `Brighton Rock' and by others as being a major modernist text. For me it is neither of these things. The gangster motif only occupies half of the film and the narrative was (possibly wilfully) shredded by the production company after shooting. That said the gangster setting is effectively menacing and of vital consequence to the thematic thrust of the work. Modernism (as it was by the late 1960s) was in summary an ideological attempt to purify forms against the burdens of history or aesthetics - to affirm a functional use value orientated system - or the political economy of the sign. `Performance' seeks to challenge the dominant semiotic thesis, to blur the distinctions between sign and signifier - to confront conceptions of meaning and logic in the tradition of Nietzsche. In the sense of being contra modernism, `Performance' might be at the vanguard of the postmodern movement, but like Jean Baudrillard, at the heretic post-structuralist arm of that movement. `Performance' in many ways is there at the margins; the margins of pop and the underworld; of crime and big business; of the optimistic 1960s and dour 1970s; of decaying modernist ideology and advancing postmodernism; of what could be produced by a major film company. Above all `Performance' seeks to expose the myth of the binary oppositions which are underwritten by our system of language: life/death, male/female, fantasy/reality and the entire problematic of the representative relationship. This problematic, and its references to the work of Bataille and Borges, is eloquently described in Jean Baudrillard's 1976 work `Symbolic Exchange and Death' (translated into English in 1993) which should be essential reading for anyone who is intrigued and mystified by this important film. On the other hand, those who seek a taught gangster thriller would be well advised to look elsewhere to avoid disappointment.