Mix up "The Right Stuff", "Apollo 13", "Spacecamp", "Silverado", and "Firefox", and what do you get?  You get "Space Cowboys".  Only problem:  each of the above movies were better than "Space Cowboys".  But this is still enjoyable.

Let me immediately address four problems with this movie.

1.  It is too long.  True, that length helped out in developing the characters, but it could have been shortened.  Some criticized Firefox for the length of time spent in dealing with Eastwood's character being trained, which was not really dealt with in the original novel.  Eastwood has fallen into the same trap here, though the cast in this movie makes it forgivable.

2.  The language.  I feel there are two kinds of movies regarding offensive words -- those that have unnecessary bad language, and those without bad language.  It may have caused some chuckles, but that is cheap humor, and again was not necessary.

3.  The payoff.  This movie did a good job of creating the mystery, such as why American technology was on a Soviet satellite, but the payoff was weak.  So was the finale, in my opinion.

4.  Tank.  The movie made it come across that Tank (James Garner) was more effective at his role on the mission than being a minister, which bothers this ordained minister.  Is it an attempt to poke fun at Christianity as a whole, saying we all are stupid?  Or was it making Tank seem to be out of his league?

These complaints do not keep this from being entertaining.  It is a movie I'd have no real problems (other than those listed above) to taking a jr. or sr. high school student to see.  It is entertaining, without relying on sex and violence.  It is basically a waste of time, but it is entertaining in wasting the time, and a lot of times that is what movies are supposed to do.

One last comment I'll make.  This movie shows some of the problems of our government without making the government the villain.  I like that.  I don't need a movie that considers our government to be infallible, but I also don't need one that treats it as evil either.