Although the first two movies Basil Rathbone made as Sherlock Holmes ("The Hound of the Baskervilles" and "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes") were in the original Victorian setting, Hollywood subsequently decided that even Holmes could pitch in during the propaganda years of World War II.  And so, he donned modern dress and rode about in fast cars in pursuit of Nazi collaborators, aided as ever by Dr. Watson (Nigel Bruce), who oddly enough was still wearing a suspiciously Edwardian collar.  
"Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon" is one such vehicle. Somewhat prophetically, the secret weapon is a type of super bomb and its inventor is a much-sought-after fellow. So Holmes goes over to the mainland to fetch him and bring him to the right side, England. While the inventor is very glad to be rescued from the Nazis by Holmes, for some inexplicable reason, he keeps leaving the flat, giving Basil Rathbone an opportunity to put on greasepaint and go scouring the wharves for this guy in cognito as a toughened seaman. That's actually the second disguise BR wears; before the movie's over, he'll indulge a few more times. Well, the upshot is that with all of his goings-about, the stupid inventor eventually gets kidnapped by Holmes' nemesis, Dr. Moriarty (Lionel Atwill), who of course puts him to the screws to get info out of him. Will Holmes get there in time? Since this review is being written in English not German, I think you can figure it out for yourself.  
Rathbone does a pretty good job in his various incarnations; actually, what strikes me most about him aren't his disguises, but his rather unique coiffure when he's being just plain Holmes. It is a style where the locks around his temples are brushed forward, not back, to make him look as though he were just about to set his hair in curlers. I know he does sport this hairdo again in "SH in Washington", but sad to say, this attempt to make Sherlock Holmes a trendsetter in the world of hairstyles came to naught. Ah well, what he does well, he does well, and so after the culprits are rounded up, Holmes ends the piece by reciting from the "this blessed isle" speech of "Richard II", demonstrating once again that British pluck that did indeed forestall Nazi domination. Not great cinema, but fine for easy viewing.