At first glance, it's almost difficult to understand this DVD collection's purpose. All 4 films have been released previously on DVD, and TCM hasn't remastered any of them. In other words, they appear pretty much the same as they've always looked in this format.
  That being said, there are still plenty of new film buffs just waiting to discover moviemaking magic like the efforts contained here; and since not everybody can afford to purchase a shiny, pristine copy of EVERYTHING...this is actually a fine introduction to 4 very different styles of horror filmmaking.
  Let's face it, on most single-disc or double-disc compilations, there's usually one dud amongst the treasure. Not here-the 1941 version of 'Dr Jekyll' pales in comparison to the 1932 masterpiece, but it's still a great piece of cinema. And how could it not be, with the wonderful Spencer Tracy digging his teeth into such a juicy role?
  House of Wax, from 1953, is also a remake-but unlike 'Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde', this version is every bit the equal of the original. You can thank the utterly fascinating Vincent Price for that, in a performance that doesn't allow you to take your eyes off of the '50's King of Horror'.
  Even better is Robert Wise's 'The Haunting', a truly disturbing, if dated, work that can be looked upon as a transitional film, bridging the more innocent Hammer and Giant Insect films of the 1950's to the psychological horror that would soon be shocking audiences throughout the '60's. (Of course, 'The Haunting' was preceded by Hitchcock's monumental, and superior, 'Psycho'). Be sure to stay far, far away from the '99 Michael Douglas/Catherine Zeta-Jones remake; that putrid effects-fest remains one of the worst films ever made that dared to call itself a 'ghost story'.
  Of course, the prize here is Browning's 'Freaks', a film that one simply MUST see in their teenage years, before "jaded" replaces "wide-eyed". This true classic so frightened British audiences when it was first made in 1933 that it was banned, shelved, and not seen again for decades. The director's use of genuine circus 'freaks' remains shocking and disturbing to this day.
  If your idea of great horror is the 'Friday the 13th' series, then feel free to spend your money elsewhere. But to those who appreciate the art of the psychological terror film, as well as those who have the ability to place an old piece of cinema in it's proper perspective, this great set gives you lots of chills for a less-than-scary price.