This is my favorite film for WAY too many reasons to express.
I remember seeing it in 1986 when I was in 6th grade, when my mother decided it would do our family good to do something "together," much to our dismay of course.  I probably had no idea who Woody Allen was at the time, but when the film was over, my parents and sister panned it rellentlessly.  But I genuinely loved it.
I think what I responded to was the genuine conflicts of human nature that were portrayed so believably and effortlessly, and with great comedy and sensitivity.  Woody Allen has a keen sense of relationships, particularly those that are untimately flawed and in great crisis.  His dialogue is so thrilling thoughout this movie, mostly because his characterizations are so dense and the actors are really given the time to flesh out their portrayals.  I once heard that this is the Woody Allen film for those that are weary of Woody Allen films.
Dianne Wiest is so excellent in this film portraying Holly, a lost soul who is often consumed by her feelings of inadequecy, leading her to cope with odd jobs, drug addictions, and failed relationships.  My favorite scene in the movie is when she and April (Carrie Fisher) leave their catering gig with an architect (Sam Waterston), who takes a liking in both of them.  After touring New York's architectural monuments, it becomes clear that he is more interested in April, leading to a brilliantly written voice-over scene by Weist on the ride home (which is equally sad and funny).  Woody Allen turns in his best performance as Mickey, the obsessive-cumpulsive and insecure hypochondriac former husband to Hannah (Mia Farrow).  He is a somewhat successful TV producer, desperately struggling with a myriad of existential issues simultaniously (and losing his grip on reality).
The other standout here is Michael Caine, who plays Elliot, who is married to Hannah, but consumed with love for her sister Lee (Barbara Hershey).  Caine is amazing as a fumbling fool in love, desperate to pursue Lee and confess his love for her, but also trying to maintain his marriage to Hannah, amidst their own conflicts and insecurities.
One powerful scene (and the longest involving the three sisters) takes place when the three decide to meet up for lunch.  Holly has just come from another unsuccessful audition, Hannah begins to sense her husband's unhappiness with their marriage, and Lee is just trying to order her lunch.  The dialogue in this scene really fleshes out each characters flaws...Holly's deep insecurities that she will always be both overshadowed by Hannah, and yet reliant on her, Lee's unsaid feelings of guilt about her affair with Elliot, and Hannah's need to mother them both, and keep them in a state of admiration.  It is really hard to watch moment, as their insecurities begin to lash out at one another before our eyes, as the camera pans around the table.  Simply remarkable.  But Allen's Mickey also has some great scenes, especially when his hypochondria takes center stage, and he suspects than all his medical tests are going to spell out his ultimate doom.
Allen manages to effortlessly weave many stories in this film that honor his thematic mainstays: love, death, adultery, joy, sex, family and genuine comedy.  It is mostly a film about second chances, and how despite the loads of grief and confusion that life can dish out from time to time, there is always a reason to feel joy.  
The ending is classic hollywood (but still believable), with all the characters reaching a satisfying sense of happiness.  The irony here is that Holly and Mickey, who could be easily panned throughout the film as the most hopeless characters af all, are given the greatest tribute in the end. 
Rounding out the excellent cast are Max Von Sydow as Lee's painter boyfriend, Julie Kavner as Mickey's assistant, Maureen O'Sullivan as Hannah's "boozy old flirt" mother, plus a heap of future celebrities like Julia Louis-Dreyfus and John Turturro.
I also really enjoy the jazz soundtrack, which really parallels the frenetic pace and mood of the film.