After the light comedic romance of Volume 1 of the "Oh! My Goddess" series, Volume 2 abruptly takes a much more serious and highly melodramatic turn.  For a five-episode series, though, it is understandable that things must be brough to a crisis rather quickly.  That said, the two episodes of Volume 2, "Evergreen Holy Night" and "For the Love of Goddess" are fitting episodes to conclude the series - they show the extent to which the relationship between Keiichi and Belldandy has grown, despite their being literally from two different worlds.  The slightly twisted Urd is still here, as is the feisty Skuld, perpetually carrying around her croquet mallet.  
Episode 4, "Evergreen Holy Night," draws us immediately into the action.  Keiichi is having a nightmare, in which Belldandy is forced to revoke the terms of their contract and return to Heaven.  Awakening in a panic, the next day reveals the reality behind Keiichi's premonitions.  The appearance of 'bugs,' odd little rabbits with cricket legs, in their shrine home, signals some malfunction in the bridge between Earth and Heaven - and strangely manifests itself when Keiichi and Belldandy are close to each other.  From snow at Christmastime (go figure) to randomly exploding soft drink machines, Belldandy and Keiichi's relationship is a growing threat to all around them - and a recall notice from the Lord notifies Belldandy that she has indeed been called back.  
Episodes 4 and 5 of the "Oh! My Goddess" series show Belldandy unusually disaffected, unable to do much of anything except knit, while Urd and Skuld try to figure out a way to stop the flow of 'bugs' into the material world.  These 'bugs' are the reason Skuld carries around her croquet mallet all the time, and as the plot unfolds, we get what amounts to an apocalyptic game of "Whack-a-Mole," with the eternal love contract between Keiichi and Belldandy at stake.  While Urd and Skuld try to solve the 'bug' problem through science and magic, Keiichi, pursuant to his dream and the goadings of his sister, Megumi, takes up a number of odd jobs to buy a keepsake ring to give Belldandy before she is forced to return to Heaven.
A lot happens in these two episodes, and I've only given a bare outline of how each episode starts.  Though these last two episodes show touching displays of affection and perseverance, the writers are careful to preserve the individuality of each of the main characters, while introducing very few new ones so as not to distract from the main story.  Volume 2 of "Oh! My Goddess" is extremely melodramatic, and kind of hard to take seriously, but as I said, is decent in its own right.  I'm not sure why they didn't put all five episodes on one disc, and have the second disc contain some quality extras, but whatever.  
The extras on Volume 2 are the same as on Volume 1 - a musical slide show of cels, and a 'dub your own DVD' feature.  However, Volume 2 also includes the "Oh! My Goddess" music videos - basically the opening and ending themes and animation from the series, independent of the episodes.  Worth owning for a completist, but if I had to choose, I would take Volume 1 instead.  Volume 2 is just way too hyperbolically downbeat for me.  I'm glad I watched it though.