One of the BEST horror films EVER! If not, 'THE' best.
The film portrays TRUE events that happened in a real town called Amityville, Long Island NY in 1975.
"In a middle class, sleepy little town, a boy named Ronald  Defeo, 'out of the blue', shoots to death all 6 members of his entire  family in their sleep. The house is only a couple of meters away from the  houses next door, and yet no shots were heard. The gun used was a  high-powered rifle! The boy is arrested and sentenced to life. End of  story.
Until, 1 year later the Lutz family moves into the house (the man  uncannily looks very much like the murderer), only to move out 28 days  later claiming that the house is (demonically) haunted.
The Lutz's story  became worldwide news, and completely overshadowed the DeFeo story. The  Lutz's wrote a book called 'The Amityville Horror' about their ordeal, then  a film was made, based on the book, also called 'The Amityville  Horror'."
This is a sequel to the Lutz's 'The Amityville Horror',  but actually tells the story the Defeo's.
The movie offers a different  perspective from the conventional facts. In the movie, shortly after the  family moves in, subtle supernatural things start to happen. This, though,  leads the father to turn violent, and domestic troubly start. A priest is  asked to bless the house, but when he comes he soon wishes that he hadn't.  One dark night the eldest boy, when in The house all alone, is violently  possessed by something very evil. Over a period of time the boys attitude  and appearance start to change for the worse, he then has incest with his  sister, and finally he murders his entire family.
The cinematography in  this film is in a class of it's own. A true feat that has set the  standards, which no other horror film has managed; (with the exception of  the original, 'The Amityville Horror', and 'The Exorcist'). The movie is  well made in every respect and the acting in outstanding.
The house  itself, that the movie was filmed in, is enough to give you creeps. It's  the second most spookiest house I've seen; the original house is The  spookiest.
The achievement is the atmosphere and vibe that this movie  manages to produce- something uncannily REAL...
Nuff said. Watch  it!
p.s Don't listen to any bad reviews you might hear about it.