Based on a scan of some reviews here, they might subtitle this movie Lazarus!, or Phoenix!, since it has apparently been raised from the dead on video shelves.

This movie has been largely forgotten and seldom appears on the movie channels precisely because it is and was always seen as a shambles.  Footage was borrowed from other films to fill out the production, people wanted their names taken off the picture, it suffered more than one theatrical "final cut," and when it finally was released it was alternatively funny and painful to sit through.  I took another look at it for old times' sake and it is truly awful to watch.

The cast is largely out of Universal's own TV stable; the various subplots are cursory, irrelevant and unconvincing; the sniper is never more than sketched and entirely devoid of scare value; the biggest menace appears to be that the guy with a sack of small arms has made one hi-cap magazine for his Remington hunting rifle.

Nothing much other than soap opera happens for the first two acts; and when you finally get to the movie's payoff in act 3, you wait in vain for something to happen -- There's lots of extras running at the behest of some assistant director of crowd control; a relatively few "victims" fall after getting sniped (we assume, since we see not a single memorable bullet hit -- just some of the Universal stunt crew doing falls and such without so much as holes in their overalls) by this supposed disaster-movie-scale sniper threat.

Chuck Heston and John Cassavetes do some running, ladder-climbing, grimacing and manly shouting to no effect; and a few of the TV actors get their personal problems sorted out in corny fashion just before the end credits.  Even the ending seems pasted together from outtakes.  And, by the way, the entire movie's soundtrack is memorably terrible, even grating.

The sniper's half-hearted spree is thoroughly disappointing -- compacted into a few badly timed moments at the tail end of the decidedly unspectacular, anticlimactic production.  Essentially, the movie promises a sniper rampage at the finish, but delivers something faceless and insipid, cobbled together by some scapegoat editor from almost nothing at all.

This may be the worst disaster movie ever made, certainly the worst by a Hollywood major motion picture company.  You may even throw your DVD away after you've seen this once.