This ambitious attempt to film the Shakespearean fantasy has much to recommend it, but in the end falters on the rocks of its own lack of imagination.  Director Michael Hoffman starts out promisingly, showing an interesting society of fairies living in the enchanted woods and depicting Puck riding around on a giant snail. But Robin Goodfellow quickly changes in his snail for a bicycle, and the film soon becomes as mundane as the sprightly elf's choice of transportation.
The performances are a frustrating mixed bag. Anna Friel's sexy and vulnerable Hermia is the undeniable standout in the cast, projecting such depth and humanity in a role that few actresses make much impact in that her depiction approaches the overused Shakespearean mantle of "definitive." Impressive turns are also offered by Roger Rees as a browbeaten Peter Quince, Bill Irwin as a surprisingly moving Snug, and Calista Flockhardt - who is well-cast and effective as Helena, although her whiney characterization is so reminiscent of her TV turn as Ally MacBeal that it was difficult for this viewer to suspend my disbelief to the point where I could fully accept her in the role.
Coming off less well are David Strathairn, who gives such a low-key and flavorless performance as Theseus that the viewer wonders if he was told that the cameras were on when he was playing his scenes; Rupert Everett who offers little more than a stiff line recitation as Oberon; and Stanley Tucci as Puck, who was a victim of director Hoffman's inability to use any cinematic magic to make the character come off as anything approaching fairylike. 
Special mention should be made to the producer's casting coups of Kevin Kline and Michelle Pfeiffer. Kline, of course, is widely regarded as the finest American Shakespearean actor of his generation and his reputation as a farceur makes his casting as Bottom seem inspired. But Kline not only offers a disappointingly lifeless characterization, but Hoffman made a fatal error in trying to "flesh out" the part by making him a hen-pecked husband who is constantly trying to avoid a shrewish wife that was never anything Shakespeare imagined: indeed Hoffman quarantines her from the other characters by writing her dialogue in Italian, a clumsy device that only serves to make the aberration seem like even more of a sore thumb. 
But unquestionably the low point of the film is the incompetent performance of Pfeiffer as Titania. Her delivery of the Shakespearian dialogue is so unconvincing that she comes off as a performer in a high school play. It's time that producers realized that casting "movie names" like Pfeiffer, Keanu Reeves, Ethan Hawke and Jack Lemmon in classical roles that they are ill-equipped to play may help them raise the budgets for their projects, but it ultimately sinks the artistic aspirations of the endeavor.
But for all its faults, this "Midsummer" is almost redeemed by a magnificent rendering of the "Pyramus and Thisby" play-within-a-play in Act V. This is actor-proof material, to be sure; but the players depicting the Mechanicals as well as the Lovers supporting them in the audience do a miraculous job of playing the scene for both its farcical elements and for the very dramatic moments that lie just beneath the text.  If the entire film had been played at this level, it might have been one of the great masterpieces of Shakespeare on film; but as it is, it is little more than patchwork.