This is the definitive transcription of the novel to the screen.  Heston faithfully follows the book from cover to cover with stunningly accurate recreations of the buccaneer period, even to securing the Bounty, of Captain Bligh fame, to stand in for the Hispaniola.  The casting is brilliant with strong performances by all.  These pirates are the real thing -- bloodthirsty, dirty, treacherous, scheming thugs.  Captain Smollet, Squire Livesay, Jim Hawkins and the rest of the "good guys" are played realistically to a fault.  There is no cuteness in Jim, just adolescent resoluteness and sense of loyalty.  Heston is brilliant as Long John Silver.

This is a version for adults as well as for the younger set.  The adult themes will most likely go over the heads of the kiddies, but the themes are there, nonetheless, and add to the movie's realism.  There is some gore, as might be expected in a pirate movie, but it's kept to a minimum.  Some things are a little hard to fathom as possible, such a Jim sailing the Hispaniola alone around the island to another anchorage when it takes about 150 able-bodied seamen to manage a frigate (again, begging the question of how the few remaining "good guys" managed to sail back to England (maybe they picked up a crew in the Bahamas or something, who knows...who cares)).

Besides the faithful recreation of the story, the exteriors are something wonderful to behold: to see the Hispaniola making sail and then, clouded with canvas, cleaving the sea is worth the price of admission alone.  As mentioned above, the sets are well done.  Scenes in the Admiral Ben Bow Inn are especially effective, with Billy Bones, Blind Pew, Black Dog, Squire Livesay, Mrs Hawkins and Jim making for interesting company.

The Chieftans provide much of the background music.  Again, a wonderful choice.

It's a shame this version is out of print.  For _Treasure Island_ fanciers and lovers of the picaresque, I can't recommend this highly enough.  Score a copy when you can.