Can you say FNL Season 5 Marathon?  There were only 13 Episodes, (at about 43 mins each, except for the last episode which did run just slightly over the hour mark to have the show culminate in, what I think, everyone who really liked this show, a satisfying end.  I Watched the entire Season 5 (which just started airing on NBC Last week) But I watched it over the course of 2 days.

I am happy this show did get 5 Seasons, the show was cast perfectly and the writers have just this spot on way to create realistic and touching dialouge that goes straight to emotion and becomes life learning.  With watching these characters, Julie, Tim, Tyra, Matt, Landry, and esp Coach and his wife just grow as people over the years and struggle, yet always stay true to themselves and you are almost going thru their struggles and achievements right along with them, if the writers were going for that and ever read this, You Absolutely Succeeded.

I am sad that such a great show like this that stays true and can be a Family Show wasn't recogonized and given more the credit it truly deserves.  For those of you who are FNL Fans, you will not be dissappointed in this Final Season.  It brings back some of the characters that may not have been regulars last season, we saw Jason Street, and Tyra came back for some of the later episodes this season.  I absolutely love the dynamic true to life relationship between Eric and Tammy, their FNL Marriage and how they make decisions, especially a monumental decision they must make as a couple as the Series draws to a close.

The new characters introduced last season, Luke, Vince, Becky and Jess, at first took a while to warm up to, almost like they were invading our older characters who had already won a place in our hearts, but seeing them again, and how they deal with their own issues, especially Vince, who has to deal with his father being released from prison, and Vince having to see where his loyalities lie and who is really looking out for his best interests as his Father doesn't think Coach has his sons best interests, so that was a good storyline.

The Becky storyline was really nice, as she, after a not so warming welcome from Mindy (Riggins) found a family that proved to truly care about her, which is what in reality, a young girl her character age really needed.

Julie Taylor has a major bad decision on her part with something, but she, in Taylor fashion works thru it, learns from it, and makes a better, appropriate decision later.

The music is wonderful as always, even mostly at the times the instrumentals hit at just the right time to catch that perfect moment in the show to bring things together.

Just a brilliant show, please buy it, support the show, I am glad to see some of the other actors have already gotten parts in new series (Vince is on Parenthood which is an NBC Show Mondays, and Luke I think is on an ABC show, as well as Matt.)  So i'm sad to see the show end, but happy to have these actors recoginized and put in, what seem to be good series shows that are airing now.

Wish I could give this Ten Stars, because it truly deserves it.