When a two-hour movie spurs you to spend four more hours reading about the event on which it is based, it's fair to say the viewing was time well spent.  I didn't expect much from Valkyrie.  I mean, we all know how this story ends (I realize schooling isn't what it used to be, but do we really need a spoiler alert here?).  So I was pleasantly surprised to find myself, frankly, riveted.  So much is top notch here: the production design, the photography, the pacing, and especially the supporting actors.  Indeed, every actor -- Bill Nighy, Tom Wilkinson, Eddie Izzard, even -- seems an inspired choice for their respective role, creating multi-dimensional characters that are flawed, conflicted, and all too human.  Or at least, every actor but one.  The bad news: Tom Cruise just doesn't pull it off here.  In fact, he nearly ruins the show.  I've liked Cruise in other roles -- he's underrated in Born on the Fourth of July and his bravado-on-autopilot schtick works well in A Few Good Men.  But here he is oddly ineffective.  The screenwriters don't exactly help him -- when we first see Cruise, his view of the war and its political leaders is already set, and we never get a sense of how this came about.  When he is blown up early in the film, losing an eye, one hand, and several fingers on the other, these grievous injuries are treated like a minor inconvenience.  This is a theme that continues through the movie: Emotional events rendered with zero emotion.  Everyone else here struggles with the decision to try to kill Hitler.  They know it should happen, but they're also worried about the consequences of failing (and not insignificantly, what those consequences will mean for their own skin -- maybe not the most noble consideration, but a genuine one).  Cruise's character -- who knows well that if he fails his family will likely be arrested, or worse -- never seems to truly wrestle with his decision to deliver the lethal blow (or, more accurately, blast).  The few cursory flicks at indecision, like that last long embrace of his wife, seem staged and rote and insincere.  His unwavering dedication to the mission might make Cruise's character a hero.  But it also makes him seem fake.  I mean, here's a plan where the guy with three fingers is picked to arm the bomb -- who wouldn't have some second thoughts about an operation like that?  But Cruise treats this all like he's Maverick from Top Gun: Just give me the stick (of TNT, this time) and let me do my job.  It doesn't work.  But fortunately, almost everything else in this film does.