There is no way, of course, to sum up the long saga of "Apocalypse Now" in one word - but if I were forced to do it, the word would be "ambivalence."

Not since D.W. Griffith's seminal "Birth of a Nation" have so many people, critics and moviegoers alike, been more ambivalent about a major cinematic work.  That ambivalence is perhaps best exemplified by Roger Ebert, who gave "Apocalypse" a "thumbs down" in his original review, and then subsequently rated it number one on his list of the best movies ever made.

Even Francis Coppola is ambivalent about his masterpiece; he reworked it more than once even before it was released, and did so again when he learned viewers were misinterpreting the exploding village behind the closing credits.  And then came "Redux", with an entirely new set of modifications.  This package allows you to render your own opinion on the original version versus Coppola's latest incarnation.

I was surprised, frankly - surprised that he expanded scenes which, in my humble opinion, did not need expanding at all (the plantation sequence and the Playboy Playmates, to name two) and left untouched the one part that begs for clarification: the ending.  Mind you, I understand the ending is intentionally murky; but it doesn't truly work - it's fundamentally unsatisfying - and when you so obviously funnel a story toward its ending from minute 1, there is an obligation to provide an ending with more definition, more imagery, more everything than Coppola has given us so far.

Coppola calls "Redux" the "definitive version", but let's hope not. One day, let's hope that he produces a third version that minimizes the plantation sequence, at least, and fleshes out the finale.  Of course, that may not be the definitive version either - but it would be gratifying to have at least one version that ends as it was supposed to, in Francis Coppola's original vision.

But for now, we must be happy with what we have - and this packaged set allows us to do that better than we ever have before.