I have purchased each of the Twilight saga DVD's.  Of the three, I think Eclipse was the best by far.  I enjoyed the footage of the surrounding mountains and how it was actually filmed.  The book story line was also well represented in the third installment of the twilight series.  I felt that the first two movies deviated too much from the actual books, but understood that it was necessary to trim the book story line to keep the movie, age appropriate and within a suitable time frame.  All in all, one of my favorites movies.  I wished that the screen writers had not put so many foul words in Jacob's mouth this time around.  It was not necessary for the plot and seemed to cheapen the storyline.  Not every werewolf needs to use foul language to get their point across.  Leave the cheap language out of the next two movies.  Only weak writing needs to use this type of language to carry the storyline.  I was not happy at all that I made an advance purchase of the Eclipse movie before it's release, but did not receive it until several days after the release date.  Because of this, I will never purchase a newly released movie or book from Amazon.  I will go to my local merchant and fight the lines in order to have the item on the first day of the release.  In the past, since I work for the Postal Service, I knew that Amazon sent the "to be released" materials out to the Post Office to be delivered on the release date.  Even though this made me nervous, I enjoyed serving my customers through Amazon by being able to deliver their item directly to their waiting hands on the day it was released.  I hate that this practice has been discontinued.  It was a great service for those who live in rural areas and can not afford to travel to a store in order to purchase the item on the original release date.  If I had been aware of this fact, I would not have ordered from Amazon.  And I am a loyal customer of Amazon.  Too bad!  I will be purchasing the last two installments at my local store.