This is one of the best films I've seen for a while as it was very thought provoking and afterwards I wanted to know much more about the actual people the events were based around.  I found this film a highly realistic portrayal of the experiences of those unfortunate POW's in their years of captivity in the jungle, far from home, with little or no prospect of rescue, the interaction with other prisoners being the only thing that kept them alive. I felt the key characters were portrayed in a way that made the viewer feel in their position.  What a terrible reality they were suffering, trying to survive day by day, and being shackled like caged animals by cruel captors, living in their own excrement and facing death daily. I found this film made as big an impact on me as I had felt watching The Deer Hunter, and the reason being the sheer horror of the reality of these people's lives and the futility of their situation.

Whilst I appreciate the family of Eugene Debruin do not feel the character was accurate, I none the less found the portrayal facinating, as THIS person (Eugene) had suffered for over two years before the film's main character appears (Dengler), and the Director does a good job in showing Eugene's suffering and his state of mind that must have been close to the truth of a person in his situation at that time, even if not the actual truth of Debruin himself. I think the character of Eugene shouldn't be taken too literally, and he represents a victim of prolonged incarceration and what is really heartbreaking is that he doesn't appear to survive at the end of the movie.  If he is shown as confused or resigned, then if not this exact character in the movie then there would have been hundreds or thousands like him, so I did not interpret the character as being necessarily accurate in precise detail, but the portrayal evokes strong emotions of the hopelessness that must have been felt.  The actor Jeremy Davies, did a truly excellent job in the role, not necessarily of the real Eugene, but of the type of long suffering, despairing and resigned POW.

Steve Zahn is incredible as the doomed Duane Martin, fighting for survival, pitiful, incredibly weakened yet somehow surviving weeks on the run in the jungle only to meet the most shocking and horrendous end. By this time the viewer is numbed by the horror that his extremly weak friend witnesses. Regards this friend, and the main character, Dengler, he is portrayed ultimately as the hero not least as he is the only American who actually survives the terrible ordeal and lives to tell the tale, and so this is his story, and Christian Bale is superb in the role. You feel his ordeal every heartaching minute and the outcome is a miracle. There are no clues as to how it will all end for the characters, as they are in an impossible situation from the outset. The fact that there are any survivors at all makes it a story worth telling.

Werner Herzog crafted an incredible film from Dieter Denglers story of survival, making it an historical yet painful tale, which leaves you aching with worry for those that didn't make it out and are still listed as Missing In Action to this day.  Its not a war movie and yet war creates the background to the story.  It is a movie of survival against impossible odds, and the tragic deaths of so many who died in the jungle whose final stories will never be known and who in time will be forgotten. This film helps us remember the brave attempts at survival of Dieter Dengler, Duane Martin, Eugene Debruin, their friends, and thousands of other POW's. Full marks to Walter Herzog and his excellent cast.