"My Cousin Vinny" is not a well known film but is worth watching out for. A very funny Joe Pesci has the time of his life in the lead role of "Vinny" with excellent support from Marisa Tomei in an Oscar winning performance as his girl friend. This film is a complete change for Pesci after his usual tough guy gangster roles in films such as "Good Fellas" and "Casino". Fred Gwynne was outstanding as Judge Haller in a well written role and his scenes in the courtroom with Joe Pesci were hilarious.
The story revolves around two boys, Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) who while driving through Alabama are arrested for murder. Although innocent they are sent to jail and Bill's cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) drives down from New York to defend them. Unfortunately Vinny has never tried a murder case before, has never actually been in a courtroom and has only been practising law for six weeks!! This does not deter him from taking on the case however nor the many courtroom clashes he has with the redoubtable Judge Haller. The Judge is not too impressed with this oddly dressed character from New York although what Vinny lacks in courtroom experience he more than makes up for with his enthusiasm and his belief that the two boys are innocent. As well as studying the local bulky law technique manuals, sifting through the evidence, interviewing prospective witnesses and trying to build some kind of defence, Vinny also has the problem of keeping one step ahead of Judge Haller who is trying to obtain confirmation of the lawyer's qualifications from sources in New York (which are of course non existent!).
Some favourite lines from the film:
Mitchell Whitfield (to Ralph Macchio): "Ridiculous, all this over a can of tuna!".
Fred Gwynne (to Joe Pesci): "Once again the communication process is broken down".
Pesci (to Gwynne): "You were serious about that?".
Well written, expertly acted, this is one of the funniest courtroom comedies you will see in a long time.