You needn't be a member of any organized religion, not even a "Christian", to enjoy this best-by-far of all Jesus Christ movies.

I cannot be as articulate as many of the reviewers of this 2-DVD masterpiece but I can surely opine on it.  Filmed in 1976-77 as a TV mini-series and aired on Palm and Easter Sundays, 1977; Franco Zeffirelli (of the fantastically successful 1968 "Romeo and Juliet" adaptation) created surely the greatest of any Jesus Christ movies.

It is obvious that great care was taken to create as faithful and loving adaptation of the Biblical stories of Jesus Christ.  What inspired Zeffirelli to do this, when he did would be something of an interesting story in itself.

The look of the movie, the actors cast, the way it was presented all show the emormous attention to detail and work that went into what is truly a monumental project.

Saving the best for last, the casting of Robert Powell as Jesus Christ is the "crowning glory"; or to use other clich&eacute;s; "inspired", "God-sent", "sent from heaven".  I could not imagine anyone else playing Jesus Christ, but don't take my word on this.  See the DVD.  Exactly how this unknown actor got the role would also be an interesting story.

Other reviewers have noted a few things omitted but hardly a "sin" given the six and a half hours it runs.  This obviously, then, is not something for one night or even two nights, but for a week or more, a few chapters a night, savoring it like the finest of wines; and very probably learning more about this part of the Bible than all the Sunday schools you ever attened.

Now, my prayer, if you will, is that Mr. Zeffirelli will find it in his heart, if you will, to release a "Director's Cut" with deleted parts and scenes restored, if any exist which brings me to a point I wanted to expound upon more.  The look of the movie, given probably not the largest of budgets and with 1976 technology is fantastic, utterly credible.  I'm thinking that Franco, using a little modern technology but without "messing" with the basic look, could create a Director's or Extended version, a la the first "Star Wars" movies.

I literally pray that Mr. Zeffirelli reads this review along with the other positive ones on this site.  He needs to know, that in his arena of art and creativity, he has done something as great as Michelangelo, another Italian, if you will; for Franco Zeffirelli has added significant information about why He was here.