Years after its release, there just aren't many films that even approach this masterpiece. My all time favorite movie. This adaptation of the Thomas Berger novel, stands on its own quite well. Not as raw as the novel, but every bit as satisfying. Dustin Hoffman's portrayal of the 121 year old Jack Crabb, stands out as one of his, and filmdom's great screen performances. Even if one doesn't care much for Westerns, this film is more than just a Western; its an American epic. One of Hollywood's better portrayals of a more sympathetic and human side to the Native-American plight.

From the tragic loss of most of his family at the hands of renegade Indians, to his being raised into his adolescent years by the Cheyenne, this story is both compelling, and at times extremely funny. Raised during his teen years with the strictly religious Pendrakes, Jack enters a new phase of life, and an end-to-innocence, after discovering the infidelity of Mrs. Pendrake(Faye Dunnaway), who never looked lovelier on the big screen. Experiencing life as a Medicine Man, Gunslinger, General Store owner, and taking on his first wife Olga, who he loses to the Indians, after taking the advice of General George Armstrong Custer(Richard Mulligan in his finest role)to "go west."

Returning to his Cheyenne family, he takes his second wife Sunshine. Watching this film in the theater after its initial release, it was love-at-first-sight seeing the actress playing this young woman. It was also one of the most gut-wrenching moments in film history, to watch the brutal murder of Sunshine, and the newborn baby of Jack Crabb, gunned-down by the U.S. Calvary as she flees with baby-in-arm, during the cruel massacre of the Indian Nation. The entire audience was in total shocked silence. But he does manage to rescue his Grandfather, Old Lodge Skins, played by the Oscar nominated Chief Dan George. He then turns Hermit and nearly goes mad. He even manages the impossible, of being the "sole white survivor of the Little Bighorn." From beginning-to-end, a can't miss buy that was long overdue on DVD. Infectious viewing at its best.