"Reservoir Dogs" holds to the hallmarks of solid drama and dialogue-driven plot so well, that this movie could easily transfer over into an enthralling play.

Raw and real. These are the only words to describe the prolific talent of the actors that allowed Quentin Tarantino to have 5-minute dialogues, an 8-minute torture scene, and static backgrounds.

The placidness of Tarantino's background perfectly contracts with the dept, fear, anxiety, forcefulness and sheer unpredictability of the characters, and not to mention the plot. This storyline/ environment contrast starts at the beginning of the film with the failure of the diamond robbery getting blamed on a spying cop.

Essentially, the normal climax of a heist-film has occurred from the start of "Reservoir Dogs". So with this knowledge, the audience does not have to worry about whether or not the scheme will work. We already know it turned into a bloody mess and all the plotters are going through the mutual agony of asking, "What the hell are we gonna do now?"

A major component of the film's drama is played out by the criminals shooting people, and ultimately each other because they are eaten inside and "cut away at' by this unknowing: What's going to happen to them now that their game is busted, people are dead, someone's who was trusted is now a liar, and they could get locked-up or killed at any second?

This question- what are the criminals going to do now-makes the speech of the characters all the more gripping. Because if you listen carefully to the words of Mr. White, Mr. Pink, Mr. Orange, Mr. Blue and the other criminals, you actually hear introspective dialogue.

This is especially the case when Mr. Blue tortures the cop that helped arrest the diamond break-in. Mr. Blue essentially says to the cop, "I'm not gonna torture you to get information, who cares about that now...I'm just gonna torture you because it makes me feel good."

Cursory critics bash this Tarantino film because they do not understand the depth of this torture scene. In fact, Tarantino softens that torture scene by turning the camera away from the screaming cop onto a doorway while Mr. Blue proceeds to cut the cop's ear off. This whole scene is an introspection for Mr. Blue that is not intended to torture the cop, per se, but to parallel the anticipatory torture that all of the criminals/characters are facing.

Ironically, the torture scene, as coolly horrid as it is, is the only scene where a character in "Reservoir Dogs" garners any real control over his immediate mindset and reality. Again, here Tarantino pulls off a plot-driven, drama contrast, i.e. a torture scene that soothes one character's anxieties while bringing the audience closer to the tormented state of mind of all the characters.

As you can see, Reservoir Dogs offers an encyclopedia of ways to study this one film. I wish more films were made with the utter cinematic genius and simplicity that Tarantino used here. Now movies are predictable, drowned in special effects, and made nauseating by poor acting. I applaud the art form Tarantino has put forth and hope that other daring filmmakers and directors will make all and more of the cinematic heresies that he did.

Again, if some play-write ventures to serve up "Reservoir Dogs" at the local Shakespeare theater, I will most certainly come and delight in this mesmerizing display of intrepid directing and competent acting and would advise you to do likewise.