When I was in the fourth or fifth grade, my AG Reading class read a novel by the name of "Tuck Everlasting" and watched a movie based on it. This had to have been about seven years ago and I had really never given the book serious thought since - I mean, who really remembers things they read in elementary school?
Then, I saw the preview for this movie - and so many details came flooding back to me - I remembered character names, the central plot, and even the very last scene. I decided then that I had to see this movie.
My expectations were low from the beginning - I watched "Gilmore Girls" once and wasn't impressed with Alexis Bledel (Winnie Foster) and I had considered Jonathan Jackson (Jesse Tuck) merely a "teenybopper pin-up" who would never have a really solid career after he grew older. Every time I thought about going to see the movie I cringed - I hoped and prayed that they would keep the ending as it was in the book - for that was my favorite moment.
And they did - I have never felt happiness while tears were running down my face, until I went to see the movie. I went alone, for this was a personal experience for me, and I was the first to leave the theater at the end, in fear that others would see the tears pouring out. This was only the second time I have ever left a theater crying, and if you see the ending, you'll probably know why I did. Still, I wouldn't want it any other way.
Alexis Bledel brought so much spirit to the character of Winnie, that I was taken aback. She has certainly impressed me now. However, Jonathan Jackson was the one I couldn't take my eyes off the whole time - his striking, innocent appearance accented the character of Jesse perfectly, and all of his mannerisms, long glances at the camera, and lively nature were euphoric to me.
I was enchanted and breathless by the images portrayed, and by the people represented. Since the moment I left the theater I haven't stopped thinking about it - would I have chosen the same path Winnie did? What would I do if I had to make that choice? After seeing this movie, I remember why my teacher made us read this book so many years ago - and I am thankful that I had that opportunity. So, if you're debating on if you should see this movie, please - take my word for it, it's worth a look. Take a chance, live your life, and see this movie. You just might be glad you did. I am.