I just finished this beautiful, emotional, heartfelt, tearjerker, wonderful, moving, epic, eye-popping, movie an hour ago. And I had to write a review. Well just simple words to describe the emotions I'm feeling right now after experiencing cinematic images that are so realistic in their depiction of human tragedy and lost innocence during war times, whether a civil war or war for freedom. (War in general is fought in my opinion for selfish reasons).
This Mexican Masterpiece was Mexico's official entry for the best foreign language category, and I can't believe that at least it wasn't among the 5 pictures nominated back in 2005. I had to check the 5 movies nominated that year to compare the competition and the one that won was (The sea inside) from Spain. And all 5 movies that year to tell the truth were with strong human subjects. I saw the Sea Inside a couple of years back and its subject touched me a lot , but after finishing (Innocent voices), I have to admit it's rare to see a gem of artistic quality that personifies reality with magnifying glasses like this. Yes , the story of the brutal civil war that plagued El Salvador for 12 years told through the eyes of an 11 year old innocent child was a bullet in my brain from the instant the bullets started firing over the heads of the family in the story.
It's the story of Chava (who's the narrator) whose father abandoned him and his family at the beginning leaving him feeling the responsibility of the man of the house , taking care of his working mother , little brother and sister. The boy playing Chava was so convincing in all his dramatic scenes that I laughed and cried all the way with him, through his happiness, tragedies and losses.
This movie is the truest example of the futility of any kind of War. That during war time human presence is lost and replaced by fear, that faith may be lost and replaced by anger and hate. War is always fought for personal reasons by higher powers who are really the cowards that manipulate the guns in the hands of the purest human souls.
I may agree that there are very horrific scenes in the movie that will make any human soul tremble with agony due to the graphic images they just watched. But this is the purpose of a masterpiece , to open our eyes and make us remember our nature.
I really do hope this movie will be seen by millions of people. OK there are tons of entertainment in movies , but the true message of cinema are in movies like (Voces Innocentes). A movie that is so touching that is heartbreaking.
Finally , this movie made me cry a lot for remembering all the atrocities committed by fools in our world today in all parts of the globe (Whether in the Middle-East , Africa , Parts of Latin America , and others). The higher power isn't immortal and one day it will die like any living soul , so why should it kill millions of innocent souls in futile wars before reaching its point of dying and not breathing. History of mankind is full of blood and unfortunately this blood will continue to flow till the end of days, because the lesson is never learned and History is pushed aside.
Watch this movie, feel it , and pass it to others. It's a lesson to be hopefully learned.