When Errol Flynn was asked to be a cowboy in a western, at first he thought Warner Brothers was kidding. After all, he was the ultimate swashbuckler. Could he really trade in his sword and bow for a six-shooter and be believable?

The movie was DODGE CITY and the director was Michael Curtiz (Casa Blanca). Curtiz was known for big, sprawling, explosive productions that pulled out all the stops and left you breathless. That's just what he did in DODGE CITY, and it is magnificent.

DODGE CITY is the story of the town that men like Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday made famous. It was a town that was the epitome of the Wild West at its wildest. There was no law and order. The big cattle companies came there to sell their beef, and, once there, the cowboys saw it only as a place to have a good time. So, it was no place to raise a family.

Into that town come two cowboys on a drive - trail boss Wade Hatton (Errol Flynn) and his sidekick Rusty (Alan Hale - Gilligan's Island) - and what they find is blatant murder and robbery by the man running the town - Jeff Surrett, played by Bruce Cabot, who holds a grudge against Wade for turning him in for poaching. Ann Sheridan plays Cabot's floozy girlfriend, and Olivia de Havilland plays Abbie Irving, one of the members of a wagon train that accompanied Wade and his men on the trail. While on the trail, there was an incident between Wade and Abbie's drunken brother that ended in his death. Now Abbie, too, has a grudge against Wade.

This film has everything: a cattle stampede, a race between a train and a stagecoach, a barroom brawl, several attempted hangings, lots of shootouts, a runaway wagon, an Indian attack, a train wreck - one exciting event after another, and most of them the first time ever on that scale, and in color. This is the film that all the others copied. When it premiered in the present day Dodge City, it was the biggest premier of any film to date.

You gotta see this one cowboys and cowgirls. And, would you believe it: you can buy it now as part of the Errol Flynn Collection on Amazon for only $29.97 (that's six films for less than $5 each) - or, by itself for $9.97. When I put this one into my DVD player, I have to admit I had my doubts about ol' Errol pulling it off - but he's great, and the movie is magnificent. They don't get much better than this.

Waitsel Smith