Mayasuki Suo's direction in the movie was very risky but came out pretty good

in the end throughout the whole flick.

Close-up camera shots of travelling ballroom dancers--especially in International Standard competitions, where they usually

go around the room in a closed hold--are hard to keep steady. The camera shots in that movie, however,

were pretty good and when you see a dance couple dance

around the room in the movie's dance rehearsals and dance

competitions, most of the time, I feel like I am dancing with them. The result

was a pretty good visual feeling.

The amateur dance competition scene was, to me, an opening to how the Japanese are starting to embrace dancesport. The paso doble dance music seemed like a samba to me. It was the best of both worlds,

even though the dancers were doing paso doble only. The International rumba dance looked like almost any other International rumba dance in other dancesport venues--displays

of love and hate, and spectacular poses and picture lines that

flourish the basic steps, since rumba is commonly known as the

dance of love.

The movie also shows the personal side of the ballroom dance

teacher who had been "dancesporting" in Blackpool. Tamiyo Kusakari (who played Mai Kishikawa) seems to bring the serious side to dancesport with her encounter Koji Yakusho (who played Shohei Sugiyama), especially when Mai

tutored Koji before the big amateur competition.

Naoko Takenaka (who played Tomio Aoki) had a cariacature almost

similar to Scott Hastings (played by Paul Mercurio) in the

1993 Austrailian film "Strictly Ballroom. Like Hastings, Aoki had a strong

desire to go over the edge, be very ostentatious in his arm

stylings and body movements, and go for the most ultimate passion--especially when the rumba is involved.

The flashbacks of Mai's experience in the Blackpool championships were also

effective because sometimes, when you are in the grip of the excitement and adventure of ballroom dance, you want to

get back to dancing when something dosen't go your way.

The camera shots of Blackpool outside its traditional championship ballroom floor was a little unique because you see Blackpool from the outside as well on the inside.