Wow, what a thrill ride...for a helmet special.
Buy this if all your DVDs no longer play and its either this movie or watching WNBA (They got next, right). This movie really sucked. My wife taped it off HBO when DTV gave us a free preview and it was just terrible, like Adam Dunn at the plate. I'm not really sure why she taped it. When we first moved into our apt. and ordered DTV we had five free months of all the premiums. She loved it cause she liked taping movies. I loved it cause I was able to tape Lingerie, Life on Top and my favorite, Sin City Diaries...Oh how I love Max after Dark.
But back to Swimfan (that is the reason why most of you are here afterall). Basically Swimfan it involves this fat porker girl trying to smash out a guy who looks like Freddie Prinze Jr. if Freddie had someone with baseball cleats (maybe Bill Brubacker from "Summer Catch") walked on his face. His face is pretty much as bad as Cameron Diaz...Yes, I know bad...but not as bad as Fergie...jesus christ. Eventually, the porker nails the the Freddie guy in a pool in an awkward sexual position and then all mayhem starts, but there aint no Allstate agent around (CeCe Pedro)! I love to watch the scene cause I dont know how the porker is able to float in the pool and I'm not even sure Freddie's junk would be hard enough to pleasure the porker unless he had two BK Big King's (yes this movie was in 2002 back when the Big King ruled) in his swim trunks. She makes some BS comment about how big his junk is but she cant even keep a straight face when saying it.
After he smashes the porker she goes around trying to break up Freddie and his rather homely GF. This works for a while but then the old GF realizes that the porker really is crazy and forgives Freddie. The porkers odd slightly handicapped cousin helps frame the porker and she gets arressted but manages to kill the pigs that were escorting her to jail or juvenile hall and then she comes back to kill Freddie and the homely GF. Would I recommend this movie to friends?
Yes, if I was looking to no longer be friends with them. I cant believe I wasted an hour + 30 mins on this film when I could have been watching Lingerie, playing NBA 2K11 or thinking about Djokovic! Very bad and Liberace. This Freddie guy cant at and none of the stars are attractive enough to make you want to watch this garabage.
CC
F-U HF10