The movie "Fahrenheit 451" has always been regarded as a strange, stiff movie, curious not only in the casting, but also in the stilted feelings of the main character and abrupt changes in pacing.  I think that is part of its appeal. 
 Ever since it's release in the mid 1960's the film has had a special appeal to the 10 year old in me.  From the afternoon movie appearances on WXYZ TV 7 4:30 pm Movie (edited for time, commercial content, and any suggestion of sexual content) to the occassional late night replay, it's a facinating look at a future society of rules, regulation, control and totalitarianism run rampant.
True, it is difficult to understand Oscar(Montag)Werner's speech at times, and you wonder how he ever linked up with Linda/Julie Christie in the first place... but I think that only helps to underscore his growing sense of not-fitting it, not belonging, alienation, and loneliness. His dying love for her is evident in his frantic attempts to save her, but even in that effort, while the technicians work to casually revive her in the next room, he can only listen in... not actually DO anything to help save the woman he married... as she is restored to a participating member of 'the family'.
There are many images that stay with me, some 35 years since I first saw the film.  I frequently remember the run for darkness in front of the apartment complex/condos... and the errie predictive precursor to "America's Most Wanted" program.... "Let every citizen stand at his front door and watch for...Guy Montag..."
In this modern day of MTV, the obsession with mindless reality shows like "Dog Eat Dog", "Fear Factor" and "The Real World"... we have to wonder how close we have grown to this futuristic world of mind-numbing cable television.  As the 80s rock band "The Tubes" said, "What do you want from Life?  To get cable TV and watch it every night?"
This movie, as awkward as it is and always has been, should be required viewing for every high school literature class... in the hopes that some of the brighter students will recognise their classmates and the dangers of becoming one of the "family".
By the way, did you hear that the new plazma wide screen TV's are  coming down in price? If you rush now, you can buy a second one for Christmas and install it in your family room... then you'll only need two more before you are completely immersed in cable TV 24/7.....
Think about it.
Thank you Mr. Ray Bradbury, Mr. Francis Trufau, Mr. Bernard Hermann, Mr. Guy Montag...