This flick follows in the footsteps of so many romantic comedies with complex premises that in no way mirror real life.  The male lead still lives at home, and all of his friends are also grown men who won't leave the nest.  His parents say they hate him living there but continue to spoil and indulge him -- and all of their friends are parents of kids who won't leave the nest.  Are you sensing a pattern here?

Instead of evicting their home-bound son, the parents overcompensate by hiring a woman to do their job for them.  This part is played by Sarah Jessica Parker, starring as Carrie Bradshaw/Paula -- in one scene, Matthew McConaughey even compliments her shoes.  The token black character also doubles as the obligatory precocious child.  The male characters talk like only male characters in movies talk.  Then there's a strange subplot involving McConaughey's character getting bit by a bunch of random animals, and a totally ridiculous subplot involving a mockingbird.

But what does any of that matter, really.  When you watch a movie like this you pretty much know what you're getting into, and when it stars Matthew McConaughey, who pretty much makes his entire living these days starring in fluff-n-fold movies where he spends most of his time shirtless, you definitely can't expect anything more.  His days of making actual quality films are obviously way behind him.  The extras on the disc are mostly forgettable, but there is a rather interesting feature on "The Failure to Launch Contest" that amused me.  You always hear about random contests a movie runs as a cheap way to gin up free publicity, but it's rare for any of them to have a human face, or visible results.  This contest involved two actors from the film actually picking a person to award with six months of free rent, which is a VERY good prize, and they seemed to pick a deserving winner.

If only the same could be said of the movie.  It's not a winner, nor is it deserving of any accolades, but it's watchable and it kills the time.