The story gets started at a fort in the Sierra Nevada's when a near dead stranger arrives at the fort and tells a tale that sounds very similar to the real story of the Donner party.  But then things get much weirder!  Don't eat that stew!  This movie draws in religious references to  Christianity, American Manifest Destiny, and Native American folklore, to  create an intellectually and mythologically stimulating brew for the  culturally receptive mind.
The humor takes the edge off the horror, and  the horror takes the edge off of the humor, in a brilliant balance that  leaves this movie defying categorization.  It remains far too serious call  it dark comedy, but it still has its fair share of humor.  Some of the more  intense moments in the movie gain an erie and otherworldly tone when  juxtaposed against some of the maniacally joyful music that accompanies  those moments.  The acting proves brilliant!  And the dynamics between  Robert Carlyle and Guy Pierce, hit a compelling range, from curious  interest, to hatred and disgust, and even reaching the depths of thinly  veiled homoerotic situational innuendo.  The rest of the acting was great,  but this amazing duo truly left the most memorable impression.
I think  the unfavorable reviews offered by some of the "professional  critics" more reflects their inability to handle this topic at all,  than any shortcomings of the movie itself.  If you think you may be a  little sensitive about the topic of cannibalism, you have been warned.  I  really don't think that any of the gruesomeness was gratuitous, and  certainly the movie could have been a LOT more gory than it was.  You  simply can't pretend to discuss cannibalism without gruesomeness.  To do  otherwise would have been a Pollyanna whitewash job.  If you have ever  thought about becoming vegetarian, especially for aesthetic and moral  reasons, this film just might push you over the edge!  Unless you have an  unusually "gothic" family or relationship, this isn't your  typical date movie or family entertainment.