The Coen brothers never cease to amaze with their witty stories, excellent casting, and stunning screenplay. One movie in particular, is No Country For Old Men. This movie is very dark and serious, which is unusual for the Coens. Javier Bardem's portrayal of the killer for hire was horrifying. Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones also gave great performances. The Coens also did a great job at planning this storyline and picking the location. The action sequences had me on the edge of my seat, and every scene with Bardem was a "bone chilling" experience. There are some underlying themes the movie addresses, such as the changing times, the border war with Texas and Mexico, the concept of chance and predestination, among various other themes. No Country for Old Men won the academy award for best film and I believe it was the greatest of the Coen brothers genre.
 No Country for Old Men is new territory for the Coen brothers. Their stories usually contain humor with a great storyline. No Country for Old Men is just a dark story with explicit violence and an amazing story. No Country for Old Men was originally a novel by Cormac McCarthy, and it is the first time the Coens have adapted a novel to film. The Coens made a dark comedy before called Fargo, but it still has some humorous moments in it. No Country for Old Men is straight up violence and intense action from scene one to the end.
 The Coens always seem to employ the cast that just fits the movie. Josh Brolin, Tommy Lee Jones, and Javier Bardem all played excellent roles in the movie.  The story does not have too much depth to it overall. There is no background on the characters in the movie. The movie just starts with the story and hopes the audience can keep up. Brolin's character, Llewelyn Moss, is a hunter who stumbles upon drug money from a deal gone bad. Bardem's character, Chigurh, is a killer for hire sent to find who took the money and get it back. Tommy Lee Jones plays an aging sheriff who laments the changing world, and is trying to find Brolin before he gets killed by Bardem.  Bardem is like a machine that kills all in his path, some critics even feel he represents the Grim Reaper, "It is his utter disregard for human life that have prompted some to equate his character to the idea of the Grim Reaper, a comparison that is only mildly appropriate considering many of his actions in the film." (Lovell, www.oscarguy.com).
 Bardem's character, Chigurh, is a cold-hearted monster that believes in fate and chance. He allows some victims to save their own lives based on a coin toss. The only man that ever survives is an unsuspecting store clerk. Almost every scene involves Chigurh killing with his silenced shotgun, and even sometimes, his pressurized rod used to kill cattle. He is a psychopath, but he is deeper than your ordinary serial killer. Chigurh does have some kind of presence in the movie that sends chills down your spine every time he walks in. The scene where Brolin is expecting a killer to walk in is incredibly tense. The second the door lock is blown out of the door you know it is Chigurh, and you are in for a great duel. Brolin and Bardem's duel is one of the best moments of the whole movie. Every time Brolin is about to escape, Bardem seems to catch up and almost kill him. Chigurh's presence has brought chaos to this small Texas town, and in many ways, it's a slaughter. The one part of the movie that I am sure everyone is upset with is the ending. This may be a spoiler alert, so do not read this if you have not seen the movie. The ending has Bardem get in a car crash, and walk away with a bone sticking out of his arm. Then, it shifts back to Tommy Lee who explains a dream he had, and then the movie ends. Many people may be expecting a sequel with an end like that, but that is the way the Coens may have wanted to leave the movie.
 The themes the Coens employ in the movie are intriguing. One in particular is Tommy Lee Jones' character, the old sheriff. He has been on the force for awhile just like his father before him. He has seen a lot being in Texas and on the border of Mexico. He has never seen anything compared to the death and destruction Chigurh has brought with him. Tommy Lee hopes to find Brolin, and save him before Chigurh gets to him. The movie is quite possibly named after Tommy Lee's character who has gotten old and laments the way the times are changing, and how he cannot stop it. The best explanation of this theme comes when Tommy Lee and a retired sheriff named Ellis are talking. Ellis says, "Whatcha got ain't nothin new. This country's hard on people, you can't stop what's coming, it ain't all waiting on you. That's vanity." It gives that sense of an older generation is moving out and making way for the new. No matter what happens, time never stops, people will get old, and younger people will take the reigns, so to speak.
 The Coens also manage to utilize the location of the movie in rural Texas and the time is 1980. The townsfolk are all simple people with thick accents who cannot understand a personality such as Chigurh's. This may be one reason he kills so many citizens with ease. One interesting symbol of the movie is how it takes place at night mostly. The Texas night skies add to Bardem's darkness and personality. He is darkness personified and is like the Grim Reaper. Another symbol of the time is Bardem's hair. It was the hairstyle of the late seventies, and it will forever be remembered because of No Country for Old Men. The Coens also did a good job casting Tommy Lee, since he is a native Texan, and he even grew up close to the area where they filmed. They wanted the sheriff to be from the region since he is the soul of the movie.
 In short, No Country for Old Men is a great movie directed and written by the Coens. The acting is spectacular and the action is even better. The movie may not have as much depth or background as one would like, but it is still a great movie, nonetheless. It is not a movie that makes you think, but it does bring excitement to whoever is watching it. Bardem's character "makes the film," so to speak. He is the driving force of No Country for Old Men. Brolin and Tommy Lee would be lost without him, but it is because of Bardem that I would give this movie five stars out of five.  I can see why this movie got so many awards, and I would like to see Bardem in more films in the future.