"The Postman" is a study in ironies, both within the movie and between the movie and the culture in which it came into being. I believe that is why the reactions to it on this site are clustered to strongly  around "1"s and "5"s, with relatively few ratings  between. It also explains to me why professional critics so roundly  condemned it.
"The Postman" is based on a morally-ironic  premise--that someone can tell and live a lie which becomes the seed for a  great good. 
The characters themselves are ironic: the Postman, who  seemingly doesn't believe in anything but himself yet inspires those around  him to sacrifice themselves for others, and "General Bethlehem,"  who claims to have a guiding vision for the future of society yet kills  individuals without even glimpsing their humanity and causes those around  him to lose sight of any goal except their own survival.
While at the  surface an argument for moral relativism, however, this movie is the least  ambiguous defense of "traditional values" that I've seen in a  theater in many years. All the major themes are there: redemption, honor,  hope, sacrifice, transforming and unselfish love, and even a pretty  distasteful portrayal of the dinginess of modern cynicism and its  accompanying twin, narcissism.
I have no doubt that people with jaded,  proudly "post modern" worldviews are discerning the same  undercurrents in this film. It is almost certainly not the subtleties and  ironies of this complex and interesting film that bother them; rather, it  is likely the worldview that conflicts so starkly with their own. Even  witty dialogue becomes "trite" when you consider yourself to have  advanced far beyond its underlying belief systems (though there are a  handful of lines that almost everyone would agree are trite). Hence the  "1" ratings. Hence the near unanimity of the professional critics  in their detestation of this film.
On the other hand, those who are fully  aware of the negating aspects of modern philosophy and yet still hold to  traditional and absolute values will love this film. Hence the  "5"s. 
Despite some flaws, I *love* this film for its breadth,  its vision, and its ability to make you want to be a better person than you  are while releasing you to be realistic about your downfalls. I agree with  the reviewer who said words to the effect that "those who will like  this film the best are those who can identify with the Postman." 
If  you still have confidence in or even a yearning for the values that have  sustained civilization over the centuries, you will at least get something  out of the time you invest in watching this film. The drop-dead gorgeous  sound track and awe-inspiring scenery won't hurt either.
On the other  hand, if you are one of the "new barbarians" who have no use for  the corny of ideals of truth and beauty, save some time and money and skip  this film. Its philosophy is what makes this movie attractive; you'll be  immersed in the very thing you hate most, for three *solid* hours...