I wish Amazon allowed 4.5 stars because I feel that is what this movie truly deserves.  A lot of people bad mouth Die Another Day and highlight all these things they see as problems.  The truth is, its a very well put together Bond film that utilizes today's technology.  It stars Pierce Brosnan (one of my favorite bonds because of his Dalton-like qualities) and Halle Berry who makes a very interesting Bond girl.

This film has a fantastic story line to me.  Bond is captured, traded back to MI6 but because the organization feels he may have been compromised, he is forced to escape and become a rouge agent of sorts.  There are a lot of twists and turns and things that I did not expect happening and to me that is what good Bond is about.  There is a fencing scene that is very well performed.  To me this is one of the great Bond scenes out of all the films.  I really enjoyed it.

Now for the overuse of CGI...really not a problem in my opinion.  Nothing looks fake to me, this just looks like the Bond of the future.  This whole series has been built on the outlandish and impossible so I feel it is right at home here.  Nothing that takes away from the movie.

Product placement.  A lot of people have complained about the product placement in this movie but I honestly think that is because 1 fanatic recognized it and then spread the word.  As the normal viewer I watched this movie many times without noticing the placement advertising.  Only after someone mentioned it on a forum did I go back and look for it and see it for myself.

There is beautiful scenery going on in this film, as there is in all Bond films.  But this is exceptional.  Very polished, a great variety of landscapes, visually pleasing all around.  Plus, that new technology everyone disliked?  Yeah, you can thank it for this being one of the best looking and sounding Bond films yet.

This also was the highest grossing Bond film until Casino Royale.  All the bad reviews you read on sites are completely wrong in my opinion.  I'm still trying to figure out what exactly hardcore Bond fans didn't like about this movie.  To me there are way weaker Bond films.  I highly suggest picking Die Another Day up!