Based on a true story, the movie is about a pizza shop owner named Joey,(Kelvin Kline) who lived his life as an examplary Italian-American with his wife Rosalie (Tracey Ullman), their two children and Mama Nadja (Joan Plowright), Joey's mother in-law whom he openly despised. Joey also had a penchant for other women and was actively having affairs behind his wife's back. One day, while returning books at the library Rosalie secretly caught him with yet another woman and she realized that her husband had been cheating on her all the while. She got mad and confided with Mama Nadja who came up with the crazy idea of finishing Joey once and for all. A few futile attempts were made on Joey's life as arranged by Mama Nadja which prompted the idea to persuade Devo (River Pheonix), the pizza shop boy who worked for Joey's pizza shop to kill Joey as a favour to Rosalie. When that also failed, they both decided to hire professionals Harlon and Marlon (William Hurt and Keanu Reeves)to do the deed.

It's a romantic movie, portraying a relationship between two people at its best and worst; describing love between a husband and a wife whose passion for each other was long forgotten and how the intention of a good woman who respected her husband enough to allow him to express himself freely to members of the opposite sex was badly misunderstood by her husband. It's full of comedic moments however, sometimes so light that leaves one wishing there's more of it by the time the movie ends. Perhaps there ought to have been more lines, particularly for Devo (River Pheonix) as it might help viewers understand his liking for Rosalie. It might also have helped for Devo to have a goal while he ongoingly pursued a close relationship with Rosalie and her mother by spending a lot of time with them.

The colourful location used in the film that set the mood for love, the hilarious performance of the cast, the stoned appearance of Keanu Reeves who played a sullen drug addict with a conscience and the heartwrenching melody of Non Dimenticar that goes so well with River Pheonix melancholic expression, this movie simply cannot go wrong.