"The Quiet American" is one of the worst films I've seen in quite some time.  There are so many things wrong with this movie, it's hard to know where to start.  The only conceivable explanations for some of the positive reviews of this awful film are the notions that (a) any film about Vietnam must be good, or (b) any film starring Michael Caine must be good.  Believe me, if you suffer from either of these misconceptions, this film will provide the cure.
Brendan Fraser is simply awful in this film.  We have no reason to see how, why and when he fell madly in love with Caine's mistress, to whom he proposes marriage in front of Caine in Caine's apartment literally one scene after just meeting her with Caine.  The romance is nonexistent, and his actions are literally implausible.  Worse yet, Fraser is remarkably chatty the entire film -- when he's supposed to be "the quiet American."  It would have been best had he remained quiet, for every line of dialogue was tortured and contrived.
Next, we have Caine's character -- a lecherous old man cheating on his wife with a desperate Vienamese girl with limited choices in life.  He does not love her -- he possesses her.  It is a dirty relationship, made all the more dirty by his lies, and his breathtaking lack of consideration for his own wife.  We are supposed to be rooting for his divorce to go through so he can make his possession of this plaything a legal right.  Oh, he is also an opium smoker.  This, ladies and gentlemen, is your protagonist.  And our great hope is that he will stay in Indochina, at the risk of losing his job with the London Times, so he can take up space and become a burden to his plaything -- who will now have no hope of escaping her wartorn country.  He is a selfish, lecherous character who plots Fraser's murder.  Again, this is your protagonist.
This film is also extraordinarily boring.  It moves at the pace of a cargo ship up the Mekong.  With the amount of time it takes to build a plot, you would think that you would get a more coherent result.  Think again.
In short, this film is simply awful.  If you like slow-moving, amoral films with no sympathetic characters, inconceivable plot lines, and lightweight political posturing, this is the film for you.  Otherwise, don't waste precious minutes of your life on this thoroughly inane movie.