Rio Bravo is my favorite Duke movie and I could sit here all day and review it.  So I am soley reviewing the DVD treatment.

FILM TRANSFER

Someone said previously that this 'new' transfer was darker than the previous bare bones DVD.  I had my doubts but it's the truth.  I took screencaps of both versions, compared them and this one is definitely darker.  The other version even seems slightly sharper.  This is my biggest beef with this release.

COMMENTARY w/ RICHARD SCHICKEL & JOHN CARPENTER

For being a film historian/critic, Richard Schickel is extremely boring and I couldn't totally trust anything he said after he called the Duke's rifle a pump-action.  He also said "Hawksian" so often that I don't care to hear the word ever again.  Both him and Carpenter are essentially repeating what they say in the featurettes.  It is more about Hawks than Rio Bravo.  Angie Dickinson or someone who worked on the film would have been much better, providing us with some stories.

THE MEN WHO MADE MOVIES: HOWARD HAWKS

The Howard Hawks featurette is pretty interesting and I learned alot (although it has been pointed out as a double-dip also apearing on another Hawks' DVD.)

COMMEMORATION: HOWARD HAWKS' RIO BRAVO

Excellent featurette with alot of interviews including Angie Dickinson.  Very well produced.  I will probably watch it again in the future, which is more than I can say for most making-ofs.

OLD TUCSON: WHERE THE LEGENDS WALKED

This shorter featurette was neat.  I never even knew about Old Tucson and it was pretty fascinating.  This and 'Commemoration' are in widescreen which is hard to come by in featurettes of older movies.

JOHN WAYNE TRAILER GALLERY

Trailers from his lesser-known earlier films including The Big Stampede, Haunted Gold, Somewhere in Sonora, The Man From Monterey and Rio Bravo (of course).  It doesn't make much sense to have these on Disc 1 when the rest of the special features are on Disc 2.

This Two-Disc Special Edition comes with some nice production photos.  If you want more of the physical stuff like that, buy the Ultimate Collector's Edition.

The film itself is unquestionably 5 stars.  But I had to knock off 1 star due to the inferior transfer, pointless commentary and overall awkward layout.  I'll keep my bare bones release for the better transfer and this too for the special features.