In early twentieth century London, Michael and Jane Banks have scared off their fourth nanny in six months, when at last the perfect candidate for the job blows into town. This is the central plot to Mary Poppins, a Disney musical comedy, intended to entertain both children and adults.  The father, Mr. Banks, is a banker, very precise, and a bit of a martinet.  The mother, Mrs. Banks, is a suffragette. The two children wish for something better, and Mary Poppins is the answer to their wish.  She leads them through a number of adventures and introduces them to many people before she influences their father's approach to family life.  In the movie, children are encouraged to use their imagination while parents are reminded what it is like to be a child again thus bringing the family closer.
  The first outing the children experience with Mary Poppins is to the park.  The children do not think it would be fun, but they are in for a big surprise.  Jane and Michael encounter Bert, a sidewalk chalk artist.  The children show interest in one of the drawings so Bert has the children use their imaginations as if they were in one of them.  He pretends to ride a boat in one of the pictures using sound effects with his mouth and his walking stick.  Another drawing is of a tightrope walker in which he once again pretends to be in the drawing.  This makes the children feel they are there at the events.  Then Bert tries to make the children think they can go into a chalk drawing by having them "Think, wink, double blink, close your eyes and jump."  Since that did not work, Mary Poppins stepped in to help everyone experience the chalk drawing.  Mary Poppins and Bert took the children into animated landscapes where penguins tap dance, barn animals talk, merry-go-round horses participate in horse races, and umbrellas talk.  The children come into a fantasy world where everything around them is perfect.  Michael and Jane were encouraged to use their imaginations to get them there.  
  All throught the movie, Mr. Banks is very cold, uptight, stern, and course.  He has forgotten about the simple joys and pleasures of life.  The father is only interested in his job, money, and running the house.  "I'm the lord of my castle the sov'reign, the liege!  I treat my subjects: servants, children, and wife with firm but gentle hand noblesse oblige!"  For him, there is no time for fun and games.  While Mr. Banks is lecturing Mary Poppins he says, "And popping through pictures have little use, fulfil no basic need, they've got to learn the honest truth despite their youth."  
  Towards the end of the movie, Bert helped Mr. Banks realize that ever since Mary Poppins came into his life she was a positive influence, he just didn't see it.  After the children give him their tuppins, his eyes open up to the world and he realizes money and work are not the most important things in life.  Once he loosens up, he gets a position at the bank, became closer with his family, and developes an outgoing and fun side to him.  Therefore his life improves because he let the child inside him come out and be a kid once again.  
 Mary Poppins is a nanny extraordinaire who enriches the lives of everyone she encounters.  All throughout the movie there is never a dull moment; she and the children are constantly out exploring life and living each day to the fullest.  Mary Poppins makes every chore a game and every day a "Jolly Holiday".  She, Bert and the children have a number of magical adventures, which eventually bring the children closer to their busy parents.  Mr. Banks is at first shocked by Mary's bizarre excursions; he would rather his children act like little adults.  But he soon learns that children's games are good for everyone, and ended up leading his family on a kite-flying expedition.  Mary Poppins encourages both children and parents to use their imaginations to enrich the life of a family.