Welcome to Antonio Bay, a small coastal community that is about to celebrate it's 100 birthday unaware that an ancient curse looms over the town bringing with it a night of retribution by a group of very angry ghosts.
 The spooky festivities start early when some poltergiest activity unnerves the central charactors in the film. An eerie, glowing fog engulfs a fishing boat out at sea and the three drunken sailors are quickly slaughtered by the ghosts. Back in town, Father Malone(Hal Holbrook) discovers his grandfathers dusty old diary hidden behind a wall and proceeds to read it, learning the dark secret of Antonio Bay.
 Seems the town's founders dabbled in a little murder. A ship full of leperous sailors wanted to set up a nearby community of their own but the good folks of Antonio Bay were horrified at the thought and set a trap one foggy night that caused the deaths of the sailors, but not before their leader, Blake, swore revenge.
 With this setup told it's a good old-fashioned horror show as the fog creeps slowly towards the shore while a small group townspeople start to clue in that this isn't your run-of-the-mill natural occurance.
 John Carpenter's is at the peak of his directoral powers inducing his film with an atmosphere of dread that nicely contrasts the beautiful landscape the film is set in. The veteran emsembled cast are all fine with sexy Adrienne Barbeau standing out as the radio deejay Stevie Wayne who warns the town of the impending danger. Dean Cundey cinematography is one of the film's greatest strengths.
 Biggest complaint: Since the ghosts are revenging themselves on the decendants of the six men who planned their deaths, why do the dead sailors try to kill Stevie and her son since they are newcomers to the town.
 Dispite this rather obvious loophole in the plot The Fog remains a highly entertaining shocker done by a master director at his best.
 This inexpensive DVD comes with everything fans could ask for including a new documentary, the original making-of docu., trailers, outtakes and more.  The movie is remastered in 5.1 as well as it's orignal mono for those purists out there.  There is also a delightful commentary track with John Carpenter and Debra Hill reflecting on the film.  This commentary is now somewhat bittersweet since Debra Hill passed away in March 2005 of cancer while producing the remake of The Fog with Carpenter.