This is one of my favorite guy films. The Actors are some of the biggest names at that time and icons today. Let's see, Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, John Cassavetes, George Kennedy, Robert Ryan, Telly Savalas, Donald Sutherland, and Clint Walker.  Come on, I'd pay to see a movie of these guys just sitting around playing poker.

Basically, a hard nose "do it his own way" or maybe I should say "a Lee Marvin Type" Colonel is given the assignment of taking condemned or life imprisoned military criminals and turning them into a cohesive group of commandos to be sent behind Germany lines on an impossible suicide mission. Impossible for today's acting pansy's maybe but not this crew. These guys have always been the toughest guys around in movies. Hell, Charles Bronson could take out a battalion of Nazis by himself. And, who else could play the gentle giant named "Posey" that makes Hulk Hogan look like a Smurf better than Clint Walker. 
What's interesting is during the course of the film you begin to believe that all these guys have some type of redeeming character and even though they might be murderous psychopaths, they're all true Americans. 
Lee Marvin is Stupendous in his role as the "Lee Marvin" type as well as all the people in the film. I even like they way they introduced the romance part which is apparently required under all circumstances by the movie studios. They had a party, got drunk and had sex with a bunch of hookers. They should've done that in the Titanic.
Of course the comedic sections are during the course of training these misfits. Once they set out on their mission, then it gets tense and serious. By then the characters are well known and you really want these guys to succeed. I won't give away how it turns out but,who could have played the Psychopath better at the end than Telly Savalas? 
I've seen this movie many times and still love it to this day but, I no longer feel a tear well up in my eye when Jim Brown dies. When I was a kid, I balled like a baby cause that was Jim Brown. Now after seeing what a jerk he's turned out to be, I feel more like good riddence.  Too bad they can't use CGI to put the Late Great Walter Payton in instead. 
Bottom line is this is one of the great all time "war but, have a good time" guy flicks and the DVD is great.