In 1979, Ridley Scott directed the masterpiece sci-fi/horror movie 'Alien'. It came between the first 2 installations of George Lucas's 'Star Wars' trilogy. When it hit the theaters that year, some scenes were omitted. This review refers to the 'Director's Cut', released on the big screen near the end of 2003.

I saw this masterpiece while on holiday in Adelaide, Australia that year. I had seen the original release several times before. The story is well-known; a spaceship crew is summoned by a signal on an alien world they are passing while returning to Earth. Descending to the planet's surface, 3 of the crew members head out to find the transmission and discover a spaceship with a hold full of eggs. While Kane, one of the crew members, is investigating the eggs, it hatches & the parasite inside attacks him. Kane is brought back to the ship with a spider-like creature attached to his face, which later comes off on its own & subsequently dies. While the crew are at dinner, a new alien makes its presence known - in one of the most legendary scenes in movie history. The new alien that had been growing inside Kane grows even bigger after escaping, eventually becoming a terrifying 6-foot scaly monster with slavering teeth & retractable jaws. One at a time, it ambushes & kills the crew, until Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is the only one left alive. She sets the ship on auto-destruct & blows it up after escaping, and kills the alien - or so it seems...

The Director's Cut includes additional scenes on the Nostromo's bridge, as Dallas & his crew listen to the transmission, as well as the well-known 'encasement' scene where Ripley, about to flee the Nostromo, discovers Dallas & Brett encased in a wall by the alien. Obeying Dallas's last command, Ripley kills him & Brett with a flamethrower to put them out their misery. This scene lends a bit of foreshadowing to James Cameron's sequel 'Aliens', which depicted a scene showing missing colonists encased in a wall to be used as hosts for 'facehugger'-type aliens - the type that Kane encountered.

A great set. Fans of the series will LOVE this one!