When I watch horror movies, I expect two or one of two things... To be scared and/or to be at least entertained. I want that bubbly feeling you get when you watch a great horror movie. That feeling we got when we first watched RINGU. Well you aren't going to get it here. It's no masterpiece, but however when was any sequel really good. With the exception of PSYCHO II, INDIANA JONES and maybe the first two PLANET OF THE APES sequels "BENEITH" and "ESCAPE". RINGU 2 is only a film for the "ringworms" and anyone who isn't really into the hype of the Ring series is probably better off leaving this one on the shelf of the rent store.

Some elements of RINGU 2 were worse then what you find in RASEN (SPIRAL), the reject of the Ring series. Though RINGU 2 has been accepted as the true sequel of RINGU, RASEN has one thing that this one doesn't. Sci-fi that makes sense. However, RINGU 2 is much better then RASEN as the actors can both act AND keep us from wanting to kill them for two hours which, is an improvement from the first try at a sequel. Some will say that it doesn't matter what sequel it is you like, it's still a waste of money, time and I'd have had a lot more fun sitting in a boxed room for 98 minutes making up your own sequel in your head! In some cases, yes that's true, but if you think you've been bitten by the Ringu bug then you should watch this movie (and even RASEN if you're dedicated) just don't expect a masterpiece...

RINGU 2 picks up a week after where it left off, Reiko Asakawa's father has been found dead and his daughter had gone into hiding with her son, Yoichi. The police suspect that Ms Asakawa might have been responsible for Takayama's death, if she isn't dead herself. Mai Takano, Ryuji Takayama's (you remember him) assistant and his supposed girlfriend. (Despite the fact [I might add] that there was nothing romantic between them whatsoever and Takayama was still in love with Asakawa... Hinting that it was a one-sided love on Takano's part. Ryuji never seemed love-struck like she was in the flashbacks). Mai teams up with Reiko's assistant to try and track her down to find out what happened to Ryuji.

Okazaki wants to know where Reiko is, he agrees to help. Their travels take them to many places including the mental hospital where they are introduced to a strange doctor named Kawajiri. He harbours theories that emotions can be absorbed and transmitted through water, thus creating electricity. This is a very strange theory that in real life would be dismissed as rubbish, which is probably why Mai walked out on this theory and leaves it in the dark.

After a brief message from Masami, Mai starts to realise that she came find Reiko and Yoichi. Indeed, not long afterwards she finds Reiko as asks her about Yoichi, who has become a mute as can speak. The shock of his father's death has left him completely traumatised. Reiko herself is in morning for Ryuji and her father, and in no mood to deal with Mai.

Not only has Yoichi been a mute ever since his father died, and been doing strange things like wondering about in the town where Ryuji used work and blowing up TVs. Too scared that the police will find her, Reiko pleads with Mai to promise not to tell them where she is.

Mai promises her, and goes to ask the doctor Kawajiri to find out how to help Yoichi. However, after one of the schoolgirls Okazaki was interviewing dies... Mai thinks that Reiko must have had something to do with it, and rats her out...

Reiko and Yoichi Asakawa and Takeshi Yamamura, original stars of the movie were the only ones who held water in this film while the other characters seemed to waste minutes of screen time discussing theories that are never used and are useless anyway. I was also pleased to see some flashbacks that included Ryuji, as he's always a treat to watch.

Rikiya Otaka was great to watch and really gave us true insight to the character of Yoichi. Otaka, at this point being the uncrowned prince of Japanese child actors really makes his mark in this film. The use of his eyes was wonderful and matched up to Sanada's beautiful way of using his eyes to convey emotion. Not only does it stick the feel that these two actors are father and son, but it shows Otaka's talent and that if he keeps working he may become a star himself one day.

The lead female was a real disappointment, mainly because you expect the same strong, powerful and lovable Reiko-job you received from Matsushima from the first. However the writers bumped her down to such limited screen time and replaced with a secondary character from the first film, Mai Takano, who is not as much of a pleasure to watch. In the novel, her role seemed to be as the only acting woman in the tale. However, as you see in the first movie, her presence as the woman was smashed with the presence of Reiko Asakawa. This lives on in the second movie as when Reiko and Mai are together, you still find yourself resenting Mai for her actions and childishness from the first movie. Not because she's not a likable character but because she isn't Reiko Asakawa.

The role of Mai in question has only ever been portrayed as shallow, boring, annoying and just plain pathetic. It's clear they were attempting to keep a strong female presence falls flat on it's face as too many memories of how strong and powerful Nanako Matsushima's Reiko Asakawa makes Miki Nakatani's Mai Takano a very weak character.

Nakatani in question seems to be trying her hardest to make the character of Mai Takano appealing. She is indeed and nice enough person, who wants to help but Mai's help is unwanted, making her seem like an invader to story rather then the new protagonist. Sometimes she seems to be trying a little too hard... However acting was quite good, not Nakatani at her best but still much better then her first a second attempts as Mai Takano in RINGU and RASEN (SPIRAL).

Often, I myself wondered why we didn't see more of Matsushima as her presence was so strong in the first one, she'd keep it in this one. When she was on screen she still seemed to keep dominance over all the other characters despite her little screen time. Her acting is still perfection and she's still a pleasure to watch. As too was Sanada when he made his final appeared. His strong and powerful character still remains centre screen. In the end, it was Matsushima and Sanada who stole the show, not Nakatani and Otaka.

As for the film itself, it seems to never go anywhere. There are some many sub-plots going on that it draws attention away from whatever the main plot is supposed to be. The finale feels suddenly thrown in and rushed. The plot was so full of holes; you could market it as Japanese cheese. It feels like the story was thought up by; pardon my words, a blind chimp on a typewriter that doesn't have an "s" on it.

Though the director was the same as the original, the film doesn't have the same feel as RINGU. Hideo Nakata seemed to be struggling with this film. Don't buy this film if you're expecting a masterpiece, as you'll be disappointed. It isn't worth it until you're a fan of RINGU. A serious fan. Like I said before, you'd have more fun sitting where you are now for the next 98 minutes making up your own sequel. The prequel RINGU 0 however is another story, and one that was more exciting, scarier and entertaining then RINGU 2.

3/5 for trying to be good
4/5 for acting
1/5 for plot

Nice try but only for the fans.