What can I say, I'm a big fan of Winston Churchill. There's not many persons on this planet who can admit their shortcomings and fears; look them in the eye, and make them work to their advantage. He was a walking "how to" manual on how to making shortcomings look a part of why one was able to be even moreso or better than originally declared in the age old question, "What do you want to be when you grow up?"

This movie THE GATHERING STORM shows the homebody Winston and his relationship with the love of his life Clemetine and the way he was perceived in the eyes of each who knew and grew up around him during his days as a speaker of Parliment to his being assigned the Prime Ministership of Britian. Each child's perception is different as well as the perception of Winston's relationship with Clemmie as she was called. The chemistry between ol' "Pug and Pussycat" is something that can't be denied throughout the movie.

The movie shows Winston as human and vulnerable as anyone else living and breathing on his planet which quite possibly hadn't been shown that much for the wide and TV screens. You'll laugh, cheer, wonder, and shed a poignant tear for this unlikely man whose stances were not always embraced by the majority and not only stood by them but he knew how to take the vocalized gestures of doubt and disbelief and turn them into the very fire that inspired him to keep going. He took the arias of doubt and disbelief and he used them to fuel his drive to find out more documented and irrefuted sources of information that would either support their opinion AND how to work around it OR he would take those shards of information and he would make them realize, "This is why I felt that this is the way we should be going on this and I have in my hands the proof that my way is the only way the way I feel we should be looking at this situation MY way is the only way to do so." Then again, he doesn't really raise his voice. He doesn't call his fellow Members of Parliament dirty names nor does he cuss in any of his pleas and speeches. He speaks to them like persons and if he does point out a wrong coming from them, he just mentions the wrongdoing and NOT WHO DID IT.

You need to see this movie. It's the greatest movie I've seen in regards to the time frame presenting itself.