Instead of making another ridiculous self-parody
like "Hannibal", this film recreates the enviornment of fear, suspense, and intelligence present in "Silence of the Lambs". "Red Dragon" begins with a brilliantly twisted scene that shows us how Hannibal Lecter was caught and sent to a mental institution. This film probably does not have as much Hannibal as "Silence", but the scenes with Hannibal are eerie, entertaining, and a little bit humorous. Hopkins does it again with his flawless acting and the other actors are superb also. Ralph Fienees creates one of the most terrifying psychopaths of cinema, Franchis Dolarhyde, THE RED DRAGON. Years after Hannibal Lecter is locked away, Dolarhyde kills two innocent families and violats the mothers (they don't actually show him doing so on screen). Will Graham, the retired-detective who caught Hannibal, has a special gift for getting inside the mind of the serial killer; figuring out what makes the killer tick. So, in order to save innocent families from being murdered in the future, Will returns to his detective work for one last case. Despite Will's fear of the Hannibal Lecter, he visits the cannoblistic psychiatrist in the mental institution for some insight. Dolarhyde, with a giant tattoo on his back of a dragon, is horrifically insane, but he is not just a monster. He has some feelings, and he's probably one of the most sympathetic villains, despite his horrible actions. Francis Dolarhyde was made insane through years of mental abuse from his crazy grandmother (seems a little bit like homage to "Psycho"). When Dolarhyde meets a blind woman whom he has feelings for, it is hard not to give into his murderous insanity. That is a key element in the film; will Dolarhyde go over the edge by killing his love? How does the blind woman make him more sensitive and human?  How will Hannibal have his vengeance on the man who locked him away? These are all interesting details in the film, and add to its appeal. So, in a nut shell, terrific acting, horrificly monsterous scenes, a wonderfully eerie score, and sad but interesting details about the mind of a madman, make this one of the best psychological thrillers I have seen! I recommend it to fans of "The Silence of the Lambs".