I just barely bought this movie on DVD and watched it last night - what a great flick! This one really ranks up there with my personal favorites. I wish I would have seen it in the movie theater when it first came out. I would have been eight at the time, but I guess I missed this one. I don't remember the first time I saw this flick, but all my favorites that I do see on the big screen, always stand out vividly.
Still, for the first time, I got to see it widescreen, as it is supposed to be seen, and it was absolutely amazing, not to mention ten times better than seeing it simply fullscreen. If you get to see it on DVD, I would *highly* recommend it. You can see the scenery much, much better, and its dazzling. The picture and sound quality are great, too.
If there were ever a kid I could relate to, or a character in film, Bastian would be it. He even has a cool name! The movie is based on a story written in German (as far as I understand). I've never read the book, but I'm certain it would be just as good, if not better. Anyway, the main kid, Bastian, is (like me) a little obssessed with fantasy, and loves to daydream. Of course, I can still get away with it, too, since I've got ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivty Disorder - I can't sit still and can't pay attention for too long). Obviously, reading a good book is a lot better than taking a stupid math class, and I'm sure I'd do the same thing he did. As he reads the story, it comes to life to us, and we get to see what is happening in the story. Near the end, the two intermix quite a bit, and Bastian comes to save Fantasia, where imagination is without boundaries.
The movie is truly imagination-inspiring. That's why, after so many years from my early childhood, I can still remember it very well - especially the very end, where he is able to wish as many wishes as he wants. That idea sure took off in my head!
Fortunately, and unlike *most* fantasy flicks we run into, this one is very well done. I've found that there's generally a large division on good fantasy movies - either they are very good, like this one, or they really, really stink (for example, The NeverEnding Story II). The whole idea really works, though the dialouge is there only so adults can follow the plot. The kids couldn't care how it fits together, since there's so much going on that just sparks the mind.
This is a great flick for kids, and for anyone who dreams, or daydreams (like I do), and enjoys genuinely good fantasy flicks. Also another great feature is it's absolutely clean. There's two semi-scary parts: when the dead knight's mask flies open (for a young kid like me, that *was* a bit tramautizing), and when Atreyu kills the black beast - that is kinda bloody for a kid's movie, but oh well - it didn't scare me as much.
The only minor miff I have with this movie is the Childlike Empress. Ugh! Here's a classic case of a child actress trying to act beyond her age (and skills). With most kid movies though, they generally have a young male and female, to appeal to both sexes, so if the girls are turned off with this movie, I can completely understand why. The guys have lots of cool figures to relate to (Bastian and Atreyu). The poor girl certainly tries, but it's pretty obvious at the same time. If it weren't for that cheesy grin, than I'd probably leave her alone. It's not that bad though, but it does seem a bit melodramatic.
Overall, a great flick. I tell you what. I'm glad I have it on DVD, so I can really enjoy it. The trailer on it is a treat. It's the theatrical trailer, so it's widescreen, and it is in fine condition. On some DVDs I've seen, it seems like they pulled the film right from the trash can and didn't bother cleaning it up much (the trailer on Tron, for example). But, like I said, this is a great one to see on DVD, and watch it widescreen, to get the whole picture. It's always fun to go back to Fantasia. The really sucky part is that we can't always stay there. *sigh*