The second season, is absolutley wonderful, probably my absolute favorite of the 5 seasons that presently exist. Seasons 2 and 3 are, in my opinion, the peak of what Sorkin has given us. Especially now that John Wells has really taken over.

 But this season goes beyond any expectation you could have for a show giving you sincere drama and Grade A acting that really pulls you into the story.
 There are a few episodes in this season that would make it worth the money alone, which i list below.

 In the shadow of two gunmen - pt. 1 & 2 - A great two part episode, detailing the previous choas of the shootings and incorperating flashbacks of the senior staff. Definetly not something to be overlooked.

 Noel- My absolute favorite episode of the season. Being forced to see a therapist,you gradually see how Joshs' trauma is affecting him more and more. It really shows a great detail of the complexity and metally unsettled he is underneath his placade surface. You're being brought inside the persons mind and feeling what he is going through. He doesn't find the therapy nessecary and throught the session he continually resists with witty remarks agasint Stan, the therapist. He doesn't like the idea that someone he doesn't know is delving into a disturbing part of himself that he wants to stay away from. Compelling music and cinematography bring the episode to a climax when Josh and Stanley are going over what happend at the Yo-Yo ma concert. Incredibly moving episode.

 The Stackhouse Fillibuster- A lighter episode, still containing great entertaining qualities. CJ, Josh and Sam all write emails to their fathers in the time of the fillibuster, and the scences gracefully move in and out of action and the self-narrative characteristics of the emails.

 Ellie- Dealing both on a personal and professional note, this episode entails the relationship of the President and one of his daughters, after her comments on the Surgeon Generals position in politics.

 18th and Potomac - This episode begins with the tensions of a planned admission to the public that the President has MS. Leaves you hanging a tad when you learn that the Presidents seceratary and long-time friend has been killed in a car accident by a drunk driver.

 Two Cathedrals - If 18th and Potomac left any sort of wanting, Two Cathedrals more than makes up for it in so many ways. The White House Staff awaits the presidents desicion of wether he will be running again or not. Things come to an apparent low when it seems that he might not run.

 The funeral that proceeds most of the episode is very touching, moving and disturbing at the same time. One of the more powerful scenes in the season occur when the President stands alone in the Cathedral, denouncing God as a thug, exclaiming in Latin - "Am I really to believe that these are the acts of a loving God? A just God? A wise God? To hell with your punishments. I was your servant here on Earth. And I spread your word and I did your work. To hell with your punishments. To hell with you."

 The entire episode, Pesident Bartlet has flashbacks of his teen life, from when his relationship with his secratary first started off.

 Things get darkest before dawn towards the end of the Episode, where a distraught Bartlet calls for his dead secratary, and realizes she isn't coming. When suddenly he she walks through the door and "consoles" Jed on what he is going through.

 There are little things in this episode that you absolutley have to pay attention to if you want to get the full affect. If you pay attention, you don't have to wait untill Season 3 to know what his answer is to wether or not he is running for a second term.

 Overall, the best drama i've ever watched. Stunning and remarkable achievments in television, and well worth buying. You don't have to interested in politics to love this show, even though i think it helps.

 It's shows like this that reaffirm your belief that there is still quality programming out there, don't let this season of remarkable episodes evade you.