Usually with the MST3k volumes, there's always one lesser episode included with the two or three good ones, but with Vol XIX, ALL FOUR EPISODES are very very good!  Here's the breakdown:

ROBOT MONSTER:  From the first season, this movie is highly regarded among fans of awful, inept films, usually ranking right up there with Ed Wood's PLAN 9.  I had never seen ROBOT MONSTER (MST version or otherwise) til I bought this set and I must say it's definitely deserving of its fame as one of the worst movies of all time.  The monster is a guy in a Gorilla suit wearing a divers helmet.  He's Ro-Man, one of the Ro-Men from the planet Ro-Man (yes, the movie specifies exactly that).  His mission is to kill the last remaining human family on Earth so his race can inhabit the planet Earth.  Ro-Man sets up shop (which includes a bubble machine on a wooden desk and a wood framed viewing screen which he uses to communicate with his superior Ro-Man) in a cave, then wanders around trying to find the family even though the hole in the ground that they live in is RIGHT NEXT TO HIS CAVE!!!  All this is exceptionally silly stuff, though the film does get dark in places when Ro-Man kills a little girl, then captures and attempts to rape the older daughter of the family.  Even though its barely an hour long, the movie is still massively padded; you'll see "dinosaurs" fight endlessly at the beginning and end of the movie, as well as countless scenes of Ro-Man walking around the desert scrub, looking rather like Yogi Bear as he waddles about.  I've seen  the worst movies MST has ever took on (MANOS, MONSTER A-GO-GO, THE CREEPING TERROR, WILD WILD WORLD OF BATWOMAN, the Coleman Francis Trilogy, etc.), and ROBOT MONSTER is about as bewildering as they come.  The first time I watched it I just turned off the DVD player while scratching my head, wondering what the heck it was that I just saw.  Being a first season episode, this one has slow riffing, and two COMMANDER CODY shorts to compensate for the brief runtime of the  movie, but honestly those things don't matter one bit this time around.  You'll watch this one just for the insanity of the film itself.  Its seriously that odd of a movie.

BRIDE OF THE MONSTER:  Its an Ed Wood movie.  Its an Ed Wood movie that features an aged Bela Legousi, Tor Johnson, and that fat guy that's missing a finger from TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE.  If you've seen PLAN 9 you'll find a similar, lovably inept approach to BRIDE OF THE MONSTER.  You get people rolling around on a motionless rubber octopus as its "attacking" them, tons of stock footage of animals, a guy stuck in "quicksand" that he just hops right out of, a deeply inaccurate stand-in for Bela (featuring platform shoes!), and a nuclear explosion where the surviving characters muse philisophically while standing mere feet away from the blast.  Its almost too easy for Joel and the bots.  Really, a stellar episode, though with all that the movie has going for it, how could it not be?  It also has the first part of the HIRED short, which is quite fun, though I felt the 2nd half was slightly funnier.

DEVIL DOLL:  This Sci Fi era episode features a movie thats actually not that bad for what it is.  Its set in England (or, as Servo puts it, the "land of jug-eared, chinless, stomach-eaters.") and is about a ventriloquist named the Great Vorelli and Hugo, his evil, sentient dummy.  The movie is atmospheric to a degree and the story is competently told.  That said, the movie IS paced a little slow, but there's still plenty to make fun of, from all the potshots directed at the British to the dour, serious tone Vorelli has throughout all his performances (he's hired to ENTERTAIN, isn't he?!).  The back and forth riffing Mike and the Bots provide for Vorelli and Hugo is awesome, starts at the movie's very first scene, and never lets up from there. This is also the episode where Servo transfers his soul into a Toaster Strudel, so the last quarter of the film has a rectangular shadow bobbing around next to Mike in the theater. It all makes for a truly excellent episode.

DEVIL FISH:  Another good Sci Fi episode.  Its kinda a Jaws rip-off about a proto-shark, which is a gravely skinned shark with octopus tentacles, apparently.  The movie itself reminds me of WEREWOLF in that its very very 80's, stars many obviously European people despite being set in America, and attempts a serious tone while having way too many goofy characters to actually be taken seriously.  DEVIL FISH also has some soap-opera antics going on which fuel the riffing fires as well.  Like BRIDE OF THE MONSTER, this movie just has too much weird stuff going for it to be a bad episode, and Mike and the gang really do a great job with it.  Another great episode.

So you get 3 excellent episodes, and a fascinating season 1 ep with this set.  All 4 dvds don't have any glitches or tape hits either, so its clear, easy veiwing the whole time.  A very good box set, one any fan shouldn't be without.