John Carpenter's 'Vampires' is probably the best "modern-day" vampire movie to date.  Unlike films such as 'Interview With The Vampire' (which is an excellent film), which is set farther back in time, 'Vampires' takes place in the present day.  Because the history of the vampire goes back many centuries, filmmakers of the past have set films to this older time frame.  Probably the first and maybe the only silent horror film on vampires is 'Nosferatu' (which has been digitally remastered and re-released on video and DVD).  Originally made in the very early 19th century, 'Nosferatu' gave ideas to filmmakers since then, however for John Carpenter, his idea was a little bit different.  'Vampires' is set in modern-day New Mexico.  The film opens up with a skyview of an old farmhouse that has been abandoned and left to weather away in the dry land.  On a hill in the distance stands Jack Crow, played by James Woods.  Crow operates under the Vatican, and is sent by the church to locate and wipe out any and all vampires in his sector of the United States.  Crow has zero patience, a violent temper, and one goal: total annihilation of all vampires.  To accomplish this goal, he receives help from his team called the "Slayers".  A Slayer is anyone who hunts and destroys vampires, and for Team Crow, the chances of doing this are high.  Crow's team consists of himself, assistant-like Tony Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), a handful of Slayers, and a priest (referred to as "padres").  As the two trucks arrive at the farmhouse, the Slayers prepare to enter the domicile on a hunch that a nest of vampires lurk inside.  For the Slayers, the objective is to rid the shack of vampires.  For Crow, the objective is the same, along with a second.  Crow had received word that a "master vampire" was residing within the house.  Basically, master vampires are those that lead bands of vampires, and are reportedly much stronger and cunning than an average one.  It is believed that if a nest of vampires are located, then their master is sure to be with them. As Crow cautiously leads the team into the house, their first surprise (besides a dead body) is an attack by a female vampire.  As we have seen in vampire movies of the past, there are several ways to kill a vampire, however in 'Vampires' there are only two, one of which can only be done in a limited amount of time: a wooden stake through the heart and direct contact with sunlight.  As Crow fires his crossbow into the vampire, Montoya eagerly awaits outside.  The arrows are connected to cables, which are attached to the front of one of the trucks, which is then pulled via remote by Montoya.  The female vampire is yanked outside, burns in the sun, and is finally sent to eternal rest by the priest.  Crow and crew clean out the rest of the house, with a total of nine slain vampires (jokingly called "goons" by the Slayers).  Crow is satisfied, but not completely, for the master was nowhere to be found.  As Team Crow drive off into the sunset, just in time, a beastly hand reaches from out of the ground. In celebration of their victory, the team heads to the Sun God Motel, for a night of much deserved booze and prostitutes.  As the party carries deep into the night, a figure in black walks across the hotel lot.  He is Valek, the master vampire that Crow was in search of.  A former priest who turned against the church in the 16th century, Valek makes his appearance by slaughtering the Slayers and prostitutes one by one.  As the only survivors, Crow and Montoya barely escape the carnage, and run out to the trucks.  What they find is Katrina, the only surviving prostitute who was bitten by Valek prior to his massacre.  Crow grabs Katrina, as she will provide a great deal of help for Crow and Montoya.  When bitten by a master vampire, the victim can telepathically see what they see, hear what they hear, and feel what they feel.  With this, Crow can seek out and destroy Valek.  After a rough night, the daylight brings two scenarios: Crow heads back to the hotel and disposes the bodies, and Montoya and Katrina shack up in another hotel until they hear from Crow. If I was to disclose anymore information, then I would be giving away the movie.  However at this point, questions may start to arise such as how Valek knows Crow's identity, why Crow has such a deep hatred towards vampires, and what Valek's intentions are.  What also adds more "western style" to this tale is the film's soundtrack.  Carpenter composed most of the music himself, and it varies between hard blues rock to soft acoustic ballads.  I am pretty sure that you will like 'Vampires', regardless of what kinds of movies you like.  I hope you enjoy the movie.