I remember seeing this when it premiered: a big theater in Hollywood; I think it was The Egyptian.  Sold out.  Haven't seen it since, until the other day, courtesy Netflix; funny feeling to have forgotten about half of it.  I liked it, but it was somewhat disappointing at times, especially if one is of a mind to consider it as belonging to the category of five-star productions.  It disappointed me a little back then, too, but now I think I can put my finger on why.

If one only is exposed to the soundtrack -- the Broadway soundtrack (as I was, since my mother played it all the time) -- one builds up a picture of the story that isn't borne out when one sees the whole thing.  The numbers run about 45 minutes and the non-number parts run to about two hours - the numbers are outnumbered -- and what's more, about all them have an upper feeling to them, even ones, such as "Just You Wait" that are, well, combative.  The rest of the drama is often rather sombre in tone, and marked by frequent conflict -- angry outbursts often - between Higgins and Eliza.  Well, it's drama, after all.

Drama, yes, theater drama, and the producers seemed often at pains to keep everything as theatrical as possible (perhaps the idea was lurking in the background that theater is superior to cinema (a false notion)).  For instance, they never went on location, and perhaps only one scene was shot outdoors, and that was at night.  The horse racing scene at Ascot is not going to make anyone forget the chariot race in Ben-Hur; couldn't they have gone to Ascot, or at least inserted some stock footage of a real race?  All the scenes which were supposedly outdoors in daylight were obviously really indoors on a sound stage, and consequently the lighting looked phony (as it always does in such scenes).  Details like that add up.  The problem is that once a story gets made into a movie, the movie has to stand on its own two legs as a movie, which means it has to have what Kurosawa calls "Cinematic Beauty."

To me, that means the movie has look good visually, move visually, and coordinate with the sound, especially the music.  This movie does all that, but it's a little below average, especially on the visual score.  There is an absence of a pleasing painterly composition within the frame (in contrast to what one sees in movies directed by Orson Welles, for instance); it often seemed as though they were blocking the scenes exactly as if it were a stage play, and then setting up the camera, and aiming it in the general direction of the action and hoping for the best.  I don't remember any music occurring outside the numbers, and instead, there was talking, basically at all times.  Even the look of the numbers is static.  In "Wouldn't it be Loverly" Eliza is sitting down for the first third of the number, and the camera isn't moving either.  Then she gets up and dances about, but the camera is so far away that the resulting motion in the image is rather subdued.  And there were only five or six cuts through the whole number.  So it's very static, especially compared to a music video, or even The Sound of Music.  So, if this story had been made into a ballet with average choreography, or an opera with average music, would anybody be seriously thinking of giving it five stars?

On the plus side there is Shaw's story, which is very strong: one might almost say mythic.  And there are the numbers, perhaps the best set of numbers in any musical: one classic after another.  The casting also is very good.  Audrey Hepburn and Marni Nixon do very well.  Rex Harrison, of course, owns the role of Higgins (without him they didn't have a movie).  I can only be wistful regarding the peculiar magic of the Broadway cast, since that was before my time.  It's certainly slick with regard to its so-called production values -- especially the wardrobe, which is often fabulous -- but that is mainly a matter of budget and technique, as opposed to artistry.

One other thing: the ending gnaws at me.  They didn't kiss.  Although that trick worked in The Apartment, here it seems a little too cute.  In El Cid Charlton Heston got to kiss Sophia Loren, and in Ship of Fools Lee Marvin (of all people) got to kiss Vivien Leigh (there are advantages to being an actor, it seems).  But this...needless to say, is not going to make the Cinema Paradiso highlight reel.

And it didn't deserve to win over Dr. Strangelove.