(Note- this is a general review of the whole series- no spoilers though, don't worry!)
First, the story in brief (I assume others have described it in more detail): a young(ish) swordsman, Himura Kenshin, becomes a rurouni to leave behind his dark past as an assassin, and atone for the deaths he has caused.  His travels lead him to the Kamiya dojo, where he falls in with Kaoru, Yahiko and Sanosuke.  Old, and new, enemies make appearances, tension-filled fights ensue, mirth abounds, and Sanosuke just keeps on chewing on that fishbone of his.
  So, why watch this series?  
  Because it is quite simply one of the best anime series ever made.  I've seen a fair few animes, from pure shoujo (like Cardcaptor Sakura) to darker contemplations (such as X or Grave of the Fireflies), but this one is my firm favourite: it mixes laugh-out-loud humour with a deep and involving plot, with just enough romance to keep you smiling and the kind of action sequences that will have you gripping the edge of your seat.
  The end result is an amazing and fiendishly addictive series.
  I agree with those who think the Kyoto arc (the middle section of the series) is the best part of this anime: the battles are simply incredible and the character development leaves you feeling genuinely moved, as characters deal with their pasts and work through their inner and outer battles, without drowning you in long-drawn-out angst.  The most notable example is the fight between Kenshin and Soujiro, whom I regard as one of the best supporting anime characters of all time.  
  Character design is great, and though the animation itself is not amazing, it works well in context and is more than pleasing enough.  It is worth noting that extra effort is made on many of the fight sequences, making them particularly fluid and detailed in comparison to the general level of animation of the series.
  One special thing worth mentioning is the music: this series has an excellent soundtrack.  There's a great mixture of day-to-day cheerful tunes, as well as haunting scores and forceful, moving battle music.  
  I would personally recommend watching it subbed- the dub is good enough, but I can't help but favour the original Japanese voices over the American version.  Some have said Kenshin's Japanese voice is not 'manly' enough, but I've always admired the way he speaks in a light, easy tone one minute, and drops to a deep, serious tone the next.  It reflects the opposing assassin/rurouni sides of his personality really well.
  Overall, I have never been so deeply touched by an TV show as I was by this series, or found such a well-rounded mix of all the best elements that go into a great anime.  Needless to say, be prepared for late nights: this anime will keep you up until the early hours.