After the brilliant last two seasons, season 5 turned out to be an anti climax, well it's good, it's just not as good as what came before!!!

Though you could almost feel sympathy, after the show seemed to be heading for cancelation in its fourth season it was decided to merge both elements of seasons 4 and 5 together, so both were merged as one season explaining the seasons rapid pace.

This actually made season 4 an excellent season, my personal favourite because of its face pace, everything happened, there was never a boring moment!!!

But in the last minute WB's decided to give the show a fifth season, great news...but the damage had been done, it was now back to the drawing board, start again, a whole rethink, and they needed a script, and quick. There are times during the series when you think...hmmm they should have rethought that, if anything some parts of S5 will seem like a rushed afair, and perhaps given more time and thought it could have been better!!!

And to make things worse thanks to a dispute with the management Claudia Christian who played Commander Susan Ivoniva was fired (she does appear on the final ever episode, but that was actually recorded during season 4 shooting) and the replacement was Tracy Scoggins who would play Captain Lochley. This was nothing new for B5 they changed their commander from Commander Sinclair to Sheridan as early as season 2!!!

But like Sheridan, Lochley needed time for its audience to warm too!!!!

In some ways B5's S5 is similar to S1 a slow build up, but at the end it's brilliant, especially the Centauri-Alliance war episodes, this was like having the old B5 back!!!

Also Garabaldi's return to alcolism was a great story arc, and his, but again this happens at the end of the season!!!

On a negative, the telepath story, bad move, although this explains the telepath war, I just didn't like Byron the so called good guy martyr and I was actually happy when he died, though again Lyta Alexsandra's move to craziness is kinda good, you kinda saw it happening at the end of season 4!!!!

Some notes I made on B5!!!

1. Sad/happy ending- The ending is amazing, B5 is blown up, Sheridan dies, no one sure about their future, but I think this really is a great outtake on life, we live, do something good or bad, but then we die, I've never known a Sci-fi or any TV programme to deal with this subject in such as way!!!

2. More unrequited love- Lyta and Zack- though Lyta shows no interest to be honest, she sadly goes for Byron, ohhh, why you silly girl why???

3. Londo & 'kar- This is most tragic, as Londo seems to be at a kind of redemption with G'Kar his life is taken from him forever by the Drakq keeper, he isn't dead but he'd might as well be!!!

4. Vir- I can finally see the making of an emperor, nothing I had ever seen in the previous 4 seasons!!!

5. Lennier- Another excellent character- it seems his obsession with being Delenn's special one, and his jelousy of her affections, or I'd say preferance over him could get him killed!!!

6. Sheridan & Delenn- It seems that Sheridan has become the job, though he tries to be a family man, the things that happen around him make this nearly impossible, luckly for him though his wife does the sam job!!!

7. Garibaldi & Lochley- These two's bickering's was one of the highlights of season 5 in my opinion!!!!

8. Hell, you've got the other 4 seasons, season 5 has its moments (especially near the end) and is worth buying just for that I think!!!