First, do not go into the movie with expectations of "Charlie's Angels."  Yes, there are three women in here, but it is not an HK rehash.
My fiance gave the movie 3 stars for the cool action sequences and the strong female characters (she hates the whiny damsel-in-distress types), but she felt that the movie was weak in story and pointed out a few plot holes.  I, myself, thought that the development of certain characters was lacking.  However, I  forgave that lack of certain character development because of 1) Shu Qi and Zhao Wei, 2) Awesome action and did I mention Shu Qi and Zhao Wei?  The strength and knock-out beauty of these two women made the movie.  It was certainly nice to be able to watch the movie under the guise of it being a tough-chick flick that women love.
The movie starts off slow at times, but when the action starts picking up, you start to ignore some of the questions raised at the beginning of the movie.  While in general, the action was kick-butt, the wire use was poorly done in certain scenes as were the use of doubles, but since Shu Qi and Zhao Wei aren't exactly action stars in Hong Kong, I didn't expect them to do their own stunts or fight scenes, although in some close up shots, they did hold their own very well.
I don't think this movie deserves a full five stars because of certain character development problems and some story problems, but I didn't go into the movie expecting an Oscar-caliber movie.  It is what it is--a great way to spend a mindless Sunday afternoon, watching beautiful women wearing revealing outfits shooting, blowing up and beating the bad guys senseless.
Like my title mentions, this is the quintessential guy movie, with cool gadgets, lots of computers, tons of action (you name it, it's in there:  car chases, hand-to-hand combat, guns) and beautiful women.  And the movie is sexy without being degrading (no nudity, bikinis or lingerie), so guys, your girlfriends won't smack you on the head for watching it (except for a certain shower-fight scene).
I borrowed this movie from a friend and I will buy it from Amazon, and I can honestly suggest others to buy it, too.