It is with much trepidation that I find myself writing this review after watching the last episode of season 4.5 last night.  I never watched BSG until last April when season 1 on DVD was loaned to me from a friend.  I was instantly hooked and have been blessed to pretty much watch the entire show all the way through in a matter of a few months.  I have just loved this show from the start.

But I must be honest and say that season 4.5 did not meet my expectations for how I thought this show would end and hence my trepidation in writing this review and giving it 4 stars.  As many reviewers have already pointed out - there have been a lot of questions left unanswered or the answers to some questions given simply were too simplistic if not kryptic.

To put it bluntly - the writers dropped the ball.  But I find I cannot give season 4.5 less than a 4 star review simply because the writing was the only issue I had with the show.  The acting talent/abilities of all involved is enough to give it a high review - particularly the talents of Mike Hogan (Col Saul Tigh) whom I thought was brilliant.  I had never heard of the guy before watching this show and from the beginning I have been extremely impressed with him and he peaks in season 4.5.  I truly believed Hogan was the best of the bunch and the bunch was really good.  Edward James Olmos (Adm Adama) was also incredible switching from the role of a strong almost untouchable leader to a man who privately gives in to his own emotion and feelings.  Olmos does an esxcellent job of playing the part.  I could go on and on and rave about all of the actors in this show - they all just blew me away.

Additionally the show's special effects and production were excellent.  The space battle scenes were breathtaking - particularly Galactica's last hora.  Everything looked believable - even the robotic cylons looked better in season 4.5 than they did at the beginning.

So despite the less than spectacular ending to this excellent series - I highly recommend it never-the-less.