I can spare the gentle reader many details, as I am sure they'll glean the overall plot structure of the movie from the numerous other reviews here.  
I think this movie spends its time toying with the thin line between love and frienship.  But, in masterful fashion, you're never shown this as the author's or director's intention.  Instead, we are made to appreciate the main characters...who are easy to identify with.
These 2 'boys' are on the verge of being legal adults.  Their pursuit of an older woman, introduces a voice of reason to their common adolescent antics. 
Ultimately, they allow childish jealousy to create a veil of contempt for each other.  The ensuing rollercoaster of events brings adult viewpoints into their lives...literally strangling away the loosened threads of adolescense, leaving them with the taught constricting tapestry that is 'society.'  And, it happens so fast as to leave the viewer wondering what had just happened.  Unfortunately, you know what just happened...and you feel the same emptiness that the characters happen at the same time.
I likened it to The Sixth Sense (M. Night Shamylan), in terms of the ending.  Mainly, because the story is woven in such a way as to titillate while you are being made to care about the characters.  You assume something will be happening throughout but, when it does, you didn't expect it at all...and then, it twists yet again to leave you sitting there in awe.  In the end, the events happen quickly and briefly and they make SO much sense, that you are literally left stunned that you didn't actually see it coming.
I'll draw from another review to succintly describe my feelings as the credits began to roll.  (paraphrased) "The author and director paint upon a canvas as we watch.  When they are finished, we are left with the beautiful work, framed and silent."
The acting in this movie is absolutely incredible.  Continuity left a bit to be desired, as their trip to the beach takes days, and nobody ever discusses anything regarding the trip itself.  Yes, there's a lot of nudity...but I'll simply echo the common dismay at American puritanical cinema.  No, this isn't American...but I had to buy the unrated version separately, since I didn't know we had to [alter] the original to make it...uh...'safe' for American's to view.  :)
I strongly recommend this movie!!!  Get the unrated version if you can though.  Movie ratings are not required, and often result in robbing the viewer.
I watched this movie 3 days ago...and I just can't get the ending out of my head.  It really makes you think, and reaffirms the melancholy of having society's mandates negatively affect us.