The San Pebbles is quite possibly the best movie you never heard of.  Shot and released in the mid 1960's by the superlative director Robert Wise, the movie was unfortunately a bit too much ahead of its time, and its subtle anti-Vietnam War message put a lot of viewers and critics of the time off. As a result, this film never got the attention it so richly deserves.
Starring Steve McQueen, in what many believe to be his best acting effort ever, the movie shows how good intentions, a lot of ignorance, and unchallenged political and military policy drew the US into unfortunate involvement I the Chinese revolution of 1926.  McQueen plays Jake Holman , a skillful but fiercely independent sailor who joins the "sand pebble" crew of the U.S.S. San Pablo, a Navy gunboat patrolling the Yangtze River on the eve of the Chinese revolution. The San Pablo's inexperienced captain (Richard Crenna) obsessively defends the Navy's mission--however unnecessary or unwanted--to protect American missionaries and businessmen, blind to the more dangerous implications of American involvement with China's opposing political factions.  Any of this sound vaguely familiar vis-&agrave;-vis Vietnam?
Although Holman would prefer to simply tend his boat's engines he becomes involved with a local missionary/teacher (a very young and breathtakingly beautiful Candice Bergen).  That relationship, the romance of his on board buddy, crewmate "Frenchy" Burgoyne with a local Chinese woman, and his friendship with a local "coolie", Mako, draw him into the realities of the local situation, with catastrophic consequences.  Holman's anguished "What the hell happened?" is a question that would be asked often, and often with even more anquish, as the `60's-and the war-- wore on.
Featuring one of the best supporting casts ever assembled, extraordinary acting and direction, a wide ranging and consuming story, exotic locale, amazing action and adventure and tremendous scope and intensity, The Sand Pebbles stands as one of the great epic movies of all time.