"Dirty Harry" (1971), as an action film, is quite unique and definitely in the upper echelon of the genre. The reasons for its success, on a purely technical level, can be found in the direction, cinematography, and editing ( the latter maximizing the laser like focus of the plotline ). 
San Francisco, as many times as it has been used as a film site, is showcased spectacularly. Director Don Siegel's excellent work is a model of how to maximize the potential of location shooting. 
Lalo Schifrin's haunting musical score fits the film like a glove.
With regard to acting, Clint Eastwood ( with typically effective subtlety ) gives just enough hints of Inspector Harry Callahan's interior life (a widower, wearily independent detective, sympathetic to the "common" man ) to allow the viewer to fill in the rest of the details. "Less is more", while a clich&eacute;, does accurately describe the minimalist style with which Eastwood brings substance to the character. 
The main storyline is extremely focused ( no distracting subplots ), the action sequences displaying a practically unrivalled tension ( e.g., the dizzying cross-town rush with Callahan as "bag man" carrying ransom for a kidnapped teenager ). Andrew Robinson, as the killer "Scorpio" ( obviously modeled on the uncaught  "Zodiac" murderer c. 1970 )  animates one of the most evil characters in film history. We know nothing of his name or background; he functions anonymously, a destroying plague killing randomly and effectively hidden in the midst of urban society. In a chilling and critically important scene ( an effective emblem of ironic "displacement" ) "Scorpio" wears a belt buckle modeled as a "peace sign" while smilingly looking over a playground full of the same kinds of children he has recently murdered. 
Since it is so often brought up, it is proper to spend a few moments on certain "political" objections raised about the film. Many reviewers continue to parrot the notion that "Dirty Harry" is a "fascist" film ( this accusation was first implied by the late film critic Pauline Kael ). The film was stamped "Nixonian" in a jibe clearly designed to label it as siding with the "oppressors" ( "law and order" campaign themes ) against the ( typically unquestioned ) revolutionary purity of "the people". To this day various "anointed" critics tend to regurgitate this line as if it were actually true, revealing ( among other things ) an unfortunate tendency to reduce every element of human life to the realm of politics. To this reviewer, such attacks reflect an attitude stemming from an affliction once termed "radical chic", a condition common to a certain class of intellectuals. Valid criticism should be directly linked to the content of the movie ( citing specifics ), not relying on half-baked media generalizations. And as far as the term "fascist" goes, George Orwell long ago noted the essential meaningless to which this word had already been reduced through repeated misapplication ( in a fate that has since befallen many other words, "fascist" is now commonly used to batter into silence those who dissent from a given line of thought ). On the most basic level, Harry Callahan is concerned with the innocent victims of violent crime, who were ( and are ) often denied justice due to legal machinations ( "penumbras" ) applied by monomaniacal civil libertarians whose self-proclaimed concern for "rights" is often a canard betraying a fatefully flawed  ( not bearing the light of reason ) allegiance to an unconstrained ideological "vision".
To conclude: "Dirty Harry" is a brilliant action film. If excitement is all one needs, the film delivers in spectacular fashion. If one wishes to "probe" further, it also works as a ( humble ) meditation on our "fallen" world and ( necessarily ) imperfect human justice.