It's ironic that the word for the planet's largest ocean means "peaceful" when the Pacific theatre of WW2 has become synonymous with probably the bloodiest and most ferocious warfare in human history.

Spielberg's 10-episode "Pacific" miniseries in homage to the servicemen who fought against the Japanese in that enormous theatre of war is inevitably compared to its sister-series, the seminal "Band of Brothers" - a serious contender for the best-ever TV drama of any genre. "Pacific" has proved to be more controversial than the almost universally praised BoB for a number of reasons. Here's my take on it.

Inspired by Stephen Ambrose's book and with the majority of survivors staying in contact as a cohesive group of veterans who had shared the same experiences in the same unit at the same places and times, BoB was an exceptional opportunity to follow the continuous month-by-month narrative of Easy Company's time in the European theatre. These factors worked in its favor to allow for the realization of a novelistic story developed over 10 hours of TV, diverting only to focus on this or that individual week by week as Easy's campaign took them across Europe in 1944-45. We got to know these men, to care about them and understand them.

In contrast, the source material of "Pacific" comes from the stories of three separate individuals: Medal-of-Honor winner and national hero John Basilone killed at Iwo Jima, and survivors Eugene Sledge and Robert Leckie who both later (much later) wrote best-selling memoirs about their WW2 experiences in the 1st Marine Division. This more ambitious concept makes for a somewhat fractured narrative, especially after episode 3 set in Australia when the stories of Leckie and Basilone diverge. On first viewing the series, it's not easy for the viewer to stay with who everyone is, especially some of the secondary characters, or to care about them. This definitely improves if you view the series a second time but it must be said that the overall concept, direction and editing might have made a slightly better job of this.

Another issue is the extreme contrast between episodes focusing on the uncompromisingly violent and horror-filled combat-zones and those which take place in the USA (mainly focusing on Basilone's time there as a medal-winning national hero being used to sell war bonds, falling in love and getting married etc.), Melbourne (the whole of episode 3) and the Pacific R&R base at Pavavu, including Leckie's time in the hospital. I think in truth this works quite well: this is how the Pacific War was conducted and the format illustrates how extreme was the experience these guys went through whilst fighting the island campaign and how it affected them psychologically. We're shown vividly that compared to the taken-for-granted comforts of peacetime life, being in these island battles was like being on another planet, or entering the Gates of Hell, and it was impossible for anyone not there to even begin to understand what it was like. The contrast is extreme, and illustrated well.

A point of objection from some is the amount of profanity in the script. The language is realistic and how these guys in that situation talked: however, it might create some parental-child-viewing decision issues. The combat violence is as extreme as we've ever seen on film: heads blown off, limbs blown off, guts ripped out, Japanese soldiers burned alive. The marines, and the audience, get used to this level of carnage very quickly. As Spielberg says of this series:

"It's brutal, and it's honest, and it's right there in your face - as it was for them."

Heated debate has been generated here on amazon and elsewhere over the graphic depiction of "atrocities" committed by marines in combat situations. Some viewers find this actually offensive, and it puts them off the series. Well, gold teeth WERE removed from the mouths of dead (and not always dead) Japanese soldiers with bayonets and collected by marines: this is attested by Sledge in his memoir, and by other veterans. The reasons why marines eventually behaved this way was because they were forced to witness persistent Japanese Army atrocities on civilians and captured prisoners, and this was not (in my opinion) explored as fully as it might have been. Japanese soldiers would never surrender, or hardly ever. They fought to the death. The Bushido code created a ruthless, murderous, cruel and fanatical enemy who fought with a suicidal ferocity found in no other army in WW2, and to prevail against an enemy like this US servicemen simply were forced to adapt and do likewise. The process which led to this could have been explored with a bit more illustrative detail.

The acting is excellent throughout, often understated and subtle. All the three main leads are superb, especially James Badge Dale playing Robert Leckie with irony, intelligence and wit. Again this is more appreciated on second viewing. Even Rami Malek playing "SNAFU" Shelton who initially comes over as a kind of hard-as-nails psycho type mellows as we get to know him; his character works better on second viewing to reveal him as a bit more complex and nuanced, with a good and caring side, who has learned to cope effectively with the horror of his situation and the continuous loss of friends in his own eccentric way by building a hard shell around himself.

Is "Pacific" the equal of BoB? Wrong question. It's different. BoB has a kind of shining nobility personified by the integrity of Dick Winters, played to perfection by British actor Damian Lewis, which ran like a seam of gold through the series. At the conclusion set in late 1945 in Austria, with Lewis' voiceover relating how the survivors of Easy's campaign returned to civilian life, the audience feels genuine heart-affecting emotion. In contrast, by the conclusion of episode 9 (on Okinawa), "Pacific" leaves the audience with something of a downer, drained and dispirited with little to mitigate the relentless carnage, the filth, the dismembered and rotting bodies and marines gradually becoming psychologically more unhinged as their buddies are killed off one at a time. Were these sacrifices worthwhile? There's little indication that any of the surviving marines felt they were. The final episode 10, showing the guys returning home in 1946 and rebuilding their lives, is an excellent and valuable bookender to the story and goes some way to mitigate the gloom, but does not succeed completely in doing so. Don't miss it.

Worth seeing? You bet. Watch it twice; it's better the second time round when you have absorbed the mood and start to know the characters better. The extras on the Blu-Ray edition, including the "enhanced viewing" option (consider watching the whole series a second or third time with this facility engaged) are truly excellent. The bios on disc 6 are well worth seeing and bring the real people to life. The musical score is sombre, epic yet understated: near perfection.

I'd rate this series about four-and-a-half stars, which is pretty good. It has a lot going for it, but is unlikely to leave you filled with warmth and nobility as did BoB, feeling it was all worthwhile. However if you haven't seen "Pacific", I'd strongly recommend you do. If you tried to watch it already and abandoned viewing part-way through because of any or all of the reasons explored above, give it another try. This series is a notable achievement with its own special character, and it will likely endure the years well.