Intermission is a comedy drama, which deals with the hard and interwoven lives and loves of small town criminals, dubious cops and an Irish gang. This is probably the reason the MPAA (Motion Picture Association America) rated it with an R and FSK only allowed grownups to watch this movie. The director of this movie is John Crowley, who has done a great job in depicting the unique city of Dublin and Mark O'Rowes script. And although the movie has multiple plotlines Crowley ensures the viewer to never lose track of the story.
The films starts off with a flirty Lehiff (Colin Farrell) bewitching the cashier of a shop, just to punch her in the face and take all the money. In the first and very disturbing scene one can see at the first moment that Intermission is not going to be a film that deals much with traditional Ireland but rather with contemporary stereotypes of the Irish. When Lehiff runs out of the shop, the music starts simultaneously. In this scene and also in many other scenes in which Lehiff appears, music creates tension and suspense. But the music only accompanies Lehiff, otherwise music is played very seldom and if so, only for background noises and not for special effects like in typical Hollywood movies.
Speaking of Hollywood movies Intermission is the total opposite to it. There are no special effects, unmanageable stunts or absurd storylines. This movie rather depicts the normal life of these people living in Dublin. A further difference appears in the area of lights and shots. For example look at another crime/action movie with Colin Farrell like Phone Booth there, the actual crime sequence is very fast cut. In contrast, the crime sequences in Intermission happen in real time and not that fast that nobody knows what is going on anymore. There is also no light on important parts, everything is light up equally and naturally.
In the next scene, the viewer is introduced to two other important characters, John (Cillian Murphy), who is a young man working in a supermarket and who just lost his girlfriend Deidra (Kelly McDonald) and Mick (Brian F. O'Byrne), the bus driver. This scene already deals with a stereotype about the Irish. The Irish are known to be very friendly and open-minded people, but Mick is shown to be very unfriendly and annoyed by the passengers. He and an older passenger have a short conversation, which is full of unfriendliness and swear words. Mick also shows another stereotype concerning the Irish. He listens to two women walking which is very impolite but it is known as "Irish curiosity".
Another stereotype that is dealt with in the film is about the Irish and alcohol. When they are all together in the pub, emphasis is put on an elderly man in a wheelchair who is unable to hold his drink but gets younger men to hold them for him and basically "feed" him. He is drinking Guinness which also shows a certain pride of his country. Right afterwards the viewer is introduced to the detective Jerry Lynch (Colm Meaney) who takes himself very seriously and does not behave like a real police officer. Lynch is a perfect example of police brutality and disrespect towards criminals, especially when he relieves himself on Lehiff's legs. His attitude towards criminals is strengthened in the boxing scene, when he says: "People I deal with are piss...waste."
The film deals a lot with unemployment, poverty and crime in contemporary Dublin society. Above everything there is the trio (Lehiff, John and Mick) that decide to rob a bank, which incidentally is run by Deidra's boyfriend Sam. Through Ben's and Lynch's TV show, one gets to see two other criminals. A character, who shows how Dublin's youngest generation behaves, is the boy who first throws a stone at Mick's bus and then makes his car fall into that river risking Mick getting seriously injured. He seems disrespectful and indicates that the youth is rather badly educated and troublemaking. Through all those characters, Ireland is not represented in a very good way.
But what the characters all have in common is some sign of traditional "Irishness". All of them enjoy going to the pub and having a quiet pint with their friends. A further common feature is that everybody started off by being rather lonely and unhappy. John broke up with Deidra and quits his job. His best friend Oscar started an unhappy relationship with an older woman and also paid for the bad deeds he had committed in his life. But the finish promises satisfaction for everybody, who loves happy endings. The only character who pays for the way he lived is the real villain.
Despite the movie, the DVD offers a lot more. There are for example other movie trailers and bonus material on it. This material consists of the original trailer and some interviews with the actors. At first the producers deliver their comments to the movie and how they created it, the second part consist of the actors explain their role and the hidden meanings of some sequences.
Intermission shows the issues and negatives about Dublin's society but it is presented in a very humorous way. It is entertaining, thoughtful and exciting at the same time. The characters are played by very good actors and I can only recommend this film to everybody. All in all the perfect movie for those, who long for a change from the Hollywood productions.