I was very impressed by Audrey Hepburn's Oscar winning performance in Roman Holiday so I was really looking forward to this movie Breakfast at Tiffany's.

What do I have to report after seeing it? I have to say that it is a mixed bag. Let me explain.

First the positives: Firstly, I have not yet seen a movie in which Audrey was so stylish. If you are into fashion and style that alone is good enough for seeing this movie. Audrey loses some of the innocence and freshness from her Roman Holiday days but gains in sex appeal and glamour. Her wardrobe in this movie is quite stunning. Even the d&eacute;cor of her apartment looks good.

Secondly, she has a fairly good chemistry with Peppard and the fact that the two are in the same age bracket helps in that regard.

Thirdly, Audrey Hepburn's acting in this movie is superb, she got an Oscar nomination for it.

Fourthly, Moon River the song that Holly (Audrey) sings is great and the tune itself is haunting.

The negatives: The story gets off to a fine start, Audrey plays the part of an escort (a call girl but it the early 60's so that is not what she is called in the movie), Peppard plays the role of a struggling writer who is kept by a rich older woman as her companion.

Now in this movie Holly (Audrey) is the kind of woman who is terrified of relationships, so much so that she does not even name her cat. Her only aim in life is to snare some rich man so when she starts falling in love with Peppard's character she does not know how to react.

What a great start, one would expect the story to race ahead but it exactly here that things come to a grinding stop. It is obvious in the first twenty minutes of the movie that they would fall in love but the next hour or so of the movie does nothing to build on that. It is only in the last ten minutes of the movie that things come to a head.

I think one of the reasons why her first movie Roman Holiday held the viewer's interest throughout it's length despite it's rather flimsy storyline was the character development that her and Gregory Peck's character go through.

In that movie Audrey character (Princess Ann) goes from an immature princess, to a drunk, to a wide-eyed ing&eacute;nue to woman in love to regal stateswoman. In Breakfast at Tiffany's however Audrey's character is basically the same the entire length of the movie and there is nothing else happening with Peppard's character also to get the movie into fast track. The story chugs along slowly till the end comes. The ending I must say is pretty romantic, but the overall impression that the movie leaves is that Breakfast at Tiffany is average fare nowhere in the same class as Roman Holiday or My Fair Lady.

I would also like to say that Mickey Rooney's depiction of a Japanese man is extremely insensitive. It was the early 60's so maybe society was not so understanding then, but what leaves me sad is that even now there are some people who think that the depiction is funny. I am reminded of the Bruce Lee movie, Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story in which the martial arts legend spends a romantic night out with his American wife and they end up seeing Breakfast at Tiffany's. At the end of the movie Bruce Lee is hurt and angry that Hollywood still did not treat Asian people with respect. Poor Bruce Lee, he should have known that some things never change. In this world bigotry is never out of fashion.

It would be fair to point out that Mickey Rooney's role is pretty minor so if you can shut your eyes to it this movie still has a lot to offer.