I am a huge fan of the legendary Hughes films of the Eighties.  This is the sleeper of the bunch.  A true hidden jem not just of the Hughes films, but all of those teenage films that dominated 80's theater.  This is the last true masterpiece that he created.  He followed his string of teenage targeted sucesses with Uncle Buck & Home Alone.  He never returned back to his roots.  This is the ultimate love story of all his films & a glorious grand finale.

I wrote my first review of Some Kind of Wonderful on Feb. 15th, 2007.  I recently had to do a report for school about teen films so I chose one of my favorites... this one.  I am posting an abridged version of my report; a better review I hope.

The 80's were the greatest for teen movies in general.  John Hughes' was by far the man known to define 1980's outstanding cinema with a list of the most known teen films of that decade.  Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, Weird Science, Pretty in Pink, and Ferris Bueller's Day Off all have to be mentioned if anyone is discussing teen movies in general.  These were all hits and are still popular amongst diehard fans of that era in film.  John Hughes would go on to write, produce, and / or direct Uncle Buck, the hit Home Alone & the odd, but funny Planes, Trains, & Automobiles.  He had a way of understanding teen issues of the day and was able to express them in his writing and in his directing.

1987's Some Kind of Wonderful is an interesting teen love triangle in the vein of another Hughes film, Pretty in Pink.  This film has a fantastic cast and practically a perfectly written script.  Numerous characters are well thought out and developed within the film; not just thrown together to be shown once only to be forgotten ten minutes later... well maybe with the exception of the Mom character.  It is very easy to be drawn into this world of 80's teenage angst.  The sensationally edgy soundtrack helps to achieve this by bringing more emotion from the fabulous performances of the excellent ensemble.

Some Kind of Wonderful opens up with the character Watts rapidly playing on some drums.  The rhythm drives the initial and traditional 80's montage that introduces all of the main players.  The beautiful Watts is played by the fresh faced Mary Stewart Masterson.  Her bobbed blonde hair is very reminiscent of Human League's Susan Ann Sulley.  Mary truly steals the film with an absolutely amazing performance as the heart torn best friend.  Watts is a tomboy from the wrong side of town and best friend to the main character in the film Keith.  The curious and hard working Keith Nelson is played by Eric Stoltz.  Keith is a loner artist from a blue collar family from the same neighborhood as Watts.  The gorgeous Amanda Jones is next introduced in the arms of her rich and popular boyfriend.  Amanda is played by the wonderful actress Lea Thompson.  Hardy Jenns, Amanda's snobbish and obnoxious boyfriend is played by Craig Sheffer.  Some may recognize him as the quarterback alongside James Caan in the awesome 1990's college football film, The Program. These four consist of the main force that drives this film.

Keith works after school as an auto mechanic and gas station attendant saving money for his unknown future. When he is not working he spends his time either painting and illustrating or hanging out with his pal Watts.  Keith is an admirer of the popular and totally taken Amanda Jones.  His interest increases and he totally falls for her.  A glimmer of hope begins to shine for Keith when Amanda and her A hole of a boyfriend's relationship starts to crumble.  Keith consults his good friend Watts for advice in his quest for love.  She does not respond in kind and repeatedly explains to him that there is no chance for him to ever go out with Amanda who hangs out with the rich kids.  Hardy, Amanda's boyfriend realizes Keith's interest in his girlfriend and tensions start to build between them.  Tension increases between the frustrated good friend Watts and the clueless Keith as he continues to plan to win the heart of Amanda...

If you want to know how this all ends you will have to see the movie.  No sense in ruining it for you.

There has to be a definite mention of the high school bully Skinhead named Duncan.  He is awesomely played by Elias Koteas; a little reminiscent of a young De Niro at times.  There are a couple of scenes with a young Candace Cameron playing Keith's youngest sister; one where she is shuffling through some awesome Garbage Pail Kids cards.  Candace played the oldest sister on the show Full House.

Interestingly there is a sneaky Rolling Stones theme throughout this film. The main character, Keith, is named after Keith Richards the legendary guitarist. Keith's best friend Watts who is an obsessed percussionist is named after the drummer from the Rolling Stones, Charlie Watts.  Last, but not least Amanda Jones is a Rolling Stones song and is used twice in the movie.  On another music note Chyna Phillips plays the other love interest of Amanda's boyfriend Hardy.  Chyna was part of the 90's band Wilson / Phillips and the daughter of Mamma & the Pappa's John and Michelle Phillips.

Some Kind of Wonderful is a one of a kind; truly a great movie.  It did not reach the same status as Hughes' other classics.  Sadly this film was advertised poorly and many thought it was just a rehash of Pretty in Pink.  Regardless this was the last true teen masterpiece that Hughes made in the 80's.  Now there are a dime a dozen American Pie type clones thrown together that cannot tell a story as fraction as well as John Hughes could.  Sadly he is no longer around and passed away a few years back.  Luckily he left us with a great bunch of films that give us all a glimpse into the life of a teen and a view of the 80's.