Main Hoon Na, directed by Farah Khan, is about Major Ram Sharma (Shahrukh Khan) who wants to ensure that the government's plan to end the feud between Pakistan and India, Mission Milaap (Project Unity) is completed. However Raghavan (Sunil Shetty), a well-known terrorist, will do anything to prevent the completion of Mission Milaap. His plan to keep it from happening is to threaten the army general's daughter, Sanjana (Amrita Ra). Major Ram enrolls at the college that Sanjana is attending so he will be able to protect her, but doing so he finds out that his unknown half brother, Lakshman or Lucky (Zayed Khan) attends the same college. Now Ram has the task of watching over Sanjana and getting to know his family that his father has kept from him. He also tried to make his gorgeous chemistry teacher, Chandni (Sushmita Sen) fall in love with him.
 The theme of Main Hoon Na is nationalism. When Ram is placed in the college he has all the tasks of protecting the general's daughter to getting closer with his family to falling in love with his chemistry teacher. But he always completes his mission no matter what the consequences. At the end of the film, Ram protects the entire college from Raghavan, even though his family doesn't accept him and was discovered as a undercover student and was told to leave. This shows that he would do anything for his country and family, even if it involves a duel between him and Raghavan.
 There is a lot of new cinematography that is used in Main Hoon Na. The main shot I noticed was the low angle shot whenever Ram was saving someone's life. The first scene I noticed this in; Ram and his friends are going to the movies and Ram notices that the terrorists are targeting one of his friends. A low angled shot is used while Ram is running to save his friend. Also, to show the impact of the heroism of Ram it was captured in slow motion during the saving. This mechanism is used a lot when Ram was saving someone's life. Another thing I noticed a lot in the movie was when Ram's love interest was in the scene, her hair was always blowing, showing her beauty. Whenever Chandni was in the scene the close up of Ram's face was showing that he was in a trance because of her beauty. Her hair moving continuously through out the movie was because the main character was in love with her and also, to show her beauty.
 I did not enjoy Main Hoon Na at all. I thought the music was way to long and did not fit into the action genre of the movie. Also whenever there was a battle scene the action was very unrealistic. I found that whenever someone was shooting they were flying through the air and would jump through glass doors. I also thought that the fighting scenes were way to choreographed and didn't flow correctly. I give this movie two thumbs or guns down.