I agree this is a brilliant re-imagining of the original Wizard of OZ. There are such masterful turns and metaphors that take time to figure out long after viewing. For instance, it took me time to realize that the Grey Gale referred to the original version which was in sepia and when DG encounters Dorothy  Gale she is in black and white with the exception of her slippers and the red 39 on the heart outside the farmhouse (referring back to the original year the Wizard of Oz was made)--but the Dorothy Gale that DG found was gray (the gray gale). Also the way that Emerald City gets reused as the quest for the Emerald and power. Alot of people have questioned the title of the mini-series because the tin man wasn't the central character but I think that the tin man becomes a metaphor for the way that each character is locked in their own prison helplessly watching as destruction seems to fill their lives and they fight to get out of those prisons. The end was a bit schmaltzy for my taste -- all the twists and turns in the plot kept me hopping so I was expecting a bit more of bang. I thought the performances were first-rate and the difficulty of taking an overly dramatic musical and turning it into a drama that was believable and not overblown was key--I think Zooey Deschanel's DG was spot on in having the right amount of sarcasm and bewilderment and she really pulled you into the story. I am awaiting the DVD--it will be refreshing to watch it in one sitting instead of across three nights. Other critics have been less than generous to this effort but it isn't the sort of thing that one grabs at one sitting--it really does require that you think back to the details of the original as well as become involved in a new world. I can't say enough good things about Tin man. It is so smart on so many levels that I think it flew over so many critics heads and they just didn't want to spend the time to figure out how the plot grabbed so many details from the Wizard of Oz and used them to tell a whole new story. I highly recommend this for everyone.