Look, for my money... this is both Williamson's coolest script and Rodriguez's coolest flick.  (Scratch -- now it's "Sin City", mod. 4/2/05.)  I say that because sitting through this precocious rehash of "Puppet Masters" and "The Breakfast Club" (along with a little bit of "The Thing") is an absolute breeze. Though not without its share of suspense-dread and red-herring scares, the movie ably demonstrates the social symptoms of overall teenage distrust through a handful of characters that should be one-note yet inject a uniquely disparate perspective of the goings-on. Those goings-on are too familiar to us by now: a parasitic alien infects leagues of human hosts with the simplicity of an airborn virus and essentially renders individuals into becoming somewhat 'optimal' zombies. Alright, if aliens chose to overpower the Earth through brain manipulation, why choose Ohio to start? Because... who the hell ever thinks about Ohio, the same ill-fated state as "Heathers"? Where this movie excels is Williamson taking the pop culture UFO phenomenon (through movies and literature) and ingesting it with the posit that, instead of attempting to be secret leaks about such subject matter, they are actually devised to divert our attention away from the seriousness of it when it actually does happen. (Much the same way Williamson approaches his post-mod horror projects.) Drawn from legitimate personal experience, though dismissed as pulp fare or daydream fantasy by anyone else. Yeah, sure, it's ludicrous, yet the possibility is undeniably intriguing. So Rodriguez comes in and smoothly milks this angle, and aptly, I might add. I always think his better films are those he does not write himself (but that still won't stop him from being the cameraman, re-recording mixer, co-producer, editor and director on this movie) and "The Faculty" is a case in point. His hyperbolic style fits right in with this type of writing, and Williamson delivers his slickest dialogue yet (see review title). One more thing (and let me know if I'm crazy, here): this has got to be one of the most violent high schools depicted on film, and of course it's only violent while the students are still human. (Although, Stokely does endure some harsh blows during the aliens' siege.) I understand it ain't gonna make the AFI 100, nor be regarded as seminal viewing by 'Cahiers du Cinema.' But it's dependable. Whether you want some laughs, some scares, some mental repairs, this is one that you won't have to feel guilty about reaching for.
  P.S. Keep an eye on the ongoing undercurrent about methamphetamine.