I've always heard that if you look beneath the grimy setup you'll see the beautiful interior. Well that saying is not dissimilar to the horrors of the summer movie season 2001! Some of the most anticipated flicks of the summer are huge dissappointments (ie. Scary Movie 2) and some of the best moves, the general audience are too ignorant to set foot in (ie Hedwig and the Angry Inch). Well thank god we can still depend on the rapier wit of Kevin Smith. the King of Curse Words and verbal fluency. Has given us the most entertaining installment in the View Askewniverse. Well I know it ain't saying much but "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" is the funniest film of the summer!!
This film has all the things that make a screwball comedy perfect. Wacky Characters, Funny jokes both verbal and physical, Good storyline, great comic timing, and of course, a monkey. 
Many people were afraid that Jay and Silent Bob would be unable to handle a movie on their own. Well not only did they succeed they went through the roof!!! Kevin Smith kept the jokes piled, one on top of the other and each one different and original. Though I loathe bodily function jokes, Smith managed to make them appropriate and not over use them, unlike the comically declined Wayans Brothers, who seem to think making the characters fart is like printing money. Smith on ther other hand keeps you on your toes awaiting what's gonna happen next. 
"Is Jay Gonna Do What I think He's Gonna Do?" "If Silent Bob Speaks What will he say?"
Questions like that were popping in my brain because of the aggressive spontaneity of the comedy. But another thing I loved was all our old friends from the View Askewniverse (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and one omnipotent female from Dogma.) Dante, Randal, Brodie, Holden, Banky, and even Willam the idiot Man-child. All performed once again be the same View Askew alumni and all played to perfection. And to go with them there's also stellar performances by many new faces, like Shannen Elizabeth as Jay's love-intrest Justice and also Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, and Jen Schwalbach (Mrs. Kevin Smith)  as the evil villainesses. And including great cameos by George Carlin, Marc Blucas, Seann William Scott, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek  And God knows how many more. (She does know) 
I think Every self respecting View askew fan Is required by cinematic Law to get up off their butts and see this flick. And all those poor schmucks who think The Wayans Brothers actually care about originality, NEED to watch this movie or I'll Beat the ever lovin' tar outta them.
Now I can say there were 5 good movies this summer instead of 4.
And Oh Yeah, To Jay and Silent Bob: Snooch to the Nooch and Good Bye My friends