Being a true crime buff, I eagerly anticipated two recent releases:  Brian DePalma's "The Black Dahlia" and David Fincher's "Zodiac."  The Black Dahlia film was incredibly inept in every respect, simply an awful movie.  As such, I went to see "Zodiac" in an extremely skeptical state of mind.  I was not disappointed this time.  "Zodiac" is one of the most gripping crime dramas ever made, comparable to such classics as "In Cold Blood," "The Boston Strangler," "L.A. Confidential" and "Capote."
Being a Bay Area native (as is director Fincher), I remember very clearly the palpable sense of fear and anxiety which enveloped the San Francisco area during the Zodiac's reign of terror in the late '60's - early '70's.  The media went wild, curfews were imposed, doors were locked and bolted, guns were purchased, and children were herded inside well before dark.  Scary times.
And all that has been vividly brought back in this starkly realistic, understated yet extraordinarily powerful film.  David Fincher has captured the very essence of time and place, taking us back to a much more innocent era darkened by such California horrors as the Zodiac crimes in San Francisco and the Manson / Tate murders in Los Angeles (both occuring during the same summer of 1969).  Scary times indeed.

This story is much more a crime procedural than a "serial killer" film, as the murders themselves are de-emphasized over the incredible efforts (and some real blunders) made by the S.F.P.D. and other local law enforecment agencies to identify and capture this monster.  The killings are presented, however, in an incredibly realistic (and EXTREMELY accurate) manner, and as such are truly horrifying and difficult to watch.

To those who feel the film is too long, or boring, or not violent enough, all I can offer is the fact that this was all real, not made up by some hack screenwriter.  Perhaps because I lived through those times and have extremely vivid memories of them, this film carries more import for me personally.  I can say that I held my breath for most of the film's running time and did not experience a nano-second of boredom (in fact I actually felt the film could have covered MORE ground--i.e., the early killings not depicted in the film).

As in real life, the end result is far from satisfying:  the killer was never caught, and the film leaves you hanging, just as we all were left hanging over 30 years ago.  Frustrating, yes...but that's the way it was.
Simply put, this film is superb in every way:  direction, screenplay, photography, production design, music, acting (though I must briefly note that I've had about enough of Robert Downey's  twitchy, mumbling performances, and if there were any one thing I'd change about this film it would be his casting).

An intense, cerebral, unsettling and ultimately shocking film.  Highly, highly recommended.  Five stars.