Calendar Girls relates the true story of fifty-something British countryside women who are spurred into action when Annie's husband, John, suddenly dies of cancer. Annie spends many days and nights in the local hospital as her husband is getting treatment, suffering on a lumpy sofa in an unglamorous waiting room. When her husband dies, she is determined to do some charity work to provide a better family room for other families that have to undergo the same experience.
It is her friend Chris, slightly eccentric and known for her "crazy ideas" who takes up her cause and storms full speed ahead with it. Both are members of the local Women's Institute, a national organization for women that usually deals with cupcakes and gardening tips. In one of the meetings, the president of the WI decides that this year's calendar should feature local churches.
It is not until later that Chris realizes that a better way to raise money for charity is by making the calendar more interesting. Inspired by the calendar of semi-nude (not naked!) girls hanging in the local bicycle repairman's shop, Chris realizes that she and the other women need to take things one step further. With her usual enthusiasm and deterministic nature, Chris convinces half a dozen women to show their bodies for a local photographer to make the calendar.
The movie is touching and both bitter sweet and hilarious. One of John's last speeches to his wife refers to the sunflower and how Yorkshire women are like them, because each stage is better than the last. The sunflower features on the calendars.
Chris is keen to make the calendar a success, so that enough money can be raised, but the overwhelming response to her press releases come as a massive surprise to her and the other women, when the national news stations get wind of the story that takes the women all the way to Hollywood.
Not everything is a success, however. We witness deterioration of a marriage, the sleazy behavior of news reporters, and a son's demise into drug use - all peripherals to the main story. The mix of fifty-something nudes and traditional British country side events is funny, offbeat, and incredibly well acted by some of the best British celebs. 
Generally a feel-good film, with plenty of laughter and real-life drama. A true Yorkshire Rose ... or should I say, sunflower?