Many fans of this movie prefer the remake from 1988, viewing it as scarier.  I do not.  As a writer, I have to admire Irwin Yeaworth, Jr.'s(writer/director) vision, attention to detail and sound story structure. He accomplishes one of the most crucial elements of structure, placing characters in conflict, in only 82 minutes, as opposed to the 1988 version's 95, in which the bad acting and familiar faces (Shawnee Smith and Kevin Dillon) overshadow an otherwise great adaptation of the original story.  Yeaworth keeps the tension on the story's teen hero and heroine Steve and Jane (Steve McQueen and Aneta Corsaut) as they try to convince the skeptical townfolk that a murdering, geletanous blob is on the loose.  The creature here is horrifying, without all the silly special effects. It is both malevolent and intelligent all at once.  One ponders "What could possibly be a more terrible death?" as the Blob oozes across the floor with poor Nurse Kate's remains digesting in its innards.  Although the original Blob has its own moments of bad acting, the movie as a whole is sound, keeping the fear factor high as wholesale panic breaks out when the Blob emerges from a movie theater having dined on at least 50 or 60 theater-goers by Police Officer Dave's count, and then engulfs a diner, trapping our heroes inside, leaving them awaiting their own slow and gruesome demise.  Again, keeping with structure, our hero, Steve (McQueen), discovers that the Blob detests cold environments.  The Blob is subdued, but not destroyed, with CO2 fire extinguishers and then air-dropped in the Artic.  FYI -- the sequel Beware the Blob, directed by Larry Hagman of I Dream of Jeannie fame, has got to be one of the worst pieces of cinematic poo ever made.  Don't know where he was going here, but he certainly never made it there.  Don't waste your time!

Overall the inventive story, great bad acting and near flawless elements make the Blob (1958) a timeless and unsurpassable gem in the anals of movie history.

Kim M. Brantley