Earl Brooks lives one life where he is Portland's Man of the Year, a loving father and husband, a philanthropist, and successful businessman. Unfortunately for him, he lives another in which he is "The Thumbprint Killer," a serial-murderer who kills because he has become addicted to it. It's been two years since his last kill, but despite his best efforts Mr. Brooks feels the need to kill again. However, this time Mr. Brooks makes a mistake. He kills a young couple that are having sex in their bedroom with the curtains open. A voyeur (Dane Cook) in a building across the street, who fancies himself an amateur photographer, catches Mr. Brooks in the act. He also catches him on film. Meanwhile, Detective Tracey Atwood (Demi Moore) has been tracking the "Thumbprint Killer" for years, and believes that he has finally slipped up.

Kevin Costner's turn as Mr. Brooks is surprisingly irresistible. You will likely feel discomforted for most of the movie because you will find yourself liking the man despite the horrible things he does. However, writer/director Bruce A. Evans cleverly splits Mr. Brooks into two different people. Brooks' alter ego, his murderous side, actually exists on-screen in the form of Marshall, played by William Hurt. In this way, we get to see the two sides of Brooks' personality--the good and the bad--as they each fight for total control. This somewhat split-personality visual is what makes this movie succeed, because the viewer is able to separate the two sides of Mr. Brooks' personality. We can cheer for his good side, and hope that his bad side doesn't overcome him.

In what came as a surprise to me, the story actually throws a few twists and turns our way. Mr. Brooks is so intelligent, so meticulous with his kills, that it is hard to believe that he could make such a grievous mistake. But the film actually explores the possibility that Mr. Brooks wants to be caught. Is Marshall taking over again? Or is Earl getting back at Marshall in the only way he can?

Dane Cook's Mr. Smith is also somewhat different than what we'd expect. He uses his incriminating evidence against Mr. Brooks to blackmail him into something...unusual. Cook is actually the biggest surprise of all in the film. His performance is likely to satisfy both his rabid fans and his detractors. He imbues enough of his personality into the role, all the while remaining very low-key. He's received a fair bit of critical acclaim for the role, and it certainly gives me hope that he will lean more towards roles like this one in the future, rather than those of GOOD LUCK CHUCK.

Most shocking of all is Mr. Brooks' daughter, Jane. I won't say much, as you need to experience it for yourself, but let's just say that the film also explores the nature/nurture role in shaping a personality.

All in all, Mr. Brooks is worth your time. Is it the best thriller you'll see this year? Probably not (no thanks to Demi Moore's character, who is nothing more than your average tough female cop with something to prove). But Costner, Cook, and Hurt (who is great) are definitely worth the money. It made me jump, it made me think, and it made me enjoy a movie starring Kevin Costner for the first time in fifteen years.

And how many movies can say that?