Having never been a fan of Friends, the only thing I'd seen Lisa Kudrow in was the comedy Romy & Michelle's High School Reunion (which is hilarious). I remember seeing her promote The Comeback on a few talk shows like The View and seeing bits and pieces of the show itself, but I didn't pay too much attention to it. Fast forward to summer 2009. I was cruising through the video store when I came across the dvds for a steal. A friend had just told me how much she enjoyed them and encouraged me to check it out for myself. I took her word for it and I'm so glad I did.

Lisa stars as Valerie Cherish (sounds like a porn star's name, huh?), former star of a fictional 90s sitcom called I'm It!, but now a washed up has-been. Looking for a role that will put her back on the A-list, Val is cast on a new sitcom called Room and Bored (it's like a sexualized version of Saved By the Bell with double the cheese). Originally led to believe her role will be that of a wise, sexy architect with plenty of screentime, she ends up playing Aunt Sassy, a frumpy landlord reduced to one short appearance every episode. Poor Val makes due with what she's got while cameras following her for her reality show (you get a cookie if you figured out it's also called The Comeback) capture scenes from her personal and professional life.

All of the characters are interesting, funny, and engaging. Val's loving husband Mark, whom she affectionately calls "Marky Mark" (Damian Young), is clearly uncomfortable with cameras invading their personal life, but puts up with it for his wife's sake. Her stepdaughter Francesca (Vanessa Marano), a "too cool for school" 12 year old obsessed with things like "ciggys" and the Atkins diet, pops up from time to time pretending to show interest in Valerie strictly for camera time. Thankfully she has her hairdresser and best friend Mickey (Robert Michael Morris) to lean on during tough times and stare at her awkwardly as she continually embarasses herself. She also (kinda) bonds with her 20 something co-stars. Starlet Juna Millken (Malin Åkerman) in particular. Executive producer Tom (Robert Bagnell) is kind to Valerie and tries to help her out when she needs it, but fellow producer Paulie G. (Lance Barber) makes it his mission to ignore and humiliate her whenever the opportunity presents itself. It takes her a long time to get the message, but she really gives him his comeuppance in one of the best laugh out loud scenes ever. Rounding out the cast is The Comeback's director Jane (Laura Silverman). She tries to keep her interactions with Val at a minimum with very few on-air appearances, but it's clear that she genuinely cares about her.

Lisa Kudrow's performance is brilliant. Valerie is clearly self-absorbed and seriously lacks self-awareness in her quest for a comeback and makes a fool out of herself time and time again, but that also makes her humanity shine through. She's awkward and clumsy, but she's a sweet woman with a good heart underneath it all. Most of the episodes are comedic, but Lisa kills during the dramatic parts that will leave you feeling sorry for her and cheering her on even more. Plus, she has some of the best one liners. As odd as it might sound, it's a good thing HBO cut The Comeback after one season. It would've been interesting to see what direction season 2 would've taken, but the show comes full circle by the end. That's all the Val we need.