After 8 films, having acquired the status of an Italian icon (a much criticized one, of course, as with all Italian icons, which Italians - and Italo-Americans like me - take particular joy in tearing down) and overwhelming international fame, Fellini felt himself trapped, boxed in by demands and expectations and unable to create.  So he shattered the box, threw away his script and wrote this outrageous, self regarding, egoistic, surreal and utterly brilliant meditation on ....himself!  His predicament, his creative problems, his loves, his childhood, his aging, his fantasies.  As in the most famous scene, he takes the whip and makes the elements of his life dance around him... at least until he is overwhelmed.  And, for most folks, it works utterly.  You are swept away in the swirl of images and emotions, and willingly allow yourself to go along for the ride.  The world, as with most of the reviewers here, loved it.  After all, despite the relentlessly inward focus of the film, these concerns of life, love and aging are our own concerns, too.  His unforgettable images resonate with most of us.  Although not everyone is willing to go along for this particular ride, as attested to by the much smaller number of extremely negative reviews.  Hey, if you don't like the roller coaster, don't get on one!

But once you have taken such an extreme and self indulgent step - where do you go next?  Sadly, that is one problem which Fellini never solved.  After this, he mostly just made "Fellini films", repeating the same motifs and images that once seemed so daring, far past the point of self parody.  To be sure, there are some wonderful moments in "Amarcord" and "Roma".  In fact he rarely made a film without some things of real interest.  But never again was he anywhere near as consistently good, as much on the cutting edge of international film, as he was in the ten years from 1953 to 1963.  I Vitelloni (1953), La Strada (1954), Nights of Cabiria (1957), La Dolce Vita (1960), 8 1/2 (1963):  How many directors have a run like that, with so many unforgettable images?