"Now that's what I call Olympic spirit," says one of Naomi Watts' deranged captors near the end of "Funny Games" as she frantically tries to cut the ropes that bind her hands and somehow escape from a sailboat in the middle of a deserted lake.

The kidnapper is referring to her last-ditch effort to survive despite the unrelenting horrors she witnesses in the first 100 minutes of this bleak, emotionally jarring psychological thriller, but he could very well be addressing the audience directly for having the mettle to sit through the whole thing themselves.

Make no mistake: If you should find yourself watching this film, don't think for one second you can escape the hopelessness that absolutely oozes from its every single frame just because you're seeing it all from the comfort of the stadium seating at your local theater.

"Funny Games" is an English-language, frame-for-frame remake of a German film of the same name, written and directed in 1997 by Michael Haneke. In it, an upper-class family -- father George (Tim Roth), mother Ann (Watts) and son George Jr. (Devon Gearhart) -- arrives at their summer home on a lake in an unnamed New England community. The opening scenes in the house have an uneasy, Kubrick-ian air about them (the walls are white and sterile-looking, and the film is almost entirely void of any instrumental score or musical cues), but it is hard to imagine even Kubrick coming up with something as unsettling as what comes next.

Two young men decked in their best country-club garb -- Polo shirts, shorts, tennis shoes and golf gloves, all white -- arrive at the house and ask to borrow some eggs. By the time Ann and George realize the two don't exactly seem like the cooking type, one of them grabs a golf club and breaks George's leg with it. With minimal resistance, they take the family hostage and proceed to torture them with a series of mind games, depraved humiliation and, well, a little bit of actual torture.

Neither "Paul" (Michael Pitt) nor "Peter" (Brady Corbet) -- their real names are never given -- offer any credible explanation for their sadistic actions, which is the first clue that "Funny Games" is not your typical psycho-killer(s) flick. The real alarm bell, however, comes when Paul breaks the "fourth wall" and faces the camera to ask the audience, "What do you think? Think they stand a chance?"

Once you realize the film is self-aware, the viewing experience is taken to an entirely different level. Haneke makes you complicit in whatever happens to the family, just by virtue of having paid your $8 and choosing to stay and watch as the violence escalates further and further. He uses this movie-that-knows-it's-a-movie device to devastating effect, not once letting you -- or the (doomed?) family -- off the hook.

The "Scream" films were hailed as groundbreaking because they took all the hallmarks of horror films and "cleverly" presented them as knowing winks from the director. Kid's stuff. Where "Funny Games" truly triumphs over Wes Craven and his ilk is in its unfazed determination to deny viewers any breathing room, dangling moments of hope over their heads before snatching them away like two brothers playing keep-away from their younger sibling. Rest assured, cinematic convention has no place here.

It is worth mentioning that there is actually very little on-screen violence in "Funny Games." Sometimes the camera pans away right before the devastation, and other times it follows Peter or Paul into another room while the other continues the carnage. This, again, only serves to make the entire experience all the more disturbing.

The final shot, long after you've lost the last shred of your faith in humanity, is a freeze frame of Paul staring menacingly at the camera as a loud, angry punk song plays into the closing credits. The look on his face is a chilling final reminder that, like the film's tagline reads, "You brought this on yourself."