While it's impossible to think about the cutting of "The Magnificent Ambersons" without regret, it's also pretty easy to forget about it while watching the finished work, which is difficult for me to think of as anything less than perfect (save in theoretical comparison to the lost version).  Since I'm unencumbered by expertise, I have no technical grounds on which to argue that "The Magnificent Ambersons" is a better movie than "Citizen Kane, " all I know is that it's a much more important movie for me emotionally.  And I can't help wondering if Welles felt the same way about it to some extent.  Certainly, Welles' biographers suggest an overwhelming emotional involvement with the story-not least because of his claim that Tarkington had Welles' father in mind when he created the character of Eugene-and that this was the source both of the movie's power and its sad fate.
Although I dislike kneejerk psychoanalysis of artists, it does seem clear that Welles' colluded to some extent in the destruction of his film.  He refused to take the role of George, with which he'd had so much success in the radio version; I don't mind Tim Holt's performance, but he was very poorly received at the time.
More seriously, Welles insisted on a drastic cut of all the footage between Isabel receiving Eugene's letter, and the gathering of her family in the hallway outside her sickroom. He replaced the cut footage with a single, ludicrous scene of Isabel getting the letter, reading it, and dropping dead. This version is the one that was shown at the disastrous premiere in Pomona. The second screening, for which the excised footage was restored by Robert Wise, received a reasonably warm reception from the good people of Pasadena.  And it's telling that even though Welles had signed away his right to a final cut at the commencement of shooting, the  studio refrained from making the daft substitution I've just described.
The ins and outs of the editing process are described exhaustively in Richard Carringer's "The Magnificent Ambersons-A Reconstruction," which contains the full shooting script of the lost version--as well as storyboards and stills of missing footage--and is an indispensible aid to understanding both the released and the lost version.  It also presents copious evidence of Welles' conflicted emotions about the project.
To me, that Welles' was emotionally driven to sabotage his greatest film--or was too involved in it to use proper judgment--is far more interesting than the hackneyed, almost impersonal myth of the genius whose work is destroyed by greedy and uncomprehending philistines; the myth is attractive, and lets us take a vicarious stand against the bad guys, but things are seldom that simple in real life.  No doubt "The Magnificent Ambersons" could've been better, but to this ignoramus, one minute of it is worth five of "Citizen Kane," or the entirety of the vastly overrated "Touch of Evil."