I always read negative reviews first at Amazon.com. If the negative reviews have no substance, and their critiques sound overly-biased or misunderstanding, then I figure that the product is probably good enough to try. For Kung Pow, I don't think that most of the people who gave negative reviews really "get it".

People were slamming the acting, the production levels, etc. Hello!? It's suppose to be bad and cheesy! That's what makes movies like Red Neck Zombies, Evil Dead 2, etc. great movies. They are corny, and they don't try to fool anyone into thinking that they are anything else. Being bad is what makes this movie good. Oederick (sp?) is also a perfect (if convenient) lead for this movie as well. You don't WANT Will Smith or Jim Carey or someone like that in a movie like this. The character's "blandness" (straightness) is what keeps the movie together. The movie itself is charismatic and attention-getting, for the lead character to be overly-developed would have simply caused confusion and made the project fall flat on it's face.

If you don't like over-the-top movies, then of course you won't like this one. But if you are the type of person that doesn't like that kind of movie, giving a negative review and calling it dumb would be like someone who hates rap giving a negative review for a rap album. It's very misleading.

Personally, I laughed quite a bit while watching this movie. Some of the set-ups for jokes were brilliant, and many of the jokes hit their mark perfectly. A good example is when Wimp-lo and the girl he likes are first introduced, and Wimp-lo walks up to a guy and asks him a question, and then you see the guy's lips moving for like 10 seconds, with a short 1 second "I don't know" dubbed in at the end. Yeah, it's been done a hundred times; but then again so have most concepts/jokes. It's all about delivery, performance, etc. And in this case, Kung Pow hit the nail right on the head; the timing was absolutely perfect, and it made what could have been a stale "I've already seen that" joke into a very funny "I'm gonna rewind that and watch again" joke. This is a small example, but I think it is representative of the whole movie. You either "get it," and can laugh along; or you don't "get it" and insist that the movie is bad.

I don't think people realise how they sound when they say that this movie has bad acting, production, etc. This is like the people who say rather proudly to wresting fans: "You know that Pro wrestling is fake, right?" (fwiw, I don't watch pro wrestling, I just think it's a good example). Gee, really? Who knew? This is so condescending that it's hard to say anything at all in response. Actually it's scripted and not "fake" per se, but that's another discussion. Anyway, it's the same thing with these types of movies. Saying that they are "bad" is doing nothing more than stating the obvious. It never claimed to be anything else. Why give a negative review for something that is living up to what it claims to be?