William Shakespeare is remembered in the popular consciousness as the greatest writer who ever lived (not undeservedly), but the images that still come to most minds when thinking of him are almost all from the tragedies:  Hamlet contemplating a skull (usually while giving a monologue from a completely different scene), Romeo and Juliet together in death, and the like.  The Tragedies (and, to a lesser extent, the Histories) dominate the public mind.  Director Kenneth Branagh had made his career with a spectacular film version of "Henry V", and would later film a full-length "Hamlet"; in between comes this film, which attempts to put one of Shakespeare's Comedies on the screen.  Shakespeare loved comedy, both witty and bawdy, but those plays (and comedic scenes in his more serious ones) have suffered in later centuries as linguistic change strips away recognition of the jokes, particularly the dirty ones (the title "Much Ado About Nothing" has three meanings in Elizabethan understanding, only one of which would be apparent to contemporary audiences, and it's the least-naughty one).  Branagh and his talented cast succeed admirably.

Our story opens in Italy (not that it especially matters), as Don Pedro (Denzel Washington; Branagh's a devotee of colour-blind casting; I have some issues with that approach, but it works better in comedy than in drama) and his men return from a victorious war, and vacation at the estate of Leonato (Branagh regular Richard Briers).  Don Pedro's entourage includes his bastard half-brother Don John (Keanu Reeves), and allies Claudio (Robert Sean Leonard) and Benedick (Branagh himself); Claudio is in love with Leonato's daughter Hero (a young Kate Beckinsale), while Benedick and Leonato's niece Beatrice (Emma Thompson, Branagh's then-wife and frequent onscreen partner) hate each other.  The later two are one of the prototypical couple who mistake their love for each other for deep dislike (or is it the other way around?), and Don Pedro, apparently for fun, decides to try and convince each that the other is secretly in love with them (which I guess also makes this one of the earlier "rich people decide to mess around with the plebes on a wager" stories).  Don John, meanwhile, is out to do evil.

The casting is, as one can see, eclectic, and also includes other Branagh regulars Brian Blessed and Jimmy Yuill, and Michael Keaton as a particularly bizarre Constable Dogberry.  Branagh and Thompson, in their last onscreen collaboration before the dissolution of their marriage, are typically excellent; they know how to deliver this type of material.  Denzel Washington, who you rarely seen in comedy or would associate with the Bard (he also played the title role in a Broadway production of "Julius Caesar"), is also good.  Keanu Reeves' casting has tended to be criticized, and while Reeves is an undeniably limited actor, I don't think he's out of his depth here:  Don John is a bargain basement Richard III, who proudly proclaims his desire to do be evil solely for the sake of doing evil; roles don't get much more one-dimensional (and proud of it).  Beckinsale and Leonard are just sort of there as the other couple; both are good actors, but the parts don't have a huge amount to them, and they can't compete with Branagh and Thompson.  The cast and crew do a great job of bringing out of the comedy in the play, in many cases using inflection and body language to resuscitate obsolete puns, and adding in physical comedy.  Of course, Branagh's whole career on film has been about freeing Shakespeare productions from the stereotype of stuffiness.

Recommended.