Russell Crowe is magnificent as "Lucky Jack" Aubrey, captain of the HMS Surprise.  Aubrey and his crew are hoping to intercept and destroy Acheron, a powerful and speedy French warship. The year is 1805, and the French are at war with the British. Capturing Acheron would give the British a much-needed naval victory against Napoleon. However, Aubrey and his crew soon discover that Acheron's captain is an extremely clever tactician and a formidable opponent.  After a crippling battle, Aubrey must decide whether to lick his wounds and head for home or continue his pursuit of Acheron. 
Peter Weir gets high praise for his meticulous direction of "Master of Commander."  The movie looks authentic down to the smallest detail.  Weir shows us how crewmen behaved while living for months on board a warship.  Scenes of tempestuous storms, raging battles, wounded men screaming in agony, and young boys trying to act as courageous as their adult heroes are unforgettable.  The cinematography by Russell Boyd and Sandy Sissell is breathtaking.
Russell Crowe completely inhabits the body and soul of Jack Aubrey, who at times acts like a man possessed.  His pride and strong sense of duty sometimes blind him to reality.  Yet, Aubrey is also a man of principle, compassion, and deep feeling, who cares very much about the men under his command. Paul Bettany is Crowe's counterpart as the intellectual, sensitive, and outspoken Dr. Stephen Maturin, the ship's talented surgeon and a gifted naturalist. On quiet evenings, Stephen plays classical music with his old friend, Captain Aubrey, but the two men eventually clash over Aubrey's obsession with completing his mission successfully.
Although "Master and Commander" takes place in the nineteenth century, its themes are relevant to the times in which we live. Weir raises very interesting questions about the nature of patriotism and leadership.  Crowe, in a gritty and sharply delineated performance, demonstrates the agony of making decisions that will inevitably lead to a loss of life.
"Master and Commander" is a swashbuckling movie that one rarely sees these days, and it is also a thoughtful look at courage, determination, love of country, and humanity.  It is a wonderful movie that is one of the best of 2003.