But do not worry... Since A&M Records always do the same, will be not surprise that in two years or less... they release a new Synchronicity DVD from another show actually showing the band instead of the morons of the audience and the 80's effects.

Think just in the several "Every breath you take - the singles" CD's compilation they released from 86 to the date. How many? I lost count.

I want to see Stewart, Andy and Sting (in that order) instead of a doped girl dancing on Message in a bottle (while I hear some amazing arrangements of Stewart, my God! I want to see that!) or such kind of pathetic jerks who, I think, were there because of Sting's look instead of the band. Too bad I was so young and therefore I missed the chance to see live one of my favourites bands.

One of the things I always thinked during the time I had this release on VHS, was, this is a trio, there?s a real chance for a Full Multi-Angle concert on DVD. 4 songs, and on top of that, the third camera is not focused exlusively on Stewart! The most talented musician of the gang. Is amazing though the speed of his brain. In Synchronicity II, with one portion of his brain he?s staring at a broken stick while with the other hand, continue with the song. Simply wonderful! Specially in a fast-speed song like this one.

Also, I agree with one of the reviewers regarding the backing vocals girls. Or their voices are badly recorded (I also have the "Tea in the Sahara" CD which is the same audio track from this release), or simply are intolerable (I prefered the drunk-style voices of Stewart and Andy from previous tours). Other thing I have to add to this release, is that, the Andy?s guitar sounds too low and in some songs, is barely audible.

Why don't get the original tapes and edit the damn concert again without the people... or less people at least?

P.S.: Try to find out The Police live in Germany january 1980... That's an excelent concert... even with some discordinations mostly between Andy and Sting. But excelent direction, excelent track list and Stewart kills in Bed's too big without you and Deathwish. Well, in all the songs.