I'm a big fan of the Punisher, and vigilantes in general. The Punisher was always my favorite comic book. I always liked its gritty realism. The Punisher didn't take prisoners; he didn't let the bad guys go. He was dark and tormented, unflinching when he doled out punishment, but ultimately he was one of the good guys.
Unfortunately this isn't a good movie. While it's better then the B movie 80's version, almost anything on film is. I personally found the 04 version to be a much better movie.
In the 04 version, there was a more coherent story with better acting, better music, and much more believable action. In the 04 version, I thought Thomas Jane nailed the part, he looked and sounded like the Punisher. There was a sort of Punisher music theme, which fit the character, and the movie managed, to be a good blend of action, humor and dark drama. Thomas Jane appears to have been right to pull out of a sequel for script problems. Its too bad though, I would have liked to have seen T. Jane in a sequel. Yes, the movie got a little silly with him moving fire hydrants around and such, but overall I liked the movie.
This version, screams B movie and plays like a B movie. I don't mind the violence and gore, they are fitting for the character. It's the story and acting that are weak. The characters are one dimensional, and the fighting/shooting scenes get to be ridiculous and far fetched. I mean, seriously, who hangs upside down from a chandelier and spins around in the middle of a gunfight? And why?
And yet another origin story? There are hundreds of Punisher comics, cant they use one as the basis for a sequel if they are incapable of coming up with a plot on their own?
I thought Ray Stevenson did a fair job, looking the part, though his accent didn't really help. I liked the inclusion of micro chip, and Wayne Knight is probably the best actor in the movie, but he was underutilized. If you didn't read the comic books, you really didn't know who "micro" was.
The idea of a Punisher task force hunting him, was a good and realistic touch, but again, it was regulated to the background story and given no focus. The portrayal and behavior of cops was often very unrealistic, and stereotypical.
As a fan of the Punisher, the movie is worth seeing. In one sense it is closer to the comics then the previous versions bearing in mind that comics often have far fetched plots and unrealistic fighting scenes. But I personally expect and want more realism and depth from a movie.