I'll join the other reviewers who say that this is probably the best coming-of-age movie ever made. Or in the top five at least. This low-budget movie has so many great scenes that the $100 million movies made today (the kind Kevin Costner makes now) wouldn't even think of. The three leads give the best performances of their careers - in no other movie does Kevin Costner appear to be so into his character and not 'acting'. Watching this movie really makes one yearn for their youth. I realize now (at 38) that youth IS wasted on the young! I've always loved this movie - seeing it for the first time when I was in my early twenties. But now I watch it in a different way. I realize that some parts of life should be frozen in time somehow, in order to enjoy them again and again. The best scenes in the movie:
1) The opening scene when Gardner Barnes (Kevin Costner) rips Suzy Amis' half of the picture off and says "Almost, darling, but not quite."
2) When Gardner and Kenneth (Sam Robards) are laughing and having a great time having a bottle rocket fight in the cemetery and fall in front of a recently buried Marine killed in Vietnam. This scene is so poignant. Gardner's comment, "Sorry, friend." leads into a great scene. Gardner and Kenneth turn and look at the lights and smoke from the bottle rockets and realize that a battle in Vietnam must be something like that.
3) The dance scene at the end - has an instrumental song ever been put to better use than "It's For You" by Pat Metheny? And the way the others in the crowd fade out little by little...a great scene.
4) The entire parachute school sequence - enough said!
5) The end scenes...I get teary eyed each time I watch this ending...I used to wish a sequel would be made but now I realize that the ending couldn't be improved upon. I think having Kenneth and the Girl (Suzy Amis) leave without telling Gardner goodbye makes sense. The final scene with Gardner making a toast to his friends (which we viewers know he'll probably never see again) is a classic.
6) Aw, heck...the whole movie. I can watch this film over and over (and have, probably 50 times in the last 15 years or so) and never tire of it. Don't miss it. It is truly a wonderful film.