I noticed that when I watched the extras and I did some research on the movie that a whole lot of folks didn't read the book. I think that the saving grace of this collection is that they include Walter Tevis' novel. I picked this up as a David Bowie fan, and I don't like to admit to that because it's pretty much stupid to pick up a film because your favorite musician is moonlighting as the star of the film. It was also made at a point where Bowie was at his most compelling artistically and 2 of his best albums lift images from the film for use as album covers.

That means nothing because Criterion packed the novel with the DVD. I picked up the Criterion copy without having read the novel or seen the movie. I decided to read the novel first and it was one of the most arresting pieces of literature I have ever read. The story was simple, yet sublime. And the experience of reading the novel seemed to break the wall between the reader and the reading and it became a very experiental read. Some of the commentary on the story points out an existential underpinning to the novel and I believe it. You feel anxiety at times, as well as alienation and discovery. Again, very experiental. It functions as very meaningful art.

On the other hand the movie, while on one hand rewrites the characters, the events, the plot, and even the purpose and aims of the novel, is also a stupid, stupid, stupid movie. I can imagine walking away from the movie thinking something deeper is going on, but it really isn't. You can see this by what they added to the movie. There are moments that they adapt dialogue from the book, but there are meaningless asides all over the film. It's hard to explain, but absorb the novel and then watch the film and you can see how badly all the creative liberties were implemented. It's crummy.

Candy Clark and Rip Torn are both interviewed for the Criterion edition of the film, as is Buck Henry and the let you know that while they haven't read the novel before or since, the script was something special. Not all enigmatic art is good art, and not all abstract or experimental filmmaking is successful. Just read the book first and this won't seem like a negative review.

Also, becomes an exercise in sexual exploration when that theme was not even explored in the novel. There is maybe 2 lines in the book that're vaguely sexual. One of the most touching elements of Newton's and Betty-Jo's (renamed Mary-Lou in the movie) is the nature of their relationship. Betty-Jo comes on to Newton but her role is more maternal, her purpose something more innocent, yet devestating. The fact that they don't cross the line says something deeper about the relationship. Bryce's character does not include an array of disposable co-eds. He's shaken by the death of his wife and feels shame and guilt for even ogling a woman while watching a movie. The screenwriter explains his adaption of the novel but he used the book in a very vague way, much how the Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter was made a silly commentary on uninhabited sexuality in a puritanical setting (with a 90's twist!) in the film version starring Demi Moore and Gary Oldman.

So yeah. Blah blah blah. Read the book. This was by no means an exhaustive list of liberties taken and that kind of thing doesn't bother me. It was just silly and I want as many people to know as possible that the film is completely shallow and has nothing of real value to say, at least nothing that the book didn't already say with greater lucidity.