I'm reviewing the vhs version here because I think more people will see it and I'm not going into any "extra's" anyhow.

So lets get to the movie. I titled my review as such because when I did a "Big Fish" review, someone else called that film the "Terms of Endearment for men". Which I didn't get. (If you read my review on that movie (please do and if it is helpful rate me please!) It was more about the adventures of one man, Edward Bloom, than about the relationship dynamic between a father/son. Maybe the lack of a relationship, throw some "Postcards From the Edge" in there and really confuse people-but I don't know. That comparison was making a purse out of a pigs ear if you ask me. And if you're reading this, you're asking me, -sorta.

I should note that you have to read my "about me" section if I tend to wander. It'll mangle your mind.(Reference to another film-Velvet Goldmine, 5 Stars also)

So back to "Brassed Off" and time to stop being brassed off about the "Big Fish" review.

It's an older movie but since it's set in one of those
Ireland/Scotland/Wales/North Britain villages that never age it's timeless. It could be happening yesterday for all we know except for a brief reference to Margaret Thatcher as the current Prime Minister at the beginning.  The story is typical and well known. It's been done with great success in
many films, the most popular probably being "The Full Monty" which also went on (inexplicably) to be a broadway musical.

The "MANAGEMENT" (ooh they MUST be evil) are deciding whether the coal mine that supports the town is viable or not. Lines are drawn, we are supposed to root for the litle guys who of course aren't the scabs and all of them just happen to play in the only other viable operation the town has going for it, a brass band.

That is after they climb out of the mine shaft covered in soot, swinging their lunch-buckets at the end of the day, and are suitably cleaned up. You can picture it already can't you? Hard working lads who enjoy a pint now and then.

Immediately we are introduced to the the character of "Glorious [...] Gloria"(Tara Fitzgerald) who left the town sometime ago. How happy under the circumstances that not only does she play the fluglehorn brilliantly, she also works for MANAGEMENT; and has a shared past first sexual experience with Andy (Ewan McGregor), a trumpetor himself. She just doesn't feel the need to disclose that bit of information to anyone, not even poor Andy.

This fits neatly into what is essentially a sideline to the story.

The heart of it is Danny (Pete Postlethwaite), the bands conductor, and Phil(Stephen Tompkinson), his son who got into a lot of financial trouble during the last strike at the mine years ago and is losing everything, including his family and eventually part of his mind now that MANAGEMENT is back in town. It is this story that holds "Brassed Off" together, not
the Ewan/Tara subplot that the box cover wants to sell copies from because of Ewan McGregor's fame.

I am a giant Ewan McGregor fan, just look at my profile and lists and you'll see that, but this movie is soooo not about him. He is a bit player. If that is what you are shopping for then ok, it's a good part, small but good.

Other than that it is the story of how a town can drag itself out of the ashes, how a father and son can have a relationship together that isn't manly or sappy but real. It is a story of how sometimes when you have very little to hold on to it's better to hold tighter when giving up would be the easiest thing to do. Spoiler alert if you read the next paragraph!

The ensemble casting was perfect. These were real people. This was a real place.  It has a happy ending -I'll spoil that for you but isn't that what you want? A happy ending?

This is a film that depicts people who have reached the very lowest they can go and the very highest they can acheive, and yet there is still room for more hope and happiness at an unfinished ending. I highly recommend this to anyone who liked the Full Monty. I recommend this and add that you wil enjoy it more. I also recommend the soundtrack. Who knew Danny Boy by a brass band could be so
moving?