A language arts teacher by the name of L. Gleasmann recently stated here that he ran a VHS copy of THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME (1932)to his students, and after a few minutes - because of some complaints from his students not wanting to watch a "black-and-white movie" and that actor Leslie Banks was overacting like crazy -one of his students reached over and shut the machine off. Mr. Gleasmann notes about the minor departures between the short story and the film and says:

 "Still, it had Literature Series printed at the bottom, so I assumed that those who directed and produced this video did so with students in mind. Ten minutes after I plopped the video into my VCR (I know--cut me some slack), I noticed a recurring feature: It was in black and white. While we as English teachers may revere black and white as a reflection of "pure" filmmaking, it is an instant turnoff for nearly all students."

He later states:

"They had called my bluff, and, most importantly, they had brought me back to reality--I had just wasted my money. Never in my seventeen years of teaching have I had happen what occurred next: a student popped out of his desk and pressed the eject button on the VCR. I could have given him a warning or a detention for breaking my rule of not touching someone else's property, but at this point we all agreed that he had performed an act of compassion.

My sage advice: It may be nostalgic for a few movie buffs but likely won't appeal to a younger audience."

Oh, really?!!?? Well, guess what? I have SEEN this film in a theater not long ago - the print was washed and the sound not the best - but the film held the audience (of mixed ages) spellbound for a little over an hour. The film is nearly 80 years old. Yes, it should be put into a historical contezt (with KING KONG for one thing, since it shared some of the same sets, crew, actors, etc.) - which is something you DID NOT DO!

Did actor Leslie Banks overact as the mad "Count Zaroff"? Maybe so, but his portrayal of a madman seemed fine for audiences in 1932. Ditto for Bela Lugosi in THE RAVEN (1935), Basil Rathbone for LOVE FROM A STRANGER (1937) or Boris Karloff in John Ford's THE LOST PATROL (1934). Future audiences may consider Anthony Hopkins' performance as "Hannibal Lecter" as "corny" or "over-the-top" at some future time. I'm sure the students took issue with Robert Armstrong's acting as the drunken brother of the heroine. Not one of my favorite of his generally good performances.

However, Mr. Gleasmann, had you watched the rest of the film you and your students just MIGHT have enjoyed it. If anything it's a brilliant editing job - the last half (or more) of the film runs like greased lightning - a skill that still hampered film productions in the early days of the "talkies." The 1932 version of the classic short story is still the best version that's ever been done. Maybe Mr. Gleasmann ought to get a good quality DVD of the film, talk about the kind of films Hollywood was making at the time and give the film - and his students - another chance. They just might learn something about good film-making and how to decently adapt a story to the screen!