Other reviewers covered the story lines so I'd like to share my views.

Action packed Korean cinema at its best like Man from Nowhere.  Realistic and gripping.  Superb acting without over the top special effect martial arts scenes.  Chinese action movies border of comical ridiculousness with men flying, special effect filled martial arts and sword scenes.  Chinese action drama crudely inserts pretty women and some kind of joke romance.  Guess that's what it takes to draw in the women viewers yet so obviously FAKE after thoughts not to mention rounds of humanly impossible martial action scenes.

Villains played by the Manchu fighters were real and added to the drama.  The lead villain was realistic with superb acting.

Negatives?  Hardly but it was slow in the beginning.  Tiger scene was poor special effect and could have taken out.

Now some historical perspectives:

The invaders are Manchurians who share similar languages and cultures going back thousands of years as Koreans and Mongolians, and for that matter areas between Korea and Mongolia.  Mongolians migrated to what is now Korea thru Manchuria or North East "Dong Bei" China which was in the hands on Manchu/Jurchen tribes most of the time (historically not part of China and thus Chinese built the Great Wall just north of Beijing to fend off the northern barbarians).  Parts of North East China were ruled by Koreans along with Jurchen (Manchus) most of the time until Manchus invaded China.  You can wiki Manchuria for more about history and people.

The Manchus overran the Han Chinese and established Qing dynasty about same time in early 1600's(last dynasty before it fell part in early 1900's).  Manchus got so absorbed by Han Chinese culture that the Manchurian culture is long gone and language is only spoken by few thousand people in China today.  Only few famous Chinese admit to their proud Manchu heritage.

That is why the language spoken was distinctively Manchu and does not sound like Mandarin Chinese and more like Korean.