It's probably been said before, but 24 owes a lot to the first season of Murder One, in that both shows focus on one major story arch, with a bunch of twists & turns so that the end is quite a surprise compared to where we started. It's a shame that they abandoned the one-trial-per-season format for S2, which was probably a major reason for its cancellation (along with the departure of the show's center Ted Hoffman).

Now we can relive the suspense.  I only had vague memories of how good this show was when I first saw it, and watching it again makes me realize that this show was so far ahead of its time, it blew just about every other drama out of the water.

THe large part was the interesting cast of characters:

Ted Hoffman:  The lead defense counsel, who serves as the shows' moral center, despite being in an amoral job, one in which he himself says he has to check his conscience at the door.

Neil Avedon:  THe movie star with good looks, and a bad drug habit, who may have actually killed Jessica Costello.

RIchard Cross:  The devil incarnate, one who turns up at just about every point in the trial.  Played wonderfully by Stanly Tucci, he is a calmly sinester gentleman who is seeking to cover his own ass, while pretending to be everyone's friend.

Julie Costello:  The victim's sister, who is Richard's girlfriend, and always has her own agenda.

Graham Lester:  The ultra-sleezy psychiatrist, who may or may not be involved in the murder, but who is almost certainly involved in the cover-up.

Gary Blanco:  Didn't receive as much attention as the other characters, but he was wonderful comic relief.

Miram Grasso:  A wonderful opponent for Ted Hoffman, a sweet, but tough-as-nails assistant DA, who will not hesitate to go for the throat if it helps put Neil Avedon behind bars.

If this show had any major flaws it was that the junior members of Hoffman's firm really didn't have much of a personality in the early part of the show, and that the subplot cases they were given seemed to be little more than busywork.  Once they dropped it (after the show's holiday haitus), the secondary firm characters really stepped up, especially Justine, who was clearly torn between two loyalties, between Ted Hoffman & Richard Cross, which was one of the more interesting mini-arcs of the second part of the season.

The other thing I wasn't too keen on was the Hoffman family dynamic.  I know what they were trying to do, but I'm not certain it came off as well, although the ending was nice (in that there was no real ending, which was true to life).

The extras were sparse, with two commentaries and a 25 minute featurette.  The commentaries were OK at best, but the featurrette was great, as they got most of the major players to come in and comment on that season.

All in all, an excellent show that deserved far better treatment than it got from ABC (and how many times have we heard that about a network)?