Being one of those few who DID see Secretary, I was completely shocked when I found out this delightful little film was written and directed by the same person. Why, because I found the first film to be a disturbing and completely self-indulgent mess that left me wondering if I had drunk from the wrong bottle. What is equally shocking to me is that Secretary is the more well-known of the two films-especially since this one boasts far more star power than the other (honestly, who is James Spader compared to the great Robert Downey Jr.?), and this film seems to actually have some color in its story. Where the entirety of Secretary's appeal was in its look (gorgeous cinematography), Fur actually pulled me in so far as to make me completely believe in its quirk. I loved this film from the beginning to the end, and while the third act felt a bit unoriginal, there was never that eye-rolling Nicholas Sparks level of banality to turn me off to it.

The film starts out with our heroine, the great-albiet heavily fictionalized- Diane Arbus (Nicole Kidman), riding a bus through the countryside, scratching down possible ideas for her photography project. We see from the get-go that Diane is not the typical American photographer, as her first stop is a nudist colony where the rules vary from no staring to no erections. The first scene is indication enough that the film has a few of its buttons undone-enough that the audience is tested for their open-mindedness just as thoroughly as the characters.

The great majority of the film is told in flashback through a minute fraction of Diane's life. It begins with her dressing for a party and fashion show held by her parents in her family's home. She is obviously frustrated and feels supressed by her typical and bland lifestyle, so much so that she quite literally has to open her blouse on the porch to feel she can breathe. We can see from the way everyone around her seems to view her that Diane is a kind of black sheep, only able to tell the truth of her strange desires to her husband, although he in turn finds her peculiar. Diane wants more from life than to be the doting housewife, who contributes something of her own. We do not know what this is until Diane locks eyes with a masked man standing outside her window, the moment from where her adventure begins. Diane is instantly captivated by this mysterious stranger, who incidentally is about to become her new neighbor. Armed with nothing but a polaroid camera, Diane ventures not just up to his apartment, but into a whole new world that exists just inside his door. The man, named Lionel (Robert Downey Jr.), is actually an ex circus freak who wears a mask in public to hide his curious condition. He suffers from a genetic disorder called Hypertrichosis, which causes excessive amounts of hair growth. With a less charismatic leading man, I can see how presenting such a grotesque character could be an instant lip-curler; enough of one to keep the audience out of the story for the duration of the film. However, Downey Jr. gives a tour de force performance, endearing the character of Lionel to such a degree that it seems criminal that it is not one of his more admired roles. As a viewer, you don't quite 'forget' about his appearence, because that is not what is called for. Instead, Downey Jr. brings so much humanity to the character that you actually come to like his strange look as much as Diane does.

Diane and Lionel lock on to each other almost immediately, forming a deep relationship that inevitably leans towards the romantic in the end. However, what sells this romance is that on the surface, it seems to exhibit that dead-horse of a formula we have all seen a million times, but is built on a foundation that is so unusual, it feels completely fresh. Diane opens up to Lionel about her strangeness in a way she has never been able to explain to anyone, including herself. She explains to him her fascination with the things in the world that most turn a blind-eye to: magicians, dwarves, giants, prostitutes, the deformed, even the dead. Lionel, seeing the artist in her that no one including herself does, introduces her to the world of the bizarre. He takes her to visit transvestites, morgues, even a dominatrix, all of which slowly but steadily bring Diane out of her shell and lead her to discover her true abilities. However, the conflict lies in that Diane is likewise becoming alienated from her family, expecially her old-fashioned husband who begins to grow skeptical and jealous of the budding relationship between her and Lionel. As his support of her growing creativity wanes, Diane's ability to seperate herself from Lionel does as well.

Where this film totters is the third act, where it does take a clich&eacute;d turn that I, for however much I was enjoying it otherwise, couldn't ignore. I won't  spoil it, although it really is not too difficult a conclusion to figure out. I WILL say that it was too safe and predictable an ending that tried to cover itself using some powerful scoring and cheesy melodrama. It could have been a knockout ending to an otherwise great film, which ultimately leads me to give it four stars out of five. The film, if given a chance, is not a disappointment by any means, regardless of the final part of the third act. However, that being said, this film is not one that is targeted for a mainstream audience, and thankfully it was not marketed that way upon its release. What I mean by that is that this film has a particular viewer in mind; a person who keeps an open mind while watching movies and whose opinion of films are not decided by appearences alone. Nicole Kidman is beautiful in this film, even though, while I didn't take points away for this, her choice to whisper a good percentage of her lines got to be distracting at points. The chemistry between her and Robert Downey Jr. is based on so much more than the dialogue, and I was so embursed while watching them together that by the end, I wasn't paying any mind to how they delivered their lines. Overall, this is a beautiful film that while I won't go so far to say shines at an Oscar caliber level, is lovely for what it is and hopefully will be come to be appreciated more than it is in the years to come.