Prison break is one of my favorite shows on TV.  I loved the show on first viewing, it was so raw, visceral, and so entertaining.  I could not see how the show could be as good as it is for 22 episodes, or how they could go forward with multiple seasons (the characters are amazing, and while watching the show, you just want more) but luckily for me, and everyone else, the show does go on, and gets even better in the subsequent seasons.  They are even planning a spin-off called Prison Break: Cherry Hill.

If you never watched this show, it is structured similarly to 24, Lost, and Heroes.  Meaning, each episode is not self contained, but rather, continues on each episode, offering multiple storylines throughout the season.  Every episode ends with a cliffhanger, making it downright impossible to wait another week.  You will tear through this series in 2-3 days.  I really hope Fox will release season 2 on blu-ray soon, and announce their plans for 24 (it was supposed to be released around the same time as season 1 of prison break).

Now on to the Blu-Ray particulars.

The show was shot, and aired in high def.  I managed to watch these in high def (when the show aired, cable, nor sat offered HD locals, so we had to move the antenna all over the place to pick up fox, and move the antenna back, to watch cbs or some other station!).  With that said, these blu-ray dvds, look even better than I remember (Fox airs in 720p, or did back during this season).  The show looks very good, movie quality good.  It is presented in widescreen (not full screen, as the listing states).  Each disc contains 4 episodes, the last disc has 2.  You will notice no pixelation, nor any bad spots on the release.  This is one of the best looking blu-ray discs I own.  Blacks are black, contrast is high, there are no faults to be found in this blu-ray release.

The sound is presented in DTS-HD Lossless Master Audio 5.1 Surround track (48kHz/24-bit).  The soundtrack is fantastic, you can hear everything. The sound effects are fantastic, you get a nice sense of depth, and it seems as though you can hear everything that is going on inside the prison.

The only negative I can think of is season 2 has yet to be announced on blu-ray.  So now I have to buy season 2 on dvd, because I must watch season 2 again. The show is really that good.