Saturday Night Fever, was the movie that started a national dance craze, and music movement that lasted until the early eighties. It also caused a fashion craze, where people would actually dress flashy, sophisticated and stylish, if a bit over the top, with all the polyester. It is the story of one Tony Manero, a 19 year old Brooklynite in '77, who worked as a paint salesman by day, and on the weekends, was the King of the 2001 Odessy, the local NY hotspot, where you only went if you were "in", hip, and happening. Out on the streets of Brooklyn, he was a mere nobody, but when he hit the nightclub scene, "The crowd would part like the Red Sea, for he and his posse, the "Faces". And when he hit the dance floor, it was absolute, magic. Manero's moves were choreographed by none other than Danny Terio(?) of "Dance Fever". The women were all about sex, and one night stands were the order of the night in the pre-AIDS late 70's era. Look fast,and you'll see Fran Drescher try to pick up on Tony....but alas, he has eyes only for sexy Stephanie Mangano, because, in Tony's own words, "She can move...she's got the wrong dance partner of course, but she can move."....but eventually, his rough around the edges charm wins Stephanie as well, but he is a product of the rough streets, and she is a sophisticated socialite from Manhattan, too old for Tony, but the world stops when they hit the dance floor. A very interesting sidestory involves Tony's ex-priest brother, and little Joey, who cant seem to ever get things right. The plot centers around Tony's growing up, his complex relationship with his idiot friends, and Stephanie, and around the big Dance Contest, that he must win to show his dominance of Brooklyn's dance floors. But he has other lessons to learn along the way, about life. Of this movie I can only say one thing....I deeply regret not being in my twenties, and not living in NYC during the fabulous 70's, when people knew how to dress,dance, and play and the music (The Bee-Gees, Chic, Heatwave, Ohio Players, ect, ect.) completley blew away much of the asinine crap played at the clubs today. I would have been in my element....SNF is highly recommended.