Alright, it's late, it's raining and thunder/lightning is flashing on occasion out the window here in L.A.

So, for the first time I can remember, I've joined this forum to comment on something. And I've been reading these things for awhile.

I'm a filmmaker, working occasionally, at home trying to write these past days, and for some reason, tonight as the thunder and lighting crash outside my window, I feel like talking about Battlestar Galactica.

I'm 33 years old and almost embarrased to admit it. Not because i'm old, but because as a kid, I was hopelessly addicted to the original BSG when it first came out. I had the plastic viper that shot the little red thing and the cylon ship that did the same but in tandem.

I was a fan of the show then, because it was cool. I knew it wasn't perfect, (Boxy?) but a viper is just too cool, and what's better for a kid to think about than humanity's desperate trek toward a shining, distant orb known only as Earth?

But then I grew up and moved on. I started to like more complex things, even though i never truly lost my love for all things cool. But, Ron D. Moore and company recognized that the fans of that show had grown up, and it was the smartest realization they could have made.

BSG is for grown up kids that want something deeper than they've been getting on t.v., especially genre t.v.

To me, Battlestar Galactica has become what Star Wars Ep I, II, and III should have been, oh if only could have been! It's become something real, that makes it's audience think, and feel even as it's characters do, it is about real things and issues whether you care about these things or not, and it still kicks arse at the same time.

It is not about gadgets and CGI and only cool things although it excels at them without trying.

It's about humanity, about the great journey we all undertake, like it or not, as we discover what it means to be human, in all our flawed, pathetic glory.

It is a show about persevering through the impossible, about stumbling at our moments of triumph, about laughing in the face of our own destruction.

This show speaks more to me about religion, politics and the human spirit than I ever found in Sunday school or CNN.

It gets down and dirty when other shows in it's genre get high and mighty.

In episodes like "Flesh and Blood" it talks of humanity's ablility to marginalize and idolize and demonize, and fear, and overcome fear with faith and hard work, without preaching or even appearing to teach. When Adama says, "No" to Leoben's corpse, whilst looking as if he may just brain the corpse for fun, you know this is a man with such fire, he will never give in and he is too human to give up even though everything says he probably should.

There is true wisdom at the heart of this show, it's tapped in to some universal sense of honesty and truth I only can hint at. In "33", perhaps the finest bit of t.v. I've seen yet, (not that I've seen it all) we can see ourselves in the decisions these characters must make at a moment's notice, decisions that can save 49,000 lives even as they may destoy a 1,000, but at what cost? At what cost do we lose our souls and become the cylon menace we fear?

BSG tells us more than Fox or CNN about why we are in Iraq and Afganistan and why we find it so easy to shut off our emotions at some times or to be overcome by them at others.

One man's terrorist is another man's hero, just ask Richard Hatch's amazing character. Indeed, every character is a gem,large or small, and in fact some of my favorites, like Chief Tyrol, were only meant as minor parts. A drunken XO? A sexually liberated viper pilot that smokes cigars and flips her superiors off? Cylons with souls that envy and love?

It is more like Alphaville than Stargate. It is a testament to truly the best writing on the most consistant level since the original Twilight Zone that every character succeeds so well and is so... fracking human.

I often think in watching this show, back to how ridiculed Rod Serling was after leaving his Emmy Winning Playhouse 90 for a 'cheesy little' sci-fi show called "The Twilight Zone". Well, I mistakenly thought badly of Edward James Olmos when i first heard he was joining this show, before i knew anything about it. Honestly, at first i stayed away, afraid my beloved childhood memories may be sullied in the same way Star Wars had been for me.

But I was proven wrong even just as critics were in the time of Rod Serling. Olmos is a smart, talented man, and so is Ron Moore and David Eick and the others responsible for BSG.

They knew that one great way to reach the human heart, was through sci-fi, through flights of fantasy which allow us to look back on ourselves in a new, fresh way.

On a weekly basis this show has more heart and soul than probably ninety percent of what Hollywood puts into theaters in a year.

Shame on the rest of us in Hollywood for not being brilliant enough to put such reality in our own work. And shame on the Emmys for overlooking such creativity this year.

But then, as I sit here at almost two a.m. now suffering from writers block, writing instead about this show I love, I have to admit, to do such things as BSG is not easy, as no good writing or execution of writing to film ever is. I know this to be true.

This show should be supported in every way and I only hope that someday I get to visit the set, because really... the chicks are hot, and I just want to sit in a viper, just once for old times sake.

Cause afterall, when you get past the deeper elements and want something to simply to kick ass, well this show does it and how, and a viper is just too damn cool, ain't it?

Edited by Lancelotcq2 (09/20/05 06:31 AM)