This movie /may&iexcl;¦ have a good point buried in all the chaos, but it&iexcl;¦s doubtful. From the get-go, the movie &iexcl;¥wants&iexcl;¦ to focus on a 911 theme, but never reaches it because when the line FINALLY comes where you are told about the incident, music is continually playing WHILE Adam Sandler tells the story. Ugh! You never get to get involved in feeling the moment because you never really get to &iexcl;¥hear&iexcl;¦ it. Way too stressing to continually sort out lines form actors vs music, it appears no one actually viewed this movie as a listening audience before it was released. No thanks for that oversight people.

OK, main points:

1) The movies wanted to tie in a 911 theme with god-only-knows what and succeeded in producing a total waste of time, money, emotions, etc.

2) The main character here in Adam Sandler is a ridiculous mix-match of a supposedly a widower who loved his wife and daughters, yet continuously spoke of females in a derogative manner, hence creating a totally unbelievable character. To mourn is one thing; to be an a-hole is another. No woman as described in this story would even marry the person portrayed by Sandler, let alone have daughter after daughter with him. Totally unbelievable storyline at best.

3) If you want a 911 story, write one. If you want a jerk-story, write one. Don&iexcl;¦t do both as you did here. The 911 incidents are nothing to be made fun of or twisted with crap in there. Leave them alone if you cannot address them and the people we honor there in style and with class. The people who created this movie owe all of us an apology. Learn how to truly develop a GOOD solid storyline, then actually see if someone besides family would turn this into reality for you without using your money. Then actually have a real test audience see if they can &iexcl;¥hear&iexcl;¦ what the actors say before you go live.

This movies misses all the  key elements of plot, style&iexcl;Keverything&iexcl;Kand  should never have gotten off the ground. Totally shameful excuse to swear, have someone act like a total dork (that has absolutely nothing to do with mourning, yet asks us to believe this??) and yet tie in 911 all together. Shameful. All fingers and thumbs down. This deserves a negative rating, but Amazon does not offer this.

And to Adam Sandler, stick to great movies like the Wedding Singer. For some reason, you seem to like being depicted as cursing with very inappropriate language, not becoming of you as a human, let alone actor. You can act, do it. And stop trying to purposely turn your audiences off when you have so much greater potential. Turn us off with negative characters, OK, not with negative acting. This so-called character wasn&iexcl;¦t even developed and worthy of your efforts. Turn that crap down, dude º

Don Cheadle, Solid acting with good character amidst this stupid storyline especially with totally awful female plot they stuck in with you who simply had to act as no woman would in real life, of course, using more twisted language with a stupid lawsuit. It&iexcl;¦s like the people who made this movie are 14 and on drugs the whole time. Can&iexcl;¦t fault you for that, but your performance outshined Adam Sandler&iexcl;¦s BIG time, but you did have more to work with. Adam needs to turn more of these type roles down and grasp better movie offers that I&iexcl;¦m sure come his way.

So much more could have actually been made out of this theme. Maybe some mature adults with a solid background behind them of good movie-making could pick up the slack some day and do it justice, or at least not insult the USA with a cheap shot at trying to create a 911 movie.