Let me tell you a story, and take you back in time.
The year, was 1986. The world had last known Batman as Adam West, a campy, blue caped superhero who fought the likes of a silly goofball named the Joker, among others, whilst passing on good advice to his good natured compadre, Robin. His use of puns, bad one liners and amusing dance routines genuinely made people laugh, and unfortunately reinforced the idea that the Batman was nothing more than a wierd man in a costume, masquerading around town with his teenage pals.

A man named Michael Uslan had been trying for years, as one of his life's pursuits, to awaken to the world a different vision of Batman, in his opinion, and many others, the real vision of Batman, as a Dark Guardian of his city, striking terror into the hearts of criminals as he stalked the city rooftops, protecting the innocent.
Finally, with the help of a well funded producer, and the creator of Batman himself, Bob Kane, Michael Uslan managed to get Warner Bros. to accept the possibility of making a serious Batman film.

And so the great wheel began to turn, towards a date in 1989 when the world rediscovered a hero.

Fast forward to the summer of 1989 and you'll find thousands of fans, dressed in Batman tshirts and hats, waiting to see this mega-blockbuster movie.

The first Batman movie portrays the Dark Knight as Adam West never could, opening the eyes of people everywhere to a stoic, avenging man whose quest to defeat evil in his city has lead him to become a terrifying creature of the night, The Batman. Micheal Keaton uses his talents to portray Batman as a driven man, one who masquerades as just a social billionaire in the daytime, all the while waiting to descend into another life, the one he truly wants to live. Dark and mysterious, Tim Burton's vision of the Batman encompasses the best of the comics that inspired him, portraying an avenging guardian angel, whose only purpose is to defend the weak and innocent people of his city.

Jack Nicholson portrays an insane, but brilliant madman, the Joker, who terrorizes the citizens of Gotham with his cruel and deadly jokes.

Tim Burton redefines all the elements of Batman's world, and brings them to the big screen in a way never before seen by audiences. An engaging, twisting and turning plot drives the characters and the film to a satisfying ending that will have you wishing it was Halloween, so you too could put on the cape and cowl of the Batman.

All in all, the first Batman movie is by far one of the best, and it captures Batman as he was always meant to be captured, as the Dark Knight we all know today.