...he'd be a man of my dreams if he wasn't a criminal...

I love Al Pacino and every movie he's done except "The Devil's Advocate"... Al's performance here is flawless and I expected nothing less... His character, however, is not nearly as impressive... In his third failing marriage, this guy's priority is clearly not his relationships... Incapable of intimacy, poor pathetic soul chases the bad guys so intensely that he has nothing left to give to the woman he supposedly loves... Why not stay single instead and concentrate on what you're good at?... Nope, did not like this guy in the least... I found myself mesmerized by the character played by De Niro instead... To my surprise, De Niro's performance was top notch as well... I'm not a big fan of De Niro - I don't consider him as talented of an actor as Pacino - but I was blown away by his performance in "Heat"... How can a bad guy be so good?... His brand of self-control and self-discipline gave me goosebumps!... His ability to make a split-second decision and stick to it without looking back would make him a top notch candidate for an executive...Instead, he robes banks...Like his opponent, Pacino, he is very good at what he does, so good in fact, that he earns an admiration and respect of the man desperately trying to chase him down... De Niro has not been in a relationship before - unlike Pacino he understands the demands of his livelihood and stays clear from anything that he can't walk away from on a moment's notice when he "feels the heat around the corner"... This will change, but I don't want to completely spoil the movie for you... De Niro kills - once hesitantly (5 seconds of a pause is an eternity for a man who can make decisions in a fraction of a second) when forced by a trigger happy sociopath who unfortunately took part in one of his gigs, and twice to settle a score... Paradoxically, this criminal has a strong sense of honor, loyalty and justice... Yes, I like him, I like him a lot... He reminds me of Pacino's Carlito in "Carlito's Way", another movie I love...