Like the novel, Ridley Scott's Hannibal is a journey into Lecter's universe. Julianne Moore said it best: this film is like an "hallucination". The hallucination of a madman (in this case an almost godly-superhuman madman not your real-life serial killer) in which the madman is the hero.
The Silence of the Lambs was basically about Clarice Starling. Hannibal is more than ever about Hannibal Lecter, and so the movie must be as morbidly perverse as the doctor himself, because this is his world. It's his movie. Starling had her chance to be the star in Silence of the Lambs. Now Lecter gets his in Hannibal.
Director Ridley Scott is able to capture the essence of Hannibal's universe, FIRST through beautiful, luscious visuals (this film is much more beautiful than Demme's Silence - hope John Mathieson will not be forgotten come next year's Oscars), THEN through classical music (without sounding pretentious I think Hans Zimmer's original score also has a very classical root - hope Zimmer is not forgotten come next year's Oscars - this is a masterful score), and FINALLY through gruesome, shocking images. I'm sorry but the violence was necessary for this film, because, again, it is Lecter's world we are entering. Frankie Faison (who plays Barney) also said something interesting that brings further understanding of this film: "Silence of the Lambs was more in your head, while Hannibal is more in your face", and that's exactly right. Since this is a madman's hallucination it wouldn't make sense to hide us from its true horrors.
I'm disappointed, not by the movie, but by the reaction of most critics (but thank you Mr. Corliss). I'm not going to use that old excuse and say critics didn't understand it, but your enjoyment of a movie depends on the way you perceive things.
My only problem with the film is that the supporting characters lack the depth of the novel, particularly Cordell Doemling and Krendler. I would have liked to see Mason's sister Margot who was erased for the film. The film's ending is an interesting one, although very different from the novel.  As different as the ending is the last two minutes WERE in the book, only it doesn't occur at the same time in the story. 
Hannibal has flaws, but it remains a strong, moving (I was moved by the dynamic between Lecter and Starling, especially when it all comes together in the end), sensory experience. Hopkins remains hypnotic in most scenes (the Academy, remember this). Julianne Moore delivers the goods, particularly in the emotional scenes. Gary Oldman as Mason Verger is chilling with his rusty, raw voice (hope the makeup for this film is not forgotten come next year's Oscars, that would be a crime).
...let Hannibal haunt you!!! And don't compare it too much to Silence of the Lambs, because it's not the same kind of movie and its aims are not the same.
Note: Hope the studio goes all out on the DVD and make it the ultimate Hannibal Lecter collector's edition. Documentary, deleted scenes (I think there's an hour of unused footage, so put it there please), in-depth commentaries, behind-the-scenes photos, maybe a little word from Thomas Harris (that would be a dream come true Mr. Harris), and so on, and so on.