The sons of Genghis Khan gave the Dahlia Lama his name, which means "ocean of wisdom".  In Asia the Tibetans practiced non-violence for over one thousand years.  The Dahlia Lama was their ruler; his was the human manifestation of the Buddha of compassion.  In 1933 the thirteenth Dahlia Lama died.  Four years later a holy man, found himself in a far corner of Tibet, he was searching for the fourteenth Dahlia Lama.  A Buddha had been reborn.  The beginning of the story goes like this.... The mother was talking to her son saying, "Your father had been sick and we thought he would die, some cows, horses, a yak, and chickens had died."  She said that all the farmers had bad crops for four years.  She told her son, "One night I knew you were coming and at dawn you were born and you did not cry.  Your father got better and named you Lhamo, the protector."  Lhamo loved to hear the story of his birth.
Tibetan men came into the village and Lhamo seemed to had sensed something.  One of the Tibetan men bent down to talk to Lhamo and Lhamo saw that the man was wearing his necklace.  Lhamo then told the man that the necklace he was wearing was his.  The man said, "If you can tell me my name, I will give you the necklace."  Lhamo told the name man that his name was Lama and he was correct.  Lama did not stay long but when he left Lhamo started to cry.  The same man returned that night and the mother got Lhamo out of bed, took him into the room where Lama was.  There was man items lying on a table and Lama asked Lhamo, "What else belongs to you?"  Lhamo picked up a drum, a bell, a stick, a bowl, a pair of glasses, and finally a cain.  He was able to pick out all of the items that belonged to the thirteenth Dahlia Lama.  Lama then called the little boy "Kundun".  Kundun was recognized from this point on to be the fourteenth Dahlia Lama.  He was taken to a monastery where he was given a regent which is a monk teacher.  The teacher told him that, "To this life you will be born again and again as long as all life continues.  Love, care and have compassion for all living things.  The Buddha shall appear."  Kundun was dressed in gold from head to toe.  All the Tibetan people were present; he was then introduced as the "Buddha of compassion", "the wishful fulfilling jewel", "the fourteenth Dahlia Lama".  Kundun was continually being taught about the three jewels and the importance of the Four Noble Truths but it seemed that he already had wisdom beyond his years.
By the time he became about seventeen or eighteen years old the Chinese were getting ready to invade Tibet.  As a leader he was uncertain about his ability to save the people.  Lord Chamberlain told Kundun that he needs the warning of predecessor or the war will end here.  Kundun was then given a letter and told that it was written when the thirteenth Dahlia Lama was eighteen years old.  The letter said that he had to lead spiritually and be the secular head of the country, and that the Chinese invaded.  He said, "The power of truth was great, we prayed and the Karma is infallible, we routed the Chinese out."  Then the monk that read Kundun the letter told him, "You are the man that wrote this letter, you must lead us."  Kundun had decided to write President Truman of the United States a letter, asking if they would come to the aid of Tibet.  He never received any true confirmation.  During all of this Kundun lost his friend and teacher, Regent Reting.  They held a ritual for Regent Reting and over his body they said, "Do not be distracted as you enter into the coming of the awareness, go to your father, he is dead."
China had three demands of Tibet which was Tibet must except that it is part of China, Tibet's defenses must be conducted by China, and that all political and trade matters concerning foreign countries must be conducted through China.  Kundun said, "We accept no conditions from China.  I will consult our protective deities; Lord Buddha appears where he is needed."  China invaded by crossing into six locations of Tibet.  Kundun heard on the radio that Tibet agreed to China's conditions. The Tibetan people found themselves living in a feudal kingdom under the tyranny of the Dahlia Lama.
Kundun became of age and celebrated the auspicious day for his enthronement.  At that time Kundun told the monks to free the prisoners.  He said, "The gods will win."  Kundun then left for the Indian border.  The monks pleaded for him not to go.  He went there first to gather with his people.  Here he heard over the Chinese radio that today the surrender of Tibet was complete.  The people Republic of Tibet signed a seventeen point agreement that returned Tibet to the motherland.  The Dahlia Lama Representative signed the agreement in his name.  Kundun went to China to talk with Chairman Mao.  Chairman Mao told Kundun that religion is poison and that it retards the minds of the people.  Kundun returned home because he knew there was nothing he could do.  China began bombing the monasteries and killing the monks.  Kundun had a dream of standing in the middle of thousands of dead monks and after that he said that wisdom and compassion will set us free.  He said, "You cannot liberate us, you can only liberate one's self."  "Beings are released by the teachings of the truth."  For Kundun's safety he was told to go to India.  He has not yet returned....
Relating this movie back to the practice of Buddhism, it is known that Buddhists are non-violent as it relates to any living creature.  One's life reflects back to your deeds that you do each and every day, known as karma.  The movie depicts what monks look like and the culture in which most of them live.  They also perform certain rituals in the movie that look somewhat like what is in the book.  It truly depicts one's desire to be of good nature, all of the ones in the movie where good to each other and extremely respectful.