I really wanted to like this one...

1) The acting was passable. No really bad stand outs, but nothing incredible, either. Sid Haig seemed pretty bored while doing this movie and just showed up for the paycheck.

2) PRODUCTION: For a movie that ACTUALLY went to the theaters, I was kind of surprised that this wasn't done as good as it could've been. I would've rather the money that was spent on the mediocre 3D effects be spent on the actual film and turned this into a much better production. It all came off as kind of amatuerish, which was disappointing. Sadly, I have read numerous articles where the writer and director have both said that they were TOLD to do specific things in this movie by the company that footed the budget and could not stray from those instructions. That company is Taurus Entertainment. In my opinion, it seems that this company is just interested in passing off mediocre shlock for a quick buck. (They also were behind a disappointing sequel to ANOTHER Romero movie, Day of the Dead 2: Contagium.) While this movie bombed at the box office, I'm sure that with DVD sales and international profits, Taurus will have more than made their initial budget back, despite the complaints of moviegoers everywhere.

3) ZOMBIES: These zombies (as you would imagine) are "Romero Shamblers," but with a little more mean in them. The make up for the zombies varied from discolored faces and special eye contacts to many facial applications. The zombies didn't look all that bad. And they eat their victims. Nothing new here.

4) THE CAUSE: Man made.

5) NUDITY: Tom and Judy in barn getting it on when the zombies attack. Tom manages to get his drawers on, yet Judy stands there and screams and then runs around outside from the zombies and finally locks herself in Tom's truck...completely nude.

Sadly, I tried to like this. I don't hate it; I'm just bothered by how bad it is. A lot of it had to due with the title. I know a lot of people will hate it just because it's a remake / re-imagining of a classic. I personally think if it was called "When Zombies Attack Rural Areas," it probably would've been received as just another lousy zombie movie. But to try and take on Romero and then do it badly, creates a lot of grief. Especially, when parts of the movie are totally changed or left out completely. NotLD was remade once in the 1990's and was pretty good. Another version of NotLD wasn't needed.

RATING: 2 out of 5