I have a lot of respect for Clint Eastwood, although I don't love all of his work. But I find it particularly difficult to judge Bird objectively as a film because it is such an awful rendering of Charlie Parker the musician, the person, the radical innovator.

I don't know exactly where to start, but I'll try starting with Forest Whitaker whose gentleness, passivity, introversion, and vulnerability--so appealing in many other roles--is grossly out of place in portraying the powerful personality of Charlie Parker. Moreover, choosing an actor who can't even blow the saxophone in a basic way (as DeNiro learned to do for New York, New York) is a travesty. Any actor playing Bird, if he is not willing to learn the horn, should at the very least learn to look *something* like Bird when miming playing the horn. If Charlie Parker was about anything it was about the music. There is no attempt in this film to explain what was so extraordinary about what Bird did--the contributions he made to modern music. One would have expected more from Eastwood, a jazz fan, than yet another Hollywood hack job, placing the music of musicians at the bottom rung of topics to explore. The lives of jazz musicians are about jazz, not dope or marital problems, and in no case is this more true than Bird's despite is catastrophic addictions and interpersonal problems. In this sense, the film Bird is no better than the dreadful Diana Ross film about Billie Holiday which completely ignored the great musical genius of Lady Day and the effect it had on recorded vocal music.

Even the soundtrack of Bird, which used the great talents of people like Barry Harris and the late Walter Davis Jr., chooses live sets to reproduce that are far from Bird's greatest. Finally, the film is extremely dull, stilted, and over-long as drama. What a sad, missed opportunity. I attended the premiere of this film in New York in the late 1980s, filled with happy expectations. Red Rodney was in the audience. I wonder what he thought.