"Wake of Dead" is the most loathsome, disgusting, unethical, and poorly shot film I've seen in a while. Even if you took out the scenes with Van Damme harassing and screaming at a defenseless 11-year old girl, thrusting in an unpleasant sex scene, stabbing a villain in the genitals, and having the good guys torture a buffoon with an electric drill, it would still be the nadir of Van Damme's dying career. This film is basically about Ben Archer (Van Damme) trying desperately to get out of the violence and secrecy that being a "mob-enforcer" entails and live his life straight for his wife (a social worker) and his young boy.  Or, as he says in his thick-tongued accent: "I'n fished. I'n tyred. I ded stuff in ma pass I'n note prood off, in ma life, I juss wantta prootek ma famile." Even though he says "I loaf ma wiffe," and thinks thrusting his waist proves it, he cannot protect her. When his wife takes her work home - when she brings home a Chinese druglord's daughter who ran away - the Chinese come looking.  It would have probably only taken about a week to get his daughter back from the American government and court system (I don't care what kind of "investigating" Van Damme's wife does, no one is going to believe a desperate story from a desperate little girl trying to stay in the country), the Chinese drug lord tracks down his daughter and does the most logical thing to do when you're in a straight-to-video action flick: he shoots everyone in the vicinity. But still, he doesn't get his daughter back! Of course, Van Damme's wife is killed. So he gets angry and kills the drug lord and about fifty other idiots. Well, all this happens after Van Damme turns maudlin, drinks gallons of liqueur, and cries out: "I'n oing to mizzah. I'n oing to mizzah." This drawn out scene made me a little uncomfortable; it probably reflects what Van Damme does every night when he thinks about the pathetic scripts he's given.

There are plenty of fight scenes for you action lovers, although Van Damme seems to have decided to give up beating people to death - like he did in his early films - and now relies wholly on shooting everyone several times.  This might have something to do with that huge shiner he has on his forehead. (Did someone crack him over the head with a liqueur bottle?) It doesn't help cover it up much when the whole film is shot entirely in extreme facial close-ups! Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying he doesn't look like he can fight. If I ever got into a fight with Van Damme, the first thing I would do would be to block all his punches with my face and head and deflect all his kicks to my solar plexus and gut. . . so I do admit he would take me in a fight. But it really doesn't do wonders for your career as an "action superstar" if you get beat up a lot.

dd