Well, Hillary Duff is the star and even producer of this small independent film shot on location in Ocean Grove and Asbury Park, New Jersey. They are both shore towns and she plays suicidal teen who is sent by her mother played by Melissa Leo to her maternal grandparents, Joseph and Katherine in Ocean Grove, a predominantly retirement community. Her grandparents are played by Michael Murphy and the wonderful Ellen Burstyn. She intends to but heads. She lives in a house where there is no cable and dial-up internet access. As for the movie, it's a coming of age story set on the Jersey Shore and I don't recognize Hilary Duff in her role as Greta. She does a brilliant job.

I am saddened to know that this film wasn't even distributed widely enough. Maybe HBO should express interest in showing this film. It has a good script, solid cast, and is memorable. It has a PG-13 rating, no profanity, and one kissing scene between Greta and her male love interest, a line cook at a seafood restaurant with an interesting past.

I live in New Jersey so I enjoyed watching the locales. The extra footage showed the cast and crew being warmly received in the communities where they shot the film. It's nice to know that Hillary took the time to meet her fans and take pictures while she was on location. I would have liked to have seen more of Melissa Leo playing Greta's mom, Karen.

Since I got the widescreen version, the pictures comes in pretty clear. It's only when I go to the special features like the deleted scenes where I had some audio trouble.

The film is nice but a little dark. It's a shame that most people won't get the chance to view it in the theatres but I think cable would be more appropriate. It's a shame that good melodramas like According to Greta are mixed in with whole the garbage of films out there.

I know that Duff fans will probably rave over her performance as being dark and completely different from the norm in light-hearted comedies. I just hope the younger Duff fans are watching it with somebody older to explain some of the darkness around it.