Make that two:  The original title for the story was "The Androgum Inheritance" - and makes a more powerful title than "The Two Doctors" which is lackluster and vain.
The other bad point is that  the second Doctor is more like the 4th, being asked to meddle by time lord  superiors so he can keep his freedom AND tells his companions he's a time  lord!  The 2nd Doctor was on the run and kept himself a secret to Jamie,  yet here we have Jamie knowing it all...
That aside, this story ROCKS!  The Sontarans are back and in style.  Robert Holmes knows how to write  stories, particularly with aliens he himself created.  (the Sontarans are a  race of clones, bred to fight - Deep Space 9 took the idea and created the  Jam Heeder which were controlled by the Dominion.)
The actual plot is  impeccable:  Third zone governments set up an alliance to learn  technologies that the time lords possess, mainly time travel.  Dastari, a  scientist, augmented an androgum (a race of people moved by emotion and the  sensual, usually in the form of cuisine as presented here) to effectively  make her a genius.  In come the Doctor and Jamie who are appalled at the  idea.  Sontarans invade and take the Doctor captive, leaving Jamie  behind.
The sixth Doctor feels the pain of the 2nd being under torture  and sets to find him via information acquired during a mindlink.  He  discovers that Dastari is part of the 3rd zone plot, as are the  Sontarans...  they want to dissect the 2nd Doctor to get at a genetic  component which allows time lords to time travel.  Thanks to a fortunate  set of events, Chessene decides to merely augment the Doctor and turn him  into an androgum - to be a consort!
But wait, the Sontarans are actually  going to doublecross Dastari and Chessene...  who will win in the end?  And  will the Doctor and Peri become vegetarians after having to deal with  Shockeye, Chessini's underling, who is hungry to eat human meat as humans  are at the top of the food chain!
The acting, particularly by John  Stratton and Jacquline Pearce is exquisite.  The 6th Doctor is at top  notch.
The subplots are wonderful and are pure genius:  The political  intrigue, the combination of Doctors, Shockeye wanting to eat a human and  his reasons why, the Sontarans' trechary, Chessini, the idea of  augmentation, Dastari turning sides, everything.
The music is impressive,  too, particularly with the Spanish influence.
Best of all is the  locationwork in Spain.
I can overlook the bad introduction of the 2nd  Doctor as the rest of it is simply a feast for the eyes.  :-)