The Big Lebowski wasn't much heralded when it first came out, but in the 10+ years since its release, it has seen by Coen Brothers fans as one of the greatest comedies of all time.  I believe that Burn After Reading will be seen in this same light 10 years from now.  It is a brilliantly written, unpredictable and suspenseful comedy that features the best of everything that we have come to expect from the Coen Brothers.  It has the quirky, witty lines of dialog, the non-formulaic plot, and the social commentary that nobody else has been able to consistently put into their films.  This film is highly entertaining on its first viewing, but it is also incredibly rich, with lots of details and themes that make it entertaining the 2nd, 5th, and 10th time that you see it.

The cast for this movie is nearly perfect.  Tilda Swanton and John Malkovich appear in their stereotypical roles of "snooty, cold bitch" and "angry intellectual elitist".  Frances McDormand are as funny as ever and Brad Pitt does a great job of playing a complete airhead, a totally new role for him.  As usual, the Coen brothers get great performances out of everyone.

It's impossible to list and describe all of the threads in this movie with a short review.  Long time Coen Brothers fans will recognize some of the themes here, like male gender role inadequacy and how it negatively influences a marriage.  Characters look like idiots when they try to sound smarter than they actually are, and they jump to conclusions with limited data.  Chaotic hilarity then ensues when these characters interact but can't actually communicate with each other.  Linda Litski (McDormand) and Osborne Cox (Malkovich) are two characters who live almost in an alternate reality and thus react with emotional denial to anything bad that happens to them.

This movie certainly has a "Big Lebowski" vibe to it, but it is also unique in a lot of ways.  As a subtle spoof of spy thrillers like the Bourne movies, it is brilliant.  The CIA and Washington DC are the backdrop for a bunch of unlikeable characters who lie and deceive to various people to get what they want.  Husband and wife engage in "espionage" while dramatic music plays in the background.  The movie constantly uses spy movie clich&eacute;s like camera shots that make you look like the characters are being watched from a distance, and suspicious surveillance vehicles that appear at regular intervals.

Most of the Coen Brothers previous works have been set in relatively small or remote areas.  This is the first one to be set in Washington DC.  The result is some scathing satire of government beauracracy and the Washington DC culture.  Just about everyone is portrayed as vain, shallow, and self-centered.  The characters who work for the government have vaguely defined jobs that make you wonder if they have any actual value or if they are just collecting a check.  In two of the movies funniest scenes, two CIA beauracrats are discussing the major events of the movie with indifference, talking about deaths and tragedies as if they are minor inconveniences to be swept under the rug.  These scenes chillingly show the manner in which beauracracy operates primarily just to preserve itself.

This is my favorite Coen Brothers movie, and I can't recommend it enough.  This movie is incredibly underrated and has been mistakenly dismissed as being mediocre.  The brothers' brand of misanthropic comedy fits perfectly into this setting, and the result is one of the funniest movies of this decade.