With reference to the earlier reviews, and the omission of certain Daffy cartoons:

  I am concerned about political correctness serving to alter the historical record in American culture. I refer to of the suppression of the wonderful Disney Briar Rabbit cartoons (which actually exhibit the culture of resistance, wiliness against oppression, and triumph in the slave community) and the outrageous disfiguration of that tradition through its "frog" exhibition at the Disney parks. The theme park ride misunderstands the venerable oral tradition of the Africans who were brought to this continent and fails to take advantage of an opportunity to educate Americans about and understanding of the respect for African elders that underpinned these stories and how they served as an example of the resistance of Africans to their enslavement through preservation of their culture of story-telling.  I would also refer to the suppression of various cartoons in the Warner Brothers Collections which have any reference to southern life or other features of the perspectives commonly held  during the twentieth century which no longer hold sway in enlightened circles.

  There are certain segments of American society which view all things Southern in a very prejudicial and ignorant way, and dismiss the South in much the same manner as the African-American community was once denigrated.  As John B. Boles notes in his introduction to his deeply informative book, "The South is the blacks' land, too, and many of them identify with it and love it.  Properly speaking, southerner is a biracial term.  (p. x, John B. Boles, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0813101611">Black Southerners, 1619-1869 (New Perspectives on the South)</a>, (University Press of Kentucky, 1984).  Perhaps the decision-makers at Disney and Warner Brothers see this as a kind of retribution against the whites or white elites in the South, or perhaps--in Orwellian fashion-- by making these cultural artifacts inaccessible they hope to eliminate them from living memory.  But their elitist adoption of (uninformed) authority by ignoring the American cultural heritage as expressed in its popular culture serves no one.  I would recommend to anyone the informative <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0195025636">The Slave Community: Plantation Life in the Antebellum South</a> as a starting point.

A more intelligent and courageous response to these cultural artifacts which are important in documenting the normative perspectives of this period would be to make them freely available.  Their suppression will not eliminate them from memory.