Kung Fu Hustle paints, from a palette consisting of badassitry, comedy (in true Chow fashion) and nostalgic emotion, a unique, exciting, hilarious, heart-felt film that dazzles and entertains from beginning to end. The main character Sing, played by Stephen Chow (Shaolin soccer), chooses a life of crime after an experience as a child which causes him to view chivalry as a futile path trodden by the weak, and thieving and killing as the true path to success and power. Thus, he desires to be in the evil Axe Gang, and not being a member, decides to pretend he is a member of the nefarious gang. But he is not alone in his ruse, his overweight underachieving sidekick goes along with him. They enter a town and begin to pick on the inhabitants. The town is run by a landlady and her husband, and its inhabitants consist of hardworking poor residents who struggle to get by. Perhaps due to skepticism, pride, or stupidity, the town's people do not fall for or submit to Sing's threats. Sing backs off in one hilarious scene, muttering excuses for why he cannot physically take out certain of the town's inhabitants who are much more than meets the eye (no, they are not transformers). He fires of a firework, the distress call used by the actual Axe Gang, and the gang actually shows up. A huge kung fu battle ensues. Much of the rest of the film amounts to an escalating feud between the Axe Gang and the town. The kung fu becomes more awesome and unbelievable as the film progresses to a final climax which clearly took a few ideas from Neo's final battle with the Mr. Smiths in The Matrix. In other words, there is Kung Fu aplenty. The artistic ability, cinematography and special effects in the martial arts battles is very artistic and at times it is difficult to find the line between comedic excess, beauty and badassitry. That, in essence, is the most wonderful quality of this film. But there is a story here and it is quite nostalgic and beautiful as well. We see Sing quivering between the two sides, the kind-hearted town's people, and the dreaded axe gang's members, until finally he chooses good over evil. Perhaps the most beautiful moment in the film involves Sing executing a particular kung-fu move that has him flying quite high into the air. I will not spoil it for you, suffice to say that it is one of the most awesome scenes I have ever witnessed in Cinema, blending together the aforementioned qualities of comedy, badassitry, beauty and emotion and tying together the entire story quite well. It is the final kung fu scene in the film, and following that, the film wraps everything up quite nicely in a heart-felt manner and then seemingly ends where it begins. But alas, the film is not for everyone. Some may not appreciate the story, and find the whole affair silly and over-the-top. But I am not one of those people. The first time I watched this film, I immediately started it over and watched it again. It has immense replay value for me and each time you watch it you seem to catch something new, whether it be a new joke, a new thought, or a new image of beauty and artistry, this film just keeps calling me back again and again.