With George Lucas in full gear producing and co-writing his beloved "Star Wars" series, Steven Spielberg was hot off the box office trail after "Jaws" and "Close Encounters of the Third Kind."  Since the two had already been friends before their respective careers started to take flight, it was natural that the two would come together and create a film that would stand the test of time.  The two, along with veteran writer Philip Kaufman, created Indiana Jones.  Lucas was inspired by the old Saturday matinee serials of his childhood (remember those "Manhunt in the African Jungle" short films?).
What a film!  I can't think of a reason why ANYONE should dislike it.  Even if you do dislike it (and for whatever reason, you're wrong), it's something you have to see just to see!  Harrison Ford is in fine form as the archaeologist Indiana "Indy" Jones, and we have Karen Allen as a feisty love interest and John Rhys-Davies excellent in the role of Sallah.  John Williams' score should've won the Oscar in my book (it lost to Vangelis' "Chariots of Fire") as well, with its haunting themes and the infamous "Raiders March."
The action hardly ever lets up and there's the occasional humor in-between the scenes and sequences.  Who can forget the boulder that Indy runs from near the beginning of the film?  How about the swordsman who shows off and Indy ends up shooting him without a fight?  How about the final scene in which the Nazis are practically decimated and destroyed by God when they open up the Ark of the Covenant?  All of these and more have become part of pop culture that we'll never forget.
Tom Selleck had turned down the role of Indy because he was committed to Magnum, P.I., and while he is a great actor, can you NOT imagine Harrison Ford in the role?  He defined the hero with his portrayal of the globe-trotting archaeologist.  In fact, I think this film's perfect in every aspect; the screenplay by Lawrence Kasdan (co-writer of Episodes 2 and 3 of "Star Wars," and he also co-wrote and directed "Dreamcatcher"), Steven Spielberg's old fashioned directorial style, and George Lucas's grand vision (along with a great cast and John Williams's spectacular score) helped propel this movie to be one of the top films ever made.
I guess not much more can be said.  GREAT film, an american classic.  You must see this film, whatever your opinions are.  You know you have to!