This movie starts out showing us that Mcconaughey plays a smooth, tough as nails, street wise defense attorney who is as good as it gets in criminal cases.  Then it rolls into a pretty good story with a high profile case.  Don't be seduced by the flashy trailer and synopses, this movie is no such thing.  It's a very, very bad thriller that hinges on an implausible and faulty notion of the meaning of attorney client privilege.

Shall I explain?  Attorney client privilege only applies to what the client says about the case!  If a client confesses a crime or says he's going to commit one, that is not privileged, in fact it's your ethical duty as an attorney to notify the police if you believe your client is going to commit a crime, has committed one, or is going to otherwise harm himself, and no, you do not get disbarred for doing so.  It's the same thing you do as a psychiatric counselor, and no, your headshrinker wouldn't lose his license either!  The conflict of this "thriller" is that Mcconaughey's client confesses to a past crime in which a former client of Mcconaughey's is in prison for, confesses to breaking in to Mcconaughey's home, to threatening harm on Mcconaughey's family, and to having Mcconaughey's partner killed, and rather than hold its screenwriters to accurate representations of what attorneys do, they tell us that Mcconaughey's going to lose his license if he brings any of this to the police which is indeed his duty to do so.  Huh?  Did the writers actually ask an attorney what attorney client privilege means?  I guess not.

At this point of the film, it just turns to trash and I'm told the novel is the same.  Excuse me for being so critical, but I'm sure you're the same way.  You want your sports movies to accurately represent the sport your watching.  You want racing movies to accurately use car talk.  You want medical movies to plausibly show what doctors do, but why can't we have such high profile crime thrillers like this accurately show an attorney?

Mcconaughey is over all the smooth, brazen, and cool Mcconaughey we like watching, rather than the watered down one he usually is in his Rom Coms, but all that is wasted on bad writing.