This movie is worth a look only if you like crazy love triangles set in old aristocratic Europe or Helena Bonham Carter (as Kate Croy).  I really like Helena, and the movie was OK.

Linus Roache ( as Merton Densher), Alison Elliott (as Millie Theale), and Charlotte Rampling (as Aunt Maude) were all delightful in their roles, but Helena brings the film to life.  Her character is enigmatic and melancholy, but she normally exudes this aura of mystery, no matter what role she is playing.

Here, Kate Croy, is an impoverished girl of London Society, fortunate that her rich aunt Maude, has taken her in to assist her in marrying well.  Instead, she loves Merton, a dashing, intellectual, boyishly-seductive pauper, whom she is forbid to see by the aunt.

Nevertheless, an improbable triangle forms (by Kate's device) with short-term profits in mind.  It is Millie, who is targeted, by several members of this London Society for her money.  Interesting plot twists develop concerning the money throughout to the end.  Thus, the games play out and the profits are secured, possibly, but not without additional choices and costs.

There is a nude scene with Kate and Merton that may confuse purists who want to view this film as sacred among art films.  To me, the scene neither adds greatly or detracts greatly from the artistic value of this film.  I did find it a bit gratuitous initially, but in a little while you accept.  This scene forces viewers into accepting/understanding the passion of Kate and Merton's love by being so in-your-face and putting you in either role.

I believe given the same choices as Merton and Kate, most people would do the same.  The outcome basically: money can't buy love or love's relative security (knowing this person will NEVER hurt you and being able to trust them unconditionally); instead, mutual love (THIS is what we want) simply grows wherever it finds fertile ground and that ground is it's true security, regardless of wealth (mutual love is really like that, it's free and secure).  We, like they, have to choose between physical or emotional security.  Who's for going for the ground within which to grow?  And finding that priceless.

For Helena Bonham Carter, a melodramatic script, or beautiful views of Venice and London, give this movie a chance.  If not for either of these, find another movie.