I will focus most of my review on the double DVD in question. As to the film itself, I can only endorse everything said by the other reviewers, I defy anyone not to like this movie - most will love it. Just one thing, Joan Leslie deserves a special mention. As a 16-year old actress playing a 16-year old Gracie she is wonderful. Cooper was just about as big they could get when this movie was made but Leslie plays her scenes with not a trace of diffidence or self-consciousness. Black and white has many strengths, not the least of which is that it minimises the effect of studio sets. None of this movie is filmed on location, but it doesn't matter. In many ways it simply emphasises the quality of the performances. Contrast this with, for example, the wonderful Anthony Mann location work in his James Stewart westerns - for me the scenery is almost too good and diminishes the story-telling. The transfer to DVD of this movie is good, if not exceptional. It would benefit from the loving care given to the Basil Rathbone Sherlock Holmes series by the UCLA labs, for example.

So, the movie is great, what about the extras? On disk one, in addition to the main feature, there is a commentary, a couple of contemporary cartoons, and some galleries of stills. I don't like cartoons, or find stills interesting, so the commentary is all that is left. I went to sleep watching it, and switched off less than halfway through! Good commentary adds to what you see on the screen, with insightful extra information about the characters or the making of the movie. I'm afraid this, by and large, simply tells you what you are seeing. It was with some considerable feeling of anti-climax, therefore, that I inserted the second DVD. It's great! There is a feature on the making of Sergeant York that is very interesting, stimulating, and worth paying for in itself. The insights into the political background to the movie are of particular merit. This is followed by a retrospective on Cooper's career fronted by - Clint Eastwood! I must admit I was surprised at the choice of presenter; Eastwood's westerns tend to be brutal and cynical - everything that Sergeant York, and Cooper, are not. I needn't have worried, I'd forgotten that few know as much about the movie business as Clint. Remember his reaction when once asked why Oscars seemed to be eluding Spielberg? "Well, perhaps Stephen is just too successful for some people in this business". Clint puts across the material he is given on Cooper with similar honesty and affection. Another very welcome addition to this set. I will never regret buying it - nor will you.