Quite an amazing feat bringing this film to the big screen in 1976.  This, of course, was long before CGI effects began to create everything on computers -- from ships on the ocean to gigantic apes -- just to save movie makers a lot of money.

Oscar-winner Rick Baker created the design and performed the role of Kong throughout most of the film.  The hype at the time of the movie's release was that the producers built a 40-foot tall animatron (or robot) of the great ape, that had moving arms, head, eyes and mouth.  The giant robot is only featured for a total of twenty seconds in the film.  The shots of the robot are intercut with shots of the live actor during the part of the movie when Kong is in the giant cage at the Petrox publicity event.

Interestingly, the scene of the Petrox extravaganza (where Kong eventually escapes to run amok through the streets of New York) was shot on the same lot that the tribal scenes were shot back on Skull Island.

But Rick Baker is the man behind the hydraulic mechanisms in the Kong mask.  Seven separate masks were made to allow Kong different expressions.  Operators off camera operated the controls while Baker made the appropriate gestures.

Baker's fascination with primates -- primarily the gorilla -- began when he was a child.  His study of gorilla anatomy and behavior is legendary.  He created and performed the role of "Stanley the Gorilla" in Lily Tomlin's early film, "The Incredible Shrinking Woman."  He also created the gorillas in Sigourney Weaver's "Gorillas in the Mist" and the jungle apes in "Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan."  His latest foray into Hollywood ape-dom was for Tim Burton's "Planet of the Apes," where the character make-ups are nothing short of astounding.

Baker's first Oscar for special effects make-up came, I believe, with "An American Werewolf of London."  David Naughton may not have turned into a giant ape, but the transformation sequence from man to wolf was the brainchild of Rick Baker.  The effects were created LIVE on the studio stage and involved such innovative techniques as filling air bladders, pulling a lever that made the snout of a man's face protrude, and filming in reverse.  No CGI involved at all.

Turning from the icon of the film to its stars, the performance of all is exemplary.  Charles Grodin (who also shared billing with Lily Tomlin and "Stanley" in "The Incredible Shrinking Woman") is at his understated comic best as the evil oil man hiding behind the mask of "Public concern" who has dreams of making it "big" by climbing the corporate ladder.

Jeff Bridges hands in a fine performance as the liberal paleontologist who has studied the legends of the mythical beast.

Jessica Lange was roundly scorned by critics as the worst actress in a film released during the Christmas season of 1976.  The character she played, "Dwan," ("Dwan," she says to her rescuers.  "D-W-A-N.  You know, like 'Dawn,' except I switched two letters to make it more memorable") was ditzy and somewhat shallow "I'm gonna be a star!" and childlike.  She loses these qualities as she becomes more attached to Kong and fears for his life.  By the end of the film, we believe in the tears she sheds over the loss of her friend.

Lange proved critics wrong five years later by acting in an incredible remake of "The Postman Always Rings Twice" with Jack Nicholson.  A year after that, in 1982, she played the role of real life actress Frances Farmer, a starlet from the 1930s who goes from being a happy-go-lucky young teenager to a Hollywood victim who eventually undergoes a lobotomy.

Lange's performances in these two films alone cast a new light on her performance in "Kong," one in which critics finally realized that her ditzy and shallow performance was actually the product of great acting.

Belated apologies were granted in the form of a "Best Supporting Actress" Oscar for playing opposite Dustin Hoffman in 1982's "Tootsie."  Certainly, her peers awarded her the prize, not for her rather phone-it-in performance in "Tootsie," but for the work she did in "Postman" and "Frances."

The DVD version of "King Kong" is terrific.  The video's aspect ratio is 2.35:1 and clearly shows the grain in the filmstock used.  The audio has been mixed to 5.1 from its original 2.0.