What a season! Normally shows lose their peak after their first season turns out to be a success. But for Xena, her second season adventures turned out better than I expected.

Visually the image quality of the DVD is sharper than in the first season, though it is still shot on a 16mm film stock and is a bit grainy. The CGI effects (matte paintings and 3d animation) are much better than in the first season. One of the few 3D animations I liked were the ones involving Poseidon whom I found impressive and staggering on a large screen. Now of course those visuals pale compared to what we can do today, especially in Spartacus. But for the short amount of time and other constraints the Xena crew had for their work, the Flat Earth studio produced some great CGI. Hope that they get to improve them as the seasons go on.

The location sets meanwhile are more gorgeous and diverse than in the first season. For instance, we now have some Xena episodes on the sea, which means great battles on large vessels, and other great battles shot on gorgeous New Zealand beaches.

As for the soundtrack, Jodeph LoduCa composed some excellent music. One of my favourite was the one between Xena and Solan at the end of the first episode, whihc really moved me, and the Joxer the Mighty song which Ted Raimi wrote the lyrics.

In its storylines, the season presented many episodes that either veered on comedy, or on drama, or mixed those two genres together to deliver very touching stories. Among my favourite episodes were the episode 1 (Solan and Xena's first episode, along with a very moving discussion at the end), episode 2 (A life with Xena's brother), episode 4 (Excellent Halloween episode, great use of the camera effects, and Gabrielle's scene at the dance), episode 6 (Meg, Joxer, and Xena with a Capital Z), episode 7 (scary intro filled with tense camera effects), episode 8 (excellent Hudson Leick and Kevin Smith, in an episode done while Lucy Lawless was recovering from a horrible accident), episode 10 (Great episode occuring in the 1940 that revealed what happened to the descendants of the main characters in our time period), episode 12 (Robert Tapert direction and Xena's struggles), episode 15 (felt like a documentary about Xena's day, lots of hand-held camera, and great direction by Michael Hurst), episode 16 (Joxer the Mighty in action), episode 19, (Xena's relationship with Ulysses), episode 20 (a side of Xena is revealed to Gabrielle), episode 21 (Xena and gabrielle help Cecrops the lost Mariner) and episode 22 (Very funny love stories!!!).

There were so many episodes that I loved during this season that I think this dvd set will be one I will love to rewatch over and over again. Though I have to point out that watching the Hercules series can be useful if you wonder how Callisto got stuck in that temple in the fourteenth episode.

See you next season!