Many of the above reviews concern the film itself - I have nothing to add, really about the picture. Of course it's a classic, and tremendous fun to watch. The mixture of wit, gentle sentimentality, and goosepimples has never been matched. I just thought some of you might be curious about the new disc, which I took a look at last night. I didn't view the film with commentary because I find Bruce Eder to be one of the most annoying critics of all time (listen to a minute or two of his commentary for the Criterion "Lady Vanishes" and I think you may agree with me). The interactive essay on Herrmann's astonishing score is a must, as is Alec Baldwin's reading of the original Benet story. This delightful performance makes the perfect curtain raiser for the film, and allows you to get an idea of how fine an adaptation the film really is - the kind of fable that the story is may in fact be the trickiest kind of story to adapt for the screen. Now - the heart of the matter: the transfer, and the issues involved. I fully expect that people will carp about the quality of image and sound on this release,
and they will be justified in so doing, but they should be informed as to why Criterion's source material is less than ideal. The transfer itself is fine. The trouble is that a complete negative of the 1941 release version is, I believe, no longer extant. For a complete version, they have thus had to generate dupe negative from prints for much of it. Every kind of film artifact we have been spoiled into no longer expecting is present: emulsion scratches, scratches on the negative being printed positive, splices, reel change marks, and heavy, heavy optical hiss and crackle (which unfortunately muffles the dialogue at times, and renders many of the softer passages of the score almost inaudible.) A shame, because this is the same sound department, lab, and effects department out of which "Citizen Kane" came the same year. The effects, sound, trick work - hell, everything - in Dieterle's film is just as strikingly imaginative as in Welles', and it is a shame that we cannot see the quality of the work under optimal conditions, as we now can with the Warner disc of "Kane". However, this state of affairs is in no way due to Criterion, but whichever bozo hacked up the negative for the 1952 theatrical re-release. (Whomever that person is, I am sure they are now resting uncomfortably in Mr. Scratch's collection box). By no means miss
this film, however, despite my caveat emptor: it is one of the most enjoyable ever made.