I first watched this move in 1984 at age of 12, and the comedy elements to this movie were lost on me at the time - it genuinely terrified me to the point of hiding behind pillows. Now after viewing it again 20 years I managed to watch the whole thing. The movie has aged very well and well worth watching. It is still very scary throughout and also will make you laugh out loud.

Plot wise, it is an old fashioned horror move updated to modern times (well updated to the early 1980s !). Its about 2 young guys who get lost on the Yorkshire moors, they stumble into an old English Pub full of suspicious locals who obviously have something to hide. Eventually feeling unwelcome our heroes leave the pub and end up walking across the moor when they hear a wolf howling. Needless to say the wolf attacks and one of the heroes ends up in London where he ultimately learns (and accepts) he is a werewolf.

Some of the special effects are unfortunately a little dated. In particular we only really see parts of the wolf at a time and when we do it more resembles a grey over size sheep than a giant werewolf. No doubt, if done today on a big budget we would have full close ups on a computer generated wolf will a full set of wolfish facial expressions. Nonetheless the transformation scene is very well done, possible the best ever done in the history of werewolf movies - both from a special effect and an acting perspective. All the actor needs to do is scream as one would when becoming a wolf, but he does this well !

The extras on the DVD are well worth watching. The actor's commentary is okay but the interview with John Landis on the themes and inspiration for him making the movie is brilliant and worth the 20 minutes - but watch it after the movie. The interview seems to have been taken 20 or so years after the film and it is interesting to see his pride and still apparent enthusiasm for this move and the genre. He describes a cool story from Yugoslavia which triggered the story as well as going into the background of a few scenes.

While there are laughs, the final movie is pretty gloomy - all werewolves are ultimately doomed (there is nothing that can be done) and our hero is no exception. But the final scene of chaos around Piccadilly Circus is more slapstick that scary.