THE BODY SNATCHER---(1945)---(directed by Robert Wise)---Boris Karloff, Henry Daniell, Bela Lugosi, Edith Atwater, Rita Corday, Russell Wad, Sharyn Moffett.
One of the nine "horror" films produced at RKO in the early to mid-40's by Val Lewton, widely acknowledged as the "Father of the Psychological Horror Film". Lewton's guiding principle was that the thing that we fear the most is the, "unknown". Hitchcock's, PSYCHO, owes much to Lewton's approach to making a "horror" movie. The script is based on a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson. Boris Karloff stars as the title character, a grave-robber who provides cadavers for a doctor(Daniell) who runs a medical school. When the supply of corpses who have died natural deaths begins to run low, Karloff resorts to murder. One particularly effective example of Lewton's approach to making this type of film has to do with Karloff's murder of a young, blind "street singer". We see her walking down a deserted street, closely followed by Karloff in his horse drawn cart---they disappear into the dark--- a few seconds later, the girl's singing suddenly ceases---in the next scene, we see Karloff delivering the body to Daniell's medical school---it's creepy. As the film unfolds, we learn that Karloff and Daniell have a lengthy personal history and that Daniell is morally conflicted about having to deal with a, "crawling graveyard rat", like Karloff. We learn that Karloff was born poor and has had to, "bow and scrape", to the more affluent all his life. He enjoys the power he has to "ruin" an upper-class individual like Daniell, if he so chooses. This is one of three films that Karloff made with Lewton(the other two were: BEDLAM and ISLE OF THE DEAD), and he gives a nicely nuanced performance---one of his best(IMO)---we are, by turns, repelled by his character and sympathetic to him. Lugosi has a very small role as Daniell's assistant who makes the mistake of trying to blackmail Karloff---it was the last film in which Karloff and Lugosi appeared together. Predictably, the conflict between Karloff and Daniell provides the climax of the film. IMO, this is one of the best of the films that comprise the, "Val Lewton cycle"---I recommend this film to fans of "psychological horror" movies. All nine Lewton films are available in a reasonably priced box set, with an additional hour long documentary on Lewton's career---a worthy addition to any film library.