There are plenty of problem-child films.  I had low expectations -- that we would get the usual check list of problems, causes and events.  Slam them in and crank out a movie.  I do not know Hilary Duff's work; I have heard the name.  I can say she has done a convincing job.  I  can assert that the casting in general is strong.

Gretta the troubled child is put on a bus by her mother because mom is trying to stop her current husband from exiting.  Gretta is an annoyance, and bloody adept at it. She is going to Ocean Grove, New Jersey, an idyllic ocean-front resort where Gretta's grandparents have lived since mom was a brat.  Ocean Grove is one of the beautifully built ocean fronts in the world.  Large houses where porches and upper story balconies are prized far above a lawn, to gaze on the Atlantic and breathe oh so well.

The central theme is teen suicide.  There are others.  The songs are a dead, so to speak, give away,  The opening "I Wanna Die" might trigger the theme, but of course it is a lovely song about wishing to die in Louisiana, rather than, say, Burma. The sound track in general is thoughtfully chosen and effective in this well executed not in-your-face mode.  Nice touch with this song.  Another is a classic 50's summer seaside song, "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea" by heart throb Frankie Avalon.

I like how the grandmother (Ellen Burstyn is better than in so many anguish-only roles), and grandfather are fully developed characters.  Evan Ross is superb as the romantic interest and, more importantly, the foil to Gretta's background.  He almost steals the show, but I am happy with both.  We will be seeing more of him.

With all of the story, there is still a little to see of careful film making.  In Grandfather's marina, do not miss the long shot of the dog paddling among the slips; he fetches what otherwise looks like merely another floating board.  Nice touch, this.  Next you will see his project: restoring a mahogany cabin cruiser.  These are the glories of our 1890-1940 boat industry.  This boat deserves to be the platform of the movie's climax.

All themes are intelligently expressed, especially the hard ones.  I have only one nagging question, which is "Who am the guy in the photo at the very end?"  I know his face and I am having a brain-out.  Lastly, the movie has the good grace to close with an Oscar Wilde quote.