I have no problem with the documentary showing only one side of the conflict because I doubt the filmmakers would have survived for 10 minutes in that valley without a bunch of armed men around and helicopters circling above, drones above the helicopters and little satellites keeping track of it all.

This is the story of soldiers sent to kill 'the bad guys' in a country some 50 thousand miles away from the nearest US border crossing. It's a place where people are skinny, the old guys are painting their beards red and I'm sure they couldn't care less where the USA was on the map or in real life. So these soldiers volunteer to 'serve' - go to foreign countries and brutalize the locals so that maybe some of them would get mad and strike back at us so that we would now have a pretext to send more of our freedom loving troops to brutalize them some more. Once they volunteer they are practically slaves of the militaristic-surveillance-police state. They must do what they are told, including deploying to countries 50 thousand miles away from the nearest US border crossing and, as ordered, brutalize and humiliate the locals, maybe kill some and cut off their ears for souvenirs, pee on their corpses, burn their mothers wives and daughters... you know... the usual.

So... when some of the locals can't take it no more and manage to eliminate one of our good guys... Ahhh... the humanity... Ohhhh... the psychodrama. It's a tragedy, I'm telling ya. And where's the gratitude. After all, we are risking our lives searching their houses, frightening their children, killing their precious cows and you couldn't see a smile on their faces. Only fear, hatred, loathing or anger.

In the end, the mission to deliver freedom and liberties to the locals fails. They manage to kill 50 of ours, we bomb the bejesus out of their mud huts and maybe kill a couple of hundred and our boys get to go home. I'm trying to imagine how it would feel like if the Chinese liberation army came to deliver some freedoms to us and they were dealing with our elders while our able-bodied husbands and sons were forced to hide in national parks and state forests.

By the way, today's 'bad guys' in Afghanistan used to be called 'heroic' and 'freedom fighters' by no other than Prez. Ronald Reagan. The so called Northern Alliance, the guys who collaborate with us these days were the ones who used to collaborate with the evil Russian occupiers way back then. Go figure.