Don't be fooled by the title - this show is much more than your typical mahou shoujo (magical girl) anime.

Princess Tutu is an original story utilizing elements of traditional fairy tales and presented in the theatrical style of classical ballet (with an excellent score of classical music to match).  The story revolves around four students at the Kinkan (Gold Crown) Town ballet academy as they struggle to enact or refuse their fate at the hands of the sadistic storyteller, Drosselmeyer, all set against the backdrop of an epic battle between "the prince" and "the raven".  The tale waxes philosophical when the characters become aware of their identity as characters within a story, giving rise to questions of self-determination and reality.  The pace never lags, and the dark drama is balanced by just enough light moments of anime humor and fairy tale whimsy.  Stylistically, this series shines with its focused art direction and storytelling as well as its careful characterizations.

Princess Tutu is a beautiful artistic production and I highly recommended it for all fans of anime, fairy tales, ballet, theater, classical music, and well-crafted stories.  It is truly one of the most beautifully realized and inspired animes I have seen.

ABOUT THE PRODUCT

I own the Princess Tutu: Complete Collection (cover featuring Rue/Princess Kraehe).  Amazingly, after seeing it listed as "out of stock" on every DVD website, I recently found this product in store for $34.99 at Fry's Electronics.

The 6 DVDs come in a large plastic DVD case with two plastic flaps inside, rather than the typical decorated cardboard slip + folding case.  Both English and Japanese audio are available, and all episodes, TV specials, commentary and special features are included.  Good deal :)  I particularly like the Etudes summarizing the ballet themes of each episode, as well as "Ballet for Beginners" which describes a few common ballet moves.  There's a text only special on disc 5 called "The Path to Tutu" briefly describing the evolution of the show from Ikuko Itoh's initial idea.  Some of the commentary is fairly interesting/entertaining as well, although only one or two episodes out of 5 have commentary - the voice actors and staff pair up to do these on a rotating basis.  I also got a kick out of out-takes by Fakir's English voice actor (Chris Patton) and "Kra-hey-hey" (Kraehe).