Hi, before I start I would just like to let everyone know that I am a 19 year old female. And the reason I feel to share that is because now a days it seems that being my age allows you to be spoiled by the standards for horror filming today. I just want to let everyone know that while I may be spoiled to it, I can also enjoy a classic such as Friday The 13th and not be biased.

I have been watching the Friday the 13th series since I can remember, but I never watched it on tape, I only saw it on TV. And while every Friday the 13th is cut in some way, it's severely cut on tv. I was very surprised to watch it on dvd, for the first time, simply because it was like I was watching it for the first time. There had been scenes that I didn't know existed, because I was limited to what they show on TV.

I have the box set, and if I were to rate that ..I'd give it a very poor 2 - 3 stars, simply because I feel that the Friday the 13th series deserves better than what it's recieved in the box set. But the movies alone, I adore.

I love the feeling of being scared, I love the feeling of thinking that something can really happen. I love the fact that I, only in my opinion, am terrified of this series and some others like it. I don't have to have A+ ratings in graphics to be scared. I just need some killings, and jump out of your seat thrills. And I think for the most part, almost all of these movies gives you that.

For the longest time I didn't like this particular part, because I was like every other juvenile teenager ..I loved Jason, and since Jason wasn't in it, I didn't care for it. Well, it's recently been played on AMC back to back, and I sat down and actually watched it ...and I loved it. I love it even more that i've actually seen the R version of the movie. Jason Voorhees doesn't have to be in this, because I feel that his mother doing the killings is probably more scarier than anything, because that's something that could actually happen.

Storyline (Not exactly in order, but the way I feel best describing) -- (Possible Spoilers)

When you sit down to watch this, you know that you're sitting down to a horror movie. But the way it comes on, dead of night, serene water, clear blue moon ..and kids sleeping silently in the cabin, you for one second feel that you could possibly be watching a family movie. Teenager counselors are singing cheesy sing a long songs ..and you feel a sense of peace.

That is ..until your hip to the two horn dogs, who clearly can not keep their eyes off of each other. The song finishes, and off they go to explore each other. I'm not entirely mad that they got killed off ..there's kids in the other cabin ..I think you should wait until you're alone, alone. That was there fault, and they get knocked off. The person was so free of mercy, that you'd never think that it was who it was doing the killings.

So, you're fully into the movie at this point ..just waiting to see who gets kicked off this time. And we zoom into this pretty, innocent, friendly looking girl named Annie. For a few seconds if not more, you would assume that she was the one who would last to the ending credits. She pets a homeless looking dog, which I love (I love animals), and goes on about her way.

She stops into this little diner, and asks for assistance to Camp Crystal Lake. Where she recieves curious, yet knowing glances that she notices, but seems to ignores. They do a little chit chat, someone calls it camp blood, no biggie, and a truck driver offers her a ride atleast have way there.

Also on there way to the serene lake is Jack, Marcie, and the ever funny Ned. They have a little fun conversation on the way ..that's what I love about this movie ..the parts that would seem slow in most movies, just flows on beautifully, I feel. I was never bored in watching the scenes where they interact with each other, I felt it put a little more depth into the movie.

Allison -- Upon seeing her ..At first I don't see her as the person that would last. I'd give that credit to Brenda ..but I guess in a sense she's more dependant than most of the girls there. After everyone arrives (excluding Annie), you get to see Steve and Allison talking ..and for a moment you feel a bit of a connection with the two that's never really touched on. I feel more feelings on his part than hers. I would've really loved to know the reason why she needed to get home, or why she didn't want to stay, but they didn't touch on that either.

Bill, is one of my favorite characters ..he's just a very nice guy, and not annoying or anything, I really felt that he would've survived to, or at least I would've rooted him on. I would've also liked to see some feelings between him and Allison.

Annie gets dropped off by the Truck Driver after contridicting herself some ..and walks on just to get picked up by another person. Which by the look on Annie's face ..seems to be someone friendly. But who's to say ...

Annie talks to the driver, but the driver never answers her ..or says anything at all. Not even a little grunt to let you know they're still alive, lolol. They just drives, and seems irritated, because they end up driving a lot faster than they were doing. They end up missing the turn to Camp Crystal Lake ..I guess by now Annie seems suspicious, since her cries for them to stop or surpassed. She looks frightened, still begging to be dropped off ..she ends up jumping out of the car.

Now she could've easily, easily ran off ..if she hadn't hurt her poor ankle. So she has to limp ..and that seems to be somewhat dangerous, seeing as what we now know is the killer back tracks and comes after her. She gives a good run for a minute ..and I guess you can figure out what happens next ..

So, back at the cabins, they're all getting settled in ..and Steve goes out to do some "Errands" Which I feel that the diner he was sitting at later that night, was probably where he was the entire time, lol. They all give each other a break and cool off in the pool ..where Ned acts like a jackass and Brenda thinks she sees someone in forest ..but of course shrugs it off.

............

Fast forwarding to the near end ..you can guess that most of the cast gets killed off, so you don't need me to explain that ..but when meeting the killer ..Mrs. Voorhees, it seems like the woman next door, baking brownies and cookies for Fund Raisers.

But she also seems like a woman that would love her child unconditionally ..and losing your only child must be kind of rough ..so in the psychological point of view you can kind of see where she's coming from.

When she jumps out of the jeep to "rescue" Allison ..you're thinking all is well ..everything's great ..Allison's gonna get out alive and she has this nice woman to think. Until she starts talking rubbish about not being afraid ..when any SANE person would've high tailed it out once they found out that "they're all dead".

She goes on some type of trippy flash back trip ..and you can see the demonic glare in her eyes ..from then on you know this woman is loopy, and Allison feels it too. Then she starts talking to ..her dead son ..and you realize that Allison better get out of there.

The fight between the two is realistic ..Allison held up her own, and she's a strong girl so you can believe that. I guess in that sense, I couldn't see Brenda holding up in this scene. The End is near ..finally, for Allison after the final strike, she is at peace ..she takes a canoe ..and moves out onto the lake.

Then before you know it ..birds are singing, the crisp, bright, sun is shining down ..the police men are out ..and it's finally over. She sits up ..and then out of nowhere young Jason jumps out and attacks her.

I don't know if that was a dream ..or if it was suppose to be real, I can never be sure. But you instantly knew that there was some type of sequel ahead. It left room for one, so you were expecting it.

All in all ..I love this movie. I love it for the thrills ..for the killings ..even for the dialogue and acting. Was it Oscar winning performances? No. But that's what I like about it ..it's not big actors and actresses taht you know of. It seems like someone was there filming everything happen. It's like it's real. The acting was that of a real person, and that makes it more appealing, in the sense that you're there, these are real people, and this is happening.

To judge this movie on it's acting ..would be idiotic, because that's not what they made it for ..the reason I think that made it for ..it does REALLY good in that area.

If you're just going to watch this to compare it to Halloween that's gonna be a waste ..I love Halloween too, but I don't see some of the similiarites that other people claim to see in it ..watch it, just to watch it ..not to compare it to other movies like it.

:-)