Summary
 A hefty paycheck entices 26 men to partake in psychological prison experiment where participants will either play the role of a prisoner or a guard. What starts out as simple role playing in a fictitious world quickly evolves into a hellish real life scenario as the participants realize that they are entirely on their own. If that story line doesn't hook you, then this movie is definitely not for you.

What to expect
 So the movie is very pretty dark, and quite disturbing. It opens with a brilliant (but haunting) compilation of animalistic behaviour that's very hard to watch. There's one more combination of disturbing imagery (each subject is first tested to their psychological reaction to extreme violence - which is a video we the viewer also get to see. Those are the only two parts that will make your skin crawl, keeping in the mind that the rest of the movie still holds a depressing, disturbing and haunting atmosphere.

Why this movie is awesome
 The atmosphere. They absolutely nailed the dark atmosphere. Everything about this movie frustrates, and bothers it's viewer. From the irrational injustices that occur, to the indifference of the conductors as they director reminds you that every disturbing action is being watched through set up cameras. There is only minor character development, but this actually ends up being the perfect amount. Extraordinary behaviors of unique individuals are explained by the use of flashbacks of the eligibility interviews for the experiment. This was really a cool idea because the viewer is also unable to leave once the experiment has started (all stories prior to this, are introduced earlier, or dismissed).

 Personally, I love the examination of the human condition, so this style of experiment is incredible interesting to me; ordinary people put into an out of the ordinary situation. Even though the film has top notch acting, with a strong the story line, and ingenious directing, the movie loses it's 5 star rating because the experiment conducted in the movie is somewhat flawed. Instead of putting 26 level headed people into this experiment, they put a few abnormal people into the mix, and gave them the roles of guards. And unfortunately, the extreme circumstances of the movie are entirely caused by those who were unstable to begin with. What I would like to know is if all 26 participants were reasonable people, if the same results would inevitably carry out?

 Other then that though, it's a 5 star movie. Really well made, with everything from great dialogue to brilliant camera shots, huge kudos to the director, I just wish the experiment could have been played out with more balanced characters.