I am a grown man and I still get a little choked up when I watch this movie.  It is animated film the way they should be done but seldom are in this digital age. It has all the necessary ingredients for an animated classic, good animation, a classic story, and beautiful, even haunting music.

The animation looks hand drawn, though at least some digital techniques were used, particularly in the very dynamic action sequences.  But it works.  Some scenes look almost cinematic in their detail.  The filmmakers mimic live action photography very well. Look for the artificial sun glaring on the camera lens that does not exist.

As for the story, well a story that has been around for three thousand years will certainly stand the test of time.  If you are familiar with the Exodus story from the Bible then you may notice that significant license was taken when translating it to film, a fact the filmmakers acknowledge from the opening.  Nonetheless story is powerful and poignant. The characters are portrayed realistically, complete with inner conflict and the uncertainties that plague us all. Even the traditionally evil pharaoh is not truly evil.  He has a motivation to act the way he does.

For those who may not know what type of film this is I issue a warning.  This is a musical in a very traditional sense. If you don't like musicals you may not like this movie.  Having said that however, I found the songs to be catchy and the lyrics to be poetic. Particularly touching was the song of Jethro, well performed by Danny Glover, and the Exodus sequence, which is the one that gets me every time.

The film does have a few sequences that may be frightening to very young children, particularly the final plague inflicted on Egypt.  They are not so intense as to make one keep the kids from watching but may warrant a little parental explanation, so watch the movie with them.

The DVD also has some extras that the adults might find interesting, good commentary and some "making of" features.  I found the multilanguage presentation of the song "When you believe" fascinating.  In it the exodus sequence is replayed while the seamlessly dubbed voices shift between many of the languages in which the film was released.

I need not say much more. As of this time almost three hundred reviews have already been written on this film.  Read them and you will get some different perspectives.