I have been a fan of this movie ever since the early 80s.  Not for the story, which I have to admit is not too good, but for the visuals.  I first saw it in '83 or '84 on VHS and fell in love!  I was an aspiring, teenage computer programmer at the time, and this movie showed me a world of technology that was beyond my dreams.
I bought the older DVD a couple years ago, before I even had a player.  It was not available in VHS.  I was afraid it was going to go out of print (I was sure wrong about that).
I got the 20th Anniversary edition a week ago, put in the Extras disc and was blown away right off the bat!  There's an intro. to the DVD that runs through the real-world-to-computer-world transition, but it's not just a clip from the movie.  The computer world was computer generated just for this DVD release, and it looks wonderful!  The 3D menus on the Extras disc are like little Tron movies in and of themselves!  Each time you pick an item off the main menu, you are taken (zoomed in) to a different part of the Tron world, where different things start happening, and then the submenu appears.  A real treat!
I spent hours going through the extras.  There is so much!  The 1-1/2 hour "Making Of Tron" documentary/interview with the creators and actors is great!  It was made very recently, since someone makes reference to "the XBox" from Microsoft.  It shows interviews with all of the creators and most of the main actors, at their current age.  The ones I recall seeing were Jeff Bridges, Bruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan, Dan Shor, and Barnard Hughes.  The exceptions I noticed were David Warner (who played Dillinger/Sark), and Peter Jurasik who had a brief role as "Crom."  Remember, he's the guy who plays against Flynn in the Ring game.  They don't appear in the interviews.
I was happy to see that many of the extras I had heard existed on the LaserDisc edition (now out of print) were brought over, including the in-film audio commentary by the creators of Tron.
On the movie disc, there is also a 3D computer generated intro. that's very neat (think ring game combined with Tron in the I/O tower), though not as engaging as the one on the Extras disc.  The movie itself plays just fine on my Toshiba SD1700 DVD player, no pauses or quirks (though the back cover of the disc does warn about possible pauses due to the dual-layer print).  The picture is crystal clear and the colors are vivid.  The sound is great as well, THX Certified.
All in all, I am SO glad I got this edition.  Looking at the work that went into it, I can't help but think that a group of Tron fans at Disney made it.  It made me fall in love with the movie all over again.
If you loved Tron, you will love (and I mean luuuuv!) this DVD.  THANK YOU DISNEY!  It is MUCH better than the older 1998 DVD release, whose only extras were the theater trailer, and the French and Spanish language versions of the movie.