I read some of the other reviews in which the movie wasn't well liked. Personally though I love the Stones. I'm a Gen-Xer so I grew up with parents and their friends listening to the Stones and the like. Anyhow, the movie starts out with a foreshadowing to Brian Jones' death at his home in Cheltenham, England. Then Frank Thorogood is brought in as a builder for Brian Jones' mansion and the sinister mind games begin. The movie then goes back a few months to tell the story which is Brian Jones: the sex, drugs, the women... everything that is the glitz and glam of huge fame rock and roll. The actual Rolling Stones, as hinted on in other reviews, is definetly not presented in this movie. The film is about primarily Brian Jones and his love of women and wine. I love the Morocco scene with the rest of the Stones. It's so free and cool, except for one part when Brian beats his girlfriend Anita. Okay, so they get back to England then Brian's girlfriend leaves him so she becomes Keith's girlfriend then. So then Brian gets kicked out of the Stones in the next breath.

The film also portrays Brian's early love for music from early on in his life, even high school. He came from a fairly well off family. Now I'll jump back to the end of the movie to the mind games with the builder, Frank. The movie focuses a huge amount of time on this relationship and can drag a bit but some of it is funny with, for example, the "Sunday afternoon" song. All of the unpaid builders, including Frank are hanging outside while Brian's having a great time inside with Anna. Jefferson Airplane's "White Rabbit" is used in contrast to show Brian's demise with Anita: the drugs and parties, etc.. At the end of Brian's life, he had a live-in girlfriend, Anna Wohlin, from a Swedish dance troupe. She stayed with him until his drowning, at the end of the movie, and this is a true life fact. Anna wrote a book on Brian's death called, "The Murder of Brian Jones."

Finally, the style of the film is very indy. The music is not very rolling stones. I did like the scene in the empty pool with Brian and Frank at the mansion where Brian plays his organ and really jams out but Frank's all awkward with the tambourine...kinda funny stuff. Basically the overall music is an original score. It's alright.

Here's an aside: I love the clothes! The characters who play the Stones are good. I thought that they did a good job.

"The Stones no longer play my brand of rock and roll..."  Brian Jones loved the blues.