Few people are aware of the "story behind the story" of The Dark Crystal! It was written by a (former?) Catholic priest to represent his belief about the true story of God's Creation from the very beginning to the end of time -BUT from the approach that our God is "unconditionally" loving rather than One with brutally vengeful hell-fire and brimstone. (I know...this not the way I learned the story in my Christian upbringing either, but this author's story of "what life is all about" rings so much more true to me now).

This priest/author went to the Muppets genius, Jim Henson, to produce the characters because he felt that human actors would not be able to portray all of beings that are storied in religions. Perhaps too, this inspired priest/author wanted a humble, low budget, but effective way of telling the world's most important story.

In case you're wondering, I read about this film's background stuff in an interview that was done with the author a couple years after this film came out. He said that both he and Henson had expected the film to be a blockbuster. However, the film's message went right over the heads of most viewers...perhaps the message was presented too abstractly. Subsequently -and unfortunately- The Dark Crystal has been relegated to "The Creepy Children's Stories" bin. Sad, because I think it is a work of genius. I'm not alone in this belief because I've met three very intellectual deep-thinkers who say they have watched it 7, 13, and 23 times repectively -each time learning something new!

The film is packed with many SEEMINGLY casual images (mountains in the background, etc.) -which actually represent important places and events in Christianity, Buddhism, Islam -even Buddhism. The more of a religious scholar one is, the more symbols he/she is likely to recognize. The Dark Crystal has very memorable and powerfully interesting characters who represent many of Christianity's/Islam's/Judism's important figures. It's fun to try to figure out the meanings of the various events in the film and WHO it is that each of the Dark Crystal's characters represent.

Everything means something in this film! And the ending! To me, the ending in The Dark Crystal rings totally true of what an UNCONDITIONALLY loving God would have in store for all of His created children -us humans and the Angels that came before us.

Okay, now you have the author's perspective. Kids can still enjoy The Dark Crystal as simply "some fun characters' exciting adventure." However, I invite you to watch this film with God's Creation in mind...and see if you still think it's nothing more than a kiddie flick! The Dark Crystal not only worthy of being the blockbuster that the author thought it would be, but I think it's a profound and inspired film. It's great for interesting discussion after watching. Check it out!