This film one-ups the relentless verbal crudity and testosterone-fueled raunchiness and bone-crunching violence of the legendary movie "Slap Shot," combining it with the dry wit and doltish characters you may know from SCTV's "Great White North" sketches. Based on a memoir by ice hockey player Doug Smith, it mixes in broad jokes about beer and women and Russians and Qu&eacute;b&eacute;cois to make something quintessentially Canadian, yet it's also accessible to those of us who did not grow up with Molson running through our veins and visions of the Stanley Cup haunting our dreams.

"Goon" features an excellent Canadian cast led by a winning Seann William Scott, best known for his role as Steve Stifler in the "American Pie" films. Scott plays bouncer Doug Glatt, a sweet-natured, dim-witted man-child who just happens to be very good at beating the crap out of people. After a fracas at a hockey game leads a local team to hire him, his thuggish efficiency on the ice gets him promoted to a minor-league club, the Halifax Highlanders. Coach Ronnie Hortense (Kim Coates) assigns him the task of protecting the team's high-scorer, Xavier Laflamme (Marc-Andre Grondin), a former prodigy now less interested in hockey than he is in cocaine and strippers.

Eugene Levy (also in "American Pie") is Doug's father, a doctor ashamed of his son's job as a hockey enforcer; Jay Baruchel (one of the screenwriters) is Doug's friend Pat, a rabid fan who hosts an amateurish cable program devoted to the sport; Alison Pill (Baruchel's real-life fianc&eacute;e) is Doug's crush Eva, a "puck bunny" with a thing for hockey players; and Liev Shreiber (the only major star in the film) is renowned enforcer Ross "The Boss" Rhea, who becomes Doug's nemesis in the arena.

Since it's a comedy, "Goon" gives us a happy-if-cockeyed ending in which Doug gets the girl and his underdog team wins redemption in the final showdown. But that's not really the point: this is an over-the-top love letter to the rough-and-tumble culture of hockey and of Canada itself, as well as an excuse for boys being boys, with all of the aggressive idiocy, drunken profanity, and bloody brutality that involves. Entertaining stuff. I recommend it.