Well, unfortunately this was a disappointment. It may be popular to folks that follow, mesmerized by Mr. Andy Lau, Hong Kong Superstar, but this movie was terribly terribly pieced together. I wonder whether the production crew/director was in such awe of Mr. Andy Lau, that they were afraid to tell him the truth.

I knew this was going to be a so-so movie with the opening scene, which even now I wonder what it was all about. IMHO, the opening scene should of drawn you into the picture and made you want to see more, not make you scratch your head as to what was that all about. Granted there are a few moments in the movie in some of the scene that were shot okay but for the most part, it was dark and dimmly lit, sort of far away and as if the director was limited to just one camera to shoot each scene of the movie. There was no real close up shots or switching angles from a second camera. There was no real development of the characters and the situations.

I laughed so hard as it was so predictable, when you watched Fan Bing Bing character, go from all covered up in a sort of over-sized for her, full military uniform outfit in the beginning of the movie to eventually the scene where she is trying to seduce Mr. Andy Lau, and she has progressively in the movie, less clothing attire and gets more prettier as she is then portrayed more feminine.

I'm a fan of big battlefield type movies, but this movie just doesn't make you feel like its a big army of men. Felt more like a low budget field of folks with the cinematography of far away. This was similar problem with the Ang Lee version of "the Hulk" (aka watching a movie from a distance...).

Overall the movie is like a big miss mosh of scenes that were shot and pieced together incoherently, it could of been done better and more intense. The title of the movie is "Battle of the Warriors" but which warriors?

The bonus portion shows interview with Mr. Andy Lau, and another was of the Director with clips of production etc. You know this film is in trouble where you see Mr. Andy Lau in the bonus portion, and you look at the expression of his face that even he was disappointed in the movie but his words need to speak otherwise. I'll go with the body language.

To top that off, here you have the Director also stating this was his first big production and that there were many accidents during production, folks getting hurt and even a fire on the set that he didn't expect the fire trucks to be out on another call? What does that tell you about the movie? These commentaries ran very long that I ended it before it finished. Next you hear Mr. Andy Lau explains that the director has a unique style of shooting movies, (i.e from beginning to end). IMHO that give you a clue that the director is inexperienced and it shows in this movie. Sorry, alot of folks rated this 4 or 5 stars, but for me its only 2 stars. There are much better battlefield movies out there...