Some of the negative reviewers who are revolted by Travolta's fat-suit and the seriousness of segregation during the 60s, among other things - these people need to lighten up. 'Hairspray', like 'Grease', was created to entertain, not necessarily to remind us of the bloody 60s. If we DO come away being reminded of segregation during the terrible 60s (not to mention Vietnam, Nixon, Johnson, the murders of the Kennedys, etc.), this film wisely keeps to the silliness of hairstyles and fashions and falling in love, touching only briefly on the idiots who were responsible for segregation (much like Lucas' 'American Graffiti' did). The musical numbers are fantastic, the performers are outstanding and perfect for their roles, and the dancing is wonderful to watch. I had to see the film twice because this movie made my heart sing (considering all the dreck we have to put up with in today's society) and it opened up my mind just a little more. I mean, why can't we ALL sing on a bus, on the sidewalk, in the classroom??? 'Hairspray' is clearly the most cheerful movie I have seen in a long, long time. As for Travolta dressed in a fat suit, the actor is clearly having a good time, and it shows. I don't know how good the other actors are (Divine and Harvey) as Edna, but there isn't any reason to compare performances. Travolta fits into the movie perfectly. He's contagious and you want to join in. Queen Lativah's singing performance dares you to get up there on the screen and march right along beside her, proud to be by her side. The singing, the dancing, the bubbly energy is completely contagious and you never want the movie to end. I don't know what the director did with his cast, but it worked. And when I left the theatre I had a smile on my face. I can't wait to see 'Hairspray' again, and I will recommend it to my friends and my family. In a summer filled with lame-brained excuses for movies, 'Hairspray' reminds us all that, once in a while a movie comes along and will wildly sweep us off our feet. You WILL be singing and dancing wherever you are when you leave that theatre. And don't be embarrassed when people are staring at you suspiciously. Hey, do what your heart tells you to do. You'll be happier. That I can guarantee.