What should I start with? Well, it's really good piece of anime. It tells us a story of six characters, joined together by fate. Young man with the passion to become a knight someday, one young woman in love with him, one dwarf searching for his friend's daughter and one warlock who is helping him in his quest, one cleric and one thief sets out on a journey. We follow the adventures of Parn (human knight), Deedlit (beautiful elf woman), Etoh (human cleric), Ghim (dwarf), Slayn (human warlock) and Woodchuck (human thief). The series started with episode actually taken from the middle of this saga. Our heroes went into Great Dwarf Tunnel and... the story begins. In next few episodes we will learn how our heroes get together and what their backgrounds and goals are.
Great thing about this series is that story develops really fast and main characters rarely stuck in one location. Many new characters they encounter make this adventure even more exciting because those characters usually bring another story arcs into main plot, but in the end every path our heroes take is leading them to their final clash with ultimate evil.
Another aspect that makes this particular title interesting to watch is its unquestionable RPG link. It is really interesting to see how Parn's skill grows with every stroke he make, every new fight matures him, making him tougher and more able. It has everything average RPG fan will want.
What at first seemed like ordinary adventure becomes journey of their lifetime. Epic battles, great adventures, many races (humans, high elves, dark elves, orcs, berserker, even great dragons), sorcery and swordfights - it's all here. This anime takes itself seriously and delivers to us the genre that seems not so popular these days - heroic epic where good heroes are good, evil is evil, and almost every fight have an affection on the final balance of forces.
Opening and closing songs are very good, animation is top notched (for its time), and although there aren't many features on these DVDs, the animation itself is worth it. This anime set standard for fantasy adventure, like later Berserk did. Enjoy it.