For awhile I was meaning to see Jeremy Brett's interpretation of Sherlock Holmes, so several days ago I rented 'The Hound of the Baskervilles', which is an episode from 'The Return of Sherlock Holmes' TV series made by Granada Television. It was made in 1988, so I was expecting the production values to be on par with the 'Poirot' series from 1989 starring David Suchet as another ingenious sleuth, but this incarnation of the master of detectives hasn't aged very well.

Jeremy Brett is excellent as Holmes, generally held by many as the ultimate interpreter of the famous private eye, who stayed in character the entire time, never for a moment letting the audience forget who he is. Edward Hardwicke does an admirable job as Holmes' loyal assistant Dr. Watson, but his performance is a bit wooden at times.

The story itself is quite intriguing, involving a seemingly cursed estate out in the English countryside, in which generations of wealthy family members all succumb to the horrible fate of a legendary demon hound, also known as the hound of the Baskervilles. After a brief introduction to Sir Charles Baskervilles who is the current resident of the Baskervilles estate, the story skips ahead to Holmes and Dr. Watson who are greeted by the representative to the last living Baskervilles heir who hails from America, and he asks for their assistance regarding the infamous family curse. Holmes and Dr. Watson quickly realize that there is more to this story than meets the eye, so they decide to take the case and solve the mystery of the Hound of the Baskervilles. Dr. Watson is sent out ahead of Holmes to do some preliminary investigations in the small village in which the mystery is taking place, and from there the plot thickens.

Overall, the film feels a little incomplete. The special effects are nearly dreadful considering that this was made in the late 80s, a time in which movie effects had come quite far, so this aspect brought the movie down a bit in terms of credibility. Also the production values appeared to be skimpy, which hurt the story's atmosphere somewhat. Fortunately the acting was this film's saving grace, for the most part.

Story wise I felt that not enough time was spent on the various characters to explain their motivations, which made the ending rather anti-climactic. Having not read the book, I cannot say how well the story works in this regard, but perhaps this tale was better suited for the written medium and not the cinematic one since some of the plot devices weren't adapted that well.

Given the aforementioned reasons, I'd recommend skipping this incarnation of Holmes unless one is a die hard fan, but I am nevertheless impressed by Jeremy Brett so I will definitely seek out the rest of this series to see how the other episodes hold up.