We saw it with Mario Brothers, with Street Fighter, and with Fatal Fury. When will we learn that a movie based on a game just won't measure up? Well...I suppose with Final Fantasy it's a little different. The games are, needless to say, the cream of the crop. No other RPG is as good as the Final Fantasy series. The graphics are astounding, the storylines are involving, the characters are colorful.
This is what fools you into thinking the movie will be great. Save for the CGs (which are just incredible!), the movie has nothing that the games do. The storyline was nothing more than a recycled version of the plot from FFVII, and the characters have absolutely no personality. Unlike the favorites from the games, these characters have no distinguishing personality traits. They don't get a whole lot of screen time, so you can't get attached to them the way you can with the game characters, and they all seem the same anyway:angry and pessimistic. Absolutly no imagination was put into the villian either-he was just Seifer in Sephiroth's clothing. And it doesn't help that the script was about as colorful as a 1920's film. With such bland dialogue, how can one determine the personality of any character?
The audience doesn't even see a good portion of the plot. At the start of the movie, the audience pretty much drops in on Aki Ross as she stalks stealthily about some resticted area in search of...what? You don't really find out for another 30 minutes or so. There isn't enough information in the beginning of the movie to really know what's going on, who's in on it, and what the whole problem is. Unless you're an avid player of the games, you're just an outsider looking in.
Another thing that annoyed me was the title, which was a bit misleading. If I had watched the movie without knowing the title, I never would have affiliated it with the Final Fantasy series (that is until words like "Gaea" and "lifestream" started popping up). There was nothing "Fantasy" about it. I started watching the movie expecting to see a few spells, a summon or two (what's Final Fantasy without Bahamut?), maybe a little world travel. Did I see any? Nope. Not a bit. I saw a couple of cool firearms, but nothing that resembled a weapon out of any of the games. The movie lacked the imagination of the RPG, and I found it disappointing.
But I think the very worst part of the movie is the end, and I'll sum it up for you: Everybody dies. Aside from our heroine, everyone is reduced to ashes so quickly that there was little significance to the characters' existence in the first place. Very disappointing.
All in all, The "Final Fantasy" movie did not live up to the name that its predecessing games created. Perhaps one day, a game-based movie will be more than "okay," but in the meantime, we'll call "Final Fantasy" another valiant attempt.