Michael Bay's third installment of "Transformers" is worth every penny, even if all you want to do is show off your surround and high-definition setup, especially due to its astounding 7.1-channel Dolby TrueHD audio and relentless action scenes. To the story in a minute, but first, the sound is a big deal because few big pictures as of the end of 2011 are filmed in 7.1. The difference between 7.1 and the 5.1 that your ears are used to is mind blowing, assuming you have a 7.1 system. It fills all the corners of your listening space freakishly well, putting even the subtlest sounds in the corners of the room, behind the couch, under the couch. The movie gives you crystal clear stereo transitions and sounds that seem to snake around you, moving from one speaker to the next. Sounds are where they should be, and they can surprise you. Simply put, this is one of the richest sound experiences you can get in a movie, even without 7.1 I'd wager.

Now, that story I promised. If you think "Dark of the Moon" is a rehashing of the same old stuff, you're not completely wrong. But the elements that made the first two movies work were pretty good. The Decepticons are back again with a plot to take over the world, and it's up to Sam and the Autobots to shut them down. Rounded characters and glimpses into the "Transformers" universe keep things interesting. Shia LaBeouf and the actors who portray his parents gel as well as ever, with Sam the ever-geeky comic with heart. And the guys won't be able to take their eyes off his girlfriend. Nearly every character has a motive and compels the story forward, and once it gets going, the action seems to never end. Bay takes us to the brink of Earth's destruction like never before. Perhaps there are only so many ways a robot can spin, dodge and attack another robot, but it never stops being fun to watch, especially with Bay's cinematic standards, with visuals so sharp and contrasty they almost hurt your eyes and animations that are still dumbfounding. You'll want to watch it again.

In perspective, if this had been the first "Transformers," it would have been even more mind blowing. But if you can't walk away somehow enriched from some of the best visuals and audio on the planet, a compelling and fast-moving -- if not a bit complicated -- story, some of the most intense action ever, and the biggest-hearted robots in the universe, maybe movies aren't for you.