Like all good science fiction, the futuristic setting is only glossy packaging to capture our interest while distancing us to the role of specator...the content is about our contemporary world and the issues within it.  Based on the late Dr Carl Sagan's book by the same name, "Contact" is an eloquent exposition about the conflict of opinion regarding science and religion.  No where is this more evident than in the range of reviews listed here and how the reviewers felt about the movie's message. 
This is a "deep" movie - meaning it will appeal to those who like to think about their movies, rather than just experience them.  If you are hoping for a Heinlein "Starship Troops" action flick, forget it.  There is some amazing eye-candy in form of the much touted Earth fly-away in the opening and the psychedelic trip to Vega, (an obvious nod to another "deep" sci-fi film by another accomplished sci-fi author), but on the whole, this is film that will keep you occupied well past its 150-minute run time.
Is there reality a conflict between Science and Religion? Or is one a form of the other?  Can anyone really claim to be purely scientific or purely religious?  Or perhaps these are mutually supporting methodologies where the human race decides what it knows and what it doesn't know, but believes.  A review is not meant to answer these question, but viewing the film is certainly going to make you think about them.
Jodie Foster was perfectly cast in the role of Dr. Eleanor Arroway, an orphan turned scientist who is about as close to the purely-rational intellectual as a human can get.  (Remember, Mr. Spock was only half human.)  It was no doubt a risky move for a popular actress to play an atheist protagonist to an almost wholly religious audience, but Ms. Foster, noted for her integrity in choosing roles, delivers a performance that should have earned her an Oscar (or perhaps that was the price?)  
In all a great movie that I'm pleased to have in my collection and one I'd unconditionally recommend for those deep-thinkers and lovers of hard science fiction.