Vincente Minnelli may be known as one of the greatest musical directors, if not the greatest. But when it comes to depict the eternal human character or tell us a sentimental story, he is also unique,as can be proved by his non-musical films such as "Madame Bovary", "The Bad and the Beautiful", "Lust for Life", "Tea and Symphaty", "Some Came Running", etc. Having seen them all during my long cinephile career, "The Clock" was a precious unknown piece for me which I was trying to see since years. And the result was far from being disappointing. The storyline is simple: a soldier on leave for only 24 hours meets a girl in the Central Station of New York, they fall in love and get married. Departing from this basic story, the tasteful artist suceeds to create a unique war time atmosphere, in a city where the busy daily life still goes on, but with something in the air filled with a typical feeling of "anything can happen now". And we all know, since films as "Casablanca" and alike, that love in war time has to be in a hurry, that even minutes count and there is no space for words like patience or waiting. Therefore, the effort of the young couple to achieve their formalities of marriage gets as breathtaking as an action movie. Ýn this film which she made for Vincente Minnelli right after the marvelous musical "Meet Me in Saint-Louis", Judy Garland is as magfnificient as ever,this time even more natural and more herself without the Technhicolor and fancy musical dresses. That was the time when she was about to get married with Minnelli. Robert Walker whom you might remember from his portrayal of a murderer in Hitchcock's "Strangers on a Train" is as convincing as ever. Does anyone remember that he was the belowed husband of Jennifer Jones who, at the edge of stardom, was stolen from him by the mighty producer David O'Selznick? Consequently, he became an alcoholic and died from an overdose. Things that happen!...Don't miss this small-scale, but charming movie.

Atilla Dorsay