Distinguish between "movie reviewers" and "film critics."  The former are incurably lazy creatures, driven by deadline and freebie lust.  The latter are insular and inclined to read into any film a "text."  As someone in between the two poles, let me step up and say that the people who merely react to "The Men Who Stare at Goats" react badly.  They reach for "Three Kings" references.  They want hunkiness.  They want plots.  They want easy lumps of comedy or satire or preaching or drama.

"The Men Who Stare at Goats" is a great film.  It takes an absolutely unadaptable non-fiction work that is, itself, a meandering work of discovery journalism, and yet create a narrative out of it.  There are multiple threads in Jon Ronson's book, and the film makers chose one perspective, one emotional line, to frame their film.  The film is therefore closer to "Dr. Strangelove" than it is to "Three Kings," because its story is the elegy of good intentions turned evil, diligent service perverted by personal sin or evil force.  The film celebrates a loss, a loss not of innocence, but a loss of reform.  Ronson's book does that, as well, but the film takes this element and reflects it in the narrator as well as the story the narrator is providing, and the figure the narrator follows.

The narrator (McGregor) has lost his innocence (a "normal life"), and that prepares him to see that there is a chance at redemption (the "big story"), and that gets corrupted ("they laugh at Barney the dinosaur"), and he emerges from the tale a harder, new man.  The story he chases is of Vietnam (the breaking of "normal war") and its hope for redemption (the "Be All that You Can Be" of the New Earth Battalion), and its destruction by the PsyOps "Dark Side" torture.  Interlaced stories of false redemption, where only the redeemer is left, and the redeemer must choose to fight on or accept the power of the Dark Side, play out.

The performances are superb, and the visuals are lovely.  The cinematography captures changes of era and setting subtly, even as costuming and caricature play for laughs.

If you see this "move" and "don't get it," then that's alright.  Let it sit in your mind for a while.  Like the "quivering palm" it may take a few years to do its work, but it will devastate you, sooner or later.