Come Early Morning (2006) is a story too close for
comfort, and to reality, for that matter, for a
significant part of the USA population, that has a
non-megacity lifestyle, residing mainly in the
Mid-West.

Based on a story that seems to be rooted back in the
1970's, perhaps in the 1980's (as modern times reaches
all corners of each country at a snail's pace,
unevenly), there's a fair bit of 70's pickup trucks,
traditional country music, etc.

The movie is heavily rooted in the promiscuous
lifestyle of a number of adult men and women from the
town, or driving through it, who don't quite know what
they want from life, in their personal relationships,
being truly chaotic in the intimacy realm, often
jumping from partner to partner.

The soundtrack plays a key role in carrying the story,
building the small-town or countryside atmosphere, (
Willie Nelson, and Bobby Dylan-like, etc.) The filming
is crystal clear, the song selections wisely chosen.

If there's perhaps a questionable approach, it's the
excess detail of the bed-side scenes, (albeit, never
graphic), as well as the numerous scenes that tend to
zoom or center at Ashley Judd's tight jeans pants and
backside, or even, her tight tank tops, or loose
fitting and open ones, her underwear, or showing her
pulling down  her pants, or putting on her pants, for
example.

Judd is also paired with another attractive blonde, her
roommate, throwing in extra eye-candy to sell the
worth.

This approach to selling the film by touching upon a
kind of voyeurism of the actress, under the pretext of
making the story hit home,  may not be understood by
all of the  audience.

At the same time, there is no doubt whatsoever, that a
real segment of the USA population indeed sees itself
in the lifestyle depicted. The aspect of euthanizing a
loved pet, found on the side of a road, also pulls on
the heart strings of the audience, as does the
heartbreak shown to be had by the actress.

The script doesn't shy away from showing family
conflicts, the elderly, the passed away, the relations
of adults in motels, trucks, night clubs and bars.

Interestingly, the moral dimension of human beings is
brought into the story, as one-night-stands time and
again, result in confusion, pain, anguish, suffering,
tantrums, profanity directed at loved ones, tarnished
reputations, etc.

Religion is suggested as an outlet that can alleviate
emotional pain, and also, physical frailty.

Every 5 minutes, it seems someone is opening up a
bottle of bear, having a smoke, an adult seeking
companionship, or intimacy.

Overall, this movie is scary for someone looking for an
uplifting experience at the theatre, but a good DVD
rental.