First off, I put in 5 stars so you could read this without too much difficulty finding. BTTF looks amazing in its complete restoration, with the stunning quality that a blu ray could offer. So when I upwrapped this sucker, I fired up the blu ray player and opened the box.

I wanted my fix of Doc Brown and Marty McFly.

Problem 1: WTF is this packaging? Blu Rays held in place by clips with the digital copies behind them. When it comes to movies in general I tend to take care of my things. But BTTF, well, I baby this Trilogy. So now I open this box and pray that I can figure out the correct method in freeing the Blu Ray from its clip without breaking a chunk of the side off of the Blu Ray in the process. I want to protect my investment, how come they couldnt do something like the old trilogy on DVD that I purchased when they first went to DVD? Why do I have to play a game of russian roulette with discs I just spent over 50 bucks for? Honestly? And taking the discs out was the first challenge, putting them back in was fun too. I didnt expect this epic fail of packaging.

BUY SOME NICE REPLACEMENT CASES for your Blu Rays so you dont have to store them in this case. Ugh.

Problem 2: After the product was unpackaged, it really was easy to hold the jacket of the Blu Ray, wrapped around the case with the actual discs of the movie and have the inside case slide out of the bottom of the jacket. I didnt bother to think about this situation before it happened to me. Im sure someone else out there has already done this as well. Thank god when this happened, it bounced off of a soft matress of a bed I was viewing this movie from. But if it was to fall down onto a hardwood floor or a hard tile floor, who knows how well the packaging could hold up. Just goes back to wondering....WTF is up with this packaging?

Problem 3: Extras were a little shaky. Most of the extras were recycled from the DVD set when it first was released as a trilogy. The digital copies were a huge plus, but if you are a die hard fan of this trilogy, im sure many were expecting the Eric Stoltz footage (since there was 5 weeks of it, as explained in the online "teaser for the BTTF blu ray edition" that came out a week and a half ago.). Unless I completely missed it (which I skimmed through all of the extras from the 3 discs) I kinda wanted to see the BTTF with whatever they had with Stoltz in it, just because it would be a completely different look at a movie that I have enjoyed hundreds of times before. It would've been interesting to see that kind of stuff. But nope, not there. Thats kinda sad considering we are celebrating a 25th anniversary edition digitally restored with digital copies and as many extras they could pack in.

If I have overlooked it, please correct me if im wrong.

Problem 4: I was expecting some more stuff in this special edition set. Like maybe a little model DeLorean that opens up to store your Blu Rays or maybe a sports almanac or something. The Dark Knight got this treatment; the little Batman mask to open up with the blu ray discs inside. Maybe paying a little more money to get that extra bonus, it wouldve been a nice little treat. Im sure you could figure out other things they couldve done with this Blu Ray set. It seems a little bare for a 25th anniversary edition in the United States to come with NOTHING else.

Of course the quality and the restoration of the Trilogy brings it up to todays standards. Looks very pretty in Hi-def. Although I have seen these movies many many many times, the clear picture really made this purchase shine. It is still an awesome pickup if you love this franchise, but it still felt kind of lame that there couldnt been some more packaged with this.