Now that this current batch of special edition sets are nearing their completion let's start a discussion. Let's do a count from best Bond film to worst. Starting with the Best, ending with the worst.

1. From Russia With Love - Great story, Connery is the man, & what a fight at the end between Bond & Grant. Get's Better Every Time.

2. For Your Eyes Only - Roger Moore's best turn as Bond & a wonderful apology for the Worst Bond film (See #22 Moonraker).

3. License To Kill - Timothy Dalton wasn't as bad as people make him out. Read the books. Bond is every bit as cold in the books as Dalton played him & it's hard not to picture him when you tackle the Literary Bond. And it was a pleasure seeing Literary Bond creep up for a spell on the movies. Which leads me to number 4.

4. Casino Royale - I am glad Daniel Craig has proved himself to be worthy (although he will unfairly suffer as the man who follows Brosnan). He has the coldness of Dalton down, but also manages to have touches of Connery, Lazenby, Moore, & Brosnan as well. Plus it was great to see a plot line from the book stay in the films for a change.

5. On Her Majesty's Secret Service - Would have been considered the Best if Connery had stayed. But once again people have unfairly treated the replacement. Lazenzby wasn't that bad folks. Also has the best Bond girl.

6. Goldfinger - What can be said about this one that already hasn't been said?

7. Octopussy - Truly underrated. Moore should have quit here. It would have been the perfect one go out a winner with.

8. The World Is Not Enough - Gets Better With Every Viewing. Brosnan was perfection as Bond by the time he got to this one.

9. Dr. No - Simply for one scene. Bond to Prof. Dent.
"You've Had Your Six." A Perfect Early Example Of A Cold Secret Agent.

10. The Man With The Golden Gun - Although the return of JW Pepper should have been left on the cutting room floor & Holly Goodnight has to be the dumbest Bond girl, the rest of the film is great. Great Villian (Christoper Lee steals the show), another underrated turn by Moore. Classic Bond Scene: (Scarmanga to henchman after he kills Hy-Fat)"He always did like that mosoleum. Put him in it."

11. Tomorrow Never Dies - Another Great Villian in Jonathon Pryce. Scene after scene is great & Brosnan prooves to be the best, thus far, since Connery.

12. Goldeneye - A welcome return after 5-6 years of 00-abscence. All the key ingredients were here. Has the best fight scene since From Russia With Love (between Bond & 006).

13. The Living Daylights - Once again, read the books, Dalton wasn't that bad. John Glen was a great director for Bond. He kept this one tight & to the point. Altogether a fun ride.

14. Thunderball - Connery seems to be having a blast in this one & so do we. A little too long. Classic scene between Bond & Fiona as they dance to her death. Another Classic Cold Bond Moment.

15. Diamonds Are Forever - Bond in a moon buggy in the desert has a special place in my heart for some strange reason.

16. The Spy Who Loved Me - I used to like this one more. Still find it very enjoyable, but it moves slowly for some reason & the bad guy wears out his welcome.

17. Live & Let Die - Not a bad debut from Moore, but he needed a better chance to show he was worthy. Bond's inner animal desperately needed to appear & it sadly didn't.

18. You Only Live Twice - Not all that bad, but this one suffers from me for being a fan of the books. This was the best book. It offered the best glimpse of Bond at his darkest (it followed the death of his wife). It's a shame the heart of the story was abandoned. Great turn from Donald Pleasance as Blofeld. He was very creepy.

19. Never Say Never Again - Some people don't count this one, but I do. It was great to see Connery return for one more go. Klaus Maria Branduer was a great villian too. Suffers from being basically a rehash of Thunderball though.

20. Die Another Day - Started off great, but just kept slipping downward as it went along. The CG Bond was a stain on the series, the bad guy wasn't so good, & (let's face it) Halle Berry didn't cut it. It's a shame Brosnan didn't get to go out with a winner. At least he's in this one to keep it from being totally unbearable.

21. A View To Kill - The film makers did try with this one I'll give them that, but Roger Moore was just too old for this one (you can spot his stunt man every time). That seriously makes this one hard to watch. Tanya Roberts, eye candy though she may be, was the worst Bond girl. Her job (more than any Bond girl) was to just stand there & look helpless. ONE GOOD NOTE: Cristopher Walken. His presence alone saves this one from being the worst.

WHICH BRINGS US TO THE WORST....

22. Moonraker: Just getting through this one is an endurance test. Starts off great with a knockout opening sequence, but goes downhill from there. Jaw's in love, Bond in space, & a villian who looks more with each passing scene like he just needs to go to sleep (this is a shame because every other time I've seen the actor Michael Lonsdale, he has been 1st rate). This is a real shame to the series. Not even laughably bad.

Hope you have enjoyed the reading.
Lets hear what every one else has to say.
Bond fans be heard!