I tried this video about a week ago and have since done it 3 times. The first time it was exactly what I expected. Repetitive routines with a slightly dance like feel (even the kick boxing inspired section feels dance like) while incorporating weights in a way that is safe for my lower back problems. Some reviews say the steps are too hard for people who don't have a dance background. I do have a little bit of a dance background, so I picked the video up fine the first time. The instructor does a great job talking you through the moves, and she teaches everything by starting a simple move and adding on time and time again. Some people get too frustrated if they can't follow something right away. The important thing is to keep moving the entire time. The choreography will come with time, and as for calorie burning, your body could care less if you get all the steps right... and I'm guessing you are doing this from home, so who cares if you look silly a half a dozen times while you learn it? We all have to start somewhere. Don't let "tricky" choreography be one more excuse of why you won't step out of your comfort zone and work your body hard.

As for those who say the DVD is not challenging enough... I hear ya. 6 months ago I would have found this DVD very challenging from both a cardio and a weight training stand point, but I have been working out hard and dropped 60 pounds since then. I take a lot of classes and have seen how instructors who really push me always have a lot of hopping around for the challenge and offer an easier modification for those who need it. Think of this video as a middle ground. It offers an easier modification to the actual routine, but why not try upping the challenge. There are many ways that you can modify the cardio to make it more intense. For moves that have high intensity for only a few reps, try doing the higher intensity version of the move for the whole time. Anywhere you can add a hop, do so. The routine is very repetitive, so you can find a move to substitute for a lower impact move to get more out of the routine. As for the weights with cardio sections. Do the video enough times to figure out when you can use heavier weights. I think they suggest 3-5 pounds, but why not pull out your 8-10 pound weights for all the leg and four limb work? A lot of the video can be done substituting a heavier set of weights to make it more challenging. Don't ever feel like you are stuck doing exactly what they do in the video. Start challenging yourself above an beyond what the video suggests. I love love love this video because of how simple it is to modify. The moves are solid and planned out very well, and they aren't so dancy that they encourage bad form for weight lifting.

I do get slightly bored with the DVD like anything I do because I prefer live classes (I have ADD, so I have trouble paying attention to the TV screen in comparison to an instructor standing in front of me barking out commands), but I combine this one with jiggle free abs and have a little bit over an hour of good cardio with weights. It is great for days I can't get to the gym. The great thing about this DVD is that the cool down is not as much of a stop and stretch deal. Your heart rate is elevated until the end to some extent, so transitioning between this and jiggle free abs works out pretty well. (Jiggle free abs is part of the TRANSFIRMER series, so while it is meant to be done with the transformer steps, you could very well use a chair or something else to modify the routine)

You won't go wrong with this video. I do suggest alternating it with something a little more focused on weigh training once you get to the point you want to tone up, but it is a great place to start with weights if you aren't currently doing anything with them.