After its initial, and critically-savaged, release in 1951, "Alice" languished in the Disney vaults for more than 20 years, until the late-60s craze for all things psychedelic, renewed interest in "Alice" and made it a cult-favorite for college rentals. Finally re-released to theaters in the early 70s, I saw it 5 times as a Tween. In contrast to today's glut of animated fare, back then "Alice" was like water in the desert.

What kept me coming back? it wasn't the craziness of all the characters Alice meets -- the "draw" was the animation of Alice herself, so beautifully and gracefully done. Many years later I found out how the animators (Disney's legendary "nine old men") did it: They made a live-action film first, to use as a reference.

Like me at that time, Alice dreams of a "world of my own," an escape from her boring life of dreary, colorless schoolbooks with no pictures. But in the grand old tradition of "be careful what you wish for," once she gets what she wants, she finds that a wonder-world where "everything is nonsense" is peopled with zanies who range from unbearably frustrating to downright nasty. Ever notice that the nicest character in the film is the doorknob?

Storywise, the film isn't much. Alice's Adventures are episodic and disjointed; she goes from one encounter to the next, and there doesn't seem to be any real point to the story except the aforementioned "be careful what you wish for." Unlike Cinderella or Snow White, Alice undergoes no great transformation or dream-come-true -- she goes back to her dreadfully dull life, presumably still the same girl she was at the beginning. ("That's it? Seriously?")

That said, the film is still a visual feast, abounding in sight gags both large and small. Largest is the positively brilliant "March of the Cards." But don't overlook the funny species of birds Alice runs into, when she's lost in the woods -- nor the blink-and-you'll-miss-it moment when the Dodo picks up an entire campfire in his bare wings.

Musically, "Alice" has more songs than most Disney films -- too bad most of them are mere snippets! I wish "Jabberwocky" and the sensual "A-E-I-O-U" could have had longer arrangements. But the lush "Golden Afternoon" is the envy of any Sweet-Adelines chorus. And did you ever notice that everything the Queen of Hearts says, is punctuated by a brass section? Sometimes I wish I could turn the vocals off and just study the orchestrations!