HEY! YOU DON'T SAY A REVIEW ISN'T HELPFUL BECAUSE YOU DON'T AGREE WITH THE OPINION EXPRESSED! GET A LIFE!

SOME SPOILERS

First off, yes this show has wolverine as the leader of the x-men. i too, just like you, was very resistant to this fact but as the show progressed it really proved to be very interesting for reasons i will explain below and it did captured the spirit of the comics. here is a quick run down of the pro's and con's of this show and keep in mind there are more pro's than cons.

pro's:

Wolverine and Cyclops' roles are reversed. At first i was completely against this but in episodes like "Excessive Force" & "Shades of Grey" we get to see Cyclops go BERSERK!! Fans of Cyclops should get a kick out of this, i did, especially since i felt he has be undervalued in the films and to see Cyclops blast everything in his path like a mad man was totally cool! Here Cyclops is very dark, resembling how he became after he merged with Apocalypse in the comics. it was a refreshing take on the character and it makes him look like such a bad ass!

Plenty of Nightcrawler. Don't be discouraged and think Wolverine is at the center of every episode, in fact some episodes he's barely in. Nightcrawler gets plenty of time to shine in this show. fans of him won't be dissapointed.

This show has created the best incarnation of Kitty Pryde ever! i usually can't stand the character but here she is amazing and turned out to be one of my favorite characters in the show. I mean, she fused with a helicopter so it could assault the inside of a building! that was bad ass, i wish they had done a scene like that in the films.

This is also my favorite incarnation of Emma Frost, i won't give away the ending but the twist at the end really made me like her so much more as a character. here she is very intelligent, yet untrusting. Just watch the end, it was her greatest moment for me. amazing.

at first it was hard to get used to Rogue without Ms. Marvel's powers but what i like most about her in this show was THAT SHE CAN CONTROL HER POWERS!!! i've always wanted to see a version of rogue that doesn't go into some emotional train wreck when she touches some one. here she can easily take anyone's powers and whip their ass without having to check into a mental ward! It was a version of her i've wanted to see for a long time. for instance, she grabs a ninja and says,"I  know bushido!" and just whips ass without a problem. that was great!

fans of xaivier should be happy because he does more than just sit on his ass in this show, he uses his legs for the entire show and is more of an action hero.

This is my favorite incarnation of the Scarlett Witch and quicksilver too. she's sexy and very moody and has an active role in everything that transpires and quicksilver is sly little devil having a big role in the Brotherhood.

The team assembly is well rounded. all your favorite characters are here practically,Beast, Cyclops, Iceman, Kitty Pryde, Bishop,Nightcrawler, Sabertooth,Psylocke (one episode), Gambit (2 episodes)  even The Hulk makes and appearence. I can't even name all the mutants!

lots of adult orientated themes, like intolerance and racism. The show even goes as far as to stage an event similar to 9-11 with Magneto allowing his Genoshian paradise to be attacked so he could wage war on the humans (*cough* *cough* George Bush invading Iraq*).

The animation was hard to get used to at first because i'm such a big fan of the original 90's cartoon but it grew on me fast. just look at it as another artist coming in to draw this "issue."

cons

The episode "Rover" is the stupidest thing i ever heard.  A mutant sells out their own kind because they have a greater love for a pet sentinal?! whoever came up with this idea should be slapped. This is the only episode i skip.

Gambit is only in 2 episodes but at least he is at the center of those stories

Rogue has no Southern accent.

There are some "borrowed" elements from "x men the last stand" regarding Jean Grey being a class 5 mutant and being the Phoenix since birth.

COLOSSUSUS IS IN THE SHOW FOR ONLY 2 MINUTES!!

NOT ENOUGH STORM!!!!

Overall this show was a huge improvement over that last blasphemous perversion known as X-men Evolution. It bring a more adult theme to the show and it felt refreshing to see a new take on some characters and keep the spirit and essence of those characters. Don't be discouraged just because Wolverine is the leader and some things have changed! KEEP AN OPEN MIND and you won't be dissapointed, it has a great story and plenty of X-men character's show up. i highy recommend this to X-men fans but if your on of those comic snobs that want everything to be 100% like the comic, stick with your comics and the 90's cartoon otherwise have a great time!

!