This DVD has two things going for it. It has a huge dragon battle, I love dragons, at the end of the movie, and it has some really promising scenes it it. Unfortunatly, the SFX used for the dragons aren't up to par with fantasy movies like Dragonheart and all the good scenes were in the selection of stuff cut from the movie.
Things go downhill from here. This movie is bad. The director obviously spent every last dime he had to create the CGI for the dragons. Things like good actors and script writers were forgotten until the last moment. The script looks like it was put together by a monkey with a typewriter. To make it "better" scenes were ripped out of star wars and stuck in were appropriate. Did anyone notice that the elven villige scene looks exactly like the Ewok villige scene in Return of the Jedi?
The actors are mostly either, a)cardboard cut outs or b)overacting to the point of emberassment. Justin Whalin is the star of the show. All other characters are in the movie to either try to kill him, thus making them the bad guys, or to save him from the aformintioned bad guys till he has a chance to take them, the bad guys, out later. He is also the only actor allowed into any of the dungeons. This keeps all the other actors in there place, manly standing around doing nothing. If a DM ran this campaign, his players would walk out on him after about a half hour. You would never cater this much to a single player.
I almost cried when I saw the deleted scenes on the DVD. As I mentioned earlier, these are the best scenes on the DVD. I cannot help but wonder if these are the punchline in some cruel joke being played upon the fantasy and science fiction lovers of the world.
If you have to see this, take my advise, rent it, mute the volume, and watch the first and last ten to fifteen minutes of the movie.
O, yea, I just thought of another thing the movie has going for it. Snails bites it half way through the movie. This is the best scene in the movie. I actually stood up and cheered when I saw this in the theater. Not like there was anyone there to see me do this.
I apologize profusly to all star wars fans by mentioning a star wars movie in connection to this peice of &lt;edited&gt;.