This work shows in the documentary format what "Boogie Nights" showed in fictional form.  Like "Kinsey," it is historical and is designed to celebrate how far the culture has come in progressing sexually.

To me, what stood out most is that sex radicals age.  The hip swinging cats of the early 1970s are now respectable senior citizens.  One of the interviewees even mentions Viagra.  Despite one's opinions and choices, the body ages.  Just like you only have one life, you only have one youth or time "to be young and wild."  There is a hilarious disagreement between an elderly couple here that had every audience member cracking up.

There are some documentaries that can talk about risqu&eacute; subjects without show explicit scenes: this work is not one of them.  There is nudity and a lot more.  If you are not of age to have seen "DT," then you are not of age to see this documentary about "DT."  Of course, I had no problem with the adult theme, I'm just warning parents that this is not a movie for your underaged children.

If a movie had a lot of African Americans but was not about a Black theme, you would notice it, right?  This would be true for any  racial and ethnic group, wouldn't you say?  Well, there are a lot of Jewish people in this documentary (Gloria Steinem, Roy Cohn, Annie Sprinkle, Ari Goldstein, Dr. Ruth Westheimer, etc.) though the issue is not a specific Jewish one.  No one ever states that the actors or producers of "DT" were Jewish.  So the viewer will be curious about who got chosen to be in this film.

The film is diverse in terms of the gender of interviewees.  Including John Waters and Camille Paglia breaks the heterocentric mode as well.  However, all of the interviewees are white.  The documentary shows Britney Spears to indicate that controversies around sexual openness exist to this day.  However, one focus of this film is obscenity and how courts handle it, yet 2 Live Crew is the offspring of this and their court case is never brought up at all.  Miss Spears has never been sued like they have.  Thus, this could have been more diverse.

One funny note:  while some interviewees show that they are comfortable retirees and "out of the game," some interviewees are wearing website addresses and holding their latest books.  These people are blatantly advertising.  And as "DT" is called the highest-grossing film ever, the interviewees here still follow a zealous capitalism more than three decades later.

Whether one likes it or not, adult films are a form of expression and thus documentaries with their cultural studies angles should be made, seen, and celebrated.