Pitch Black is an exciting sci-fi thriller of about space travelers being marooned on a planet faced by an attack of its indigenous nocturnal creatures. It smacks of many movies in the history of cinema, Aliens being the first which comes to mind, but the movie is very unique in several points. One is Vin Diesel's charismatic performance as the anti-hero Riddick. Physically impressive with his baritone voice Diesel's presence controls the film from beginning to end. However, I enjoyed the film as there are some unique portrayals of religion that are rarely seen in movies that deserve to be mentioned.  This is done through the character of Imam played by Keith David, which is contrasted and challenged by Riddick during the movie. I believe the screenwriters wisely chose the image of a Muslim religious leader rather than the traditional Christian clergyman. It was wise in the sense since Hollywood has often portrayed Christian ministers in the past as being hypocritical, indecisive, insipid, close-minded and so gentle to even appear effeminate. Hollywood is yet to commonly portray Muslim leaders in this way and this is what provides credibility for the audience regarding Imam's character. This is not to say there are not strong Christians, but cinema has influenced the culture to an extent that portraying such an image would be difficult to believe by an American audience. It is through the Imam that the issue of faith is brought up.

Spoiler alert
Imam is contrasted with Riddick who brazenly confesses that he does believe in God, but states that He is apathetic at least and sadistic at worst. However, Imam's belief does not waver despite Riddick's mocking of his faith even when a turn of natural events puts the survivors in jeopardy. In the end though it is Riddick's character, which changes due to the sacrifice of the Captain, Carolyn Fry who refuses to abandon anyone on the planet even Riddick. Fry ends up going back for a wounded Riddick and dies in the process. Riddick is shocked that anyone would sacrifice his life for him; especially this woman who knows that Riddick was willing to leave stranded the remaining survivors to save himself. Riddick is floored physically and emotionally with disbelief that anyone would sacrifie their life for anyone especailly him as he sees Fry's body being taken away. Such an act of self-sacrifice is Christ-like in nature and resonates Jesus' Crucifixion. This sacrifice is what produces an inward change in him expressed when after they escape from the planet he states that Riddick died back on the planet.

Altogether this was an interesting film, which raised philosophical and theological issues. Although the issue of God and human suffering are not given a thorough presentation in the movie it is expressed enough to make one think. One thing I have realized about this film is that it was released before the terrorist attack of 9/11, and I wonder how receptive the American audiences would be to having a Muslim being portrayed favorably in the movie, and what would the reaction be if released a year and half later than it actually was. Having watched this film recently,  I appreciated seeing a character who is religious in nature and not being portrayed as fanatical, hypocritical, or banal. The screenwriters created some worthwhile characters, and I await to see further adventures of Riddick after the Chronciles.