UPDATE May 20, 2012: Yesterday, I downloaded the latest Sony software update.  All discs and special features play fine now.

The blu-ray video/audio on each disc in the package is superb.  I grew up near Atlantic City and lived in the same town as the author of the book.  I cannot tell you the pleasure I felt when I first saw the Blueberry Capital of the World sign in the first couple of minutes of episode 1. My sister still lives "near mile marker 14 on the Black Horse."  Mr. Buscemi has never been better and amply fills the saddle wing tips he wears.  The actors, creative talent, and HBO have done an outstanding job on this series and blu-ray set.  I hope Mr. Scorsese does more television projects.

As with many blu-ray DVDs, HBO included a small insert that said the discs were manufactured to the highest quality standards.  I agree.  They are not defective.  If they don't play correctly, your player probably needs a software/firmware update and the player's manufacturer may not have the update available for download yet.  My Sony BDP-S580 updated with Nov 30, 2011 update could not play the discs, my LG 630 updated with Dec 1, 2011 update could not play them.  I was frustrated as many reviewers were.  I even exchanged my set for another and had the same freezing problems (I could only select Play All (no features played), if you think yours works correctly select Picture in Picture and see if it plays past third event in first episode).  However, my Samsung BD-5700 downloaded an update with 1022 in the numbers and there it was - Boardwalk Empire played correctly, all menus were listed, each episode was correctly identified in the menus.  I could select features, especially the Picture in Picture feature.  I couldn't get to the website on the HBO sheet, it probably only tells you the website of each blu-ray player's manufacturer.  My recommendation is to go directly to your player maufacturer's website in the support for your product and look for/download the latest update.

Thanks, Amazon.com, for the opportunity to review this product.  Keep up the good work.