Wow! A new film has entered the pantheon of my all-time favorites, and it zooms right into the top ten. That film is "Dark City" and I cannot encourage sci-fi/fantasy fans enough to see this film any way they can. It's superb!
With its roots firmly planted in the writings of Serling, Dick, and Kafka, "Dark City" weaves a tale that successfully blends film noir, German surrealism, horror, and sci-fi with the vision of Alfred Hitchcock, Tim Burton, Terry Gilliam, and Fritz Lang. It tells the tale of a man who wakes up to a living nightmare in which he not only does not know who he is, but also finds a dead prostitute in the hotel room in which he has unknowingly been living for the last three weeks. His only possessions are the clothes he is wearing, a piece of luggage, and a postcard from "Shell Beach", a place that stirs childhood memories. As he tries to piece together the life he cannot remember, he it dawns on him that he knows more than the rest of the world around him.
John Murdoch (Rufus Sewell - think a swarthy, young Christopher Walken) finds that he also has a beautiful wife (the lovely Jennifer Connelly - who seems to be making a living today playing women from the late Forties) and a companion in the mysterious Dr. Schreber (the unusually cast Keifer Sutherland doing a jarring Peter Lorre imitation). Pursued by an angst-ridden detective (the previously MIA William Hurt), and memories of a place he cannot reach, Murdoch tries to hold onto his love for his wife only to find that it may be an illusion. His desperate gamble to find the truth uncovers a horrific reality he could never have imagined.
"Dark City" is a master stroke. Every shot of this movie screams quality. The special effects are outstanding and do not overwhelm the film. The characters speak plausible dialog. Cinematographer Dariusz Wolski lensed this film even more capably than his work in "The Crow". Rarely, too, can a team work to create a world so timeless. The city and people of "Dark City" seemed trapped in an era-less reality, as portions of the Thirties, Forties, Fifties, and beyond disorientingly converge. Again, "Wow!"
"Dark City" is a mostly Australian production, so it had little fanfare when it hit the screens in 1998 (which may have worked in the film's favor.) It's non-Hollywood production is evident in the concept and its realization on screen. Though it is not without its borrowings; it liberally selects the best elements of such films as "Brazil", "2001: A Space Odyssey", "Metropolis", "Batman", "Dune", "Kafka", "The Crow", and "Hellraiser". The latter film is one of the few quibbles I have about "Dark City". The similarity in the costume design to the Cenobites in "Hellraiser" is too close for comfort. In fact, the very first time I saw the trailer for this film I initially thought it was a "Hellraiser" sequel. The villains' costuming in their underground city is perfect,... Otherwise, the production values are superb, creating a world and mythos that seem entirely plausible.
And that is the power of this film. Its dystopian vision, plotline, and fully realized production make it totally unique despite its "where have I seen this before" elements. That the film industry still has original ideas bubbling under its worn surface is exciting to me as I look forward to the next film by "Dark City"'s creator Alex Proyas, who was also the vision behind "The Crow", a film this greatly resembles.
Interestingly, "The Matrix" and "Dark City" are remarkably similar in their basic outline. "Dark City" was the earlier film, beating "The Matrix" to the screen by almost a year. Both films are excellent, but the nod goes to "Dark City" for its more fully realized plot, better acting, and overall sense of menace. It's a more gripping film than its rival, depending more on dialogue, characterization, and sense of utter foreboding that "The Matrix" counters with more physical action and its groundbreaking special effects. As a result, the story of "Dark City" plays out more effectively than "The Matrix".
"Dark City" is rated "R" mostly for nudity, violence, and intensity. The murders are never shown onscreen, though the partially naked bodies of the victims needlessly are. And mega-kudos to the writers, who in keeping with the timeless nature of the setting, avoided ALL profanity! Again, as I have always contended, excellent writing never needs to stoop to that level in most films. Still, this is a film for adults.
Buy the DVD, close the doors, turn out the lights and watch "Dark City" soon. It's a winner!