I was sort of reluctant to see this movie when it first came out. Lots of reviews that I had read said it was good for the first 15 minutes and then went in a downward spiral from there. I also heard on the radio that the movie was three and a half hours long, and when a movie is that long, it's a big hunk of time that you need to take out of your day to watch the movie. Finally, I went to see the movie and I am glad I did. 
I thought the opposite of what the reviews that I had read said. The first 15 minutes of the movie seemed like a sappy chick-flick movie about a son remembering storys that his dieing father had told him as a little boy, and then the rest of the movie sped up into a supernatural story of a man's life-long adventure. And the movie was a little over two hours, so I guess the radio lied. 
Now for a little plot summary, that may give out some of the stuff that happens in the movie, continue reading. I'll try not to give too much away. Big Fish was the story of a father and a son who didn't speak in years, speaking to each other for the first time in that time. The son had always been told exagerations of the truth by his father (or so he thought), and got very annoyed at his Dad's fish stories. This meeting between the father and son was because the father had become very ill, and was about to die. From that point on, through a series of flashbacks, you got to see the fathers life story his way, told my many different narrators. Through the father's adventures, he befriended giants, joined the circus, fought in WWII in Japan and met up with a pair of Siamese Twins, found a perfect town, and then saved it, got married, caught a really big fish on the day his son was born and then let it go, and saw the way he would did in the glass eye of a witch. Then the father had a stroke. He was rushed to the hospital, and through much strain, asked his son to tell him the way that he would die, and then wispered the word river. He had never told his son what he had seen in the witch's glass eye, so the son had to make up the story of his fathers death which had to do with the river. After the son was done with the story, his fathers last words were "Exactly!" and died. At the funeral, you got to see all of the people from the fathers stories, and as a suprising truth to the son that it wasn't all made up.
The moral of the story: Sometimes telling a exgerated lie based on the truth is much better than hearing the truth itself. As the son found out, his father's version of how things happened was much more exciting and entertaining than the way they happened in reality. And it also proved that dieing doesn't need to be a sad thing if you go out the right way.
The movie had great special effects of the weird and supernatural too. Having 12 foot tall giants standing next to 6 foot men was a nice feat, although at some points you could tell when puppets were being used. The Siamese Twins were great and of course, the big fish in the movie was very realistic. It was very Tim Burton-ish.
For paying tribute to other movies. Big Fish did that alot. Many aspects of the movie reminded me of the movie Citizen Kane. From all of the different charactors telling their version of the story to the father weezing out "the river" (aka- rosebud) on his death bed, I found it very alike. I don't know if this one was purposeful, but the fathers wedding ring reminded me of the ring from Lord of the Rings. 
Everything was consistent in this movie for the most part. There weren't any plot holes except for the Circus Ringmaster. At one point he turned into a wild wolf, and then switched back to human, and I didn't really understand the purpose behind this transformation. Maybe I should read the book that the movie is based on.
Overall, this is a great movie. Go and see it.