Saw's Final Chapter does everything it set out to do: It ties up all the loose ends, is done in 3D, is exceptionally gory, brings back characters throughout the earlier films, and ends the long-running story-driven plot. The problem is, most of these weren't accomplished in the best ways they could've been.

When a long-running horror franchise ends, it's nice to see everything fit together and make sense by the conclusion, which The Final Chapter achieves. But somehow, even though the film debuted within the timeframe of all the others, it feels rushed and insignificant. Perhaps this is due to what was to be Saw's biggest twist of all. It was not only suspected by most Saw die-hards, but the filmakers chose to introduce this colossal twist within the movie's first 10 minutes, ruining the effect. From that point on, it's a dead giveaway.

This isn't to say The Final Chapter doesn't have its moments. The acting is as good as it's always been for returning characters, so if you liked/disliked them before, nothing changes here. There are a few twists and turns along the way, which for better or worse, is entertaining to watch. Unfortunately, Tobin Bell(Jigsaw)'s screen time is significantly reduced. He appears in only a scant few scenes, and the perfomances are very brief. This makes the rest of the film's shortcomings all the more conspicuous.

The gore is top-notch, and is done magnificently throughout; perhaps better than ever before. The 3D effects are good as well, but let it be known you don't see a whole lot of it. Horror fans will likely find My Bloody Valentine 3D to be far more satisfying in the 3D department. The overall look is similar to what you'd come to expect from a Saw film, though there is a very interesting trap setpiece done in public while in broad daylight. It's new for the series, and is a very welcome addition.

Saw: The Final Chapter is an interesting film, and ties up the numerous loose ends from the earlier installments, making the annual horror series come full circle. Most die-hards will enjoy it, as it accomplishes all it's primary objectives. It's just that it seems if that was the filmakers' only goal, and to do it as quickly as possible. The Final Chapter manages to come together, but something's missing. It's a good movie and a good Saw film, but it may not be the epic finale you were hoping for.