As a baseball fan and film buff, I always loved this film: a wonderful cast, brilliant photography, inspiring musical score, and deeply cool NY Knights baseball uniforms. Then I read Bernard Malamud's novel and discovered something rather disturbing: the film is not only unfaithful to its source, but in a way completely reverses the author's thematic intentions, so much so that I'm surprised Malamud allowed his name to be attached to it.
Malamud based the novel on the tale of Sir Percival, the Grail-Knight, who made his own sword and was ultimately defeated for his arrogance and vanity. Malamud's Roy Hobbs is shallow, vain, materialistic, hungry for the glory and admiration that come with stardom but unmindful of the responsibility, constantly making wrong decisions (especially with regard to women) and never acknowledging his own failures and limitations. In the end, he strikes out, the Knights lose, the scandal hits the papers, and Roy, crushed and broken, realizes that he never learned from his mistakes and weeps "many bitter tears." In a way, Roy was like the Mighty Casey, a hero who proved to be fallible even as the hordes cheered him on. 
Barry Levinson's film offers a completely different take on the myth of the American sports hero, turning him into more of a Sir Gallahad, noble and pure, golden-haired and chiseled, who rescues the sad-sack Knights from oblivion and leads them all the way to the promised land, in the process rediscovering his long-lost love and thwarting the evil plans of some shady characters. The light-shattering home run that ends the film, and the pastoral wheat-field scene in the coda, punctuate the feel-good, all's-well-that-ends-well Hollywood fantasy.
Malamud's theme was that heroes are not all they're cracked up to be; flawed, selfish, ordinary human beings whom we probably ought not to hold in such high regard. Levinson's film eviscerates that theme and replaces it with something decidedly less literary and more "entertaining."
That said, it is a fine film in its own right, and some of the novel's characters (especially Wilford Brimley's Pop Fisher, Robert Duvall's Max Mercy and Joe Don Baker's Ruth-like "Whammer") and moments (Roy knocking the cover off the ball) come through brilliantly. It's just disappointing that it's ultimately so different from the novel; perhaps it should have been re-titled. 
Read the book.