HBO has done a superb job in telling the story of "the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventures on which mankind has ever embarked." - JFK. With a cast of hundreds and a staggering budget of  close to 70 million, Tom Hanks and HBO have woven together stories from the  Apollo program into one 12-episode miniseries. 
The first episode,  "Can We Do This?," begins with the early years of American space  exploration. Alan Shepard's heart stopping Freedom 7 flight is skillfully  portrayed and Ed White's first Gemini spacewalk is seen. It really is a  great beginning. "Apollo 1" gets right to the point. Within 5  minutes after the start of the episode the fire occurs. Most of the rest of  the episode chronicles the investigation with the Apollo 204 Review Board  and the clash between Harrison Storms and Joe Shea. It's got a really neat  ending, probably the best of the series. "We Have Cleared the  Tower" follows the Apollo 7 crew training all the way up to the launch  as seen by a documentary crew filming the mission. If you want to know what  it's like before a mission, this is the episode for you. "1968" I  honestly thought was the worst episode. A lot of it is just a bunch of  stock news footage from '68 and it keeps switching from color to those  annoying black and white shots. However, this episode survives because  later on it has an excellent scene as the Apollo 8 crew witnesses the first  earthrise seen by humans. The episode also has some great in-flight scenes  while the crew is in lunar orbit. "Spider" is by far one of the  best. It has a good story mixed with a little dose of humor. It's really  interesting seeing all the work that went into the lunar module and the  Apollo 9 flight. This one also has a great ending. The only bad thing is it  gives only 30 seconds devoted to the Apollo 10 mission. "Mare  Tranquilities" is a great episode, but could have been better. I got  sick of the interviews mixed in with different scenes. It isn't until the  end that you see the actual mission, when Apollo 11 is already in lunar  orbit. But the episode is still good because of the fast paced landing and  the goose-bump filled first step. It's a scene you can't get enough of.  "That's All There Is" is a fun one. The Apollo 12 crew was best  friends and it showed. This episode is one of the most enjoyable and is a  great one to watch with friends, especially if you are the only space buff.  Astronaut Al Bean narrates the episode. "We Interrupt This  Program" follows the press covering the flight of Apollo 13. The  producers were creative and did not show any shots of the crew in space  except at the beginning. The reason for this is because they did not want  to compete with the movie Apollo 13 and they wanted something new and  different. "For Miles and Miles" is another one that could have  been better. It's got a slow start but a good ending. The episode follows  Alan Shepard's road to return to the flight rotation. "Galileo Was Right"  is a great one. It is interesting and fun as you watch the Apollo 15 crew  go through geology training and eventually go to the moon and drive the  lunar rover. One of the best. "The Original Wives Club" has not been one  that I have watched over and over. It tells the astronaut wives' story and  what went on behind the scenes while the astronauts were training for the  Apollo program. It has only about five minutes worth of Apollo 16 footage,  which was a disappointment. But it is an interesting one. "Le Voyage Da Na  Lune" has to be the most creative episode there was. Mixing scenes of an  early 20th century film crew filming a movie about a science fiction voyage  to the moon as well as Apollo 17 footage. It also features interviews with  the "astronauts," which are actually the actors who played them, speaking  of Apollo. It ends with parts of Kennedy's speech and the astronaut's names  scrolling across the screen.
From the Earth to the Moon has to be the  best thing HBO has ever done. The accuracy makes it seem almost like you  were there in the 60s and 70s, watching as mankind voyaged to another  world. I have watched many episodes almost a dozen times because I can't  get enough of it. If you are interested in Apollo or even if you lived  during Apollo and want to re-live the adventures, then get this now. You  won't be disappointed.