Let me start by saying that most people who watch this film are of one of two types: 1. the type that expect the movie to fall solely into the traditional sci-fi genre, or 2. the type that are devotees of traditional sci-fi and dislike horror despite knowing that is an element of Event Horizon.

Event Horizon is NOT a sci-fi movie. It is primarily a horror movie that uses futuristic space technology as an original plot element (the closest movies I can think of are The Thing and The Abyss).

Don't be fooled if you are a horror fan - this movie is AMAZING. The acting is incredible, the plot is great, and the script is intelligent. Event horizon was panned by many critics including Roger Ebert. One of Ebert's central criticisms involved the supposed stupidity of the film, the claimed epitome of which was a scene where Sam Neil gives a "silly" explanation of space travel exceeding the speed of light. What Ebert fails to recognize is that the scene also serves to provide increased involvement for the supposed year that the movie takes place (Neil uses a centerfold from the year 2047) and serves as character development (the centerfold belongs to a crew member who is upset because Neil pokes holes in her... it helps to humanize the otherwise stoic crew).

Prior critiques aside, this is one of the scariest movies you will ever see. This is coming from someone who has seen virtually every theatrical horror release in existence and many direct to dvd/vhs releases as well.

The blu-ray quality is also GREAT. I read a couple of reviews that said the upscaled DVD is just as good. Um.... I'm watching this on a 46 inch LCD and I can assure you that it far exceeds the most recent widescreen DVD release and FAR exceeds the initial DVD release (which was not truly widescreen). Anyone who doesn't think so is either not discerning or has a small screen.

In summary, I can't recommend this movie highly enough. I enjoy all genres of film but really appreciate being terrified. If you also like being terrified, I promise you that you will not be disappointed! I know many highly educated people who love this movie... don't believe the critics who only attempt to act enlightened with their narrowly focused journalism degrees (at best).