Bad Blood did deliver.  It was waaay better than last years BB.
There were lots of ups and downs heading toward this PPV.
I saw the PPV today and was pretty satisfied....
This PPV did Infaticly deserve the name it gets. BAD BLOOD!
Heres my review and thoughts of the matches...
Reviews go from 1(Worst) to 10(Fantastic!)
Matches are in Order....I think..
World Tag team championship
Chris Beniot,Edge Vs La resistance.....7/10
This match was good.  Good opener for the event.  I would have given it an 8 If it wasn't for Kanes Impact at the end of this match.
Jerico vs Mike Tomako(I can't say it right!)
This was a pretty good match....Great styles and moves From Y2J..8/10
Intercontenintal championship Match
Randy Ortan vs Shalten Benjimen....7/10
This match was kinda slow....But picks up very quick at the end...To bad Ortan had to hold the tights to win.....
Fatal 4 way for the Womens Title
Victoria vs Lita vs Trish Vs Gail Kim...4/10
I'm not really interested in these matches..But it was ok I guess....I wasn't to big on this one....Four just for lita...She mostly did all the Work....
Coach Vs Eugene....7/10
This was a pretty interesting match!  I really liked the way Eugene uses his talent...Yeah it's a gimmick but It's a good one....Go Eugene!!!!
World Heavyweight ChampionShip Match
Kane Vs Chris Beniot.....8/10
Very slow in the begining but in the end it picks up very well...Chris Beniot proves once again why he is 4-REAL!
Hell in a Cell Match
Triple H Vs Shawn Michaels....9/10
This Match was just BRUTAL!  Lots of blood from the two superstars...Shawn Michaels and HHH gave there souls, there energy, everything into this match....It wasn't the best Hell in a Cell match..But it was a good one....This match was very slow in the begining and in the middle but starts to pick up near the end...Tables, Ladders and Chairs were all of good use in this match....This HIAC was much better than the one last year at Bad Blood when it was Triple H Vs Kevin Nash.....
And sadly HBK did not win....And sadly no one got out of the cell and went to the top of the cell...I was really hoping HBK would do an elbow drop from the top of the cell to the announce ment table with HHH laying on it...But it didn't because of HBK's back problems... but still this was a great Event that won't be forgotten....
I give it a 9.3 out of 10...