Harvey Keitel's character, Major Steve Arnold is offensive in a way peculiar to the American entertainment machine. He fuels his investigation of a symphony conductor with emotion derived from repeated viewings of a bulldozer pushing the dead of Bergen-Belsen into a mass grave. Although it is a pre-trial inquiry, Arnold is convinced from the beginning of the guilt of the "defendant". Guilt of what? Not murder. Not Nazi party membership. Guilty of not leaving Germany in 1934 and continuing to work as a conductor. This, in Arnold's narrow mind, constitutes complicity.
The crowning outrage is the conductor's actual handshake with Adolph Hitler after a performance. For this Arnold berates him during endless interrogation sessions in his office, which makes up the bulk of the film. His voice quivering with rage, his vocabulary brimming with street punk vulgarity, he humiliates the conductor in a variety of ways until he feels he's "proven" his case.
One watches with a growing frustration as the hapless conductor tries to prove he is not a Nazi or anti-semite with feeble statements on art and the human spirit. No mention is made of the limited choices available in a totalitarian society. What, for example, was the conductor to do when the Fuhrer extended his hand to shake? Slap him in the face? Shake his hand only on condition the Fuhrer come backstage for a lecture on ethics? The major seems to have not the slightest inkling that the Nazis used piano wire for other things than making pretty music.
This is based on a true story, but I doubt very much anyone in the US Army conducted himself in this way with the conductor. This movie seems to grow more out of the Hollywoodish belief that if you work yourself into enough of a moral outrage and stamp your little foot loud enough, you can right retroactively all the wrongs of history.
It's unclear whether the writer/director actually sides with the shallow Arnold, or with his callow assitants, but he certainly gives the former the upper hand throughout the movie. When his stenographer, Fraulein Straube, resigns her post in revulsion over Arnold's Gestapo tactics, Arnold pulls her over to the movie projector to watch the Bergen-Belsen footage. One wishes she had some footage to show him, perhaps of skin falling off children with radiation sickness in the city of Hiroshima, or of mass graves operated by the major's "pals" in Siberia, pals with whom he not only shook hands, but had dinner and drank himself into a stupor with.