What do Stephen Sondheim and Anthony Perkins have in common?  Both have mother issues--Perkins kept his stuffed and stashed in the basement, and Sondheim probably would have done the same to Foxy if he could.  They shared a fondness for puzzles and games.  And they were friends.

In the early 1970s they collaborated on a movie script.  I wonder how much each many wrote.  (Sondheim gets top billing in the credits.)  I say that because many of the characters talk and act like Sondheim characters in his musicals, except they do not burst out singing.  I have never read any solo writing by Perkins, however, so I have no idea what his writing style would be like.  At any rate, this is a film where the screenplay is definitely the star--Herbert Ross' directing, the star-studded cast, and even the Mediterranean vistas play second-banana to the written word here.  Unfortunately, one of the bad features of this DVD release of The Last of Sheila (as many others here have mentioned) is the poor sound in this dialogue-heavy film.  Often I found myself missing what turned out to be key lines.  Someone suggested playing it with the captioning turned out, and that's not a bad idea, at least for the second viewing: so much of the talking is fast and I fear watching the film with captions the first time would make it hard to also follow the plot, which is, as one would expect from Sondheim, convoluted.

Unfortunately, while the story is ingeniously structured, it is in fact so tight that I found it difficult to care for the characters as people.  They are more like archetypes to allow the whodunit plot to function.  There is nothing *wrong* with this, of course, and I'm sure the authors would argue this is a feature and not a bug of the murder mystery, and especially this type of murder mystery.  True, but I personally can't get excited over these types of constructions.  I am glad I've seen them when they're over, but I know I won't soon be returning to this movie because it just didn't function for me as anything beyond a clever mechanization.  One of the amazing feats of Robert Towne's script to Chinatown, penned around the same time as this, is the fact that it delivers the expected complex and revelatory murder mystery in the expected noir style while still being a rich character drama, with very human people we get to know and care about.  It's hard to do both--a character drama *and* a taut, mechanically-watertight whodunit--at the same time.  You either lean towards the character side at the expense of plot (Altman's The Long Goodbye) or vice-versa, as is done here.  So urgent is the plot that we never really get to know much about the various show-biz types on board the yacht--we learn just the bare bones about them that we need to know to get the plot going.  Therefore it's hard to rate the acting performances.  They are adequate and convincing, without there ever being any sort of personal twist displayed by anyone, because the past-his-prime director, bitchy-Hollywood-agent, double-crossed screenwriter, etc., are all archetypes.

Even the glorious locale barely factors into the story.  We get a few nice shots of the French Med.  But it's gratuitous.  This easily could have been set in some run-of-the-mill small town somewhere--and lo and behold it was originally, until the producers told Sondheim and Perkins to change the location so that at least they had an excuse to go somewhere glamorous and have fun for six weeks.

Ultimately The Last of Sheila dots every i and crosses every t (even though, when you start to think about it, the chain of events is super-improbable, as these sorts of things usually are), yet in the end I found myself unmoved, merely satisfied.  Critics of Sondheim's lyrics and music often accuse him of being cold and emotionally-distant, something I find baffling in light of such songs as "Send in the Clowns," "Anyone Can Whistle," "Loving You," "Finishing the Hat," and about half of Follies.  But if anyone accused this screenplay of such frigidity, I'd have to agree.  The story is clever and intelligent, but the characters are used like chess pieces, to set up a position and execute an attack.  And when checkmate comes, we admire the clever strategic planning that got us there, but little more.  Still, this is a genuinely unusual and interesting picture, and I'd recommend it just for that reason.  Just prepare to go away feeling a little...empty.

Picture is good enough, though the film shows some age.  The sound, as I said before, is rough-going, especially in the first half when most of the scenes are exterior.  There's a commentary track that is interesting except when Raquel Welsh opens her mouth.  Other than that, not much on this fairly bare-bones DVD.  (A commentary by Sondheim would have been nice, but he's not the easiest person in the world to get a hold of.)