I have seen all the movies made of the Titanic tragedy (except any silent movies) and recommend "A Night To Remember" to anyone wanting to watch a true story of the actual people who were on board the ship on that terrible night. I don't think any movie can ever match the final scenes of Cameron's "Titanic" starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, when the ship splits in half, the stern bobs in the ocean for moments and then sinks taking all those trapped within to the ocean floor 2 miles below. The screams and cries for help of the 1500 people who did not make it into a lifeboat, but were left to freeze or drown still haunts me.  Sadly, I think Cameron missed his chance to make a true classic. He recreated the ship brilliantly and accurately to the smallest detail.  Unfortunately he decided to ignore the stories of most of the actual passengers on the voyage to tell a fictional love story.  "A Night to Remember" cannot match Cameron's movie for grandeur and thrilling images of the sinking ship.  However, in staying true to the actual events of that cold April night on board the "unsinkable" Titanic; events told to the author of the book from which the movie was made by 70 of the Titanic's survivors, I was drawn into the story on a deeper, more poignant level. The final scenes of this movie are not as exciting or emotionally draining as those in Cameron's "Titanic", but they have a reverence and respect for the people who died that night that was lacking in Cameron's telling.  "A Night to Remember" was based on Walter Lord's book of the same name which he wrote after interviewing 70 surviving crew and passengers.  His book melded their stories into an accurate depiction of the Titanic's maiden voyage.  In one of the final scenes, the camera lingers on the desolate face of the Captain as he listens to the band playing "Nearer My God to Thee" and hears the desperate cries of the passengers. Helplessness, sorrow, guilt...all so evident in his haunted face. At the end of "A Night to Remember", one of the ship's officers, Lightoller, who was instrumental in saving many lives, says to the captain of the rescuing ship, the Carpathia, that "We were so sure. I don't think I'll be sure of anything ever again." This movie, unlike any other made of this tragedy, made me understand why the night of April 14, 1912 has been called the event that marked the end of an era.