I saw Over The Hedge the other day. I know I'm a little late reviewing it, since it came out over 4 years ago, in 2006, but in my defense, I don't watch many movies.

While I was uncomfortable with the way the wild animals were thriving on human junk food (umm, no, human junk food is really bad for wild animals), the rest of the movie struck me as, well, a movie. Until my little daughter asked, "Mommy, why did they make the woman a bad woman?"

If you haven't seen the movie, there are two main human characters. One is a parody of an exterminator (male), and the other is a single, well-dressed woman, president of the Homeowner's Association, and the villain of the piece.

I told my daughter that they (the makers of the movie) hadn't made the woman bad because she was a woman, but because they needed a bad person, a villain. I ended up explaining how a movie plot generally works and left it at that.

Until I started thinking more about the original question. Because, on second thought, the woman seems to be a caricature of a high-powered female executive. She's dressed in a power suit (or expensive-looking pajamas), her hair is nicely styled, and she's always on the go. She doesn't seem to have a family, or even a significant other, just a snooty Persian cat.

She's portrayed as obsessive, uptight, and terrified of wild animals or anything else disturbing her precious orderly neighborhood. Why should the single woman doing well in life be the villain? I can easily see a mother being much more worried about the wild animals in the neighborhood -- what if they bite one of her children, she might think.

But no, the one mother in the movie who has a speaking part is portrayed as kindly and concerned for the animal, although she doesn't want her children to touch it (understandable, considering it's a possum playing dead).

Now, the traits of the villain I have described could easily also apply to a high-powered male executive. So why don't they? What is it that makes the villain perfectly cast (if such a term can apply to an animation) as a woman?

If you know me, you know that I don't generally consider myself a feminist. And you know that I don't rant on about discrimination against women. But sometimes, I still feel the need to speak out.

Not to put too fine a point on it, the way this woman is portrayed in this movie (and the way she is humiliated at the end) makes me think that the directors are threatened by competent, capable women and felt the need to bring them (or at least one) low.

It makes me sad that my little daughter (and my son) saw this humiliating portrayal of women and that strong women need to be brought down.