This movie takes place at the end of the 1880s and captures with a resonance of realism, how the American West in the time when horses were the means of transportation, and moving stock and cattle, as well as the Frontier...passed into history.  Monte Walsh (Tome Sellect)is a stubborn old "cowboy" used to driving herds up North and into Canada on a horseback.  The trouble is, the 20th Century
was approaching, and there were fewer assignments to drive live cattle across vast reaches for pay.  Corporate America was making inroads into the Frontier, and all was changing rapidly for the worse. Monte Walsh is so stubborn, he can not see the Woman in front of him, portrayed by the lovely Issabella Rossellini-who makes like a  Lady of Pleasure, but comes across as a Dame waiting for the right Man to marry her- and Walsh wastes the relationship by having dinners and intimacy with this lovely Lady who wants to be his Wife, but he resists throughout the movie.  Walsh attends  his best friends' wedding, cognizant that he really should be having his own wedding with Rossellini.  Walsh misses and wastes that opportunity.  By the time, he rides of for another adventure, his best friend is murdered in a General Store hold up gone terrible- murdered by a one time friend who panicked at the trigger- and thereafter,Walsh rides out to his Lady, when alerted by an old friend that "she's in a bad way...".  Sadly...she has passed away ...from consumption, and Walsh arrives in time to see the Doctor confirm her death, and the scene where Monte Walsh mourns for her while she lays in her bed, is really moving... heart wrenching. This scene alone is so touching, it reminded me how we take so much for granted in life, and it will do the same to you.
The movie does not glamorize violence, and that is quite prevalent in this film.  the violences shown is a product of the circumstances as they present themselves.  The movie reminds us of what we lost by 1980 and thereafter, when the Indians were decimated and excluded from this Land that was theirs, (although it never even shows an Indian on horse back),and the horse culture was pushed out of the way for cars.  We lost a vast, beautiful Frontier, a pristine prairie, we decimated the American Indians to our great detriment, lament, and we almost killed the Buffalo into extinction, and these days, we have lost everything, even our manners!
I'm reminded by this movie, how great we were as a Frontier Nation, but how hollow and shallow we have become as the manner-less, rude, selfish , unfeeling, uncaring Americans that we are today!  Monte Walsh is a movie for all time, and conveys the message that as Americans, we have stopped caring, and protecting the things that really matter in life.  We've become emotionless, manner-less creeps, I am sorry to say, and God does not reside in us anymore.  How sad!  This is a must-see movie for all.