There have been many movies made about the holocaust.  What does this movie add to what has already been said about the holocaust?  In my opinion, many such movies understandably and justifiably emphasize realism and factual represention of events.  Unfortunately, many directors do not have the skill to realistically depict hope under such circumstances.  For example, Spielberg's Schindler's List resorts to rather sophomoric narrative devices in its depiction of hope in the face of adversity.  When the list is first generated, we see Liam Neeson and Ben Kingsley desperately thinking of name after name of people to save.  There is a build-up that felt like a scene in the locker room of the underdog team before the big game, or the "you can do it" speeches given to someone who's failed at something in the past.  It is typical Spielberg and it makes you feel like cheering Schindler on.  And, in the end, when Schindler laments he should have saved more, there is a sense of artifice and overdramatization.  This was not the holocaust.  There was no cheering and overdramatization.  People were scared for their lives, alone, focused on self-preservation, acting in secrecy and desparation.  The mood of Schindler's List overall was certainly sad and the scenes "realistic", but I felt that Spielberg oversimplified and overdramatized the emotions and some events in order to emphasize hope.  It is this over-emphasis of hope that undermines Schindler's List, because it feels forced.  In The Pianist, no such simplification occurs.  This is an uncomprising, unflinching view of terrible events in one man's life that sustains hope for survival without phony plot devices and oversimplification.  It is somewhat documentary in style, without very much dialogue, special effects, or forced dramatization.  The events unfold simply, without artifice, and without prejudice.  If Spilzman died it would seem natural and expected given his circumstances.  The fact that he survives is exhilirating. This holocaust movie reveals the goodness in human nature in the face of the most terrible atrocities realistically and without compromise.  That has not been achieved in past holocaust movies very often or very succesfully..
The DVD itself is well designed.  The special features are interesting and revealing.  The video and sound transfers are excellent.