Somehow, the creative minds (and I use the term "creative" lightly) behind the WWF decided that their "talented" wrestlers could take some time away from their poorly choreographed, manly soap operas in the ring and pin down the "reel" world.  See No Evil was the first in this line with Kane landing the role of Jacob Goodnight, the film's hook and chain wielding psychopath with a huge ax to grind.  Kane is actually really good here and is really the film's best aspect.  The rest of it is strictly by the books slasher flick straight out of the eighties.

  The story is that, as a boy, Goodnight was horribly abused by his religious fanatic mother. Beaten and forced to sleep in a chick cage, Goodnight grew up into a hulking psycho with a twisted view of religion. He was take his victims and gauge out the eyeballs before dispatching them in one gruesome way after another.  One day, two cops respond to a report of screaming and when they break inside, they find a woman with both eyes torn out. Goodnight attacks and kills one of the officers while the other one shoots him.

  Fast forward fifteen years later and the surviving officer is now in charge of a juvie work release program and the first cleanup assignment is at a run down hotel slated to be demolished. Unfortunately for the teens and their ward, Jacob Goodnight is alive and well, taking up residence in the very same hotel where they are stayingand is itching to start up his mission once again.

  This movie is pretty bad. First off, the characters are all one-dimensional stereotypes who are so reprehensible that you not only want them to die and you don't care when they do. Secondly, the kills are telegraphed way before hand, robbing the viewer of any suspense and have all been done to death in better movies.  I also found my self wondering exactly who put this work release crew together. These kids are supposedly the "worse of the worse" yet they are sent to this massive old hotel with only two guards to watch over them?  Someone obviously did not think this idea thoroughly.  Also, while the idea of forcing a cell phone down a girl's throat may have look good on paper, the SFX execution did it no justice.

  I watched some of the Fan Reactions in the special features section on the DVD and found myself laughing at all the grown men saying that this was the scariest movie they had ever seen. What cave do they find these types of losers?  Watch Night of the Living Dead, Halloween, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, or The Strangers for a scary movie. This one isn't scary at all. The only reason I'm giving it two stars is because Kane was great and the eyeball collection is really gruesome.