I have been a horro movie fan for over 20 years.  I have seen all types of horror movies and have always been totally "in love" with any movie meant to scare a person.  I always find something to appreciate in a horror movie.

That being said, I would like to state that this is BY FAR, the BEST horror movie ever made.  I'm a little different than most "Dawn of the Dead" fans.  I just saw the movie this year(2004) for the first time and actually saw the re-make(also excellent, but in a different sense) first.  In fact, I liked the re-make so much, that I went out and bought the original immediatly.

This movie is great for so many reasons, I can hardly even begin.

First, this movie contains some of the finest acting you will EVER see in a horror movie.  All of our characters are played by "no-name" actors, but they are far from bad and actually really good at making the viewer feel what the characters themselves are actually feeling.

Second, the plot is absolutly fantastic.  "Night of the Living Dead" was great.  I've seen it a million and a half times, since I was about five.  The movie contains a basic plot and it would have been very easy for Romero simply to continue that story, but with a different set of characters.  Oh no, not Romero.  He does give us a new set of characters(mainly because the originals die in "Night") and he does pick up the story close to when "Night" ends, BUT now we have some pretty comlpex side-plots going on.  We have a pregnant women; a black man, who is not wanted with the group at first and who also just killed another cop for barging into a project and shooting innocent people.  We have a "hot-shot" who feels he is "untouchable".  Basically, we have the world shortly after the zombie attacks have taken place.  We have people on TV, trying to explain why this is happening, when the funny thing is, who would be watching TV at a time like that????? But that is the effect that Romero is getting at.  He touches on issues similiar throughout the movie.

The gore in this movie is fantastic for the time it was shot.  Nowadays, it would be considered "cheesy" and I actually read another person's review here at amazon, stating that he found it cheesy.  GET A CLUE.  That same person also recommends watching "The Exorcist" or "A Nightmare on Elm Street" because this was not scary enough.  GIVE ME A BREAK, what in the world is scarier that the possiblilty of being secluded with 3 strangers in a world that has been taken over by zombies???

I love a "Nightmare on Elm Street", but please don't compare this movie to that.

Seriously, and not to sound too cliche, the worst part about this movie is that it ends.  I wish it were like 7 hours longs, because it is so much fun to watch.

In conclusion, I know this review is probably very rambled and out-of-order, but when it comes to this movie, I am just get way too excited and can't stop talking.  There are so many more things I would like to say about this movie, but just can't think of.  All in all, if you are going to see or buy only 1 horror movie, buy this one!