After back-to-back viewings of the two versions, I was left with some distinct impressions of each. Clearly the 1996 Schlesinger version had the advantage of a much bigger budget, and was photographed with eventual large  screen presentation in mind. The wedding scene alone had to have cost as  much as did the entire original production. The original also left the  automobiles to the imagination, and the buggy ride to town was so clearly a  rear-projection shot that they shouldn't even have bothered. (Indeed, in  the 1996 version, they didn't bother, choosing to walk, instead.) I could  have done without the early special effects, the alpha and omega of which  boiled down to "look, the BBC gave us a zoom lens!"
On a more  elemental level, the 1996 version struck me as being considerably sanitized  for a different generation of viewers. The sets and, especially, the  people, seemed to be so much more neat and clean. This, in turn, made  Flora's self-imposed mandate -- to "tidy up" -- less urgent.  
In Schlesinger's reading, the Starkadder clan's violent, primal  tendencies were glossed over, as was the overt sexuality: we can't have  Rennet going into an insane heat in the mid-nineties, can we? And Brian  Blessed's Reuben imparted a sense of danger that Ivan Kaye's good-natured  oaf didn't even hint at. Indeed, all of the characters seemed to be painted  with less vivid colors, their eccentricities (even grotesqueries) toned  down for a more sensitive audience.
I don't know whether it was by  intent, but Sara Badell's Flora was a much more rounded and interesting  character than the smug, one-dimensional powerhouse portrayed by Kate  Beckinsale. Badell's Flora had real doubts and fears.
It could be a  question of timing. When the original production was filmed, the generation  that grew up with the sort of book Cold Comfort Farm (the novel) parodied  still made up a good chunk of the populace. Those viewers could be counted  upon to know that the Starkadder family wasn't intended to be  "real" but rather a caricature. By 1996, someone must have said  "this could be taken at face value, so we'd better tone it down."  
Still, the Schlesinger version told the story very effectively, and I'm  glad to have it on tape. But the original is chock full of atmosphere, and  on balance I'd say it was worth the long wait.