"Dear Mr.Vernon,
We accept the fact that we had to sacrifice an entire Saturday in detention for what we did wrong, and what we did was wrong but we think you're crazy for making us write a essay telling you who we think we are. What do you care? You see us as you want to see us. In the most simplest terms, the most convient defintions you see us a brain, an athlete, and a basketcase, a Princess, and a criminal. Does that answer your question? Sincerly yours, The Breakfast club." -One of the most remembered movie speeches ever.
My title should sum up my love of this movie. I saw it 2 years ago and have watched it at least 1 million times since then, i'm actually amazed my copy hasn't worn out. It stars the fabulous cast Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, and Ally Sheedy, as Andrew "The athlete", Brian "The Brain", John Bender "The criminal", Claire"The Princess", and Allison "The basketcase" respectively. The cast works fablously together and at times you feel you're right there with them. At first they can't go five minutes without arguing (especially Bender and Andrew) but by the end of the day they have laughed and cried and know each other in way no one else will ever know them. 
My only dissapointment with the dvd (and the reason why I didn't give it 5 stars) is because I was a bit dissapointed with the special features part of the dvd, While the production notes were nice I am dissapointed there were no trailer or deleted scenes (I know there must be some since I have heard Judd Nelson say they shot over 4 hrs worth of film and since there are 2 scenes that are in the tv version of the film but not in the dvd or Vhs release) My BIG HOPE (John Hughes and Universal pictures are you listening?!) is that for the 20th anniversary which is approaching is that there will be a special edition dvd released and the film be rereleased in theateres (PLEASE NO REMAKE!!) I would LOVE a Sequel made but unfortunately I think the "Brat pack" label unfairly bestowed on the actors messed that up but hey we fans can dream right?