Not history. A powerful tale of tragedy & a man who helped where he could. Robin Williams gets my applause for portraying this complex character, a serious role, even brutally interrogated. Jakob also tried to lighten the spirits of ghetto imprisoned Jewish friends. To save barber Kowalsky (Bob Balaban) from attempted suicide he says he has a secret radio and gives reports of hope. The news passes throughout the ghetto like fire. Additional fake news lifts morale, provides ghetto hope, changes lives, all while Jakob also performs acts of human kindness and helps friends enrich life in death's face. His fake reports end Jew ghetto suicides.

Jacob hides a girl of 10, Lina (Hannah Taylor-Gordon) while the entire ghetto hears radio rumors. The Jews want more and more news to bolster their faith and inspire hope. All the while, people are being trained out, like Lina's parents, in the tragic events of "The Holocaust." This film perhaps shows what the average man/woman felt, and how they dealt with the unspeakable horror of their time and life. Cast is filled with award winning stars, most noted in the listing material.

View this movie not as another documentary of the WWII times, but of one man's wartime effort to make life something bearable. There is some humor amid the primary story of tragedy. Jakob need to embellish his news gets him caught up in improvisation such as explaining "American tanks have a 'clean' sound." Yes, Jakob's lies were just attempts to life spirits, remove thoughts from the horror, and provide hope.

For the viewer, Jakob does not trivialize the Holocaust, as proved by the ending scenes, which will send your heart's emotions on a whirlwind roller-coaster ride. You will cry, laugh, feel despair then joy, love, hate, and perhaps even become inspired by a group of people who determined to LIVE in the face of death. As realistic as "Holocaust (1978)" the series.

Wonderful sets, costumes and props. Takes you right back to the 1940s Polish ghetto (hopefully never duplicated for real). Rated PG in Canada, but it has some horrific scenes. Maybe not for kids.
Subtitles and CC available. A good special feature, "Making-Of" Featurette, should be watched prior to the main film. DVD side A is Widescreen, B is Full screen.