Almost two years ago, my daughter went to a rescue organization to adopt a dog.  She found a sweet, but shy, 15 lb. female mixed breed who had been owner surrendered for various reasons.  Her background information suggested that she'd been living in the backyard of a non-english speaking family, and had never been socialized.  Of course, my daughter thought she could bring this dog out of her shell by giving her a good home and taking her along when visiting friends.  The dog quickly became a nightmare with a fear-based aggression that my daughter and I were at wits-end to control.  On walks, she would go berserk if someone jogged by, another dog was around, or (heaven forbid) a garbage truck was on the street.  She even took a chunk of fur out of our good friend's sweet-natured shih tzu when we tried to introduce them.  She also "protected" her food and toys, and paced around my parrot's birdcage like a preditor.  My daughter consulted several "trainers" in the area, all of whom told her that fear-based aggression is nearly impossible to overcome and would take a great deal of time, possibly one to two years, to see improvement, if at all.  She was basically discouraged from keeping this dog, so she brought it back to the rescue organization two weeks after having brought her home.  She was truly devistated.

Since that time, we both adopted dogs from rescue.  Her dog, an 11 lb. female chihuahua mix, and mine, a 15 lb. female terrier mix, had none of the issues that were exhibited by the first failed rescue dog.  There were issues, however.  The chihuahua would guard the door and bark like crazy if people walked by.  The terrier was a pain to walk at the nearby park where there are more ground squirrels than she could possibly count.  She would pull so hard on her leash that I finally stopped taking her there during our walks.

Then, I discovered Cesar Millan during a guest appearance on Martha Stewart's talkshow.  I was so intrigued by his dialogue on dog behavior that I watched his television show.  My daughter and I have applied his techniques on both of our dogs to great success.  The chihuahua no longer 'owns' the door at her house, and I am now the "calm-assertive leader" on our walks.  We now walk the park without any pulling -- even when the squirrels run across our path!

We have since watched all of the Dog Whisperer episodes.  Cesar's common sense approach to dog behavior has really opened our eyes.  Unfortunately, common sense isn't so common.  You cannot apply human behavior to a dog, it just doesn't compute.  They are pack animals with an observable social structure.  While most people are aware of this fact, we just don't grasp the significance with our own pet dogs.  It is my hope that dog owners everywhere can learn to practice calm-assertive leadership with their "pack".  I only wish that we'd had this information BEFORE adopting the first rescue dog.  We really feel that we could have made a positive difference in this animal had we known the "exercise, discipline, affection" rule.  Our approach of "affection, affection, exercise, only served to make her worse.

Thank you Cesar, for teaching us how to better relate to our dogs.  They are such a joy!