Wow!  Once John Wayne slipped out of John Ford's control he started demonstrating a penchant for picking really bad Westerns.

While not as bad as "The War Wagon" or "The Sons of Katie Elder," this Western is fraught with enough problems that it is transformed from the popcorn Western it was intended to be into a total abusrdity.

The film is set in Texas in the year 1843, and....  Whoa there, pardner!  1843 you say?  The weapons, hat, boots, and basic clothing John Wayne's character is wearing weren't even invented/designed/conceived of yet in 1843.  But what about Texas itself?  It was hardly so settled and Anglicized in 1843.  Anglo settlement in East Texas started little more than a decade earlier, and the so-called Lone Star Republic had been in existence only since 1836.  That's hardly enough time for the American-style "Riverboat" town of Galveston to have fully developed.  The Mexican Port of Galveston had been established only in 1825, and while it served as the capital of the Republic of Texas after 1836 and was a bustling port-of-entry for all sorts of people coming in to Texas, in 1843 it still would have looked more like a Mexican town than the Mississippi-style Riverboat town the film depicts.

Then there is Nehemiah Persoff's character of Graile.  As leader of the Comancheros, Graile has a ranch/hideout in a West Texas valley (clearly intended to be the Llano Estacado).  In a conversation with Wayne's character of Ranger Jake Cutter, Graile claims to have found the valley some thirty years earlier and settled it.  That would have been around 1813, which is highly unlikely.  Since its beginning in 1716, Spanish/Mexican settlement in Texas huddled around the Rio Grande River.  The Spanish were as interested in eliminating the Comanche as the Anglos were, and a lone "bandit" making his way among the Comanche in the Llano Estacado to establish a huge ranch would have been almost unthinkable.  Even if it were possible, to raise a daughter (Ina Balin's character of Pilar Graile) in West Texas of the 1820s and 1830s would not have produced a woman who speaks flawless English and slips in and out of upper-crust Anglo society unnoticed, as Pilar does on the Riverboat at the beginning of the film.  Graile would have raised a Spanish-speaking daughter who lived a traditional life and never left home.

The basic story of the film is good enough for a fun Western and would have made a decent film had at least some of the anachronisms been addressed.  For example, had it been set immediately after the Civil War (say just before the Medicine Lodge Treaty of 1867) instead of in 1843, it still would have been absurd, but at least believable enough that one could suspend belief and start to enjoy it.

As it is, we can only shake our heads in wonder as to what John Wayne was thinking when he signed up for this film.