I saw Thelma and Louise for the first time in December of 2009. I found the first viewing so compelling that not only did I view the deleted scenes and alternate ending, over the next several days I also watched it through both commentaries, then the whole movie two more times again. Less than a hand full of times in my life have I ever even cared to watch a movie more than once.

One reason I avoided it for all these years is that I think I had always envisioned T&L as perhaps a modern female equivalent Butch Cassidy, et al, type of bad girl shoot-em-up, or maybe some anti-male, female rampage-to-the-end. It's not that at all. Two otherwise middle class, middle-of-the-road, fairly attractive, rather uptight, southern women in their late-thirties who are best friends decide to take a weekend vacation trip together, ostensibly to get a much needed break from their respective less-than-fulfilling relationships.

Before ever arriving at their destination, things start to go wrong, terribly wrong, with the resultant desperado flight into oblivion that is a direct result of 1) being female in a subtly but pervasively misogynistic society, 2) making poor, but crucial, decisions as events unfold, and 3) an underlying history that becomes alluded to along the way, directly resulting from 1) and contributing significantly to 2).

I found the film score quite fitting throughout, especially the instrumental segues and interludes, which added a moody, melancholy vibe. And visually, much of the cinematography was quite striking, especially as they neared The End. (The last part was shot in the Canyonlands of Utah I believe it was.)

I think what I really liked about it was how the two women metamorphosed from "who they were" to "who they became" in their short but epic journey.

That said, though I do see metaphors within the story that are worthy of contemplation, I don't think this is some "feminist manifesto" or that there is any hidden "moral" to the story, and I appreciate many of the points put forth in some of the negative reviews here. I simply found it highly entertaining fiction, as any good movie experience should be.

There are definite "flaws." (Hence, the four stars instead of five.) Some supporting rolls seemed a bit mis-cast (or, more accurately, grossly mis-acted). Periodically there are off-the-wall things going on in the background that just don't add up. There is at least one scene that simply wouldn't have happened in the "real world," and at least one scene that seemed put in just to add comic relief. All of which gives it a quality that I find makes the whole thing a bit surreal. On the other hand, overall the "flaws" didn't bother me much, and in some respects the whole surreal quality added a little something that in its absence might've made T&L less than what it turned out to be.