I am not a film-buff and I don't much care for movies. I see maybe 3 to 5 movies a year, most of them on DVD at home. Years can go by without my even stepping foot into a movie theater. That said, I love this movie and have seen it thirty dozen times at least. I'm not saying it's a good movie; I don't know enough about movies in general to determine that. But it came out just at the right time for me: I was a sophomore/junior in college and was just beginning to deal with some of the same post-grad/career/relationship issues the characters were dealing with right after their college graduation. I identified with each of them, even if just a little bit. (I have to add, because it was important to me at the time, that the clothes were to-die-for. As a poor, not-well-dressed student I remember coveting Leslie's and Jules' wardrobes intensely, and they represented the best of trendy fashion for that period.) Still, there are some things that just don't compute. Why did the film makers decide to use Georgetown University? And how could party animals Billy and Jules EVER have passed a single class, let alone graduate from a school like that? This is not "Party State University" like the school I graduated from. Georgetown has "standards." I don't see how could they have even gotten in to that school. Since they had to film the campus scenes at the University of Maryland, why couldn't they have just used that school rather than Georgetown? It would have been more believable. Jules must have a few decent, undamaged brain cells as she apparently was recruited into a high-profile, high-paying job at a bank right out of school. Nerdy, awkward Wendy Beamish doesn't fit into the rest of the crowd. IRL, she might have been friendly with Ally Sheedy's character, Leslie, but I have no idea what it is she has in common with the rest them that keeps her in the core of the group. IRL, they would have considered her hopelessly uncool and dorky and would have had nothing to do with her. But, of course, this isn't IRL. Which is just as well because Kirby's storyline -- stalking a beautiful woman he admits to being obsessed with -- wouldn't have lasted 5 "real life" minutes. He'd be hauled into court and would have a restraining order against him. Nevertheless, even with all its faults, the film still brings back a sense of nostalgia for those times, even with all the drama and trauma.