This is an excellent rendering of these episodes.  They are crisp and crystal clear, and I notice details I never did notice in the original run -- I love Ness's leather wastebasket!  There was one little bit of sound dropout, but it was not severe and I was still able to catch the dialogue.

I watched "The Untouchables" in its original run in the late 1950s and early 1960s.  I was hooked, and it became my favorite show.  I have always been a history buff, and this series led me to explore the history of the 1920s, including reading Eliot Ness's book from which the series was made.  I discovered that there had been liberties taken, but the fictionalized book account and the fictionalized series led me to read the real history of the past in authoritative, well-annotated histories.  The original pilot, which showed on Westinghouse Desilu Playhouse, then was stitched together into a two-hour movie for theatrical release under the title "The Scarface Mob," is wonderfully rendered.  I had my memories refreshed -- it has been nearly fifty-three years since I have seen it -- and realized in this latest viewing that the story was quite risque for television in 1959, with such scenes as Barbara Nichols almost completely baring her boobs in Brandy LaFrance's dance routine and the near-rape of Eliot Ness's fiance by two Capone men.

Sure, the book was embellished, and the series took liberties, and it is interesting to note that, in the credits, the series is said to be based on the "novel" of that title.  I think these days we would call it a non-ficiton novel.  But the series was not to be taken as documentary but as a morality play.  We saw the excess and ostentation of the mobsters, which led nowhere but jail or death.  We saw their callousness, their greed, their ruthlessness.  And set against that was the vigilance, honesty, integrity, incorruptibility, and courage of Eliot Ness and his crew.  The mobsters had the money, but it was integrity, courage, and incorruptibility which led to an exemplary life worth living, and to true love as we see in the tender scenes with Eliot and his fiance, Betty.

Robert Stack set a standard and created a mold which has been followed in other series which have themselves become classics, including Jack Lord's Steve McGarrett in "Hawaii Five-0."  Both Stack's Ness and Lord's McGarrett were characterized as unemotional, unfeeling, stolid, but that was not the truth.  We do see both Ness and McGarrett smile, joke with their men, and show empathy for innocent victims as well as showing anger and pain when colleagues die.  In both series, we have an intelligent, tenacious leader and a small band of incorruptible agents.  Both "The Untouchables" and "Hawaii Five-0" were criticized for excess violence, but both showed that, for one thing, violence begets violence, and for another, we need people who will stand up to the violence of the mobsters, gangsters, and murderers.  The outlaws' violence must often be met by deadly force.

Besides, Robert Stack had the most penetrating eyes of any man on television.  When he turned those headlights on a suspect, you knew the game was indeed afoot and that Ness was going to get that hood!