The star of Bulworth is Warren Beaty. Not only as the title character, but co-writer, producer, and director of a film that for all exstensive purposes, should not get made in today's modern P.C. (pretend un-P.C.) Hollywood climate. As a writer is where Warren really shows his talent, creating a quick, rich, unrelenting script that is at times satire, comedy, and political anthem all at once. 
Bulworth is the name of central character Jay Billingsly Bulworth, a California Democrat who has recently forsaken his long-standing leftist beliefs for the sake of reelection in 1996. When we meet Bulworth, he is suffering somewhere between a nervous breakdown and a crisis of conscious over his new path and life which eventually leads him to arrange his own assasination. When that assasination fails to occur on time, Bulworth, forced to continue his routine, begans to publicly unravel his reputation and political career by speaking truths about the state of modern affirs and politics. Essentially telling a black church that promises made in the wake of the L.A. riots were no more than photo-ops, and that we were unimportant because they didn't contribute money to his campaign.
Eventually, Bulworth begins to enjoy his new-found frankness, telling a bunch of Hollywood Moguls (in a wonderful scene by a lamenting star from the old system) that they made garbage and were only on his stop because they were "Jews". Thus continues his travels as he makes friends with several ghetto-females from South Central, one of which (Halle Berry) he begins to fall in love with despite her somewhat shady secret. Before long, with a new leash on life, Bulworth regrets the decision to take his life, and tries to undo the assasination, all the while watching his new political approach have a startling positive affect at the polls. 
Bulworth mainly consist of decidly leftist beliefs (almost socialistic) which may turn off political opposites. But the theme of both the failure of modern politics, as well as the aching loss of black leadership is one that should be appreciated by all. When you throw in the great laughs and touching views of an elder statesman of Hollywood, with a wonderful soundtrack featuring Ice-Cube, Public Enemy, Mack 10 and others, what you are left with is a completely unique and enjoyable film experience.