Points about this video:

Violence:

  While this movie certainly earned its R rating, it's not as violent as I feared it would be.  It's not on the level of "Pulp Fiction," even in the unrated version.  There are a few fistfights and gunfights and the infamous rape scene, but all of these scenes are relatively brief, and they aren't more explicit than necessary.  You'll cringe a few times, but you won't have to watch through your fingers.

Acting:

  The acting in "Derailed" is fine.  But even though I love Jennifer Aniston, I have to agree with some critics who say she was a bit miscast.  This is not at all a criticism of her acting.  Her persona just didn't fit at any point during the movie.  She did a great job with what she had, and she proved beyond a doubt that she can handle dramatic roles, but it just wasn't the right role for her.

Plot and script:

The plot is fine; you can imagine something like this really happening.  There are numerous technical mistakes in the film, but these can be overlooked.  The characters do dumb things, but this, too, is something you can usually overlook in a film.  But what you can't overlook is when characters do things that just don't make sense, things that you can be fairly certain no one would do in reality.  That's where it snaps you out of your suspension of disbelief.  Instead of wanting to yell at the screen, "No, don't do that!" you want to scream, "Oh, right!  Like as if he'd do THAT."

Editing:

The editing on this film is a mess.  Some scenes that would have really helped explain the characters' motivations are cut, and other scenes that seem to have no purpose are left in.

DVD features:

They could have done a lot more with this one.  There is not a director's commentary track, which would have been really nice.  Instead, all you get for "special features" are three cut scenes, none of which are explained for why they were originally included or why they were cut.

Summary:

This isn't a great movie, but the story is creepy enough and the acting by Aniston, Owen, and Cassel good enough that it's worth watching.  I didn't see the plot twists coming, and that by itself made the film more enjoyable for me.  I bought the movie used, without having seen it before, and I'm glad to have it.  But I'm also glad I didn't pay the full new price.