Il postino is the film adaption from the novel of Chilean author Antonio Sk&aacute;rmeta.  the Basic plot is almost identical. Apart from the fact that in the movie Mario is 30 year old Italian rather than 18 year old Chilean boy who worships Nobel lauterate poet Pablo Neruda.

Due to the change of background, the movie is almost non-political in comparison to the novel that describs the advent of horrible dictatorship of Pinochet. Although there are a couple scenes that remotely criticize allegedly right wing politician, who call D'Annunzio as "His Poet", as well as huge communist demonstraion scene in the end that beautifully potrayed in Black and White.
Since Mario doesn't want to follow his father's vocation as fisherman, he spends most of his time doing practically nothing. It was late 40s or early 50s in southern Italy where unemployment rate was higher than the rest of Europe ,thus most able young men tended to leave their hometown for either to Turin ,Milan, Germany or the United States.By chance, Mario obtains the position as a postman in a local post office . In truth , it's special type of postman who exclusively delivers mail for the sake of world famous poet Pablo Neruda who recently exiles in Italy. At first , Mario seems to be interested in the sobriquet of Pablo Neruda "Poet of Love and Women",however , a bit by bit thorugh contacting  Pablo Neruda , Mario begins to change and opens his eyes to the power of poem and the world he could not see. The slow change is portrayed so naturally by late actor Massimo Troisi. Some will say his acting is slightly passive.But it's his style; a bit mumbling , hesitating , stammering as if he ie a bit mentally challenged.As many people pointed out it is not a romantic comedy,but it was heart warming movie that show how friendship and poem can change a person who otherwise remains passive and never try to change his life. Yes, Poem is his savior. The last scene (demonstration scene) was truly poignant and resounding.