Every now and then a book or a show about vampires comes along and cuts with a sharp knife through the grotesque mass of cliches the vampire industry's mythos has become.  We are treated, finally, to a phantasmagoria that does not insult our intelligence but makes harsh demands on our perceptive capacities and our capacity for sensitivity and sophistication.  It rewards us, in turn, with something that stirs up the unsettled debris at the bottom of our souls and ignites our cognitive powers at white hot intensity.
"Ultraviolet" is not for children and it is doubly not for children masquerading as adults.  It plays games with the mind that remind me of the superior gamesmanship of Patrick McGoohan's sublime series "The Prisoner".  A covert agency working in the British government and allied with forces in the Catholic Church is dedicated to hunting down and destroying vampires but the strange plots it uncovers show that the vampires are not mere street thugs or the charismatic pseudo-erotic devil-deities we behold in so much fiction or film today.  The vampires are Up To Something and the brief glimpses we get of that Something convey a preternatural chill that will disturb both our hearts and minds.
Gone are the raving lunatics and dope-fiend-like cariactures we've come to expect.  The vampires, when we encounter them, are truly bearers of something uncanny and alien, worthy of the best forays into the diabolic sublime in high european art.  They are handled with a marvellous degree of understatement that quietly emphasizes their non-human nature.  We are left doubting, through most of the series, who the real bad guys are.  Is the humanity the vampires seek to convey real or is a mask over something so non-human that cosmic dread can be the only response?
"Ultraviolet" is a profoundly mature and maturing work of art.  There are two sides to every story and Joe Ahearne, the creator and director, manages to find at least three until all sides resolve in a terrifying climax where all the philosophical and psychological reveries in the series are crowned with existential thunder.
Good and evil are fierecely opposed in this work but we must pass through a thousand ambiguities and confusions until we come to the end.
A great and stimulating work of art.  But sunglasses are not included. You'll have to bring your own.  If you so choose.