Whine, Moan & Complain! Listen: This is Not a Criterion Edition- it never went through the digital corrections that Criterion put their Kurosawa films though. Does it have glitches?- Yes, but not extremely so. On a big screen they might be a bit bothersome video-wise; but the American English 'version' here is well done (with Kurosawa's great sense of the vernacular & humor) with just a few minor problems in one place; and there is a bit of washiness 'fog' in the video, BUT: first off this film was made in Russia way back then- the equipment was not what we get today. That Kurosawa was story/plot line driven is Never more evident than here! No ONE else in the history of cinema would have even dared attempt (much less convince crew & actors) to withstand the rigors of filming under the conditions that this film was made under. NO ONE! The plot & acting carries this film (in my opinion Kurosawa never made a 'movie', he only made films) into the realm of one of his greats. He was & IS The master of camera use (here a bit less than other of his work due to budget & conditions), but who else would film in Winter, in Siberia, and still come out with a masterwork of a story? That you see a 'credit' for Roger Corrman (as distributor?) at the end says a Lot about who runs Hollywood, then, and Now for that matter. The Hollywood 'suits' could learn a lot from Kurosawa, especially today- he took classic novels by the best writers in Any language, and adapted them to his audience & milieu, rather than have the director act as story/plot creator and film-ographer. 90% + plus of the utter crap out there today is a result of that lack, that and the great fear of Hollywood execs to try anything new! PS: as always the casting & acting is first rate & NO stunt men were used-Kurosawa always demanded & Got the best from his crew & actors/actresses; a measure of the regard in which they held him. 'Dersu' is so believable you cannot believe he was not an actor. Only Kurosawa could have gotten TOHO & the Russians to fund this, as a story/setting, it would seem 'un-filmable', period.
What's missing of course is a Criterion Edition-Steven Prince 'commentary'- which I wish were on All of Kurosawa's works- those in themselves are an entire course in film making. So buy Dersu- it'll sit on your shelf along with the Seven Samurai if for no other reason that it will make you unafraid of going out there & do your best with any equipment, under absolutely Any filming conditions! Especially recommended for "Indies"!