It is sadly ironic for a stale, 129 minute production to be called The Express. Like most Hollywood sports biopics, the extraordinary life of Ernie Davis has been reduced to a bunch of clich&eacute; plot points, and thus extremely predictable; you could go into the movie knowing nothing about football and guess what's going to happen two hours later. Yet, the problem is not that Ernie Davis led a boring or miserable life, it's that the cinematic retelling of it makes it seem like it was. To put it bluntly, it's a director's failure.

The film kicks off depicting Ernie Davis as a child in the 40's, played by Justin Martin, who discovers his talent in running when he outruns a group of typical racist schoolyard bullies. From there, racism becomes the only recurring theme of the movie.

Fast forwarding many years later, the next scene depicts Davis, now played by Rob Brown, in his teenage years as he rises to the status of football sensation at his local high school in Elmira, N.Y. Sought after by many colleges due to his status,  Davis is eventually recruited by tough-but-reasonable coach Ben Schwartwelder (played by Dennis Quaid) into Syracuse College, who uses Davis's childhood inspiration Jim Brown (Darrin Dewitt Henson) to bait him in. From then on, despite facing racism everywhere, Davis helps the Syracuse Orangemen win the cotton bowl and ultimately become the #1 ranked team in the 1959 season.

Directed by Gary Fleder and adapted by Charles Leavitt, the film is packed to the brim with sport drama clich&eacute;s. Too-tough-but-kind-inside coach, check.  Fierce, racist, opposing teams who are violent, full of themselves and lack a sense of morality, check. In fact, the film goes so far to fulfill these clich&eacute;s that the directors have even fabricated material- Leavitt admits that the supposed 1958 game at Tar Heels Stadium in North Carolina, in which angry racist crowds chucked glass bottles and verbal abuse at the team, was inaccurate on all accounts.

Moreover, the supposed racial tension verses the Longhorns in the 1960 cotton bowl match was also pure fabrication. Bobby Lackey, quarterback for the University of Texas in the game depicted recalls: "How are you going to say the N-word in a football game and spit on somebody? Coach Royal would not have put up with that kind of behavior. It was a long time ago, but I know we shook hands and told him nice game and that his team deserved to win." Clearly, without any angry racist teams that actually played against the Orangemen, Gary Fleder had to resort to fabrication to get his point across, which certainly hurts the historical accuracy of the film.

It is worth noting that director Gary Fleder should be credited for the excellent chase sequences professionally shot with the hand camera- the shaky angles give the film one of its few realistic tinges. The only downside to that is that the angles aren't exactly groundbreaking or original- they only serve to remind the audience of better sport epics such as "Remember the Titans" or "Glory Road."

Rob Brown's performance as the near-saintly Ernie Davis is forgettable at best, but it's understandable as the weak storyline and script undermine his performance. The problem is, the movie won't let him be a real person, and thus nobody can relate to him. As one other critic put it, "It's the complaint many people have had about Superman over the years. If he never does anything wrong, and if nothing can stop him, then what's interesting about him?"

In stark contrast, Quaid's performance as Coach Ben Schwartzwalder is quite the opposite: although Quaid still suffers from a lame script and overdone clich&eacute;s, he still manages to shine as his character's underlying prejudices are brought forth and challenged by his relationship with Davis. In a memorable scene where he butts head with Davis, he manages to deliver this epic line:  "I must like winning a little more than I dislike black people."

For a movie that has "Remember the Titans" written all over, you would definitely expect more from The Express. Luckily, the solid performance given by Quaid and the intense action sequences are the film's saving grace. But for those who already have ESPN Classic or "Remember the Titans" on DVD, don't even bother.