After the success of Hammer's The Curse of Frankenstein in 1957, they decided to take the next logical step and remake Dracula. Released in 1958, Dracula (U.S. title The Horror of Dracula), reunited the very same cast and crew and The Curse of Frankenstein and created the formula that would carry Hammer's success throughout the 60's and 70's. Christopher Lee's portrayal of Dracula was so definitive that people pictured him in their minds when they thought of Dracula, a typecast that he was never quite able to escape. His Dracula--tall, dark, lips glossed with bright red blood--virtually revolutionized the horror film industry.
To update the film, Hammer used not only eye-popping Technicolor, but added the sexual element, not clearly pictured in previous versions. This was the first vampire film where the female victims actually seemed to be enjoying the process. Peter Cushing, as Van Helsing, compared vampirism to drug addiction, and Hammer furthered the theme into realms of disease and madness in later films.
The script, by Hammer's favorite screenwriter Jimmy Sangster, streamlined the key elements of the Bram Stoker novel, taking only a few liberties along the way. Probably the main change was Jonathon Harker, who knew the score from the start and arrived at Dracula's castle posing as a librarian, but intending to play the role of vampire slayer. This doesn't quite work out for him, and quickly swinging back into novel territory, he meets up with Dracula's three concubines.
Horror of Dracula is widely considered to be Hammer's best Vampire film. I'm not quite sure that I agree with this (give me Captain Kronos or Twins of Evil over this one any day...) considering that they built a whole genre starting with this film and took it in some wild and previously unheard of directions. It is Hammer's most faithful adaptation from an original work, and it's notable as the beginning of something big.
The DVD release has a few extras-not many and nothing I'd never seen before elsewhere. There is a notable mistake on the packaging. The woman on the back is Stephanie Beachum, in her role as Jessica Van Helsing in Hammer's Dracula: AD 1972, when they decided to bring the Count into the then "modern age." Ooops! Maybe whoever designed the case didn't actually watch the film.
The release seems somewhat minimal and casual, but it's definitely worth picking up. While I'm slightly disappointed with the lack of extras, (and by the cheesy packaging blurbs and picture mistakes), I am very grateful to be able to have it on DVD!