This is it folks, the one and only Re-Animator dvd that you should ever own, the Millennium edition. When I first placed this wonder in my DVD player my expectations were high and after watching the first 5 mins my expectations were more then satisfied, they were no where near the quality of this DVD. The picture quality is fantastic, with clean, crisp images and the colour tones are absolutely incredible (in 16x9 anamorphic YES!!!). You would think that this movie was only recently filmed and on a budget 30 times more then what Re-Animator cost. Then there is the audio, two surround options Dobly 5.1 and DTS 5.1 and the original mono mix for the real Re-Animator buffs. The two surround sound options are incredible with good use of the back speakers for music and sound effects (especially in the rufus re-animated scene). The audio is clean and clear and the seperate speakers are easily to hear. Also, the music only option is available so you can listen to the fantastic Pyscho influenced score comming out of all 5.1 speakers. PLUS, there are two full running commentaries from 1) Stuart Gordon and 2) Brian Yuzna, Jeffrey Combs, Barbara Crampton, Robert Sampson and Bruce Abbott which is a riot. The animated menus are wonderfully macarbe with all the glowing green that you could possibly put on one screen at a time. The second DVD is jammed packed with extras including deleted scenes (all in 16x9 anamorphic), interviews with Stuart Gordon, Brian Yuzna, Richard Band and Anthony Timpone and interactive story boards and a picture gallery AND even a music discussion with Richard Band AND a deleted scene. I can tell that a lot of time and effort and money went in to this edition and it is a must for anyone who loves this movie or just loves horror movies. Get it now and dig that cool flurescent green DVD case!! (One thing I forgot to put in my review was the fact that this movie has no region coding so anyone in the world can enjoy Re-Animator without having to worry about region codes! Bravo Elite!!)