Apparently Henry II was a bit of character from what little tittle tattle there was passed on to us down through the last millenium. Larger than life and now a movie star ! Henry II take a bow. For Henry II is the Lion in his  old age surrounded by scheming relatives not least his witty wife.  Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitaine turns her love and marriage with  Henry II, Peter O'Toole, into the verbal equivalent of a sword fight. Henry  II being more of a man than his namesake and distant relative Henry VIII  doesn't have her killed, rather he locks her up. Not you understand because  he doesn't like her, but because she tried to overthrow him in a rebellion.  Sparks fly when these two meet. 
"Eleanor: What would you have me  do? Give out? Give up? Give in? Henry: Give me a little peace. Eleanor: A  little? Why so modest? How about eternal peace? Now there's a  thought."
Theres a fine supporting cast of then theatrical players  now some well known faces of the movies. Theres Sir Anthony Hopkins as  Richard,
 "I am a poet, a warrior and I will be king"
  ,though his dad thinks him not so straight, for Richard though has a  defense,
 "So! The royal corkscrew finds ME twisted?". 
And  all this before dysfunctional had entered public vocabulary. Next is  Geoffrey, Duke of Brittany, played by John Castle, a strategist and willing  player of the game. 
Prince Geoffrey: "I know. You know I know. I  know you know I know. We know Henry knows, and Henry knows we know it.  [smiles] We're a knowledgeable family." 
Youngest of the brothers is  John Lackland, Nigel Terry of Excalibur fame.
"John: Poor John. Who  says poor John? Don't everybody sob at once! My God, if I went up in flames  there's not a living soul who'd pee on me to put the fire out! Richard:  Let's strike a flint and see." 
Oh but don't worry about John.  Knowing the result given in the History books won't stop you being tickled  by this film. Will the knives come out ? Let the show go on ! Enjoy it, by  the looks of it Henry did.  
"King Henry II: I've snapped and  plotted all my life. There's no other way to be alive, king, and fifty all  at once."