Remember that movie MIDNIGHT RUN from the late 80's with Robert DeNiro as the bounty hunter trying to duck the mob and bring a bailjumper back to LA?  THE RUNDOWN is a higher energy, slightly less entertaining remake of almost the same story.  Thankfully for us the audience there is not one boring moment in the movie and it is fun the whole way through.
Rock in this film plays Beck, a quoted "Retrieval Expert" who specializes in picking up collatoral from deadbeats or troublemakers who owe money, favors or whatever.  After a job goes sour, Beck demands out of the business so he can pursue his own future but his boss tells him he has one more job:  Travel to the Amazon, pick up his son Travis and bring him home.  Piece of cake right?  Sure it is.
Beck quickly finds the amazon a place not to be triffled with.  His destination is a gold mining town (slave labor camp) run by it's iron fisted ruler (Christopher Walken complete with bad guy hat).  The jungle, as his screw loose pilot tells him is full of poisonous animals and rebels and if thats not enough, Becks quarry Travis has got a motor mouth, who for the life of him can't keep his mouth shut after Beck makes it crystal clear, "your going home, no breaks".
That doesn't prove to be the case as Travis has gotten into trouble with Hatcher, Walkens character.  Hatcher knows Travis is on the verge of finding a rare idol that can be worth millions on the Black market.  Beck gets in the middle and helps keep the idol out of Hatchers hands and his hands on Travis so that he can't get away.
One thing about THE RUNDOWN is the things that surprised me.  First of all I'm not a big wrestling fan and I at first dismissed Rock as "a dumb wrestler".  I was wrong.  He was funny and kept the action for the most part real even though the stylized action in this movie is off the chart.  Seann William Scott as Travis also surprised me in that he was funny and had the skill to pull off the role.  It's roles like this that I hope make people forget he was in those turgid American Pie sequels.  In a rare move, Beck our hero avoids guns.  He tries to rely on his fists and skill to win.  Even after fights in the movie when he gets his hands on a gun, he casually discards it.
Rock is clearly the best of the new line of action star.  He's younger then Arnold, less stodgy then Seagal and is more likable then Cage.  When somebody out there said that Rock was selected as the most likly candidate as Arnolds replacement in the Terminator movies, I believed it.  Purists everywhere won't give him a chance, but I will, I bet he could do a great job in that role.  He certainly did here.