This is not your typical sci-fi movie, simply because the book on which this was based was written by the late Dr. Carl Sagan, Ph.D., a world-renowned professor of astronomy.

Don't expect green women seducing the captain of a starship, nor fist-fights with aliens (which is a bit ridiculous when you really think about it), nor aliens that are simply 'human in every way' except (for example): a) they have pointy ears and suppress their emotions, or b) they have a violent streak and have interesting foreheads, or c) they are short, have large ears, and are incredibly greedy.  Remove the ears, the unusual foreheads and the big ears and what do you have?  Just a variety of human beings -- those seeking emotional self-control and spiritual development, violent warrior-types and unethical, money-grubbing businessmen.

As much as I truly TRULY love other sci-fi series, virtually all the above aliens are bi-peds (two-legged) and are about as technologically advanced as humans are at that point in the future.

If another race of aliens were only a couple hundred years ahead of us militarily and technologically, they could blow humans out of the water if they chose to do so.  Why?  Because scientific knowledge increases exponentially and therefore with an ever-increasing increasing speed.  (Just look at what we human beings have learned in the last 50 years.)

Several people that I know that saw Contact did not understand beforehand that Carl Sagan was trying to depict how First Contact might REALLY happen with a far more advanced, non-violent species that wished to communicate with us, with as little trauma as possible.  Some of my acquaintances were disappointed that there were very little special effects.

The bottom line:  This is an absolutely wonderful movie for those who have the patience and intelligence to appreciate a believable, insightful film which: a) thoughtfully depicts the individual characters who make the discovery, and b) also explores how different groups of people throughout the world might react to a First Contact that the entire planet suddenly becomes aware of.

Expect outstanding, "slower-paced-yet-fascinating!", subtle, insightful writing and first-class acting.  Expect realism, not computer-generated aliens, nor an excessive reliance on special effects, nor a predictable, canned Hollywood script, nor a predictable Hollywood ending.

Human reality is rarely predictable and is often both 'tumultous and disappointing' on the one hand, but also 'amazing and beautiful beyond words' on the other.  Definitely 5 stars!!!