I'll echo the other reviews regarding the Blue Underground 2-disc special edition.  The quality of this dvd is outstanding!  The digital transfer of both audio and video is first-rate, and really brings out the best of this great movie.  After not seeing this film for many years, the aerial scenes are even better than I remembered (THX/DTS sound definitely helps), and arguably better than Top Gun (no studio F-14 cockpits - real cockpits in the air with real pilots).  Check out the featurettes to find out how close some of the aerial close-ups really got!  Being a former aviation ordnanceman, I felt a surge of pride seeing the red-shirts bustin out some serious munitions.  Keep in mind - in most films where the military aircraft are real, all the ordnance you see is not.  Since most moviegoers don't know the difference, filmmakers don't bother to alter the inert markings on the bombs and missiles (they'd have to do it in post-production, because the Navy may let them film, but altering ordnance is a no-no).  Likewise, any firing of ordnance is simulated with special effects.  Obviously, this is due to safety and cost, and directors' perceptions of what it "should" look like.  I guess the policy was a little different in 1980, because I see a surprising amount of live stuff in The Final Countdown, including live, fused, Mk-82 bombs, a real Sidewinder missile shoot and what certainly appears to be live 20mm cannon fire from an F-14.  That was near impossible to fake in 1980, especially considering the quality of storm effects in the movie.  Of course, they cut to the zero using a smoke generator, or the model plane bursting into flames, but everything you see on the F-14's before that is genuine.  I don't think they made blanks for the M61 Vulcan then, so that burst of smoke means rounds were going down-range (if you look closely frame-by-frame you can see about 2 or 3 projectiles zipping out, although the camera angle would make any water impacts out of frame).  Apparently, much of the carrier ops filmed were part of a live Navy exercise, and the film crew was just in the right place at the right time to get some great footage.  It is rare you see that kind of stuff outside of a serious military or war documentary, especially as a major part of the plot in a feature film with top-notch photography!  Although there is certainly some movie magic in The Final Countdown (some of it not so magical anymore), what makes it a remarkable and classic film is the amount of it that is real aircraft, real military operations, real sailors and pilots and "aviators", and really cool flying.  This dvd was well worth the wait, and thanks to the other reviewers here, I avoided the Pacific Family Entertainment version.  Thanks Blue Underground!