Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol Blu-ray Review

Year: 2011 | Rating: PG-13 | Runtime: 2 HR 13 MIN
Aspect Ratio: 2:40.1 | Video Resolution: 1080P
Audio: Eng. TrueHD, Fre. DD 5.1, Spa. DD 5.1, Port. DD 5.1 | Subtitles: English, English SDH, French, Spanish, Portuguese

Director: Brad Bird
Starring: Tom Cruise, Paula Patton, Simon Pegg, Jeremy Renner, Michael Nyqvist, Josh Holloway, Anil Kapoor, and Tom Wilkinson

Film Rating: 3/5
Video Rating: 5/5
Audio Rating: 5/5
Extras Rating: 2/5
Overall Rating: 4/5

Somewhere between James Bond and Jason Bourne is Ethan Hunt and his IMF Team keeping the world safe from mad men with diabolical plans.  The Mission: Impossible franchise has run the gauntlet as far as successes and failures go; I thoroughly enjoy the original Mission: Impossible, I despise the sequel, and I'm relatively indifferent to the third film aside from its fantastic villain in the form of Philip Seymour Hoffman.  The franchise returns to the screen five years after M:I-3 and an entire fifteen years after the original hit theaters in May of 1996.  After the somewhat disappointing box office returns for M:I-3 and the lackluster performance of Cruise's Knight and Day there was talk of Tom Cruises's days as an action star being over.  Ghost Protocol proved to be just the boost Cruise's career needed as M:I-4 went on to be the most successful film in the franchise so far.

Mission: Impossible Ghost Protocol isn't my favorite film of the franchise but it is certainly the best of the sequels.

While Ghost Protocol is a relatively good film where it really gets to shine is on Blu-ray. It is simply put one of the best demo discs you can add to your collection as it is as close to video and audio perfection as you're about to find.  I can't find one technical flaw with picture quality.  Black levels are inky across the board, flesh tones are accurate, and I spotted no instances of edge enhancement or artifacting even during the tricky sand storm sequence which could have been a disaster.

My only gripe with the video presentation of M:I-4 has nothing to do with the actual disc released, which again is fabulous, but concerns the fact that there isn't even an option to purchase a version of Ghost Protocol that includes the astonishing IMAX footage.  After the success of releasing The Dark Knight, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, and Tron: Legacy with their IMAX footage intact I'm dumbfounded by the studio and director Brad Bird's decision not to at least give fans a choice to purchase an IMAX version.  The advertising for the theatrical release of Ghost Protocol leaned heavily on the IMAX footage angle and received a lot of praise critically especially for the Burj Khalifa tower sequence which was edge gripping to say the least.  The lack of IMAX footage obviously didn't affect my score of Ghost Protocol but it's still disappointing that the nearly 30 minutes of IMAX footage was unceremoniously left out.

Like the video transfer the 7.1 Dolby TrueHD soundtrack is also demo worthy.  From as soon as the Paramount mountain disappears the audio assault begins; gun shots, explosions, car crashes, and everything in between will give your surround speakers and subwoofer a real workout.  Not only does the track come alive during the many action sequences but even during the calmer moments the track is full of subtlety and precision.  The revamped theme sounds better than ever, the Dubai dust storm is an auditory tour de force, and the fight scenes pack plenty of punch no pun intended.  Even with all the action the dialogue is always crystal clear and the front sound stage is well balanced.  Ghost Protocol simply sounds amazing; even with the volume turned up high it never gets out of control and you shouldn't have to fidget with the volume level at all.

The special features included on this release are a little light surprisingly with all the extras being found on the main disc with the second disc being a DVD copy of the film.  An UltraViolet Digital Copy & a normal Digital Copy are also housed on the DVD copy.  Four  HD documentaries of varying length are included; Heating Up in Dubai (17 min), Vancouver Fisticuffs (12 min), The Sandstorm (3 min), and Props (3 min).  Also included are 15 minutes of Deleted Scenes with optional commentary with Director Brad Bird also presented in HD.  Strangely there is no feature commentary with Brad Bird which seems like a glaring omission.

This newest entry into the Mission: Impossible franchise is the best film of the franchise since the original but is easily the best Blu-ray of the series.  The included special features are a little light but that can be overlooked because of the amazing video and audio presentation which is flawless.  Inclusion of the IMAX footage would have been a nice bonus; I simply don't understand why it wasn't included but perhaps a future Blu-ray release will include it.  Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to enjoy Tom Cruise's best film in almost a decade before he "self destructs" again.