This performance was indeed classic Elton John.  The concert is some three hours long.  EJ tells the audience, "We're going to be here a long time. We had to throw out 20 songs."  Considering songs like "All the Young Girls Love Alice", "Roy Rogers", "Hercules", "Holiday Inn", "Better Off Dead", and other deep album cuts made the set list, it leads me to wonder which songs got cut from the list?  If the songs that were cut were his hits since the 90s then that's fine with me.  But I certainly would have enjoyed more from "Goodbye Yellowbrick Road" and "Captain Fantastic".

It is an amazing performance with extended versions of most of his great songs.  "Mad Man Across the Water" has some jazz-like piano from EJ, as does "Benny and the Jets" and "Rocket Man".  "Rocket Man" is over 13 minutes long as EJ and Davey Johnstone get bluesy with a piano-guitar thing.  My personal favorites from Yellowbrick Road, "Saturday Night's Alright..." and "Funeral for a Friend/Love Lies Bleeding" are the icing on the cake.

A reviewer or two have complained about the Brooklyn Youth Chorus kids.  I thought they were fantastic.  These kids ranging in age from maybe 10 years old through high school age could sing.  There are dozens of them, and they are stationed above and behind the band.  I found it kind of awkward that young kids are belting out "better off dead...better off dead" and "bitch...bitch".  But it was cool that these kids were told to relax and have a great time out there as they were very lively and spontaneous, rockin' and groovin' to tunes decades older than they are.

The visual was fantastic and the audio almost top knotch.  EJ's piano was recorded better than any other live performance, but once yet again Johnstone's guitar is considered a back ground instrument, for the most part.  During the extended jam in "Rocket Man" he's echoing EJ's piano chops on acoustic but you barely hear it (When he went in electric he was more audible).  His solos in "Love Lies Bleeding" are barely audible---aggrevating.  When I saw this band around '80 or '81, I remember that Davey Johnstone's guitar was big time for 3 hours.  You heard every note, if memory serves.  They were a rock band that night, starting with his chops on "Funeral/Love Lies Bleeding" to open that show.  Only the "Barcelona" DVD is Johnstone a bit livelier in the mix.  My other miner complaint is the bottom end in the audio is lacking.  You hear bass but you don't really feel it.  The kick drum should be thumping me in the chest, and it's just there.  Otherwise, like I said, EJ's vocals and piano has never been recorded better.  Solid full audio mix with the kids as well.

Cameramen, throughout the event, located several celebrities in the audience, such as Michael Caine, Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne, Bill Clinton (minus Hillary---if he had a date, you couldn't see her), Elizabeth Hurley, and Anne Hathaway.

The concert is split over 2 discs, and the old live footage is split over the same 2 discs, which is odd.  I know I have several complaints for a 5-star review.  It's still a great buy, and a lot of product for the money.  It must have been a phenominal night, and I heartily recommend the purchase of this show, even if you already own "One Night" from MSG.  This is a superior performance over that one.  There are no musical guests on Elton 60 to ruin the classics---a very good thing.  What a treat this was to experience.