My husband and I have spent many a year over the last decade where cable TV was beyond our means.  Not to mention, a few of those were also spent without a DVD player as a result of the PS2 that we were using breaking at a time when we could not afford to replace it.  Needless to say, the only movie-based entertainment we had access to came in the form of our old tried and true VCR and VHS tapes.

I had worked at Blockbuster Video MANY years prior and still had in my collection a copy of Welcome to Mooseport.  While working for Blockbuster, and dealing with either constantly watching the trailers or children's films while on the clock, I learned to appreciate any movies that I could see over and over again without wanting to shoot myself in the face.

This movie was one of the two most watched films during the dark days of relying on the VCR to keep us sane.  (The other was Hope Springs-another awesome movie that we have never gotten sick of.)  Not only is the movie funny in ways that only repeated watching will reveal, there are certain scenes that are laugh out loud funny, even when just quoting them over dinner or to friends.

My favorite moment in the film comes when Burt Langdon is calling Eagle over the phone to see if he needs help with his campaign for mayor.  He is trying to get Monroe's attention and makes a noise like "O-Ho-O."  The look on his face is funny as heck and completely priceless.

Also, I love the fact that the movie is one that we can have on at any time of the day, even with our two year old awake and wandering the house.  It is a great family film and the chemistry between Gene Hackman and Ray Romano is something really special.  The rest of the cast play their roles to a "T" as well, giving it a fully-rounded out feeling.  You don't feel as if you are watchign a movie.  Rather, you feel like a priviledged resident of Mooseport Maine.

One last thing: The town itself is as much a character as anyone in it.  I doubt there is anyone who can watch the movie without wanting to move to Mooseport.  I loved the film, and I continue to love it each time I see it (and since I am probably on the thousandth or so time, I think the staying power of the film speaks for itself).