Ok, this is going to be a tough one. I am an unabashed fanatic of the original movie which made such an impact on me when I saw it at the tender young age of 9. It remains my all time favourite movie, albeit it dated and slightly camp. So when I heard that it was being remade by Wolfgang Peterson I was alternately pleased and apprehensive. Pleased because 30 years later there is so much more one can do with specials effects and CGI and apprehensive because who would fill the roles played so admirably by Shelley Winters, Gene Hackman and especially STELLA STEVENS?.  Fortunately the film makers realised the original cast fit their characters perfectly and that the film is a cult classic so they opted for an entirely new set of characters and a newer modern cruise liner set in the present.

That said its quite ironic that in the opening credits it states "based on the novel by Paul Gallico" when the only thing it has in common with the original novel and book is 1.tidal/rogue wave 2. cruise liner gets turned upside down...surely "inspired by" would have been more apt. Ok onto the film itself; it certainly is a feast for the eyes the pre capsize sequences show a cruise liner of great beauty and outstanding sets. The capsize sequence is visually spectacular and very realistic and the post capsize sequences are definately gripping and well done.

But and its a big but..there is absolutely no depth and any character development whatsoever, in fact there is hardly anyone that appeals or even stands out in any way. And this is the movies downfall as you dont really care who lives or dies, unlike in the original where each death is gut wrenching. Its also implausible that in a ship of this size there would only be six survivors. Its cold and heartless and the gruesome deaths of hundreds of people is disturbing.

Having said all of the above I still think Poseidon should be viewed and taken on its own merit, spectacular special effects and many stunning sequences which are worth viewing more than once on the DVD.

Would have liked to have a commentary and deleted scenes added.