how this entertainer ever got a rep for facilitating recovery is beyond me.

she can't sing; she can't act and she is not particularly talented at playing the piano either.

but my main concern here is to let parents know that she appears to be a real anti-semite.  check the "god" and "raspberry swirl" videos.

in "god," sacred rituals from Judaism are shown as perverse.  this is unlike this person's portrayal of other religions, in which she is presenting perverse practices, like snake-handling.

she presents menorahs, synogogues, the reading of the Torah, Jewish prayer rituals, and klezmer as disgusting.

in contrast, she saves her anti-Christian (and other faith) ire for things that most people agree are not good or healthy.

the message I got was that amos views Judaism, itself, as a perverse faith.

it was particularly disgusting to me to see her presenting people at services and in prayer as somehow "bad" and "tainted."

amos has a rep for being anti-christian, but to me her anti-Jewish bias is more dangerous.  for one thing, she is a lot less willing to talk about it.

it disgusts me that she not only made that video, she put it on a bunch of DVDs and sold it all these years later.

for other religions, she presents practices that most people would agree are disgusting, indicating to me that she is not "hating on" those religions as she appears to do with Judaism.

also the "raspberry swirl" video presents an Eastern European vampire-type scene of the sort traditionally associated with anti-Semitism. further documentation of this can be found in her "first autobiography," piece by piece, in which she rambles about an evil (Jewish?) doctor from Romania who allegedly attempts to mutilate her vulnerable female parts.

I wish I were kidding.  I truly do not understand how or why this woman has avoided the consequences of being fairly hateful over the years.

beyond that, these DVDs manage to simultaneously bore and be violent at the same time.

the woman appears to have very little talent.