The linking of madness and death in the film is nothing out of the ordinary and it is, after all, not for this reason that the film remains famous to this day. Indeed, it is not the division between sane and insane that matters. What does matter is the use of Expressionism on screen. The visual texture of the film is evocative and startling, although to explain the Expressionism used as simply the example of a madman's vision is to undervalue the Expressionist movement as a whole.
 The entire film is shot in a studio, ensuring absolute directorial control, and the sets are beautifully and laboriously created and set the entire mood for the film. It is perhaps useful to see the film as a tone poem where the style transcends the content. The oddness of the streets, with the strongly rectangular zigzag shapes, suggests violence and instability. Even light in the film is shaped, as is shown by the streaks of white paint on the wall of the prisoner's cell. The film scorns the natural world for a more indicative one; absolutely everything the viewer is presented is constructed. In this way, the viewer is guided towards a feeling, an inner world of meaning. The living room of Jane's house is one of the most memorable sets of the film. It shares the tranquillity of Franz Marc's Expressionist painting 'The Large Blue Horses' by its use of round shapes and soft colours. The room exudes health and well being. There are even flowers in the room, in the very middle of the frame. 
The camera angles remain largely normal and level, although the film does frequently use the extreme close up to suggest inner violence and the fear of confinement. Nonetheless, the camera is intended to be unshocking and a thing the viewer can relate to: an assumed normal person looking at an extraordinary Holstenwall.
The acting is rather melodramatic, as in most silent films, and the heavy make-up on Dr. Caligari and Cesare render them as much Expressionistic models as the sets. In the case of Cesare, it seems the paint on the sets has been smudged onto his face. He is almost literally part of the set, which is indicated when he sets out for Jane's house, sliding along the walls and corridors.
The film is very valuable to watch for its desire to be different and it is perhaps just as well that the story is not more original, as it would distract the viewer from the wealth of visual distinction available.