What happened to the days when films made for kids were actually good? Sure there was crap back in the day, but most of those bad kids films weren't nearly as worthless as The Smurfs is. The Smurfs is a dreadful, pathetic waste of time that reminds me why I hate a lot of modern films for kids (Much like how I hate a lot of modern romance and comedy flicks because many of them are also of very poor quality). This film also reminds me of how dumb people have gotten and how much I loathe this generation because not only is this film of poor quality, but it also has idiotic defenders who use the bull**** excuse of "it's a kids movie, so you shouldn't be so harsh towards it," which is the most infuriating and worthless defense for a film I have ever encountered and I despise people who use this excuse with a passion more than any other annoying group I have ever encountered because stupid people like these horrible defenders are the reasons for why children in this day and age are stupid, bratty, and why they are obsessed with cell phones, texting, and Facebook since they seem to believe that bad films that are detrimental to children are just fine and dandy. The Smurfs further adds fuel to the fire of Hollywood's creative bankruptcy and further encouraging the advent of people getting dumber. Now let's talk about why The Smurfs is one of the worst films of 2011, shall we?
WHAT IT'S ABOUT: During a preparation for the Blue Moon Festival at the Smurf's village, the leader, Papa Smurf, sees a vision of Gargamel (An evil wizard) and seeing the Smurfs being put into cages and being held prisoner and fears what may be about to happen. When the Smurf named Clumsy wants to go out and pick roots outside of the village, Papa Smurf tells him not to, but Clumsy does it anyway and accidentally leads Gargamel (And his cat sidekick) to the village which gets destroyed. When Clumsy, Papa Smurf, Smurfette, Brainy Smurf, Gutsy Smurf, and Grouchy Smurf run to a forbidden cave nearby instead of running where everyone else has gone, the group ends up being sucked into a vortex and Gargamel and his cat sidekick follow and the group ends up in New York and doesn't know how to get back and must find a way. While the Smurfs run from Gargamel they end up in the home of Patrick and Grace Winslow, who after a brief period of shock, agree to let them stay with them until they can find a way home. Meanwhile, Gargamel is determined to find the Smurfs so he can use their "Smurf essence" to make himself more powerful. Meanwhile, Patrick and Grace have their own problems about starting a family and Patrick's troubles at work at the thought of either being fired or being promoted. Can all be resolved before it's too late?
MUSIC: The score is nice for the most part, but too bad many of the songs played in the film are terrible. Like the rest of this annoying piece of crap, the songs picked are in an attempt to cater to this generation's horrid taste in music which grew increasingly irritating as the film proceeded.
ACTING: Hank Azaria does the best out of any of the actors since his performance did manage to make me chuckle at least a couple of times. I'm not saying the rest of the actors are bad, they're just stuck in a crappy film loaded with annoying pop culture, foul-mouthed, and gross-out humor all rolled into an already terrible script. The actors do their best, but they can't save this film from disaster.
ACTION: The film is mostly just really boring to watch since it's hardly funny, chock full of cliches, and there is virtually no character or plot development. I didn't really like or care about any of the characters because almost all of them were bland because the script didn't develop them. The special effects and animation look nice, but that did little to add value to this film and all it told me was that more money was invested in the effects rather than a talented writer to maybe churn out a decent script. It's also really annoying just to add insult to injury, but it's more geared towards being boring.
HUMOR: Unfunny pop culture references, dirty innuendos, the film is secretly foul-mouthed (The word "smurf" is used in place of curse words, but it's not difficult to figure out what they're saying), awful gross-out gags, and more. The only funny bits involved Hank Azaria as Gargamel.
OVERALL: Make your children watch much better films that are of actual quality because you shouldn't make them watch this crap because you think it's cute or that children's minds shouldn't be challenged and be taught actual lessons. If you're one of those people who uses the "it's a kids film so you shouldn't be so hard on it," defense, you are a moron and thanks to you we get garbage like this and why children are so damn stupid and bratty nowadays. This film isn't worth seeing in the slightest and deserves to be ignored and forgotten.
THE GOOD: Hank Azaria, the music score is good, decent effects, and the actors do try.
THE BAD: Terrible humor, terrible script, terrible dialogue, terrible choice of songs, cliched beyond belief, it's annoying, and it's also boring.