Spider-Man 3 reunites all of the major players from the previous two installments in this wildly successful franchise: Sam Raimi is back in the director's chair, Kirsten Dunst returns as Mary Jane Watson, and Toby McGuire reprises his role as the wall-crawler. The critics and fans have been very kind to this particular comic book adaptation. Most of the parts are well-cast, particularly McGuire as Spidey's alter-ego Peter Parker and J. K. Simmons as irascible Bugle publisher J. Jonah Jameson. Dunst, for my money, is nowhere near the out-and-out knockout the role of M.J. requires, but her acting chops are fine and this can be dismissed as a quibble.

What does bother me about Raimi's treatment of the entire franchise is the inappropriate tone he utilizes throughout. Christopher Young's grand, somewhat menacing score, combined with Production Designers J. Michael Riva and Neil Spisak's dark and gothic New York City, are much too evocative of Tim Burton's "Batman" films. Spider-Man has always been rock and roll; bright, fast, stripped down, no-nonsense. Although the pathos inherent in the stories would seem to indicate a big, dramatic treatment, the opposite is true: the lush melodrama telegraphs the rather simple-minded themes and plot developments. What is dramatic and touching in a comic book becomes one-dimensional and even ludicrous on film. As the filmmakers move beyond Stan Lee's original and powerful dramatic framework ("With great power comes great responsibility") to sow thematic territory of their own, the result is even less substantive.

As with the recent "The Fantastic Four, The Rise of the Silver Surfer", the film-makers have chosen to blend storylines taken from several different Marvel comic books dating back to 1963: the introduction of the villain "The Sandman", Harry Osborne's (James Franco) replacing his father as "The Green Goblin", and the Todd McFarlane "Venom" arc, which gave us Spidey in a black costume. There is a serious attempt to tie them together thematically, but the short shrift subsequently given the actual characters fails to properly support the intertwined plotlines.

As the film opens everything is going (uncharacteristically) well for Peter Parker: NYC has a love affair with Spider-man, Pete's in love with MJ, and he is planning to ask her to marry him. But is he ready? Aunt May (Rosemary Harris), in what may as well have been broadcast as one of the movie's BIG THEMES, warns Peter that a husband must be ready to always put his wife first. No sooner does Pete declare himself ready to do this than MJ starts whining about her career and accusing PP of not being there for her and blah, blah, blah. Look, I'm not insensitive to the insecurities of others, but the guy seemed to be being genuinely supportive. The whole thing comes off completely manufactured and unbelievable, in what becomes something of an unfortunate pattern for this film.

While out on a date with MJ a parasitic alien escaped from a flaming meteorite attaches itself to Pete's scooter, and follows him home. This substance will eventually bond with it's host and magnify the host's natural characteristics, particularly aggression (or so says Professor Connors, the expert Pete takes a sample to). More about that later...

Meanwhile, in plot thread two, new evidence suggests that an escaped con named Flint Marco (Thomas Hayden Church), who, zapped by some kind of rays in a pile of sand has become the super-villain "The Sandman", was actually the guy behind the death of Pete's kindly old Uncle Ben. This Sandman, unlike the comic book version, has a dying daughter in need of an expensively out-of-reach operation. This adds some dimensionality to a rather under-developed character, but unfortunately the device is about all the character is given, and the daughter is all but forgotten once no longer needed. Spider-man, feeling a little more emotional thanks to the black tar parasite (Venom), seeks revenge.  He perfunctorily hunts Sandman down and defeats him (so perfunctorily that his later return is beyond expected). Enter Aunt May with BIG THEME TWO: "It's not for us to decide who lives or dies, revenge can turn us into something ugly" (or something like that).

In plot thread three, Harry Osborne is back and looking for a little revenge of his own. He doses himself with his Dad's Green Goblin serum and attacks. Fortunately, a bump on the head induces some convenient short-term (as it unsurprisingly turns out) amnesia, and "Good Harry" returns. The reason I say "Good Harry" is because the change is beyond ludicrous. He's warm, cuddly lovable... I swear there's a rainbow above him and a bluebird on his shoulder. That the filmmakers are not exactly trading in subtlety is a supreme understatement.

If that sounds like a lot, it is... but there's more. Lot's more. It's like Raimi was afraid that if he actually dawdled on a single emotion or development for more than 10 seconds he'd lose us.

Needless to say, Pete learns his lessons, is forgiven by everyone, forgives everyone (actually saying "I forgive you" to Sandman), defeats Venom (That 70's Show's Topher Grace; not bad), the Goblin, and The Sandman, and takes MJ's hand in loving anticipation of "Spider-Man 4". It doesn't add up to much. The action scenes from the first two films are not expanded upon. In fact, the most interesting effects are the Sandman scenes, and they aren't much different than stuff we'd already seen in "The Mummy" (what was that, about 10 years ago?). Peter's duality is signified by his combing his hair down and doing disco moves to girls in the streets of NY (really-I'm not making this up), and Harry's duality is so broad that we never have any idea what we're supposed to feel about the character. He's been in all 3 films and it's like he's 2 separate characters, creating no dramatic tension whatsoever. Did Raimi expect us to like him, hate him, like him, hate him... and then actually care about his fate?  What. Ever.

The film does actually build up some weird kind of grandiose energy toward the end, and the large stable of appealing performers makes the film very watchable. Bryce Dallas Howard is a gorgeous Gwen Stacy, and I could watch Elizabeth Banks (here, a scene stealing Betty Brant, on "Scrubs", the mother of J.D.'s child) do her taxes. What the film doesn't bother to provide is an engaging narrative or anything to actually feel. The story is needlessly busy ("complex" would be giving it too much credit), and the plotlines  (or the filmmaker) don't allow the characters to inhabit the story so much as get pulled along by it. It's point A to point B to point C. I ended up back at point "A"- for "apathetic".