_Lost_ is sometimes a frustrating show: too many stories, too much mystery, and not enough answers. I am impatient and so I watched S1 on DVD and bought S2 from iTunes. Even in having watched it all in a relatively short amount of time, I was felt that few storylines ever concluded. It is also safe to say that S2 was slower than S1. Watching S2 of _Lost_ will be particularly thrilling for those willing to wait. That said _Lost_ is still a remarkable series, and, despite the pace of S2, I still prefer it to S1 in some respects. _Lost_ is not only about action and suspense; it is about society and philosophy. In S2, philosophical concepts are fleshed-out and come into conflict.

Something that makes _Lost_ such a terrific show is the intelligent writing. And by this, I do not mean the predictable dialogue which tends to pop up from time to time (usually out of the mouth of Jack, our hero without imagination); what I mean is that references in this show and attention to detail are amazing. John Locke, Desmond David Hume, and Danielle Rousseau are three characters worth mentioning. John Locke, David Hume, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau were all philosophers who focused on the issues of civilization vs. nature, social contract, laws, government et cetera. No themes could possibly be more appropriate for a show about people suddenly stranded on a deserted island, as people who were previously comfortable in civilized society are forced to live without property, laws, or government. As they try to recapture the essence of the familiar law and forge an unofficial government of sorts, there are many interfering factors which force them to sometimes abandon a set rules not suited for their present lifestyle.

The names of the characters (Locke, Rousseau, Hume) are of course references in themselves, but it is the way that these characters were written and how they manage to make philosophical debate spark within a popular television show which is truly interesting and all-too-rare. Not only do the characters make what their respective philosophers wrote and believed come alive, they show the conflict that arises between these different philosophical viewpoints. It is a philosopher's dream to encounter a show such as _Lost_; and to be able to see a "what if" simulation of what each philosopher would have done if he were on this island is a pleasure. The writers even allude to the personal lives of these philosophers through the characters, and despite the all-too-striking resemblance, they somehow managed to make it subtle, and the characters seem as if they're anything but plagiarized.

I will not go into detail so as to not ruin the experience for those who have not yet watched _Lost_.

There are also many other references -- cleverly inserted names and events -- which make the show all the more enjoyable.

You do not have to be familiar with or be interested by the references to appreciate _Lost_; but this is what sets it apart from other TV action-dramas; this is what makes it great.