Hey, have you heard about that guy who just married Madonna? Who knew that he also made movies! Guy Ritchie has done it again. Where "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" knocked on our hip-dialouge-driven-action-movie starved door (due in part to the 3 year absence of Mr. Tarantino), "Snatch" kicks open the door and comes at us with guns blazing.  Snatch revolves around a stolen "diamond the size of a fist" that changes hands between quite a few of London's most unsavory characters. Characters such as underground boxing promoter Turkish (Jason Stratham) and thief extrodanaire/gambling junkie Frankie Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro) Others include an impossible to kill russian hitman, a ganster that feeds people to pigs, a 400 pound getaway driver, and a squeaking dog.  The story line is masterfully balanced, giving ample screen time to each and every facet of this amazing, gritty world of Ritchie. There are more than a few memorable performances, but none seem to shine like Brad Pitt as Mickey O'Niell and Vinnie Jones as Bullet Tooth Tony.  Brad Pitt is hardly recognizable as a scruffy, tatooed gypsy boxer who can knock any man out with one punch. You can tell Brad leapt entirely into Mickey's skin and started running. His barely intelligible gypsy drawl is far and away the funniest running gag in th ewhole film. Pitt has given us the antithesis of what Holloywood has deemed him, no more is he to be called the sexiest man alive. He has now earned the title of the "best damn actor we've got!"  If you haven't heard of British bad boy Vinnie Jones yet, you will now. His performance as the enforcer Bullet Tooth Tony is the breakout of the millenium. His quiet fierce intelligence burns through his gruff appearance and into each member of the audience, leaving them felling enlightened and warned all at once.  I only have 1000 words to use here, that hardly seems enough, but I can think of one word that describes this movie perfectly, "neccessary".  It's refreshing to have a film that entertains without insulting it's audience's intelligence. Mr. Ritchie, thank you for giving movie viewers hope of a brave and ballsy new world. In a time when the genre has faltered, it's nice to know that the hip and frantic world of bad boys who know how to use both brains and guns is alive and well and married to Madonna.