Products like this should come with a warning label that says "May Not Be Suitable for Diehard Fans, Collectors or Obsessives."  Any CD or DVD with the word "Greatest" on it means it's the band's and/or label's idea of what their best songs are, not necessarily the hardcore fan's.  It's a career highlight DVD to play for your friends to give them a crash course in Duran Duran.
If you can accept this reality, then the "Greatest" DVD is a lot of fun and a real blast from the past.  I fall somewhere in the middle when it comes to DD - I have most of their official recordings, but no bootlegs or video collections.  I also don't have MTV2 or any other source for videos these days, so I haven't seen most of these videos in years.
I found myself really enjoying the experience of watching these videos again, sort of like lost friends that have found their way back home.  Even overplayed videos like "Rio" or "Hungry Like The Wolf" are a lot more fun than what passes for videos these days.  You simply can't make silly, campy, over-the-top videos like these anymore - maybe we're just too cynical these days.  I found myself laughing (fondly) through most of this DVD.
One thing "Greatest" does really well is establish a visual timeline not only of the band, but of the era itself.  It's a journey through the music and sometimes ridiculous fashions of the 80s, as well of the birth of the music video art form and - at the risk of sounding too scholarly  - our development into a society bombarded by visual imagery.  
Do I have any quibbles?  Sure - I wish they had left off certain videos and included others.  The video transfer is grainy and cheap looking in spots.  I don't really need multiple versions of "New Moon on Monday."
As far as the extras go (beyond alternate videos), they're short and not spectacular, but fun nevertheless.  We see promotional films for the first album and "Seven and the Ragged Tiger," interviews with band members about other albums, photo and album galleries.  Of all the alternate videos, the banned "Girls on Film" (including a version with a funny alternate ending), the short film version of  "New Moon on Monday" (over the top, to say the least) and a VERY early Rumrunner Club performance of "Planet Earth," are true treasures.
As for the difficulty of finding the extras, here's what you do if you, like me, have no patience to navigate through the DVD.  On lizardkingduran.com or other fan sites, there are track lists posted of everything on the DVD.  Hit the "Stop" button twice on your player and simply enter the track number of whatever you want to see.  Why bother going on an "easter egg hunt"?
As a side note, for those complaining that "Violence of Summer" isn't on the DVD, it actually is - or at least 70% of it.  Watch the lengthy promotional piece on the "Liberty" album, and you'll find that it's bookended with the video, though most of it is at the end.  Funny how this DVD devotes so much space to the "Liberty" album, when most fans and the band consider it to be their worst.
If you're a DD completist, the recently released Singles box set, though unwieldy, is a much more valuable collection that this DVD, which is really meant for the general consumer.  My advice if you're sitting on the fence - considering the outcry over this DVD from some quarters, there should be plenty of used copies floating around soon.  Buy a used copy, and you'll be getting a good deal.  At least until the complete, definitive, must-have, remastered, mulit-disc version arrives next Christmas (isn't that how it works with record labels?).