This is one of my favorite movies.  When I think about it, the first words I associate are dark and down. Dark is the color of the actual film.  Dark is the descent to unexposed recesses of men.  Dark is the degradation of a man through exposure to the residents of these caverns; secret societies that live out our nightmares.  Secret societies that live out the dirtiest fantasies, we have and never would dare tell a soul. This is the ride of the protagonist.  The downward spiral he forces himself into, and at the end regrets.

Shumacher, seems to have a knack for psychological downward spirals.  He gave us before, "Falling down" with Michael Douglas.

"When you dance with the devil, the devil doesn't change...the devil changes you"

This phrase given by Max (Joaquin Phoenix) is metaphoric to the whole story.

First off, I'll address the easy equation with "Thesis" the Spanish film.  Not because both films use one subject, Snuff films, one is a rip off of the other or even inspired from.

8MM is a psychological thriller. It is an exploration of the most sinister side of the human.  And what happens to an average guy when exposed to the chaotic and insane, and discovers he has an inclination to them, gets desensitized, or reacts out of character.  Shumacher intends to drive you down alongside the character, so you see what he sees and feel what he feels, and find out how "normal" you are.

Tom Wells is a normal guy.  He has a beautiful family, striving to solidify their economical position in the upper middle class.  Tom has one vice, smoking and hides it from his wife.  He is a surveillance expert, and his last job is the story of the movie.

A recently death industrial czar had a vice and hided it from his wife of 50 years.

The wife wants to explore all the truth into the man's vice, and commissions Wells to dig into it, especially investigate if someone was hurt by it.

Some evil and injustice, are so overwhelming to one's sensitivity that rage overrides and leads to unwanted actions that scar.  Acts so far out ominous that you are forced to react and create some balance to give some overall sense.  But instead of gaining some peace from this, you sprout a hate hungry monster that cannot be turned off.  Carrying its bitter taste to everyday life.  Well's investigation leads him to this kind of path.  And he is forced to react instinctively and then cover up the mess.

Again Max's words of caution: "there are things you'll see that cannot be unseen",

are encompassing of this journey.

Finally, It's all about self-discovery.  And through Shumacher's world and Cage's performance you get to live the abrasive, seedy journey, including its controversial choices.

They truly seem far more difficult to make than out of context.

Is violence and revenge in some unique occasions justifiable?. At least within the window of your emotional stability?  Are there actions you cannot be a bystander to, although the consequences might be devastating?

Is there guilt in the pleasure of punishing those whom, on your mind unquestionably deserve it?  How high is the price to pay for that pleasure?

Those are the questions you might notice become more puzzling at the end.