I don't understand some of the negative reviews posted here.  This is an animated adaptation of the Ultimates comic, not a re-telling of the comic.  Just think of it as a "new story".  No,it does not follow the comic (not closly anway), but it's not at all bad...in fact, it's pretty darn good.

There are some things that make me raise an eyebrow, like Hulk picking up Thors hammer...but in EVERY animated adaptation of a comic, there are things that make you go "what the heck".  Example - In the Justice League cartoon, in one episode, Superman is in space wearing astronaut gear!  What the heck??  Since when can Supes not fly in space, especially around earths yellow sun...without the aid of a space suit!!

Bottom line...the "rules" that govern these heroes are always somewhat different in the animated adaptations then they are in the comic.  Does that make it "right" or does that mean it could not have been written better...no, not at all (otherwise I may have given it 5 stars instead of 4), but it certainly does not make it bad (and certainly not worthy of the one star rating I saw a few people give it).  It's just "different".

But one thing this movie does do is capture the spirit of the Avengers (ultimate or not).  I was a little disappointed that Thor was not in it more, but the screen time he does have is great.  Cap is very well written, the voice acting was much better then I was expecting and the animation far exceeded my expectations.

I am not at all a fan of the Spiderman cartoon or the X-Men cartoon...the stories are not only to "in depth" for my kids, but they also bore the heck outta me and the animation in both of those, to me anyway...it's just "blocky" looking, and the characters often seem out of proportion, hard to puy my finger on it, but I have never liked the animation in Spiderman or X-Men.

But Avengers animation is quiet good.  It flows very well, and the characters "look" cool.  The fight scenes are intense and entertaining and the the overall effect was very enjoyable  (the do a GREAT job of capturing the pure fury and uncontrollable rage of the Hulk).  I had low expectation, but man, I was very happy with the end result.  I still think Justice League may have the best overall animation, but Avengers is 2nd without a doubt and the best from Marvel.

The story was fine, it fit with the spirit of the comic (if not the "exact" story) and a lot of the more adult content was left out, wich is fine because animated features, just by nature being a cartoon, target a larger audience then just adults.  This was very well done.

My son (2 1/2) enjoyed it (expecially the Captain America parts), but it is pretty intense for kids, and some of the slower "story-line" parts lost his interest for a bit, but he was right back into it when the action kicked up again.

My Nephew and his friend (both around 7) LOVED this movie.  They were yelling and screaming during the fight scenes (which had us pausing our movie in the other room, just to listen to them yelling)...

"Ooooh...I bet that hurt!!!" (Thor hitting Hulk with his hammer)
"Captain America's OK!!"
"Ironman's back!!!"
"Oh, ow!!"...
"Ow!!"
"He's a monster!"
"It's the Hulk!!"

LOL...it was totally great.  They loved it, and I think any comic fan will be able to appriciate this movie as well.

The only reason this get's 4 instead of 5 stars is Hulk picking up Thors hammer (and using it against him, no less).  I'll leave the end results of that battle out of this review (don't want to spoil anything for those of you who have not seen it) but suffice it to say, the same end to that confrontation could have been written without Hulk picking up Thors hammer (unless they are going on the assumption perhaps that Thor is not a deity or Asguardian or whatever, and he's just a nutcase with a high tech weapon, but that's neither here nor there with regards to this movie or review).  I also have to wonder how a little needle/syringe penetrates Hulks skin, but again, I can let that go (think Hawkeye did that in the comic as well, firing it from his bow, but don't recall for sure...been a while since I read the comic).

In the end, if your a fan of comics or animation, I highly recommend...Ultimate Avengers and greatly look forward to Marvels next animated release's (Ultimate Avengers II - Aug, Ironman - Oct, and Dr. Strange - Feb 07).