I own all three seasons of Lost in Space on DVD and can't wait till I'm through with the last season, because, frankly I'm sick of it. I've been watching with my kids, ages 2-14, but only ages 2-12 actually appreciate it anymore.

The first season is the best, and the pilot episode is surprisingly good as early TV sci-fi. But it ultimately deteriorates into weary formulaic, camp. If you are at all interested, just buy a few episodes at a time. Even if you think you are incurably nostalgic, as my wife and I thought we would be, that feeling was mostly gone by the end of the first season and completely disappeared after just a few episodes of season two. The transition from black & white to color was mildly interesting but didn't help make a better series.

Though thoroughly despicable and infuriating with no redeeming virtue, Dr. Smith really is the most interesting character (thanks to the relatively creative Jonathan Harris). Apparently, Dr. Smith has instilled all my children with a strong belief in capital punishment for traitors, saboteurs, and kidnappers, and perhaps an unhealthy and never satiated desire to see Dr. Smith utterly destroyed by some alien or self-inflicted mishap.

Even more conflicted are the feelings we eventually get from watching the Robinson parents show after show. What the writers probably meant as role models of unconditional forgiveness quickly turns into disturbing examples of insane incompetence that rivals or exceeds that of Dr. Smith. What kind of parent leaves children (and an extremely powerful robot) alone and in the hands of an unfettered and unrepentant diabolically greedy, self-serving, desperate, cowardly, hedonistic, murderous, deceitful, kidnapping, hijacking, professional assassin and saboteur? ...after nearly killing them or losing them forty times in a row? The show is maddening, I tell you. Once you learn the hidden (and perhaps unintentional) lesson of the series, you should definitely stop watching it.

Someone should just make a best of episode list so people can merely download those ones at the iTunes store.

On the bright side, Lost in Space has really got me hyped on watching my Star Trek collection, which I've been saving till our family finishes off this goofy precursor. The connection and progress from this sci-fi series to the next is quite evident, from story ideas to music.