I've now watched a German, a French, an Irish, an Australian, a New Zealand, a Hong Kong, a Thailand and a Japanese zombie film.  This, of course, in addition to the prolific Italian and Spanish genres.  And each has had its own special aura.  "Berlin Undead" has a dark, brooding, almost introspective feel to it.  It's very slight on action, even on suspense; but the atmosphere is almost overpowering.  There's nothing surprising about seeing a group of zombies suddenly appear from out of nowhere because it just looks and feels like the kind of place where zombies might spontaneously generate.

I didn't go to the "Setup Menu" because I just assumed it would be in German with English subtitles; but it wasn't, so my first viewing was in German only.  Even so, I could pretty easily follow along and enjoy the film.  I watched it a second time with English dialogue.  I had missed four crucial pieces. 1) The young man, Harper, was a plumber's helper - not the son of the main character, Michael's, girl friend Gabi, as I first thought.  2) The zombie plague was pathogenic in nature.  3) There apparently was a cure.  And 4), the use of sedatives could slow the pathogen's progress - this fourth piece of information made sense of the pills being passed around.

The best part of the movie was the ending.  It wasn't the usual ambiguous ending but rather a clear escape by the survivors.  They were in a boat rowing down what appeared at first to be a little backwater stream till the scene opened up to show the boat being rowed in a great river (presumably either the Spree or the Havel).  They were headed for a ship whose foghorn had sounded sporadically throughout the film; it was assumed that the water provided the only safe haven.  This scene, of the rowboat all alone in the water, was even more brooding and introspective than the rest of the movie.

All in all, this was probably the most unique zombie film I've ever seen. The zombies took a back seat not only to the main characters but to the environment itself.  And when the survivors planned and executed their escape, it wasn't so much to get away from the zombies as it was to seek food and a safe haven.