This is a funny thing about sean connery, back in 1973, the producers of james bond movies offered him loads and loads of money, and really wanted him to continue as bond. he refused, and they hired Roger Moore to continue as bond. (after Connery had alredy turned down the role once before when Lazenby took over) but then about 10 years later, connery is fine by staring in this none-real james bond movie. i'm sorry, i'm a big james bond fan since i was child, but i could never dig this movie nomather how much i wanted.
it feels slow, pale and empty. it can't be compared with the regular "real" james bond movies. i want it to be a part of the james bond series, but it just doesnt have it. it doesn't have it. and the fact that it's a remake of "Thunderball" makes it just even more lame. and if they had to make a remake. why not do a remake of a movie that Roger Moore had starred in earlier? that would be so fun to compare. the bond films are based on books, so why not film the "Octopussy" book wich Moore was doing the same time 1983? But to do a remake of a movie that Connery has alredy done Bond in back the 60s.. that's just so lame.
this could be wrong, but i think i heard that sean connery doesnt like to talk about james bond in interwievs. isn't james bond what made sean connery? james bond is what sean connery always will be most famour for. what has he done since he quit the role? small movies, unknown movies, trash like "the league", or playing indiana jones dad or something.. he was at his best as james bond, and doesnt seem to appreciate the role as much as Moore and Brosnan has done. they were more like the oposit, they loved playing bond and never wanted to stop it.
Connery did this movie the same year as Roger Moore was james bond in a "real" bond flick titled "Octopussy", though "Never say never again" looks more like it was made 20 years earlier.. Connery's bond movies from the 60's looks more up to date than this. alote of people think Connery is too old to play Bond in this movie, don't they know that Connery is younger than Moore? (who kept playing bond for 2 more years). what is it with these people and age? please. besides, bond is best as old. i want bond to be old. okey?. and just the title of this movie.. what a dumb title. there's only one good thing about this weak movie, and thats sean connery back as Bond. just too bad he didnt continue in a "real" bond flick instead of making this jive 15 years later.