Since beginning of Jan 2012, I have purchased several DVDs for kettlebell training.  I wanted to begin with this one, but when I received it, the case was broken and the disk had been floating around getting scratched up during delivery.  The little I watched before it froze up in my DVD player, I was very impressed with Lauren's technique and training style and couldn't wait to try it out.

Because Amazon's return policy isn't great for DVDs and being so anxious to try this workout, I went to Lauren Brook's website and contacted her directly.  A new DVD was promptly shipped to me. What awesome customer service!! I will purchase future DVDs from Lauren's site directly and not through Amazon.  Not sure happends during shipping, but I read others had similar problems with theirs.

OK, on to the workout.  Lauren's training and cueing style is not what I've been used to with other workout DVD's.  She's quieter and more focused on technique. If you're looking for an instructor that yells out the next move or counts down all the reps or chatters throughout the workout, this is not that.

The tutorial is REALLY GOOD for learning technique.  She reviews many basic kettlebell moves.  I would recommend practicing the techniques really well before starting the workout.  Use a mirror or have a workout buddy watch your form. I can't emphasize this enough. Ideally, we'd all have an RKC instructor available to train us in person...but they aren't easy to find and can cost a lot. This is the next best thing.

I experienced a full-body soreness after completing all the workouts on this DVD. I will continue to use the workouts, just increase the weight of the bell as it gets too easy.  You really could do this workout 2x/week and get amazing benefits. I can not believe how my strength has improved in such a short time.  I notice it most in my core and glutes/hamstrings. I can even do a couple of pushups now without being on knees. : )  Daily activities are suddenly easier...carrying groceries and laundry, power cleaning the house, etc.  I have more energy.  I haven't experienced this rapid strengthening with any other workout.  I've even convinced my 60 year old Mom to try it (and now she's hooked).  My husband went through the tutorial with me and plans to continue.  This is good stuff, folks.  I've heard comments from friends about the workouts looking dangerous. Well, yeah.  You're swinging a heavy cast iron ball around.  You have to pay attention to what you're doing and do the moves correctly.  I'm clumsy and prone to hurting myself and I haven't gotten injured...just take it slow.

Overall, GREAT workout...highly recommended.