I also own a copy of the script, NIXON/AN OLIVER STONE FILM, Edited by Eric Hamburg, Screenplay by Stephen J. Rivele, Christopher Wilkinson Wilkinson, and Oliver Stone, which is like owning the words and music to a song; you can look at it and remember bits and pieces, but it is likely to be a long time before anyone with my limited capacities is likely to know everything about a song, much less a movie of this magnitude.  People who live in constant indignation might be able to understand why movies are expected to last only so long, and this is one of those two videotape movies that might count as two selections in more ways than one, without having a special movie category for psychotic multiplicity for people who have actually been involved in something that was motivated by the idea, "Let's get some real killers," a line which might not appear in the movie, but the book has some essays in Part 1, from pages 1 to 79, including one by a screenwriter on this project called, "The Year of the Beast" on pages 56-60 about the process of making a movie out of this kind of thing.  Movies are one of our most popular artforms, and as blockbusters go, often form the ultimate comparison with reality which help people like Ronald Reagan form some idea of what is going on in the world, moral and all.  A lot of reality was behind the chilling aspects of this movie, and my key to what makes this movie tick is the bomshell on page 290 of the screenplay, where a "Nixon (V.O. on Tape)" imaginatively constructs what might have been on "an eighteen-and-a-half-minute gap in a critical Watergate tape."  If the government actually has any secrets, Oliver Stone and United Stoners of America everywhere must believe "Whoever killed Kennedy came from this . . . this thing we created.  This Beast . . . That's why we can't let this thing go any farther."
As for actually watching the movie, I liked the line "Nixon can't say that," which was a gentle joke about whatever the truth might be, whenever the movie tried to approach how Nixon might react to the truth about anything.  This movie should be good for people who think the United Stoners of America could learn a lot by using their imaginations to fill in a lot of gaps in our knowledge of Nixon as a character, and especially of our government as a monstrosity.  I loved Martha Mitchell in this movie as I never had before, and I think it was because she added a human element which is quite common in movies, but quite sadly lacking in most of this show, and there are even footnotes on page 290 of the script to show how much study the people who made this movie went through to be able to suck the life out of this film so effectively.