Everyone has to see Shrek the Third. Why? Because they love the original, so they have to see what happens next. That's what I do! It's the norm. But this volume in the 'Shrek' francise was a little more sour than sweet.

First with the bad: Joke Quality
Now, I've said this before and I'll say it again. Jokes for kids are NOT just fart and burp jokes! I am currently 12 years old, and I find it very degrading that I fall under the category of a 'kid' and not a 'teen'. A burp or fart every once in a while is okay, but every 6  or 7 minutes!? The writers at Dreamworks really need to remember that other children besides 7 year olds will be coming to the film and will not laugh at these jokes! There were also a lot of suggestive jokes in the movie that were there for older teenagers or adults. I, knowing what most of them meant, found it very uncomfortable sitting next to my parents while the innuendo jokes played on the screen. I think that there are too many jokes that kids will not understand. Pixar, for instance, has mastered the art of making jokes that both children and adults (and me!) will laugh at, most of them with witty one-liners and physical comedy: and very little suggestive humor! Hooray!

Another "Ehhh..." Quality: Character Development
If you introduce new characters, you have to make them exciting, thought provoking, emotionally deep, and easy to relate to. How many new characters were there? 1...2...3...4...5...6!!!! Four (!SPOILERS!) new princesses all arrive, pleasantly funny and witty: A clueless Cinderella, a cynical Snow White, a sleepy (DUH!) Sleeping Beauty, and an evil Rapunzel. They are fortunately fun characters, and they offer great jokes. Strangely, none of them are married...that's just a little confusing. No, it's not them that I'm worried about. Nor am I worried about a very strange Merlin who I enjoyed a lot. ("No, I can't teleport you off to a distant land. How about a hug instead?") It's Arthur (Artie) that I'm throughly confused about. If you get a new character, it's your job to make them interesting and deep. Artie wasn't deep! He's a mysterious character. You can safely say that he is only ever show two emotions: happiness and anger. Nothing in between. I did stare at him on the screen, however. Not because of intrest, but because he looks exactly (in the face) like a girl in my class. I also had a dream that Artie was married to the little mermaid's daughter and defeated a very fat Davy Jones. Confused? I am.

A Questionable Subject: The Plot
When I took my two friends (who are twins) to see Shrek the Third, I had already seen it. One of the twins commented that (quote) "It's funny, but if you analize the story, the plot needs a lot of work." I laughed. It was just like her to say that. But as I thought about it more and more, the plot WAS bad. It's like the makers just cooked up a burnt movie and coated it with delicious jokes to hide the foul taste of the real movie. Why did Charming need to put on a play? Who was Artie's father? Why are guards so gullible? These questions and more poured into my head! The plot jumps around and is pretty easy to follow, but it leaves you asking 'why?'.

The Good: Animation
While sterile at times, the animation was pretty darn good for a Dreamworks movie. The landscapes and the new areas around Far Far Away were rich to look at. Some characters did lack some style, but the animation is better than that of the first Shrek movie. What about Shrek 2, you ask? Not as good. As good as a Pixar film? Now, let's not hope for miracles. The animation does make it very enjoyable.

All in all, Shrek the Third is pretty much just okay. There are some funny laughs, like a hilarious scene when Shrek is trying to talk to Artie in 'hip' teenage lingo. Go and see it for the scenery and to see Shrek triumph again.

Sincerely,

~Dapplewing~