ALOHA brings out the best in Elvis, even though he seems a little somber from time to time, possibly over the loss of Priscilla, so when he sings CAN'T HELP FALLING IN LOVE with you, he seems to be singing directly to his memories of love (they would be divorced in October).  It is a heartbreaking document to all who love Elvis.  This DVD package is extraordinary.  It contains just about everything we could possibly have asked for from Marty Pasetta's groundbreaking staging of Elvis' Aloha concert.  The producers certainly asked him to pull a lot together, and he delivered, thanks to a marvelous band that would literally do anything for their leader, and backed by the Sweet Inspirations who were always simpatico with Elvis, sometimes seeming to pick him up when he felt down (their energy was contagious, and sometimes you can watch him sensing the energy and responding to it).  It was filmed in January but not released in the USA until April (1973) after some heavy editing.

If I remember right, Elvis never gave a concert in Europe, although many European promoters made him offers galore, and so this filmed performance may show him off at the farthest away place from where he was born.  With all that psychic baggage loaded onto the plane with him, I think we can all agree he did an amazing job.  Elvis of course had made several movies with a Hawaiian theme, and he had sort of adopted the state as a place where good vibrations were to be found everywhere, rainbows and tropical sunsets, as well as a hint of danger (in the simmering dormant volcanoes that matched his performance style) and his groundbreaking anti-racist message, seemingly embodied in the so-called "melting pot" of Hawaii with its population of indigenous and mixed race citizens.  How many times did Elvis explicitly state this message of tolerance and/or activism?  As he sang to us, "Are we too blind to see,/ Do we simply turn our heads/ And look the other way?"

Watching this DVD will bring a smile of nostalgia to those who visited Honolulu back in the day, as the show was filmed in what used to be the Honolulu International Conventional Center.  Nowadays, of course, this is no longer extant.  It is said that the show raised $75,000 for a local cancer fund.  To me, this doesn't seem like a while lot, especially when you think that Elvis signed a $1000 check personally as did the Colonel.  Over the years this performance must have raked in millions of dollars.  Hope the Kui Lee Fund continues to get residuals from this exemplary DVD version.

I hope that the USS Arizona Benefit concert from 1961 is also released on DVD.  That's the one where Elvis first wore gold lame and where he appeared with Miinie Pearl!  You know that's a keeper!