Hal Ashby's greatest work is about the Vietnam War, and manages to top both Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" and Cimino's "Deer Hunter" by never giving in to the impulse to actually portray the  horrors of Vietnam, thereby rendering them a sort of entertainment, no  matter how gruesome or awful they are.  While Cimino's unspeakable and  propagandistic war scenes in Vietnam sparked a host of unintelligent  imitators throughout the 80s (Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, etc), few have  attempted to revisit Ashby's approach in remaining entirely on the home  front (with a brief sequence in Hong Kong) and allowing Vietnam to go  unseen.  Ashby's Edenic images of happiness and love between Fonda and  Voight are all we need to know, in a way, to recognize just how monstrous  Vietnam must have been.  The monstrosities remain an abstraction, different  and specific to every veteran, their violence unrelenting, endless,  indescribable, locked in the psyches of these poor, ordinary people who now  have to put their lives back together.  While there are political overtones  to this film, the real idea is much more sophisticated than a typical  "anti-war film."  Ashby is really acknowledging how  incommensurate life is with the uncontrollable forces that not only dictate  what happens, but what we think we want.  Both Voight and Dern's characters  go off to war as patriotic Marines, convinced of their worth; both return  to a world in which nothing makes sense and (almost) no one is around to  lend a hand in their reacclimation.  The film argues that war is  necessarily trauma (a fascinating idea) that has to be expunged, one way or  another, upon arrival back into peacetime society.  Dern's breakdown in one  of the film's most pivotal scenes is more powerful and convincing a  testament to the perversity of Vietnam than all of the gore and  Asian-bashing that Coppola and Cimino can put together between them.  Jane  Fonda's incredible performance hits all the right notes as someone who  boldly braves the distance between what she has been told the world is like  and what it actually is.  To watch her expressions and reactions is to  witness a sublime depiction of self-becoming, and points beyond the specter  of war that the men of the film remain mired in.