I have to say that this animation is definitely not for kids, it is definitely aimed at the adults to appreciate. This animation is based loosely on Dante's Inferno, from the fourteenth-century epic poem Divine Comedy. Everything described in that novel, all the levels of hell and who or what you can find there, are in this animation. However, the characters are changed slightly. I will try not to spoil it too much, especially for those who haven't watched it yet. This animated epic also accompanies a PS3 game of the same name which is due out any day now.

The Crusader knight Dante, returns from the Crusades only to find his beloved Beatrice murdered. The reason for her murder is later explained in the course of the story. As her soul ascends to Heaven, it is captured by Lucifer and dragged to Hell, and Dante gives chase. This story basically uncovers the history of Dante's Holy Crusade and what damning deeds he did and how he broke his promise and gave into temptation. It is a story of forgiveness and redemption not just for himself but for certain people who were close to Dante. At the same time, it also tries to teach us that even the purest soul can be corrupted, after being subjected to manipulation by the devil, where he twists and turns the truths and lies, to break you down and make you believe his version of the truth.

I must say I enjoyed the animation thoroughly, there were 3 different animators throughout the entire movie. And each of them did a fantastic job of depicting the damned, the evil and the emotional state of the characters. The first animator used sad and proper tone and lines in the art, probably showing Dante's unbreakable will and righteousness cause. The second had a lot of abstract looks to the characters, probably depicting how they characters were twisted. The later animator brought out a lot of bright colors, probably to show Dante, as he found clarity, redemption and forgiveness in his search for his love.

Blood, murder, butchery, death, gore and much more are the main themes in the story, and why not, they were animating a story about Hell. I think the highlight of the story for me was when Dante found Crusaders in Hell and he questioned it, believing that the Crusaders cause was holy and that they were absolved of sin, and the dead crusaders spat out was that "The Priest lied!", probably telling him that this Crusade was all for nothing to begin with and in another life, they didn't have to die. Although some of the characters found closure, the story finished off in an open-ended manner, which wasn't clearly explained.

I highly recommend this animation epic to everyone, especially those who enjoyed animations (or anime) like Animatrix and Akira. And those who can appreciate that some blood and gore cannot be depicted in mainstream Hollywood movies, and can only be so much better depicted only in an animation.