A quick gander at Anaconda's headliners (Jon Voight, Owen Wilson, Kari Wuhrer, and to a lesser extent Ice Cube, Eric Stolz, and J-Lo) might lead one to believe this film had some great things to offer. After all, someone enticed these big names to climb aboard. This was a case of casting agency genius, as they convinced this unfortunate bunch to take on completely flat roles and make a mockery of modern filmmaking at the same time.  ("So just sit right back and you'll hear a tale, a tale of a fateful trip...")
Almost nothing works here. The story is silly, the dialogue is drab, the direction is clumsy, and the namesake star (the snake) is pretty pitiful. Speaking of the anaconda, the effects team must not have been paid on time and was therefore disgruntled - the snake looks fuzzy and painted in for a good portion of the film.  And it's always smiling, menacingly I should add, as if to say, "Pay my animator or be squished!"  If you're a reptile fanatic or hate cold-blooded creatures, Anaconda's reptilian representation will stretch your endurance for flat-out fantasy. The characters' motivations (including Mr. Snakey) begged the audience to cry aloud, "AW, COME ON!" on more than one occasion. 
Jon Voight, having been recently nominated for an academy award for his performance in "ALI", must want to hide this title from his resume. His character, Paul Sarone, is utter ridiculousness in celluloid form. From his ludicrously phony accent to his bizarre backstory, Sarone is so far out there it almost hurts to watch. The rest of the cast and characters aren't much of an improvement. At best, they're the worst type of Hollywood charicatures all thrown onto a boat together.  Whoo-pee.  ("The mate was a mighty sailor man, the skipper brave and sure...")
The tagline, "You can't scream if you can't breathe," could probably be amended to say, "You won't scream when you're asleep. Trust us, it won't take long."  In short, this 89 minute snoozer will feel like "a threeee hour tour."