Leaving the movie description to other more able reviewers, I won't repeat anything.  Let me just say I am seeing it for about the fifth or sixth time and my eyes still well with tears of emotion when I see that troubled nation magically changing by the sheer will of the great statesman Nelson Mandela. He managed to draw all peoples together and change the flag and the nation to multi-color, and he managed to win the Springboks over before they won the 1995 World Cup. If I could be granted a wish to have been anywhere in the past 20 years, it would be attending that great game in Ellis Stadium in Johannesburg, the last bastion of Afrikanerdom, just to watch that game, the mighty Springboks versus the feared New Zealand All-Blacks (so named after the color of their uniforms). I'd see the old Boer "bitter-ender" descendants of hard-line Afrikaner voortrekkers playing rugby and fathers and sons of apartheid hugging and being hugged by peoples of all colors and persuasions during and after the game when their countrymen won the World Cup. I'd hear people of all tribes, colors, and religions cheering and shouting Mandela's name and see that game. I'd hear alack, white, and every color of men, women, and children sing "Nkosi Sikelele' iAfrica", the cherished song of black freedom. The film is true to life by director Clint Eastwood. But oh to be in old J'burg just to see the Springboks win the World Cup Rugby and the great president Mandela in his Springbok jersey and cap, smiling from ear to ear, as he presented the World Cup to the Captain of the Springboks, which by his sheer force of will he made the whole country's team, no longer exclusive to Afrikaners.

Immediately after seeing this movie I googled Francois Pienaar and got him on You-Tube talking to and about Mandela and ended up buying the book "Playing the Enemy", by John Carlin, which moved me even more. It reassured me of the authenticity of the film. The 'Boks winning that day was the crowning moment for South Africa not just in sporting events but the culmination and beginning of Mandela's "One Team, One Country" idea which both shocked, surprised, and pleased all citizens (mostly themselves) by their own reactions.

President Nelson Mandela is played most ably by Morgan Freeman,and in voice, accent, and and gesture--he is  authentically Mandela). Francois Pienaar, the Afrikaans Captain of the Springboks is played by Matt Damon (of Bourne fame) with a very authentic Afrikaans accent and a fierce rugby-playing skill, though only 5'11" not 6'4" is very believable and played a strong Captain. He was big in soul and a convincing Captain and you could see Damon was playing great rugby. I'am sure the real Pienaar was pleased. The first meeting between Pienaar and Mandela, like everything in the film, is based on fact. I had no inkling that these incidents had ever occurred. How I managed to miss this is beyond someone who has been following South African politics and reading all she could since the mid-sixties. But this film is about more than a game, it is the magic of Mandela and his shrewd and wise perception that sports can be a uniting force, and he played it for all it was worth, and the beginning of a great, united South Africa came to be, and at a very pivotal point in South Africa's history.

Of course there is much more than the Springboks game involved in this film. As in real life, there was more to Mandela's presidency ending apartheid, and his most herculean task was to draw all peoples together in a spirit of forgiveness, redemption, and the Afrikaner Springboks represented all Afrikaners in this effort, and that was key in succeeding.  Mandela believes that sometimes in order to create a new nation people have to work with people they don't like, or even trust!

In the film, Mandela gives a poem to the Springbok Captain. "Invictus", the famous poem by William Ernest Henley and though it's not mentioned in Mandela's own autobiography or even in the book "Playing the Enemy," Eastwood takes a liberty by making it Mandela's comfort and strength while in prison. It may well have been so, as it is for anyone who lives under such horrible conditions.

Please, please, if you like the film, buy the book on Amazon, as well. It is even better to read and savor.  I will be reviewing the book as well.