A documentary that I saw mentioned Peckinpah had a problem with heavy cocaine use, so that may help to explain biizarre films like Pat Garrett And Billy The Kid, and Cross Of Iron. I'd been wanting to see to see this movie for a few years and finally bought it. James Mason is among my favorite actors, I'm also a big fan of James Coburn and David Warner. Unfortunately, they are all wasted in this muddled war flick.
  Corporal Steiner (James Coburn) is a decorated soldier who is loved and respected by his men. Captain Stransky (Maximilian Schell) a Prussian aristocrat who wants an Iron Cross and doesn't care how he gets it. After a Russian attack, Stransky claims to have led the counter attack and puts himself in for an Iron Cross. Steiner and others know it was a different officer who led the counter attack.
  After being wounded during the attack, Steiner wakes up at an army hospital. At which, we see a general congratulate the wounded and then walk off with the meat and fruit ment for the soldiers. Then Pecinpah trys to make a bad Pink Floyd video of the men eating and playing with the vegetables. And a hot looking nurse decides to sleep with Steiner, who looks old enough to be her grandfather.
Another scene has Steiner and his men escaping Russian forces after being deserted by their own army, thanks to Captain Stransky. On the way to the new German lines they capture some Russian women, they decide to leave the youngest/newest guy to watch the prisoners while the others do who knows what. One of the girls plays up to the kid and then kills him, the Germans then force all the women into the barn and leave them with a nazi that forced one girl to give him head (big mistake), Steiner then tells the Russian leader "now we're even". Even how??? Then the Germans try to get back to their own army, thankfully the Russian women never get out of the barn and call for help.
 They make it back to their own lines to be shot at by their fellow Germans (on Stransky's orders), Steiner and 2 of his men survive. Steiner then finds Stransky and leads him to "where the Iron Crosses grow".
Mason and Warner are good in their supporting roles but overall, I thought the story progressed slowly and I often found myself loosing interest.