Given our on-line "Amazonian" context; this will be almost as much a review of the other reviews as it is about "Midnight Express". &lt;G>

Pure and simple.  If you have never witnessed this classic of a movie; it's a must see.  If you have seen it; like a good book, it's well worth periodically revisting.

The controversey about the portrayal of Turks and Turkey is mostly nonsense.  Only a fool would generalize from a Hollywood movie loosely based on a book to conclude that Turkey is (or was) an awful uncivilized place or that the Turkish people are all monsters. Human affairs just aren't that simple.

The kinds of inhumane abuses portrayed in "Midnight Express" are happening all over the world all the time...I dare say there are many dark corners in the US prison system in which people are shafted in all manner of ways.

What this movie does as well as anything I've ever seen on screen is to evoke in the viewer an empathetic respose to the hell that the main character suffers.  You are drawn into the inner world experience of horror and mind/heart breaking angst that anyone who is being unjustly imprisoned and abused must go through.

Fortunately, one can also be drawn into the righteous rage and defiance and rekindling of hope that the on screen Billy Hayes portrays so stunningly.  The scene in which he is visited in prison by his loyal loving girlfriend is a wrenching work of Art.

The crtiques calling this film "manipulative" are absurd; that's what good movies are *supposed* to do.....otherwise it's just light on a screen.  I suspect that some people can't, or won't, handle the intensity of this masterpiece. There are also those who see it as nothing more than a manifestation of anti-Turkish propaganda.  It's a shame that these poor folk can't get beyond their own fixations and limitations.

"Midnight Express" is, in it's best moments, a stunningly wonderful celebration of the human spirit of love AND of the imperative toward freedom and justice that is at the very core of human be-ing.  It is *those* moments in the film (and in life! ;-) that make it worthwhile/possible to bear (and struggle with) all manner of  hellacious circumstances.

Contrary to superficial appearances "Midnight Express" is a positive uplifting affimation of life that deserves to seen and appreciated for generations to come.