This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The plot is amazing, the characters are deep and well developed, and the flow is excellent.

 Selma Blair as Cecile. A naiive, sweet, and virginal girl who just wants someone to look up to. More specifically, Kathryn. She just does what she is told and is sweet for that reason. The fact that she is so very naiive makes her funny as well. The scene at Mrs. Rosemont's with Kathryn is absolutely perfect.

 Reese Witherspoon as Annette. Annette is virtuous and chaste, but firm in her beliefs. She gets wind of Sebastian and tries to make herself stay away from him. Not an easy task. A self-professed virgin till marriage, Annette doesn't trust herself with Sebastian (and rightly so). By the end, she is a strong woman, not the little girl who wrote a "manifesto" for Seventeen.

 Ryan Phillippe as Sebastian Valmont. Sebastian is coniving, decietful, and charming; every girls dream and worst nightmare. He makes a point of destroying girls and thier reputations. He refers to them as "insipid Manhattan debutantes." He decides his next conquest will be his greatest, and is determined to win a bet conceived with Kathryn. He is determined not to get emotional, which is usually his strong point. But something about Annette gets to him, and he can't get past it. In the end he, like Annette, has changed.

 Sarah Michelle Gellar as Kathyn Merteiul. This may be the finest example of perfect casting. Although being a huge fan of hers may make me biased, anyone can see she plays the part perfectly. Like Sebastian, Kathryn is coniving and decietful; but unlike Sebastian, she doesn't change. She enjoys making trouble while mantaining a facade of being "a lady." Student Body President at Manchester, she must set an example for all those who look up to her. Including Cecile. She befriends Cecile in order to get back at an ex-boyfriend, and ends up making quite the mess of Cecile's life. Though she is evil in a sense, Kathryn is also quite misunderstood. She explains it all in a wonderfully written and spoken speech that is both honest and eloquent.

 The plot of this movie is sharp and inventive. Yes, it is based on another movie, which was based on a book, but the twist of making all the characters high school students was absolutely brilliant.

 With some...uh, interesting scenes, and Ryan Phillippe nudity to boot, this movie is the best one I have seen in a long time. One of few movies that I can watch over and over again and not get sick of. An absolute gem.