This movie is a sheer and distinct case study.
The case is, the lonesome by choice and by profession, anti-hero Harry Caul, a private surveillance expert and his own paranoid very blocked world.
The title refers to the task he has been assigned to, to record a conversation between two people in a crowded square during a lunch time break. He succeeded in his mission at first, but when he tried to live inside his task, he failed in his life.
I recommend you; do not criticize this deliberately slow going movie while it is running.
This movie moves like flowing molasses. It reveals its own layers and secrets with each going moment, get assured that you will be completely satisfied when it ends.
Consider how close the director succeeded in creating  the sense of the overwhelming paranoia, at first you get skeptic, asking if Caul is overacting in his cautious way of life, then you get yourself skeptic too, imagining the number of conspirators surrounding him and may have roles in the crime. 
The movie depends on the understanding of the screenplay by its creators.
The theme concentrates on longing to, retrieving, and then consequently the losing of believes; in love, personal capabilities and maybe in religious believes.
Look for the motive that began all this conflicts. It is the search for love.
The love he observed between the two young people of his surveillance task.
The love that moved him backward towards his past, in feeling the guilt towards the victims of his previous tasks,
And forward towards his search for love and meaning.
This motive that reminded him of the necessity being human, of asking questions about nature if his job. Is it just to be a delivery man or to be like an artist who reacts with the elements of his art work, the motive to be an insider instead of being an outsider. 
And then comes the revelation and its consequences, when he realizes how far he was wrong, fragile and unsafe.
So he chooses to surrender and escape to his last (maybe) safe refuge, his own saxophone.
Just like its music score, this movie goes like a classical music piece.
With perfect tempo and without one unnecessarily line. 
Notice these two considerable key scenes.
1-While the conversation between Hackman and Ford in the convention, there is that man, who carries a Saxophone which might or not be tapped, might or not be replaced by the one in the Caul's apartment. And the latter is might or not be the only thing that could be tapped and left without checking in Caul's apartment.
2- Caul's dream vision of the hotel room no.773 is as the same as in the real hotel. We cannot assume that the director was very conservative about the money spent on locations. But of course it was meant to be like that, in order to implement the dreamy reality of the final act of this movie.