One of the blockbuster movies of 1997, and nominated for seven Academy Awards, " As Good As It Gets" is a hilarious slant on romantic comedies.  It's the story of an obsessive-compulsive writer and his gradual reformation to normalcy through the love of a waitress.  Jack Nicholson, Helen Hunt, Greg Kinear, and Cuba Gooding Jr. star in this very funny approach to the life of Melvin Udall.  Melvin Udall (Jack Nicholson) is a wealthy writer of romance novels, but has no idea how to treat anyone with respect or compassion and  romance in Melvin's life seems like an impossibility.  He is homophobic, racist, and to top it all off sexist.  Melvin is downright mean spirited and very crude to his gay artist neighbor Simon Bishop (Greg Kinear) while dealing with him.  The insults and verbal jabs at Simon continue for the entire movie, even though Melvin eventually befriends him.  The language and anti-gay dialogue is definitely not for the family oriented movie watcher, but in the context of this film it is truly funny.  Frank Sachs (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is an art broker and the only buffer from the abuse from Melvin continuously heaves onto Simon.  You guessed it Melvin eludes further to his flawed character by putting Frank in the stereotypical angry black man role.  Frank is smart and plays on Melvin's fear of him and puts him in his place several times throughout the movie.  Melvin's' love interest in this film is Carol Connelly (Helen Hunt) who is a full time waitress and single parent to a sick child.  Melvin will not allow any other waitress to serve him due to his disorder and starts to slowly creep into Carol's life.  He finds out about Carols sick son and provides in-home medical care for him so that Carol is able stay at work to serve him.  Melvin continuously does things that are self serving, but still are beneficial to the people he is so abrasive to, and these people are able to see some good in him.  Carol does start to have romantic feelings for Melvin, and he slowly starts to lose a bit of his compulsive behavior and finds new friends in the most unlikely of people.  This film will not tickle everyone's funny bone, and I can't recommend it to younger viewers due to the language and off color humor.  I do think that a good many people will enjoy this movie and to see Jack Nicholson in this role was a real treat to watch.  I rate this film at 4 stars and would give 5 if it were not for the language and crude humor.