So many people wanted to like this movie, and so few did. So few really seem to understand what Wes Anderson does. Why is that? People aren't stupid, they just have preconceptions. People go to see a Wes Anderson movie, thinking they're going to see a comedy. This movie isn't a comedy. It's a highly idiosyncratic drama that happens to be funny. If people approached him that way, I think they'd leave happier. To be fair, the trailers for this movie were horrible: they chopped it up and tried to make it look like something it wasn't: a comedy.

Wes Anderson is that rarest of filmmakers: subtle. He also manages to be idiosyncratic and clever without being derivative, crass, expoitative, or facile. You know, like Quentin Tarantino, Hack of the Century. It's no surprise that Tarantino's best film, Jackie Brown, is the one that most eschews the stylistic tics he's best known for. I actually enjoy his films, but he's had the unfortunate side effect of creating a vast undead legion of imitators. For that alone, he's the worst thing to happen to film in many many years. QT's films are essentially the cinema equivalent of Bazooka Joe: a plastic brick wrapped in a shiny, appealing wrapper.  Anyway, this review is supposed to be for Tenenbaums...

Like most Anderson films, this is about fathers and families, and it's remarkably sensitive. Don't make the mistake of seeing only the eccentricities: those are just a storytelling technique. This movie is ultimately about squandered potential, self-sabotage, and that painful realization that you're NOT a genius. The Tenenbaums had the childhood we all though we deserved: adulation and recognition. They lost it, and the film is really about coming to terms with that loss, and constructing an identity outside of those unreal expectations. For Royal, it's about reclaiming something he gave away, something his self-image kept him from knowing that he wanted. The point is that all too often it takes staggering, heart-breaking failure before we'll really confront ourselves.

The various quirks of the characters, while well drawn and amusing, are there for a purpose: they are magnifications of the idiosyncrasies we all have. Dramatically, they also save it from being yet another of those student-film talky "family dysfunction" movies. Despite their cartoonish natures, I find the interaction of the characters much more true to life than most such dramas.

Anderson is a remarkable director: his attention to detail and ability to sympathize with the characters, as well as wring the most from his actors, is truly admirable. But he's best as a writer. The script, just as in Rushmore, is remarkably subtle. All the conversations are oblique and rich in subtext. Again, this is so important: pay attention to people, and you realize that we seldom ever say exactly what we're thinking, and when we do, we may not really mean it. Nothing in this film is unmotivated, random, or false. And most importantly, the style, which is pronounced, serves the story, not vice versa.

If you're sick of McMovies, music videos blown up to 90 minutes, and trivia rants mixed with violence and served up as cinema, by all means check out this movie. If you think Reservoir Dogs was the best thing to ever happen to film, pass on by, and God help you.