As a younger person who's missed many of the "older" movies (like "The King and I") I can only see movies for the works they  are -- I do not have older works in my repertoire through which to compare,  contrast and filter my viewing experience.
Having just viewed Anna &amp;  the King both in letterbox and cropped views (I prefer letterbox, though  smaller on a screen, the camera work and screenplay are absolutely  stunning, and missing these outer details does detract from the mood of the  picture), I greatly enjoyed the storyline, the actors, and the  cinematography.
Admittedly Jodie Foster's English accent is a bit forced,  but I commend her ability to retain it consistently throughout the picture  (as opposed to some actors who've been unable to do so, regardless, they  did receive outstanding reviews for their performance, nonnative accent  notwithstanding).  I felt Jodie's portrayal as being prim and well-educated  was very accurate given the time period -- what is considered acceptable  today would have been considered absolutely abhorrent in Anna's time.  We  seem to forget that so many things considered perfectly fine today, simply  weren't done in the mid-1800's, particularly in the ultra-traditionalized  societies like those of England and Siam (to name two).  American attitudes  have been long considered far fringe by non-Western societies around the  world, both then and today.
I found the choice of actors for Siam  characters to be appropriate and believable.  The character portrayals were  deep and true.  I felt as though I was watching people, getting to know  them, not watching actors playing roles.  The transitions of time and space  were effective and I didn't find myself yearning for "missed  pieces."  
The love story caught me by surprise.  I found it deeply  moving and the tension between Anna, and the King, and the careful play of  the King's other wives, to be wonderful.  I strained to hear every word and  catch every expression.  I appreciated the dialog and found the scenes  well-written, appropriately succinct and yet adequately played to offer a  "newcomer" like me an appreciation of the many issues which  underlay the story.  
This movie tugged at my heartstrings, as I watched  these people and families grow and come to love together, and I was moved  to tears repeatedly.  Watching a deep love grow between Anna and the King,  a love borne of respect and intelligence and attraction, watching them  balance their societal dictates with the concerns of country, politics and  their feelings for one another -- and of course all those beautiful  children -- was like watching a gentle dance of butterflies on a summer's  breeze.  I felt it was beautifully written and beautifully played.  
I  give it a "thumbs up" for the actors, directorship, costuming and  cinematography.  Definitely a movie worth seeing!