I was awaiting this movie for months. I was sure I'd love it completely. Jane Austen's novel is one of my favorite pieces of literature and Gurinder Chadha's previous film, Bend It Like Beckham, blew me away. While I will say it is unfair to compare this film to Chadha's "Beckham" and on that alone condemn it, it is certainly true that because of the brilliant and well-formed work she did there, I found "Bride" to be a double disappointment.

I am a fan of musicals. I am a fan of Pride and Prejudice. I am a fan of Gurinder Chadha's previous work. I am a lover of Indian culture. By all rights, I should have adored this. I am fairly confident that had it been it's own, original story I would have.  But it seemed to me that the film spent too much time and too much of the actors' skills on trying to fit into the "Pride & Prejudice" mold and got so tangled up in its own plot, it had nothing to do but...splat.

Make no mistake, it was a beautiful, colorful, effusive, musical, and altogether lovely looking splat...but a splat nonetheless. In the book "Pride & Prejudice", Elizabeth's dislike of Darcy is perfectly warranted (prejudiced, yes, but warranted just the same). In the film, her Indian counterpart was simply overreacting. "Darcy" never really does anything to draw the viewer's ire and "Elizabeth" spends much of the film doing nothing more than acting like a spoilt child (a waste of the acting talent Indian model/actress Aishwarya Rai has) unless of course, she's singing. Indeed, the musical numbers were for me one of the only parts of the movie I could stop being annoyed. They were truly wonderful, full of color, culture, creative choreography and top notch vocals (though at times more cloying that charming). Throughout the rest of the movie, however, it was as if, for some inexplicable reason (perhaps to draw in a larger audience?) the filmakers tried to force the Pride and Prejudice plot on Bride and Prejudice characters, which simply weren't compatible. As a female friend of mine commented after watching: "I liked Darcy from the beginning--Darcy! You aren't supposed to like him from the first! You're supposed to be upset with him for insulting Elizabeth and being a stuck-up prat." Indeed, Lalita is the one who is both proud and prejudiced, enough so for the both of them; Darcy's just caught in the middle, a likeable if not slightly bumbling American with a detestable, materialistic, Queen Bee archetype for a mother.

In conclusion, the musical numbers were fantastic (if you go for that sort of thing), I enjoyed seeing "Lost" star Naveen Andrews as Balraj Bingley, and the man portraying the equivalent of Mr. Collins (whose name I am, regrettably unsure of--I believe it is Nitin Ganatra, though don't hold me to that) was satisfyingly unlikeable. However, the plot was forced, at the loss of credibility and character development, and I was left wondering what in the world went wrong with a movie I was so destined to enjoy. Ah, such is life I suppose. And it is a truth universally acknowledged that the more you "know" you're going to love something, the more likely you are to be let down.

My real rating is closer to 2 and 3/4 stars: not quite enough for a full three, not bad enough for only two, but since I'm an optimist I went with 3. ;)

The final word:  Rent first! Buy it if you're charmed by all means. It seems if you actually take the time to watch it (and aren't forced to do so like my male, teenage cousin who fake-gags everytime you mention but the title) you come out with one of the following opinions:  Either you love it and must own it (like my  sister) or, find that while you liked parts of it, the parts you didn't like eclipse the ones you did leaving you glad you watched it once, but too let down to watch it again.

The REAL Final Word:  A thank you to Gurider Chadha for doing what she does. She is wonderful at it...and despite my less-than-happy feelings towards this film, I am certainly still looking forward to her next one.