All the friends' opinions were positive. The leading cast added a sense of insurance. The name of the director was without any doubt promising. Despite the demanding label of "political thriller", having taken into consideration all the ingredients above, I was convinced that Arlington Road would offer me an enjoyable time.
I admit that I finished viewing the movie with a feeling of disappointment and disbelief. To be fair, there is not doubt that Arlington Road provides a great dosage of suspense throughout its duration. But if you make the mistake and try to think of what you just saw, after the end titles, everything seems to fall apart.
The basic character of our story is Michael Faraday (Jeff Bridges). He is working as a professor of political history, with terrorism being its main focus. This, combined with the loss of his wife caused by a wrong judgment by FBI, renders him particularly sensitive to relevant stimuli. We can sense from the beginning that his fragile psyche will play an important role as the story evolves. After a strong opening sequence we see Faraday developing friendly relations with his new neighbors. Until the day an unexpected event puts doubts in his clouded mind. The question is clear: Are his neighbors involved in a terrorist group? That was it. Arlington Road now resorts to a series of easy clich&eacute;s. Its obvious purpose is to surprise the viewer with the known plot twist of the neighbor who is not as innocent as we thought at the beginning - or could he be innocent, after all?
Tim Robbins gives a satisfactory performance in the role of the mysterious neighbor. On the other hand, Jeff Bridges, whose role as the "Dude" in Big Lebowski was absolutely amazing, here constantly gave me an impression of being over the top: his performance featured numerous hysteric reactions and grimaces. Some viewers may explain them based on Faraday's unstable mental condition; nevertheless they failed to convince me.
Director Mark Pellington does a more than adequate job with the script he has in his hands. Still, he is capable for a lot more things as revealed by his next and undoubtedly better creation, Mothman Prophecies.
I will conclude with a short comment regarding the highly praised film's closing sequence. Without revealing anything, here is what crossed my mind when watching it: Each of the terrorists should have had at least 3 Ph.D. degrees in Psychology. Only such collected knowledge would enable them to predict with the shown accuracy the reactions of so many people on so many occasions. If that was not the case, then I hope that they purchased a few lottery tickets the same day, since their success would have been certain!