In my opinion, the crucial thing about Platoon is that the movie has as little to do with Vietnam War, as Nietzsche's Zarathustra with the ancient Persia (a crude analogy, but that's the first that comes to mind). Platoon gives the metaphor for a man in the concrete jungle, how he gets his experience and loses his innocence, how he finds his place in the life. Platoon is O.Stone's symbolic and sensual insight into the human soul and psyche - much deeper and realistic than Freudian, Jungian or religious ones. Platoon has a rich philosophy combining the Western and the Oriental, the Antique and the Modern, the Personal and the Universal.

For example, the allusions to Homer (with Barnes as Achilles and Elias as Patrocles) suggest not only that these principal characters shouldn't be taken just as a Good Sarge /a bad Sarge, but also that not much changed in the world since the times of the Trojan War - greed, lies and ambition starting the wars, nobody winning them after all. "There's no remembrance of the former generations...", indeed.

Returning to Barnes and Elias, another line from Ecclesiastes can be remembered as well: "There is a time and season for EVERY thing done under the heaven... A time to kill and a time to heal... A time to love and a time to hate... A time for war and a time for peace". Machiavellian morale can hardly be blamed when you not only risk your own life, but also are in charge of the soldiers who trust you. The original script tells "The Devil does God's work too", and it wasn't good of the editor to cut it off the film. Barnes goes off the limits - that's true. But through Tom Berenger's brilliant acting, mind the expression in his eyes when he sees his guys killed - is he really so ruthless? His famous words "When the machine breaks down, we break down" are blamed as regarding a soldier in terms of a machine gun. But if you ever led or ruled people and were responsible for them, if you ever were at the head of an organization, you'll get the truth of the idea. If any of your people doesn't do what he's told, the machine (the organization) really breaks down. The difference is that the war suggests much graver results when "we break down".

Another line from the script reads "[Elias] is as crazy as Barnes". In fact, the two have much in common, both being strong-willed loners (Elias extraversial, Barnes introversial), both having their own moral principles, both having their own concept of justice (none of which can be called wrong). And the final of the drama is as inevitable as the death itself, because both Barnes and Elias belong completely to the war and have no way home - Elias facing the drug rap and having lost his faith, Barnes poisoned with his hatred which isn't so unjustified. Look at his face - is it possible for him to find place in the further "normal" life? How many of you would be able to forgive the enemy who had done THAT to you (and mind that he was shot SEVEN times). I've got a 4-inch scar on my body and I can tell much about the way it changes your life and views. I think Barnes has the moral right to make "Inter arma silent leges" (laws are silent beside the arms) his personal credo. If you are so sure to judge him, just imagine if you were him and could revenge. I can hardly believe, as much as I know people, that somebody would "turn the other cheek" and follow any other commandments but his own concepts of what is right and what is wrong. After all, Chris gave himself up to revenge, too. And Barnes won. As to Elias, Nietzsche said "God died because of his love to people". No comments.

I don't justify Barnes - it's just the idea that the Good and the Evil are not as simple as it may seem. The Light and the Darkness are in any of us. Platoon suggests we can learn them in us and find strength to manage them. That's the only way to be the master of your own life and fate.