I just watched A Serbian Film. I can't recommend everyone see it - it is hard to watch, sick and twisted, and as absolutely brilliant as  Gaspar No&eacute;'s Irreversible.

This movie (covered in previous reviews) has a story, and a damned good one - I expected to see a flick that was one gross-out after another, and while there are some truly horrific scenes, the story is constructed beautifully and does a great job of showing how the main character falls so far.

In an odd way it reminded me of Boogie Nights - a movie that deals with adult subject matter in an adult way, starts out almost light-hearted, and then takes a dark turn. Of course the dark turns in this movie are very dark indeed.

I'm amazed how many prudes flipped out over the graphic nature of this film when all the sex is simulated. There are 'art house' films that have gotten rave reviews and have actual hardcore scenes and not much story beyond the sex. And as for those who complained about the film's sexualization of children, have any of those people watched any music videos by young female performers lately? Turning young teens into harlots is a booming cash business.

People will watch said art house movies and enjoy them. People will watch movies like Saw and enjoy them. For some reason people get upset when you mix the two together. Let's face it, most of the violent scenes in this film are cartoonishly over the top, and any scenes involving children are implied or faked. Brook Shields appeared nude in Pretty Baby when she was 12 freaking years old and the critics LOVED it. Nothing like that is seen in A Serbian Film.

As for this movie presenting sickening scenes, as I said, it is all fake, it's a MOVIE. The REAL thing is happening every day in every town, all you have to do is turn on the news to see that. You want to complain about something, how about fixing the foster care system where real horrors happen all the time?

The climactic castration scene from Hostel 2 is available for everyone, including children, to view on Youtube. It is THE most realistically graphic violent scene I've ever seen in a movie, and it is on Youtube, uncensored. Where is the outrage over THAT? In fact, the violent scenes in the Hostel flicks are far more grotesque than anything seen in A Serbian Film. Yet people rage against this movie that has a great story, wrenching scenes, a fantastic cast, and brilliant cinematography, and it's a film structured so pictures tell most of the tale and the subtitles are unobtrusive.

If you can handle a trip into the extremely dark side of human nature, you might be surprised by how good this film is.