While I was growing up, my dad owned a restaurant. I learned early on that the most interesting place to be was in the kitchen with the cooks. Not only were there great smells and the occasional morsel of food to be had, but also the intermittent scrap of overheard adult conversation, spiced with local gossip and experiences that young ears were probably not supposed to hear.  The kitchen was certainly never boring. The cooks put me to work doing all sorts of elementary tasks like peeling vegetables and helping make deserts and, in payment, I learned a lot of colorful information about the outside world. I also learned how to cook.  Many years have passed. They are all gone now and I miss them terribly, especially when I'm in my own kitchen cooking as I do now quite often. It's no fun cooking by oneself.
  Now something delightful has happened. After many years of absence from television, a comprehensive compilation has been made of the smash 1990's BBC cooking show, The Two Fat Ladies, and it is available for American audiences to buy.  I find that I can go into my kitchen, slip  one of my four new DVDs of the Two Fat Ladies into my computer, and cook with ladies very much like my former idols.  The two fat ladies are the late Jennifer Paterson, a spirited lady who spent her life living in many different corners of the world both as a privileged member of the British upper class and as a cook, caterer, and eventually food writer for the Spectator.  She relates the most remarkable stories from her past and has the tendency to sing an occasional show tune or pub song, or recite a childhood poem.  Clarissa Dickson Wright is her down to earth complement. Early circumstances for her also included maids, cooks, butlers, and travel. Both women are able to bring to the screen a multitude of cultural dishes with a side dish of entertainment similar to that provided to me in my childhood.
  Each week, the beginning of the show features Jennifer, driving her trademark BSA motorcycle, with Clarissa sitting beside her in the sidecar, to some of the most picturesque parts of the English or Scottish countryside. After arriving at their destination, they are given the use of a remarkable kitchen, sometimes in a century old building complete with the quintessential Aga stove. In those kitchens, the two ladies turn out sumptuous meals using enough butter, double cream and lard to send people conscientious of their fat intake away screaming.  In the process they are delightful.  Along with watching them making wonderful looking meals, one is treated to an occasional history of food, utensils or ingredients; weekly trips into the country to buy farm fresh ingredients; local folklore; royal gossip and a lexicon of pre 20th Century measuring terms that have always given the serious measurer fits: a `slop' of cream, a `touch,' a `slurp' and a `splash' of this and that.  For anyone who loves to hang around in kitchens, The Two Fat Ladies is not to be missed.