In Francis Ford Coppola's cleverly written sequel, The Godfather, Part II, the audience is shown through flashbacks the differences between the two heads of the family, Vito and Michael. The movie begins in 1901 with Vito being a child with his mother begging for his life in Sicily right after his father and brother were killed. Vito narrowly escapes that dark Sicilian scene after his mother's death to an overwhelmingly bright America. The lighting in the scenes, especially the first and last, help portray the deeper, more emotional side of the Corleone family. The scene in Sicily was made out to be a dark place full of deceit, where as when Vito first came to America it was extremely bright- a symbol for hope and goodness. Vito worked hard for the American dream, but remembered his Italian heritage. In this part it was made clear why it was so important to Vito in the original to have friendship because many people helped him out when he first arrived in the United States. Vito worked hard to become what he became while earning the respect of many.  The history of Vito is intertwined with that of Michael's life in 1958. As Michael loses more and more family members he changes for the worse. He lives for a life of action and reaction in the world of revenge. This is such a major change from the first film. Who would have thought that Michael would have turned out the way that he did? To change from a respectable military man who fought valiantly for his country to the head of the Corleone mafia family. Another strong theme in this movie was the loyalty issue. Everyone thought that they could double cross Michael and get away with it because didn't truly earn the position of "Don," it was just bestowed upon him by his father. That in its own respect made Michael turn out to be a little unforgiving. The acting in this film was truly superior to any other movie out there. Talia Shire played the part of Connie Corleone phenomenally. In a scene near the beginning where she is asking Michael for money you can feel her uneasiness. The part of Tom Hagen was a tricky one because throughout the whole movie you aren't sure what side anyone is on(especially Tom) and Robert Duvall played it perfectly. John Cazale played Fredo Corleone, the imbecile who no matter how hard he tried, couldn't get a thing right. First he makes you laugh, then he makes you hate him, then he makes you feel sorry for him. The role of Kay Corleone is played by Diane Keaton who gives a better performance than in the first. This can be plainly seen in every scene that she has with Michael because you can actually feel her pain. Robert De Niro plays the young Vito and does it with a lot of spunk, there is no doubt this man is an Oscar winner. The best performance of the whole movie is that of Al Pacino playing the ever changing role of Michael Corleone. Pacino proves he is a very versatile actor changing from warm, honest, and loyal in the original to cold, unforgiving, and suspicious in the second. One thing that I learned from The Godfather: Part IIwas that there are two sides to every face, whether it be light or dark.