Wyatt Earp came out around the same time as Tomb Stone.  It seemed that Tomb Stone over shadowed Wyatt Earp for some reason but I much preferred Wyatt Earp.  Dennis Quad is a much better Doc Holiday than Val Kilmer.  In fact, as much as I like Kilmer him being Doc Holiday was one of the things that kept Tomb Stone from appealing to me.  On the other hand, Quad's Doc Holiday is one of Wyatt Earp's strong points.  Kostner is excellent in this role.  He is able to show Wyatt's personality changes throughout the movie as events effect his life.  This is a long movie but it has a good pace that makes the three plus hours go by quickly.  Not as well as Pearl Harbor did but not bad.  Even though the movie is long, and they cover a lot of territory, I couldn't help feeling that there were some holes left unfilled here and there.  Like, how did we get from point A to point D, what happened to B and C.  Overall, I really like Wyatt Earp and that's why it's in my collection.  One other thing worth mentioning about this movie is the fact that the famous shoot out at the O K Corale, is just that, a shoot out.  In older movie versions based on Wyatt Earp or the famous shoot out had it being a long drawn out battle with people taking cover etc.  I don't know which is more historically accurate but the difference stood out to me.

Now this is not a new movie but it is new to Blu-ray.  It carries a budget price which makes this movie an excellent value.  The Blu-ray video quality is very good on this movie.  Just notice the detail in the early scene where Wyatt as a boy is running through the corn field.  The audio is on par with modern movies as well.  You aren't going to get a lot of effects like a Star Wars movie but the sound is good.  Not tinny or thin sounding like some older movies that get transferred to a new format.  I'm interested in hearing how Disney deals with this issue on their remasters of very old movies being released again on Blu-ray.

If some how Wyatt Earp missed your VCR when first released and you like Westerns, this is a must see movie.  If you are looking to add a title to your beginning Blu-ray collection, Wyatt Earp is a fine example of the format and at about half the price of most new releases you can't go wrong.