This review is specific to the of Buster Keaton's the General produced by Allied Artists version, the one found in the Buster Keaton Collection by St Clair vision, and those by Kino.  I won't bother to discuss the story, others do an incredibly good job of that, this review is limited to technical issues.

Finding a full length copy of the General can be a serious problem for a silent film aficionado.  I have long regarded this as the best silent movie  and wanted a perfect copy of the original full length film at 105 minutes long, unfortunately every quality copy I could find is an abridged 75 - 78 minutes long.  Some people have attempted to explain the difference in speed as the cameraman's decision to run the reels faster or slower, but quite frankly a speed differential of 40% due the enthusiasm of the cameraman was a little hard to believe.  I later did a side by side comparison and found over 200 differences where I could find cuts in footage. The movie seems to have either been cut differently for American and International audiences or the surviving 35mm version was abridged for televised broadcast when they first started playing silent movies on the tube.  I have been able to discover that the 105min version was preserved on a 16mm reel found in either Australia or New Zealand, this 98 minute Allied Artists version  comes from a Spanish 16mm reel; and the 75 minute versions by Kino and others come from the remaining 35mm reels found in the States.  It would be nice to know what theater audiences originally saw in the U.S. but information from the era is sketchy and best guess is that they watched the short version. I have found writings which claim that American audiences of the 1920's preferred movies to be around 70 minutes long while International audiences preferred longer films. One thing which influences the review, I have a personal preference for original organ scores because the original artists tended to understand the importance of music to a movie and gave it a lot of thought, music is key to setting the mood and tone of any silent movie.

The Allied Artists version of the General rated one star because there is no sound track.  Someone at Allied needed to pay more attention to production details.  I could live with the movie originating from a 16mm pressing since the full version of the movie is not available in a high quality print, considering the origins it is clean.  When it comes to sound; however, the case clearly states "dolby stereo", which is a near universal format and there is no sound track whatsoever.  I ran some rather sophisticated anaylsis on the disc to make sure I didn't have an equipment compatibility issue - and it just isn't there.  This is an unforgivable lapse, and more than a little deceptive.  Others on the net have made this observation as well so I don't believe the problem is limited to my disc.  Face it, Dolby Stereo silence is not a big draw when purchasing a silent movie.

The Buster Keaton Collection by St Clair Vision contains a lesser version of the full 105 minute movie and would also rate one star but for different reason.  They appeared to have a random classical music soundtrack.  How they thought Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance" (most know it as graduation music) could be be applied to an American war movie is beyond me.  Its use is sloppy and indicates a lack of thought.  The music is jarring and ruins this most worthy of films.  Again you wind up watching the film truly "Silent".

So I am still left watching the short but visually and symphonically perfect Kino pressings.  Most of the Kino Releases are perfect and this one is no different. Kino provides multiple musical scores depending on ones taste and they offer the best visuals available.  I gave them four stars because I wish they would produce a full length version of the General, but otherwise there is little I can say that would result in a better product.

Lastly, the film is based on a book written around 1898 by  Lieut. William Pittenger "Daring and Suffering: A History of the Great Railway Adventure (aka The Great Locomotive Chase)"  a fictionalized account of the Andrews Raiders attempted sabotage of the Confederate Railway System.  Historically this raid was itself a fascinating story. I have never seen a copy of the book.