WARNING: SPOILERS

First things first: this movie is insane. Between the brutal violence, some of the most disturbing imagery ever put to film (girl getting raped by a tree, anyone?), and mind-blowing camera work, this movie is a totally mad ride. And it's one darn awesome ride. This is one of the very few horror films that actually disturbed me. And that's something that I always like in a horror film. This film is friggin' freaky. Lets rate by category, shall we?

1: Story: 9/10
  The story, while simple and kind of contrived, is very good simply because of the way that it is told. The story is simple: 5 college students go on vacation to an abandoned log cabin in the woods. While there, they discover a tape recorder that explains the book of the dead, and recites the passages. Turns out, that allows demons to posses the living, and all hell breaks loose. Eventually, only Ash Williams (Bruce Campbell) left, and he destroys them by burning the book. This leads to our next subject.

2: Special effects: 9.5/10
  Holy frikkin' crap. These are some of the best special effects of the 80's, especially when considering the extremely low budget. The ending where Ash burns the book of the dead leads to a beautifully disgusting array of stop motion animation, in which the demons/corpses rapidly decompose in a mess of blood, guts, maggots, and creamed corn. Yes, creamed corn. It's nasty, disgusting, revolting, and totally awesome. Very well done. As for the make-up effects, they are fantastic. They look a tad chalky compared to today's make-up effects, but they still look fantastic and grotesque, and will definitely stick with you for a while. The practical effects (blood, guts, and so on) look fantastic. The budget must have gone straight to the special effects, because they are really good and well done.

3: Musical Score: 10/10
  The musical score, done by Joseph LoDuca, is perfect. Most of it is synthesized, and it fits quite nicely. The score adds to and fits perfectly with the scary and dark, yet fun and entertaining tone. It is perfect for this film.

4: Acting: 9/10
  For the most part, the acting is pretty good for a movie of this genre/caliber, but there are times where the acting does feel forced, but this is only a minor complaint. The acting is quite good most of the time.

Overall score: 10/10

  This is by far the best horror film I have ever seen. Yes, there are some minor complaints, but the good far surpasses the bad. I wholly recommend watching this film, as well as the 2 sequels, Evil Dead 2, and Army Of Darkness. This film is, frankly, awesome. I definitely, wholly, and excruciatingly recommend this amazing film, as well as the totally awesome and 'groovy' sequels.