Apparently I get the impression that if you slam a movie with a bad review, exactly what the vast majority of people here have done with "Hannibal", that it makes you sound like an expert critique of movies.  The sad part is that half of you spell Lecter wrong.  The next time you review a movie maybe you should actually try to sound like you know what you're talking about.  Now...
As much as "Silence" kept most of the gore in the mind or off screen, a lot of you don't realize that Hannibal Lecter is a KILLER.  I wouldn't have been surprised if he had done more than just serve a man's brain as dinner.  I knew and definitely anticipated when I first saw this movie that it wasn't going to just beat around the bush with how gruesome his character was, and I'm glad they didn't.  I'm also glad that they didn't go into any detail concerning Hannibal's childhood as Harris did in the novel.  Putting that on screen would have confused us on whether we should sympathize with this cannibal and his harsh past.  The character works much better as the antihero he is.
I don't think in any way that Hannibal lost his menace from "Silence" at all.  It would have been silly for him to repeatedly pop out of dark corners and eat people.  Some might argue that he does this in the movie, but if you look closely you can see that he never sneaks up on the audience itself so to speak.  The fact is that his character is a calm and calculating killer, not a teenager in a ghost mask brandishing a knife.  What makes him scary is the fact that he might be kissing your hand at an opera one minute and biting your face off the next.
I think it's great that Anthony Hopkins decided to do this movie regardless of the terrible reviews which were definitely inevitable.  As a sequel, it's hard to even consider it one because the storyline is so far removed from where "Silence" left off.  I think people merely came to the conclusion that if Foster, Demme and Tally didn't want a part of it that it must be a bad movie.  Not the case.
I enjoyed the movie, I enjoyed Ridley Scott's direction which didn't turn the movie into a full-out slasher flick but instead gave it a tone worthy of "Hannibal the cannibal", I enjoyed the story, and I also believe that if the movie had gone the direction of the book in the end I wouldn't have minded.  But, in order to have done that the movie would have to have been lengthened by at least two hours.  I have absolutely no problem with the screenplay's ending though, it fits the characters well.
Bottom Line: Hannibal is a good movie, after watching it I said to myself, "I want this movie on DVD", and a lot of people seem to feel the same way regardless of all the uninformed reviews from you people who gave it one star.  Your not fooling the people who UNDERSTOOD this movie and enjoyed it for what it was.