Not caring much for Pulp Fiction at all, I had heard that this was a great film so I casually decided to tape it off of Spike TV late last October (Spike also played RD back to back with Ringo Lam's City on Fire that night) and I must say that I was more than pleasantly surprised at just how good it was. Though presented in non-choronological order like PF, this was a far more straightforward film than PF, which IMO went overboard on the complex, non-chronological story. As they say, simpler is better.

The acting was definitely top-notch, with Harvey Keitel (one of my favorite actors), Steve Buscemi, and Tim Roth (doing an extremely credible American accent) in the roles of their careers. The best performance, though, was Michael Madsen, who is brilliant as the reprehensible Mr. Blonde. No one, I repeat, NO ONE else could have played Mr. Blonde remotely as effectively as Madsen. Tim Roth originally auditioned to be Mr. Blonde (or Mr. Pink), and although he probably would have worked in the role of a psycho, he wouldn't have come close to matching Madsen.

Unfortunately, the ego-centric Tarantino cast himself as Mr. Brown, forgetting that he has no acting talent at all. Thankfully, his character isn't on screen for long, because the way he delivered his lines about Madonna is cringingly bad.

However, RD is otherwise a great film. But beware. It's not light Hollywood entertainment and it's NOT an easy film to watch. The violence is  particularly gut-wrenching, not only the infamous "ear torture" scene, but the brief shot inside the police car that Mr. White shoots up. In this shot, blood is seen squirting everywhere as the dying cops are seen literally exploding from their wounds, shreiking helplessly as the bullets mercilessly slam into them. It's a particluarly gruesome sequence, and it is not your typical clean Hollywood gun violence. It's very realistic and Tarantino doesn't spare anything, reflecting exactly what violent death in the real world is like.

I bought the 2-disc DVD edition the other day and I must say that it is very impressive. The sound quality is absolutely amazing and the bonus features are excellent, especially the interviews with the cast and crew. This edition is definitely worth the money, and is far better than the way it is presented on Spike TV. 'Nuff said.