Yes, it's a Hollywood remake of a Dutch/French "classic". No, it isn't subtitled. Yes, it does have a fantastic cast, most especially the gorgeous and talented Mr Sutherland. And sadly, yes, the ending is bad. 
Let me get one thing off my chest, first of all. This is a remake...in a different language. All you sad acts who compared this to the original probably marked it down because it didn't have subtitles. Face facts guys, you only watch foreign films because it makes you feel clever, therefore any film that dares try and take a subtitled film and put it in a more accessible format can't possibly be good because it brings you down to the level of Hollywood 'plebs'. GET OVER YOUR OWN SELF-INFLATED EGOS!! Why you can't you enjoy a film purely in itself, without your damn incessant comparing using big words. You're not big, you're not clever; you are boring and narrow-minded. Foreign cinema does not broaden your horizons, it merely places you 3 steps higher on an intellectual ladder that exists solely in your own heads. 
I, in my own little head, enjoyed the film. It was good, not brilliant, so I gave it 4 stars mainly to raise the average rating to save it from snobs like you lot. The ending, however, was pure Hollywood stilton but did not taint my enjoyment of the film; I'm not petty like some I could berate. 
The gist of the film, basically, is that Kiefer Sutherland has spent the last three years of his life trying to find his missing girlfriend, Diane (Bullock), who was abducted and subsequently (yes, I know big words too. Foreign film fans beware!!) buried alive by the evil psychopath, Bridges (who acted a little hammily!). Travis plays the new girlfriend who must constantly live in Diane's shadow. As Sutherland gets furhter drawn into this macabre cat-and-mouse game with Bridges, so Travis must try to extricate herself from the situation. 
The finale is fantastic, even gripping, and Sutherland is well on par throughout. My advice? Enjoy the film, forget it's a remake, and if you can't be satisfied with that, stick your head up your own hmm-hmm-hmm and buy the foreign film so that you don't waste mine, and other people's time, with your incessant whinging and ego-boosting. BIG WORDS AND FOREIGN FILMS ARE NOT A SIGN OF INTELLIGENCE!!