With much anticipation, I watched HAPPINESS IS A WARM BLANKET, CHARLIE BROWN with my 4 year old daughter. She's a new fan, but she already loves the gang. I didn't know what WARM BLANKET was going to be about... we just dropped it in and hit play.

What's immediately obvious is that the production is lovingly put together; Striving to emulate the look and feel of 60's era PEANUTS. I really like that. I also like that the effort is made to create a full story, versus some of the story-less vignettes of recent years which are so disappointing.

What I didn't expect, however, is for WARM BLANKET to be so dark. Throughout, Linus is essentially bullied by Lucy and others to part with his trademark blanket. He's near-tortured by the constant threat of loss. (Add to that the relentless bit where Charlie Brown reflects on all of his external pressures!) It gets pretty real. Like Linus, my daughter is blankie-dependent, so she took all of the teasing and desperation to heart. I had to re-assure her that Linus would probably get it back in the end. That made her happy.

Bullying is a pretty hot topic on TV and the internet. But the end theme of these scenarios is how bullying is wrong, or whatever. Whereas here in WARM BLANKET, it's more about validating dependence as a way to get through the day. I'm not opposed to the message, but I know some wise-guy is going to re-dub the footage for youTube. When Charlie Brown sits by Linus' bedside through the night, helping him cope with withdrawal, the cynic in me feels it could easily be heroin Linus is jonesing for. It's not a huge leap.

The story is choppy at times with some non-sequiturs. And Lucy delivers the same punch line twice, "I'll never get married," which falls pretty flat. But I completely support the overall effort. I would love to see more specials in this vein. It felt focused and deliberate and genuine. For instance, I like how they didn't feel obligated to drag out every character... there's no Peppermint Patty anywhere. And Woodstock is barely seen. Let's save them for another story.

Lastly, you could play a drinking game based on whenever someone calls something "stupid." It's used throughout and liberally. It's not the end of the world, but my daughter certainly picked up on it.