In recent years, Clint Eastwood has proven his directorial prowess, with Unforgiven, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, and Mystic River all being crowning achievements.  But Million Dollar Baby surpasses them all in the grandest of ways.  Amazon's featured reviewer hits the nail on the head.  In an age where American cinema seems to require no plot or feeling, only massive budgets and over-the-top explosions, this simple film marks a return to the days when movies could actually mean something, could make you walk away in amazes, and not because you didn't see that side-winding plot twist coming, but because you had just witnessed something so real and candid, so full of loss and so exemplary of human existence that it shook to the core your meaning of what it is to be alive.  And isn't that the intention of art, a truer reflection of life?

The plot is uncomplicated and I'll avoid repeating it.  Suffice it to say that Eastwood and Swank both portray characters that seemingly have nothing left in life.  Not only has Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) just been dumped by his boxing prot&eacute;g&eacute; due to a perceived lack of trust on his part, but he also finds himself hopelessly estranged from his daughter, and every desperate letter he sends to her, self-returned, always finds its way back to his doorstep.  We're never told how long this has been going on or the reasons why, but it seems as if this has played out over the course of lonely and bitter lifetimes.  Maggie Fitzgerald (Swank) has fled from her life at home and like all young people, has only one dream - that her life can actually mean something.  She waits tables, pocketing any edible scraps that might sustain her hunger at night, and in a poignant and at times almost unbearably sincere narration, Morgan Freeman's Eddie "Scrap-Iron" Dupris tells us what is at the foundation of the force that drives Maggie in her quest for greatness.  Her entire life, he tells us, she's known only one thing: "she was trash."

And so as Frankie gradually warms to the idea of coaching a girl boxer and Maggie ascends into greatness, effectively becoming the Great Irish Hope, they develop something their lives have lacked for so long.  For Frankie, Maggie is the daughter who actually admires him, who sees that beneath his ruff exterior and crackling voice lies a man who for years has lived in a bevy of self-guilt, a man who more than needs someone to love him, needs someone to love.  For Maggie, Frankie is the rebirth of the father who sheltered her from the consciousness of her painful reality.  Factor in  "Scrap-Iron" Dupris, haunted by his early years as a black man shedding blood for the bigots in Mississippi and searching for the remnants of his lost career in a mentally handicapped young man who, abandoned on the streets by his step-father, has taken to the idea of becoming a boxer, and calls himself "Danger," and what you have is three people who, through one another, all see the golden opportunity to reinvent their lives and escape their mutual clouds of solitude.  But life rarely makes such a task simple.

Most of the people who find themselves disappointed with Million Dollar Baby watched the film in hopes of seeing another epic boxing story along the lines of Rocky, only with a female lead.  Don't be mislead, yes the forum of this film is boxing, but this is not a movie about boxing.  This is a movie about what it means to be alive, and how one learns to cope with that sentence.  Hands down, this was the best film of 2004.