I remember when this series first came out on weekday afternoons.  I enjoyed it immensely and found lots of laughs and fun stories.  Some of the humor is definitely dated to the early 90s, the culture and personalities of the day, but I think children, youths and adults can still find plenty to enjoy about it.  This series was essentially the beginning of a string of animated hits from Warner Brothers during the 90s television animation revival, roughly coinciding with Disney's launch of a high-quality series of television animated programs.  The writing and music were great, with some stories and characters more memorable than others.  This first volume features some of the most classic episodes that I remember best and most fondly.

However, the transfers on this set are rather poor.  Much poorer than those of Pinky and the Brain and Animaniacs volumes.  They look like transfers from old syndication tapes, the picture being somewhat soft.

Also, during this early period WB was farming out the animation work all over the world.  Most of the studios did good to very good work animating these programs.  Unfortunately one studio seemed to get a disproportionate amount of the work during these early days and did an absolutely terrible job.  Kennedy Cartoons animated and for all intents and purposes ruined large portions of these cartoons and even whole episodes.  How can I describe how unappealing their animation was?  Basically the guilty parties should be hunted down and punished.  How in the world they could receive the model sheets, do their sorry excuse for animation, look at the two in comparison and not see that their product looked like absolute garbage is beyond me.  The characters are consistently off model, with stupid "cigar-chewing" mouths, goofy hand posture, shuffling feet, look like they're squatting on the floor all the time, and bouncing incessantly.  To see this worthless junk animated over the lavishly painted backgrounds of this series is a bit disconcerting.  It's even more egregious, almost criminal, when Kennedy got their dirty mitts on classic characters like Elmer and Bugs for short segments, such as in "Fields of Honey".  I remember tuning in for re-runs of this show after school.  If I saw it was one of the episodes that looked like trash I'd just turn it off.

Mercifully Warner Bros got fed up with the crap Kennedy consistently produced and finally gave them the boot.  Later seasons and later WB series didn't suffer the indignity of being animated by those no-talent hacks.  Here's hoping for future volumes of this series that will feature better animated episodes on the whole and have even more fun memories.