"Freaky Friday?" WOOOOOOOW!!!!! Could there ever be a more original idea than, "switching bodies"? Whoooaaa, groundbreaking!!!  Jamie Lee Curtis and some blonde b*tch nobody cares about play a mother and daughter who have their personalities switched after eating Chinese food. And as e ALLLL know, stuff from other countries is always magical and waaayy kewl!
There is also an impossibly bratty younger brother and a lame attempt at a romance!!! Romance? You mean to tell me this girl is prissy?!? Oh, Nooooo! This girl is COOL! You want to know WHY???  Cause she's in a BAND! Ooooooh! And it's called, "Pink Slip"! Yeah, that's right! Ain't that HEAVY?!? She plays a GUITAR! That means she's "down" with all the Generation X-ers! And as Good Charlotte and Avril Lavigne have proved over and over, anyone and everyone with loud guitars is to be respected, no matter how stupid and juvenile their lyrics are!
A teenage girl who probably thinks cheerleaders are evil!!! WOW! Haven't seen that before in my entire life!!! And of course she has to be rebellious!!! Oh, no! But not rebellious in a threatening way! No, WE CAN'T HAVE THAT!!!! Not rebellious in a way that would make her question organized religion or want to protest the actions of the U.S. government!!! No, only rebellious enough to wear horrible leather jackets and piercings and safety pins and smeared makeup.
Eventually, "Freaky Friday" will become doubtlessly a fascinating document - a frightening insight into the vacuous state and empty-headedness of 21st century culture. Students of the far future will hopefully stare at it in disgust and scratch their heads over its contents. Like another Nsync album. Like another "American Pie" sequel. Like barney the purple dinosaur. Like a soap opera. Like a shopping mall. Like a Nike trainer stamping on a human face forever.
But in the end, truly the saddest part of all this is...it's not even the movie's fault. The ones who bought the tickets, the people seeking to shut out reality and dull their senses with movies so sweet that they cause tooth decay...we customers are the ones to blame. It wasn't this horrible, horrible, HORRIBLE movie's fault for trying its luck at the box office - it was our fault for indulging it.