Tomorrow Never Dies is a great action movie which also succeeds as a Bond film. It follows the Goldfinger formula pretty well and has all the elements Bond fans know and love. M and Moneypenny have much larger parts  than normal, but sadly, Q's scene is rather short. The film is filled with  far more sexual innuendoes than usual; it almost become a Moore film in  that respect. The ads touted non-stop action and the movie delivered in  that aspect. There are more gunfights, explosions, brawls, and shots of  Brosnan running that I can count. The stunts are great and well  choreographed. Bond's HALO jump looks real, as does he and Wai Lin sliding  under the helicopter's propellers (the best stunt in the film). Even the  parts that don't involve some life-endangering situation for Bond are also,  for the most part, well done. Carver's sinister plan is developed  sufficiently, but I never really believed he was the cruel man he pretended  to be. The things he does hurt him inside; after ordering the death of his  wife, he sits alone at a table, sulking. He did show the usual villain  insanity when he compared himself to Napoleon and Caesar. Why do all Bond  villains usually compare themselves to tyrants of history? This time around  there are plenty of girls for the non-monogamous Bond. First he "picks  up some foreign tongue" from a Inga Bergstrom who is teaching him  Danish at Oxford. Next he beds Paris Carver. Finally, he and Wai Lin don't  respond to cries of "Commander Bond, Colonel Lin, are you out  there?" so they can stay and enjoy themselves on the wreckage of  Carver's ship. As for Wai Lin, the first Bond-equivalent Bond girl, she was  fabulous. For the first time, 007 doesn't have to tell the girl to  "stay here and wait for me". He can give her a gun and some  limpet mines and she is off. As usual, the locations were breathtaking;  they really made Bangkok look like Vietnam. As for Bond in this one, he  seemed much more like the spy of Fleming's novels. He womanizes, drinks  alone in his hotel room, kills without reservation, and actually gets hurt.  Perhaps the best example is when he kills Dr. Kaufman at point blank range.  The main problem with the movie is that somewhere during the motorcycle  chase it began to go downhill. The chase was too long and what followed it  was not all that interesting. Bond and Wai Lin had to go through the  cliched "I work alone" bit, and then finally arrived at "ok,  let's team up". It just seemed like a waste of time. The scene in the  Vietnamese equivalent of Q branch was a nice touch, but again, too drawn  out. Then, the ending was terrible. I didn't like most of the final scene  on the stealth ship. The edge-of-your-seat tension that many Bond movies  have was missing. I never believed that Bond or Wai Lin's lives were in  danger. The best scene was when Bond had Stamper shoot the man he just  killed so Stamper would think Bond was dead: classic Bond technique. Elliot  Carver's death by the sea drill was the worst one since Kananga's death by  inflation. It didn't give me any satisfaction and was made too obvious  before it happened. Another bad move was to turn Stamper into a typical,  muscle-bound grotesque henchman. He really showed a sinister side when he  gunned down the 17 helpless men in the water without blinking an eye. After  that he just became another one of Carver's big bullies. He never seemed to  get the same joy out of killing, and the part where he talks about being  Dr. Kaufman's student was just pointless and took away from his character.  In the end he fell into the trap that so many henchmen get into:  invincibility. Bond stabs him two times and he barley winces. That killed  any credibility and finished the ruination of the character. But aside from  all these peeves, it was still a pretty good entry into the Bond series:  especially with no more Cold War to fall back on. After six viewings of the  film I must say that it is one of the most reviewable Bond films in a long  time. With the exception of a few scenes, I managed to lose myself in the  movie each time I watched it. However, the more I watch it, the more I hate  the use of slow-motion. It is just not needed and takes away from the  overall quality of the rest of the well-directed movie. Finally, the  movie's quality during some of the dimly lit scenes was not too good. It  was grainy and looked like the movie was not fully processed before  release. The last movie this happened with was The Spy Who Loved Me and it  bothered me then too. Still, one of the best entries in years.