As the old saying goes: "don't judge a book by its cover."

I've been waiting to Clash of Titans for a long time now; ever since I saw the amazing trailer I couldn't wait. Recently, it came out on PPV so I ordered it of course. Seeing that it starred Sam Worthington (Avatar) and Liam Neeson (Batman Begins), I figured I was in for an awesome movie that I'd watch a few times over.

Boy was I wrong.

Spoilers herein:

The main problem that I had with the movie is that it moved too fast. Now, being 2 hrs long, you'd think that would leave enough time for character development and other things the director looked over. Guess not. The main character, named Perseus, has so few lines I was startled; you don't get to hear much from him and sadly the only lines he has are rather cringe-worthy and just downright cheesy.

The movie stops every 40 minutes to have him deliver some rallying speech to the people he's taken with him to kill the Medusa/Kraken/Hades and that was rather annoying; considering the "speech" is about twenty words or so. I didn't feel inspired like I usually would at that kind of point in a movie.

Not to mention in about 10 minutes all the people he's taken with him die. I was so disturbed at that point I nearly turned it over. One death after the other. I couldn't really be sad about them dying because the movie didn't even let you get to know them, but I kept wondering who the hell wrote the script, who decided it was a good idea to just kill off everyone.

Oh, but there's one more person alive! Perseus makes his way out of the place with Medusa's head to find his love standing there! But all of a sudden a bad man comes and kills her.

Damn.

Clearly not phased at all (seriously look at Worthington's face, it's absolute stone) he gets up and Pegasus comes to take him off into the sunset.

Well.

The last bit is just downright disenchanting; all Perseus does is point the Medusa's head at the Kraken and it's gone. Talk about anti-climatic. Not to mention that he didn't even kill Hades, only sent him to the Underworld. Pointless.

The acting is bad. Sam Worthington's voice is flat and Liam Neeson doesn't deliver like I know he can. They both don't fit the roles. The guy who played Draco was okay, I guess. Otherwise the emotionless voices are terrible and a real throw-off especially during certain scenes.

The good things in this movie:

CGI is spectacular. This is definitely a movie made for 3D. The flying demon things are very fluid and the scorpions are cool looking as well as the Kraken. The Djinn were fantastic and I have to say the one they took with them was my favorite character (who they killed off as well).

Pegasus was a treat to look at and when Hades comes and the darkness moves around him like big black wings it will take your breath away.

The action scenes are nice and long but aren't boring. The violence is kept to a minimum and most of it is just acrobatics and finesse (check out the backwards flips!).

Visually, the movie is astounding; but the terrible acting as well as the too-fast pace will make it a one-time viewing.