ORIGINAL REVIEW: I have been renting a lot of hitchcock films lately. Rebecca, 39 steps, vertigo, north by northwest, lady vanishes, shadow of a doubt. rear window, rope, psycho, the birds... so i'd decided to rent a lesser film, Marnie. At first, I was skeptical because I thought Tippi Hedren was not a particularly good actress. After a few minutes, I was captivated until the end. Of course, I had noticed several flaws here and there, but they were far from destroying the movie. I was eyeing Tippi's performance like a hawk, but she did an OK job, considering the massive undertaking. If someone else played Marnie, it might had been a true classic (Catherine Deneuve, Kim Novak, Grace Kelly). But I thought it over and realized that these fine actresses were too good for this neurotic role. Tippi had a down-to-earth quality about her, most likely due to her lack of acting experience. So I thought Tippi was a proper choice. Sean Connery was a good match for Tippi. He seemed like a man who was willing to put up with this crazy character. Everyone else did a good job.

Anyway, the script is what did it for me. It is intelligent and well paced. Many people had complained about the special effects and backdrop as being fake and unconvincing. But I don't think Hitchcock cared about these trivial matters. So, in this sense, it is like an European movie. It is an art film with a Hollywood production. Perhaps Hitchcock was trying to imitate Luis Bunuel, the master surrealist director, who in turn, probably was inspired by Marnie to create his masterpiece Belle De Jour.

Because of these particular flaws, many critics consider this a minor work. As Francois Truffaut said, "Marnie is one of the greatest flawed films in the history of cinema."

UPDATE: After seeing it again, I realized how clumsy Tippi portrayed Marnie. She was clearly out of her acting range in this movie. Also, Hitchcock was known to be a perfectionist so I wonder why he allowed Tippi's performances to slip. Perhaps he wanted to ridicule her because she rejected his sexual advances during the filming. And the more I learned about Hitchcock's relationship with Tippi Hedren the more strange this movie becomes. When Marnie was being raped, it really seemed like Hitchcock was raping her! Yeech!!

However, after becoming more acquainted with Hitchcock's method of directing his "cattles," I suspect that Hitchcock did not make any actual sexual advances. I think he was trying to put her into the right mindset simply for the fact that Tippi could not act. Hitchcock had been known to psychologically set up his stars for their roles to add to the realism. I think Hitchcock sexually advanced Tippi on purpose for this reason!

About the score: Bernard Hermann overdid it. It is like a Vertigo ripoff. Hitchcock's careless direction of his star and Hermann's annoying score are what truly divided the critics. Admirers love the cinematography, colors and dialogue. They become forgiving of everything else.

I still think it is Hitchcock's last great film, but at the bottom of the barrel of his masterpieces. Is this movie worth multiple viewings? I would say yes, but hesitantly. If this movie was shorter, like 90 minutes instead of 133 minutes, I would say definitely.