This show is distinctly unique in its ability to combine Drama and Suspense with Humor, but also stands out because of its outstanding writing and its amazing ensemble cast.  Initially, I fell in love with the show because of its interesting and unconventional story-lines, and its creative writing, but have since fallen in love with it because I developed a love and connection to all of the show's main characters. After the first season, I was worried that the writers might lose a bit of steam, and perhaps have a bit more difficultly coming up with new creative shorelines that keep fans coming back for more. Fortunately, the writers didn't disappoint and the show came back stronger than ever. Suspenseful episodes like Tick-Tick and Boom, will have you sitting on the edge of your seat, while episodes such as The Double Down will have you laughing out loud.

With the second season, there also comes a chance to delve a little bit into each character's background. Specifically, we learn more about Kate and her Mother's murder, and we also get to see what became of Esposito's old partner as well.

And then there's the infamous chemistry between its two title characters, Detective Kate Beckett and Richard Castle, which only seems to grow more with each passing episode. You can expect that Kate and Castle will be one of those 'will they won't they ever get together' couples that leave us yelling at our television screens every so often in frustration. If only they'd just realize how the other felt! Unfortunately, you can also that the writers will milk the relationship for pretty much everything its worth before they ever act on it. Even so, they write things in a way that works to the best of their advantage. I think that Kate and Castle's relationship could best be described as an enigma, but somehow, they make the perfect crime-solving duo. I have to say that I enjoy the often creative banter that goes on between Castle and Kate during their cases, as well as the downright hysterical dialogue that goes on between Esposito and Ryan. I think the show utilizes the humorous aspect of the show perfectly mainly because it seems to offset the dark nature of some of the cases on the show.