MI-5 or Spooks as it is known by in Britain and Australia is certainly one of the best productions of its type I have seen. The only US drama that we have seen in Australia that remotely resembles it would be "The Agency" which has not made it to DVD or video. This is more a thinking person's depiction of the Intelligence Service without the over-the-top action that we have come to be used to in US drama, but is still suspenseful and entertaining. 6 episodes in the first season, 10 in the 2nd season. We are fortunate in Australia to be about the only place in the world where season 2 has been available on DVD for some time. Excellent cast and scripts. Well worth the money and sits somewhere between John Le Carre and James Bond. Thoroughly realistic. A must for the collections of anybody interested in this genre.

 Season 1 Episode Guide
 Episode 1
 A car bomb explodes in Liverpool and Zoe is sent undercover to investigate. Tom's life gets complicated when he falls in love with a woman he met while working undercover.
 Episode 2
 The team uncover connections between racist ring-leaders, politicians and mass killings of immigrants. The gang have sophisticated equipment to protect themselves from electronic infiltration. Tom is forced undercover, and recent recruit Helen pretends to be his wife.
 Episode 3
 Zoe finds herself in the Turkish embassy just as it's taken siege by Kurdish rebels. Meanwhile, Tessa proves herself to have some dark secrets in her past.
 Episode 4
 Ellie starts to doubt whether she can cope with dating a spy. Tom's mentor is working undercover, but his methods start to appear dangerously unconventional. Meanwhile Zoe discovers Tessa is up to something.
 Episode 5
 An ex-MP is released from prison, proposing to publish his memoirs. Plenty of people are interested, and when a double agent is murdered, the plot thickens.
 Episode 6
 Tom is confronted by an Irish terrorist who seems to be trying to help MI5, but nothing is as simple as it seems. Ellie and Maisie move into Tom's house, just as he's tricked into bringing a bomb home in a laptop

 Season 2
 Episode 1
 Serbian terrorists are threatening the heart of the government. Once again, Tom must choose between saving the country or saving his relationship.
 Episode 2
 MI5 suspect a Muslim extremist is using a British mosque as cover. Who can they get to infiltrate his world?
 Episode 3
 With lives in danger across the globe, Zoe goes undercover to find out who's hacking into the MI5 computers.
 Episode 4
 Danny's life is at threat when Harry becomes suspicious that there's a government cover-up at a bank.
 Episode 5
 Tom's leadership skills are pushed to the limit when an EERIE alarm goes off in the grid.
 Episode 6
 When the President of the USA comes to town, Christine Dale decides that security will be done the CIA way.
 Episode 7
 The team need a 'clean skin' for a daring robbery, and find just the man when Harry's home is raided.
 Episode 8
 There's a new 'winter of discontent' and Tom has to investigate suspicions that even the army might go on strike.
 Episode 9
 The team receive news that a Columbian drugs cartel are bringing weapons into the country and planning to threaten the government.
 Episode 10
 Christine hands some top secret information on to Tom, little realising she could be making the biggest mistake of her life.