I wanted to like this film. I love Will Smith and Rosario Dawson, I love a good tear-jerker, and I love a good mystery. But I don't love narcissism masquaraded as virtue and that is what happens in this film.  Ben Thomas is an ultimate jerk--driven by guilt to do something for humanity who does so on his own superficial terms to where he gets to play judge and jury on who gets to benefit from his shame and guilt. And while what he does provides alleviation of pain and misery for others, the tactics deployed in unraveling Thomas' plight come from empty-headed self-absorbtion.

What truly irks me is how Holywood is so out of touch with how to play the virtuous humanity of people--this is such a mechanistic piece of bombastic drek that I cannot emphasize enough that people should shy away from this film. If you want a good, meaningful lesson in the human condition, go watch LARS AND THE REAL GIRL--whose gifts unfold beautifully and you find yourself mysteriously moved by a ridiculous premise. SEVEN POUNDS relies on dirty tricks to fool you into weepy submission--for that, the director, the screenwriter and producers (including Smith himself...who seems to do more films determined to diminish his grace of late) earn your scorn. In fact, the notion of suicide to make amends is just flat out ridiculous.  There's nothing brave nor courageous about this film.

I know people have said this was a moving film, but how can you say a film where the protagonist is an egotistical and shallow control freak with guilt issues makes for inspiration?

Kudos to Rosario Dawson--a vision of lovliness who rises above the apparent lack of true compassion in this film--she proves that she's destined to be one of our world's leading actresses as she matures. She's the only actor who transcends the inept script--even managing to pull off some sympathy for the film's final two minutes, which has to be the worst cornball ending and a big kiss off to the audience.

As for Smith, if he continues down this path (HANCOCK, HAPPYNESS and I AM LEGEND), we'll wonder why we ever thought so highly of him, much in the way we miss the old Tom Cruise.