I found this film is very well done and informative. I was prepared to wade through the makers' bias and try to glean some factual information. Doing so was not difficult. much of the dialog comes straight from Obama himself - from his book, in his own voice, from his speaches and writing. And his words are not butchered for soundbites in the manner of the campaign ads we are currently drowning in. I don't believe that anyone is contesting what obama's actions have been in the context of this film - it is the interpretation of the motives behind those actions that may be open to interpretation. Watching Obama perform as president i have often been troubled and confused as to why his has done what he has. The typical "stupidy" & "pandering" retorts are tiresome and fall far short of any kind of explanation. Obama's America 2016 does offer a very cohesive theory that strings together Obama's acts and accomplishments with an elegant simplicity that feels to me very close to unvarnished truth. 2016 does take the viewer one step farther implying what President Obama's second term might entail. Of course no one can know this for certain, but after following Obamas history (from his own mouth/book remember), rise in power, & actions as president in such a logical manner it is not difficult to find 2016's conclusions well within the realm of possibility...even probability. One thing about this 'movie' that did surprise me was that I have much more respect for Obama that I did previously. He has accomplished more and came farther in his life than the vast majority of the population could even dream of.....but how he has done it and what he has done with the power entrusted to him is alarming. "love him or hate him" - watch this film, leave the mind-numbing party dogma to sleep, and THINK on it. As long as I'm on a soap box ... how about showing each other as much respect as we would like to be shown? Nothing wrong with having different ideas and opinions. Being hatefull only reveals your own shortcomings.  thank you.