As others reviewing this item have noted, the cheese quotient is pretty high in "The Boys From Brazil," which has become something of a cult classic for just that reason.  Yes, scenery is chewed as if by the vicious dobermans that pop up in the end.  Of course, those doggies are beaten by a cast of veteran actors including Gregory Peck, Laurence Olivier and Uta Hagen, who overact their way through what I suppose was intended as a "prestige picture" back in the day.  Nevertheless, this thriller/potboiler/unintentional-laugh-getter ages pretty well despite the limberger.  It's slick, efficient and involving: if one is unaware of the infamous plot twist (which I will not spoil, rest assured) it still comes as something of a head spinner.

When Olivier's nazi-hunter Ezra Lieberman (a thinly-veiled version of Simon Wiesenthal) is warned of a mysterious plot launched by real-life nazi doctor Josef Mengele (Peck) he reluctantly leaps into action, or at least as much action as an old guy can leap into.  His investigation turns up a plot so fiendish, so evil, so utterly implausible that even a completely bonkers performance by Uta Hagen cannot stop him.  At the center of this nefariousness is an adolescent boy (oh Jeremy Black, where have you gone?) with a bad attitude and a chip on his shoulder to match.  The boy has a just-as-evil twin, and more than one.  What could this mean?  Well, I'll leave it to you to find out, dear Amazon shopper.

I suppose you also have to wonder about the taste of placing a real life war criminal (Mengele really was responsible for thousands of deaths during the holocaust) into a fictional thriller as a cartoon villian.  I mean, isn't this the kind of thing that allows people like Hutton Gibson (Mel's dad) to deny the realities of history?  Okay, that's kind of a heavy load to place on the shoulders of a movie directed by the same guy who did "Planet of the Apes," but I'm just wondering here.  If we take enjoyment from this, are we not some sick puppies, or at least cynical?  In the film, Olivier's character is considered something of a relic by a world that just isn't interested in his mission anymore.  That could describe the audience for this film, which had to include the members of the long-running thrash metal band Slayer, who apparently cribbed some of the dialogue for their signature song, "Angel of Death."  Since I've been known to rock out to that song, I guess I'm complicit as well, and what does it say about me that I'm not really all that concerned about it?  If you toss Stephen King's novella "Apt Pupil" and even "Raiders of the Lost Ark," with their boo-hiss nazis, into this pop-culture mix, what does that say?  I hate to be the voice of moral outrage here, since after all I'm as bad as anyone, but can we really laugh into the face of real world horrors?  You can probably call it a coping mechanism, 'cause if you start to consider the reality of events like the holocaust and slavery, you'd just go as bonkers as the plot of this movie, the very ending of which is as disturbing as it was intended to be, and almost justifies the entertaing folderol that preceded it.