If you like martial arts films in which swordfights take place between characters that seem to float on air, then Hero could be the film you've been waiting for.  Hero is full of exquisite scenery, vibrant colors, radical fight scenes and an awesome display of extras in epic proportions (it is said that 18,000 Chinese Army regulars played the role of the Qin army in the film). But unlike Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Hero's characters don't connect with the audience on an emotional level and as a result it is difficult to get to know them.

  Directed by Zhang Yimou Hero is reportedly the most expensive film in Chinese history, it is also his first attempt at this type of film. Like Crouching Tiger, it is firmly within the `wushu' genre (roughly translated, this means `Heroic Warrior') and serves up several impressively choreographed fight scenes.

  The film is set in China in the third century BCE . The Nameless one (Jet Li) is a provincial prefect who has been summoned to the imperial court of the powerful King of Qin (Chen Dao Ming), in order to tell him how he has defeated the King's three greatest enemies: Broken Sword (Tony Leung), Flying Snow (Maggie Cheung) and Long Sky (Donnie Yen). As Nameless spins his various yarns in flashback, the King realizes that he may not be telling the truth, so we get several different versions, similar in style to the 1950's Japanese film Rashomon.

  The cinematography, by Christopher Doyle, is incredibly beautiful - frankly, it's the main reason to see the film. The use of color saturation enhances the viewers experience and is used by the film maker to separate plotlines. One breath taking fight scene in particular takes place against a sumptuous backdrop of bright golden leaves that turn to deep red at the scene's climax. In fact, each of the fight scenes are color coded. Although the link between the colors and the scenes themselves is subtle, there is definitely a method to Zhang Yimou madness.  The red scenes correspond to the characters feelings of jealousy and impending doom.  The blue sequences show the anguish of lost love.  Green is used when the Broken Sword and Falling Snow are plotting and attempting to kill the King.  Finally the use of white seems to signify redemption.  Still, who cares when the final product looks this good?

  As Nameless, Jet Li makes a suitably inscrutable hero, whose tales may or may not be hiding an ulterior motive. His fight with the character Sky, in large part takes place in the minds of the two combatants.  Maggie Cheung is also impressive as Flying Snow, particularly during the exciting attack on the calligraphy house where she fends off hundreds, perhaps thousands, of arrows using only her particularly sturdy sleeves.

  Undeniably Hero has several great fight sequences and is profoundly beautiful to look at. The score by composer Tingxiao Hou's is also completely integral to the film. His use of an ancient Chinese stringed instrument called the Gugin (Qin for short) is completely appropriate (and ironic) and  makes the Nameless vs. Sky fight all the more dramatic.  However, the un-engaging structure of the story means that we never really get to know any of the characters on a personal level, they have no depth and as a result, there's no emotional hook to the plot.  That being said, watching the film more than once will make you realize that it doesn't really matter, the film stands on its absolutely stunning cinematography alone.

  To sum up, Hero is definitely worth watching! The stunning photography, hauntingly beautiful musical score and the sheer spectacle of some of the scenes makes it time well spent. At the very least it serves as an appetizer for Zhang Yimou's follow-up film House of Flying Daggers.