Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller are two of the funniest actors around these days, and they're even funnier when they're teamed up. Starsky and Hutch puts them in the roles of two drastically different cops chosen to work together. This approach may seem overdone, but Stiller and Wilson keep the screen fresh. They are both incredible actors and comedians; it would be hard to watch this film without laughing out loud.

Owen Wilson is Hutch, a laid back cop that likes to bend the rules. He never gets any work done and even drinks on the job. Starsky is the exact opposite. He is uptight and follows the rules to the book. You wouldn't guess, but he's also one hell of a driver. His car of choice is a red Grand Torino, and man can he make it fly. However, both Starsky and Hutch are outcastes at the police office, so they are put together. Naturally, the two characters hate each other when first paired up.

They soon get on the case of some drug dealers who are trying to get a new genetically engineered type of cocaine onto the streets. Vince Vaughn does an incredible job as the ringleader of this operation. He is serious and sinister in a way that just makes you laugh.

And then there is the infamous Huggy Bear. I've never seen the television series so I have no idea what he's supposed to be like, but Snoop Dogg is hilarious. Huggy Bear calls himself an urban informer. Basically he tells Hutch what the word on the street is so Hutch won't go and bust him. I think Snoop Dogg did a great job acting this part because he really didn't have to act. Huggy Bear wears lots of bling, talks slowly in a mellow voice, and knows a lot about drugs. Just like Snoop Dogg.

One of my favorite scenes pits Starsky against Dancing Rick in a disco dance off. It sounds cheesy, and it is. They pull off some really cool and original moves that'll have you splitting your sides with laughter. Another one of my favorite clips involves Starsky playing Russian Roulette while interrogating a suspect. In fact, just about every scene in the movie made me laugh. That's when you know you have a high quality comedy.

There are no bad characters in this film. Carmen Electra and Amy Smart play some sizzling love interests. Huggy Bear's crew is even worth a few chuckles. Will Ferrell has perhaps the funniest part in the film. The only downside to Starsky and Hutch is that it comes up a little short on the action side. This isn't a real problem because whatever the film lacks in action it makes up for in comedy twofold. Starsky and Hutch will have you rolling on the ground with laughter.