Most modern horror movies fall into a trap of following a simple blueprint of whatever is successful at the moment. Japanese horror remakes, torture porn and generic slasher flicks run rampant at movie theatres and video stores. If you want something unique you're probably going to have to go out of your way to find it. Let me tell you, go get a map and figure out how to find the hidden gem that is, Behind the Mask: The Rise of Leslie Vernon.

This movie gleefully deconstructs the modern slasher film and in the process makes one of the best horror movies to come out in years. Behind the Mask takes place in a world where Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees and Michael Myers are all very real. In fact, to would be psycho slashers, they are icons to look up to.

Leslie Vernon is next in line for slasher greatness. Leslie (Nathan Baesel) has hired a documentary crew to follow him around to capture the physical and mental preparation that is required to become a homicidal maniac. Now this sounds utterly creepy, but Behind the Mask has some morbidly dark comedic moments, and trust me, you'll laugh. It's all possible thanks to Baesel's charming ability to make Leslie such a likable character. As he bounds around screen he entertains like a young, energetic Dane Cook (before he began acting and started to suck). You can't help but become enamored with Leslie. Yet you have to remind yourself that he is a sick man that is fully intent on murdering a bunch of teenagers. That underlying fear is what makes the movie work. It's almost impossible to believe that this charming guy is actually a killer. However, once the beguiling Leslie turns it on, the movie pulls a one-eighty. It goes from lighthearted geeky satire to full on horror slasher. Of course you think you know how it will turn out because Leslie painstakingly walks the film crew through his plans...however things go awry and you get to see Leslie live up to the slasher icons he worships.

There are so many reasons to love this film. My only real complaints are that it's not quite as frightening as I would have hoped for and some more unforgettable deaths would have been nice. Those are forgivable though since the constant nods to horror movies and "business" terms like "Ahab" and "Survivor Girl" make my inner geek giddy. Also be on the lookout for cameos from horror vets, Robert Englund, Kane Hodder and Zelda Rubinstein. I watched Behind the Mask: The Rise of Leslie Vernon with a group of friends and we all loved it. I think every horror fan needs to own this soon to be cult classic.

Final Grade: A-