that aching to see something tangible...that yearning in your belly that somehow ignites with passion, honor, happiness, sadness and all the other emotions one can muster?

When the mood is just right and the world beckons you like an incantation, there is some surreal voice that grabs you by the collar one idle Sunday, as you are sitting alone for the first time in some years, eagerly awaiting one of your favorite stories from nearly a decade ago, now on the big screen in front of you, and you have to go to the potty so bad, but you are afraid to move from your seat as you dont want to miss a beat? Some aura prevails in the theatre and you want to just jump up and scream into the air, and cry and laugh and rejoice and make the world a better place, because it is, and it can be and the masterfullness of Penn brings the joy of Chris McCandless' life like I think perhaps few could. I am down with the nay sayers who say the film lacked this or that or whatever word stock and bantering, boring, 'streamlined' prose they want to use. The songs were so perfect for the settings they were in, and Vedder's voice added to the overall impact of the outcome of the film, just littered with emotions, and the sweeping lucid cinematography that we were welcomed to ignited the viewer to want to walkabout almost immediately. The songs were searing! The very close and introspective views of nature, instead from long angled shots were truly well done. Also the physical change in Hirsh was brilliant, especially at the end there when he took his shirt off in one of the scenes and to see the transformation from him a bit o' baby fat throughout, then eating organic and of course his eventually demise where he ate the wrong plant, was very well done, and I was having flashbacks to Bale in 'The Machinist' for a bit, albeit not as grotesque.

Bill Hurt is always brilliant. I love his voice, his presence, there is just something about him ya know, something intrinsic that he just has a way with the ensemble he works with. To not say that Chris also had some mental instability, arguably would be doing the film an injustice, and I think Penn really brought that out in some scenes where Hirsh's mind was just littered with ideas, idealisms, and a million thoughts screaming out in the dark. Through all Chris's pure love of the wild, he must in turn have been screaming inside.

In a time where films seem to lack anymore creativity in a tangible sense, 'Into the Wild' comes from nowhere and lands a punch on our hearts, and for me at least, it is surely needed in a time when we all seem to be searching for something more. In saying that I am reminded by a few lines I remembered from my youth, and I apologize for any inaccuracies as its from memory: "Nature gives you the impressions as if there were nothing else contradictory in the world; and yet, when you return back to the dwelling place of man, be it lofty or low, wide or narrow, there is ever somewhat to contend with, to battle with, to smooth and put to rights" [Goethe]

And in that we find Chris McCandless. A shining star in an often weary world.