While waiting for this pre-ordered BluRay to arrive (nervously pacing back and forth in front of the mailbox for 3 weeks straight), I was hoping and praying for an excellent BluRay experience - both a good transfer to disc and a good restoration process. Being well aware of what the best of BluRay can offer, and in view of the fact that this has, for so long now, remained with me as one of my all-time favorite films, I just didn't know if I would be able to stand it if the whole thing had somehow proven to be below par. But from my first glimpse of the remarkable hues, details and textures of that very first, opening and dramatically iconic, full-height pan of the imposing visage of Woody Strode, standing there, motionless in the doorway of that isolated and dusty train depot, I could tell that in all likelihood I was in store for something special - and, as it turned out, indeed I was from beginning to end. This disc has an extrordinarily film-like quality to it - the level of which is rather astonishing and it is infinitely pleasing and rewarding to find this sort of viewing experience associated with a film of this caliber (not always the case with BluRay) - but, both picture AND sound are top notch! I haven't even soaked in all the extras yet, but I really don't care - this transfer of this movie is itself all that and a bag of chips! What a treat it is to feel, with each and every scene, that you are finally seeing and hearing (so much of it as if for the first time) everything the filmmakers wanted you to! All of it only serves to enhance the indeed emotional, dramatic and cinematic depths of, without a doubt, one of the finest westerns ever made - from the rugged coarseness of up-close, more-than-3-day-old beard stubble, to the expansive openness and bell-like clarity of the magnificently sweeping shots of Monument Valley, to the inspired metaphoric use of the slow, rhythmic and (enhanced to new, virtually chest-thumping levels) deathly laboring chuffs and puffs of an idling locomotive - all equally unforgettable. And in fact you can't pass up, as well, the memorably mythological dialogue and cinematography, both so entrancingly paced, that is within and IS this film - or, as I believe it was once put before: "the poetic myth of it all, and all of it poetic myth". Yes sir, any way you care to slice it, sitting down to view THIS BLURAY presentation of Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West is an event. If you love this movie even half as much as I do, you need to stop whatever else you may be doing and go over and click on the order button for this one - like, right NOW!! And it's OK, the price is right, too! Enjoy!