When I first saw the previews for "Someone Like You" a few months ago, set to the music of Kendall Payne's "Closer To Myself," I thought that this looked like an engaging romantic comedy ala "While You Were Sleeping," and "Never Been Kissed." I tried to make time to go to the theatre and see this, but I never really got around to it.  I kind of thank God for that.  It's not really worth the 6 or 7 bucks one pays for a ticket.  I'm not saying it's totally worthless, don't get me wrong, I mean it's not painful.....it's just not what I expected.
The storyline focuses on Jane Goodale (played by the engaging Ashley Judd, the only reason this film stays on it's feet,) a beautiful woman, who has gone through relationship after relationship and has just not been successful.  Well, one day while at work with her womaizer friend, Eddie (Hugh Jackman, who plays this role with as much enthusiasm as a rock laying in the middle of a field,) she meets the man-of-her dreams (Greg Kinnear, who shouldn't have been selected to play the role...he's got no chemistry what-so-ever with Ashley, and neither does Hugh Jackman, which I had forgotten to mention.) Well, of course, he is taken, but she manages to snag a few dates with him and they end up going out and sleeping together...etc. One day he decides that they should move in together, after he tells his girlfriend that it's over.  Jane packs up her bags and tells her landlord she's moving, but after 2 weeks she finds out that her boyfriend does not feel right about dumping his girlfriend, and he dumps her, too.  Jane has no where to go, and she ends up moving in with Eddie.  Well, I bet ya can't guess what happens next.  They fall in "love."  Like I said, it is not a believable love, because there's no chemistry.. And for a film like this with a weak script, and only a select few good performances, there HAS to be chemistry.  That is the films biggest downfall.
If you just feel like watching a movie that's SOMEWHAT interesting, rent this, but don't expect anything great.