I wont waste time going into the story.  You can see plenty of that in the other reviews.

The Blu-Ray is excellent and takes advantage of the format more than any disc I currently own.  The picture is flawless with bright colors and a life-like image.  You will notice details you didn't during the original broadcast airing.  For example, the scenes in the crypt were sort of dark and hard to make out during the original airing have been lightened up a bit.  You can see more details of the statues of the Stark ancestry.

The DTS audio track is amazing!  Your side channels will get quite a workout.  The sound is immersive, but not overbearing.  I could crank the volume up fairly loud and it still would sound perfect.  I have a 7.1 surround sound system, and there was one scene early in the first episode where a raven comes flying in from the rear to the front that startled my cat and I.  I simply wasn't expecting that sort of detail in sound.

There are quite a few extras.  The one that really stands out is the in-episode guide to the Seven Kingdoms.  When you turn this feature on, a side menu with four icons appears over the picture.  Don't worry, you can make it transparent so it's not blocking the scenes.  The first icon brings up a list of characters that are currently in the scene and will give you a bit of information about them when you select them from the list.  The second icon gives you the current location, also with a bit of information.  The 4th icon takes you to the complete guide where you can access all of it's content from a single menu.

Then you have the third icon, the History icon, and this is the most interesting.  Periodically, when a character mentions something from past history, it will flash.  When you select that icon, you will see a list of history items, and the one that was just "unlocked" will be selected.  Press this, and you're taken to a short animated video segment explaining the historic moment the character just mentioned, narrated by one of the characters in the story.  Sometimes its the same historic moment from another viewpoint; so not only does it give you history, it gives you historical perspective from the different houses.  After the history video, it brings you right back to the episode where it continues.  Most of this history is in the narrative of the books, and so I think this was a very clever (and well produced) way to get that narrative back into the hands of the viewers.  It makes this world even richer than it was when we first viewed the series.

I also feel that watching episodes back to back makes the series much enjoyable and easier to understand.  This show is dense with characters, history and plot.  So having to wait a week meant having all these details fade before the next episode.  I feel like I appreciate this series even more now that I own it.

Finally, I actually received my set on Monday, one day before release the street date, when they had guaranteed release day delivery.  I guess that's one of the perks of being a Prime member.  Kudos to Amazon for their great service.  :)

Great series.  Outstanding reference-quality Blu-Ray.  Definitely not to be passed up if you like the series and own a Blu-Ray disc player.