I firmly believe that this is the greatest film ever made; it is surely the greatest I have ever seen, and over several decades I've seen many.  It's one of the most powerful works of art I've experienced in any form.

I can still recall vividly the first time that I saw it. It was at a matinee viewing at a theater in downtown Philadelphia. The audience was me, my then-wife, and about a gazillion sweet little old ladies, median age of about 73.  The audience observed stone silence throughout the showing; not a whisper, not a popcorn-rustle.  I (and I suspect several other people) left the theater with new appreciation of the emotional power of film.

What makes this film so uniquely powerful is that it so perfectly depicts that most powerful of emotions: love.  I tend to be an impatient critic of most romantic films, which I find manipulative and unbelievable.  I can't believe in a film romance simply because violins well up when two attractive people look at each other.  But this film, unlike any other I know of, vividly documents the experience of falling in love: the way that the mind seizes upon the words and the gestures of one woman alone, finding something unique, intriguing, soul-piercing in them, and filtering out everyone else.

The basic story is that of Newland Archer (Daniel Day Lewis), a young pillar of upper-crust 1870s New York society.  He has a non-conformist's mind, but is outwardly respectful of the culture in which he lives.  About the time that he becomes engaged to May (Wynona Ryder), there arrives in his world the Countess Olenska (Michelle Pfeiffer.)  The Countess is fleeing a marriage and maltreatment from Count Olenski, from whom she wants that then-scandalous thing:  divorce.  The Countess herself is the subject of rumors of improprieties with her husband's secretary.

Thus, as Newland and the Countess find something unique in one another and fall in love, it presents Newland with an agonizing dilemma: is there any honorable way to be with the potential love of his life, given his engagement to May, and Olenska's marriage to the Count?  But it would be a crime against art to spoil that mystery for you, so enough said.

One remarkable aspect of this film is that the characters' society not only constrains the conduct of everyone involved, but also the expressions of their feelings.  Daniel Day Lewis in particular carries a burden of conveying the most powerful emotions without being able to voice them.  He does this in one of the most magnificent performances ever on film, often acting wordlessly through means as subtle as trembling fingers or a clenched jaw.

You are shown quite clearly how he falls in love with the Countess.  She gives voice to the irreverent thoughts that never occur to May, and which Newland feels but would never speak. The looks of shocked amusement on Daniel Day Lewis's face in many of these early conversations are a vital part of the gradual, but irresistible, warming of their early relationship.

What unfolds is a story of love, and heartbreak, of choices made, of responsibilities met, and of opportunities missed and gone forever.  It's a tale that will affect anyone who ever wonders about the path not taken in their own life.  And it's also a tale of the clash between societal norms and individual desires, especially limiting the options of an unlucky woman.

Upon first viewing, the visual genius of the film is very striking.  Stills of the film rival the great paintings of art history (and in at least one instance, nearly parodying a famous Seurat.)  There's tremendous visual splendor and opulence.

I found that on repeat viewings, however, I was equally amazed by the film's dynamic qualities - the way that one scene draws you into the next, often with the beautiful orchestral score as an ineluctable link between scenes.  The sequence in which the yellow roses are ordered and delivered is a gorgeous montage of a few seconds, driven by the backing music.

Oh, and that music - Elmer Bernstein composed one of the most emotive scores ever for a film, and several of the scenes draw their power from it. Though the score is very reminiscent of the third movement of the Brahms third symphony, it may actually exceed the Brahms in several places for emotional power.

It's a film that one watches and repeatedly has the feeling, "This is one of the great scenes in all of film."  But those fantastic scenes just keep coming, one after the other.  I have particular favorites:  the scene where the Countess whispers to Newland in the opera box, the scene where he approaches her as she looks out at the lighthouse, and of course, the incredibly moving final scene.

I don't know what else to say about the final scene other than that watching it for the first time was a more powerful experience than I'd had at the cinema at any time prior.

Strangely, this is one of the lesser-known Scorsese films.  I'm a great fan of Scorsese's other works, but he certainly never made a gangster film as great as this.  I suspect that this one just didn't find its natural audience.  Perhaps people expected it to be a lighter romantic costume drama.  Instead it is an intense story of romantic agony, told from the viewpoint of a conflicted male.  Perhaps it reflects that male perspective too much to be a chick flick, whereas not enough men were interested in watching this story.  Perhaps it was just too subtle.  Whatever the cause, the lack of appreciation is unfortunate, because it's a story that should have great power for everyone who has ever been deeply and truly in love, especially if that love might slip away forever.

I saw this film repeatedly after it was first released, but several years had passed before I saw it again this past weekend with my wife.  It's like Daniel Day Lewis says to Michelle Pfeiffer late in the film:  "Every time I see you, you happen to me all over again."  And so it is with this masterpiece.