7 Years in Tibet is about a German-Austrian Mountain Climber - Heinrich Harrer's spiritual journey and his meeting with the young Dali Lama during his journey.

Although I am not a big fan of Brad Pitt, I thought he did an excellent acting job as the character Heinrich Harrer, who many of us can identify and relate to - The goal oriented and egoistic person who life brought him down to his knees feeling separated and isolated in the foreign country - Tibet (to not spoil the story, I will let you watch the movie to figure out what happen to this character).  I am also happy the main character Heinrich Harrer was acted by Brad Pitt because he is a famous movie star (that makes many others want to watch the movie and be aware of the issue Tibet has suffered).

After I watched the movie, I also went on a google search to see a biography of Heinrich Harrer.  I was surprised on how the costume and the make-up of the movie of the main characters match what I saw on the internet.  It shows that the movie must have been made with great care of details to match the culture, the history and the times.

I love the story of this movie (and probably will buy the book to read some day) because it is different from the standard "love story" comedies or the violent victory movies portraying some heroes out there saving the world.  The movie is made from a true story about Heinrich Harrer's friendship with the young Dali Lama and how the wisdom from Dali Lama helped Heinrich Harrer to grow spiritually as a human being (you have to watch the movie to experience this inspiration).

As a Chinese, I am ashamed of what the Chinese Government at the time did to Tibetans, yet I have no right to vote against their behavior and violence.  I am ashamed of what the Chinese Government has done still today about not freeing Tibet, yet, I do not have a right to vote of a government that listens to my voice.  My own parents suffered from separation, despair and sorrow from the same Chinese Government during Chinese Cultural revolution in the 60s.  Therefore, even though I am not a Tibetan, I can understand what Tibetans must have been through - physical and emotional torture from this unconscious, egoistic entity.

I am writing this review to let others know that not all Chinese out there are ruthless and insensitive about this issue.  I care about this issue and one could only hope the nation of Tibet can find its political freedom some day.  Maybe political freedom will come later.  However, may I humbly ask for healing, forgiveness Tibetans have suffered all these years because resentment, hatred, if any, can only poison ourselves further and these poison can be passed on to many more generations.  All I can say is if I were ever a Chinese Government official, I would have been one/want to be one who can stand up representing the Chinese Government to say, "I apologize for what my government has done.  Human beings are all one.  Let us show respect, compassion, integrity just like the way the Tibetan culture have shown us - Compassion, non-violence, peace."  May that time come soon as the global consciousness is awakening of itself.

Thank you for reading my review.