I had been eyeing this box set for a while and on Father's Day received it as a gift from my wife.  It's the perfect box set for the Indiana Jones fan!  Each movie is high quality as you would come to expect from any dvd release, someone made a review stating that the picture was dark but I thought it looked great.  Not only are the movies a high quality picture but the bonus material is awesome, perfect for any fan.  So listed below are some pros and cons about anything and everything I could think of, I hope this helps!

Bonus Disk - In one word, "perfect".  It allows you to see how each of the three movies were made along with interviews from cast and crew, they even interviewed Little Round!  The disk also has a section pertaining to the stunts of Indiana Jones, it gave you an interesting perspective while watching the movie to see how these things were done.  Interestingly enough, Harrison Ford did many of his own stunts! The bonus disk is well worth buying this box set and besides, it's not included in the newest box set release.

Something else I really like about this set is that you have your choice between full screen and wide screen.  The new box set does not have this option and for those of us who haven't made the switch to wide screen, it makes a big difference.

As for the movies themselves, if you haven't seen them then you should because they're classic movies that stand the test of time.  What I like most is that there are NO digital effects!  I'm so sick of CGI everything and am glad to see stunt men doing a bang up job.  CGI can really cheapen a movie up, stunt men give it a sense of authenticity.  So stunt men along with some good old fashion tricks of the trade and you have a pretty awesome trilogy.  For those of you who have seen the movie then I don't need to tell you how great they are.  All I can say is that if you are trying to choose between box sets (2003 release or 2008), there really are no major differences between the two.  The differences are:

-  2008 box set has no full screen option and no bonus dvd
-  2003 box set has full and wide screen option along with 178 minute  bonus dvd...you do the math

So there are the pros, and for the cons....well, there are no cons.  This a great set of movies!

Well I hope this review helps, you really can't go wrong with this purchase.  Buy it, pop some corn, get a coke, sit back and enjoy three great 1980's action adventure films!