This is my #2 movie of all time and I think Steven Spielberg did a great job with this one. I've got a little story to tell before I get into my review (warning: there are spoilers in the review!), here it is:
I have to tell you that the first time I saw The Color Purple I didn't even know that this movie existed, I've never heard anything about it before and I didn't know that it was directed by Spielberg. I missed the first 10 minutes of the movie so I couldn't realize till the very end that what I saw was a Spielberg movie. I can still recall the day I saw it: it was a dark November day, I was in a depressed mood and didn't want to do anything. I sat at home watching TV and at about 11 P.M I switched to HBO and from then on I couldn't stand up for one single minute, I was captivated by this movie. There aren't many movies that make me cry like a 5-year-old but The Color Purple made me cry and makes me cry every time I watch it again.
The movie is based on Alice Walker's Pulitzer Price winning novel and I think it gets the feeling of it and moves it onto the movie/TV screen. The movie is the story of four women. The main character is Celie (Whoopi Goldberg), an African American woman who is mistreated by her father (raped twice - with 2 children from the incest, none of them living with her), separated from her family (if we can call it that) and married to a brutal man she calls Mr. (Danny Glover). Her only friend in the world is her sister, Nettie (Akosua Busia) who runs to Celie and Mr. when their father tries to rape her as well and after an accident the sisters are separated. Celie lives with Mr. who has a mistress called Shug Avery (Margaret Avery). Shug is a blues singer who stops by many times and is the only person whom is loved by Mr. Mr.'s son, Harpo marries a woman called Sofia (Oprah Winfrey) who has very bad tempers that bring her all sorts of trouble throughout the movie. The story is about the seemingly hopeless life of Celie (spanning almost 40 years of her life) and her longing for love, her sister and her children. Her only companions in this sad life are Shug (yes, Shug the mistress!) and Sofia though both have their own problems. In the end, everyone gets what she has to get. There are winners and there are losers.
What makes this movie one of the best movies of all time? First of all, the fantastic actors and actresses. Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey give the best performances of their career (though both debutants here). Danny Glover is frightening as the evil Mr. though you can understand him as well and I must admit that he won my sympathy in the end. Margaret Avery simply shines. These are only the main characters but all the other actors are great. Then there is the direction. Spielberg uses special settings and signs to make you understand every movement and every emotion (there are lots of emotions in the movie). Many people think that Schindler's list was the best movie directed by Spielberg. I think this is his moment where everything has its meaning and there isn't a lost second in the 154-minute movie. The director of photography does a great job, too. Back to the emotions. This movie makes you cry out loud at the things that happen to Celie and the other characters while at the same time you understand them and their reasons to act the way they act. In the last 30-something minutes the movie gives you such a turbulence of emotions that you can only sob and sob and sob. And it gives you something more: a catharsis. Few movies give a catharsis nowadays. The movie has some important messages, too. These are old truths but they are true: never give up and when there's little hope you have to hold on and go on with your life. There is sadness, joy, and there is forgiving, too. My favorite line is: "See, Daddy, sinners have a soul, too."
Why did the movie fail at the Oscars then? I think it is the theme. It is about African American people and the way they were mistreated (by white people and by themselves as well). It is about incest, it is about men beating their wives and it is about many themes that are considered as taboo themes even today. But these things had to be told, this movie had to be made because we were poorer if it didn't exist. The Color Purple should have won all the 11 Academy Awards it was nominated for but it got none. This is a shame but it should not discourage anybody from watching it. I highly recommend it to anyone. Once you've seen it you'll never forget it. Believe me.