Sky Crawlers / B001VBM0Z0

*Spoilers*

Funny enough, I didn't much care for <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6304493681">Ghost in the Shell</a>, but I felt that "Sky Crawlers" was a rare and unexpected gem. Indeed, the day immediately after watching "Sky Crawlers" for the first time, we sat down and watched it a second time as well.

Part of this repeated viewing, however, is kind of because you *have* to in order to understand the plot. If you don't understand, going in, that the pilots are all ageless clones that die and are reborn to wage pointless, unending battle as an opiate for the human population, then you're going to miss out on a lot of the sub-text, and indeed, a lot of the super-text as well!

Once you get past that, you may find that "Sky Crawlers" is one of the most horrific movies out there. The slow, hazy crawl of the movie (there's even a lovingly rendered shot of the pet dog doing marking territory on the front lawn) mirrors the slow, hazy crawl of the clone's lives, as they live in a perpetual haze - their long-term memories almost completely non-functional, due to the chaotic live-die-live cycle that they perpetuate. The clones go through their daily routines, noting blearily that everything "seems familiar" - that diner reminds me of somewhere, that food tasted familiar, I used to know a person like you, and so on. As some of the clones become more self-aware, they blanch at the bleak and terrifyingly changeless future before them, and contemplate escape - even if it means suicide.

"Sky Crawlers" is slow-paced, and despite the air battles, seems largely more like a dreamy philosophical film than an action packed adventure. The characters are exceedingly well rendered and well characterized, an interesting tightrope to walk when the clones are also supposed to be largely 'personality free', due to the near-brainwashing effects of lacking any substantial long-term memories. And the animation is truly lovely - this is one of the prettiest anime movies I've ever seen. Really, "Sky Crawlers" is one of those 'love-or-hate' movies, and it's just going to depend on taste and personality.

On a lighter note, you can play a good drinking game with the number of cigarettes lit on-screen - there were so many "lighting a cigarette" sequences that I actually half-jokingly theorized that the cigarettes were a metaphor for the clones - easily used-up and replaceable consumer commodities that provide comfort for the population at the expense of their (moral) health. Indeed, considering the resolution, that theory might not be too far off...

~ Ana Mardoll