This movie could quite possibly be my absolute favorite movie of all time.  By no means am I implying that this is the greatest movie ever made, it is quite simply, for what its worth, my personal favorite.  And by no means is it a "guilty pleasure" - it has every right to be listed among the top films of all time.  After all, the very qualities that make it my personal favorite are qualities that make this movie truly stand out above the majority, critically.

This is a movie that should be shown in every film school in order to teach the ingredients necessary to make a truly great motion picture, for you could analyze any one facet of the film, be it the directing, the acting, the cinematography, and write a thesis paper on it.  From a directing standpoint, you have Kubrick's incredible attention to detail and perfectionist eye; and you have his masterful ability to bring out the best in his actors.  From an acting standpoint, you have Peter Sellers and George C Scott at their absolute best - which is a bold statement.  You also get a perfect example of how to take a small budget and not only tear down the illusion of its limitations, but actually achieve complete freedom from a modest financial backing.  This movie takes place in about four different spaces and not once is it limited by this, but in fact, greatly benefits from it.  The craziness, the claustrophobic paranoia, is only heightened by the surroundings.  You have a script of sheer wit, a powerfully funny, almost dangerous, satire that manages to use abstract absurdity to clearly drive home a very clear, real danger - Or in other words, it is a satire that achieves its purpose absolutely.  You have a story set in a specific moment in world history, but a story beyond setting and to the heart of the human spirit - in all its fallacy, craziness, and absurdity - Which leads me to the very thing that has sold me on this film in the first place: the sheer entertainment factor of it all.  You can analyze this film to death, but you cannot avoid how downright entertaining the whole production of Dr Strangelove is  - the sheer genius of Kubrick's part was making this adaptation into a satire in the first place - for recognizing the insanity of political power and understanding that laughter is sometimes the best means to express horror.  He has never been more on the money, regardless of how incredibly effective his other films have been, as well.

Regardless of whether watching for the first time, or the hundredth time: analyze, dissect or marvel, but above all else, grab your popcorn, lean back, and simply enjoy this entertaining film.