The Score is a good film with great performances.
Overall, I enjoyed the film. The caper to steal the sceptre was complex because of the high tech security, yet it was met with an ingenious theif that used low-tech equipment to combat their systems.
The jazz theme of NYC's represented improvisational way that many thieves worked in this film.  DeNiro, also, (uncredited) directs Brando in many of the scenes here. Brando's character is flashier (as a fence) because he has to convince DeNiro's character to break his own rules to steal the scepter.
Seeing the legendary Marlon Brando in a role where he didn't have much screentime, but giving you a performance where you could laugh with his character and feel empathy for the character by the end of the film shows his genious.
I, also, loved Edward Norton in his dual role as the younger theif and as the night custodian Brian.  Norton didn't phone in his acting here.  He had me convinced at his first appearance that he was this mentally challenged guy on the streets of Montreal.  I was just as taken aback as Nick (DeNiro's character) to find out that this guy was a hustler.
Deniro's character, Nick, played a low-key smooth operator in this film. As a jazz club owner of NYC's (Nick's - get it?) he enjoyed that lifestyle.  Who wouldn't with the cool jazz artists that he had coming through performing there?  The set was a place that made you want to visit NYC's. It was, also, indicative of this man's personality.  On the other hand, he was ready to retire from the life of being a jewel thief; plans to settle with Diane (Angela Bassett) and own his club outright made him think it was worth the stretch.
Angela Bassett did a great job for the few times she was onscreen.  The chemistry between her and DeNiro was great and credible although brief.  She did show a reason why this guy would go for the final heist although other elements that he normally didn't take risk for kept coming into play.
I think his acting without saying a word after he buzzed her in indicated just how much he anticipated her visit with him, and shows his affection for this woman. Plus, he cooks a nice meal for her. How often do you see DeNiro's characters being so tender, romantic and subtle like that in a film?