When it comes to stories of love, it doesn't get any more intense than teenagers involved a summer romance. Mona (Nathalie Press) a young Yorkshire local is a sprightly, but naive, small town girl who lives in a run down pub with her troubled brother Phil (Paddy Considine) a recent Born Again Christian.While on her summer break Mona coasts the towns outskirts on her ten quid, motor-less step-through. When Mona crosses paths with a young upper-class girl, Tamsin (Emily Blunt) on one of her 'rides'  they instantly form a fascination with each other.Tamsin is sexy and brash with a confidence that seems to bely her years. Full of culture and mystery she proceeds to spend most of her time with Mona opening up a world that previously had not existed for the young local girl.As they chat about Nietzsche, listen to Edith Piaf, take magic mushrooms and generally run a mock in the village, the girls form an intense bond that soon turns turns into a classic summer romance. However trouble is brewing as Mona's brother Phil learns of their relationship. Phil sees Mona's love for Tamsin as a illness that needs to be cured by the hand of god. In an interesting twist his attempts to warn Tamsin away from Mona sees his true nature exposed.My Summer of Love builds slowly and surely to it's climax through the relationship of Tamsin and Mona. And although it can be described as a coming of age film the story culminates in a clash of culture, family and deception that sees any sort of "sweet summer love" clich&eacute; blown out of the water. Press and Blunt at times seem a little out of depth with their characters, although this doesn't take away from what is an interesting skew on the usual young love tale.Considine is perfectly unbalanced as the ex-con who preaches the word of god with the same vengeance that he once drank and fought. Summer of Love may lack the depth and chemistry of films such as Heavenly Creatures however it also lacks much of the darkness, making it entertaining albeit unchallenging cinema.