We witnessed The Simpsons losing steam last season (S12); As we enter season 13, it is painfully obvious that the producers have abandoned the tried and true techniques which made the earlier seasons such masterpieces of Hollywood history. Gone is the wit and intelligent humor; Gone is the satire and parody of contemporary American culture; Gone are the memorable quotes and most of all, gone is the laughter. In their place are plot-driven cartoon dramas, reminiscent of your average live-action sit-com, with dull humor which appears to be aimed the lowest common denominator (as if the producers felt that anything witty or intelligent would be far above the heads of their intended audience and offend them).
  Whereas previously, you could watch Simpsons episodes countless times and still laugh and enjoy them and even find things you had missed in the previous 30 viewings, with this new crop of crud, you watch the episode and are bored immediately, and have no desire to ever re-watch them, because once you have seen the story (the drama which has replaced all the jokes) you've seen all that there is to see.
  Perhaps the producers felt that if they had continued on in the footsteps of previous seasons, that they would grow stale; but there was nothing wrong with that formula, as it did not even seem formulaic, as it always managed to generate interest and enjoyment and contained many levels so that the show was appropriate for every demographic group; but in departing from what had made the show so beloved and great, they have made the show one-dimensional and formulaic, and have removed all satire and intelligence, and all the little references to obscure things and the jokes that only a percentage of the audience would "get" but which would keep that percentage coming back for more, because this had been the only TV show to offer us such treats.
  In addition to the show itself, the quality of the commentaries has also seriously declined. With the previous seasons, I'd enjoy the commentaries as much as the show itself, and would watch them every time I watched the corresponding episode....but now, it seems the commentaries consist largely of cast and crew members sitting around watching the episodes and laughing at them (at what, I don't know) and occasionally making a semi-relevant comment or observation.
  The packaging, as with the previous season, is abhorrent and ridiculous, and seems to suggest that this DVD set is a disposable item. I formerly felt no shame in admitting that I- a 48 year-old man- was a fan of a cartoon.....but I would never want to admit to watching this stale witless garbage which is season 13. Not that I was expecting too much with S13, as I had heard that the quality decreased markedly- but as one who does not watch TV, purchasing these DVDs was the only way I could view previously unseen episodes. I had looked forward to seeing these virgin (to me) episodes which I'd never before seen, but as I quickly came to observe: The magic is gone and we are left with just another bland empty sitcom. Somewhere before this season, The Simpsons jumped the shark. The show has become as bad as the cheap packaging in which it now comes. :(