Yet again, I wish that Amazon would let reviewers give half stars, as I can't quite put this into the 3 star category, but don't really feel it's that bad either.  2.5 would be about right from my point-of-view.

I should make clear that I'm not a fan of Dane Cook.  I find his humor just rambling and well, un-funny.  With that said, he does well in his role for this movie.  Not great, but not bad.

Charlie Logan (Dane Cook) is a cursed man and has been since turning down the goth girl who desperately wanted him back in his younger (10 years old) school days.  Anisha (goth girl) put a hex on Charlie so that whoever Charlie was with would find their own true love after being with Charlie, with that true love being the next person they went out with.  Later in life word spreads that Charlie Logan is a lucky charm for women, and the women start almost literally throwing themselves at Charlie so that they could then go and find 'the one'.

Early on in the story we see Charlie at a wedding where he is being toasted as the lucky charm that helped the bride find her true love.  At the same wedding a friend of the bride comes to sit at the same table as Charlie and we meet Cam (Jessica Alba).  Will fate let these two be happy ever after, or is Charlie destined to spend the rest of his life making women happy as they get ready for find their true loves?

The un-rated version of the movie includes plenty of partial nudity and the requisite language mixed in.  The R rating (for the rated version) is certainly deserved as well.

The Blu-ray version of the disc gets mixed reviews from me as well.  It is yet another Blu-ray that doesn't offer the ability to bypass the previews (or at least definitely doesn't make it obvious how to do that).  I am no fan of being forced to sit through previews every time I start watching a disc based movie (especially if it's a movie I've seen multiple times, which would, uh, be the kind of movies I would purchase and own).  Sadly this 'feature' (inability to bypass the previews) seems quite prevalent among Blu-ray titles.  It seems completely disrespectful towards the viewer and just frustrates me.  I guess the disc producers are just trying to offer me time to go microwave some popcorn to munch on when I do get to see the movie.  To be fair, you can skip most of the previews on the disc here just by continually pressing the Next chapter button (fast forward to next chapter).  Again though, not immediately obvious and pressing the Top Menu button results in a 'That operation is not supported here' message.

On the plus side this disc includes the ability to bring up the Blu-line slider.  An interesting book marking feature that shows your current place in the film and allows for setting book marks easily via tips as to which buttons to press on the remote control.  It's a neat feature that makes good use of the Blu-ray Disc remote control for the PS3 (as an example).  Press up or down on the disc on the remote to pop-up the Blu-line slider and check it out.

There are some interesting featurettes and additional content on the disc as well.  Just be aware that those should carry the same rating as the film itself, up to and including being unrated.