When it comes to zombie films, there has been no real innovation in the genre since George A. Romero pretty much invented it and the rules they all seem to follow with his "Dead" films. In order to stand out, you really have to do something special and spectacular. The newest film to enter this genre titled The Dead, doesn't do much other than place the action in the beautiful African landscape, which certainly creates a new landscape for the characters to interact within but does little else to help the plot.

Directed by The Ford Brothers and shot on previously unseen locations across Burkina Faso and Ghana, West Africa, the story focuses on American Air Force engineer Lieutenant Brian Murphy (Rob Freeman), the sole survivor of a plane crash, who must make his way across Africa to get back to his family, fighting off the living dead along the way. He joins forces with local military Sergeant Daniel Dembele (Prince David Osei) who is searching for his missing son. Together they must overcome their differences in order to survive the flesh-eating menace that attack them at every turn.

The film follows all the rules of the zombie genre with no surprises. It has slow-moving zombies, that eat flesh and pass on their infliction through biting you, they can only be killed by a shot to the head, and yet, somehow, despite their lumbering movements, people still manage to get caught by them.

The bottom line is, if you're looking for something unexpected and exciting in The Dead, you're looking in the wrong place. Why do zombies seem to attract our attention so often? Some could say its just the current trend but others would argue (and this reviewer would agree) that zombies are something we can relate to. Unlike most movie monsters that we've seen zombies are tangible, we could visualize an actual plague of such creatures. The idea of defending ourselves against an impending onslaught seems to trigger a long buried survival instinct or perhaps we just love the idea of letting out some aggression without any consequences.

Now on DVD, The Dead looks good on screen; unfortunately this was a standard version not Blu-ray but quite frankly there wasn't within this film that would have benefited from Blu-ray. As for special features, there are 3: first a commentary from the director, second a behind the scenes look at the film and last some deleted scenes.

So for die hard zombie film fans out there, you may want to grab yourself a copy of this film otherwise this time around you're better off popping in Zombieland for a good laugh. No thanks are needed.