Adapted from a Tyler Perry stage play, "Diary of a Mad Black Woman" is the story of Helen McCarter (Kimberly Elise), a polished, pampered, too-naive-to-be-true wife that has been forced onto the road of self-discovery and spiritual awareness, after being thrown out of her home by her husband of 18 years, Charles (Steve Harris), a highly successful, ironfisted defense attorney, in order to make room for Charles' mistress/mother of his illegitimate children (Lisa Marcos). While on her journey, she receives a little help from her mother (Cicely Tyson) and not-so-polished family from the 'hood, headed up by her lewd, crude, pistol-packing grandmother, Madea (Perry in drag).

The impact of Helen's plight would have been just as strong with less than half of the melodrama-turned-wackiness that you're subjected to in the first 20 minutes of the film. Admittedly, Steve Harris is rather convincing as a rat bastard, but that's precisely the problem, because we never learn just *what* it is that Charles is so mad about, which makes his WAY over-the-top enmity towards his lovely, docile, submissive wife of 18 years, cartoonish. Charles' behavior towards Helen wouldn't be totally unbelievable without reason, and Perry has a golden opportunity to give the characters some depth and the film some body by setting the stage for Helen and Charles' breakup, but he squanders this opporunity in lieu of clearing a platform for the Antichrist that has taken on the form of a Black male.

As fate would have it, Helen and her clothes end up being carted away from her Atlanta mansion and shambles of a marriage by Orlando (Shemar Moore).  Orlando is a divorced factory worker (his wife left him for a professional athlete because he didn't make enough money) whose Christian, handsome (in a rough-around-the-edges kind of way), chiseled, kind-spirited, charming, sensitive, sympathetic, patient, understanding, forgiving, affectionate, celibate, and immovable, where winning Helen over is concerned.  The only things he's missing are wings and a halo.

Helen's a Christian woman who feels compelled to remain committed to her marriage, after extenuating circumstances render her husband paralyzed, helpless, and alone. (The twist is that vengeance creeps in and eventually becomes every bit as much a motivator for Helen as her religious convictions.)  This causes Orlando to flinch, but only because Helen completely disappears from his life without explanation, and then refuses to make a decisive choice about her future with him upon reappearing.

There are a couple of subplots regarding Charles' dark background and a cousin, Brian (played by Perry out of drag), a responsible father dealing with an estranged wife struggling with a drug addiction, that I'm guessing were thrown in to add 'balance' to the film, but they're not very well thought out and as a result, rather uninspiring.  The final scene of the movie is a blatant rip-off of the final scene in "An Officer and a Gentleman".  The film has it's funny moments (and I do mean moments), but overall... inflammatory, hypocritical, sappy, a smorgasboard of stereotypes, and the comedy is predictable, regardless of whether you're familiar with Perry's previous workings or not.

I will give Tyler Perry credit for this much...he knows precisely where his bread is buttered.  For those who may not be at all familiar with his work, Perry is a highly successful, wildly popular playwright with an inspiring rags-to-riches story of his own to tell and, to his credit, a list of "Comedy/Drama/Gospel" hybrid stage plays that have grossed probably hundreds of millions of dollars by now and are attractive to a devoted following of predominantly church-going Blacks in America, the majority of them women.  Hence all of the eyes-wide-shut heaps of praise for this *clearly* bad movie that couldn't get a dime to eat if it wasn't of Black people, by Black people and for Black people.

This isn't by any stretch of imagination a masterful piece of cinema, and (dare I say it) it isn't intended to be. It's merely something to get Perry's feet wet in the big screen arena, and to keep the flock hyped until the collection plate makes it around to their pew.  And it's intended to be precisely what it tells you it is...a battering ram "for every Black woman that was ever done wrong by a Black man"... nothing more, nothing less.  So if you're not willing to shift your brain into neutral, or you're not a Black woman (mad or otherwise) and you're not a Tyler Perry fan.....then I suggest that you skip this one.  If you're looking for something truly "inspirational" and you don't already have them in your collection, I'd recommend "Antwone Fisher" and "Coach Carter".