Appleseed will never be hailed as the greatest beacon of anime or manga ever.  It not only has to compete with too many other series, it has to compete with it's own creator's more-famous Ghost in the Shell.

That being said, the older version of Appleseed--unfavorably compared to it's contemporary Akira, an animation I still have yet to see--remains one of my favorites, the OVA to which I attribute responsibility for my own anime fan status; and I was skeptical that a new version could equal it.

Let me say that I was quite pleasantly surprised, as the new version not only equals the original OVA, it even surpasses it.  It's entirely computer-generated, using cel-shading for characters and a combination of cel- and true-shading for everything else.

The character designs are attractive while remaining faithful.  The facial proportions are brought a bit closer to reality from the original, and in many ways, I felt that it would be possible to see someone who looked like several of the characters--Yoshi, Hades, Uranus, Athena, just to name the more prominent ones--on the street.  And while I mention her, this Athena actually looks careworn, instead of simply plain, something the older version didn't get quite right.

The mecha and technology are considered not just for their attractiveness, but for their practical functioning as well, and there's significant thought given to several aspects that haven't been explored much in previous works: the one that sticks out in my mind is during the second fight scene, when a trio of female cyborgs use now-classic monofilament cable "whips," with the effects of such a weapon unflinchingly put on display.

One of my concerns was the favor in OVAs of such affectations as unnecessary nudity; I am pleased again to state that I could count the number of incidents of "fan service" on one hand, and in none of them was there flaunted nudity.  In fact, true nudity exists in the OVA only once, and it's heavily downplayed.

The production treats the plot of the manga with more faith than the original OVA; but unfortunately, several of the interpersonal relationships were altered to accommodate the plot.  The setting itself has received subtle alteration as well: in the manga, small nation-states are scattered across the globe, with Olympus the most prosperous and powerful; in this OVA, Olympus is the last bastion of civilization remaining.

Yes, the plot is predictable.

Appleseed also touches on the larger issues Shirow addresses in the manga, such as freedom, duty, war, and the nature of humanity.  Unfortunately, these are merely touched on, as the OVA doesn't have the length needed to retain the plot and properly address these issues.  But they are still present; the questions are still being asked, even if less overarchingly than in the original source material.

Yes, the animation can look slightly artificial.  Yes, the new Appleseed is a gorgeous piece of work well-deserving of being watched by any true fan of either anime or cyberpunk.