"Did he just write the words 'smart' and 'witty' in reference to the new 'Scooby Doo' movie?" you might ask. Well, yes I just did! I saw this film in the movie theatre on a blind date, and we both had a great time...and mind you, we went at a matinee on a Sunday. The theatre was swarming with kids, and you know what? Still had a good time.
The film's greatest strengths lie in its screenplay and in its amazing cast. The screenplay wisely spoofs the "Scooby Doo" cartoon gently, while at the same time paying loving homage to it. This is not a mean parody, but obviously the work of a writer who understood "Scooby" and, as a fan, is better able to crack jokes about everything from the purported drug subtext to the detestable Scrappy Doo. A "Scooby" project that will actually admit what a horrible creature Scrappy is...well, you just have to respect that. No, this movie does not have a deep plot...but, IT'S SCOOBY DOO! IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO! How many "Scooby" cartoons have you seen that have changed your life? Ummm? Did you just say "None"? Now, you get the point!
I will say that the film breaks the "Scooby" rule only in one area. The "surprise" ending where they reveal the identity of the bad guy...is actually a surprise. Which is really quite surprising in and of itself.
Now I have to rave about two particular cast members...Sarah Michelle Gellar and Matthew Lillard, who were so pitch-perfect in their respective renditions of Daphne and Shaggy that you would swear that the cartoon versions were ripped right off the animation cells and brought to life. SMG has proven her comedy chops and brilliant sense of timing in "Cruel Intentions," and on special comedic episodes of "Buffy." Well, this is her first full-out comedic role in a film that you'll actually want to see (I'm discounting "Simply Irresistable"...Ugh!), and she is a joy to watch. In one particularly great scene, she and Fred's souls switch bodies. Her jubilant expressions, when she, as Fred, touches Daphne's breasts, are an absolute riot. And there's Matthew Lillard, who captures all the sweetness, innocence, lovability and doltishness of Shaggy. He is not only funny but actually touching at times.
Freddie Prinze and the girl who played Velma are not quite as good...but they're more than passable.
The computer-animated Scooby, however, is wonderful. It perfectly mixes the look of a "real" dog with cartoonish expressions. In fact, from posters and TV commericals, I thought Scooby looked not so great, but when you see him in the movie for extended periods, he looks absolutley perfect. He is far better than most CGI I've seen in any film (leaves "Harry Potter"'s pathetic attempts at CGI in the dust), except for, perhaps, "Lord of the Rings."
With all of this said, I'm not sure how well this movie would play for someone who is not a fan of the cartoon or has just never seen it. The movie is very dependant on in-jokes, so my review is from the persepective of a Scooby-phile. If you are one, I promise you will dig this movie. If you aren't, you might still enjoy it, but not quite "get" all of it. I'd recommend a weekend spent watching reruns on the Cartoon Network before you watch this film.