Some time has passed since Rambo was brought in from the edge by Col Trautman and we find him doing his jail sentence in a labour camp. Trautman comes to Rambo with the offer of a mission which, if successful, could bring him a pardon to go back into Vietnam for Marshall Murdock and get evidence of American POW's still being held there. When the parachute drop goes wrong Rambo finds himself behind enemy lines, betrayed by his own people but yet determined to get the POWs out. Things get worse when he finds the Russians are involved as well.  When the opening credits tell you that the film was written by Stallone and James Cameron you can't really claim that you weren't warned that the story may not be that great (although both men have some good stuff under their belts as well). True to expectations the story is pretty poor and is essentially just a series of shootouts against baddies that are really pantomime villains. Although the original Rambo didn't manage to be as interesting and insightful as it could have been, it feels like a really intelligent movie when viewed next to this movie and having Rambo deliver a pro-vet rant in the final few minutes is not any compensation and it is about as subtle as a brick. However this is not a problem if you just came to the movie looking for Rambo to shoot 'them' in big action scenes cause he does.  Sadly this 'Commando' style action has dated badly and modern audiences generally require more intelligent action (comparatively anyway); I no longer just accept the one-man against the world thing as an acceptable scenario. It still works if all you want to see if things explode and tonnes of anonymous enemies get killed however it is hard not to find it all more amusing than exciting. I thought the direction in the First Blood was OK but here George P Comatose pretty much lives up to his name and just carves out an unremarkable action movie. It's all very basic and the characters are just big cardboard cut outs in stereotypical mode hero, baddie, POW, politician etc, I didn't really care about any of them, which is a shame when you think of the aims of the original story.  Stallone is pumped up and daft at least in the first film he was more than a character but here, aside from a rant, he is just a big action man nothing more. Berkoff is a terrible ham and he is an awful bad guy here put him in a dress and he would be a pantomime dame. Napier, Wood and Crenna are all recognisable faces and add that if nothing else.  Overall this is a big dumb action movie in the style of the 80's (one man against an army) and if that's all you want then that's what you get and you'll enjoy it. However it is hard to ignore the fact that the story is poor, the action overblown, the performances weak or hammy and the 'message' reduced to a single 60 second rant by Stallone, which is obvious and crude. I enjoyed it as a stupid action movie but the sheer volume of weaknesses in this film makes it difficult to call it anything other than silly fun if you're in the mood.