So here's the story in a nutshell: Igor Stravinsky writes "The Rite Of Spring." It's panned by critics, but Coco Chanel likes it. Seven years later they meet again and she invites him to live at her house so he can get back to composing. Igor and his wife and kids move in. Hilarity ensues! You see, the youngest boy, played by an unknown actor who closely resembles an Uncle Buck era McCauly Culkin, likes to play practical jokes on the hapless servant staff, while daughter Ludmilla writes goth poetry in her diary about how "nobody understands me!" And did I mention their lovable dog Skamps? He drives Coco nuts when he tears up all of her skeins of jersey!

No, actually, I made all that up. Sounded riveting, didn't it? Unfortunately, this DMV waiting line of a movie is anything but exciting. It's a long and grueling waste, where a pair of boring, broken jellyfish flail incoherently and languorously in between uninspired soft-core porno scenes. My suspension of disbelief hasn't been this absent from a film since I re-watched the He-Man / She-Ra Christmas Special as an adult. I was incapable of accepting that the people I was watching on the screen could be good at anything other than awkward glances, stilted dialogue and vegetable-like body language, let alone be globally renowned virtuosos and savants. For Pete's sake, even their sex was uninteresting!

Coco Chanel was a genius who revolutionized the fashion industry by taking unorthodox approaches to her craft.

Igor Stravinsky was a genius who revolutionized musical composition by taking unorthodox approaches to his craft.

The people who made this movie are trite hacks, using goofy film tricks, teen drama level narrative and non-linear "art school" edits in a feeble and misguided attempt to pass off a dumb screenplay as fine art. How do you mess up making a movie about two world famous masters of their craft so badly? How do you make people who were so vibrant and intense and productive seem so utterly drab and useless? How do you miss so thoroughly the point of the subject matter, that the uniqueness of beauty lies not in its flourishes, but in the burning furnace of its core?