I regret to write as someone who hasn't read Pushkin's work - and so it seems, I was quite taken aback at the film's ending. Well so to speak, I was expecting something more tragic or dramatic - like Onegin being involved in a duel with Tatyana's husband - a reprise or retribution of his earlier duel with Vladimir - something along that line.

Given the relatively curt storyline, I'm little surprised with the director's treatment of the stills - they are done in probably the most evocative and subtle manner that neither compromises the mood of the tale nor bores with its treatment of ennui (although some visual interpolations were quite disturbing). Rather, it presents ennui with a jaded ardour, an aristocratic bearing that is most artful and befitting of the theme. Though all in all, the pace of the movie is slow - perhaps in lieu of the storyline, which many viewers may add that the written version of the work is more palatable.

Tyler as the ingenue is a premium choice for her blend of insousciance and boney, chiselled looks, while one can hardly find someone garbed in a George IV Era high-collared coat and immaculately tied cravat more dashing and perfect than Ralph Fiennes for the role of Onegin. Fiennes' debonair nonchalance is so effectively emanated to the point it becomes off-putting to the viewer and Tyler's contrasting transformation could perhaps have been played to greater effect by introducing more dialogue between the duo.

Not too sure if Fienne's hair was deliberately swept back to mark the transition or the reigning fashion - Onegin was visibly haggard - which perhaps justified Tatyana's response?

The costume was impressive - the styles were modelled closely to those of the late 1820s and early 1830s, with a clear fall in waistlines of the Empire style corresponding with the fall in shoulderlines. Hair was cropped in the shape of a vertical pole - yet perhaps the Russian style was considerably more restrained than its European counterparts in terms of adornments and lacings.

Amidst watching the show, I realized Fiennes would be the perfect muse for portraying, in terms of his chiselled looks, aristocratic bearing and brooding demeanour - the Poet of the Piano, Federic Chopin.

Whoever got Hugh Grant as Chopin in Impromptu would be kicking himself had he been presented with this consideration!

I could have given the film 4 stars if the film's ending was as dramatic as I had imagined it to be!