Now where do you begin with a show that features the 'trifecta' of having a vampire, a ghost AND a werewolf? Well, I'd begin by saying that the BBC (along with the rest of television) has ushered in the newest WINNER in the vampire/supernatural/horror genre!!!

But could I tell you how this particular show transcends the genre for me? By simply TRANSCENDING it!!! I mean, it's something about the characters--how they're written, how they come off...I mean, they're so...how can I put this...endearing to me, that it's almost like an afterthought that they're even supernatural creatures.

And I think that what helps in this, is that instead of lusting after blood, the vampire Mitchell will usually be seen lusting after something to eat. Like the opening shot in the first episode, where he's scrambling to the front door to get his pizza.

And the thing with Annie is that instead of being bitter and gloomy about her predicament--I mean, she IS supposed to be a ghost after all, she goes about being happy and supportive most of the time. Like she's the house mom, maybe?

What I like about George, is that even though he gets to transform into a very ferocious werewolf, his character (in human form) could almost be described as being scared of his own shadow.

I mean, what I find so very interesting regarding all of the characters in this show, is that (by tradition) you'd expect them to be one way, yet they're written in a way that's almost the complete opposite.

I say almost, because throughout the course of the show, particular aspects of what you feel the characters should have, DO come out. Though you're never really overwhelmmed by it. I mean, these particular aspects come out when and ONLY when necessary.

I think what I like about the show more than anything is the writing. Because of how the show is written, it wouldn't necessarily need to be about vampires and ghosts and what have you, to be interesting. The whole dynamic here just seems to work and I found myself completely taken in from the very first episode, right down to the last. (It also helps that the series has a very attractive and appealing cast.) And it's something about the actor Aidan Turner, who to me, makes a very striking vampire. He kinda has this edge and this darkness about him, but then his personality comes off as being so very fun loving!

I'd say with the right kind of backing, I could see this show going the way of the X-Files and hitting the big screen!!! (Seriously!!!)

Only time will tell!!!

In the meantime, I'll be waiting for season 2 of this really terrific show to come out.