I've heard a lot about Cronos through friends, and it's been on my Amazon Wishlist for sometime.  I never got around to buying it, and when I saw the Criterion Collection version available, I knew it was time.

Cronos is a fantastic grim fairytale (not grimms) with all the dark realism true to the fable genre.  Del Toro's style, though not as obvious as in his later movies, is still prevelant.  He blends alchemy, vampirism and modern horror seamlessly.  The makeup effects aren't anywhere as good as you see in today's Del Toro film's, but the imagery is there.  I think Cronos fits right in with movies like 'City of Lost Children' and 'Brazil'.  Not so much for the content, but for the dark yet rich visuals and the unique strangeness and brilliance of it that makes the movie a gem.

  Like Pan's Labyrinth, the strength and courage only a child is capable of is perfectly portrayed through a young girl who watches her grandfather unveil almost all of man's weaknesses as he is seduced by immortality and ultimately blood lust.  Without the young girl, Aurora, I'm not sure the film would of had so much emotional resonance.  Her acting isn't as great as the young lady in Pan's Labyrinth, but Aurora's silence is enough to make you empathize with her character and see that she has a deep personal connection with her grandpa.  She endures and absorbs so much throughout the story, and her undying love and affection for him proves the power and resilence of a child's spirit.  She always believed in him, even when she knew their was something deeply flawed about him.

I'm not sure all that was the point of the film, but I was so touched by the relationship between Aurora and Jesus Gris her grandfather.  Ron Pearlman is always great; he's such an underrated actor.  I love his character in Cronos, and his relationship with his uncle is a powerfully dark contrast to Aurora's and Jesus's.  I think if you want to watch Pearlman's magic without the Hellboy costume, you need to see him as the quirky loose-cannon Angel La Guardia.  Great acting all around.

It's not a gorey or graphic film.  It's a touching and thoughtful movie that strangely enough uses alchemy and vampirism without neccesarily fitting into the horror genre.  I think this is where I mention it's in english and spanish with subtitles.  It includes voice-over options for those opposed to reading.

The special features are extensive and worth it:
Two audio-commentaries, Geometria~ an unrealesd short film by Del Toro, interviews and a video tour of Del Toro's home office and personal collections.  Trailers included for all you completists.