Though little time is spent detailing the front line, World War II is present in the forefront of every scene in "Ballada o Soldate." Why, then, are only two deaths witnessed through the course of this film: that of a Russian soldier who gives up his position and that of a beautiful woman killed by Germans? Why, one might also ask, do the characters, even those in most impoverished conditions, remain as a unit brotherly and optimistic?

This story, stripped to its bare-bones plot line, might indicate some very different feelings to someone unfamiliar with "Ballada o Soldate." Private Alyosha Skvortsov, while fighting on the front, has just endured a stroke of luck that both saves his life and destroys two enemy tanks. In reward for his accomplishments, he is given the privilege to take a six-day leave of absence to visit his mother in his hometown. After a long series of detours, he reaches home with only enough time to hug her, say some kind words, and rush back to the front. During this time he has met and fallen in love with a young and equally innocent girl. Then he is killed.

Does this sound like a happy story to you? When I first viewed this film, I anticipated one of a thousand things that would go wrong from the moment Alyosha left on his journey. The longer it took for the hammer to fall, it seemed the harder such a blow must be to such an unrealistic boy - for Alyosha is truly depicted as innocent as a child. This is a punch I was amazed to find was never dealt.

This is the difference that makes "Ballada o Soldate" an important film today. Faced with numerous gruesome depictions of war in story and in film, "War Is Hell" seems to be the popular slogan in the 21st century American mind. This was obviously not the case in the Soviet Union, when this movie was first released. While "Ballada o Soldate" remains fairly realistic in scene depiction, character reactions to such hardships are unfalteringly positive. Even at the end, when the audience - and perhaps the private himself - knows that Alyosha is returning to his death does the mood remain brave and patriotic. Propagandistic, maybe, but "Ballada o Soldate" insists war is not Hell; war is a duty.