Caddyshack without a carmudgeon of doubt has to be regarded as one the funniest films of all time. It is the epitome of hilarity and quite possibly the greatest film involving the sport of golf ever to be made. (Dont attempt to mention Happy Gilmore in the same breath unless you've seen this film. Even after viewing it that opinion will be considerably less valid.) The only slight flaw you will notice while viewing Caddyshack is the fact that it appears slightly dated but this is mainly due to the eccentric nature of Rodney Dangerfield's wardrobe which does not concur with any date or period and also his golf gear; (i.e. the stereo that is built into his multicoloured golf bag.)

The film assembles an all-star cast for its time. This includes the irrepressable Rodney Dangerfield. The late Dangerfield will be most remembered for his clinical, sharp and cutting one-liners and this is exemplified with great bravado and exuberance through his character Al Czervik, a wealthy property magnate. Thus providing Mr. Dangerfield with a perfect character to play. Caddyshack was shot during the peak of his comedic powers.

Despite this fact it is a young and budding Bill Murray who steals the show, something which he has made quite a habit of doing throughout his career. Murray plays a semi-retarded, stoner, greenskeeper by the name of Carl Spackler, enough said. It is also fact that Murray improvised the majority of his part, including the Dalai Lama speech which by the way will leave you in tears of laughter.

Cheevy Chase also exudes comedic genius throughout the film. Chase combines some very subtle physical comedy; (i.e. The tequila drinking scene where he sniffs the salt, throws the tequila shot over his shoulder and puts the lemon in his eye.) with some pearls of deadpan wisdom without batting an eye to those around him. This film epitomises Chases' painfully brilliant talent and easygoing screen presence that sadly has gone awol in recent times.

Ted Knight is another all-star who plays the obnoxious Judge Elihu Smails. Knights' character is the representation of the snooty, old-fashioned nature of the golf establishment. Knight plays the dithering and arrogant Judge Smails with a surprising amount of charm and once the film has reached its conclusion he is left with little dignity in his lack of decorum. Brilliant.

Chevy Chases' protege in the film is the character of Danny Noonan played with great vulnerability, bravery and charm by Michael O'Keefe, think Matthew Broderick pre-Matthew Broderick.

Despite the all-star ensemble the lesser characters also play a major part in making this film a classic. Not to mention the characters Spaulding Smails and Lacey Underhall played by the beautiful Cindy Morgan.

All thats left to say about this film is watch the bloody thing if you haven't already and repeat this process if you have.