Yes, these are the edited versions of "The Cosby Show Season 1". I am a loyal fan of the show and have all the ORIGINAL episodes on VHS. I didn't even make it past the 1st show when I realized I was ripped off. And it's not just a few seconds, it is entire scenes that are cut out. One scene that I was looking forward to seeing betewwn Cliff and Claire in the 1st episode was completely gone.The DVD will be returned tomorrow and I recommend that no one buy this junk!  I thought I would share with you the 1 response I got from these people "We truly appreciate your enthusiasm regarding the Season One DVD release of THE COSBY SHOW, one of Carsey-Werner's most cherished projects.  We sympathize with your concerns relating to the syndicated episode versions.

To provide some background for you, THE COSBY SHOW SEASON ONE DVD would not be a reality had the network versions of the show been used.  The licensing fees for the music cues often add up to exorbitant dollar amounts thereby prohibiting the release.  You will find that other studios and distribution companies exercise the same practice of using syndicated versions of a show, which include revised music cues.

Please be assured that the edits made to the show were done with the utmost of care and concern by the original producers.  These changes were limited to transitions and in most cases did not include dialogue and/or important moments.  Every precaution was made to ensure that the integrity of the show was not in any way compromised.

It should be noted that due to the passionate response we have received from collectors, we are seriously pursuing the possibility of using the network versions on ALL future releases.
Thank you for your concern and feedback.
Carsey-Werner Distribution
c/o The DuVernay Agency

Well that's sweet, but it doesn't change the fact that they falsely advertised their product and fool us into buying it. At least the producers of "Roswell" had the decency to tell us that they put new music in the DVD episodes and included with the DVD was a letter from the producers explaining. I did contact the head of the company I bought it from and she agreed to give me a gift certificate for the amount I paid for this FRAUD. (...)

And for those who are complaining about us, just go watch your edited Cosby show on Nickelodian, and leave this to the true collectors!