This movie was a favorite amongst many when it first came out in 1990, and more than a decade later, this movie *still* remains a classic, and will continue to be a classic for many more years to come.

The story is simple, really: young Kevin (Macaulay Culkin) is the underdog of the family; always getting picked on by his older siblings, and feeling like an outcast. One day, he gets into it with his older brother, and Kevin ends up being punished. During his punishment, he wishes that he could spend a christmas by himself without any of his family members. Wouldn't you know it - due to his family's carelessness, they accidently leave Kevin home on their way to the airport (to fly to Paris for Christmas vacation.)

And from there, the fun begins. While Kevin is home by himself, two bumbling, nincompoop burglars (played by Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern) known as the "Wet Bandits," set their sites on Kevin's house. When Kevin figures this out, he sets the house up with all sorts of tricks and traps, to out-maneuver these two clowns. And it's *hilarious* (listening to Daniel Stern's agonized wails -- as if he were castrated -- leaves me gasping for breath!) Anytime I watch this movie, these scenes in general have a way of bringing out the devilishly-maniacal, mischievous kid in me (and no doubt, many other viewers as well.) Of course, the movie isn't all about brash, goofy slapstick; there are some moving moments scattered throughout the film (particularly when Kevin befriends an old man - who is feared throughout the neighborhood - who teaches Kevin a few things about life, as well as receiving a little bit of advice from young Kevin along the way.)

Home Alone, Home Alone 2, and National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation are the Christmas comedies I find myself coming back to most. Indeed, all three of these films are classics that should be watched around the holidays, or *any* time of the year, for some non-stop entertainment & laughs, as well as some heartwarming sentiment beneath it all.