Black Narcissus, from Britain's brilliant director/writer team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, is a genuinely erotic masterpiece about Anglican nuns in the Himalayas (shot at Pinewood studio but the matte work is so good it feels like location work). It exhibits a formal control of mise-en-scene (framing, lighting, colour, visual texture, music, choreography and set design) that is a paradigm of classic melodrama and incidentally elicits some deliriously audacious performances from its assembly of players, especially those of the film's leading protagonists Deborah Kerr as the appropriately purse-lipped Sister Superior and Kathleen Byron as Sister Ruth whose sharp, pointed physical features are exploited to the maximum. Byron's sexual repression, fired by the sight of David Farrar in khaki shorts and the heady Himalayan atmosphere ("there's something in the air here...") teeters on the edge of hysteria and finally explodes into full-blown Gothic madness. Her wraith-like confrontations with Sister Clodagh(Kerr)-whose alter ego she is-in the climactic sequences are operatic and thrilling. Watching Sister Ruth apply lipstick in front of Sister Clodagh after she discards her nun's habit is like watching a striptease. Powell exerts tight control over all his sexually charged images through potent staging (like the endlessly resonating image motif of the bell-tower where the protagonists finally fight it out to the death).

Besides David Farrar (a virile performance) running around provocatively stirring up all the nuns, there's some wonderful exotica on display: Sabu is a very naive but very sexy local Prince curious to learn about Christianity and extolling the charms (to Sister Clodagh's chagrin) of Farrar's drunken, fruity harmonizing of carols during a Christmas service;Jean Simmons appears with eccentric Indian makeup doing a belly dance surrounded by Tantric images on the walls of the former "house of women" now transformed by the nuns into a "house of God"; and there's a series of strikingly oneiric and hypnotically beautiful flashbacks in Ireland that condense the story of Kerr's romantic disappointment prior to her becoming a nun. There's also the throbbing, pulsating score that reaches a frenzied proportions in strong counterpoint to Sister Ruth's flight. It's the kind of exhilarating melodramatic headiness that only film and grand opera sometimes achieve.