SEABISCUIT was a very good "movie-movie" with an underdog theme and I'd recommend it to anyone, but it wasn't without flaws.  I don't want to seem to "dwell on the flaws" -- this IS a four-star review, after all -- but this review will highlight and coalesce some of the less admirable aspects of this expensive, high-production movie because so many others have sung its praise so commendably.  This isn't a pan--just one consumer's viewpoint who has seen the film both in theater and twice on DVD with bells and whistles.  
The acting was noteworthy.  At the least, convincing (Jeff Bridges as the title horse's owner, Tobey Maguire as Seabiscuit's gentle jockey); and at best illuminating: Annette Bening as the Bridges' character's first wife, who had to carry a lot of the emotional baggage left over from a highly truncated first third of Laura Hillenbrand's bestselling nonfiction book, on which this movie is based.  
Leaving out of the movie such not-so-minor historical details as the San Francisco earthquake (which proved the validity of the panic-proof Horseless Carriage and made a millionaire out of Jeff Bridges' character, Buick franchisor for the West Coast), SEABISCUIT as briskly as possible establishes the rags-to-riches biography of the man who made his fortune selling cars--and then, ironically and much like Henry Ford, developed a taste for the idyllic and bought himself a huge estate and became a gentleman squire of horseflesh.  
It isn't easy to do in a standard-length movie what Hillenbrand's massive book did, which is underline the synergy that took place when owner, trainer and jockey all collaborated to rehabilitate the "impossible" Seabiscuit, a "runty" horse, built all wrong and raised to bring out his violent temper.  (Seabiscuit was Man O'War's grandson, but on the wrong side of the bloodline.)  So now, the truly interesting phase begins, the underdog (underhorse?) saga--think of Seabiscuit as a kind of equine Rocky.  
Unfortunately, the movie has to haul out the ol' Hollywood Duck Tape to bring the three guys together convincingly, in essence putting Tobey Maguire's character through seven or eight hellish years of surviving the Depression by racing, roundabouting, and fighting bare-knuckles....but then to backtrack in calendar years, creating a sci-fi type "time anomaly."  [I can almost hear some stereotype of a 1940s studio exec hollering "Where's the love interest?"]  
To accommodate the romantic angle and introduce the owner's courtship of his second wife, and to provide background info for the Depression (for which I am grateful), some number-cooking ensued.  At the point where jockey and owner meet, the plot from the jockey's point of view should have landed him in about 1937, but the movie tells us it's 1934.  Which it must be, according to the conventions of Hollywood Logic; what we're told is true, but the time anomaly results from the script's (or more accurately, the abbreviation of script's) painting the plot in a corner, logic-wise.  In all fairness, Hillenbrand, lacking the restraints of the 100-page screenplay, had the space to tell the real story from multiple points of view and so the numbers add up just as they did in real life.  So while I must give the film five gold stars for good civic intentions and solid acting (and more to kiss than a horse), it gets held back in primary for failure to achieve in elementary arthithmetic.  
Other not-too-subtle signs of condescension toward a mass audience are at hand, the kind we DIDN'T see in the truly top-notch underdog "Gladiator" or "Rocky."  SEABISCUIT leaned a bit much on Hollywood overproduction to puff itself up.  This is such an utterly compelling story that even with the occasional glitch it would have sold better understated than without Randy Newman's (or his assistant's) plebian background music, which made every meadow a vista, every emphasis an epiphany, every awakening an orgasm.  Too many carefully inserted "ta-daa" moments signaled by music or quick cuts that condescended to the audience, a pity in a film derived from a book that earned plenty of real "ta-daa's."  
There is, however, one time-saving plot device which is utterly charming.  It's pure fiction and I don't care.  Kudos plus to the invented (NOT composite) character played by William H. Macy of tipsy radio sportscaster "Tick-Tock" McLoughlin, who broadcasts his own special blend of pixillated pony wisdom and thoroughbred blarney from a tiny studio with a host of noisemakers and musical instruments and the occasional help of a very bored girlfriend.  (If you've seen BULL DURHAM you know the potential the blind eye of radio holds for fabricting faux "on-site" events.)  Much welcome comedy relief that advanced the plot without my really knowing it.  Not to digress, but is Mr. Macy ever in a bad movie??  
I personally think SEABISCUIT is an asset to any family.  Anecdotal DVD material is okay, nothing amazing.  Visual transfer is fine, aural copy is just OK.  I for one found that irritating earwash of not-quite-wall-to-wall background music annoying, especially during the false crescendoes; when I set the home theater receiver (and I have a cheap one) for U-shaped (ampitheater/surround) playback, it wasn't so annoying and blarey.  
Seabiscuit his ownself was a no-bull horse.  Despite the fact that the film comes equipped with some gratuitous bullfeathers, it's still well worth experiencing, and more than once.