It is sunrise in Sydney, Australia. Kangaroos are awakening, and disc jockey Ashley Wallace is wrapping up his all night radio show. Ashley meets with his boss and gets an assignment, to interview ABBA. Suddenly, he is at the airport. ABBA's plane has landed, and they are in the terminal. Agnetha hugs a security officer. Ashley is at the airport, but misses them. He rents a car and drives to the press conference. He gets caught in traffic and misses them a second time. At the press conference, ABBA fields questions about money, traveling, drugs and Agnetha's bottom. Ashley stalks them unsuccessfully at the Sydney Opera House where they have convened for a photo session. We cut to the concert. It is night time and it is raining. Ashley shows up. This time, he cannot get in because he has no press card. Short on cash, he is harassed by a ticket scalper. Bjorn comments on the rain. They leave the stage to fireworks. Meanwhile, Ashley is lying to his boss by telephone. He runs out and buys ABBA merchandise. He tracks them to Perth. In Perth, he interviews fans using his tape recorder. He sneaks into the concert. ABBA's bodyguard catches him and throws him out. He tries to get to them in their hotel. ABBA is reading reviews on their beds. Agnetha's bottom is big news. The bodyguard hears the ruckus outside the door, and Ashley is ushered out. That night in his own bed, he dreams of ABBA, and Agnetha and Frida dote on him. His dream is interrupted by the phone. He tells his boss he is trailing them to Adelaide. In Adelaide, the road crew struggles with the stage. Benny tries out the seating. Vendors sell buttons and posters. Two girls argue whether or not ABBA is sexy. Ashley is getting desperate. He boards the plane for Melbourne. There is pushing and shoving as ABBA enter their room. The look on Agnetha's face says this bit of confusion may have been real. In Melbourne, Ashley crashes the barrier. Stig promises him an appointment early the next morning. He attends the concert that night assured. The audience light sparklers, and Frida takes one. The unlucky disc jockey oversleeps. He is awakened by the passing parade. ABBA make their final appearance, waving from their balcony. Ashley thinks all is lost. He refuses his belated press card. Then the elevator opens, and there they are. ABBA! Ashley gets his interview. His job is saved. Ecstatic, he rushes to the radio station. His cab driver is the same actor who plays the bodyguard. The cabby gives a scathing criticism. The program airs in the nick of time. As ABBA gets on their plane, Benny expresses regret about leaving. The jet wings its way back to Stockholm. Back on their island, we spot them through the window of their summer house. Agnetha plays with a daisy. Credits roll. The camera pans the archipelago.