WARNING...Spoiler Alert!

I'll preface this by saying that I've always been a comic book fan and I also own all of the televised Justice League cartoons which I've really enjoyed.  Doom is a great film and is another great installation in the JL films along with similar releases with Superman and Batman.  However it kind of sucks.  I have read Tower of Babel from which this story is derived (a great story by the way, check it out if you haven't) and I'm OK with most all of the changes made to maintain whatever loyalties were struck with previous cast members, the otherwise most recent JL film Crisis on Two Earths as well as the tie in with the new DC 52 comic where Cyborg becomes a member of the Justice League.  Hey, we live in a commercial world after all and such are the wheelings and dealings behind the makings of such things.  But the one element that could've really made this story great was somewhat brushed over in this rendition.  The fact that Batman is perceived as having betrayed his team members and the psychological drama that would ensue over that in itself is enough of a story to carry this baby much further than it went.  Also, Bruce Wayne is buried in his parent's grave with the bones of his long dead father.  The fact that this has relatively no affect on his ability to act and get his team back into working order just doesn't make sense.  These factors could've made the film an amazing study on Batman and the other characters of the Justice League but their absence makes it another run of the mill WHAM BAM go superheroes flick.  Not that I'm opposed to that but I really had come to expect so much more of the team putting these films together.

That being said, it's enjoyable.  If you've been following, as I have, the previous Justice League animated material, the character design is great accompanied by great animation and of course the voice acting is superb.  Still, as much as I like the original cast of the JL I'm over it and don't mind new actors, including replacing Kevin Conroy.  He's superb as Batman but there are other renditions that are equally convincing which also allow for more depth of character.

I know, I'm bashing here.  I'm a huge fan and am going to re-watch it tonight but I think DC needs to reconsider it's approach on the next JL endeavor.  They can obviously still deliver amazing stories (as visible in Batman Year One; the Catwoman short is also a must see) but perhaps their familiarity with the Justice League universe needs to be mixed with some new blood on the creative side.

Just sayin'!