Every so often, something in my life occurs that so moves me that I have no other choice than to share it with those around me - good, bad or worse.  In this instance,  I am speaking of course about the crusty cinematic turd known as "Troll 2."

Now, I am actually a fan of bad movies.  I like them.  For me, there is a certain kind of charm in movies where you can see the boom mike, or where there are more plot-holes than a barrel of Swiss cheese.  But every now and then, there comes along something that is so grievous, so utterly unwatchable that it causes me intense emotional distress and sometimes actual physical pain and/or uncontrollable vomiting.  Such is the case with Troll 2.  I went into this half expecting something related to the first movie, "Troll" which is actually watchable.  Not so.  First, Troll 2 has nothing to do with trolls.  Not only are there no trolls in this film, but no one even mentions the word "troll" at all.  Instead, we see glances of the film's protagonists, a lot of dwarves with badly formed latex masks (called "goblins" in the "film") and a hideous, frightening terrible out-of-work community theater refugee that's supposed to be their mother of sorts.  I say hideous, because at one point she takes off her "witch" makeup and transforms into what is supposed to be an alluring vixen in an attempt to seduce an underage teenager - that's when the term hideous applies.  The special effects, if they can be called that, are cast-offs from garage projects of local sci-fi fans and junior high school prop rooms.  The acting is, across the board, the worst I have ever suffered through.  It's obvious no one knew their lines, and were just a step away from reading cue cards.  In fact, there were a few instances where they did just this.  Words like "stilted" and "wooden" and "amateurish" would be kind descriptions indeed.

But I've teased you long enough.  You want to know what the plot was, right?  Well, dammit!  So do I!  There wasn't one.  The closest I could ascertain was this:  A kid starts having hallucinations about his dead grandfather, who comes to his bedroom each night to read him gory tales of medieval people whose scalps explode when nasty goblins (who actually disguise themselves as beautiful women with painted-on freckles) trick them into eating tainted ice cream, which turns them into plants.  So the goblins can eat them - the people.  Because they (the goblins) are vegetarians.  Anyway, the boy's parents plan a sort of "Trading Spouses" trip to a small town called Nilbog (goblin spelled backwards - point beaten about our face and neck several times throughout the film)  Upon reaching said Nilbog, the boy discovers that the town is really the kingdom of the goblins in human guise.  In the meantime, his older sister who is dying to lose her virginity has manipulated her boyfriend to follow them to the town in a Winnebago.  Then it gets confusing.  One of boys meets a hot chick running through the woods, being chased by goblins.  They run to a church inhabited by a witch.  Witch turns girl and boy into plants - goblins eat girl - save boy for later.  His pals never miss him.  At this point, we are introduced to some side plot involving spoiled milk that I never understood.  Another teen runs to the grocery store - all they have is spoiled milk for sale.  He gets some, and stumbles upon the church - sees his friend standing in a flowerpot.  Witch returns, kills flower pot boy with a chainsaw and kills spoiled milk boy as well.

Meanwhile, the family has run out of food - they go into town to buy groceries and get the same spoiled milk shtick.  Upon returning home, all of the goblin people have showed up and they have a hoedown with lots of food.  In the meantime, the young boy who sees his dead grandfather is captured and the attempt to force feed him the goblin ice cream, but he's save in the nick of time.  Back at the house, the boy friend and the rest of the family enjoy the musical stylings of the goblin-people square dance quartet while the dead grandpa breaks out of a mirror and scares the whore-sister.  They have a long fight with the goblin people.  The witch returns to the last teen watching a movie in the Winnebago.  Oh, how I longed to be watching whatever that was on the TV in the camper, which happened to be a movie about a chimp in a tutu that could fly with sparks flying out of the tutu.  Anyway, the witch comes, now as what we are supposed to interpret as a sexy seductress. brandishing an ear of corn that she intends to use to entice her last young victim.  To do what, we can only guess.  They make out and the ear of corn turns to popcorn, engulfing the lad and frightening away the witch. Got is so far?

In the epic final battle, the goblins and witch are defeated when dead grandpa and the rest of the family put their hands on the rocks of Stonehenge, which happens to be in the witch's house.  All is well.  Not quite.  The goblins show up again at their real home, change the mother into plant matter, eat her and offer some to the boy.  Neat huh?  No!  It's an hour and a half of my life I will never get back.  I could have been unclogging the toilet or cleaning the gutters or some other interesting chore.  I have never warned anyone away from a movie before, but this is something I must do.  You might be thinking that my colorful description makes it sound like something that might be tolerable, but don't be misled.  DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!  No really, spend the time reading some cereal boxes or something.