The fact that they had been abducted and came back years later is OK. But it ends right there. What follows is a sequence of cliches, predictable occurrances and love stories. If you enjoy watching soap operas, it's a great show. Full of teens in love, husbands and wifes not getting along, people falling in love. - "Oh, I burned my hand" , says the girl. "Let me see it", says the boy holding her hand. The boy holding her hand has supernatural powers. He heals the wound caused by the heat and they kiss. - A beautfiful moment if you enjoy soap operas as I said. But it was enough for me to turn off the TV and go to sleep. If you want to do something that stupid, don't do it using sci-fi as a source of inspiration for the show. Just do another series like Dawson's Creek or the like. I'm sure the ratings would  be higher because there wouldn't be people who REALLY like science fiction complaining about the lack of intelligence and good sense in the show. Besides that, there is this group of people that think that every TV show that features a flying soucer is science fiction. They call me and ask, "Have you seen this new sci-fi show, the 4400 ?". I have to spend hours explaining them that MILLENIUM, THE X FILES, PLANETE OF THE APES, are totally different from it(because they think they are all science fiction thus they are the same). This is the group that I call "THE MIXERS" because they mix things up. If the 4400 hadn't featured that gigantic BLUE BALL, at least you would have saved me the trouble of having to explain these people that there is a difference between good fiction (which seems real) and bad fiction (which things are predicatble, like in soap operas). I still think you can straight things out. Go back to TV and give it another shot. Here's a tip : little by little, you start to forget that they came back from the sky and have powers. As time goes by, this sci-fi thing begins to fade away. Believe me, the audience will not notice it. So by the end of the season, you already have a show in the style of love and teens stories. I'm sure it will definately catch on. Best of luck!