I was lucky enough to find this (used) at a flea market. Before I begin the actual review, I realize that the box clearly reads "Best of...;" which means, for whatever reason, that it will be incomplete.

First and foremost, why Warner Brothers Home Video and HB chose to edit the great introduction, I may never understand (if someone has an actual, feasible answer, I'd be willing to hear it).

Also, this is just me personally, but I didn't think that it was necessary to include all three guest appearances by the Globetrotters (among other reasons, all three of these episodes were already released to DVD). Besides, repeat appearances(Three Stooges, Don Knotts, Globetrotters, etc.) took up nine of fifteen episodes on the discs and left out room for, in my opinion, far superior episodes like "Mystery in Persia," "Haunted Showboat," "Phantom of the Country Music Hall," (Jeannie, Josie, and Jerry Reed, respectively,) and "...Meets the Addams Family."

That being said, I appreciated the inclusion of the "Batman & Robin" episodes (again, maybe one would have done) and "The Weird Winds of Winnona" (Speed Buggy). Also, "Ghastly Ghost Town" (The 3 Stooges) was a better episode than I remembered.

Of course, people are going to disagree with my personal picks for the series and therein lies the problem with a "Best of..." collection. We don't know what Warner Brothers used as a measure for the "best" episodes and, for all we know, they named it "Best of..." because "These-are-the-episodes-we-were-willing-to-pay-for..." wouldn't fit on the box cover. BTC/BCI (the company responsible for the DVD relases of Filmation's cartoon catalogue) released a lot of best of collections but always as a precursor for the full series. I realize that "The Best of the Scooby Movies" was released several years ago now, but there is always still hope for us Scooby fans.

That being said, if found for a decent price, it's clearly a nice selection of cartoons for collectors to enjoy, considering that they are willing to overlook the nuances of the heavily edited opening sequence and the episode selection.