The movie was really great with a very plausible story and great acting by all.  It was casted and directed very well and echoes of the original POTA feature films but with a modern edge to it.  The movie ties in the original series where the apes actually DO take over where before, in the 70's versions, we do not actually see this.  And true to the original version, humans are affected by a virus although the original version has a different cause than the modern version.  I like this version better because it is far more convincing in the whole take over process.

What bothered me a bit is the overly animated movement of the chimps.  When an animal motion is animated in computer or hand drawn, it is once removed from life.  Then it is twice removed from life when it is transferred to film or some other media process.  So it is important for the animators to get it right without overdoing it but with enough "animated" behavior that we get it and are convinced by it.

I didn't quite feel that I was convinced and it wasn't because of the quality of the CG but rather it was the movements.  They were a bit unnatural in various parts of their actions.  The chimps didn't have the heft and weight to them and even some of their moves were overly exaggerated, particularly in Ceasar's behavior as a young chimp.  As a baby, there is very little movement in baby chimps, more clingy and subdued.  They have an instinct to coddle.  As Ceasar grew to be two and three years old, the movements were too rubbery and practically bouncing off the walls instead of looking like heavy, swift, and robust like he is supposed to be.  The apes throughout also moved way too quickly and lightly whereas apes in general have a more weightiness to them.  These animated apes seemed a bit too bouncy and almost too wiggly at times.  This was especially true of the orangutangs.  Orangutangs generally move very slowly and these guys were like spider monkies when they swung around.

Before you start beating me up for my comments, (I teach animal motion and biomechanics in an animal drawing and anatomy class for a university and many of my students are 2-D artists and 3-D animators, just so you know.  I've studied animal motion and behavior for years - and even train animals.  My experience may be more limited than some but enough to know that some of the action was a bit more exaggerated and it did'nt have to be!

That being said, it was a really great film and I eventually lost my critiqing part of my brain after a while and settled in to the movie.  The story was written extremely well.  It was fresh while still keeping step with the 70's original tone.  It was a convincing story, acted well, and had humanity elements in it, fitting for our concerns of our modern times.  The full gamut of human emotions played through this movie, ribboning its way through wave after wave.  Love and compassion pendulated between rage and extreme frustration, we see the world through Ceasar's eyes and his scientist human.  In the end there is the final the taste of sweet revenge and freedom.  The action and plots played out at a great pace also and there were no segways or layers that were not relevant. The movie is pretty fast paced and exciting all the way!

Amazingly done well and absolutely fantastic was the facial expressions that came across so convincingly.  The apes had amazingly realistic expressions (and they had to because they lacked story telling dialog) and their emotions were so clearly read.  The acting with the eyes and body language rang so clear that even a human could read the emotions from their posture and gaze.  Real apes do display various emotional expressions without contorting their faces but this movie went a step further.  Ceasar was a far more sophisticated creature than his brothers so his face revealed a higher intellectual process and you can really see the wheels turning in his eyes!  What a fantastic job!

The whole movie was an amazing production for everyone involved.  Especially the actors and digital animators - they should really be commended and get a award for this.  Awesome job!

There were more layers in this movie than the straight line of the original ape sagas.  The multi-layered story worked well and everything wrapped into other layers, coming together at the end.  It is a great movie in spite of my critical comments, and I'm buying my copy soon!