(...)Being a huge fan of the cartoon, it kind of upsets me to give Scooby Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed a 2 star rating.  Then again, it does deserve it.  
This time around, the gang is caught up in yet another mystery.  This time, some evil villain has found a way to turn some of the classic villain costumes into actual walking-talking ghosts.  This happens when the mastermind behind the operation and the so-called Pterodactyl Ghost start stealing costumes from a new museum that opened in honor of the Mystery Inc. gang that displayed all of the costumes.  The whole ordeal causes the public to get a sour taste for the crims solving capers with the help of a twisted newscaster (Alicia Silverstone).  Meanwhile, the rest of the movie has the gang doing there usual thing, but also questioning themselves along the way with how they are failing to help the group.  
Where this movie fails is the characters.  Even in the first Scooby Doo film, they made the characters to be like the ones off of the cartoon "A Pup Named Scooby Doo."  Somehow, the personalities from that show were better than the ones on the original classic, but I forgave them for the new adaptation so to speak.  This time around, no way.  It has taken the new stylized form of Mystery Inc. too far.  Whether it's Fred's (Freddie Prinze Jr.) "everybody look at me I'm all about fame and no brains" character or Daphne's (Sarah Michelle Gellar) "i'm a kick-butt and still damsel in distress" kind of gal or the new Scooby Doo's "i'm about as dumb as you can get, and I give stupid one liners, and I am nowhere near what I was like on the cartoon" kind of dog.  I just couldn't get used to it.  Even Matthew Lillard's Shaggy was lacking something this go around.  I think they got the message last time that he was the best to stay true to the performance, so, this time, they tried to do way too much with him.  Then there is Linda Cardellini's Velma, which isn't too bad in either film.  Congrats.
On the bright side, it was nice to see some of the classic villains return, even if some of them didn't even look like they did in the cartoon, I will let it slide.  For instance, the Miner 49er is now a little fat guy that you can see his teeth and, somehow, along the way, gained the ability to shoot fire.  Where in the cartoon, he was actually a tall, lanky kind of guy that didn't do anything except moan.  Oh wait, maybe they gave him his new abilities cause they used the Zombie...who knows?  One that I did like was the 10,000 Volt Ghost.  I don't think they could've made him any better.  It is really neat to see on the screen.
Yet, it's not enough to save the movie.  The film, like most, has joined the "Sequels not as good as the first club." Yes, there are a couple of good one liners, and there are again some double inuendos that will go over the children's heads.  It just doesn't have the type of magic like the cartoon. Maybe I am just too old school for this new age Scooby Doo, but jinkies just doesn't have the same ring too it.