Who goes there? I mean really who digs up one of the best cult classics EVER just to do nothing with it. John Carpenters 80's The Thing was his Sistine Chapel (I'm still not the same after seeing it and that was 20 years ago). He based his version off of the original book (if you don't know it look at my first sentence) not to be confused with the 50's popcorn sci-fi flick The Thing From Another World. Carpenter also played off of the cold war paranoia going on in the 80's. It was pure raw genius. This Thing based its premise off of every other pointless sci-fi horror flick. Hot female lead Check, Lots of violence Check and a monster check. Too bad that whole plot Thing missed them.
If you're going to re-make (actually a prequel) a movie then be bold and fresh about it. The Thing is neither of these which begs to question, who goes there? If it was to waste my time and make me think I could write (not to mention direct) a better movie than good show! Maybe I'm off base because after all they did get a quality script writer in Eric Heisserer (A Nightmare on Elms Street 2008 & Final Destination 5). Opps my bad I guess they didn't. Matthijs van Heijningen Jr. direction was a white out void of emotion. His biggest fail was not creating that feeling that the walls were closing in on our cast.
The only reason to bring the Thing to the screen again would've been to give the audience another portion of what they loved about the original. This flick failed to flesh out the everyman for himself paranoia. There were no moments that were so revolting that you simply couldn't look away. It was more jack in a box scares than a total freak show that messed with your mind. The only thing messed up about The Thing prequel was how bad they messed it up.

Acting (Ambivalent): The acting wasn't horrid. It's just none of characters were really engrossing. This was mostly due to a rushed script that gave no depth to rich characters. They traded depth of a few characters for plenty of back ground characters. Most of whom lacked a pulse. Once the killing starts it turns into, oh that guy died who was he again? Plus most emotional scenes lacked a proper response from the surrounding characters. E.g. tons of serious drama is going down around me but I'll just follow orders as if it all hasn't quite registered yet. Dr. Sander Halvorson (Ulrich Thomsen) the lead scientist was poorly fleshed out and came across stale. Kate (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) played the now overdone heroine (ever since Aliens every sci-fi horror movie does this, sorry Ripley was a one of kind). Her character was forced but she gave it a go and she's eh. Carter (Joel Edgerton; terrific actor in good movies) plays the American helicopter pilot hero (R.J. MacReady wannabe; if you didn't get that then shame on you) and he's also eh.

Script (Yak): Pitch, lets remake a cult classic. We'll steal the title (I would have gone with "Who Goes There?" But hey that's me) and recycle what we shouldn't from the original (you know flame throwers, blizzards and tough helicopter pilots). Oh yeah and were going to have badder fast moving monsters and a few inconceivable plot twists. Sigh... the problem with this pitch is that along the way they forgot what really mattered. What made the 80's Thing great was that feeling that the walls were closing in on you. That gut check moment of if we don't stop it here the whole world is done.
Also Things move way too fast (this is true no matter how you take it).

The best parts to the script were the very very very end and very very very beginning. Their method for testing if someone was the Thing was well thought out but that's really about it. Overall it's mostly just another sci-fi slasher without the gratuitous nudity (I'm not pro nudity but B slasher flicks at least know what they are and aren't). This Thing doesn't know what it is.

My other grip is when a movie is a prequel/sequel for a universe but they totally don't fit in that universe (most notorious offender is George Lucas). The whole premise that an American team went to the Norwegian camp was lame. We didn't need an American female lead but most importantly we didn't need any Americans. Plus the Thing at times doesn't pounce on potential victims when it could. This made no sense other than to create that big plot twist moment.

Special Effects (Nothing Special about Digital): Special effects in the 80's looked real (Empire, Return of the Jedi, Blade Runner, The Thing, Aliens & Terminator). I appreciate what digital effects can do but they can't do quite a lot. The Thing uses them often which really mucks up the moment by taking us out it. When a monster looks fake you stop living the scene and start to analyze how silly it looks. This NEVER happened in the original. The effects fell short because they lacked the brutal nature of actual monster props, gallons of blood and puss plus the realness of hand crafted latex creepers (When they burn they look real unlike their digital cousins).

Music (where are you): Bum bump bum bump flat line. The heart beat music wasn't here until the last scene (I think the start also but it was brief). That's the best part of the music and it wasn't even used. Wow bad call in a movie full of bad calls.

Fin.