I love this movie.  But, be forewarned, I also love License To Kill.  These are two Bond movies that seem to have either love 'em or hate 'em appeal.  I guess because they stray a bit from the norm.  This one's maligned because it's not an "official" James Bond film.  It's got a few faults, but those are heavily outweighed by the good.  In fact, I find myself wanting to re-watch this one more than quite a few other Bond films.  It's very refreshing seeing Bond as a human being.  Connery's body, like his car, shows wear, but as he puts it best, "it's still in pretty good shape."  In fact, the fights in this one are very believable.  Sean has a tough time of it in many situations and has to actually think his way out of the box which is extremely refreshing.  I've always found real guys struggling to fight their way out of tough situations more exciting than super hero types versus human punching bags which is all too prevalent in films.  Here's a quick list of the bad just to get it over with (and to prove I'm not one of those love all Sean Connery Bond guys): no Monty Norman Bond theme (man! but they didn't have the rights), the actor playing M plays it mockingly, Rowan Atkinson (whom I absolutely adore) is completely out of place as a cartoonish doofus in what is overall a relatively serious entry, not Desmond Llewelyn as Q, some may find the video game scene dated, some may find the running time a little long.  Now for the good (oh, yeah!): Connery is fantastic (human, charming, witty, tough, etc.), Barbara Carrera creates one of the sexiest and most wicked Bond villainesses ever, Kim Basinger is smokin' hot, Brandauer's Largo (the main baddie) is one of the slimiest and realistic Bond villain's in history, gorgeous locations and beautiful underwater photography, suspenseful shark scene, the exploding pen (boom!), a terrific opening twist, witty one-liners spoken to perfection by Connery ("I made you all wet.", "Yes, but my martini's still dry."; "Mr. Bond, I need a urine sample.  Could you fill this beaker for me?", "From here?"; "You know that making love to Fatima was the greatest pleasure of your life.", "Well, to be perfectly honest, there was this girl in Philadelphia...", "SHUT UP!", ETC.).  If you haven't seen this one, definitely check it out.  It's a blast!