There is not a single conservative scholar interviewed in this PBS special. And yet we get to hear from radical liberal scholars like John Dominic Crossan, Elaine Pagels and Helmut Koester. I guess we should expect an unbalanced perspective since PBS created the series.

So much of this series is based on tenuous theory and the ultimate picture given is horribly skewed. At one point Pagels wonders out loud how the movement she's depicted could have possibly been successful. She says it's a mystery. Of course it's a mystery since she's gutted Christianity of any identity.

The Nag Hammadi texts are said to reveal how diverse early Christianity was. Prior to their discovery, the video insinuates, everyone believed that Christianity was a homogenous movement. As if we never had the writings of Irenaeus, Tertullian and Epiphanius telling about the plethora of gnostic groups of the second and third centuries! Gnosticism was not simply another genuine trajectory within early Christianity though. It was an offshoot, a divergence from orthodoxy. It was, I'm sorry to say, a heretical movement. The pannel acts as if Gnostics had just as much a rightful claim to authentic Christianity as orthodox believers. This is not the case. Orthodox Christians had bishops that were installed by the Apostles or by one of their successors. They had a history and traditions that could be traced back to the apostles. These were points that early Christians constantly made against the Gnostics, but the significance of these claims the pannelists don't even stop to consider.

In the end, Jesus and early Christianity become exactly what these 60's-70's generation scholars want them to be. Jesus turns out to have been someone who emphasized oneness with nature. He was crucified for being politically subversive, anti-establishment. He made false predictions about his soon return since, of course, prophecy is impossible according to these scholars' naturalist worldview.

Early believers were very diverse. There was no orthodoxy as such, only wonderful diversity: cultural diversity, doctrinal diversity, all sorts of diversity. If they were alive today they would be Democrats. They would probably have supported the stimulus package as well.

I get so tired of this sort of thing. It would be nice if for once we could see an honest discussion about some of the "controversial" claims made in videos like this. It's remarkable to me how the left habitually ignores opposing arguments, acting as if they are just telling you "the facts" that are well established by "scholars". Another annoying thing: notice how all the pannel members have smirks on their faces whenever they talk, especially when they make claims that they know are controversial. It's like they revel in showing Christians that their religion is bunk.