I was lucky enough to see this film at a drive in(remember those?)when it 1st came out! I didn't really know what to expect except the small amount of knowledge(that it was a Horror-Zombie
movie)that I got from trailer's on tv. WOW! What a pleasant suprise, &amp; scare! Yep scare; this was probably the last Horror film I saw that did scare me!
 I took a girlfriend w/me to the drive-in that nite. There was another 'horror' film on 1st, but because "Evil Dead" was such a great film &amp; suprise I cannot recall the other film. About 1/3 of the way through the film, we had an incredible,(but thankfully very brief)lightening &amp; thunderstorm descend upon the drive-in! The lightening was so intense for several mins that it actually enhanced the overall 'spooky' feeling of this film! The girl simply kept her eye's covered with her hand, after the 1st violent act occured!!
 Anyway, Sam Raimi(imo)hasn't made any decent films(Except "Evil Dead II" I didn't care for "Army of Darkness")since this one, even though my 22 year old son tells me another 'Zombie-horror film' is in the works from Raimi! Why not? He went on to make a ton of money, &amp; could have used some of it to do what he does best, make another true horror film! But no. We get schlock like
"Spiderman" &amp; all the other junk he's directed.
 Where have all the smart young director's of real horror films gone? Why not make a horror film 1st, take chances like Raimi did, &amp; experiment. I can't recall what "Evil Dead" originally cost..my son told me, &amp; it was a ridiculously low figure, a figure that most independent film director's can work wonders with if they're truly talented! Another good example is Robert Rodriguez' "El Mariachi", or Tarrentino's "Resevouir Dog's". Now the last was a higher budget independent film but you get the idea. Where are the director's willing to take a chance on showing their genius(like Raimi did here)in a horror film.
 The performance by the cast is phenomenal, including that by Bruce Cambell. However, the unique placement of the camera's(the overhead tracking shot while Bruce is walking or running through the house, along with the 'wooshing' sound each time he passes
through a door, reminds me of Scorsese's great end seaquence of the brilliant "Taxi Driver", when Travis has killed everyone &amp; saved Jodie, &amp; sits on the couch while the police arrive. Martin
actually cut out a huge section of the upstairs floor to get his shot, &amp; I would imagine Raimi learned his technique from that?)and the excellent very creepy, segments in the house's basement, along with the great use of fog &amp; gore make this probably the greatest Zombie film ever made.
 I sure hope my son's right? Raimi needs to return to 'what got him going in the 1st place', &amp; new,1st time director's NEED to give the Horror genre a 'shot in the arm' &amp; revive it, by making it their 1st film. One can only hope. What a wonderful, clever well thought out film by a 1st time director&amp; a group of no name actor's! Bravo. But please, we want more.