I remember when this first aired on Saturday mornings. I was just outgrowing the kiddie stuff but still at the age of enjoying animation, and this fit me at the stage I was at. It had great animation and an exciting story, while simultaneously being sexy and violent, much more so than usual Saturday-morning fare. It also was in a serialized format, like the old chapter plays, and could develop its world and its story at leisure. The animation allowed them to be inventive with the creatures used. And there was great punchy music that sounded appropriate for a pulpy space adventure.

In retrospect, it all makes sense; the show had originally been made for prime time, but got relegated to the kiddie slot. The show was a pioneer of techniques never seen in American animation before. The serialized format was novel for US TV and would become par for the course 25 years later.

The first season is the best; it's all one long story, with Flash battling Ming and rallying the peoples of Mongo to unite against the common foe. The show underwent a disastrous revamp with the second season; under network pressure, it was made more kid-friendly and a cute dragon was included. Instead of a serialized story arc, we had two short individual segments. As a kid, I remember abandoning the show in disgust at that point, and I'm told that the change was a ratings disaster that doomed the show. It's too bad; the first season was a great show for older kids and adults who enjoyed a fun series.

Bear in mind that this show is not strictly kiddie litter; it was pretty violent for Saturday mornings. I remember being initially surprised at the aerial battle scenes, which routinely showed Hawkmen being disintegrated.

And a drawback shows up if you sit down and watch the whole first season in a marathon session (as I did); there's a lot of footage repeated and reused, to the point of becoming tedious. I can't speak for the second season as I find the kiddie-oriented redo difficult to watch. I'll have to give it a try and simply fast-forward past the cloying antics of the cute pink dragon.

This is worth looking for and watching. It's probably the most faithful modern version of the Alex Raymond strip, and is great viewing for those who enjoy old movie serials and pulp sci-fi. Space the episodes out over time (I'm alternating it with episodes of the original "Jonny Quest" and chapters of old movie serials), and have fun.

EDIT: I finally made it through the second season. Crikey, it's bad, and one gets a sense that the makers' hearts were no longer in it. The changes forced on the show by the network took away much of what made the first season so different and exciting, and instead it became a run-of-the-mill action/comedy for kids. One big thing was a change in the characters' attitudes. In the first season, it was all about defeating Ming. Now, Ming is still alive, and they know where he is, but instead of actually doing something about it, they just clown around in Arboria until either Ming or the Witch-Queen Azura makes some half-hearted attempt to cause problems. The dialogue became more dumbed-down and kiddie-oriented. Zarkov disappears as a character and is only mentioned a few times. On its own, I guess it wouldn't be half bad as an action show in the He-Man vein, but the big shift in style, tone, and target audience ultimately doomed it. They should have stuck to the original formula.