Oh! My Goddess is an anime worthy of both the uninitiated, and seasoned anime veterans alike.  It begins, innocently and expectedly with character development and ends in a flare of tense emotion just before a happy ending.  Centering around Keichi, a young college student holding down the fort at a men's dorm with nothing to eat, and three goddesses summoned forth one episode apart with an accidental call to the "Goddess Help Line".  Belldandy is the first of the trio, and she appears offering Kei a wish when she answers his misplaced take out order.  Thinking it a joke, he wishes her by his side forever, and a "contract" is made.  Clearly though, there is more than a contract binding this couple to one another, and that is the mystery that unfolds as Kei tries to woo his remarkably innocent girlfriend from the heavens.  This is definatly aimed towards people with an idealistic streak, or who at least appriciate such idealism.  Love conquers all, and even a small kiss may throw all luck's weight into your favor if it comes from the right person.  The extra features on the DVD may not appeal to some, though.  There are the standard stills, but you may not page through them at your leisure.  Instead, they are themed somewhat to music, and cycle of their own accord.  The usual English and Japanese audio tracks are present, as well as subtitled, untitled, and partly titled video.  Myself, I do not appriciate the lackluster feel of the dub, but it turns out handy all the same, at least when a younger audience comes to visit.  A neat, if not entirely useful extra is an audio track with no voice, only music and sound effects.  This track is labeled facinatingly enough "Dub your own Oh! My Goddess".  For a real die hard anime fan, it might prove an interesting project.  I don't have that kind of fandom, but I do find it interesting.  At only 2 DVD's to the complete series, it's only a light footstep in your wallet when compared to many other anime staples of the Americas.  Some suggestive scenes are depicted, but nothing serious.  If you are light on money, and heavy on romance, this is the anime for you.