First:  This is a deceptively GREAT film.  (. . .)P>Like all Kasdan films (good and bad) this film is, first of all, a visceral dynamo of sound and vision..  The thumping helicopters, oppressive and threatening, quite accurately depicting LA's mood at the height of the crime and crack era.  Certainly there is that lush and epic feel that is Kasdan's chosen genre and signature matrix.  
Frankly some folks are clearly offended by his style and I believe that these critics are probably more comfortable with black and white indies, Mamet, and Woody Allen (who, incidentally, fits the self-inflated pretentious mold much more successfully than Kasdan).  But there appears to be a pre-determined spite for the genre and also for any film attempting to deliver a non-cynical "message" that stains these reviews and focuses a sad, questioning light on the personal POV of the writer.  
I personally love all genres of film... so call me a movie whore. 
I may be a sentimentalist.  Certainly Frank Capra captured my tears and soul many years ago.  However, I loved the dark unhappy endings of the 70's, and the most obscure animations of the Balkan film studios.  In my own life I have personally struck the gamut of postures, including that of a smug and cynical film buff.  Cynicism says far more about the cynic than about the film.  I believe that those who hate this film as yet clearly and sadly lack the ability or courage to see the underlying message.  
It is a simple and powerful and true one.  There are 2 forces that ultimately define our lives and actions:  Love and Fear.  
Fear houses chaos and hate. Intolerance, bigotry.  Paralytic inaction and cynicism.  Violence and dishonesty, and all those other, you know, "bad" things.  It is simplest to follow your fear:  you only need to say "NO" and you are done.  You only need to destroy, and you are finished.
Love heals, connects, enriches, energizes.... and requires you to act, again and again... to commit, to give, to build, to maintain and nurture, to create.  To touch a stranger.
That takes courage, and often a huge effort to break your pattern.  The results are often mixed.  It can only be prosper as a path, not a result.
The message of the film was simple and profound.  The epic execution was Kasdan's effort to grab your attention, to get you out of your everyday thinking, to drop all the distraction so that the simple message would be heard above your everyday din:
Learn real Love. Then act on it, with each person with whom you come into direct contact.  Hear them, then give something of yourself to their best part.  That simple truth is at the heart of the great prophets... whether Jesus or Muhammed, Buddha or Ghandhi, King or Sadat, Mandela.....
You change the world one step at a time... affecting each person you meet with each action you take, with each focusing attempt to listen.
If you think this is pablum, then try to figure why so many of those who espoused it were tortured, killed or assassinated.  
If people weren't so isolated from what's happening around them, who knows.... who knows what tragic events in history might have been averted, or what great dreams may yet come to pass.
But it only happens one touch at a time.  Make the difficult and courageous choice every day.  Be Kind, Respect, Forgive... and above all, learn to Love.  
Yep... this is a great film.