"Licence to Kill" is really a GREAT action film in the BOND Series. Sadly, TIMOTHY DALTON only made two of them. I would place him at the top of the list were it not for the groundbreaking Sean Connery. But if you pay close attention, Timothy gives several dimensions to the character and I feel it more closely resembles Ian Fleming's BOND in his novels.

Old BOND friend "Felix Lieter" played by David Heddison (of "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea" fame) reprises his role here.

Yes, the spelling of "LICENCE" is different than the U.S. (License), but it does give it a BRITISH flavor. Afterall, BOND does work for British Intelligence (MI6)-  HELLO!!!

I would rate the "BONDS":

1. Sean Connery
2. Timothy Dalton
3. Pierce Brosnan (actually a TIE for second)
4. Daniel Craig
5. George Lazenby (On Her Majesty's Secret Service)
6. David Niven and Peter Sellers (orig. Casino Royale)

It may not be a CLASSIC to other BOND Fans, but it rates pretty darn high in my book. As BOND goes rouge, it was a nice change of pace to see him out of his element; as well as "Q" getting more screen time this time around. Desmond Llewelyn reprises his role as well. Sadly. Desmond passed away about ten years after this film.

Talisa Soto as "Lupe" could have injected more into her role, as the acting is something less than good. But on the other hand, Carey Lowell as "Pam Bouvier", does a decent job. The bad guys include Anthony Zerbe (a made for tv/movie villain) playing an excellent role as "Milton Krest" (he gets framed by BOND and is killed rather gruesomely). --- POOOF!!! --- Robert Davi as the main bad guy "Franz Sanchez, is also as good. But the main supporting role goes to the.......IGUANA!

Memorable gadget, the "signature camera weapon". Exciting finish with the oil tanker semis! Good directing job by veteran John Glen.

ENJOY the film, give it a chance and you won't be disappointed. Unless you are not a true BOND fan and just rate films solely on the actors involved. There's gotta be more than that....