Jennifer Lopez gets married. Jennifer Lopez gets beat. Jennifer Lopez gets revenge. If it sounds like a tv movie, you're on the right track.  Domestic abuse is by no means an ordinary subject, but the filmmakers decided on the generic route and the result is two overdrawn hours of clich&eacute;s. There's nothing to expound on because you already know the formula; Slim (Lopez) and Mitch (Billy Campbell) - nice names - are in love, then he starts using her face for boxing practice. She decides she's had *enough* and, with their daughter in tow, makes a run for it. Slim's not going to take this lying down though, and she learns some hybrid of boxing and karate to combat his abuse. Watch out, Mitch......
So many good things could have come from this film and yet it amounts to little more than two hours worth of dead brain cells. Regardless of her personal life, Jennifer Lopez is a decent actress, given a strong script. As there is none, she walks through the film, looking doe-eyed at times, tough at others, but mostly like she'd rather be making a music video. I actually enjoyed Billy Campbell's departure from his usual cheeky, nice guy role, but again, stretching a wife beater (no pun intended) around him doesn't exactly create character. And that's the problem with this farce of a film; there's no complexity to any character. Noah Wylie makes a brief appearance, coming and going whenever he pleases.
So, some unanswered questions the filmmakers never bothered posing. Is it a drama, is it a thriller, is it a crime film? Who cares?! Slim isn't even interesting enough to elicit our empathy. Why was this film made? Certainly not for profit because it managed a negative dent at the box office. Nor were the writers much concerned about drawing out the emotional and physical strengths and weaknesses of women who suffer domestic violence. The heart of the story lies here; unfortunately, paychecks and slick production design got more attention, and we've all had enough of that.