Welcome to the wonderful world of real estate, where the golden rule is "A.B.C., Always Be Closing (Glengarry Glen Ross)."  This means lie, cheat, steal and do whatever it takes to "get them to sign on the line which is dotted (Glengarry Glen Ross)."

A highly competitive group of real estate salesmen struggle to close deals in a tough market with weak leads.  In an effort to motivate the team, corporate bigwigs raise the stakes of the monthly sales contest.  Blake (Alec Baldwin), the corporate henchman on a mission to enforce the rules, announces the prize: "First prize is a Cadillac Eldorado.  Second prize is a set of steak knives. Third prize is you're fired (Glengarry Glen Ross)."

The intense ultimatum is music to the ears of Ricky Roma (Al Pacino) who is the office superstar.  However, rivalries erupt under pressure and the office becomes a breeding ground of anxiety, tension and desperation.  Shelly Levine (Jack Lemon) clings to his faded glory while the other agents, Dave Moss (Ed Harris) and George Aaronow (Alan Arkin) concoct a profitable scheme to get them back on their feet.  When John Williamson (Kevin Spacey), the snide office manager, announces the good leads were taken during a robbery, everyone is a suspect.

Glengarry Glen Ross is a splendid film adaptation of David Mamet's 1984 Broadway play, directed by James Foley.  This is an exceptionally well-written script with a phenomenal cast that transforms material, which is not inherently cinematic, into an interesting and intriguing film.  The film does not rely on special effects to hold the attention of the audience; it achieves this with a natural dialogue that realistically portrays multi-dimensional characters.  The characters are complicated with a mix of good and bad in each of them.  They banter back and forth, interrupt each other and at times it's hard to tell who's right and who's wrong.  These conversations add interest and enhance the reality of the film.

Glengarry Glen Ross is not what anyone would consider a feel-good movie, but there is appeal in the testosterone driven behavior of these characters that use memorable lines like razor ribbon to cut each other down.  I find it interesting that some have claimed Glengarry Glen Ross is about the "evils of the free-enterprise system."  I feel it is more about basic human evolution and survival of the fittest in a cut-throat world.  This is evident in the fact that Ricky evolves to be the top-dog and consequently leads his mentor, Shelly, into proverbial extinction.  They are all like animals struggling to survive in their environment.

David Mamet contributes greatly to the film's success with an exquisite script.  However, the attention to detail within the set design is noteworthy because it adds irony and reality to the film.  A majority of the film is set within the walls of a drab, depressing office which is filled with inspirational wall hangings containing messages that seem to daunt more than inspire.  Additionally, a picture of Shelly Levine's daughter sits on his desk in serene contrast to the all-male cast and surrounding chaos.  The irony continues throughout the film and enhances the empathic feeling at the end.

Although some feel the performances of Al Pacino and Jack Lemmon stand out among the cast of equals, I disagree.  I feel each performance stands out individually without overshadowing the other and allows us to view into each of the character's psyche.  Some characters have more time on screen and are more likeable than others which may influence opinions.  Oddly enough my favorite character is Blake.  Blake does not appear in the play, but was added by David Mamet in the film adaptation.  He is a heartless narcissist who takes great pleasure in his nefarious behavior and even goes so far as to show everyone his "brass balls".  Even though Blake is a man I love to hate, he has some of the most memorable lines in the movie which I have been quoting for years.  As I reach for a cup of coffee, I can hear Blake's voice saying: "Coffee is for closers (Glengarry Glen Ross)."

The collaborative effort of David Mamet and James Foley produced a film which successfully transitioned a theatrical performance to the screen without losing any of its integrity.  The effective use of close-ups keeps the focus on the dialog which is the quintessential element of the film's success.

Glengarry Glen Ross. Dir. James Foley. Perf. Al Pacino, Jack Lemmon, Alec Baldwin, Ed Harris, Alan Arkin, Kevin Spacey and Jonathan Pryce. New Line Cinema: 1992, Film.