A misconception with this film is that it's a remake of Stanley Kubrick's classic version. However, it is simple a remake of the novel by Vladimir Nabokov - and a much better one at that. The time in which Kubrick made Lolita (how could they ever make a picture of that) was stiff and he had to rely more on wit and insinuation than blatant content. Thus, his version seems very watered down, and doesn't have nearly the wit, the sardonic humor, or the sick obsession coming through that this new version is able to have. Even this film was met with opposition, even in the late 1990's.

The acting of Jeremy Irons is superb. He's funny the one minute, sick the next, and lovestruck in the next - and we are convinced by all of it. Dominique Swain's portrayal of Lolita is by far better than Sue Lyon's original in 1962. Lyon seemed too old, and her actions and simple externals made it rather unbelievable. Swain, though, was merely still a child when Lolita was made, and gives a gutsy, visceral, real performance that should be lauded as the best of her career. There are some holes here and there, but it's forgiveable, to be honest. She gave a great performance to a very meaty part - especially since she had never acted before in her life. Bravo. The portrayal of Lolita is more like the book's as well, with touches of childhood mixed in with sensual adult characteristics. The way the movie was filmed (out of order, like usual) Swain, growing up in real life, seems to grow in one scene and go back to being a child in the next. The differences are neglible, though, because the Lolita character in the novel was neither a child nor a young adult. It's a little bit of unintentional play that I found rather interesting.

Frank Langella and director Adrain Lyne's portrayal of Quilty is also much more like the novel's. In the novel, his name is only mentioned a few times until the ending chapters, and Humbert Humbert only sees him as a bald head with a moustache, slipping in and out of he and Lolita's lives like a sick chameleon. His performance is superb as well, albeit short.

American audiences, of course, satisfied with blood, murder, gore, and obscenity, hailed this film as "inappropriate" and it got a hard time. The fact is, the subject matter of the book is very appropriately and intelligently conveyed. The novel was smart, lyrical, and beautifully written - and this film adaptation is also smart, lyrical, and beautifully made.

I read the book after seeing this movie version, and I have never experienced any film coming closer to snagging the book's story - but more importantly it's character and life. It's one of the best, if not THE best adaptations I have ever seen.