MAGICAL MYSTERY TOUR was filmed in the fall of 1967, and was The Beatles' first major project after the death of manager Brian Epstein.  While the film's soundtrack (a double-EP in Britain, an 11-song album in America, which was also imported into the UK, where it was eventually released on cassette in 1973 and on LP in 1976) was an enormous success, the film was not.  It was first shown on the BBC on Boxing Day (26 December) 1967 in monochrome (most British viewers had black-and-white TV sets) and was not received well by the public, or by critics ("blatant rubbish" and "tasteless nonsense" were two of the milder descriptions).  A second colo(u)r broadcast appeared on BBC2 on 05 January 1968, but only the few Britons who had "colour" TVs saw it, and the damage was done.

In America, both ABC and NBC withdrew their bids for a network broadcast of MMT; the film made its U.S. debut at New York's Fillmore East a few months later as part of a fundraising concert.  Over the years, Apple rented the film to colleges and indie movie theaters.  The film did not appear on American TV until it was syndicated in 1985, which was where I saw it for the first time.  A few poor-quality VHS tapes appeared in the early-to-mid-1980s, but the first proper video release was in 1988, when Apple and MPI Home Video released <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6301095294">an official VHS tape</a>, with a restored soundtrack by George Martin.

In 1997, MPI released the film on DVD; I own <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00004U0ZP">The Beatles DVD Collector's Set</a> that was released in 2000, which contains the original MPI DVD versions of MMT, HELP, THE FIRST U.S. VISIT (both of which have since been restored and re-released by Apple), and the Phil Collins documentary <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6305073694">The Beatles - The Making of A Hard Day's Night</a>.  MMT has been out of print for years, although it has been bootlegged, but has just been re-released by Apple in DVD and Blu-ray format, as well as the Deluxe Collector's Edition, which I purchased.

To be honest, the film is no CITIZEN KANE or even A HARD DAY'S NIGHT.  But it is a good piece of entertainment, and contains seven terrific Beatles songs:  the title track, "The Fool On The Hill," the instrumental "Flying," George Harrison's "Blue Jay Way," the classic "I Am The Walrus," which appears in full stereo all the way through, and Paul's "Your Mother Should Know," which is the film's closing production number.  "Hello Goodbye" plays over the closing credits.  The Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band's rendition of "Death Cab For Cutie" (featuring future Monty Python member and Rutle Neil Innes) is also an hilarious classic.  One of the outtake scenes, Nat Jackley's romp around the pool with pretty girls, directed by John Lennon, features an unreleased Lennon-McCartney instrumental called "Shirley's Wild Accordion," played by accordionist Shirley Jackson.  The stereo and 5.1 surround-sound soundtrack is excellent, and the picture restoration is good too, although some of the colors have faded over time.  There are also four deleted scenes that are hidden on the main menu in the form of "Easter eggs"; two of them can be accessed by going to the "Play Film" option and clicking on the up-arrow or left-arrow key on your remote; the other two can be accessed by going to the "Audio Options" option and using either the up-arrow or right-arrow key.  Sir Paul McCartney's Director's Commentary can either be listened to, viewed with subtitles if you don't want to override the film soundtrack, or both.  There are two sets of subtitles; one for the main film, the other for Paul's commentary (11 languages in all).  The subtitles also apply to the special features.

See Amazon's product description for more on the special features on the DVD and Blu-ray.  The Deluxe Edition is worth having for the additional 60-page book, including essays by Sir Paul McCartney and Barry Miles, and an "itinerary" of the scenes shot in the film.  There is also a reproduction of the original mono vinyl double-EP that was issued in the UK in 1967.  This brings my MMT collection full circle; I purchased the stereo EP years ago as an import; I have three versions of the vinyl album - the original 1967 Capitol LP (with three fake stereo Duophonic songs), the all-stereo German issue from 1971 (with the pink cover) that was the template for the later CD release, and the 1976 UK Parlophone pressing that is identical to Capitol's.  I also have the original CD from 1987, the stereo/mono CD version of the EP, issued in 1992 as part of the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000008DB7">Compact Disc EP Collection</a>, and the remastered mono and stereo CDs from 2009.

While it's not the best film, it's worth having, especially if you're a Beatle fan.  Stripped of the dialogue, it would make an excellent long-form music video (unfortunately, there is no "songs-only" option).  4 stars for content; 5 stars for packaging and quality.

Hopefully, if director Michael Lindsay-Hogg is right, the elusive LET IT BE will finally be out in 2013, and that a newly-restored 50th Anniversary edition of A HARD DAY'S NIGHT will be released in 2014 (the Miramax version from 1999 sucks - I watch the older MPI DVD).