Please allow me to be one of the first thousand people to say, "it's about time"!  This film was sorely missing in action for so long I nearly gave up on it!  And I for one am glad they gave it a full-screen 1.33:1 treatment in addition to the letterboxed widescreen 2.35:1.  I mean, it's not like we are trying to squeeze 6 horses and a chariot into the frame in Glengarry Glen Ross, this film is an intense character study, and the closeups are so very necessary.  Many snobby dvd websites make remarks all the time like "who watches fullscreen versions anyway?" but a movie like this demands fullscreen--- in fact, if you compare the fullscreen and letterbox-widescreen of this movie, you will notice that the letterboxed version actually omits some top and bottom information, it is masked apparently just to satisfy the always-vocal widescreen TV owners!  Look at the Alec Baldwin scene and notice that his tie is not showing in closeups on the widescreen disc.  But look at the same frame on the dreaded "fullscreen" disc and you see the knot of his tie in all its corporate glory.  Fullscreen looks right.  I am one of the quiet millions who have normal sized televisions (in the 19" to 32" range) and I prefer the fullscreen versions to the widescreen every time---FILL THAT SCREEN!  
This Glengarry Glen Ross dvd looks great, the sound is very clean and clear, and if you can't understand a snippet of sales-dialogue, just a touch of the subtitle button fixes the situation.  The soundtrack to this film is exceptionally cool jazz, and sounds so much better than we were forced to endure on VHS for 10 long years.  The dvd menus also give you a bit more of this music to sample.  Two nice interview snippets from TV show Kevin Spacey doing the "Go To Lunch" scene with a nervous acting student, and Jack Lemmon talks about aging and getting the good roles.  There is a nice tribute to Jack Lemmon as well featuring his son, director James Foley, and actor Peter Gallagher mainly, and two sales-oriented seminars.  I would have liked to see the trailer for this film, but maybe there wasn't one... after all, this wasn't an FX-laden summer blockbuster, it was a Pulitzer Prize-winning play made into a film, and the movie stands on its own simply based on merit:  Taking into acount the acting, the script, the direction, and the music, there really is not a bad frame in the entire film!  This movie is a masterpiece.  Get yourself this dvd, put that coffee down, and enjoy!