The life of a man who is involved in police work is never predictable or normal compared to a normal person's standards. That comes with a job that's main line of work is dealing with some of the darkest individuals that walk the earth. But what happens when the worst of the corruption is occurring within the Precincts themselves? NYPD Detective Jack Mosley has dedicated his life to police work, but now that he's getting older, he has become rundown, injured, and dependent on alcohol. As he is about to go home after an all night shift, his lieutenant tells him he has one more job to do, a nice and "easy" one. All he has to do is transfer an inmate, Eddie Bunker, to the court house 16 blocks away. What he doesn't know is that this particular inmate is scheduled to testify against six dirty cops, including his old partner. He also doesn't know that there is a whole police force willing to kill him and the inmate to keep the truth silenced. A 16 block trip would never be as memorable or thrilling.

16 Blocks is an action packed thrill ride from beginning to end. Directed Richard Donner, who also directed such action-thriller's such as the Lethal Weapon films and Conspiracy Theory, brings back the old formula that made the Lethal Weapon series such a success. Plenty of action + smart and original plot + unexpected comedic scenes that draw laughs - typically bad and overdone action scenes. The most important part of most of Richard Donner's movies is that they are all fun to watch. And 16 Blocks is no exception. With surprises on every turn, the script and delivery keep you fully engorged in the film.

Detective Jack Mosley is the sort of role that Bruce Willis was born to play. He is a gruff, man's man. Beaten down, depressed, and just plain exhausted from too many sleepless nights working on keeping the streets clean of the worst of New York City's criminals. A role that fits Bruce Willis to an eerie likeness. Mos Def, as the stupid, but likable, prisoner Eddie Bunker is solid. The script must of called for a man that sounds as if he has some sort of disablement or someone that is uneducated. The voice that Mos Def uses sounds just like Damon Wayons' homeless character from In Living Color. So much so, that it seems that he ripped it off from him, and those who know voice from the former comedy sketch show, may get distracted from character.

16 Blocks reminds me of such films as Phonebooth and Panic Room. Which were both good in their own right, both crowd pleaser's, and both fun, but both not as good as they could have been. 16 Blocks is not a bad film. It is a slightly above-average action-thriller, but the film does not disappoint. Any one that has enjoyed any of Donner's past movies of the same genre will enjoy this film. Donner may even gain more fans from this film. For those who like sticking to light and toilet humor comedies, or those who enjoy chick flicks, this is probably not for you. 16 Blocks is no classic, but it's deffinitly good entertainment.

3.25 out of 5