Based on the generally positive, even enthusiastic, reviews from most professional movie critics, I expected a lot of this movie. Perhaps too much. And so, I was rather disappointed. It is a very interesting and beautifully photographed movie, but it has a number of defects that to a large extent ruined the experience for me.

First of all, the movie script made two fundamental changes to the original book on which the movie is based, which are serious mistakes. In the book, the children's father dies as a result of an airplane accident in the Australian desert. This is a very reasonable and plausible dramatic mechanism to explain and justify the fact that the children find themselves lost and abandoned in the desert. In the movie, instead, the father kills himself, with an apparent half-hearted and failed attempt to kill his children as well. This whole scene is extremely unpleasant and makes little sense since nothing is explained about the reasons that might have driven him to not only kill himself but also to condemn his children to a horrible slow death in the desert.  Also, in the book the young aboriginal that helps the children to survive dies of a virus transmitted to him by the children. This makes sense since aboriginals had little contact with white people and therefore presumably their bodies have not developed defenses for many microbes carried by whites. In the movie, on the other hand, the aboriginal kills himself because the white girl does not respond to his mating dance, which seems extreme and not really credible.

Another element in the movie I didn't like is that invariably all white characters are shown as highly unpleasant and even disgusting (the father of the children, the hunters, the Italian meteorologists, the company employee they find at the end) while all aboriginals are shown as very nice and good. I found this naive and simplistic.

A final negative element is that the nude scenes of the children, particularly the beautiful 16 year-old girl, seemed somewhat exploitative to me. What was really the point of the long nude bath of the girl in the pond? A much shorter scene would have made the point better.