This is my favorite comedy movie and that's saying something.  I love comedy and comedians. This movie is in a category of its own.  I first saw this movie with my cousin Walter Gabrielson in 1969 when it played on one of the late show channels, probably KHJ, in Los Angeles on a Saturday night.  I laughed so hard I missed half the movie.

Fields plays Harold Bissonette, henpecked husband, struggling corner grocery store owner, and disrespected father who awaits fate to lift him out of the painful banality of his life.  Fate arrives with an inheritance from the passing of his Uncle Bean. It is his ticket to California where the state motto is "Eureaka! I've Found it."  He takes a chance on it.

California was the glamorous destination of the 1930's.  My mother told me of listening late at night on my Grandfather's farm to the radio shows coming from Hollywood night clubs and imagining dancing with glamorous leading men.  Bobby Troup's "Get your Kicks on Route 66" was the anthem.  John Steinbeck gave it literary respectability when he wrote "The Grapes of Wrath"  about the Okies piling their jalopies with worldly goods and going to California. Harold Bissonette's eight seater looks much like those jalopies.

Into this story line are plugged the W.C.Fields comic masterpieces that he had been honing for many years.  Here they reach perfection.  The Breakfast scene, the Mr. Muckle scene, the "cumquats" exchange, the "phone call to/from the maternity ward" scene, the sleeping porch scene, which reaches it climax with the "Carl LaFong" exchange.  Then, there is the whole sequence of the Orange Ranch disappointment turned into success by accident.  Rare is the film that is both a period piece and yet an eternal verity.

Fields is obviously the star with top billing, but it is a mistake to think that he could do this alone.  Fields had an ensemble troop that he played his comedy off and they were essential to his work.  In this movie, he had Baby LeRoy, Tammany Young, Charles Sellon (Mr. Muckle), T. Roy Barnes (Insurance agent inquiring about Carl La Fong), and Morgan Wallace playing Fitzmuller who wants the cumquats.

Last but certainly not least is Kathleen Howard who is brilliant as Amelia Bissonette.  When she says, "I have no maid....probably never shall." Her disappointment in Harold is biting.  When, upon seeing the ranch house in California, she proclaims "Ranch house!!! It's a SHACK!"  Her voice penetrates directly into the skull and delivers a jolt to the top of the spine.  She was underrated to say the least.

Norman McLeod was a primer comedy director who worked with the Who's Who of comedy actors.

My Advice:  Get the DVD W.C. Fields Comedy Collection Vol. 1.  This film along with the Bank Dick represent the best of W.C. Fields and the transfers are great.