Unfortunately, The predator franchise hit its high peak in 1987 with its original movie.  A mediocre sequel followed as well as a pair of terrible Alien vs. Predator movies. Now over twenty years later 20th Century is hoping to resuscitate the predator franchise, but will this be another classic or just another in a line of disappointing sequels?

Based on a 1994 script written by Robert Rodriguez the movie makes a brave but ultimately smart decision bringing the setting away from earth to the home planet of the predators. The movie starts with all the characters literally falling from the sky with no idea where they are or how they got there. The predators have assembled a group of the most dangerous humans and brought them to their world for the sport of killing them.

This group of human mercenaries, serial killers, soldiers, and gangsters are lead by Royce, who is played well by Adrian Brody. He embodies the 21st century American soldier, lean, fit but not overly buff like the heroes of old. Topher Grace plays the mysterious Doctor Edwin who seems to be the only person who doesn't fit with the group due to his unimposing demeanor but perhaps it wasn't a mistake by the aliens after all. Walter Goggins (of The Shield) ads some moments of humor playing the deranged serial killer Stan, who was days away for getting the death penalty for his crimes.

The film is at its best in its first half as the characters slowly uncover what this place is and why they were brought here. It plays out like an episode of Lost as the characters make their way through the jungle uncovering strange occurrences and slowly putting the pieces together. Hungarian Director Nimr&oacute;d E. Antal does a nice job at building the suspense and tension in the first half of the movie before the second half of the film derails.

The last half of the film plays out like your typical Sci-fi-horror movie. There is plenty of violence and gore but it is at the cost of the narrative. Like too many movies today the action scenes are almost impossible to follow with quick, flashy cuts and loud fast paced music. The film draws to an end with a predictable ending leaving it wide open for a sequel.

In the end, Predators is not a bad movie but it is almost two movies in one. The first half is a good mysterious science fiction movie and the last half is generic science fiction horror.  The special effects are effective as the filmmakers tried to go with real humans in costumes whenever it was possible and this definitely ads to the believability and menace of the predators. Somewhere deep inside this film is the blue print for a much better movie and partially falls flat due to the promise of its first half. If you are a fan of the series you will not be disappointed and you could have gotten much worse. On the other hand, people looking for an intelligent and cohesive narrative may be disappointed.