As a high school English teacher, I love (nearly) all that is Shakespeare and thoroughly love the Renaissance as a whole. When first seeing the trailers for "Anonymous," I was intrigued and excited, though not ever really giving any credence to the idea that William Shakespeare did not actually write the plays we have come to know as his.

I was extremely disappointed in learning of its severely limited release in theaters (the nearest being over eight hours away) and realized that I would have to wait until it made its debut on DVD. It was well worth the wait.

I agree with the reviews that state that the names can be rather challenging to follow, and I expect that I will need to watch it again, to make sure that I caught everything. However, it is worthy of multiple viewings. The acting and costuming are superb.

Though I went into it with the idea that I would dislike the character portrayed as the "true" author of all that is recognized as Shakespeare's work, I found myself quite sympathetic toward de Vere. Not only did I feel for this man who could take no credit for his great works, but I found myself truly disliking this "Will Shakespeare," a greedy and opportunistic actor who stumbled into the chance of claiming the works as his own creations.

Now, having said all of that, do I believe that William Shakespeare did not actually write what he is credited with having written? No. This movie, an interesting work of fiction, is simply that. However, for the first time, I truly considered the idea that someone other than William Shakespeare could have written all of these works, and due to his/her station in life, was unable to claim authorship of them. Though I do not believe this to be the case, I would truly sympathize with such a person having to live his/her life watching a lesser "actor" claim to be the creator of beloved characters such as Hamlet, Iago (whom I truly love to hate), Benedick & Beatrice, and so many others. It makes for a very interesting what if...

I would highly recommend this film to any who love Shakespeare, the Renaissance, Elizabethan England, or simply have a love of literature. It provides an interesting look at an idea that many of us never bothered to truly consider.