2010 is one of my favorite movies.  I saw it in the theater.  I owned in on DVD for many years and have watched it dozens of times.  When it was released on Blu-ray this week, I ordered it NEXT DAY SHIPPING.  Get my drift?  Well, I should have saved my money.  It looks a tiny bit better on Blu-ray than it does on DVD.  There are no extras on the Blu-ray disc that are not on the DVD disc. The sound is no better.  In other words, if you own it on DVD, don't bother with the Blu-ray.

That said, I think this movie is grossly underated by most people.  As Stephen Hawking himself has said, most science fiction movies are merely westerns set in space.  2010 is different.  Here there are real human emotions.  I can't be too specific without spoiling some of the surprise, but let me make one example.  When the movie came out I was very dissapointed that an Indian actor was not cast in the role of Dr. Chandra.  Bob Balaban's performance in this role, however, is perfect.  His character created the HAL9000 supercomputer (which as I recall was at the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana in the book and portrayed in the movie as the University of Chicago--how's that for nitpicking?)  Balaban shows us a Dr. Chandra who feels for his machines as he would another human being, and there are some very touching scenes in the movie.  At one point Dr. Chandra is asking HAL's follow-on SAL9000 to help him model what will happen if SAL's higher functions are removed, mimicing what happened to HAL.  SAL asks him, "Will I dream, Dr. Chandra?"  Chandra replies, "I don't know.  Perhaps you will dream of HAL, as I often do."  It's a nerd's delight. I love it! Balaban perfectly captures the character, and gives him intelligence and feeling.

The rest of the cast is extremely strong:  Roy Scheider, Helen Mirren, John Lithgow, and others do a great job.  Look for Dana Elcar in the opening scenes at the VLA in New Mexico, and Arthur C. Clarke makes a cameo feeding pigeons in front of the White House.  The story line is much more accessible than 2001, yet the movie contains many of the hallmarks of an Arthur C. Clarke story--IDEAS--not space battles.

I'm downgrading the rating by one star because of the inexcusable poor Blu-ray transfer.  But I highly recommend you see this movie!