As I write (end of April), CMT has been airing the third season of The Dukes each night at 7 and 11 PM EST.  So I've been actually watching, and enjoying, the episodes described in those previous reviews that were actually helpful.

I loved this show as a kid, I would sneak out and watch from the top of the stairs when it was still past my bedtime to see this show.  Back then something like TV was big time important in life.  If nothing else this show always reminds me of those times, when the show was fun and holes in the plot or really hokey writing and situations just didn't get noticed.  And it got it's last revival (when TNN was The Nashville Network and not this Star Trek, err Spike TV stuff) when I was in college (it was only then that I noticed at least a couple episodes made with Coy and Vance were virtually identically remade when Bo and Luke returned to the show).  I even remember seeing at least one episode of "Enos" when it aired (did they even rerun that show?  It didn't last more than maybe half a dozen episodes, if that).  So if nothing else this series always reminds me of good times and being a kid again.

Now, granted, this isn't exactly on the level of Shakspearian playwriting - but the worst TV ever made?  Not likely.  More than likely that's some show made north of the border that is so bad no one has seen it since it originally aired.  Or else it's some of the Cartoon Network's original programming in their Adult Swim block.  My opinion is if you don't have a sense of humor, you can't watch this show.  While I kind of wish it could have run in the later slot for at least another full season, a lot of potential for darker storylines there and the first season to me was the best of the bunch, it still is enjoyable - and something you can watch with kids and not have to worry about swearing, extreme violence or sexual situations...  what does come up is in such a campy way, even I knew as a kid it wasn't real.

Hopefully they have some good extra material on this disc - I would think the cartoon series or the Enos series would make a good bonus to one of these sets, maybe the next season or so with the "replacement" Duke boys (ratings had to be pretty bad if they thought they could make the same episodes all over again with Schnieder and Wopat; so you'd expect the DVD sales would be lower too).