I had initially good things to think about the third installment of Blade, before I saw it.  First, the first Blade was well directed and had good acting.  As such, the script had good dialogue and action sequences were pleasing to the eye.  Secondly, the second Blade topped the first Blade in story, acting, and script.  Everything in the second Blade far exceeded the first Blade.  On the other hand, after seeing Blade Trinity I was very disappointed in the film.

First, the dialogue in the film was awful and the use of profanities in certain scenes did not make sense.  Especially the scene where Dracula fights Blade.  As such, there are instances when certain profanities serve a purpose in a persons current emotional state of mind or in order to illicit an emotional response from someone else by using an emotionally laden word.  Still, the actor that played Dracula was a bad choice and Dracula was suppose to be this great villian ala Frost from the first film, but he was more of a subordinate villian.

Secondly,  the acting in the film was not on par with the previous films, but was on par with direct to video films.  In addition, Parker Posey can act, its just I think she thought she was acting in a different movie, like a corny comedy.  The trailer for Blade Trinity showed Parker Posey as this serious, not to be messed with vampire, but when you see her in the film, she's like a comedic vampire.  Also, the actors were trying to pull the film off like a comedy, Blade was not a comedy, it is of the action/horror genre, not a comedy.  As well, they had a pomeranian (dog) vampire for a comedic device that would be better placed in a comedy than in a blade film.

Thirdly,  the story premise was very weak, but it had good elements.  For instance, bringing Dracula into the film was a good idea.  On the other hand, Dracula did not look like some major threat like Frost or the Reavers, Dracula looked like a threat on par to the pomeranian.  I could not take Dracula in Blade as a real threat and think that not much effort was put into building up the character of Dracula in Blade Trinity.  In addition, when the vampires framed Blade, why did Blade not show the authorities he was a vampire?  I mean he is the proof that vampires exist in the film and therefore he would put credibility to himself in terms of fighting vampires.  As such, I did not buy into certain plot elements.  For instance, (spoiler ahead) when the blind woman was killed and when Dracula used the baby to keep Blade from attacking him felt like deja vu from the first Blade.  As well, Whistler is killed again, no what purpose was served to kill Whistler in the first Blade, bring him back in the second, and then kill him again in the third, that just totally confused me.  Also, the addition of the night stalkers was a bad idea, because the character of Blade (Wesley Snipes in general) is better off as the sole hero (Spider Man, Batman, Superman, the Hulk........excluding the X Men and the Fantastic Four.)

Finally, the film was hard to watch with its poor dialogue, poor script, unfunny comedic lines, plot holes I could drive a semi-truck through, a villian that was as powerful as a pomeranian, supporting cast that dragged the film into an utter cinematic abyss, and it is unlikely that another Blade will be created.  As such, this film deserves no stars and it should be pulled from theaters, then redone like Wes Craven did to Cursed.  But its too bad that Blade Trinity was so bad, because I liked the first two, and was very disappointed with the third film.  On the other hand, Ghost Rider, Fantastic Four, Batman Begins, Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith, and Superman will help wash the bad taste of Blade: Trinity.