Sadly "It's a TRAP" is the final Family Guy take on the original Star Wars Trilogy, concluding the Laugh it Up, Fuzzball Trilogy. According to creator Seth MacFarlane  "It's a TRAP" is to be the last of the Star Wars parodies as the Family Guy team feels the SW prequels are already animated enough (although Peter Griffin expects that the Cleveland Show will do them).  Return of the Jedi in their opinion, and most Star Wars fans, is the worst of the original Trilogy, so it stands to reason that the Family Guy parody of episode VI. should be the lesser of the animated spoofs.  I find that this isn't the case, although there is a disclaimer in the opening crawl to this effect, in actuality this outing is just a funny and irreverent as the rest of the Specials or the TV series for that matter, well maybe slightly less (see Penultimate paragraph below).  The story continues with the familiar characters from Quahog, Rhode Island retelling the story of Star Wars while portraying natural role assignments: Stewie as Vader, Peter as Han, Chris is Luke, Lois as Leia, Brian plays Chewy, Cleveland and Quagmire play R2 & CPO.  "Darkside" role pick-ups return with Carter Pewterschimidt ( as the Emperor and Carl the convenience store clerk is Yoda, Ernie the Giant Chicken returns as Boba Fett and Mort Goldman as Lando.  Great character cameos include characters from the Cleveland Show and American Dad like Klaus as Admiral Ackbar, Roger as imperial Moff Jerjerrod,  Tim as an Ewok and Rallo Tubbs, too. The guest star cameo list again include Rush Limbaugh, Patrick Stuart, Michael Dorn, Carrie Fisher, Anne Hathaway, Mary Hart and of course Mr. Conway Twitty.  The story naturally follows Return of the Jedi's premise,  Han's rescue from Jabba the Hutt and the mission against the new Deathstar begins, while Luke must confront Vader and the Emperor. Then the hilarity ensues as in the previous parodies. Especially notable scenes are the "special edition" CGI sockpuppet appearances and the Seth Green trashing finale.

Of course, like "Blue Harvest" and "Something, something Dark Side" the Family Guy versions depend partly on at least passing pop culture, some Star Wars awareness and partly on an intricate knowledge of Star Wars. This isn't a complaint really, just a curious observation. For example is you haven't seen Return of the Jedi  in it's original non-special edition theater  or VHS format you may not get the Ewok song gags.  Great stuff no matter what, the only thing missing is the staple musical number, like Hebert's Ben Kenobi Dirty Dancing in " Blue Harvest"  and Chris' Luke-Duet in "Darkside." This may be just as well as the later number, seemed forced, no pun intended.

I hope this isn't the last of their straight to DVD parodies, as the series references Star Wars more than any other movies, it was a natural. But, trying to think of a series reference that runs close second, it could be the "Back to the Future Trilogy" "Indiana Jones" or "Magnum P.I."  Well I can dream can't I?