Simply put, the Blu-Ray remaster of THE AFRICAN QUEEN is the greatest Blu-Ray restoration I have seen so far!!
Sure, the restoration is on par with those of CASABLANCA, THE WIZARD OF OZ and GONE WITH THE WIND, but we've seen close restorations of these films over the past 20 or so years. What I'm saying is that - In comparison to the previous DVD release of AFRICAN QUEEN, it is the greatest restoration I have seen!!

After reviewing the original DVD release of THE AFRICAN QUEEN from the early-2000's, I was blown away by the amazing difference from this DVD to the Blu-Ray.
The original DVD appears not to have been remastered at all, but simply transferred from the film tapes to digital format. It is scratchy, grainy, pixelated and the sound is muted, tinny and in what sounds like is a Mono mix.

With the viewing of the Blu-Ray version of the film you will not a crisp, colorful picture (In fact there are colors here that you would have never seen in the film before). There is NO pixelation, distortion or scratches on this film print, even the text during the opening sequence will blow you away!! While Bogart and Hepburn row down the Amazon, we can see beads of sweat on Bogie's forehead, the dirt on his jacket and can see every bit of detail in their clothing!!
And the sound is another thing - What we have here is a full 5.1 surround sound mix of the films audio!! If you have a surround system - You will be indulged in the sound that wraps right around you, instead of listening to it through your one tinny front speaker as you would on the DVD version.
If you don't have a sound system - simply, the sound will still be stunning. There is no tinniness, it's great to listen to.

This restoration makes the film seem brand new!! Anyone who isn't in the know could mistake this for a film made just yesterday!!

If you are a fan of this movie, or of the classics - yet you own it on DVD - YOU MUST STILL BUY THIS BLU-RAY!!!
You have not seen THE AFRICAN QUEEN until you see this amazing restoration!!