I cannot say just how much I enjoyed this movie in the theater, and now that it's out on DVD, I'm ecstatic!  I went to 3 stores before I found one that actually sold the DVD instead of just renting it, but I'm glad I did.
I think this film is grossly misunderstood and underappreciated.  Peyton Reed has done a wonderful job in recreating the fun, silly, romantic sex-comedies of the 1960s.  Everything from the sets, the costumes, the music score, the dialogue, the wide angle shots, and the stock footage -- which borrows from "That Touch of Mink", by the way -- are perfectly applied to this modern homage.  Ewan and Renee give delightful performances that don't attempt to imitate the chemistry created by Rock and Doris, not that they could.  That's a pretty tall order to fill.  Instead, they create their own chemistry, and they do so wonderfully.  
David Hyde Pierce and Sarah Paulson pull some hilarious, showstopping scenes out of their hats as well.  My favorite is the "fight" in front of the elevator.  The People's Eyebrow couldn't compete with the look that David delivers.  No one's kidding when they call this man a comic genius.  
There's some delightful treats in the shape of Tony Randall, too-naughty-for-1962 split-screen phone conversations, and a variety show song & dance number with a funny cameo by Marc Shaiman.  The DVD has a fantastic blooper reel, plus behind the re-creation of 1962 shorts.  Not to be oversimplified, the attention to detail does not end with the glossy gowns.  In this film, we get a social snapshot of our film psyche with references to the space race, dacron vs. garters, cultural stereotypes of foreign countries, the Hollywood version of beatnicks, and feminism before the Women's Movement. 
I've heard some critics complain that the film would have worked better as a musical or it's full of simplistic double entendres and plotlines.  Hello!  Welcome to the '60s!  Take a look back at some of those classic films and you'll see the exact same characteristics and "faults".  Plus, a lot these complaints can be attributed to many of the vapid, nonsensical romantic comedies made today as well. 
What's great about "Down With Love" is that it's not only an homage to those classic films of yesteryear, but it delivers a final presentation that could easily have been lost in a time capsule for 40 years and resurfaced today.  The only thing that pulls it closer to 2003 than 1962 is the frank conversations about casual sex, which just lends credence to the idea as to why it could've been shelved 40 years ago.  It's not that you wouldn't have heard those conversations back then, they just wouldn't have made it to the silver screen.
I hope more people give this film a chance.  People who will choose to sit back and enjoy the movie for what it is -- a delightful, comedic film with a kiss of history that makes us laugh at ourselves.  If you do rent the DVD, you can see in the HBO special that the cast and crew had just as much fun making the film as you will watching it.