The 25th Anniversary Edition of this video includes 5 stories. Other discs probably include more or less, but here are the stories for the 25th Anniversary Edition VHS: Winnie the Pooh and the Honey Tree, Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day, Winnie the Pooh and Tigger Too, a story where Tigger and Roo go on a bouncing adventure in winter. (Forgot the name), and a Bonus Story called "A Day for Eeyore"

Here is a partally full summary of this video...
Winnie the Pooh and the Honey Tree: Winnie the Pooh wants honey and tries two different approaches for honey. Both approaches fail. Next, Pooh goes to Rabbit's house for honey and eats all the jars. But, Pooh can't go out of Rabbit's front door! He's stuck! Next, Rabbit calls Christopher Robin and they try to pull him out. They can't. He's stuck. So they wait for him to get thin again. One day, Pooh moves! Everyone tries to pull him out of the hole. Will the team get Pooh out? Find out by purchasing The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.

Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day: It's a windy day in the Hundred Acre Wood. Piglet gets blown away by the wind and Pooh pulls him on a string. They "fly" to Owl's house. All of a sudden, Owl's House falls down! Eeyore goes to find him a new house. At night, it isn't windy anymore. It's rainy. There's a big flood in the Hundred Acre Wood. Everyone goes to Christopher Robin's house, which can't be affected by a flood. However, Piglet and Pooh are still in the flood. Owl goes to rescue them. Pooh and Piglet float down to Christopher Robin's house and Christopher Robin believes Pooh rescued Piglet. They have a party for Pooh. In the middle of the party for Pooh, Eeyore appears. He says he found a house for Owl. Everyone goes to see the house. Instead of being happy, everyone is shocked. Why are they shocked? Find out by purchasing The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.

Winnie the Pooh and the Tigger Too: Rabbit tries to teach Tigger a lesson because he bounces too much. His plan is to lose him in the forest and find him again the next day. When they find him, he'll be a Tigger that doesn't bounce at all. The next day, Rabbit, Piglet, and Pooh set out to "lose" Tigger. Instead of losing Tigger, Rabbit's plan backfires and someone else gets "lost." Who got lost? Find out by purchasing The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.

Winnie the Pooh and the Winter Story: Tigger and Roo go bouncing in the snow. However, Tigger gets stuck on a tall tree and everyone comes to rescue him. Everyone finally got Tigger down. However, Tigger makes a promise up in a tree that everyone is unhappy about except Rabbit. Why is Rabbit the only one happy about this promise? Find out by purchasing The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. (This story is short!)

Bonus Story: A Day for Eeyore: Eeyore gets stuck in a river and everyone finally gets him out. Rabbit asks Eeyore why he was in rhe river in the first place. Eeyore says that Tigger bounced him in the river. Tigger says he coughed and Eeyore fell in. At the end, the evidence shows that Tigger bounced him in the river. Everyone gets mad at Tigger for bouncing Eeyore in the river. At the end, Pooh discovers it's a really special day for Eeyore. It's his BIRTHDAY! But, he hasn't gotten a single present. Pooh gives him a empty honey pot, and Piglet gives him a broken balloon. Eeyore is really happy. During Eeyore's party, something happens that turns his smile upside down. What is it? Find out by purchasing The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.

One of the reasons my son and I liked this Pooh video better than <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6304400381">Pooh's Grand Adventure - The Search for Christopher Robin [VHS</a>] and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6305942285">The Tigger Movie (Disney's) [VHS</a>] because this movie is funny instead of sad and scary like the other two movies. (Yeah, the Tigger Movie isn't that sad, but it is kind of sad. Pooh's Grand Adventure is scary. If you want to know how scary, find my review on it by clicking the Pooh's Grand Adventure link above, and finding the three star review called "A Sad, Sad Story by S Yan. Wait... This is a review of The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, not Pooh's Grand Adventure! Oops. Now to continue. All 5 stories of this movie is bright and funny. Your child will want to watch this movie again and again.
So that's all!