This is an extraordinary film.  It deals with a compelling subject.  It betrays juicy gossip about fascinating, famous people.  The exquisite design and art direction makes it a superb period piece.  And several of the performances--especially that of Geoffrey Rush--are nothing short of brilliant.

But in the end, the story lets it down.  It comes across as a rivetingly-acted documentary rather than a tale with a beginning, middle and an end.

Frankly, I think it starts too late.

Sellers relationship with his mother was truly creepy, and is rightly credited with his later craziness (which, today, we would probably call a borderline personality disorder). There are two scenes whioch depict it--including one where his mother sleeps with her son to symbolically usurp the role of his recently divorced wife. But neither of those scenes integrate well into the plot, and miss the opportunity to shed light on Sellers character.

As a result, Sellers just comes across as a serial abuser of women, rather than a tortured soul descending into madness, paralysed by grief and emptiness, infecting everyone he touches with his misery.

Further, though the movie starts with a Goon Show episode, it soon moves on to Sellers' later movie years.  My understanding is that the three Goons were lifelong frinds, and that radio comedy was his spiritual home.  Though of lower marquee value, this may have been more fruitful material to mine his character.

That said, the movie is redeemed by its performances--redeemed handsomely, in fact.  It bumps my rating from a three to a four.

Miriam Margoyles too-short exposure as Sellers' mother is excruciating to watch--in a good way.  Emily Watson delivers a poised performance as Sellers' first wife--we can sense the complex mixture of love and misgivings that her relationship with Sellers involved.

Many criticise Charlize Theron's performance as Britt Ekland.  Fair, I think, up to a point.  The Ekland character needed to be innocent--shallow, even--to have been so thoroughly infatuated with Sellers' superficial charm.  But to play her as a brainless blonde (which would make sense of the story) would no doubt insult a living actress, as well as giving her less room to show Ekland's developing emotional maturity as she began to realise the gravity of her situation.  Even so, Ekland has criticised the depiction of her marriage in the movie...and no wonder.  I would be surprised if it were possible to show it in a sympathetic light to all parties.

Rush, of course, is brilliant.  An actor of equal claibre, if not better, than his subject.

And a small plug for Stephen Fry as the closest thing to a villain you'll see.  Delicious, smarmy, evil.