I know this is considered a classic. The theme music is sublime, and it features some great Hollywood actors in their prime. And I am not comparing the film to Kurosawa's, because I think that is an unfair comparison (apples and oranges, so to speak). But after watching this again as middle-aged adult, I found it impossible to suspend my disbelief in the face of one silly situation after another.

First of all, a shaven-headed man as pale as Chris Adams (Yul Brynner), living and riding along the Texas/Mexico border? The back of his neck isn't even pink, much less red! He could have single-handedly terrified the evil bandito Calvera and his men into surrendering without firing a shot. They would have thought he was a spectral emissary from some unknown world and fled in panic at the site of him. But wait, there's more. This ghostly chrome-dome has a Russian accent, but one of his buddies refers to him as a Cajun. Huh?

Even more confusing is the presence of a young white guy with a strong German accent, named... wait for it... "Chico" (Horst Buchholz). Early in the film, Chico demonstrates his lack of skill with a pistol and his inability to hold his liquor, yet Chris Adams later lets him join the Seven, apparently because Chico is good at catching and cooking fish. (Presumably Chris isn't concerned about facing a hail of Mexican bullets with an inept greenhorn at his side, as long as he can die with a bellyful of tasty trout caught fresh from the river).

The film gets progressively weaker as the peaceful Mexican villagers
are given more and more lines, as the adult actors are even worse than the child actors. The accents are inconsistent, and these supposedly south-of-the-border thespians look as if they have never plowed a single furrow or picked up anything heavier than a taco.(However back in the day it may have been much harder to find the excellent caliber of Mexican-American actors that we take for granted today).

The ultimate insult to the viewer's intelligence comes when Calvera (Eli Wallach with some bronzer on his face) runs the Seven out of the village, but then kindly gives them all their weapons back once they are a couple miles outside of town. Suddenly Calvera seems far from the ruthless villain we need him to be, in order for the proper amount of bloodlust to be generated for the final battle to have the neccesary cathartic quality.

Another disappointing feature is the annoyingly frequent appearance of the simpering Horst Buchholz, as compared to the unfortunate underuse of the considerable talents of James Coburn. (Coburn's lines can be counted on one hand, with fingers left over). Some of Buchholz's scenes (clowning around with a complacent bull, mooning at an inexplicably smitten senorita) have a painfully Disneyesque quality that erodes the fine edge that McQueen and Brynner bring to the film.

It just seems like the authentic locations and the several fine actors here could have been put to much better use. Be prepared to enjoy this one merely for the Hollywood nostalgia and overall Wild West atmosphere, but don't try to take it as a serious film or you will be very disappointed.