"A Dirty Shame" finds exploitation's favorite iconoclast in rare form. John Waters has made a lot of films since the days of "Pink Flamingos" and "Hair Spray", but "A Dirty Shame" takes him back to his roots - exceedingly perverse humor that is simultaneously revolting and hilarious. The main difference is his use of major actors, as opposed to his classic band of weirdos (although the remaining members still alive make colorful cameos). But you shouldn't let the presence of professional actors deter you because they inhabit their roles with a gleeful, reckless abandon. Say what you will about Johnny Knoxville - he's just likable on screen and this is a great roll for him.

I haven't enjoyed a lot of Waters' recent work like "Pecker" or "Serial Mom", but I like his early work and I liked "A Dirty Shame." I don't think he does his best work when working within the system, making more-or-less 'normal' pictures. Anytime he develops his own ideas and decides to just go for it, he shows his inimical talent for the bizarre.

The film's MPAA rating needs to be addressed because it shows the wildly hypocritical nature of the film rating business, and yes, it IS a business with kickbacks, favors, and all that. The NC-17 rating is unwarranted. "A Dirty Shame" doesn't begin to match "Pink Flamingos" in its nastiness. There's nothing in the film that I haven't seen in the latest "American Pie" movie. In fact, there's far less than the obligatory "Unrated" DVD of most teen sex comedies. Too bad Waters didn't have big studio backing to convince the MPAA to look the other way. The majority of objectionable content comes from graphic descriptions of sex acts, the sort that is the common topic of locker room discussions at your local junior high. When you consider that many people still believe the NC-17 is tantamount of hardcore pornography, the rating is completely unfair.

Fans of Waters' classic style will most likely enjoy this. While it has some mainstream elements including excellent production values, big-name actors, and and the like, the free-spirited essence resurfaces here. This isn't a great film or anything, but it's fun and intelligent, for a goofy sex comedy anyway. Most importantly, it's entertaining and unique.