An impressive film by one of Hollywood's greatest action directors, Sam Peckinpah. This movie is arguably the best war film to come out of the 1970s. The only other film of that decade that comes close in both grit and epic setting is Richard Attenborough's A Bridge Too Far, which was released the following year. Peckinpah deserves praise for being bold enough to tackle this Eastern Front story by author Willi Heinrich. The film is set in 1943 and finds the Germans in slow retreat before the Russians. The opening scene is riveting. A squad of veteran German soldiers led by Sgt. Steiner (James Coburn) infiltrates the Russian forward position and knocks out a fortified mortar battery.  When the squad returns to camp, Steiner meets his new commanding officer, Capt. Stransky (Maximilian Schell). In perhaps the most compelling performance of the film, Schell plays a dishonorable soldier who cares not at all for the safety of his men, but only for his personal glory. Stransky requested to be transferred to the Russian front from France so that he might earn the Iron Cross (medal of valor), which Steiner already has received. The task before Steiner from that point forward in the film is to do his job without getting killed by Stransky's orders.  Although there are some slow moments in the film that show what life was like in the trenches and the scheming of Stransky and his lackeys, there also are several long action sequences in which Steiner and his squad must stand their ground against Russian human-wave attacks and move with stealth behind enemy lines. Although Peckinpah's use of slow-motion action is not used quite as sparingly and with as great effect as director Akira Kurosawa in Seven Samurai, it is nevertheless a useful stylistic enhancement for this movie and war movies in general.  I believe this film ranks among the best war films ever made and can hold its own alongside Apocalypse Now, Platoon and Saving Private Ryan. Viewers should compare this film to 1993's Stalingrad, also available on videotape.