Despite the creative controls forced by Toho, Shusuke Kaneko delivers a fantastic entry to the Godzilla series, perhaps the best since Biollante in '89. Although there are a few plot elements that could have been better explained, GMK has a strong story and features memorable characters performing some of the most heroic acts since the golden age of the '60s. The effects are top notch, with very few "cringe" moments that often plague tokusatsu eiga. I can only dream of what could have been if Shinji Higuchi was at the spfx director's helm. But that's only a fanboy wish. In the end, while certainly nowhere near the masterpiece that is Gamera 3, GMK is a slice above the rest of the Godzilla series and we have Kaneko to thank for it.

The DVD by Tristar unfortunately suffers from the same minimalist approach as most of their other Godzilla releases. The film presentation is superb (and it should be...the movie was only 3 years old at the time of it's release). The 5.1 surround is fantastic and sounds great. The English dub is horrendous as usual, so don't bother listening to it. However, be forewarned: the subtitles on this disc are taken from the English dub and NOT from the original Japanese dialog. Therefore, expect a great deal of "loose" translations that may confuse you or even give the wrong information. In other words, those often idiotic phrases you will see do not come from the original script. Believe me, the Japanese acting is great and does not suffer from bad dialog (I've seen this movie with proper subtitles).

Extras are non-existent, which is a real shame seeing as the R2 release by Toho is filled to the brim with behind the scenes footage and documentaries. Why Tristar doesn't just use those is completely beyond me.

In the end, this is a worthwhile release and if you don't care about how they made it (which is too bad seeing as how suitmation BTS are fantastic to watch...more interesting than a bunch of people sitting at a computer rendering effects) then this is for you. If you are a geek like me and willing to spend a little more money, get a region-free player and buy Toho's disc (I plan on doing that soon).