This is a beautiful film, enchanting and haunting.  I first saw this film in 1980 and although the images have stayed with me for 20 years the film still has the power to instil a strange sense of loss.  This revised director's cut version actually cuts 7 minutes from the original, as Peter Weir wanted to remove any petty romances.  The sound and picture quality have both been enhanced, although the green filters are a little too strong at times.  We are told at the outset that some of those who set out for the picnic are never to return and the film does not attempt to solve the mystery although various clues are shared with us.  The film could be a simple detective tale involving disappearing schoolgirls but the tone is set at the start of the film by Miranda (Anne Louise Lambert) who provides a voice over based on a poem by Edgar Allan Poe, "What we see and what we seem are but a dream, a dream within a dream"  The film concerns itself with the aftermath of the disappearance and the impact on those involved with the missing girls.  It shows how an apparently idyllic way of life is not what it first seems, how this false paradise is fragile and how it is shattered by the breakdown of established order. Hysteria and tensions all surface revealing the claustrophobic atmosphere of the affluent Victorian European way of life in an alien land, and exposing the suppressed passions that are the reality of life.  This theme is further expressed by the virginal white dresses the girls wear for the picnic, which seem out of place in this environment and represent the stifling restrictions placed on the young girls.  The layers of corset and dresses the girls have to wear also mirror the film's many layers. 
The cinematography is stunning being incredibly bright and sunny so that the film actively encourages you to feel the warmth of the sun.  The film seduces you with the sounds of the Australian bush and the beauty of the girls, so that you will more feel a sense of the horror, as one of the girls, Edith (Christine Schuler), does.  The flashback at the end of the film, poignantly coupled with the Adagio from Beethoven's 5th piano concerto (Emperor), leaves you with a sense of loss of youth and innocence.  Peter Weir later recreated this impression in the final scene of his film `Gallipoli'.  I am also reminded of the effect created by Jane Campion in her early film "Two Friends", where the film ends in the past when the friendship is at its closest, to make the loss of innocence feel more painful with the passing of time and ageing. 
The film is faithful to Joan Lindsay's novel, though dialogue is often replaced with visual impressions and unnecessary details are excluded to maintain the sense of mystery the author intended.  It seems a shame that the revised version has largely cut the scenes involving Irma (Karen Robson) and I personally prefer the original.  The film is beautifully shot with haunting music, well cast and acted and tightly directed, for me it is a masterpiece of its time, and still rates as one of my favourite films today.