My 10 year old son and myself were fortunate to end up in our local shopping mall one day with nothing to do while my wife was taking care of her own errands.. How more fortunate we were as we gazed at the marquee and both unanimously picked to see this wonderful movie..
Don't believe the negative reviews you have read here..this movie is everything the "critics" will despise, and it should be..My fondest memories of seeing the big screen with my parents was being lost in the escapism that a movie such as "League" portrays, whether for 2 hours or for 3..I haven't quite understood many of the reviewers on here who are trying to figure out why they didn't like this movie..who the heck cares?
My 10 year old son and my 2 year old son(who watched it for the first time this past weekend) were glued to the screen for its duration and me, well, I enjoyed it more the second time around.
It doesn't take a lot of sense to understand why or how this movie was made, so please don't over-analyze it..we have enough of this in the world today.. The premise is simple: literary fictional characters are called together for a common cause and the fate of the world lies at hand. The characters are actually believable and you feel like they were real at one time in history.. Sean Connery as Alan Quartermain was a pleasure as was the actor who played Dorian Grey(I am unsure of his name)..Combine these with the Invisible Man, Tom Sawyer, Mina Harker(who plays the part perfectly as a seductive vampiress), Captain Nemo, and Dr. Jekyll (and yes, you won't believe it when you see Mr. Hyde..) and you have one perfect team of heroes battling the Phantom, who is also shrouded in mystery..
This movie has something for all who view it: astounding special
effects, stellar acting, and most of all, characters that recall the days of my youth when I wanted to believe that heroes like this actually existed..
Forget the ones who are trying to compare this to an X-men movie, (which I also have developed much respect and liking for..)
let your son and daughter watch this with you and keep cheering for the good guys; they are still alive in these movies and our youthful imaginations..