What mindless fun! This is one of the best-awful movies I have seen in a long time! Its so bad, it made me laugh, and groan, constantly! But the best was yet to come! While walking out of the theater, I overheard a group of men loudly ripping the movie apart by mimicing some of the more stupider lines! I laughed so hard! It felt good! That's why the 5-stars. Intelligent people with a sense of humor will find this movie to be cathartic;  maybe for reasons the filmmakers never intended, but cathartic never-the-less!

Children will like it, too, because it's somewhat idealistic, gore free, and more importantly, has plenty of action without being overly mean, which is certainly a breath of fresh air in this day and age!

Why do I call "Stealth" a propaganda film? Because if the Pentagon didn't write it, or at least approve the script, I would truly be very surprised! The film has absolutely nothing to do with reality, but could impress the less enlightened as gospel truth. It's a combination of Disney and Ranger Rick: Be very careful, and don't harm a hair on a civilian's head. Collateral damage is bad, and to be avoided all costs! Even if it means disobeying orders, risking one's life, and a billion dollar-plus plane! OOOH!!! It felt like our three pilots were going to enter the seminary just after the movies was over! What a charming fantasy! At least one can hope there are pilots, flying the most deadliest aircraft on earth, who would risk all to save a bunch of exotic foreigners from being blown to bits.

We even have a naughty, and sentient, stealth plane that finally understands right from wrong, and is willing to make the ultimate sacrifice! How patriotic! Now we can literally be friends with weapons of mass destruction! There's a scary thought! In this film the term "Smart bombs" takes on a whole new meaning!

This kind of incredible nonsense is endless throughout! The acting was great, though. Anyone who can keep a straight face through this film is truly talented, or in a bad need of a pay check!