First off, since Amazon appears to have grouped the reviews for two different DVD editions of this movie together, the one I am reviewing here has the brown cover with a picture of a very angry Eastwood wielding two pistols. It also has "CLINT EASTWOOD COLLECTION" printed across the top.
Others here have reviewed this top-notch movie better than I could, so I'll just give my impressions of the quality of this release.

I don't know how many different DVD versions of this movie were ever released, but as far as I'm concerned, this is the best one, with remastered audio and video. The sound quality is simply superb--I have many DVD movies, and this one is by far the best, both in terms of audio and video quality. Considering it comes in the flimsier fold-out cardboard flap over plastic case, I was surprised at how good the quality of the actual disk is. The picture quality is simply stunning; I don't know how else to adequately describe it. It's the widescreen "letterbox" format, which gives you the entire theater screen including the left and right sides that fullscreen releases chop off in order to fill up the whole screen. Letterbox is the only way to go if you want to see the entire wide picture you get at the theater. Most of you already know this; I only mention it because I know there are still some who do not. This release is dual-layer format and is enhanced for widescreen TVs. The movie itself runs 2 hours and 15 minutes. Special features: Soundtrack remastered in Dolby Digital 5.1. 1976 Documentary "Eastwood In Action" (approx. 8 minutes). 1999 Documentary "Hell Hath No Fury: The Making Of The Outlaw Josey Wales" (approx. 30 minutes and a fascinating look behind the scenes including documentary footage from the making of the movie showing Eastwood in the act of directing). A very brief introduction to the movie itself by Clint Eastwood (approx. 1 minute). Subtitles in English, French, and Spanish. Languages in English and French. Production notes. Theatrical trailer. Scene Access.

Again, I cannot stress how good this edition looks and sounds. Even the darkest scenes are vivid and clear. Image throughout the film is extremely crisp. A very slight pause midway as the player switches layers, but that's normal with the Dual-Layer format, and it was hardly noticeable. The audio is amazing, with gunshots and explosions reverberating through my floorboards. Turned up through a simple decent stereo system, you will *feel* this movie. Whoever did the audio/video remastering did a fantastic job. The best I've ever seen. This would be worth it at twice the price. The only giveaway to the low price is the cardboard-flap-type case. You simply can't go wrong here.