Hey, I'm a Dream Theater fan and I can say the comment about Ann and Nancy playing two chord over simplistic songs is the most rediculous thing I've ever heard. I'd like to see this guy play Battle Of Evermore and Black Dog. By the way, Heart kicks Zep's butt on those songs. I've always wondered what Battle would sound like sung in tune... how nice it is. Anyway, I'm a musician and Alice In Chains, while excellent in musicianship, is simply no more difficult to play, nor is it any more complicated in song structure than Dog and Butterfly or Mistral Wind. This fellow should also note that Mike Inez came to AIC from Ozzy Osbourne's band. Not exactly alternative, or prog I would say, so the sellout statement further proves the musical ignorance of this person(who I have to admit is probably just trolling to see if future reviewers pick him a part... but, not all the people reading will know that and they deserve to see why his comments are utter nonsense.)
I'm only 27 so my Heart knowledge is backfill anything before thier self titled 1985 album. I didn't discover most of the older tunes until I had graduated from High School. I'm amazed that Ann sounds exactly the same after all these years. At 51 years old, I would say she is not just sounding great for her age, but sounding great for any age and I thought they both looked gorgeous.
But, that's not why people will buy this, nor why they will like it. At least 30 minutes of the DVD is just the two of them, no band, playing and sounding amazing. And I should note they aren't playing and sounding amazing as far as being women goes... they are playing and sounding as good as anyone. Period. 
A friend loaned me his copy. I wasn't aware that they had been on a tour, been recording an album, and that now one has been released. I am a bit dissapointed that Heaven and Break The Rock didn't make it on the new album, but the preview clips on thier website sound great and I'll definately be buying my first Heart album ever. I've had various songs on compilations but never an album so I have some catch up work to do.
Oh, and if you do like this DVD, get Toto's 25th anniversery DVD, Kansas' Device Voice Drum, and Journey's 2001 DVD. All of them are still sounding amazing. If you like Heart's heavy side, get Dream Theater's Metropolis Pt2 Live DVD... :)
Ok, done plugging. There are quite a few new bands I like, but I haven't seen any of the newer band's DVDs that match the quality in performance of these. I have to thank all these guys for continuing to push the definition of old to higher and higher numbers. It's proof I guess that you're only as old as you feel and act. :)