Well, after much exhaustive work and buying three different DVD's of this film at Amazon, four have been produced so far bye-the-way.  As a reviewer said earlier the ASIN: B00005N919 on Amazon as 'Basic Instinct (Collector's Edition - Unrated) (1992)' is the version with the deleted scenes that the Director was forced to cut from the theatrical release back in 1992.  I have added a couple of pictures of the copy (3rd and 4th customer pictures in the picture list by me) that I received from a seller under the product ASIN: B00005N919, of the DVD case front and back with notes added for explaination.  By-the-way, there is no main picture on Amazon for this particular version of the DVD, only customer pictures and this is defineately the version to buy.  This DVD did come with the 'Ice Pick' and is still called a Special Edition because of that Ice Pick (pen) included.  I also bought another copy with ASIN: B000E5N684 and the Amazon title of 'Basic Instinct - Director's Cut (Ultimate Edition) (1992)' and that has a Sharon Stone interview (recently) added to it and is the last DVD copy (non blu-Ray) to be made.  I watched this version also and because it says Director's Cut and Unrated on the lower bottom part of the DVD case, it does have the left out scenes that were deleted in the theatrical release also.  The other one I bought ASIN: B00005N91B also came with the Ice Pick, but it only say's Special Edition on the DVD, this does not include the cut scenes in the theatrical release, but is a Special Edition because of the Ice Pick (pen).  Another reviewer did talk about the extra scenes in the UNRATED versions and what they include, so I will not go into that, just see his review for that info.  I hope this helps clarify the many different releases of this DVD that I have found so far here at Amazon.

Also for you that do not know what an ASIN is, here you go:
All items in the Amazon catalog are identified by 10-digit ASINs (Amazon Standard Identification Numbers).  The ASIN search tool on their site is able to search for items by  ASIN. Amazon assigns these ASIN numbers, it helps them to ship the correct item.