Wow, Amazon opinions are really up and down with some passionate negative reviews.  Fine by me, but here's 11 reasons to love this film:

1) Style - this film is a 2hr swinging martini! Some here have criticized Soderberg's direction?  From color to camera to pacing, this film is extremely well directed and it does have a definite style but it works well and serves the tone of the piece (ie: it is not distracting)

2) Frank Sinatra - it's based on a previous film starring ol' blue eyes... reason enough

3) The cast - incredible of course and they all jell perfectly with obvious chemistry. It's true Julie Roberts has little screen time, as some have mentioned, but her scenes with Clooney are fantastic (classic 40's style)

4) The soundtrack - music by David Holmes is outstanding, original and fresh. If you appreciate music - you will notice this soundtrack as you view the film, it really drives and enhances the film. It's not often that a non-orchestral piece catches my attention or sticks in my head after viewing but this one did (similar in effect (not style) for me to 'Good Will Hunting' or 'Slingblade')

5) Screenplay - clever - I've mentioned the 40's banter already but the whole script is very original and tight (it's amazing how the whole ensemble gets a piece of the action)

6) Big Stars?  Clooney - I'm not the biggest fan (aside from O'Brother..) but, I love him in this. Pitt - I'm less of a fan, but think he's great here.  My point being, that it's not just the 'big cast' that makes this movie work for me.

7) The heist is well designed and fun. Some have said it's too incredible or unbelievable...  uh,  yes it certainly is - I think that's the point.  Comparing this heist or the movie in general to the remade Italian Job?  please - there is no comparison. This movie does not end with the villian buzzing his helicopter rotor across the hero's car, it ends with...

8) A touching ending at a water fountain (ripped off from the Right Stuff!) - Well sort of, but it really works and is followed by an even better ending back at Clooney's tuxedo-wearing prison which is very clever although not to some Amazon reviewer's tastes I guess...  It's like the difference between a beer and a martini.  We all like beer, but this movie is a Martini so you should enjoy it like one.

9) Carl Reiner is in this movie and so is Elliot Gould. And they are good and great.  Garcia is really good. Damon is fine but hopefully with more to do in the sequel.  Bernie Mac is king.

10) Vegas!  This movie (Soderberg) makes Vegas look and feel like we think Vegas is supposed to look and feel like...  It really doesn't of course - but in this movie, Vegas really shines.

11) The DVD commentary by Damon/Garcia/Pitt is fantastic. Better than the FOTR cast commentary even.

thanks, just my opinion

12) No character development..?!?  who is Matt Damon's dad ?!? What movie are you reviewers watching?  This is a big ensemble cast in a stylish heist film. It's a ride.  What were you expecting? Have you anaylzed the lyrics to "Fly Me to the Moon" for content or character development?  Don't bother - it's about joy and being in love (or making a lot of whooppee)