Or anything else Star Wars for that matter.

It's time to show George that he no longer rules the universe as he once did.  And the only way to do that is to hit him where he'll actually notice, his pocket book.  He obviously doesn't listen to anything or anyone else.

Why shouldn't you buy these Original Trilogy (OT) DVDs?

First, the movies won't be anamorphic.  To quote Bill Hunt of The Digital Bits web site, "Anamorphic enhancement is the widely accepted industry standard for the presentation of widescreen films on DVD".  Is it really that bad that the movies won't be anamorphic, well not really, but it's symptomatic of the reasons for George releasing these movies.  He's only doing it because he's feeling forced to do, but he's not going to be nice about it, so no anamorphic print.  Very lame.  And besides, that process really doesn't cost all that much to begin with.

Second, according to George these movies will be from the best source material available, baloney.  They are from the Laserdisc masters, which for the time, were great.  But compared to today's movies they are sub-par.  Lucasfilm says there are no longer any valid "source material" copies of the OT because he had them all destroyed when they release the "Special Edition" version.  Again baloney.  Many copies of the original movies do exist in private collections, film history archives and other places that he cannot destroy.  Anyone of these could be used to create an true cleaned up OT version.  I still have my copy of the Star Wars: The Definitive Collection release and it's an okay print, but with a little cleaning up it could be fantastic.

Third, he says he doesn't want to allocate the resources to the cleanup.  Fine.  There are any number of studios who have said they would get better copies of the prints (even the source for the LD prints would be fine) and clean them up and make them anamorphic for no charge.  They just want to be associated with the project.

Yes, they're his movies and he has the right to make changes (whether you agree or not with the changes) as he sees fit.  And while I don't like the changes he's made (especially in Star Wars which, in my opinion, were atrocious) I am willing to let the director do what he fells is best for his movies and support or not support these changes by purchasing or not purchasing the updated versions.  There will always be arguments about the validity of "Director's Cuts" (think Blade Runner and Brazil) but the simple answer is they are "Director's Cuts" and they can do what they want with "their" movies.  According to Lucas, the "Special Edition" version is the true vision that he had for the movies.  If that is truly the case George, why the waffling on the different OT versions.  Go with one and stick with it.  Period.  This so-called acquiescence to the fans to release the original movies has been downright insulting, condescending and not worthy of a studio as great as Lucasfilm is (or has been in the past).

And the final reason to not buy these movies is simple:  George says he is releasing them to, and I'm paraphrasing here, "appease the fans".  Bull@#$!  He's releasing them for one simple reason.  Money.  Think about it.  Every time something new for Star Wars has come out, he's released some version on DVD.  He's planning on releasing a super-duper box set of all the movies in a couple of years as well as the HD-DVD versions, what kind of teasers is he going to release between now and then.  He knows he can release anything with the words Star Wars on them and we'll buy them.

Well not anymore for this consumer.  I've given ol' George the last dime I ever will.  In fact, I'm boxing up my "Special Edition" version of the OT on DVD and sending them back to George with this note.  I have the Laserdisc editions and while dated in their look and feel, they are truly the "original trilogy".  I might even send back all three prequel DVDs as well just to prove the point.