After getting this DVD, I watched at least part of it almost every day for the next two months.  No lie.

While it is true that the cinementography is outstanding, what also keeps me coming back are the outstanding performances.  I almost wish that each band member had a camera dedicated to them, cause they're all spectacular.  Even the director, Jonathan Demme, laments the difficulty of balancing the members' screen time in the commentary.  They all look like they are having a blast, and at times it seems more like a big party on a stage than a concert.  Here's a capsule review of each:

David Byrne: The eccentric leader.  He appears slightly spaced out and in his own little world at times, but then he'll flash a glance at one of his mates and you'll realize that he knows exactly what he's doing.  There's a wonderful part during the bonus song "Big Business" where he walks over to each band member and stands transfixed while they play a "mini solo" for him -- he even bobs his head along with Bernie Worrell's keyboard riffs.  In addition, his clinical descriptions of how he conceived the show in the commentary are fascinating.

Tina Weymouth:  The sly bass player.  Tina doesn't have a whole lot of screen time to herself except when she sings "Genius of Love."  However, if you look for her in the background, you'll see some good stuff.  The "blimp suit" that she wears in the first half of the show rocks!  Tina's also quite an entertaining talker and contributes some funny moments to the commentary track.  She gleefully recounts a prank the crew pulled on David, and also has a great quote about making music: "Whether your arms are sore or your fingers are bleeding, it doesn't matter.  The end result is all that counts."

Chris Frantz:  The good-natured "teddy bear" behind the drum kit.  You can see him lip-synching along with many of the songs, and he'll belt out the occasional "alllright" into his mike.  It's funny to watch his hair become increasingly drenched in sweat as the show goes on, while the perpetual grin on his face remains.  Favorite commentary quote: "We thought we knew how to rock, and then these people [referring to the guest musicians] came along and...well, just look at them."

Jerry Harrison:  The most stoic member of the band, Jerry contributes some nice rhythm guitar licks and is very articulate during the commentary.  He briefly comes out of his shell during a "mini-solo" in the song Big Business, and it is quite amusing.

Bernie Worrell: Ex-Parliament keyboard wizard who doesn't get quite enough airtime to fully appreciate, but he's outstanding nonetheless.  He's an adept visual performer, and I enjoyed his call-and-response section with David in the song "Making Flippy Floppy."

Steve Scales: The happy-go-lucky percussion player who's always trying to fire up the crowd.  He has a great moment on "Take Me to the River" where he grabs the mic and starts trying to get everyone going.

Alex Weir: The EXTREMELY enthusiastic guitarist who's constantly bouncing around the stage.  He almost collides with David during "Once in a Lifetime" while David's doing his "man possessed" dance.

Lynn Mabry/Edna Holt: The two sultry backup singers.  They play off each other well, and have a great moment in "Slippery People" whey they mirror David's guitar strumming.