John Carpenter is, by far, one of the most dignified names in horror.  His name alone is enough to grab the attention of raving fanboys and make them expect some sort of extreme horror fest. And he always delivers...with a few exceptions among these few filmic endeavors lies the classic comedy gem Big Trouble in Little China.

Don't expect horror here, folks. Don't expect a movie full of matrix-like martial arts, straight forward Hollywood style, or fantastic special effects. That, however, is a good thing. DO expect a movie that is all fun and really nonsensical. John Carpenter does not deliver horror here, he serves up a much more enticing work of art: The Martial Art/Comedy/Action/Adventure

The story follows Jack Burton, a trucker with a penchant for cracking wise even in the most perilous of situations.  You see it seems Jack, upon following a debt owed to him by an old friend from Chinatown, has just fallen between a cataclysmic battle between an ancient Mandarin sorcerer (equipped with the powerful two large groups of goons and the mystical 3 storms) and a clan of good-doers with the intention of thwarting his ancient evil.  This is were it gets sticky, people are introduced to the plot ....  Does it make sense that so and so is introduced here and he/she just pop in there? No, but don't try to make sense of it just have fun.

Jack, who loses his truck amidst the initial encounter between the good guys and the bad guys, sets out to recover it and get his money. To do so he must help his friend recover his girlfriend who is to become the Mandarin sorcerer's bride.  Along the way he conveniently falls in love with the girl who the ancient sorcerer Lo-Pan chooses as a second bride.

Witty one-liners, attitude, cheesy but fun effects, and lots of fun ensue. Folks, I love John Carpenter. His horror films revolutionized the industry and made me lose lots of sleep, but this is not his typical film. Carpenter knew this was very wide material and he just had fun with it and fun is what you get from this movie. And lots of it. This is the type of movie that finds an audience and they stick with it but everyone else kind of wonders about their sanity. In short, a cult film through and through.

Technically this dvd is a fun little package. The sound is a nice dolby digital 4.1 or a dts track depending on what you choose/have.  Its nice, nothing flashy but at least they don't lie to you and tell you it has a higher grade sound.  There are two discs, the first containing the movie and commentary.  The commentary is fun as [heck] and the movie is such as well.  The second disk features include trailers, tv spots, deleted scenes, alternate ending, a cheesy video featuring John Carpenter (my favorite part), and other fun bits.  A nice little package for a well deserving uproarious chop socky flick.