Threads depicts the aftermath of a country that has been laid to waste by atomic bombs. This is not meant for entertainment. The stark realities shown in the film are not ones you'll soon forget. It shows that in mere seconds how fast the world can change. You would not even believe that something like this could happen until you recall your grade school lessons of atoms and Eisenstein and what America did to two cities in Japan. It is not the film that is scary, it's the fact that these weapons exist and could very well alter the world as we know it.

In Threads, you needn't wonder what life would be like if somebody decided to blowup your homeland. The movie itself covered every possible horror. Explosions, fallout, radiation is all but a fraction of the day to day trials people endure after the bombs are dropped. Civilization does not just stand back up, brush the dust off and rebuild itself. Hunger eats away at the stomachs of billions of people. With all the farm crops poisoned from the multiple effects of the bombs, what little food that remains people will kill for. The remaining government sits by as this happens, using small rations as reward for able workers, hoping that they will kill themselves off quickly so that there will be less mouths to feed. With no electricity to power even the simplest heath care facility, doctors can do very little to help save lives. The majority of the population dies at such an alarming rate that an attempt to bury them all would be futile and since there is hardly any fuel reserve, burning them would be too costly. So the streets are soon laden with corpses and an outbreak of Cholera and other diseases run rampant, significantly killing the people still alive. When crops finally manage to grow, pesticides are impossible to obtain, compromising the safety of food consumption. Finally, with a huge hole blown up in the atmosphere, everyone under the sun will be exposed to cancerous UV rays. And as if this new world was not bleak enough, we eventually learn that many years down the line, even small, harmless exposures to radiation will cause women to give birth to deformed stillborns. This leaves one to question the survivability of humanity as a whole.

When the credits start to roll you'll be relieved knowing that these bombs mostly stay underground and you'll thank God it was only a movie you just watched. But it is not the kind of horrible movie you can just say, "It was only a movie" since weapons of this magnitude do indeed exist and this could very well be our future if somebody decides to activate them.

Why this DVD has not made it to the United States is beyond me. I guess they figured we already had our version of a nuclear war movie with "The Day After," but I like Threads better since it focused more on the aftermath of a nuclear war rather than a group of characters. You can learn from this film. It is not as story based as "The Day After." It concentrates more on the events that would follow after an atomic bomb has dropped. It does follow the life of one particular character and her offspring, just to show you how far the effects of such a disaster can reach into the future of our childrens' children.

Thankfully the film can be viewed for free on the internet, but I would really love to own the DVD here in the States for quality purposes.