Oh no!  Why did I ever rent this chick flick?  I mean, it was a pretty good movie over all, but now I remember WHY I don't like chick movies (books, etc.).  These types of media are designed to be sappy in a way that hopefully makes you cry and laugh (or at least smile) and want to hug your best friend.  And, yes, this movie was a success.

The Sisterhood starts with a pretty original idea; an idea that one could totally believe teenagers might think of (if one can get past the crazy notion that somehow those pants actually fit all four girls.)  Teen girls and clothes are like peanut butter and jelly, after all.

But, the originality slacks off to 50% after that.

What isn't original:
...the dying little kid story (sorry, this is just done way too often)
...the fact that the shy girl finds romance and her voice over the summer
...the fact that the beautiful blonde is the overbearing, successful, leader type that always gets what she wants.

What is original:
...not all the girls have happy endings
...the movie attempts to show that teenagers sometimes don't understand what they are feeling or know what they are doing and why (especially when it comes to two subjects, parents and sex) and that
...they are prone to act rashly and in ways that may come back to hurt them.

I think the Greek rivalry in Lena's family deserved more story time and therefore was abrupt in its resolution.  I found Carmen's story very touching and real and I cried quite a bit with her as she tried to acknowledge and deal with her hurt and anger.

All the characters were very different from each other (maybe a bit too different) and they were flawed (which made them more believable.)  However, they were definitely stereo-type characters (the outgoing, sexy, arrogant blonde; the shy, quiet, modest brunette; the rebel with wild hair and piercing who really isn't as `harsh' as you think she is; and the slightly overweight girl who is "put upon" by others and has to learn to stand up for herself.)

The dialog was aimed more at preteens and teenagers than grown women and I really can't see a man enjoying this film.

The shots in Greece were beautiful and almost worth watching the movie just to see.  The beaches are beautiful, the water is inviting, and the contrast of the white, sharp-angled Greek buildings to the surrounding land and sea is awe-inspiring no matter how many times you see it.

The Sisterhood showed that teens are better off developing good relationships and open communication with friends AND with their parents.  This, and the fact that the one "sexual encounter" was handled in a way to show that teen sex is more complicated than most teen movies would have us to believe (although the resolution to that fell completely flat and unbelievable in this house), give this movie a depth and realism that is much more than one usually finds in anything "chick" or "teen."  For that reason, it is a good movie to watch with your teen daughter and then talk about.

For the fact that this film shows romance as an essential (or normal or expected) element of teen life and that a physical expression of s*xual desires while still in high school is normal and acceptable, and that in the end, the one-night-stand that cost Bridget her v*rginity only caused a couple of days of a sadness, this movie is not recommended for young teens who have not made a personal commitment to purity.

All that being said, some of the questions this movie asks are important questions and good discussion starters.  This movie could be a good conversation starter if you watch it with your daughter and then spend some time together afterwards, perhaps over some pie or ice cream, and talk.