I first had it on video, and a few years ago bought it on DVD because I liked the stories. BUT my big (and it is BIG) complaint was I couldn't understand much of the language.  The cockney, Welsh, etc. was so broad and so very fast, I missed most of the conversation.  We do have a very different sounding language unless the British characters speak more slowly and more distinctly which they do not so in very much of this series, therefore I missed most of the conversation, though I pretty much understood what was going on. I'm sorry subtitles weren't added as they are in most American films these days. Some British films don't need subtitles as the characters speak clearly and Americans can understand. Example: Helen Mirren in "The Queen" but in her series "Prime Suspect" most of the characters were impossible to understand, except for her and a couple of others.

The ending disappointed me.  I waited for such a long time for Charley and Louisa to finally wed, and then Charley was written off.  As for Louisa's daughter, she had a very thin voice, and though she was a pretty good actress, doubt she could have become a professional singer.

But there were so many good stories. The one I didn't care for, was the one with Star and his ex wife, but for the most part the stories were excellent and lots of fun, and I've watched it many times. Especially liked the way the clothes changed, and other modern conveniences came about in the hotel and the kitchen as the years went by.

I would have liked to see more cooking by Louisa going from house to house, because she pretty much stopped after she left her job, and opened a hotel, but now and then she did it again.  Mostly her part was dealing with people in the hotel.

Thought all the main characters were well done, and fit in perfectly with the Bentinck. One of my favorite chapters was when the newspapers tried to catch Louisa's hotel in some bad publicity, but it backfired when the Prince's picture was spotted on the wall of Louisa's office!  Another good chapter was when Charley got locked into a court trial over breaking an engagement to a dancer.  Of course he was never really engaged to the dancer, and the dancer lost the trial.

Anyway, except for the language problem I enjoyed the series, though my husband didn't watch it as he couldn't understand the language.