Oh that's right, I said it.
So now you're probably thinking,
"As good as Suicide Club?? No way!"
Yes way.
In fact it might even be better.
(If you can believe that).
To say the least, this movie was excellent!!
Positively Excellent!!!
The best Dimension Extreme entry thus far!!
I can't spell or pronounce the directors name,
but I'll be definitely be looking for his work in the future.

From begining to end this movie grips your attention like a boa-constrictor on laxatives.
This is a Thai movie so there is subtitles but.....
there is an English audio track as well,
for those who don't want to read their movies.
Either way the story was tense,
the cinematography was nothing short of magnificent,
the soundtrack genuinely added to the experience,
the characters were quirky yet believable,
and none of the depravities onscreen were even remotely pointless.
(ranging from animal cruelty to the consumption of something that's better left unsaid)
Reminiscent of the Georgian film 13 Tzameti.
or the Laymon novel "In the Dark".
This film tells the the tale of a down-on-his-luck salesman named (Chad or Chit),
who one miserable day receives a mysterious phone call.
A caller who seems to know all about Chad.
The caller tells him 1 million dollars(or 100 million depending on whether you watched it dubbed or with subtitles)can be his,
all he has to do is play a game,
13 games to be precise.
And with each success more money will be transfered to Chad's bank account.
But what starts off as silly tasks,
soon spirals into utter madness,
as Chad has to compromise his morals, his safety, his health
and the very foundation of his being
for money,
for what Chad believes will solve all his problems.
And I think that's the point of the film,
"What are you willing to do for money?"
"What are you willing to compromise for it?"
"How much does money mean to you?"
There's also an ironic statement about entertainment,
and what people find entertaining.
For me, it's this movie.

This flick is being marketed as a thriller,
(aka intelligent horror)
but make no mistake,
the only people who are gonna buy this flick are horror fans.
Don't believe me?
Just look at the cover.

To sum it up,
this flick is intelligent and horific,
and you need to own it.

MORAL OF THE STORY:
BUY THIS MOVIE TODAY!!!!!!!!