This movie is about one of the most important battles in Chinese history immortalized in the famous novel "The Romance of the Three Kingdoms".  General Cao Cao of Northern China decides to unify China by conquering the southern lands held by two warlords, Liu Bei and Sun Quan.  General Cao Cao sends the imperial navy fleet down the Yangtze River and marches his enormous army south to overwhelm all opposition.  The civilian population flees in terror.  The warlords join forces to repel General Cao's forces backed by the reigning Han Emperor.  The film is a thinking man's movie.  It is played out as if it were an elaborate chess game.  Takeshi Kaneshiro delivers a fine portrayal of Zhuge Liang, the brilliant military strategist, as he matches wits with the shrewd, ambitious General Cao Cao (played by Zhang Feng Yi).  Each man is trying to second guess the other's military strategy.  General Zhou (played by the agile martial artist, Tony Leung) and Zhuge Liang collaborate to counter General Cao Cao's forces.

Move over, Mr. Spielberg, this film displays brilliant direction under the leadership of John Woo.  This period picture with its cast of thousands upon thousands was very expensive to make.  It required building full scale replicas of wooden warships that will actually float and can be steered in water.  It required a Naval Unit Director, Patrick Leung, to maneuver the ships in formation.  They also had to film ships being set on fire.

As if the great naval battle wasn't enough for one movie, there were the land battles to be filmed and stunt work with cavalry, warriors fighting with ancient weapons (Action Unit Director, Corey Yuen), and large explosives.  The Tortoise Formation is fully reenacted so that the audience learns why it is such a deadly entrapment.  No gore.  The camera man politely takes us away from decapitations and other gruesome sights.  There is some blood but only to let the audience know that, yes, the blade did make contact with its target.

There were two outstanding directors of photography, Lu Yue and Zhang Li, to create the extraordinary range of cinematography displayed throughout this great film.  The aerial shots are spectacular!  John Woo used cloud formations and the overcast sun in the tradition of Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece "RAN" to develop the Three Kingdoms storyline.  There are some memorable special visual effects, such as the face of a tiger blending into the face of General Cao Cao to depict his cunning.  Another visual effect shows the patterns on the back of a tortoise shell, then the actual military formation patterned after it, the Tortoise Formation.

Excellent story telling in a historical setting with fully developed characters.

Beautiful music is provided by Taro Iwashiro.
Special features include "Making Red Cliff", a documentary of the unusual challenges in making this film, including the shipbuilding operation and action sequences.