Mar's Attacks is a comedy/Sci-Fi/action adventure film with a multi-talented star cast in a world where Jack Nicholson is the president of the United States.  The country lets down its guard to accept the Martian Ambassador only to be surprisingly attacked by the Martians on national television.

If that seemed rather foolish, then it should be no surprise to you that the Martians offer to publicly apologize to the United States in front of Congress, and as you can probably predict, another surprise attack wipes out the Congress of the United States.  I never stopped being shocked at the ways the Martians treated their captives or at seeing the star cast die at the hands of the Martians.

It was bad enough to see the United States with their pants down to the attacks.  Then the President of France calls the President of the United States bragging that he had negotiated a Martian peace treaty.  Of course the President of the United States, at this point in time, began to suspect the Martians of being nothing less than obliterators of the human race and tried to warn the French President however it was too late.

The final attempt to make peace with the Martians comes when they bust into the White House to greet the President and what is left of his staff.  I will let you watch the movie to see what happens in this scene.

The hero of this movie is bound in a quiet teenage male named Richie (Lukas Haas) who strives to obtain his parents' acceptance after the Martians murdered his brother.  Richie is especially interested in saving his grandmother, who helps him to save the world against the Martians.

This movie, for me, is like several of Tim Burton's other films in that the animated actors in this film seemed to find their way into my heart.  No wonder human kind can be so trusting and believing.  I give this movie three stars because I felt the repetition of the gullible nature of humans really should have sank in after the first two times.  I found the movie slightly humorous and I will watch it again...sometime in the future.