Paul Verhoeven's latest thriller, Hallow Man delivers heart-stopping action, great thrills, and terrific special effects scenes losely tied together by poor transition scenes.  The movie focusses on a genius played by Kevin Bacon.  It seems the government wants to create a serum that can turn people invisible.  Headed by Bacon, a group of scientists, including the ever beautiful Elizabeth Shue, work in a secret government underground research facility-how many times in movies are secret government research facilities underground anyway? Uncle Sam has some pretty poor real estate brokers.  Anyway, these scientists have been able to make animals invisible-a very impressive scene includes a gorrilla becoming visible litterally from the inside out.  The scientists are positive that the serum is ready for humans, but Bacon does not want to just hand it over to the government just yet.  The scientists use the serum on Bacon, and after yet another impressive scene, he becomes invisible.  The only problem, the antidote does not seem to work on humans.  Bacon remains invisible for days and his dark side emerges.  It seems that hollywood must pump out an invisible man movie every now and then, if for no other reason than to brag about the latest special effects.  The last invisible man movie-John Carpenter's Memoirs of an Invisible Man had stunning special effects for its day.  Now its time to update the effects with the latest in digital abilities.  And this movie delivers these effects brilliantly.  There are a number of things that the invisible man is covered with in this movie that are pretty neat to watch.  This movie also touches on something that some invisilbe man movies do not-how tempting would it be to do wrong if you were invisible?  Invisibility is the perfect symbol for absolute immunity-no matter what you do, you cannot be caught.  This tradition stretches back thousands of years to ancient Greece when Plato spoke of the myth of Gynges.  In short, a poor shephard finds a ring inside a hollowed bronze statue of a horse.  He discovers that this ring can make him invisible.  To make a long story short, he turns evil and manages to-have an affair with the queen, kill the king, marry the queen and declare himself the new ruler.  This movie touches on that thought.  Without going into detail, let's just say that Bacon gets into some mischeif, and some all out wrongdoing, durring his days of invisibility.  All in all, it seems as though this movie has everything going for it-a good cast, a great director, great special effects, and an interesting idea.  The problem is that this interesting idea for a story does not mature itself into a great movie. While the characters seem both real and believable, I have trouble swallowing Bacon's decent into hell.  I believe that being invisible would deffinitely have it's temptations.  But Bacon goes from an arrogant, yet light-hearted genius to a full blown physco in only a few days time.  Of course, this transformation is sped up by a revelation of Bacon's about Elizabeth Shue's character.  I'm not going to say what but here's a hint-they used to be an item, he still wants her, but she's moved on.  I'll buy that this would fuel his decent, but it still feels too rushed.  Perhaps this shows a disadvantage to Bacon's invisibility-he goes through this terribile transformation of the soul, but we the audience are unable to wittness it.  Once invisible, the only performance of Bacon's the audience gets is a voice and the occasional invisible effect-Bacon covered in blood, steam, water, and fire.  The production team obviously spent a long time planning the invisible effects shots, they should have spent even more time planning on slowing and showing Bacon's decent and making it more blievable.  Verhoeven is usually very good at showing decents into madness and the darkness of the human soul,they are always dominant issues in his movies, but his movies focus on the actors' facial reations to situations, but with Bacon being invisible, Verhoeven cannot rely on this technique.  All in all this was a good movie. When all the aspects of the movie are averaged, the movie earns a repsectable B, maybe even a B+.  A for effects, B for acting, C for plot, A for surprises.  But, despite what hollywood might say to the contrary with big block buster special effects movies, special effects don't make a great movie, just great eye candy.  A great plot, a great script, and great acting make a great movie.  Godzilla, though it had great effects, sucked because the plot was weak.  Independence Day rocked, not because the effects were breathtaking, but because the plot did not isult the audience's intelligence while showing off alien attack scenes.  My personal favorite movie of all time, Dragonheart, had terrific effects which complemented, not overshadowed, the plot-which was an excellent plot and I highly recommend Dragonheart to all who read this.  If you like thrillers, sci-fi movies, or special effects movies, this is a good one for you.  It has it's moments, but many of these focus too heavily on special effects.  But this movie does deliver some great thrills and surprises and is worth the $19.95 or whatever the studio decides to charge.