Loved the first film.  Why does this one fail?  First, I don't have the video game or boxer shorts or bedsheets with the predator on them.  I mean, it's a cool creature.  But a cool creature in a dumb movie is still a cool  creature in a dumb movie.
Danny Glover?  C'mon.  He's no Arnold.  Are  they going to have Pauly Shore fight the Predator in the next installment?  His character is written as one the Oprah Nation would dub a 'rageaholic'.  He is irrational-says one thing, does the opposite, gets mad @ people  without having a real reason, and basically does his best to become Dirty  Harry.  He ain't Clint Eastwood, either.  He gives Bill Paxton a speech  about being a team player, yet every chance he gets, Glover goes 'off'.  
Maria Conchita Alonso's accent or maybe audio make it hard to  distinguish what she says.  Paxton-cardboard cop.  Stock player as Glover's  friend is charismatic as wilted lettuce and script impedes any real acting,  anyway.  When he dies, it's just the 'latino guy' who dies because you  never get the sense he was a person in this film unlike the first film with  its characters.  
Opening gunbattle?  Ridiculous.  I grew up in LA and  saw live coverage of LAPD's gunbattle with SLA.  Since then, the LAPD has a  model seige unit, with modern procedures.  The movie cops fight like they  were drunken cowboys instead of professionals trained in the art of urban  warfare.  Also-you notice something?  NO airsupport.  The LAPD has plenty  of air support and snipers, but you don't see these @ start because that  wouldn't let Glover show his 'bad boy cred' by shooting it out.  I  mean-C'MON.  IN LA, in certain parts, you constantly hear police choppers  overhead and these choppers deposit Gary Busey's technicians, but they  can't fly over and drop teargas or use snipers-which LAPD have in  abundance?  I mean, it IS a movie, but give us some credit.
The  creature's face looks cartoony in this one.  Also, why would the creature,  so-called great hunter, not notice Glover in car following?  THIS is a  great hunter?  The gangland subplot?  Flat.  Glover?  Toe to Toe with the  beast that beat Arnold like a Red-headed stepchild?
I could swallow all  the implausibility, the plot holes, the overwritten characters (glover),  the underwritten characters(the dead latino cop)-but that would take more  beer than I can possibly drink and more faith than is available in the  world's largest cathedral.
A sequel's sequel.  A waste of time.  The  predator from the first film is turning over in his grave.