I ran across this wonderful little Russell Crowe movie shortly after seeing him in the great "Gladiator." I was in Blockbuster, locating movies for my own Crowe film festival and the cover caught my eye before I realized he was even in it. So back went the wonderful "The Insider" (filmed partially in my hometown) for another day.
I am so glad I did because "Mystery Alaska" was such a surprising discovery that I'm constantly suggesting it to friends and family, particularly to see Crowe in a role quite unlike his more famous Bud White, Maximus, Jeffrey Wigand and John Nash. Once again, the talented Aussie reveals his wide range, and the fact that he is a true actor and not simply a movie star.
This time he is not the savior of Rome, or courageous whistleblower, or multi-faceted Fifties cop, but John Biebe (Bee-be), sheriff in a tiny Alaskan town where hockey is as much a religion as college basketball is in Kentucky! For thirteen years he has been on the Mystery hockey team and played in the "Saturday game" -- made up of townsmen -- but as with many athletes, although in his thirties, he is replaced by a younger, up and rising player. On top of that blow is the return of Hank Azaria as sleazy hometown boy who got away, became a writer, and returns with a publicity stunt to bring the New York Rangers to Mystery to play the local team. (Azaria had written a Sports Illustrated article on the Mystery team, and that attracted attention). Azaria dated Crowe's wife (Mary McCormick)in high school, and Biebe's jealousy surfaces. So not only does Biebe have to accept his new role on the team, but his feelings towards his wife's old boyfriend, as well as other little incidents going on within their small town.
As he's done with other characters, Crowe gives Biebe several layers so that we see a man at a crossroads in his life. In fact, it's watching scenes with Crowe that make this movie as beautiful as the scenery! The man can express more with his facial features than most so-called actors can with a page of words: whether a smile, the glow of love in his eyes, his jealousy, his hurt, the permanent loss of a good friend. In one scene, when you see the tears and how red his eyes are, then hear the emotion in his voice, you feel his pain as well. But let's face it ladies, you can't help watching one locker room scene several times to *clears throat* study Crowe's physical talents! *bg* (Okay, he has great arms. LOL)
Seriously, the movie is a small charmer, from Crowe and Maury Chaykin (of "The Insider"), to the Canadian views portraying Alaska, to some rather humorous lines ("Women don't like to be referred to as fat mammals...") John Biebe has become one of my top three Russell Crowe characters, even more than Maximus and Bud. After seeing this movie, he may become one of yours too. I regret the DVD doesn't contain more special features but I can deal with it. Definitely pick this one up for your Crowe collection!