This is what a movie version of a TV show should be. As the title suggests, it's bigger in both scope and impact, and uncensored. There are  no swear words bleeped out in this film, and few punches pulled! Much has  been made about the amount of bad language in the film, and true, there is  a lot. But it is entirely forgivable when it's done with such panache and  sense of purpose. This is not the mindless swearing that you get in so many  films these days. "South Park: Bigger , Longer &amp; Uncut"  ultimately makes a very forceful defence of freedom of speech, and does it  in a visually graphic way that maybe only a cartoon could get away with.  It's also a very funny film in the bargain, containing some truly hilarious  scenes, and takes satirical swipes at a wide variety of targets along the  way.
Some fans of the TV show may be surprised that the movie is done as  a musical, but it works well in that format, sending up West Side Story and  Les Miserables along the way. The songs, written by Trey Parker, are all  good, the outstanding ones being Terence and Philip's  "Uncle*****", and "What Would Brian Boitano Do?", both  very catchy numbers that stick in the memory after a couple of listens.  Also worth noting are "Blame Canada" and an extended version of  Cartman's greatest hit, "Kyle's Mom's a Bitch".
The animation  is mostly done in the usual basic 'flat' style that we've come to know and  love, the exception being the early scenes in hell, on which the animators  have gone to town to make them visually impressive. When I saw the movie in  a theatre, it was almost impossible to catch all the dialogue, as it comes  at you so thick and fast, especially during some of the songs. One  advantage of owning it on DVD is that you can put the subtitles on, thus  ensuring that you don't miss any of the jokes contained in this gem of a  movie. Highly recommended, not only to South Park fans, but to anyone who  is broadminded and enjoys a good comedy that also has something worthwhile  to say.