I know I'm going against just about everyone else who's written their opinions here (excluding that Amazon.com person), but...I found this film shamelessly tactless! Just because a movie can make you cry DOESN'T make it brilliant! I don't know where my unhapiness began with this film, but somewhere early on; very early on.
Was it the herky-jerky camera movements(practically motion sickness inducing), attempting to convey a feeling of "real life" that made me dislike the film so? Was it the product placements (Starbuck's, Pizza Hut)that made the film, at times, seem like a VERY LONG commercial? Or was it that the film portrays people with mental disorders as being cute, quaint and funny? Or was it the annoying way "Sam's" daughter was so loveable and mature in dealing with her father's illness? It's so hard for me to tell, really, where my dislike for this film begins. 
But on a lighter note, I think Sean Penn is perhaps one of the very few great actors of the American cinema working today. I've liked almost (forget "Shanghai" and "Angels")everything I've seen him in, and he really puts his heart into this role. Unfortunately, he can't save himself from this saccharine mess. Michelle Pfeiffer almost rises above television-type melodrama, but the "tough girl turns soft" thing she does is tired, tired, tired. (I DO like the cover version by Aimee Mann and Michael Penn of "Two Of Us," by the way, but that doesn't really save the movie for me.)
Some genius, perhaps the music director of the film, proposed the EXTREMELY risky idea of having popular artists cover Beatles' songs! How ingenious! Is it not common knowledge that just about anyone with ears likes the Beatles? I think that that idea alone completely lacks originality, and almost entirely sums up how I feel about this film.
Please don't think me "cold-hearted" or malicious, because I don't think I am. Some of you should pop "The Bicycle Thief" or "Ponette"(for example)into your VCR/DVD player to get a taste of how to artfully and realistically portray sentimentality and pain, while portraying the thoughts and actions of children.  
I certainly am not the only person reading this right now who feels his emotions needs to be earned by the filmmaker, am I? This simply feels like a very well done made for tv movie of the week (or is that "movie FOR the weak"?). Regardless, I expected more from my movie-going experience. What was I thinking?