What a wonderful movie! In the same tradition as Dances With Wolves and Braveheart, this historical epic really showed me a world of amazing bravery and a beautiful culture that has found itself dying out.
The story is a classic hero's journey of a man haunted by deeds of his past, who finds unexpected redemption through his involvement with a people whom he at first sets out to destroy. Nathan Algren leaves behind his nightmares of his time spent in the American west to take a position in Japan, training the new Imperial Army to fight the ancient samurai who are rebelling against the government's efforts to modernize. Taken prisoner by the samurai leader, Katsumoto, he develops a bond with the great warrior and a respect and love for both the Japanese people and the samurai way of life. Adopting their ways as his own, eventually he finds a way to forgive himself for the atrocities he'd committed in his past and to find the honor he feels he doesn't deserve.
The settings in the movie are beautiful, depicting a bucolic and serene Japanese countryside steeped in mystery and tradition. Yet underneath it all lies the teeming violence inherent in the samurai way of life. Never for once are we allowed to forget that these men are trained warriors. Even in a moment of fun and celebration they are called upon to defend their people against cloaked assassins. 
I admit that the "Tom Cruise" factor was a bit of a distraction for me. I was never quite able to forget that it was Tom Cruise on the screen, and perhaps if the movie had starred an actor with a lesser well-known resume, I might have been able to lose myself more in the mind of the hero. Still, Mr. Cruise did a wonderful job of showing the inner demons of Nathan Algren and the subsequent transformation that took him from a disillusioned Civil War hero to an honorary samurai warrior willing to lay down his life for a people and a way of life not his own but still worth saving.
I also loved Ken Watanabe, who demonstrated the quiet strength, wisdom and bravery that would have made his character, Katsumoto, a legend among both samurai and the Japanese people.
The only complaint I have is that I would have loved to see the relationship between Nathan and his caretaker, the beautiful Koyuki as Taka, developed. As it was, the love that grew between these two was shown in long gazes and even, eventually, an almost chaste kiss and a few lingering touches. Perhaps it is simply the romantic in me that would have loved to have seen more.
For a great story, this movie really fits the bill. Action, intrigue, a tortured hero and a subtle love story - between an American and the samurai culture - are all blended together to make for a wonderful experience.