This has to be one of the most disappointing films I have ever seen. So, if you're expecting the film to resemble Alexandre Dumas' The Three Musketeers, the classic novel on which the movie is based, you will be sadly mistaken. (Dumas, on the other hand, must be turning in his grave.) The opening credits should have been a clue for what was to come because instead of being pulled into the film I felt as though I were being lulled to sleep. I don't know what the director or editor was thinking by flashing pictures on the screen during the opening credits because for a moment there I thought I was watching a slide show.

The script itself was far from intriguing because it droned on much like the monotone delivery of leading actor Justin Chambers. Worse still, because Chambers didn't have a French accent he couldn't even pronounce his own character's name, D'Artagnan, correctly. So, the authenticity of the movie was immediately questioned because of this glaring oversight. (Chambers began his career as a model. Surely he could have invested some of his money on a vocal coach.)

Speaking of unconvincing-the fight scenes were highly forgettable not only because of the choreography, but because of the directing. The sequences felt so rushed that the audience barely had enough time to absorb the choreography. In addition, a few of the stunts reminded me of the gravity defying feats often seen on episodes of Xena: Warrior Princess. The most hilarious spectacle, however, had to be the final fight scene-a laughable duel on teetering ladders. I thought this was supposed to be a period piece, not a fantasy movie.

The only thing that made the film tolerable was the convincing 17th century atmosphere that was created by the constant use of torch lighting, the beautiful wardrobe collection, and the sets. Other than that, the screenplay was bland, the leading actor was unexciting, and the fight scenes were unsatisfying. (I still can't believe it was released on DVD. Can anyone say, "Straight to video"?)