Without a doubt,Planet of the Apes is the best movie in the history of the world!  
Two nights ago, I was comfortably ensconced in my great-grandfather's smoking chair, playing whist with a fellow diplomat, when my attention was diverted by the mesmerizing grunts and groans emanating from my big screen television set.  Initially, I vainly endeavored to ignore the strange sounds that were now pervading through my opulent, spacious home, but this effort was an exercise in utter futility; for my subsequent thoughts and actions were arrested by those immortal words that shall forever inspire me to fight bigotry and xenophobia--wherever it may be found: "Get your stinking paws off of me you d--- dirty Ape!" 
Upon hearing those stirring words, I rushed to the living room where my servants were paying rapt, almost worshipful, attention to the half-naked man rushing across the television screen in his heroic effort to evade his gorilla captors! Truly, One cannot faithfully put into words the emotions that were evoked within me at various times throughout the epic when Heston, yet again, outsmarted the Bolshevik apes who were singled-minded in their sick pursuit to carve out portions of his brain! (They took communist 'brainwashing' to a new extreme!)
But, Heston would not be so easily duped by the hairy devils' overtures of liberty, equality, and fraternity.  (He knew that they really wanted to kill him since he would not consent to their brainwashing techniques) Time and time again, the man who played Moses expressed his fervent ambition that the apes should "let him go" into the desert to live in peace ,away from the idolatry and the lewdness that pervaded the corrupt Ape-man civilization! 
Drawing, if not downright stealing, from "The Ten Commandments", the director leads the viewer through a series of escapades reminiscent of DeMille's most famous picture. For instance, at the beginning of the film, we see a bored Heston, intent on only one thing, making romance with the sole female from earth, and much like Prince Moses in Demille's film, he was a military man of sorts, as evidenced by the fact that he was an Astronaut.  (Certainly he involved himself in a Military exercise when he attempted to execute brilliant escape and evasion maneuvers in the scintillating scene when the ape-people trampled his cohorts down with their horses).
The parallels do not end there!  When Heston refuses to quote the 'scriptures' of the gorilla's pagan religion in a dramatic court scene, one is reminded of Moses' staunch refusal to obey  celebrated pagan deities of the Egyptian court.  And, can anyone reasonably deny that the death and destruction that Heston wrought on the gorilla community in his attempt to evade their evil grasps is nothing more than an re-enactment of the the many curses and plagues that were visited upon the ancient Egyptians by Moses for refusing to let Heston and his people go?  And much like the exodus from Egypt, as the Hebrews left their former slavemasters loaded to the hilt with gold and riches, Heston is no less burdened with treasures.  (As the keen viewer will recall, Heston's "exodus" from the pagan gorilla village was blessed with the possession of many rifles, a horse, and a beautiful, if not "brainwashed", sidekick).
Nevertheless, despite the blatantly obvious "theft" of ideas from pictures past, this is a great movie!  It is full of action , drama, beauty, and suspense.  Its ultimate appeal,however, lies in its latent symbolism, the issues it endeavors to struggle with: bolshevism, paganism, and judaism.
This is a fantastic film.  I highly recommend it!