Peter Weir's "The Last Wave" is perhaps best thought of as two films. One is a smartly made, imaginative horror thriller, so tightly controlled that it is likely to put your stomach in knots for its entire 100 plus minutes. The other is a rather hazy, sentimental look at aboriginal culture, with a vaporous dreaminess that sympathetically can be viewed as "mysterious," but more often seems alternately obtuse and pretentious.
Of course, you can't really separate the two films. The thriller only works because of its use of aboriginal society as a black pit of exoticism into which we can project our fantasies and fears. The film's effective, slow pace, on the other hand, is justified by its pretense at having something to say about the differences between Western and native life. Weir is obviously aware of his own prejudices. In the interview with him on the DVD, he notes that the film is made from a Western perspective, and he goes to great lengths to present a sympathetic view of the aboriginal characters. His good intentions do not prevent him from exploiting aboriginal culture as horror decor, however. The aborigines in "The Last Wave" are effectively treated like Martians in a low-budget science fiction film from the 1950s. 
On the other hand, the horror elements *are* extremely well handled. The main character's visions of apocalypse come at you unexpectedly, sideways slivers of thrills. Weir makes abundant use of slow-motion, as water gushes out of a car radio, or people on the street are suddenly seen floating under water, to suggest the uncanny in the everyday. Even some of the more predictable moments, like the main character's deteriorating relationship with his wife, are handled effectively enough for them not to get in the way too long. 
If I prefer to think of "The Last Wave" as a horror film, it's because that's where it succeeds.  Its puffed up thematics may make it seem like an Art Film (and thereby justify its lovely presentation from the Criterion Collection), but it really isn't much different from the kind of thing they used to show on late night television. If it is a cut above such films, it is so only because of the skill with which it is made, not because of its literary ambitions or political pretenses.