This movie is more action centered than character centered, so one might wonder why a two-time best actress winner was cast in the lead role. Perhaps the answer is that Jodie Foster likes to play some roles of this sort as well as more intense characters of focus. I hope that is the explanation, for if she's doing something she likes to do here, that's fine, not as if she's wasted in roles not so demanding on her talent without her being much interested in them. That said, she and the rest of the cast do quite a sufficient job of doing what the story demands of them. A few things did surprise me about this movie. A minor one was the pervasive mirky darkness of the mood throughout. Seeing occasional light of day or more brightly lit rooms wouldn't have disrupted the needed theme here, but instead the movie dwells in a pervasive darkness that gets a bit taxing. But the main surprise was in plot contrivances. Previews and some reviews I'd heard before seeing it made me expect a movie about how the house's occupants fare in the title panic room during a typical burglary. The title strongly fortified room, supposedly essentially burglary-proof was designed as a retreat to protect occupants during such a home-invasion. I did get some idea before seeing the movie that the panic room becomes more of a trap that a protection. A general weakness of the whole principle behind a panic room? I expected the movie to imply that. But what happens instead is a plot so contrived for making all intentions of the panic room backfire, that no real light is shed on what a help the panic room would or would not be in a more typical burgalry. The story that does happen is interesting, but it's glaring contrivances can leave one wanting a story of how the title room would work in a more routine siege. One learns from previews and/or reviews that the burglary occurs on the first night the mother and daughter spend in their new house. Does this mean they live in a very high crime area, or is it a highly coincidental happening? That was the question that seemed obvious, but in fact the answer is neither. They moved into the house earlier than expected, and the burglars, who knew what valuables were in the house, were targeting it at a time when they expected it to be unoccupied. Why would the previous occupants have left their valuables behind? That is only the beginning of the contrivances. Furthermore the burglar who is the brains of the heist is none other than the designer of the panic room! That's how he knows just what they are looking for and where, and what the logistics of getting there are, for the safe holding the valuables is IN the panic room. That, at least is one aspect of the movie that has a lesson regarding preparedness against burglaries in general, not just this highly contrived one. If you're going to have a panic room and a safe for valuables, don't put the safe in the panic room! That can just make your place of intended refuge the very target of the burglars!