Let me first say I think this was one of Julia Roberts best roles in a film.  And Hugh Grant plays a very low key laid back guy not without dry wit and humor.  Even though this could never happen in real life, it is a charming film.  My wife and I saw it in the theatre and own it on DVD.

This film works on several levels.  The humor and the romance with some clever writing.  Grant's unasumming casual character, William Thaker, is changed when he meets megastar Anna Scott (Roberts) in his travel book store and she is browsing through books on Turkey.  Grant, "That book is not very good if browsing turns into buying, whereas this author (holding up a different book) has actually been to Turkey."  She leaves the store and he later bumps into her on the street and spills orange juice on her, creating the need for her to change her clothing.  Grant lives just across the street.  So the romance begins.

Grant's roommate, Spike, is quite a character.  A slovenly smoker, who doesn't wash his clothes or clean up after himself.  A quirky kind of guy that ads some comedic moments to the film.  Grant's sister in the film is totally the opposite of his character.  Overally talkative, wild hair, wide eyes and they don't resemble each other.  You have to suspend belief that she could actually be his sister.

Grant's friends are believeable and quite funny at times.  When his good friend is driving through London and everyone in the car is trying to give him directions he slams on the brakes and tells them to be quiet, "James Bond never has to put up with this kind of sh**."

The musical score works quite well I believe.  I enjoy many of the songs from the CD, with the exception of "She" by Costello.  His voice is wrong for the song.  The beginning and ending scenes of the film have the song.  It would have been better to close the film with "When You Say Nothing at All" sung by Ronan Keating.  The song is used quite well in a previous scene in the same setting.  Shania Twain sings "You've got a way in the closing credits and Boyzone also contribute with an abbreviated "No Matter What" written by Andrew Lloyd Webber in the closing credits.  One of the best uses of a song is Bill Withers "Ain't No Sunshine" sung as Grant walks through scenes showing the passing of time by the change of seasons.  Very well done.

Knowing how the press hound celebrities it is difficult to believe Anna Scott, a mega film star with pictures everywhere, is not followed by papparazzi every time she leaves her London hotel and that people don't recognize her when she is with Grant in public.  I would recommend this film.