This film is one of the best I have ever seen. Put simply, it is a work of genius. There have been a number of bad reviews about this film and it lost almost $60m at the box office (nevertheless, it still grossed a fairly respectable $45m). When I saw the DVD I couldn't understand why the film lost money at all.
The main prejudices against this film seem to be that it carries the "Final Fantasy" title. Excited fans of the gaming series were seriously dissapointed because this film has absolutely nothing to do with any of the games and is in a completly different style to them. This isn't surprising, because the games are incredibly complex and their stories would eat up hours of screen time. Fans of the game just did not have the foresight to enjoy it as a seperate movie. I had not played the games upon viewing and so could afford to be more impartial.
The rendered characters are incredible; for computer geeks it's worth buying the DVD to see Dr. Aki Ross's (the main character) hair blowing in the wind.
The storyline is as deep as you want it to be- it works on many levels, ultimately dealing with spirituality/life and death issues. On the other hand, it can be enjoyed solely as an action movie. Another great feature is the music, which is some of the best work I have heard- particularly the end credits/love scene piece "The Dream Within".
There is not a great deal of character development, and this upset critics. Nevertheless, there is still feeling and the viewer does get attached to most of the characters.
You simply HAVE to watch this film once. It really is nothing like anything that has gone before it. Although it has not proven to be the end of human actors as predicted, it has definately paved the way for other CGI (computer generated) films and has set the standard. Even if you are not interested in the spiritualist plot, you can simply be entertained by the action and humourous banter between the two army comrades, Neil and Jane.
Overall, this film is excellent. It was a real shame that it did not perform well at the box office, but in future years it will probably be looked back upon with respect and as a classic, it is such a trendsetter.
The DVD has some great features which help buff the storyline up a bit. I would definately reccomended this to all.