The Coen Brothers took Cormac McCarthy's already striking No Country for Old Men to a whole new and intensive level.  McCarthy's distinctive simple prose writing leaves a lot of the story up to the reader's imagination and unlike most novel-based films the Coen Brothers' movie doesn't answer all of those unknown questions.  Instead it adds to the intensity by leaving out major preludes.  The excitement in reading is just imagining the landscape and characters but the movies expected to give away all that mystery.  The Coen Brother's put together an extraordinary piece: in particular, the character portrayal and barren landscape match exactly what I had imagined.
Watching the film after reading the book allowed me to analyze each event and situation.  At several points in the film, the script matched exactly what was written in McCarthy's novel and presented each familiar conversation in a new context.
What really made the movie so intriguing was the intensity and eccentricity of each character.  It perfectly portrayed each of the three main characters: the good guy, the bad guy, and the victim.  Tommy Lee Jones' personality is perfect for the good guy character because he is introduced as the stoic, fearless Sheriff Bell until he is faced with the horrifying evil and violence and the viewer starts to see bits and pieces of his real humanistic emotions as his faith in humanity is crushed.  Anton Chigurh is the ultimate bad guy.  The chilling and enigmatic voice of Javier Bardem is haunting as well as his macho and dour disposition.  This character is what makes the story so dark:  his heartless violence and relentless guile make him the most dangerous killer you could imagine.  And caught in the middle, the igniter to the endless fire is Llewelyn Moss, played by Josh Brolin.  His inconvenient curiosity cost him his wife's life as well as his own.  One could say that his consequences were entirely unexpected, but Brolin's character is quick witted and didn't crack under pressure.  He did his best to protect himself and his wife even while they were separated, but it wasn't enough to out-do the ruthless killer who was on his trail.
The story epitomizes extreme violence and presents possibly the worst scenario of an unprepared civilian who is to face evil with no mercy.