The greatness of Churchill's leadership was that he could take any of the most adverse conditions he found himself in and turn that around and overcome these through intelligence, tenacity, and an ability to endure great hardship while never letting the sight of victory out of his mind.  Albert Finney has turned in a remarkable performance as this great leader and has shown from start to finish the unvarnished character, warts and all, of a man driven to protect his country at all costs.  The film predates WWII by showing Churchill during his worst time politcally as a member of parliament and his rise back to power. His struggles during this time prepare him to meet the challenge of war later.  The focus of the film is a mirror of our own time and seeks to warn us of dictators who show us diplomacy but have intentions of conquest and how we as free peoples must be ready to meet the challenge.  Finney's performance carries us through the different challenges of his political and personal life and show Churchill to be just such an enduring leader.  Facing almost certain political oblivion he fights back to regain his power within the government and protect his country.  Finney's performance is well crafted with many moments of Churchill at his best and at his not so best.  Specifically when he is debating the members of parliament on the coming German threat and more intimately when he is discussing his patriotism to his wife Clementine he is virtually indistinguishable.  His faults are displayed plainly and without heavy handedness so as to make the audience part of the room.  Notably his dictation to his secretary when he momentarily forgets she's there and starts to change his pants and then is embarressed as she reminds him of her presence.  His displays of depression which were real and Churchill's attempts to ward them off with painting and bricklaying. Altogether this is a very good film for anyone wishing to view the innerworkings of one of the greatest leaders of all time.  I highly recommend this and the biography by Churchill's official biographer Martin Gilbert  Churchill:A Life.