I was SHOCKED when I saw this film. It seemed that on all fronts it had gotten nothing but praise and Oscar buzz! Did any of these people read the book?

OK, the sets were great. The music was pretty good-most of the time (I don't like blaring piano solos during death scenes). But it was SO, SO UNFAITHFUL to Louisa May Alcott's story!

Never once does Jo say "Christopher Columbus"! Where is her tomboy character? Now, I like feminine girls. I like being a feminine girl. I love the character of Meg. But a big part of the story of "Little Women" is Jo being feisty and defiant and rude and unladylike, and she struggles valiantly throughout the story to overcome her faults. The guiding principles of the Bible and "The Pilgrim's Progress" are KEY. Instead, there's this governing agenda in the film that throws in lines about transcendentalism and liberal feminism. They also deleted many, many scenes and events from the book and threw in these ridiculous plugs for womens' rights. Now, I believe in feminine equality, but that is not what "Little Women" is about!

The cast was pretty bad. Jo could be quite good, and she picked up elements of Jo's character that many have left out, but she was generalized. Some of the distinctiveness of the character was lost.

Meg was a disappointment. She is not just a silly, vain young thing. She is the moral strength in the sisters' relationship. She is a noble, upright young girl trying to live her life well and virtuously. A lot of that was left out in the film; instead, she is a boring, vaguely attractive dweeb that cannot hope to be figured out.

You would think that if you got two separate actresses playing Amy, at least one of them would get it right. Guess again. The younger Amy is supposed to be twelve, and thinks that she is a grand lady. Instead, she acts like she was seven, and just a silly little girl. The real Amy is meticulously attentive to her speech and deportment, this Amy says "Blast!". And the older Amy is too tall to be a little girl, and too naive to be a woman, so she doesn't know what to do with herself. At tea she may be graceful, but at acting she is awkward.

Laurie talks like he has laryngitis, and desperately needs a haircut.

John Brooke is a fiasco. He acts like a zombie and looks like a freak.

Aunt March and Mr. Laurence are scarcely present at all in the film. They are key adult characters at the formation of the little women, but the relationship between Mr. Laurence and Beth was virtually destroyed, confined to merely the gift of the piano.

Professor Bhaer missed it. He's supposed to be a nice, bumbling, old German guy with a big brown beard and terrible attempts at English. Instead, he is a cultured, would-be-suave philosopher who is much too forward in his relationship with Jo.

The director, I noticed, loves chopping up scenes so that there's very little flow, you don't know where this scene takes place, and why does she love close-ups on people's feet??

This film could have been beautiful. It could have been a masterpiece. I was looking forward to an equivalent of the film version of "Anne of Green Gables". But it's so shallow and unsympathetic to the original story, that I was glad that I had been raised watching the 1933 version. At some points, this version can be very nice and enjoyable. I loved Beth. I liked Jo. But if you're going to make a film of "Little Women", then please do it right and read the book.