Inspector Frederick Abberline (Johnny Depp) is on the trail of the world's most famous serial killer, Jack the Ripper. Following a tangled web of gruesome murders and intrigue, Abberline and his batman George Godley track down the killer only to discover something more shocking than the killer.
A stylish period piece, similar in style to David Lean's "Great Expectations" and "Oliver Twist," all capturing the true (seedy)nature of the most powerful city in the 19th century. Staring Johnny Depp as Inspector Frederick Abberline,The film starts off well enough, unfortunately the romantic element Mary Kelly(featuring the fairly wooden Heather Graham) destroys what would have otherwise been an excellent thriller. The first hour is excellent, but a quick succession of murders has left the writers with little to play on other than intrigue and romance. Unfortunately they choose romance. This has had the terrible effect of mutilating the ending, leaving us with a rather short confrontation, that doesn't do justice to the ripper's prestige. Depp makes a delightful Abberline, immersing himself into the role, he makes a truly excellent Abberline. Graham, despite her beauty, is sorely lacking, her dull expression leads us to suggests she was not happy playing a victorian pinchprick. The strongest element in "From Hell" would be its supporting cast,  containing some of today's best British actors, (Ian Holm as Sir William Gull, Ian Richardson as Sir Charles Warren and Robbie Coltrane as Sergeant George Godley,) it adds another star to score.
The film is based on one of the most controversial (as less accepted) Ripper theories, made in Stephen Knight's "JACK THE RIPPER: THE FINAL SOLUTION." As a credible account, it lags severely behind the Francis Tumblety and James Maybrick cases, finding favor among the Conspiracy theorists, rather than historians. In reality Mary Kelly was murdered, and Abberline lived till he was 86. The Kelly/Abberline romance is unbelievable, and wastes valuable screen time which could have otherwise been spent on the confrontation.
You will find that "From Hell" is:
Entertaining, thrilling and interesting. The acting is generally excellent, the sets are well designed and the characters are interesting. 
You will find that "From Hell is NOT:
Factually correct regarding Jack the Ripper, romantic or at times pleasant.