Let me start off by saying simply: Clear and Present Danger is a really engrossing film. Starring Harrison Ford as CIA agent Jack Ryan and featuring well-known actors such as James Earl Jones and Willem Dafoe, CaPD is basically about a secret and illegal military campaign against the Cali cartel in Colombia, and the political strife that surrounds it.

The film opens with a Coast Guard vessel boarding a yacht in the Gulf of Mexico, which they've discovered to have been commandeered by Panamanian drug runners and its original crew of Americans murdered. As it turns out, one of the victims on the boat was a good, no, a LIFELONG friend of the President of the US. CIA agent Ryan (Ford) comes up with a theory that the vessel was the target of retribution by Ernesto Escobedo, a Colombian drug kingpin. It seems the president's friend had been laundering money in partnership with the drug cartel, and when the money stopped rolling in, the cartel got pissed, to put it blunty. So, CIA chief Ritter (Henry Czerny) obtains secret authorization to insert a team of Special Forces to take revenge on the cartel. The team is lead by Clark (Dafoe), who promptly get down to Colombia and start kicking cartel butt. However, after Ryan discovers the disturbing truth regarding the whole issue, the troops are left stranded, and Ryan is in danger of losing his entire career. Fortunately, with some incriminating evidence and help from Clark, he is able to rescue the American commandos, take down the leadership of the cartel and a Cuban intelligence agent who helped create the whole mess, and ends up keeping his honor and integrity by testifying to the Senate about the President's and CIA's illegal actions.

The film is well-acted and features believable characters, not to mention a complex and intriguing plot and great action scenes and effects. Definitely worth the watch, even if you're not a fan of Clancy. Having seen the film but not read the book, it's definitely on my library list now. Two thumbs up.