The transfer from print to film is neither a straightforward nor accurate process, and as such has left many casualties by the wayside: The Cider House Rules, Jurrassic Park, and so forth.  Typically poor adaptations are  either changed too much or too little: many are made to be suitable to too  wide an audience or have additions which clumsily contrast with the more  directly transferred parts, and many are so sloppily adapted that vestigial  scenes disrupt the movie's flow while not contributing anything that  connects to any other part of the much shortened movie.  One Flew Over the  Cuckoo's Nest is adapted nearly perfectly, making significant changes only  where necessary for the move to film, and adding ideas of its own which  beautifully match the rest of the movie.
Although it exhibits a few  vestigial scenes (such as nurse's suggestion that RPM (Jack Nicholson) is  ripping the other patients off), it has made many intelligent and  neccessary changes.  For example, it abandons chief as the narrator, and  therefore eliminates the possibility that his mental machinery is warping  the whole story ("But, Please.  It's still hard for me to have a clear  mind thinking on it.  But it's the truth even if it didn't happen."),  opting instead for a more movie-friendly third person perspective, centered  on RPM.  Of course, some elements had to be completely cut (e.g. the  "Black Boys" are nearly nice people in the movie), but all  cutting was done with the necessary, elegant precision of trimming a  flower.
The acting on almost everybody's behalf is, at its worst, very  good, and at its best, brilliant.  The mental patients are enjoyably  extreme personalities played enjoyably accurately by such offbeats as Danny  DeVito.  Jack Nicholson seemed to just be playing a side of himself, but  his acting is still great to watch even if it probably wan't very  challenging for him.  But most of all, Louise Fletcher played Nurse Ratched  perfectly, making her both understandable and monstrous, while keeping her  character so realistic that you will find yourself analyzing her the way  you analyze real people instead of the way you analyze movie characters.  That is acting at its best.
Not a single frame in this movie is by any  means beautiful, including the beginning and ending which contain scenics.  These scenics were apparently shot with that relentlessly color-accurate  film that you could still find in the 70s, which made some otherwise  beautiful shots painfully murky, brownish, and otherwise realistic.  Most  of the rest of the movie was shot indoors, inside a painfully sterile  building with asylum-white walls and asylum-exposed-piping.  On more than  one occasion, I really started feeling and thinking like I was trapped in  that building, like the characters: when we saw some people from the  outside playing music by the fence, I was genuinely excited that something  was a little different today.  There is a painting by the front door near  the beginning of the movie which is so drab and obligatorially placed that  you can just see Nurse Ratched choosing and placing it in order to  miserably fail at lightening up the place.  Every frame of this movie  ball-cuttingly sterile.  It is expertly shot, but don't expect to want to  cry at its beauty like with other expertly-shot films, like The Shawshank  Redemption.
The mastering to DVD is nothing special in this production,  but hi-fi video and audio is so unnecessary to this film that it would  probably interfere with its overall feel.  Had those scenics at the  beginning and end been bright and crisp, their significance would have been  vastly changed.  Most of the audio is oppressively equalized so that you  can turn the volume high, but still not hear what some people are saying,  like you are sinking into insanity.  Do not expect pretty pictures or  amazing sound from this disk -- expect something numbingly, painfully  well-done.
Don't let the stupid box art that could just as easily be for  yet another mediocre 70s buddy comedy keep you from taking it off the  shelf.
 -=Marcus