The Great Ziegfeld is a captivating film that chronicles the ups and downs of Florenz Ziegfeld's life and his career in show business. The cinematography and choreography are excellent and the musical score, while a bit syrupy sweet at times, generally enhances the film. The quality of the print varies at times but overall it's pretty good. The plot moves along at a good pace and I wasn't ever bored; the musical numbers are perfect!!! The story of Ziegfeld's life is rather condensed even in this roughly three hour film; but I got a good sense of his life story.

When the action starts, we quickly meet small time, relatively young show business rivals at the Chicago World's Fair of 1893; Flo Ziegfeld (William Powell) and Jack Billings (Frank Morgan). Flo has a strong man act that gets attention and customers after Ziegfeld has a brilliant idea much to Jack's consternation. Flo also has a penchant for stealing Jack's lady friends--and sometimes even Jack's star female performers.

Time goes by and Jack is in Europe to sign Anna Held (Luise Rainer), a great French star, to be in one of his shows. But before Jack can sign Anna, Flo steals her away using his charm and intellect; Anna and Flo also fall in love. They all return to America and before you know it (the film glosses over a lot) Anna and Flo have been married a year. Meanwhile, Flo puts on shows starring Anna but eventually Anna becomes quite jealous of the other "girls" Flo has his eye on as these women could be future stars for future shows. It's interesting to see that although they are rivals, Jack Billings knows a business opportunity when he sees one so he and his partner Erlanger (Paul Irving) often loan Ziegfeld money to put on shows. Ziegfeld also becomes famous for putting on shows called "The Follies."

Anna leaves Flo after a misunderstanding; she sees Flo with the talented but most unreliable Audrey Dane (Virginia Bruce). (And yes, that telephone scene in which Luise Rainer acts so well must have clinched her that Oscar; her performance there is brilliant.) Flo becomes depressed but he eventually meets Billie Burke when she attends a party one night with Jack and, predictably, woos and steals Jack's woman once again. Flo and Billie fall in love and marry.

More time passes and we see Flo putting on more shows. He has a daughter with Billie Burke; and the rest of the film reveals how Flo's personal life and career work out.

Look also for fine performances by Ray Bolger playing himself, Fanny Brice as herself and Harriet Hoctor as herself. Nat Pendleton is terrific as Sandow and Joan Holland plays little Patricia Ziegfeld. Ann Gillis plays Mary Lou as a child; Jean Chatburn plays Mary Lou as an adult; Rosina Lawrence plays Sally Manners; Marcelle Corday is Anna's maid Marie and Ernest Cossart plays Sidney.

The DVD comes with two great bonus features. We get "Ziegfeld on Film" and "New York Hails The Great Ziegfeld."

The Great Ziegfeld deserves recognition as a fine motion picture that tells the story of Florenz Ziegfeld's life. His story is an important one not simply because he knew how to make savvy business deals but because of his contributions to the arts. People who enjoy classic movie musicals will want this for their collections and fans of the actors will not be disappointed.