It's hard to say anything about the plot of this movie, that you can't have already gotten from a trailer, without giving away the ending. Sandra Bullock plays Kate Forster, a young doctor just starting her career, having moved to the city after living in a glass house built over a lake in the country. When she moves, she leaves a note for the next resident of the house explaining a few small details and asking him to forward her mail. Alex Wyler, played by Keanu Reeves, is a youngish architect building cookie-cutter condos. He's the son of a famous, if not family-oriented, architect and their relationship makes for an interesting sub-plot. Alex moves into the house and by way of letters exchanged via the same mailbox, he and Kate realize they are two people living two years apart. The long-distance romance that ensues is expected, and at some points in the movie the producers spare the viewer from having to listen to Alex read Kate's letters in monotone and instead put the two side-by-side where they carry on a conversation as if they were actually in the same room.

In The Lake House, Bullock delivers a solid, if less-than-stellar performance. No one is going to remember her for this movie, though they might remember Reeves, if only because it was something different for him. There is one very touching scene where she realy connects with the audience and I think many  will relate to her "bird in the hand" situation surrounding a past love interest.

Reeves, ah Keanu...the recipient of many a criticism. I personally feel that Keanu isn't so much a bad actor, as he is a poor emoter. Once you accept that this is the way he is as a real person, I think it's easier to accept his acting style. Regardless, it's good to see Keanu doing something that doesn't involve a highwire and kung-fu. I think anti-Keanu viewers will be pleasantly surprised.

I only give this 4 stars instead of five because it tended to bog down in a few places. Overall though, it was a good movie, even for a date-night.