Poultrygeist: Night of the Chicken Dead is Lloyd Kaufman's best movie
to date. Which is true for almost all of his previous movies as the
legend only gets better and better. This film can be read on so many
levels that finally being able to revisit it over and over again now
that it is out on DVD is something many fans have been waiting for. Of
course the careless viewer can watch it as a wonderful splattering gory
and amazingly entertaining, wildly funny horror musical with a great
story and one of the best casts Troma has ever had the pleasure of
working with, and even then you are in for a treat because no
nanosecond is wasted. There is so much going on in the background, the
tiniest props have the most insightful jokes and messages on them.
Check what is on the headstones in the opening scenes, read the titles
on DVD covers appearing in the film, T-shirts people are wearing -
there are many opportunities to freeze-frame your DVD and see what is
easily missed when you saw the film in a theater. Every detail has been
given much care, down to the names of all the characters. But there are
also load of political statements, that can be read painfully wrong if
you are not aware of the background of the director, and are all the
more powerful if you are. Other than that, it is one of those rare
zombie-themed films that are provokingly intelligent. There are so many
zombies in hundreds of movies that are there only for gores sake, here
they serve a purpose, here they present a striking metaphor of what
modern society has come to, filled with unthinking trend-following
food-stuffing individuals who seem to have no control over themselves
and much less a mind of their own. Most striking is the idea the movie
is built upon: a fast food restaurant built on a sacred native American
burial ground magnificently represents how the new Americans have
treated the land they took and the original cultures that lived on it:
destroyed it, killed it, buried it and built a literally and
metaphorically totally tasteless new meaningless culture on top of it.

The dialog is fast, witty and powerful and the film leaves the viewer
with a whole lot to chew upon This again is a movie that demonstrates
how ridiculous the popular notion is that Troma makes trivial and
tasteless movies. Lloyd Kaufman may make movies the about tastelessness
of todays world, but that doesn't make his movies tasteless. Quite the
contrary - there are very few directors in the movie industry who are
able to show what is wrong with humanity in such a painfully accurate
way,

The 3-disc DVD set is not to be missed by anyone who is remotely
interested in horror, Troma, movies in general and fans of Lloyd
Kaufman's work. It is a total encyclopedia on what is Poultrygeist with
not only a beautifully presented widescreen version of the film, but
loads of insightful extra's on all three discs. There is a feature
length documentary on the making of the film, shots of the NYC
premiere, deleted scenes, film-making lessons, an alternate ending,
music video's, karaoke versions of the songs from the film and many
more Tromatic goodies.

A great film by a legendary genius director with a very talented cast.
And all that in this kind of loaded package for such a price. Get it,
before they're gone. It's the best buy for your money.