I've been a Monty Python fan my entire life, and a huge fan of this film in particular. This is the best that MP&THG has ever looked, and perhaps as good as it ever will, or even can, look or sound.

Instead of rehashing what has already been said about the film itself and the shiny new 1080p video, I'd like to focus on a few of the extras, and what exactly is different about this release compared to the previous DVD release.

Most of the extras (Holy Grail locations, etc.) were all on the earlier DVD, but the new additions, the Outtakes and Lost Animations, are real gems available for the first time only on this Blu-Ray.

The Outtakes consist of longer versions of some scenes, which were understandably cut or shortened, but there are also some alternate takes and screw-ups with the cast forgetting lines or laughing in the middle of a take. It's all great fun, and a humorous look behind the scenes at an already drop-dead hilarious movie.

Terry Gilliam's Lost Animations are a hoot. We see a few spare parts that may not have had any particular intent, but there is also an extended opening to The Tale of Sir Robin, involving a collapsing cathedral, a stray rock catapulted into the sky and knocking out a flying dragon-like creature which then falls into the title card, impaling its mouth, collapsing, thus creating the "R" in "Robin."  And there is also an extended opening to "The Tale of Sir Lancelot" in which a cartoon Lancelot battles a giant slug. Total Gilliam lunacy at his stream-of-consciousness best!

The only cut scene I wish had been included as an extra is "King Brian the Wild," which is a scene that was written but never shot. It appears only as a pencil sketch animation with sound on the Holy Grail video game that came out during the Dark Ages of video games. Unless it's an easter egg on this disc, or if it appears in the "Holy Book of Days," which I have not had a chance to explore yet.

There are a couple of things missing from the Blu-Ray, including the "Follow the Rabbit" feature from the previous DVD. That feature would be useless here anyway, since the new "Holy Book of Days" downloadable feature promises to be far more extensive and comprehensive.  Also, the false opening "Dentist on the Job" short is not at the start of the film. Not a deal-breaker, of course, but if you are fond of that ephemeral opening gag, then hang on to your DVD.

The Blu-Ray menus are much better than the DVD menus, which I always thought were rather tedious and impossible to by-pass.

The various audio tracks, commentaries and subtitles (including the Japanese language track and the Henry VI subtitles) are all there, but on the DVD the default audio was the original mono track. Here the default is the more recent stereo remaster, including Michael Palin's re-recording of the narration.

This Blu-Ray release is a very impressive return to a fantastic comedy that has stood the test of time.