This film meets and surpasses all expectations.  If you are a fan of westerns, or of Clint Eastwood in particular, this film is a must-own.

Eastwood plays a man whose family is brutally murdered by the Redlegs, a band of guerilla warriors who fought for Kansas under the leadership of the dastardly Jennison and his "Jayhawkers" during the Civil War.  They were the foil of William Clarke Quantrill and his followers who fought for Missouri during the war.  (For more on this conflict, albeit with an unfortunate Jayhawk-slant, see the recent film "Ride with the Devil".)

As for its treatment of the Civil War, this film follows "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly" in the sense that it does not explicitly take a side.  It does, however, present characters that are much more aware of a war going on and who are much more partisan about it than were the bit-players in that last of the Leone trilogy.

Yet Eastwood's film here abandons the partisanship that so embodies even a contemporary discussion of the war in the American South.  Despite his family being brutally murdered by Kansans, Josey Wales ultimately rises above the conflict in his attempt to get what he wants out of life.  Josey is rightfully distrustful of the Union, but he doesn't translate that into a political vendetta.  The conflict does not destroy him, even when the prejudices of anti-Confederate Kansans are poised to strike him down.

The story finds Josey making unlikely friendships with those he encounters along his way, and provides many good-natured comic moments in those encounters.  Josey Wales is the quintessential Western character, an average farmer who is dragged into conflicts larger than his own by the circumstances around him, forced to play a role that he never is fully willing to embrace.

Eastwood, despite being new to directing, delivers on the potential of this film in full.  The cinematography is consistently engaging, the soundtrack is interesting, and the performances are stellar.  This is definitely a 70's style western, and Eastwood practically defines the era with this picture.

If you are a fan of the Leone trilogy wondering whether Eastwood was ever as good apart from those films, then this is the one to see.  If you are an Eastwood fan from his recent films, then this is a great introduction to the skills he would consistently display as a director in the future.  If you are looking at this film from the viewpoint of a typical western-genre fan, you will not be disappointed by this film's excellent story and great performances.  Basically, everyone who would be lead to this review on amazon.com is a person who would enjoy this film.