First of all, Oprah has been my hero for so long now and I just recently bought this dvd collection. I am working hard right now to build a career for myself as an actress, and I have been working very hard. Never giving up, love it more than anything else in the world... and this woman, with all her power and her grace, and her true heroic qualities represents to me, the AMERICAN DREAM. She really and truly does...

 My dream, my wildest wildest dream is to be able to sit face to face with her one day, on her show, ideally... She is like no other. Oprah, I know you read these because you've mentioned how you read the comments on amazong about other things like books... so my thought would be, how you could you resist not to read the ones about your OWN dvd collection? But I hope that you do...

 I've read about her and followed her life and her amazing journey, and I have the most heartfelt, immense respect for her that it really brings me to tears sometimes just thinking about her and the affect she's had on my life. And what's amazing is she doesn't even know me.

 I just balled sitting there watching her in this dvd collection especially in moments like the surpises and the people who touched her life the most and her BIRTHDAAAAY... that was so touching and what a way to go for John Travolta to put it in the best words possible, she is, without a doubt, an American Hero...

 I just cried and I rewatched parts soon after with my own famiy because it touched me so deeply. I can't express in words even how powerful and how extraordinary she is and how much I truly truly love this woman. I loved the interview with Jim Carey as well because he mentioned how he would visualize himsel getting 10,000,000 dollars and then it happened and I believe in that. I belive in visualizing yourself, but like he said, you can't just si around drinking coffee! I work every day to further myself and believe you must, and I SO believe in the idea that preparation meets opportunity! I've always thought that and the first time I heard Oprah say it, it's like she confirmed it for me.

 I sat and just cried myself out after seeing her talk about the story where she said she sang "I surrender myself" to God because she wanted to be in The Color Purple so badly, then Steven Speilberg is on the phone for her THE INSTANT she did that. I'm about to cry right now... really. I could go on ... and on. But Oprah, if you read this, which I feel in my heart, I really feel you will... I feel we will meet one day. I really do.

 BUY THIS COLLECTION NOW!