I read these books as a small girl and loved them; and, I am currently reading them to my 7 y/o daughter.  Reading them now, I appreciate them from a child's view, and especially love that a chapter book has captivated my child.  However, I did find some points rather disappointing.  As a book, this series falls significantly shortly of JRR Tolkein's books but seemed to try and mirror a lot of his epic tale.  The story leaves holes that Tolkein did not and because of that I couldn't give it 5 stars, and I grudgingly gave it 4 (3.5 is better suited).  The movie itself is the same as the book.  It leaves a lot to be questioned, it does not encompass a fantasy as it should and the young actors were not properly directed throughout.

To elaborate on the last point, I felt the Narnia world leaves a lot to be imagined.  It does not go into the depths that I feel any science fiction should.  The community is minimal, the land is not as fascinating as it could, and should, have been.  The child actors, while young, were often corny (for lack of a better term).  Even my daughter laughed at Lucy's expressions, or Susan's and Lucy's absence from the "war".  For me, I realize that at the time of the books women were not strong and self-sustaining as characters, but allowing Edmund, Susan's much younger brother (and Lucy's elder by only a year), to participate in the war while Susan laid with a corpse for hours on end was awkward.  The children altogether didn't develop as characters should, and when they did reach those coming of age moments, they were lacking in detail and logic.

Despite that, I was happy to realize that, similar to the Golden Compass movie, the religious undertones are not blatant to a child unless someone pointed them out as such.

To anyone hoping to feel the awe that was created by Tolkein, and again illustrated in the LOTR movies, Narnia will fall short, in both book and movie.  Nonetheless, it is timeless and something that can be appreciated.  My daughter has loved LOTR and Narnia movies; however, she isn't able to read Tolkein or Pullman yet so I won't compare in that sense.