This movie surpassed my expectations since I didn't hear too much about it, or even a lot of praise from critics while it was in theatres. I am glad I picked this one up. We're used to seeing Denzel in dramatic movies, and I won't go any further than stating that Denzel is my favorite actor to watch and study as an aspiring dramatic actor myself. Anyhow, his performance here harks back to most recently "Training Day." It's mind-boggling to think which of his performances this year should be nominated for an Oscar (this one or his "Manchurian Candidate" performance).
This was a pretty enthralling and watchable film, although it started hitting some speed bumps after the first hour. I really enjoyed the story up until about 50 minutes into the film, when a major event happens (I won't reveal). I like how Creasy (Washington) was impenetrable at first to the family and girl he bodyguards for, but then he starts taking an interest in little Dakota. Dakota plays Pita, and gives quite a memorable performance for a young actress. The first scene between Creasy and Christopher Walken's character was too formal and conventional, but both really start turning up the heat not long after. Even J. Lo's Marc Anthony (as Pita's father) gives a good performance but ends up shooting himself because of how being married to J. Lo this long has boggled his mind! Just kidding.
Needless to say, Creasy goes on a relentless tear of vengence in the second half of the film, and I like it because there is a real emotional cause behind it unlike a lot of action movies. You know there is a point to all the violence and something drastic will emerge at the ending. Denzel is more than smooth and believable on his rampage (similar to his "Training Day" invulnerabity). He was just beginning to get his appreciation for life back, and the very thing that caused that was taken from him. There are a couple twists in the plot, and a heartfelt ending. However, they never bothered to show where Creasy was living out of and where he kept getting a change of clothes in the second half of the movie. Oh well...
"Man On Fire" has a pretty fresh plot, an excellent performance from the lead (what else could you expect from Denzel?), an extended period of action and revenge with a reason, yet this movie is almost ruined. I think the director (Tony Scott) had some nice, fresh ideas going for him, but he takes it too far with all the schizoid camera shots, color-changes, and hard-rock music. It ends up being way, way too overbearing. It seems like he's trying too hard to make it modern and cutting-edge. This aside, you have a solid movie, that I think of more highly now than when I was actually watching it. Those camera and directing quirks still can't take away from what this film has going for it. It may not be among the best of movies that Denzel has been a part of, but "Man On Fire" shall satisfy fans of many different genres. Denzel fans, drama fans, action fans, (even violence fans) check this one out! See what you think...