Kansen... That name has become legendary with me. Not because of the unusual plot line, or the cinematography, or even the idea of a slow-roasting corpse in a hospital room- which, now that I put it that way, makes me chuckle.
No, the reason this film is legendary is because of its incredible ability- even MORE so, if you'll believe me, to hit and miss. Either you think it's superbly psychological, or the most hilarious thing you could have accidentally picked up at the video store. There doesn't seem to be much in between there.

If you're reading this, you've likely already seen the other reviews, which give varying amount of summarized plot information. Perhaps they mention the quirks of the hospital staff. Perhaps they mention the visual oddities of watching people 'dissolve'. Whatever it is they do mention, I will assume I may talk with relative freedom from this point.

I think the major thing while watching this movie is an ability to suspend belief at will. Also, if you don't know too much about medicine, it helps. Example: It's really quite annoying to be me sometimes- during the movie, I just kept muttering to myself. "How the heck are they doing all this? Is it really gangrenous? I mean, it looks like it would be, but I've never seen it dissolve THAT rapidly. And what exactly is up with the blood thing? Am I the only one who is almost completely unable to tell these nurse women apart? What the heck is with that fox-mask kid, anyway...?" And so on. It makes it very difficult to enjoy the movie when you're constantly questioning its' credibility.

Second, you need to watch it alone. It's a good horror flick rule to have anyway, but there are some movies you can invite people to, given the proper atmosphere. For this one, you can't. Even with belief suspended, the hold it has over you tends to be tenuous. A distraction could quite possibly ruin the entire thing for you. It's not necessarily a bad thing that the movie doesn't try as hard as others to pull you in; I like to think it's simply being polite. If you want to be frightened (or at least creeped out), it requests that you make a bit of effort to do so as well.

Third, watch at night. Turn your screen brightness down a bit if possible. Get comfortable, don't move much. Bring snacks with you so you don't have to get up.

Of course, the atmosphere might not work for some. It might help for certain people to bring a pad of paper and a pen to write everything down- like watching a game show, or reading a crime novel, it helps to unravel clues. See if you can guess the plot twist that's coming beforehand- it can even enhance your enjoyment of the movie. If you can do all of these things, you might just be able to get sucked into it. No guarantees, but they help, I think.

The best thing I managed to get out of this movie, aside from something to laugh at while I'm at work, may sound a bit cynical, but it completely honest. I obtained another favorite music artist.
That's right, the ending song is- as far as I'm concerned- awesome. It's titled, for those who don't read Japanese. "Yume". Miwako Okuda, the singer, is superb. (If you've ever heard of her before, it's probably because one of her other songs, "Shizuka", was an ending for Great Teacher Onizuka.) I only, sadly, have the four songs that were available on her Myspace page that someone set up, but Yume is included, along with "Boku ga Ikiteitakoto", and "Kanashimi ni Oborete". 'Boku ga' is a soft, reminiscent song from the perspective of a newly deceased person, and 'Kanashimi' is, to use the American term, 'emo'. But it's still quite enjoyable, especially if you just got dumped and are looking for a good annoyed/depressed mood song.