Comedian Chris Rock keeps his comedy low key for most of this documentary, playing the interested interviewer, listening more than talking. He mentions his two young daughters who still have natural hairstyles, but are beginning to notice that smooth straight hair is the ideal. Rock acknowledges that they will feel pressure to relax their hair and while he doesn't seem too crazy about it, he realizes it's only a matter of time.

But now he's curious. Why is straight hair "good" hair? What's involved in straightening hair? Are there alternatives?

To find out, he goes to the major black hair care product convention, which takes place twice a year in Atlanta. He finds that black hair is big business, controlled mainly by major corporations such as Revlon, but there are also some smaller companies, some black-owned, most not.

The most revealing bit of information is that the vast amount of hair that is used for hair weaves, another popular method of getting straight hair, comes from India. While in India, Rock learns from one hair dealer that the hair is so valuable that Indian women are at risk of having their long hair snipped off in dark movie theaters.

It would have been interesting to find out a little more of the history of black hair styles, to find out when it became practically mandatory for black women to straighten. There's a poignant interview in which a group of high school girls, all but one with straightened hair, talk about the necessity of having smooth hair for getting a job. The girls acknowledge the cuteness of the one girl's natural style, then declare that they would never hire someone who had such an unprofessional look, such a disregard for her own appearance.

Too much time was devoted to the competition at the hair convention, which is a staged extravaganza with dancing and costumes and very little hair styling, oddly enough.

Good Hair is a thoughtful and entertaining documentary, which is about black hair, but could easily apply to the lengths many women (and increasingly, men) of all ethnicities go to to look good. Many of us spend more time and money than we can afford on beauty regimens. We apply dangerous chemicals to our bodies in the pursuit of beauty. Tattoos and whiteners and straighteners have been around for thousands of years. It's not likely to change any time soon.