This is really just an unbelievable DVD that needs to be viewed by all people, regardless of their feelings for classic rock or Pink Floyd. Snowy White, a British blues guitarist, and Doyle Bramhall II, a Texan with an SRV style to his playing, take over for Mr. Gilmour and do it justice. Doyle Bramhall... his attire takes some getting used to. Hes easy to dislike. I rolled my eyes and sneered upon the sight of what looked to me like a high-class gigolo from the 80's.... but this kid ROCKS. In fact: As I'm writing this he is on tour with Eric Clapton, along with Derek Trucks from the Allman Bros. Believe me: Bramhall II, is a legend in the making (and I think hes toned down his attire lately... which is good). Kudos to Roger for grabbing this talent.

Jon Carin, who amazingly enough is now touring with David Gilmour... is obvously a very talented and likable fellow. What he and the band do with Dogs is beyond words. Carin's strumming and excellent voice along with Bramhall's ferocious guitar chops... you just got to see/hear it to believe.

The backing singers are very soulful. Well two of them are... the skinnier girl on the right (from your/audience's perspective) does close to nothing as far as I can tell and screws up her only solo (on the Bravery of Being Out of Range), but the other girls belt out some spine-chilling solos. The way the one lady sings Mother... and the way the other girl sings Perfect Sense... you couldn't ask for more soulful, well-honed voices with those two around.

Roger, as another reviewer said, is very at ease and constantly expresses his enjoyment... for better or worse. I guess the thing of it is, and my only real gripe, is that this concert shows that Roger Water's Live doesn't really need Roger Waters. Half the time his hands aren't on the instrument!!! but he is instead interacting with the crowd. Cool, but uh... you get the feeling that he may as well put down the bass and just do his singing/talking. Fairweather-Low is usually playing the bass lines that you hear.

I won't go track by track (C. Numb rocks!), but will just sum up by saying that I love all Floyd, and do consider Mr. Gilmour's unique, expressive guitar to be perhaps the most quintessential piece to what is really Pink... but if you just take this concert for what it is... it is a true masterpiece.