I recently bought the "Love and Basketball" DVD together with "Something New" (another stellar movie starring Sanaa Lathan, by the way).  Watching this movie again after 5+ years, I was reminded of why I absolutely fell in LOVE with L&B in the first place.  So many things that Monica and Q experienced in each "Quarter" of the movie brought back memories of my own high school and college experiences. In many ways, L&B was a real coming-of-age movie for me.  (Not to mention that the soundtrack is a fabulous trip down musical memory-lane).

L&B is a poignant, modern love story that follows the evolving lives/love of two young African-American athletes as they navigate through the complications thrown at them as they mature from their pre-teen years to adulthood.  Sanaa Lathan is a standout in this movie; as always, she infuses realness and sincerity in to every character she plays, and makes it look so easy. Without the benefit of make-up, hairstyles, or prior basketball experience, Sanaa shines in L&B. Her understatedly-emotive acting style draws you in and keeps you hooked for the duration of the film, as she communicates Monica's feelings as much through facial expressions and subtle, spot-on body language, as she does through words.  Omar Epps does an admirable job as Quincy, a young man who initially lives the dream, loses it, and then gives up until Monica's indomitable spirit inspires him to take his life back and to fight for their love.

The on-screen chemistry between Sanaa and Omar is so perfect it just tugs at your heartstrings. I think that the first love scene between Monica and Q is one of the most beautiful, touching, and tastefully done scenes of its kind in film.  I NEVER cry at movies (even tear-jerkers), and I was a little misty-eyed at the end of Monica's "first time" with Q--not typical for a love scene. Also, the second-to-last scene where Monica and Q play basketball one-on-one for Q's heart--accompanied by a perfectly-chosen song by Meshell Ndegeocello--brought a tear or two to my eyes.  Thanks to the skillful touches of director Gina Prince-Bythewood and the stellar performances of Sanaa and Omar, one of the many strengths of L&B is that the audience comes to feel so much for Monica and Q, that by the final one-on-one scene, you are totally invested in the obvious depth of feeling between them, and the outcome of the game.

L&B is a classic love story, but it deftly manages to avoid triteness or unoriginality by giving the viewer subtle glimpses into several of life's other realities as they impact Monica and Q. The marked disparity in opportunities for male and female athletes underscores the entire movie, and we get an inside look as Monica invests sweat and tears pursuing her dream. We also see the sacrifices and strength of both Monica and some of the supporting female characters in the movie, such as Monica and Q's mothers, and Monica's teammates.

I loved the ending of this movie as well.  By giving the audience a positive glimpse into the future, L&B delivered the "happy ending" that we've come to expect from romantic movies, without being corny or overly-sappy.  L&B is a wonderful (under-recognized), timeless love story that will touch athletes and non-athletes like, and it is a "must" for any movie collection.  A+