First of all, to all of you naysayers that wrote that it's too "confusing", "boring", "violent", then you never gave the movie a chance.

Slavery, in itself, was nothing but a virtual bloodbath that began hundreds of years ago.  You'd be a fool to try to close your eyes and ears and say, "Enough of that; it's in the past".

Sethe, who was fortunate to escape slavery, made a sacrifice that most women today would do for their children.  Tell me folks, if a stranger came to your home to take your children to a life of degregation, pain and suffering, would you hand them over, or put them in a place where they would be safe?  That's what Sethe did.  However, she realized what she lost and longed for her Beloved to come back.  And she did.  Beloved was filled with the anger and the angst that Sethe built within her.  When Beloved came, did you notice how Sethe behaved?  Her anger left her and channeled into Beloved.  But now, this anger had invaded the home and ultimately into everyone else.

Now, Beah Richards (RIP), did an extrordinary job on this movie.  Her portrayal of Baby Suggs couldn't have gone to a more worthy person.  It was as if Beah was leaving her message of life to everyone before she died.  Truly uplifting; better than what I've heard in most churches today.

Yes, there is a lot of symbolism in this movie.  Yes, this movie was made to creep you out a bit.  And YES, you must pay attention to understand what's going on.  I know it didn't go well in the theaters because it was running a close race with mainstream comedies, dramas, and the dreaded "Blair Witch Project", so your best bet is to sit at home with your DVD, and if you don't "get it" the first time... rewind the darn thing!

Maybe Oprah did make a real big deal about it. When she started screaming, "I had my baby!!!!" on the premiere of the movie, that may have cost her some big bucks.  I will say to Oprah, "humble yourself darling... some people find babies ugly".

The cast and directors of "Beloved" captured the raw essence of this masterpiece.  Toni Morrison should be very honored to have an audience that embraced her work.