I'm a geek.  Watching all 18 episodes in two days backs up that statement.  I remember watching this show when NBC had it running back in the 20th century and remember the fury that came over me when it was canceled.  Being a senior in high school today allows me the relate to the characters more than I was able to seven years ago.  If you've ever felt out of place or afraid of being you this show is a reassuring message that you are not alone.

Reviewing this DVD seems unnecessary for the reason that every other reviewer has already praised it enough.  But I want to.  Freaks and Geeks tells of Sam and Lindsay Weir's high school troubles.  Unlike Dawson's Creek or The OC, F&G is so incredibly close to what teens go through, it's scary.  Don't expect cheesy love storys, shootings, or huge cospiracy's, this show provides down-to-earth, realistic high school "drama."  It's easy to see that Paul Feig and Judd Apatow weren't the coolest kids in their days of adolescence.

Lindsay, in her junior year, finds herself questioning her parents, her school and her life.  She tries her luck at joining the school's band of slackers who help change her outlook on life. Sam, a freshman, is introduced to bullys, girls and even greater discrimination than in junior high.

Paul Feig's writing is dead on.  He gives every character a very unique personality that is perfect for their respective clique.  Though the show is primarily a drama, plenty of comedy is thrown in, enough so to label it a "dramedy."  Every episode includes dozens of laugh-out-loud moments.  The crew did a great job with casting.  Each actor is amazing and seems to relate to their character.  Once again, I have to mention how realistic this show is.  The characters deal with the same problems many of us deal with:  loneliness, girls, bullies, gym class.  I wasn't attending high school in 1980, but all of the cultural references seem to be in order.  Rock, disco and Atari all play their roles in the story, which help make everything even more believable.  The music in the show is perfect.  Perfect!  If you listen to anything from the late 70's and early 80's then you will appreciate the music.  Now that I'm done watching the DVD, I'm going to go buy the soundtrack.  They do seem to favor Van Halen though.  My only musical grievance is with the episode "Noshing and Moshing," the punk band playing at the Armpit doesn't come across as an early punk band, but more of a 90's revival band, no big deal though.

Now for some comments of the DVD itself.  The package is wonderful and the booklet is informative.  The special features are simply outstanding.  There are deleted scenes, bloopers, audition tapes, behind the scenes and 29 commentary tracks.  29 commentaries for 18 episodes, now that what I call attention to special features.  The price of $70 may be a bit high, but this is the only place you'll get to see this show, as it is no longer re-run on any channel that I know of.  My finishing argument is this:  If you've ever been left out or picked on in your life, buy this DVD.