After a few of months of working out to the original "Get Ripped" DVD, I felt it was time to move on to a more challenging workout to gain further results. In just one month of using "Get Ripped: Slim & Lean" I have toned up considerably more and my muscles are becoming more defined. I actually enjoy doing this workout more than the former, as not only does it contain more extensive and challenging abdominal work than its precedessor, but most of the accompanying electronica music is actually very good. I especially love the song towards the end of the workout that's playing during the overhead presses and lateral raises.

Jari Love's instruction and queing is so clear and precise. She never wastes time performing silly moves that "look" impressive yet offer little results. In fact, her entire routine serves as proof that a workout can be very challenging and super effective without being difficult to learn or follow along. The basic concept of "Slim & Lean" is the use of light weights (anywhere from 3 to 10 pound dumbells - or you can use a barbell for most of the exercises) while performing very high repetitions of mostly well known exercises (such as squats, lunges, over-head presses, chest presses, bicep curles, hammer curls, etc.) and by varying the speed of the exercises. There are also a lot of pulses and isometic holds performed throughout to create ultra lean, defined muscles. Jari Love's own physique is a testiment to that.

Jari is joined by three background exercisers, including one man, a woman who demonstrates many easier modifications, and another woman who demonstrates some more advanced modifications. This is definitely an intermediate-to-advanced exercise program. While beginners can modify by using very light weights and omit the more difficult pulses, the excess number of repetitions alone may still be too challenging for some. I would recommend that true beginners start with the original "Get Ripped" workout first, which can be more easily modified for a beginner level yet will still keep you feeling quite challenged throughout - then get this DVD once you've mastered the former.

Although I workout using a variety of exercise DVDs, "Slim & Lean" is currently the staple of my exercise program and has given me the overall best results so far. Bonus features include trailers for "Get Ripped," "Get Ripped to the Core" (will be trying that one next!) and an interview with a dietition. Highly recommended!

Rating: Excellent