I enjoyed Comedian for the glimpse of the not-so-public side of Jerry Seinfeld. I admire him for not taking the path of least resistance after his TV show ended. He could have gotten lazy and soft, making the occasional appearance on Leno and People magazine and otherwise doing not much of anything. Instead, he chose to throw away all his old material and undergo the apparently painful process of developing new routines and then polishing them in front of audiences. This film allows you to watch as the jokes don't work, as routines are completely forgotten onstage, as the audience talks and yells through his performance, and as he waits, alone, backstage, a bundle of nervous insecurity and doubt, before his performances. It does not look easy.
The other part of the film that warrants comment is the striving young comic Orny Adams whose struggle to become known is contrasted with Seinfeld, whose enormous popularity precedes him. The contrast is that Seinfeld is generally a very likable guy with a lot of warmth and humanity. His humanity shows not only during his act but offstage, as he speaks to people on the street, is respectful to everyone around him, and listens when other people talk. Orny Adams, by contrast, is a titanically
self-obsessed, massively irritating, bug-eyed motor-mouthed bore. He goes on and on about how talented he is. He complains that even though he is so talented he has to lower himself to actually perform in a comedy festival in Montreal. He obsesses about "what people in LA are saying about me right now...what deals are being made?". He displays for the camera all the notebooks full of jokes that he has written as evidence of the astonishing sacrifices he has made for his career. Excuse me, aren't you a comedian? Your job is to write jokes. Don't expect a medal because you did your job. The most telling and damning moment regarding Orny comes when an acquaintance comes backstage and gives Orny some outstanding advice, i.e. stop being so stridently ambitious and arrogant and let your work speak for itself, and as soon as the guy leaves the room Orny
dismisses the guy as a string of unprintable obscenities.
I realize I have spent a lot of my review focusing on Orny Adams. The film itself is interesting. Seinfeld is a very funny and talented comedian with enormous integrity and a huge work ethic. Orny Adams is profoundly unlikable, maniacally self-absorbed, and he makes me retch. Message to Orny: Go away.