The MOVIE
Taking a different direction than it's 1982 predecessor, this fairly standard, but fondly remembered horror compilation makes up for it's lack of frights with pure entertainment. Lacking much of the E.C. Comics style of the first movie (except for the rather poor animated intermissions) initially takes away some of the charm, but it saves the best for last. 
"Ol' Chief WoodenHead", unanimously agreed to be the weakest of the three stories on offer, is almost saved by a charming yet sad performance by George Kennedy. This is a typical revenge story with not a single interesting or unpredictable twist. Most of the violence takes place off camera, and it is actually a bit of chore to sit through.  
"The Raft" is one of the foremost guilty pleasures in horror. Four friends are stalked by a man(and duck)-eating blob in an off-limits lake. Who will survive? Those familiar with these sorts of moral tales will hardly be surprised by the ending, but will not be any less amused with it's abrupt simplicity. 
In "The Hitchhiker" an annoying, unfaithful woman gets her just desserts, though at the expense of an innocent life. By the end of this story I am always a little bored, probably because the colorful, perfectly-lengthed "The Raft" precedes it, but it is still my favourite. In my opinion it features the most interesting gore effects, and will always be remembered for the hitchhikers immortal, extremely quotable single line of dialogue.
The DVD
As for the DVD itself - this is no special edition, but it's as much as we can expect from a movie such as this. Frankly, we should be grateful it is on DVD at all, and has not been forgotten in the dusty vaults of VHS where it probably belongs. Surprisingly, the widescreen enhanced transfer on offer is extremely clear and mostly scratch-free for a movie of it's age and budget.
The mono sound track on offer is not so impressive, but once again, it could be a lot worse. A movie such as this does not need a 5.1 mix; there are very few opportunities for surround usage - the whole thing is basically dialogue with occasional music to suit the mood.
The extras are basically non-existent, with only a trailer and photo gallery, but at the price this DVD is going at, nobody is really in a position to complain.