One of the great things about an enjoyable independent film is that because of the nature of the beast (budgetary restraints) you can usually expect that the things which make the film enjoyable are the basics : good dialogue, good acting, good direction. "The Tao of Steve" has all of these elements, in addition to a fabulous, under used setting in the earth and sky elements which dominate the city of Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Religious allusions are some of the most popular allusions in all of film and they are abundant in this one. Everything from Buddhism to Taoism to Nihlism to Catholicism is touched upon. It is all done with a degree of both cynicism and reverence. One of the most enjoyable aspects of the film is the intelligence of the writing. The script uses a group of well educated men in their early thirties to illustrate how concepts of ancient religions can be interspersed with ideas of pop culture and courtship in the twentieth century to create a way of life which leads one to the end they desire. Although this works for them for a time, eventually this idea is shown to lead one to what they believe they desire but to fulfill only the most basic of needs. The concept is eventually dismantled through character interaction and dialogue, some of the best examples of the two seen on film in recent years. Particularly impressive is the way the script has one character build up these ideas using the ideas of great writers, thinkers, and religious figures from the past while another character can strike them down with references which are just as literary and relevant. The most impressive part is that these intellectual debates never come off as pretentious, we never feel that the any of the characters are speaking over our heads. With all of the philosophical knowledge that is thrown at us Dex is still our everyman, Syd is still the girl we all had class with in college.
The setting is integral to the story, and the cinematography works to convey the philosohpies which are being addressed. In Santa Fe houses work themselves into the landscape, at the opera Dex's shirt blends him into the scenery, everything in the film blends together and it helps to convey that everything in the world is interelated, no matter how important we think we are we're all a part of the whole. This intergral lesson is what Dex must learn to achieve his goal, and it is conveyed perfectly throughout the film through the cinematography.
In reading the credits one can see the interelatedness of the people who produced this movie and the personal story that the screenwriter told through his script. Watching this film is like having your closest friends over for dinner, sharing your memories and stories of your current lives. The fact that it opens at a reunion is not an accident, and it carries that feeling of warmth, apprehension and coming home throughout. When I finished watching "The Tao of Steve" I wanted to hit rewind and watch the whole thing over again. It is rare that a film encapsulates a feeling of home and at the same time of such grand philosophical truths. But it is the familiarity of the characters which makes these truths and ideas easy to digest, and "The Tao of Steve" such a likeable, easy to watch, thought provoking film.
This film reminded me of "Committed" starring Heather Graham in some ways, with similar settings, similar mystical themes and a feeling of redemption at the end. I would say that "The Tao of Steve" is a better film though because it tells the story in a much more simple, straightforward manner. There is no place in this film for a viewer to get lost, but when given deeper thought, there are incredible areas set up for the viewer to explore.