In Brian DePalma's 1976 film Carrie, we see a socially squeamish teenager named Carrie, played by Sissy Spacek, struggle to fit in at a rather typical high school.  Carrie is blessed or cursed, depending on one's point of view, with telekinetic powers, automatically guaranteeing her communal aloofness.  I think I understand the point that DePalma was trying to make by showing what happens to people when they alienate and ostracize the "different" kid, but why couldn't Carrie have been idolized for her special talent.  Why must movies and books generally give the "freak" person the ultimate revenge against those who have wronged them?  This would make sense in an alternative universe probably where Stephen King wrote lilting love poems and high school was not the microcosmical representation and preparation for society that we later must live in.
 Not that I entirely disliked DePalma's somewhat formulaic approach, or rather King's warped idea of adolescent vengeance, to be precise.  Carrie was indeed a satisfying movie, of which there are precious few these days and another example as to why young audiences today should learn to appreciate the films of the past.  Perhaps it would be even more satisfying on a second viewing, as I really didn't know what to expect on first viewing.
 The orchestral stabs of music accentuate quick camera cuts and add to the tension.  These stabs reminded me of Hitchcock's Psycho shower scene and perhaps it was an homage on DePalma's part as they are used throughout the movie, notably in the last few scenes as Carrie looks around the gymnasium and wills inanimate objects to exact her revenge.  DePalma probably didn't intend for the prom scenes to be humorous, but I couldn't help but find them so.  I suppose that's what twenty years will do to a film or I wonder if audiences in 1976 were shocked and horrified.  Not to say that I didn't enjoy these scenes, I did, for I am a huge fan of Sam Raimi's work in the Evil Dead series of movies, those which combine comedy and horror.  A particularly effective shot in the prom sequence by cinematographer Mario Tosi places William Katt and Sissy Spacek on a spinning platform while the camera is spinning around them simultaneously in the opposite direction.  This subconsciously sets the tone for the rest of the prom sequence as we are about to be forced into a dizzying world of pig's blood and possessed fire hoses.
 Would Carrie have snapped had it not been for her overbearing, Super-Christian mother?  Maybe or maybe not.  Had she a supporting parent to talk to about her troubles at school, would lives had been lost?  Perhaps.  Maybe this was Kings' and DePalma's message with Carrie, that of man versus religion.  Deeper layers of meaning lie beneath the gory surface of  Carrie.  In showing Carrie's physical domination over mother's spiritual zealousness, we, in essence, see a battle between man and God.  It's a battle that man wins ultimately. Even though Carrie also succumbs, she is reborn, in a sense, in the movie's final shot.  Certainly heavier issues appear beneath the surface of the movie when given further thought and consideration, issues such as teen peer pressure, societal structures and the almighty Pecking Order come into play in Carrie.  Also of note is the portrayal of the high school as a microcosm of out society with its clear haves and have nots, weird and normal, and the sacred and profane.  The last of these would at first appear to be evident, but by the end of the movie the line between the sacred and profane becomes blurred and it is up to the viewer to decide who is who.