The reviews I sampled will tell you that this film is overlooked and different in a good way from the bang and sizzle of Hollywood. That's true. They'll also tell you that James Nesbitt burns as the real star of the film. Also true. Very true. But the real power of this film is in the three points of view represented, the cautionary tale of blindness due to one's cause, and the incredible representation of 33 years of un-relationship the two main characters have that explodes in the 5 minutes they spend actually physically together.

To point 1, the screenplay gives us the obvious lines of Joe and Alistair, but also subtly weaves in the perspective of the Truth and Reconciliation crew, who have their own stories and reactions to what's happened, happening, and what they think needs to happen. All three perspectives, to point 2, are myopic in their focus. Joe wants to exact vengeance, Alistair wants to unburden himself of the lie he believes he is living, and the T&R team are after societal goals that seem bigger than the two men. Each would be successful to their own detriment, despite seeking corrective action for the past.

But the biggest of these points is the slow and intense build-up of 33 years of gut-wrenching agony that the two men share having only exchanged a short stare on a dark sidewalk in the midst of horror. Their bond, their un-relationship, is the real story. Most reviewers refer to the climactic scene as the focal point. While it is somewhat cathartic, the story is in the telling of what these men lived with trapped in their own hells of regret, hatred, shame, and grief, inextricably linked to someone they never spoke to. Getting to watch as external forces drew them together, nearly unwillingly, is what kept me riveted. There are masterful moments of direction along the way, and then there is Nesbitt's performance. I am not sure I have seen a more emotionally authentic movie portrayal of grief, rage, and relinquishment. And in the end, it is two short deliveries he makes that are the real climax point of the movie.

If you like movies to challenge your mind and heart, all the while making you appreciate the craft, this is one for you.