I have been a huge Godzilla fan for almost as many years as the Big G has been around.  I remember seeing the first two films (Godzilla-King of the Monsters, and Gigantis the Fire Monster) at the theater when I was quite young, though it may have been during a re-release in the late 50's/early 60's.  And of course on television.  King Kong vs Godzilla, the third film in the series, came to my local theater when I was 9 or 10 years old.  The first Godzilla film in color!  An amazing spectacle to adolescent eyes.  To see my two all-time favorite monsters up there on the big screen duking it out was almost too cool for words (okay, I admit the Kong suit was pretty cheesy-looking, but do you think the kid in me cared about that?  This was the Battle of the Behemoths!).  My local theater back then was just a single screen movie house, and would show the same film twice in one evening - an early show and a later show.  For this film I stayed for both showings (they used to let you do that back then, or if they didn't, I don't recall ever being caught).

For many years I reveled in the memory of that gloriously insane monster mash, catching the movie on TV whenever it would pop up, and of course, snapping up VHS and (later) DVD copies of it when the home entertainment revolution came about.  Being a die-hard G fan, I eventually collected the entire movie series, not to mention a good many Godzilla toys and other mechandise/memorabilia.

I know a great many Godzilla fans will no doubt bash me for this, but in many ways, King Kong vs Godzilla IS my all-time favorie Godzilla film!  I realize that this is probably due to the inner child still residing inside me, but this is the one film out of my entire collection that I have watched more times than I can count.  The one that makes me feel good, gives me silly laughs, and gives me an almost overwhelming sense of nostalgia.  And yes, it is the "butchered" American version of the film to which I'm referring, for it's the one I grew up with.  Somehow in its own weird, nonsensical way, it maintains a cohesive plotline without deviating much into useless narrative or subplot terrotory, as so many Godzilla movies are prone to do.  Of course, I also own a copy of the uncut Japanese version (what sort of Godzilla fan would I be if I didn't?), and while I admit that it probably is  a better film than the American version, it's not the one I return to again and again.  There are many other great films in the series, as well as some not-so-great, and even a few that are decidedly painful to watch.  But even the great ones do not find their way into my DVD player as frequently as this version of KKVG.

There are tons of unforgettable bits in this film.  UN Reporter Eric Carter.  The Amercian submarine approaching the iceberg.  Godzilla emerging from the iceberg.  Godzilla attacking the Arctic military base. The American scientist attempting to identify Godzilla out of a kid's book on dinosaurs (I HAD that book as a kid!).  The octopus attack.  Kong's first appearance.  Kong's raft being blown to bits.  Kong rising from the ocean. Kong and Godzilla's first meeting.  Kong approaching Tokyo.  The final smackdown/battle.  Cheesy costumes! Bad dubbing!  No boring subplots!  Native drums!  Hand puppets!  A guy called Taco!  This movie has it all...

This DVD offers a pretty decent widescreen transfer of a terrific movie, but very little else.  Chapter selections, English subtitles, and a couple of different spoken languages, though NOT Japanese. In all, a pretty bare bones DVD, but still essential to any Godzilla collection (provided you're not a hater of the Americanized version) if only for its widesceen aspect ratio.  Basically, light years ahead of the earlier Goodtimes pan & scan effort for that reason alone.

To me, if ever there was a film that defines the term "popcorn movie" this would have to be it.  I know there are many out there who would disagree, and that's fine.  I'm sure everyone has their own favorite Godzilla movie, and this just happens to be mine.  That is, after all, only my humble opinion.  But after more than a half century of being a Godzilla fan, that's still the opinion by which I stand.  I absolutely love this movie.

Long live Godzilla!  And King Kong Too!