I remember liking the music that Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers made when they first came along.  My rock and roll listening years coincide pretty much with their history.  And I'm from central Florida too, so it made it a little more special I guess that they were a good band.  I remember the buzz that "damn the torpedoes" created when it came out.  So many great songs on one album didn't seem possible.  But to be fair, I didn't try to be an expert on them.  I'm not an expert on much of anything.  But if you were young during the 60's and 70's, and you liked listening to fm radio, then you can better judge my qualifications.  But I do remember an early thought, that Tom Petty sounded like one of Bob Dylan's incarnations.

The biographical movie (the product being reviewed) is good.  It's made in modern times, so you get some good quality sound and video for your home system.  I enjoy this modern way to enjoy rock and roll, and own several other dvd format covers of rock legends.  This one on Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers is a good mix of talk and music.  It's pretty much all positive perspective, so I'd guess it was conceived and financed by themselves (Tom Petty).  That doesn't bother me, because it delivers good entertainment value, and I already liked the music.  I wasn't looking for someone to knock them down anyway.

I'm sort of old now, but I was paying attention when the Beatles were still new and Ed Sullivan was important, "The times, they are a changin" was being covered in all the grade school talent shows, and everyone knew who Roy Orbison was.  So when the Traveling Wilburys popped up, and the album was great....that was a great joy for me.  Tom Petty seems to understand how special that opportunity was for him, which I'm happy to know.

The "other" disc is a concert in Gainesville, Florida.  It features the modern band line up (which is fine).  As a historical document, it's unfortunate that Petty doesn't look well and seems medicated (to me).  Everyone will have their favorite songs, so I won't try to add something meaningful here.  But I will say, I enjoyed watching another concert video from much earlier in their career that was killer.  Search for Santa Monica New Years concert 1978.  The band is really good live.

I got one of those email reminders to go to amazon and review this purchase.  So I'm here, but I can't really offer anything more profound that what others have said.  Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers have released some great songs and albums.  There are unrecognized gems that never get heard.  One of my favorites is their cover of Dylan's "License to Kill" for his 30 year all star concert.  You can watch it on a youtube search.  It really grabs me in a way I can't explain....