How can someone not like these two great movies?  "Ghostbusters" and "Ghostbusters 2" are two of the most entertaining movies you could find, in my opinion.  They include an All-Star cast: Dan Akroyd, Rick Moranis, Bill Murray, Annie Potts, Harold Ramis, Sigourney Weaver, and a host of great side-characters.  You also have the gigantic Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man in "Ghostbusters" and Lord Vigo in "Ghostbusters 2."  Oh, and we can't forget about Slimer!
What makes these movies click is the fact that they can balance humor and horror at the same time.  Bill Murray got all the best lines in both movies, and even when he's been slimed by a ghost or frozen solid by Lord Vigo's control, he still has the willpower to crack a great line.  A personal favorite of mine is when Murray sticks his fingers in the "hip toaster" and then pretends the thing is trying to eat his fingers off.  I just about roll off my couch every time over that one.
Another thing I like about these movies is that all the characters from the first movie were also in the second movie.  You sometimes see in movies how characters change from movie to movie, but everyone assumes their roles in both movies, and that is well appreciated.  I was glad that someone didn't replace Ernie Hudson in his role, for example, since his character was never really fleshed out in the first film and could have easily been expendable.  It was nice to see Akroyd and Ramis, the writers of both films, give him some more meat and potatoes in the second film.
Any fans of Peter MacNicol's character from the TV show "Ally McBeal" will like the quirky character he portrays in "Ghostbusters 2."  He plays the part of thick-accented Janosz Poha, a Carpathian art-restorer who supervises things at a museum and is always pining for Weaver's affection.  He is equal parts goofy and creepy, especially the latter when is taken control of by Lord Vigo.  Every time I see his eyes beam up like flashlights in that red hallway, it sends chills down my spine.
In short, if you are looking for two movies that are equal parts funny and scary, gives this two-volume set a try.  If not, may Slimer's spirit eat you out of house and home.