this movie is a must for die-hard nick cage fans.
i have owned this vhs for years and have watched this film at least a 100 times. this movie is one of my all-time favs. to my great pleasure...the dvd includes a cage commentary track. i have heard nick discuss this movie before in interviews but never in great detail...so its awesome to have him there to offer his thoughts throughout the entire movie. in his commentary he claims to not have seen the film since he made it over 11 years ago. both the directory and cage cite the huge impact that nyc plays in the film and in the life of peter loew. the commentary is pre-9.11 and it would be interesting to see how much more nyc discussion would occur if the cage commentary would have been post-9.11. there are scenes of the now missing wtc towers throughout the film which add even more 'chill' to the movie.
you have to admire cages efforts as a young actor exploring his craft. he sets no limits on himself or his vocation in a quest to define his art. this is particularly evident with the cage commentary on the dvd [ by an older...wiser cage...perhaps a little tainted by the hollywood machine ] his reactions to some of his more 'out-there' and perhaps forgotten [by cage] scenes result in astonishment even by cage himself. he is often unable to explain what he was trying to accomplish or what motivated him to do something or say something in particular. but this is even more reason to admire this film and the effort put forth by cage. its experimental work. its ahead of its time. its pure film at its best. acting for the sake of the art. no hollywood lines. no hollywood budgets. all those involved in the film are there for the love of the art.
the biggest thing that the dvd commentary communicates to me is that this movie is a classic. its a classic because the cage that you see as 'peter loew' no longer exists. cage is still a great actor. probably even a better actor than when vk was made. but the cage that created 'loew' is gone. "am i getting through to you alva!?!"
buy it. watch it. treasure it.