The BBC's mid 1970's 13 part adaptation of Robert Graves novels "I Claudius" and "Claudius, the God" has always been considered to be one of the finest pieces of television ever made (The Bollinger of the Beeb if you like.) and in many ways puts most big budget films to shame. I first saw this when I was about 8 or 9 years old (my parents allowed me to stay up and watch it) and I remember being transfixed by it. Up until then history as it was taught at school was all about cavemen with rocks or pitch battles between army's, quite boring really, but these characters who were ready kill, steal or do what ever was necessary to get and hold on to power really fascinated me. I bought this DVD a couple of months ago, just to have more than anything else, but once I started watching it, the magic started all over again. With the perception of an adult I can see just what a masterpiece this series actually is.
Covering the greater part of reign of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, of the most fascinating periods in history, I Claudius begins 7 years after Octavian's defeat of Marc Anthony and Cleopatra at the battle of Actuim and ends with the accession of Nero. The individual performances from Derek Jacobi as Claudius, stammering his way through life with only the occasional hint of the man beneath, Sian Phillips, as the scheming almost lady Macbeth like Livia and John Hurt's Caligula are all acting master classes. Hurt in particular is in amazing form, many actors have tried to portray the unpredictability and sheer manic insanity of Caligula, but none have come with in spiting distance of Hurt or for that matter any of the three above. This overt display of genius seems to lift the rest of the cast along with them, Patrick Stewart, Brian Blessed, George Baker, Isobel Dean, James Faulkner, Barbara Young, Fiona Walker and Margaret Tyzack, all superb actors and actresses in their own right, give the performances of their careers here.
Although the picture looks slightly crude (not surprising considering that it was shot on video rather than film), the soundtrack is almost nonexistent and the sets look Spartan by the standards set by modern cinema (compare the palaces in here with those in Gladiator to see what I mean), yet despite these shortcomings, the viewer very quickly looks beyond that as he or she is carried away by the truly engrossing story and magnificent performances of all concerned, approach this more as a stage play than a movie and you'll get the idea. Ok so, authorised history is sacrificed in favour of a good story, although Robert Graves himself always claimed it was accurate based on a manuscript he discovered in the aftermath of World War 1, what we have here are the back stairs whispers and not the facts as set down in the history books. But isn't the servants gossip is always much more juicy and often far more revealing than the press release?