I just watched the film on pay-per-view cable TV. There are some things about it that are clearly impossible, and not difficult for anybody to verify who wants to satisfy him/herself that the "last testament" tape of George Harrison is phoney.

In this "documentary", it is alleged that the cover photo on the Rubber Soul album was distorted to conceal the fake Paul ("Faul")'s face. Supposedly, this must have happened after November 1966, when, according to the film, Paul died. But Rubber Soul was released in December 1965 in Great Britain when, according to the film, the real Paul still had 11 months left to live.

Ditto for the withdrawn album cover photo for the US release Yesterday and Today: the film alleges that raw meat and baby dolls are shown as references to Paul's death, but the album was released in June 1966, five months before Paul allegedly died.

And the film says the album cover for Revolver used a drawing instead of a photo to conceal the inexact likeness of the new fake Paul, but Revolver was released in August 1966, three months before Paul supposedly died according to the film.

These album release dates are not obscure - go look them up yourself:

[...]

Any 10-year-old with normal intelligence could easily have verified these facts. That Joel Gilbert did not bother to do so can only be taken as an insult to the intelligence of his audience, unless the  film is supposed to be a spoof, and its inaccuracies are intended to be so obvious that they are funny. But the film doesn't come across as a spoof, and I didn't think it was funny.

The fake "George" gives himself away by his pronunciation and expressions. The first clue I noticed was the pronunciation of "Berkshire". The person speaking on the tape pronounces it "Burkshir", as an American who is trying to sound British would. The British pronunciation sounds more like "Barkshir". "George" also refers to "Berkshire, England". This coupling of the names of towns, cities or counties with their states or countries is a feature of American speech. A British person would regard the recitation of the state or country as redundant and unnecessary, and would be afraid of insulting his audience by suggesting the listener does not know that Berkshire is in England. For example, a British person would never say "Paris, France" like an American would. If asked why, the British person would say "Of course Paris is in France!" The purported "George" of the tape does this again when he refers to "Minneapolis, Minnesota". I can't think of a town or city called Minneapolis that exists anywhere in the world but in Minnesota. OF COURSE Minneapolis is in Minnesota.

If Paul McCartney doesn't sue Joel Gilbert, I can only guess it is because Paul figures he has enough money already and a lawsuit would only create free publicity which this pathetic film definitely does not deserve.