The Godfather wasn't just about gun toting gangsters.  If it were, it wouldn't put to shame every other mafia style movie in existence today, as it has.  This movie is a story of epic proportions.  The film opens up at a wedding reception for the daughter of a major crime family in New York.  The movie goes on to depict the life and times of Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando); From his rise to power, to his death, and then to the passing of the name "Don" to his son Michael (Al Pachino).  
It's not often that a film intertwines as many plots and subplots, as well as "The Godfather" has does.  Strong writing, directing, and acting also contribute to the success of the film.  This movie was not just put together overnight.  It was painstakingly crafted as to make it as realistic as possible.  Every character, even the minor ones were molded to be as complex as possible.  They were each given individual backgrounds, character, and little clicks that push this movie above and beyond and five stars.  
The Corleone that ended up getting the most time on screen was Michael.  Which might have been a sign for the future.  The Godfather 2 was almost entirely based around Michael and his family.  In the Godfather the movie is a build up to the rise and fall of Vito, but always having Michael as an underlying theme.  Michael started the movie as a good, law-abiding citizen.  In fact he was a war hero in world war two.  At first he wanted nothing to do with the "family business".  But as the movie progressed he got more and more intertwined with the family and ended up killing two men.  He then left the country.  At that point there was no return to normal life for him.  He was now dodging hits left and right, doing anything he could just to stay alive.  But soon he began to love it and thrive off of it.  After his father died he became the "Don" and started taking charge of the family.  
This movie in my book is worthy of much more than five stars.  It is a classic that deserves recognition.  If you ever get a chance to view it definitely check it out.  If you are not satisfied, I will take your copy.  J  
David Johnson