When the Marx Brothers came to MGM in 1935, boy wonder producer Irving Thalberg had the good commercial sense to package them in a genuine musical comedy which widened their box office appeal enormously although it detracted from the pure gold of their earlier anarchic Paramount comedies.

"A Day at the Races" followed the formula of the hugely successful "A Night at the Opera", but it was was the beginning of the end of their golden period. The problem is simply that while the boys are very good,  there is just not enough of them and in inverse proportion, a dumb love story with the charming Allan Jones and the equally charming but sappy Maureen O'Sullivan. Also, there is a notable softening of their  characters, particularly Harpo and that diminishes them.

The film also has 2 major production numbers - one is a dud balletic number but the other is another matter altogether. Just as you begin to cringe at the black stereotypes, a slim girl with a tantalising voice appears and, unbelievably, it is the famous jazz singer Ivie Anderson, with Duke Ellington's band backing and unbilled. Don't miss this historic glimpse of a really great black singer.

Having said that, most people who read this review will know the delights on offer, the Tootsie Fruitsy Ice cream routine for example. The package contains an excellent print and there are some very good extras. The commentary from Marx Brothers author Glenn Mitchell is full of background information which in fact becomes frustrating as Mitchell points out many discontinuities due to cuts. It seems the cuts were mainly on the boys' routines and maybe that was what upset the balance on offer. The package also includes a documentary which is most interesting with its clips of an elderly O'Sullivan and at its worst with the dreadful Dom DeLuise. A droll Robert Benchley short is OK but the cartoons are dated and dull. Best of all is an audio outake of Allan Jones singing "The Man in the Moon".  Jones had a beautiful tenor and it is a pity the song was not retained because it is infinitely more melodic than the overlong ballet which remains.

This DVD is good value.