The Legend is back, in another spectacular triumph for the Wachowski brothers. They were the exact right choice to write and direct this resurrection of essentially a simplistic early-anime kiddie cartoon from my childhood. Within the context of what they had to work with, the results were better than one might expect; they pulled off a completely original re-telling of the franchise story line, while staying at the same time completely faithful to the original family-values sensibilities of it.

There was stellar casting, lots of action, humor and drama, a compelling story line with an interesting subplot, an unprecedented CGI environment for the racing action, and even hints of a post-apocalyptic future, while staying non-violent, and kid-friendly throughout. Adults have to put up with a little too much Spridle and ChimChim, kids have to try and sort out complex flashback time distortions, so the minor annoyances balanced each other out, and were worth it in their appeal to both types of audiences.

The whole "art-direction" vibe was very early seventies, neatly contrasted with a technologically-sophisticated near future. The Blu-ray disc that I viewed was as good, maybe better visually, than anything I have watched on my PS3, and the surround sound encoding on it was nothing short of spectacular, from the racing car sounds to the brilliantly updated theme song/soundtrack. Even the final credit thing/closing song were somewhat entertaining, for once, with the chimp jamming recklessly on a go-cart to a fun type of hip-hop song.

They pretty much covered the whole 36-episode storyline, so there will either be no sequel, or they will have to write some brand new material for the franchise. I think that puts them in a similar position to the one they were in after they made the first Matrix film, as they have a very hard act to follow, but the Wachowskis were obviously inspired when they wrote this screenplay, so there's hope for more high-quality, family-friendly drama, action, and comedy from this long-standing franchise.

I will admit that if the the connection to my childhood wasn't involved, I would be rating this movie four stars. But if you're a fan of the original from past years gone by, the rating stands!