Like many of the other reviewers, I have suffered through crocodilian horror films such as Primeval and Alligator, so I have to say that I went into this movie with very low expectations. I was happily proven wrong after the two hour movie was over. The man vs. nature genre has been widely popular ever since Steven Spielberg's Jaws in 1975. The qualities, the monster, the special effects--were all bad; however, because of the time it was released, this movie has been embraced as a timeless classic. In spite of the growing technology we have today, few have been able to match Spielberg's efforts in creating a decent horror film and this is one of them. The plot line of Rogue is realistic. There are no crocodiles galloping across the African Plains in pursuit of the cameraman and no alligators living in Chicago being fed by dogs that have been injected with a growth hormone. There is a realistic cast of characters on a river boat in the Northern Territory of Australia including: the captain, an American travel writer, an Irish woman, an American couple, a British family, and two locals. As they cruise the river looking for crocodiles they have to veer off in response to a flare spotted a few miles upriver. As they are traveling, they are suddenly rammed by something and water pours into the boat.  Panicked, they crash the boat onto a small island and step out.  That is the plot. Soon they discover that they are in a large, rogue croc's territory and soon their island haven will be underwater. They have to act fast. The film features normal people using items that would always be found on a boat to try to escape (i.e. life jackets, anchor, first aid kit, rope.) That is, there is no rocket scientist creating a jet pack with a pair of pliers and the wet boat battery. The plans are realistic, as is the fatigue shown by the characters after they have been on the island for several hours.  After night fall, their situation continues to deteriorate as they have lost all hope and no longer have a hold of their emotions. Without spoiling too many details, I will say that it is a realistic story line. Once it begins, the story moves quickly. One thing that I think adds to movie is the fact that the audience does not see the great animal until an hour into the film. In this movie, people are disappearing and the most the audience will see is a glimpse of its tail and a trace of blood. The mystery (for both audience and cast) is what makes this movie monster terrifying for the beginning of the movie. No one knows exactly how big the creature is. This is an area where most of these Animal Horror films fail because they immediately show you the animal (which is completely fake-looking) and the mystery is gone. In those instances, people spend most of their time making fun of the film--as opposed to really being `anxious' for the characters' well-being. Obviously, the crocodile in Rogue is an unrealistic size and has an unrealistic appetite, but moviegoers come to expect that in this popular genre. For the most part, the crocodile's behavior is accurate (except for the fact that crocodiles are cold-blooded so they need to be warmed by the sun and most of the film takes place in the evening hours). I worked at the Saint Augustine Alligator farm for several years and have observed the behaviors of Salt-water crocodiles for a long time. There is not a crocodile on this planet that is capable of swallowing an adult human being whole. A crocodile's teeth are used for tearing chunks of meat off by doing a death roll. While the Rogue crocodile's lair was completely fake, large crocodiles are known to store large kills under logs or up shallow creeks if they are unable to finish the kill.  Crocodilians do watch potential prey items and learn their habits, as well. The live footage of real crocodiles helped the film because it gave people a realistic view of the animal's power and size before plunging the characters into a sci-fi nightmare. Compare and contrast, if you will. All in all, I was pleasantly surprised with this movie and am happy to have it in my collection. It is definitely worth it to watch this film--especially for those of you that have seen Primeval or Alligator. This movie will restore the hope that you have in this popular genre.