First of all, this movies is not for the whole family. It is not for religious people, people easily offended by nudity, language, and/or gore, and people who really have it out for Keanu Reeves.  That being said, "The Devil's Advocate" is a modern epic which probes the nature of evil incisively. Of course, Keanu Reeves is not a great actor, but the role is written (much as the Matrix was written), to minimize his impact on the film and allow true actors and actresses, in this case Al Pacino and Charlize Theron to shine. The film details the descent into darkness of Kevin Lomax (Reeves), a small-town lawyer without much in the way of conscience, and not coincidentally an unblemished court record and his lively wife Mary Ann (Theron) after accepting John Milton (Pacino)'s offer to move to New York City and work for his law firm. Though both his wife and himself sense that all is not right in this alien world of power, sex, and money, Kevin is quickly absorbed by an obsession to win that separates him from his wife and sends them both on parallel tracks into evil. Always at Kevin's side is the suave, down-to earth Milton, who subtly prods him towards evil with a few words when needed. Though Reeves plays the central character, Pacino is certainly the most interesting and amusing of the cast. Just as the role of Lomax was written to fit Keanu Reeves, so the role of the ironically named John Milton (author of the classic Paradise Lost) was written to mesh nearly perfectly with Pacino. Theron shows her rather impressive acting ability in her role as the frustrated, frightened, and isolated wife, and the supporting cast doesn't trip up the film, which is pretty much all that can be asked of it. The film proceeds slowly but steadily through the first 2 hours, but the final half-hour that it builds to is truly awe-inspiring. The showdown between the infinitely calm and clever Pacino and the pissed-off, desperate, Reeves is a scene that really lets Pacino loose, and the twist at the end is a great surprise that few see coming and is more satisfying than other, more contrived endings. This film is not R-rated for the sake of being R-rated. Unlike other films, Devil's Advocate uses nudity, language, and violence to press its point. Without them, the film would take a serious hit in both plausibility and performance. Pacino's monologues are classics in themselves, namely the one prior to Eddie Barzou's death and the longer, more extravagant one at the climax. Reeves' emotions are semi-believable, and can we really expect more? Theron demonstrates why she deserves the leading roles she receives today. Finally, after the film your mind will be charged up and full of questions you can mull over for days, and its ability to create ideas and new concepts are what puts it head and shoulders above the ordinary class of films that entertain but do not make you think, at best.