Okay, on the neutral side we have citations of DW Griffith's story development and the innovation of the close-up as a film-centric emotional technique. As a purely technological landmark of 'firsts', I can understand it occupying a place in the hearts of film historians.

On the negative side we have citations of this film being the inspiration of a reinvigorated KKK that resulted in the riling up of bloodthirsty white mobs and the brutal murder of uncounted black people. This film can be directly credited with inspiring the adoption of cross burning as a terror tactic of the KKK. Prior to this film, the KKK did NOT burn crosses. However, after seeing the film, William J. Simmons, the re-invigorator of the KKK decided to 'borrow' that striking symbolism from the film and the two are now inextricably linked. To some degree, modern audiences are asked, unfairly, to divorce the cause from the effect.

Also on the negative side is the questionable accuracy of the myths and stereotypes presented in the film, and the fact that history has not been kind. "Birth Of A Nation" has not aged well. Compare it to some of its contemporaries (Oscar Micheaux films come to mind), and it's clear that "The Birth Of A Nation" is fundamentally powered only by the fumes of it's own controversy.

On the positive side (if you will allow one) is the fact that it's just a film. It's 90 years old and is barely watchable for those of us who are not students of film. Were it not for the racial controversy, this would likely be forgotten.

Should it be banned? No.

Should it be protested? Sure. Why not? Protesting a work does not extinguish its voice.

Should it be applauded? I'll leave that to those who care to applaud 90 year old films and to racist sociopaths who see fit to applaud virtually anything that defames black people (and we all know that such people exist).

Is it "racist"? Yes. This is a classic example of deliberately promoting inaccurate racial stereotypes. Many of the persistent film typecasting used to assault the sensibilities of black people today can be traced back to this film. DW Griffith didn't invent the "Sambo", the "Coon", the "Tragic Mulatto" or the "Savage Negro", but here is where we see them gathered, for the first time as a superstar cast, on film (forget, for a moment, that they are actually portrayed by white actors in blackface).

Should black people be offended? I don't see a solid basis for offense. On the contrary, I think this film exists as a tool that intelligent Black people can wield to great ideological effect. The power lies in the ability to collect the voluminous examples of racist propaganda and weave a compelling tapestry to demonstrate the great historical hurdles that black people have surmounted.

So, the question becomes 'does this film have value today?', to which I respond, "Well, that depends."

This film stands as a valuable depiction of the roots of racial stereotyping and racial propaganda. The alert viewer will see the genesis of recurring racist themes throughout the history of Hollywood. From "The Birth Of A Nation" to "Dolemite" to Steven Seagal's "Marked For Death" to "Homey Da Clown" and even "Barbershop". Spike Lee attempted to address this legacy in the well-intentioned but unsuccessful "Bamboozled". This film is also valuable because it provides important subtext to the struggles for dignity as typified by Fannie Lou Hamer; Marcus Garvey; Martin Luther King, Jr; Malcolm X; Paul Robeson, etc. There's a goldmine of untapped opportunity here, just waiting for someone to uncover it.

On the other hand, good luck sitting through it. The unskilled acting (using stage techniques for film) render it almost comical. This is a great film for students (and sociopaths who are seeking validation for their racial pathologies), but for the bulk of the world's population, I suspect this wouldn't be sorely missed if it were to deteriorate on the back shelf of some old forgotten library.