Film: Charlie St. Cloud
Director: Burr Steers
Writers: Craig Pearce, Lewis Colick
Cast: Zac Efron, Charlie Tahan, Amanda Crew, Kim Basinger, Donal Logue, Ray Liotta, Dave Franco
Year: 2010

Charlie St. Cloud is a film that wants to be everything. It wants to be a grief drama. It wants to be a romance. It wants to be film about the bond of brotherhood. It wants to be a film about sailing. It wants to be a supernatural drama. It wants to be a comedy. It wants to be a melodrama. Is Charlie St. Cloud anything of those things: the answer is maybe. Sure all of those elements are present in the picture, but none of them are fully developed to truly connect. Based on the novel The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud by Ben Sherwood, Charlie St. Cloud misses the sweet, tender nature of the Sherwood's writing and the awe that lays in the center of his novel.

The story revolves around Charlie (Zac Efron, Me & Orson Welles), a promising young sailor whose life is put on perpetual hold when he causes the car accident that kills his younger brother Sam (Charlie Tahan, Nights in Rodanthe). With his mother (Kim Basinger, L.A. Confidential) devastated and leaving town, Charlie, runs off into the woods to encounter Sams ghost, promising him that he will continue playing baseball with him every night at dusk. Years pass and Charlie works at the cemetery where Sam is buried to fulfill his promise, when he meets the beautiful young sailor, Tess (Amanda Crew, Sex Drive). Through that relationship he starts to question that if living a secluded life in "the in-between" is really whats best for him or if finally letting go is what he needs to do.

As you can tell from the plot of the film, there is a lot going on. The supernatural aspects nearly sink the story into sappy melodrama and quite honestly don't make much sense. The scenes of grief and the effect that Sam's death has on his family, especially, Charlie, are well done but sadly there aren't enough of them to fully resonate. The one aspect of the film that really does connect is that of Charlie and Tess' romantic relationship. It's the strongest plot point until a third acts emotional reveal threatens to destroy the entire structure.

Regardless of the scripts schizophrenia, the film is, shockingly, held together by Zac Efron's strong performance. Coming a long way from his work in High School Musical and 17 Again (which was also directed by Burr Steers), Efron is showing real range as an actor. He has the good looks (which the camera relishes) and the charm and charisma to be a true leading man. He creates a very honest and true emotional arch for Charlie and does connect well on screen. The same can be said for Amanda Crew. She has a light and natural screen presence that helps add to the believability of the romance.

Since the film never actually picks one genre, the emotional weight of the story is pat. The cinematography is beautiful and Efron's performance is worth a look for sure, but there really is not much else to take away from this, inoffensive, but ultimately uninteresting picture. Younger, undemanding, easily manipulated audience members will certainly take to the film, but anyone looking for an emotionally complex study on grief and family will need to see Ordinary People instead.

Rating: C