If you are expecting a send-up of the classic 1970's cop-show with side-splitting humor, that's not what you're gonna get. Instead, this movie remake of Starsky and Hutch places the emphasis on action and, as such, is more of an action flick than a comedy. Although this might not be what you'd expect from a movie with Stiller and Wilson, an excellent storyline and well-developed characters make this movie a real pleasure to watch.

 The storyline involves the two detectives on the case of a drug-dealer who has a formula that makes cocaine undetectable. This particular concept is thoughtful and highly original. Starsky (Stller) and Hutch (Wilson) rely on underworld connection, Huggy Bear (played gracefully by Snoop Dogg) and detective work to put the pieces together. And, while a lot of the detective work is silly, it won't have you rolling on the floor like some of Stiller and Wilson's previous outings.

 I would point out, however, that if you are a Starsky and Hutch "purist" (if there is such a thing?) that quite a few liberties were taken with some characters. First off, while the Dogg plays Huggy Bear as some kind of underworld kingpin, I remember the original Huggy Bear as being more of a street-urchin. Kind of a low-class hustler. Also, I remember the original Hutch (David Soul), as being more sullen and brooding as opposed to the laid-back way that Wilson plays Hutch.

 These liberties taken with the characters still do not detract from the movie in any way. The only original character that is true to form is Doby, who would always chew-out Starsky and Hutch for unorthodox police work.

 There is plenty action here, which is the movie's strongsuit. Firefights, carchases and undercover work add excitement to the mix. Ultimatley, the movie is highly enjoyable. At one point, Starsky even tries to "land" the famous red Gran Torino on a yacht (don't ask).

 I would, however, point out that the Anal-Retentive Cop and the laid-back partner is not 100% original. The same plan was used in the 1980's remake of Dragnet featuring Tom Hanks and Dan Ackroyd. For that I would deduct a half-star. Another half-star is taken away from the general lack of focus on the 1970's settings. I really can't explain this, except by saying that some movies (ie: Boogie Nights) genuinely make you "feel" like you're back in the 70's. Just like the "Doors" made you feel like you were in the 60's. Anyway, I digress. An enjoyable, if not lampoonish movie. 4 stars.