There are bad movies, and then there are BAD movies.  Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a bad movie.  The Anniversary Party is a BAD movie.
 The Anniversary Party comes along making assertions of importance and claiming to present a serious social statement, but fails even to simply entertain.  Bad movies seem to know they're bad; they have no such delusions of grandeur, but are often mildly amusing if nothing else.
 The Anniversary Party, written and directed by Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh, who also star in the film, is 115 minutes of pure, excruciating boredom.  The movie involves, obviously, an anniversary party for Hollywood couple Joe and Sally Therrian (Cumming and Leigh), whose marriage is anything but stable, and spans a period of approximately 24 hours.
 The Therrians are joined at their feeble bash by Cal and Sophia Gold (Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates), Mac and Clair Forsyth (John C. Reilly and Jane Adams), Skye Davidson (Gwyneth Paltrow), and Ryan and Monica Rose (Denis O'Hare and Mina Badie).  We find eventually that Davidson is the star of Joe's new movie, that Cal Gold is co-starring with Sally in some other movie directed by Mac Forsyth, and that the Roses are the Therrian's disgruntled neighbors.
 The Anniversary Party is bad from the very beginning.  The audience is thrust into the lives of people they don't know and introduced to new characters without actually learning anything about them.  I was able to gather that these people are rich, and presumably famous, but at no point did I feel connected to any of them in any way.  In my mind, one sign of a good movie is when it sucks you in, so to speak, and you care what happens to the characters and you forget about real life for a little while.  I couldn't shake the painful feeling that I couldn't care less about these characters.  And therein lies the problem with The Anniversary Party: the characters are all there is.  There is no significant action, no plot to speak of, and only one setting.  With characters the audience cannot identify or connect with, this movie has nothing going for it.
 The party itself is bad.  Nothing exciting happens, except when everyone takes some ecstasy about an hour into the film.  But at that point, it's way too little too late.  I went from feeling like I was at a boring party where I didn't know anyone to feeling like I was the only sober person at a party full of a bunch of drunk people I didn't know.  The characters were giggling about things that weren't funny, which only annoyed me as I sat wishing the movie actually was funny.
 The movie itself even looks bad.  It was shot entirely using digital cameras, which gives the movie its weak appearance, as the filming appears constantly unsteady and amateur, and the colors are drab.  The Therrian's home is beautiful, but is wasted as a set on this disaster.
 Even the messages presented in The Anniversary Party are bad.  All Hollywood men are egocentric pricks and Hollywood women are neurotic and obsessively skinny.  So what?  That story has been told countless times in ways far more powerful than this.  Those Hollywood-types do drugs, too.  Uh-oh!  Again, I got the feeling of "been there, done that better."  Sophia Gold even, at one point, tells Sally she should not have kids because they rob you of the option of suicide.  Kids are a joy and a privilege, not a burden binding you to continue to live.
 The Anniversary Party is almost entirely without positives, but not quite.  It is well acted; no one turns in horrible performances by any means, but the greatest acting in the world could not have made this script worthwile.  Gwyneth Paltrow is pretty, and I liked Phoebe Cates, though not for any good reason.  But as it happens, Paltrow isn't good looking enough to carry a boring film, and Cates has the line about her kids robbing her of the option of suicide, almost negating the vague positives of both.  On the plus side, the film did allow me to focus my attention for an extended period of time on thoroughly cleansing my nostrils through the alternate use of each index finger.
 Toward the end of the movie, Joe gets a phone call and finds out his sister has died.  I think that was my favorite part of the movie; his sadness felt like some small retribution for making me sit through this movie.  The audience then watches the Therrians sign their tax returns.  Yes.  As if this somehow constitutes entertainment.
 I wanted to storm out of this movie after 20 minutes; I could tell that quickly that The Anniversary Party was going to be disapppointing.  Instead, I stayed, and it made for two of the more mind-numbing hours of my life.  The film was supposed to be a quasi-touching depiction of the interactions of a group of celebrity friends.  If those are the lives "people like that" truly lead, then count me out.  I left the theater happy that I could switch off the miserably boring, superficial existence depicted in The Anniversary Party.  But more than anything, I left thinking, "That was a BAD movie."