For everything Jurassic Park did for combining the computer and motion picture industries in 1993, The Lost World does seem like a big let down four years later. Lost is the wonder and amazement of seeing humans and dinosaurs co-exist in the same film. Gone is the feeling of newness, only to be replaced with wanting more-ness (sorry, making words up here). Jurassic Park was a brand new puppy - energetic and fun, leaving you wanting more. The Lost World is that puppy that you have to train and house-break. That sense of wonder has all but disappeared.
With that said, The Lost World is not a bad movie. In fact, it's above average compared to movies made today. A general rule of thumb with sequels is that a "good" sequel is something that adds to the story, that actually does pick up where it's previous installment left off. Many sequels are just the original all over ago, but bigger and louder. The Lost World is a combination of both. Our hero, Ian Malcom (Jeff Goldblum), has to go on another island with more dinosaurs and less safety to stop greedy animal trappers from getting to the dinos first. There is a lot of "been there, done that" with The Lost World - the T-Rex poking its head inside a tent felt an awful lot like another movie and a T-Rex poking its head inside a jeep, and the running away from the raptors was nearly identical to the first visit to the Park. But there is good stuff here. A scene in which a trailer our heros are in gets knocked off the side of the cliff and Julianne Moore is left on the windshield of the vehicle is able to one-up Jurassic Park's most tense scene. And the ending makes you sit up and go ah-ha. Although if you put a lot of thought into this movie, you will find it incrediably unbelievable. But this is a movie that is just a popcorn flick and, if it were not a follow up to the first JP, could have, and probably would have, been better recieved.
However, one thing I do want to point out is that I think was a terrible mistake by the filmmakers was the inclusion of Malcom's daughter. She is played by an African-American, and although the subject of an inter-racial relationship between father and daughter, and ultimately father and mother, isn't played out, her inclusion leaves you with a two-part "So What?" question. It seems as if Speilberg was thinking about making a social statement on the subject of inter-racial relationships, but because he doesn't, you say "So what - why is his daughter African American in the first place?" and "So what - why is she even there?" The character really serves no purpose, except to be another excuse to get off the island. Hopefully I've worded this right so I don't offend anyone, that's not my intentions. But I feel that this is a major flaw in the already flawed movie. However, that being said, because this is a flawed movie doesn't make it any less fun.