Dismissed for over a half-century as one of movie director John Ford's "lesser" films, a handsome new Blu-Ray release of The Horse Soldiers now allows viewers to freshly rediscover a long-undervalued classic from America's finest film director.

Despite reasonable reviews and being one of the top grossing films of 1959, the movie has never gotten much critical respect. Film critic Lindsay Anderson slammed the film as "a commercial concoction" and critiqued the acting as "never more than serviceable". Ford biographers regularly overlook the film.

As a master American storyteller, Ford was, throughout his long career, fascinated with the nature of American myth making and the creation of history as a historical narrative. Ford recognized that our history is manufactured by dominant cultural forces (like the Hollywood movie industry), and thus fallible and open to interpretation. As he grew older, he continued to reframe American history, reviewing a past that he had in no small part contributed to the creation of, looking at cherished American myths with an increasingly revisionist eye.

Based on an actual event that occurred in 1863 known as Grierson's Raid, ex-railroad builder John Marlowe (John Wayne) leads his union troop deep into Confederate territory, all the while feuding with his West Point-graduate company doctor Major Kendall (William Holden). Along the way, they take into custody Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers), a Southern Belle who has overheard their plans and threatens to expose them.

Wayne's goal is to lead his men undetected through Southern countryside, capture and destroy the critically important railroad junction of Newtown Station, and then guide his men to safety. Discovery means death on the battlefield or capture and slow starvation at the notorious southern military prison of Andersonville. As the troop make their way across the confederate-held landscape, the enemy forces rally and begin to converge on them, making their escape increasingly problematic.

Beneath the structure of this fast-moving but conventional narrative, Ford introduces a much more contentious issue: civilians and their role in modern warfare. Ford places his characters in the position of facing a series of opposing ethical dilemmas. Like the characters in the movie, or citizens in time of war, we viewers are faced with moral quandaries that bring into question fundamental beliefs we may hold towards authority, war and historical narrative.

The Civil War is widely thought to be western civilizations first "modern" war; the level of carnage and brutality showered upon participants due to advancements in weaponry shocked not only American's on both sides of the conflict, but also European military observers. The war's brutalization went far beyond involving combat troops; large swaths of civilian populations, particularly in the Southern states, faced a scale of violence and deprivation that was unprecedented. Scarcities caused by union blockades, mass starvation of cites under siege, targeted destruction of Southern infrastructure, and civilians regularly caught between the bullets of opposing combat forces, broadened the scope of death and destruction. The modern era of "total war": conflict that involved both soldiers and non-combatants had begun.

Marching southward, Wayne's union soldiers destroy all supplies they can't use, in order to deprive the Southern population, both non-combatants and soldiers, of sustenance. When the troop captures two southern deserters and their prisoner, the local sheriff, Hanna and her captors see first-hand the breakdown of civilian authority in an increasingly lawless land. As in areas of military conflict today, war undermines traditional authority, leaving a dangerous vacuum. Should America support corrupt, established regimes or embrace the uncertainty of political change? Should Marlow honor the deserters as newly minted sympathizers to the northern cause or free the old sheriff, the legal enforcer of the flawed southern social order? Marlow frees the sheriff and turns the deserters over to him, choosing to support traditional southern authority---flawed as it is--- over the deserters and the imminent cultural change they foreshadow.

Wayne's character John Marlow embodies many elements of Ford's American ideal: the civilian soldier whose position in the army---and in the world at large--- is achieved exclusively through ability and merit. In peacetime a self-trained railroad builder, he is here tasked with destroying the very same objects he dedicated his life creating.

As a wartime officer he uneasily straddles two worlds: that of civilian and of professional soldier. During their journey south, he is caught between the values of his companions: the highly educated and West Point-trained Major Kendall and Southern Belle Hanna Hunter, whose innocence and naivety to the bloody realities of war mirror the viewers. Like director Ford, a World War II veteran injured during The Battle of Midway, Marlow knows first-hand the difference between the myth of glorious combat and the bloody reality.

Pulled from the comfort of her Southern plantation and a romantic view of the Southern cause, Hanna quickly comes face-to face with the grim realities of war. In quick succession she witnesses a bloody massacre, the death of a young men, and the senseless loss of her loyal companion to a Confederate sniper's bullet. As she gets to know her Union captors, not as faceless occupiers but as individuals, her previously held moral clarity fades. Good men on both sides die bravely and for causes they believe in. Who is right and who is wrong? What cause is worth such a high cost?

Holden's character is by training both a professional physician and soldier. Within his two careers is an obvious contradiction: a man of war who has taken an oath of allegiance to his nation and a healer who has pledged to uphold the Hippocratic oath. The healer resents Marlow for putting soldiers in harms way. How can these contradictions be resolved?

A secondary theme evident in The Horse Soldiers is one more regularly associated with the films of director Howard Hawks: the role of professionals and the place of civilians, or what a Hawksian hero would derisively call "amateurs". Throughout the film, the character of Cornel Secord, an opportunistic officer who bought is commission and who lusts for a post-military career in politics is constantly calculating the impact any military action might have on his future political career. His self-serving choices are always to the detriment of the troop, and the greater war effort, a reminder that war requires individual desires to be subservient to the greater good. An amateur warrior among professionals, he is derided by Marlow and reminds us that civilian meddling in military affairs is as common and constant as warfare itself.

Marlow is also harshly dismissive of the physician Kendall, refusing to acknowledge the professionalism of all physicians. As a self-trained citizen-warrior, he fails to respect book-learned soldiers like the West Point-trained Kendall. Here Marlow reflects a view widely held in popular American culture: a deep-rooted suspicion of knowledge gained through the filter of any established institution, a viewpoint not unlike what our reformation-influenced founders felt towards organized religion or many citizens today feel towards our national government.

How then, does Ford resolve these many questions? He can't. War, with its many causes and many variations, is irresolvable as a moral issue.

For the raid participants, modest insights emerge from the fog of war. Hanna comes to experience and appreciate the humanity of her captors. Kendall comes to respect Marlow, both as a soldier, and a man. Marlow comes to accept that Kendall's medical professionalism must at times place him in conflict with his values as a military commander, and this critical piece of morality can't be lost in time of war. Like the soldiers who makeup the army they oppose, both men do their duty, upholding oaths of allegiance to their nations or, in the case of Kendall, the Hippocratic oath.

Ford's conclusion is that of a seasoned combat professional. As long as men and soldiers do their duty, there will be war. During war, professionals of various disciplines must behave professionally and respect each other. As long as men and soldiers retain their professionalism, the possibility of mutual respect between enemies leading to some kind of eventual understanding remains.

About the DVD
From his early days as a director of silent films, Ford was an enthusiastic devotee of location shooting; many of his best-known works were placed in the vast stretches of the American west's iconic Monument Valley. The Horse Soldier stands out among Hollywood Civil War films for its extensive use of authentic southern terrain (much of the film was shot on location in Louisiana). The woods, water, and pastoral farmland the soldiers pass through are clearly the real thing. Ford uses the widescreen image in its entirety, creating broad portraits filled with lines of advancing cavalry across gorgeous southern terrain. Most of the exterior scenes were shot on location in Louisiana, and add greatly to the film's verisimilitude. In Ford's Monument Valley westerns, he consciously replicated the color and composition of Frederick Remington's western landscapes. Here, the color palette Ford and cinematographer William Clothier use evokes the greenery and composition of New England artist Winslow Homer's civil war-era watercolors.

Editing is generally snappy and quick, and there are several terrific action sequences involving the real actors, not stunt doubles, performing on their horses. Was Wayne really that good of a rider? After carefully observing him in this movie, I'd say he was pretty good.

There are also a handful of emotionally moving scenes where Ford falls back on the lessons of silent filmmaking and lets his camera run, in close-up, trusting the eyes of his actors to convey reams of unspoken dialogue and interior emotion.

The source material for the film transfer looks to have been a high-quality 35mm IP, although there are a handful of shots that are flat and grainy, suggesting the inter-cutting of some lesser-quality printing elements. The negative is pleasantly lacking in visible dirt on the negative, and there are few damaged or scratched frames. Distant images are generally sharp. While this is definitely not a title that has been subjected to digital restoration, it still looks mighty fine.

The mono soundtrack is of reasonably high fidelity, although somewhat flat and noisy, pointing to the source probably being a less than optimum quality 35mm mono combine lacking any kind of noise reduction.

Like so many of the recent MGM releases, this is a totally no-frills package with absolutely none of the usual extras like a theatrical trailer or cast bios. But for ten or eleven bucks, this Blu-ray DVD is an excellent buy!

The Horse Soldiers remains a powerful, thought-provoking piece of popular entertainment that rightfully belongs to be listed among John Ford's finest work.

Final Thoughts

For trivia buffs, the film has a number of interesting cast members. Silent film-era western star Hoot Gibson has a small role, as does African-American athlete Althea Gibson. In his day, Hoot Gibson was the biggest western star in America. John Wayne worked with him when he was a young bit-player. Althea Gibson was the first African-American to play in the American Lawn Tennis league and in the U.S. National Tennis Championship. She was the first African-American to play at Wimbledon and she won the French Championship in 1956. A true American hero, she was in no small part responsible in the smashing of the color barrier in American professional sports and her victories at integrating tennis are arguably every bit as important as Jackie Robinson's in baseball.