Few filmmakers are better than Ken Burns when it comes to shooting documentaries.  Burns' Baseball series is further proof that he is one of the best documentary filmmakers around today, although Baseball pales in  comparison to Burns' Civil War series.  This anthology has some great  things going for it; for instance, it's for the most part very well written  and is accompanied by great photos.  The music is also quite good.  Many of  the people who were interviewed for these films offer superb commentary,  especially the former Negro Leaguer Buck O'Neil, one of the most delightful  personalities the game has ever produced.  Most of baseball's best moments  are highlighted with proper detail.  Unlike most baseball histories (books  or films), Burns' documentary gives extensive coverage of the Negro  Leagues, which only makes the series better.  For the most part, this is a  very strong, very well-done series.  Unfortunately, it does suffer from a  few shortcomings.  Many people have complained that Burns chose to focus  too much on certain teams, like the New York Yankees, Brooklyn Dodgers, and  Boston Red Sox.  These critics may have a legitimate complaint, but they  have to realize that those three teams are steeped in baseball history and  do deserve a lot of coverage, although probably not as much as they  received.  Because those three clubs were focused on so heavily, many teams  and players were given the shaft.  Stan Musial doesn't even get mentioned  in the video that focuses on the 1940s, a decade in which he became one of  the five or ten best ballplayers of all time.  But at least he gets  mentioned (on some of the other videos).  Mike Schmidt, generally  considered the greatest third basemen who ever lived, isn't mentioned even  once during the entire 20-hour series.  This type of oversight is  tremendous and cannot be ignored.  The fact of the matter is that Schmidt  played in the 70s and 80s, two decades (along with almost half of the 90s)  that were crammed into the same video.  As a result, much of modern  baseball history is neglected.  Where is the famous George Brett Pine Tar  Incident?  What about all the player strikes, especially the one in 1981  that split the season in half?  Why isn't the amazing 1991 World Series  covered in greater detail?  The answer is that Burns tried to cover too  much time in the last video.  The 70s was certainly a good enough baseball  decade to warrant an entire video, and Burns could have covered the 80s up  to the present with another video.  But that would have meant having ten  videos instead of nine, thus eliminating the opportunity to call each  series installment an inning (oh boy, that would've ruined it).  Another  problem is that some of the people who are interviewed are way too  sentimental.  John Thorn, for instance, goes completely off the deep end  with his comments several times, especially when he compares baseball to  "the promise of eternal life."  One can do justice to baseball  without resorting to careless sap.  Unfortunately, this series gets sappy  more often than it should.  Yes, baseball is a great game, but it is not  the meaning of life.  Despite all of these problems, the series is  extremely informative and very entertaining.  Worth buying if you love the  game.