. . .so let's review "Local Hero," the 1983 sleeper that became a hit on HBO, and recently on DVD.
On the surface, it seems to be your typical "country hicks save the day" movie.  It even starts with Texas oil executive "Mac" MacIntyre's daily Porsche-commute.  Mac works in the land division of Knox Industries, whose board of directors have a plan to "acquire Scotland -- that is, part of Scotland," as the site for a refinery and shipping terminal for North Sea oil (having already obtained drilling rights and begun work on pipelines to the planned facility). 
Mac (Peter Riegert), a self-professed "Telex man," who works from his desk rather than in the field, is sent to buy the land they need.  So far, so good . . .or, so we think.
Mac leads a lonely life -- he can't even get a date for his last night in the US -- and the highlight of his day is to be called to the office of Knox' top man, billionaire Felix Happer (Burt Lancaster).  Happer, unimpressed with wealth and position, gives Mac a brief lesson in astronomy and a strange order -- to watch the clear rural skies during his trip.  Happer fell in love with the skies during his days in the oil fields, decades before, and has focussed on discovering a comet as a legacy, in place of the family he never had.  As Mac will be 6 hours ahead of Texas time, he will have the chance to report "anything out of the ordinary" on Happer's private line, giving the tycoon a chance to look for his comet.
Far from scheming, Mac's job is one of simple negotiation, offer and counteroffer, but he finds the Scottish town to be a completely different environment than those he's used to.  Helped along by Mark ("Dire Straits") Knopfler's intriguing score and the beauty of the Scottish location, the audience follows him through the stages of discovery that there is another way of life which might be better than his own.
The cast includes the beautiful Marina (Jenny Seagrove), a marine biologist first introduced in the controlled environment of a Knox research tank (one can see why Mac later admits thinking of women in a fishtank!).  She is then seen again in the waters of Furness Bay, where we find that she, too, is a bit unusual.
In fact, everyone is a bit unusual, including the village residents (one man condemns the Maserati for not having room to carry lobster traps) and Happer's executive secretary, who chats on the phone with an unnamed prime minister about rasberries and toast.
Eventually, we have to conclude that the only "normal" person in the whole film is Mac -- or is he?  Is the life he knows REALLY based on sanity . . ?  If we can relate only to Mac, what does that say about ourselves?
This PG-rated film is the visual version of "Easy Listening."  There is no stress, no foul language, no nudity, no drama (yet no open comedy), no hate, no preaching, no anything-else to get in the way of the enigma upon enigma presented by writer/director Bill Forsyth.
If you are the type who needs every loose end tied off, this isn't your film -- in fact, we never even find out who the "Local Hero" really is, but are left with half a dozen different strong possibilties!  
However, if you are willing to just ride along, this charming film offers the sheer joy of absurdity without pretense.  It also offers fuel for long, lazy discussions with someone you enjoy being near, on points not discovered until the third viewing.  Or the thirty-third . . .and counting . . .