OBITUARY:  On November 15,2011 Blu-Ray consumers bore witness to the still-born deliveries of "My Fair Lady" and "West Side Story".  It was a mournful day.  Clearly, the past promises of Blu-Ray and all that is was meant to be - mainly perfection - has been abandoned and reduced to a text-book marketing ploy for The Emperor's New Clothes and all the off-the-rack deceptions that come with it.  I don't believe for a moment that the corrections needed on the Blu-Ray release of "West Side Story" will ever be rectified by the distributor.  Their so-called variation on a recall of this faulty Blu-Ray transfer will prove to be nothing more than a placating or string-along PR scam; as such corrections, I suspect, could lead to a lengthy and indefinite time period.  Without resolution, a couple more years will pass and, I suspect, we will enevitably discover that our hands will be forced into the realm of triple-dipping to get what we were initially promised on Noverber 15th.  They got your money, folks...and we are stuck.  Don't get me wrong; I am well aware that some of our classic films are in trouble and may never be able to attain the perfection I am addressing; on the other hand, my criticisms of "WEST SIDE STORY" and "MY FAIR LADY" are justified.  BOTH films have received the red-carpet restoration treatment within their 70mm negatives; and the Blu-Ray movement has irreversably proven what was possible with such standard-bearer transfers as "The Sound of Music"; so...all and all, it's much too late for the Blu-Ray movement to begin its retreat.  Such lost experiences include the Blu-Ray OMISSION of the newly discovered Oscar winning 6-Track sound design from the 70mm Roadshow version of "WEST SIDE STORY"; which just further mutes and diminishes the joyous sounds one would hope to hear at a 50th Anniversary party.  The excuses made for the 6-track omission are weak and unacceptable...something to do with costs...but what could be more costly than the mass marketing of a Blu-Ray title that morally needs to be recalled due to its poor supervision and lack-luster transfer?  The same aforementioned morals charge must also by applied ten-fold to the Blu-Ray transfer of "MY FAIR LADY"  I mainly mourn for the restoration team of Harris and Katz; who spent, I believe, up to two years of their efforts in bringing back to pristine life the 70mm negative; which had nearly become extinct.  One would think - with preservation and perfection in mind - that the 1994 Harris/Katz acheivement fused with the possibilites of Blu-Ray would have been a match made in heaven...but CBS/Fox/Paramount did not confer with this source restoration team; leaving each and everyone one of us at the Blu-Ray alter.  The "MY FAIR LADY" supplements contain a fantastic 1994 insight into what Harris and Katz were up against in saving the 70mm negative; ironically, though, we do not get to experience the optimum results of their efforts.  It's not the fault of Harris and Katz...they did their job.  I believe their goal was to preserve "My Fair Lady" for future generations; and, ironially, that next generation of supervisors did not take advantage of the gift that was passed down to them.  This weakened transfer of the restored 70mm print onto Blu-Ray was in the hands of an entirely different team.  What this Blu-Ray team did to this transfer was equal to Higgins charges to Eliza when first hearing her accent; [it was]"the cold bloody murder of the English tounge". Blu-Ray promised to give us the optimum State-Of-The-Art experience in sight and sound...and I would like to experience "My Fair Lady" in all its Loverly breadth and detail.  The Blu-Ray transfer team of "MY FAIR LADY" did little for our Miss Dolittle.  Perhaps, as consumers, we should no longer participate or invest our monies in the Pre-Order Sales programs...as consumers we should simply wait until the Blu-Ray reviews are in.  Perhaps, with a boycotting of Blu-Ray Pre-Order Sales it will ensure that the standards of restoration and transfers onto Blu-Ray remain in check.