THERE ARE NO SPOLIERS IN THIS REVIEW! 
There's really only one word to describe Scream 3 and that is "wow"!  I was one of the first to see this movie in Ireland.  I was already a fan of the first two.  Contrary  to what most people say I think Scream 2 was better than the first chapter.  I knew this one would be even better--and it was without a doubt for MANY  reasons.  Firstly, Ehren Kruger wrote the screenplay.  I remember seeing  Arlington Road and saying to myself "God, if Kevin was to drop off  writing duties on Scream 3 then this is the man to take over" and I  have to say the Weinstein Brothers couldn't have made a better choice.  Kevin Williamson is my favorite screenwriter (Tarantino second and Kruger  third) but I don't think that even Kevin Williamson would have brought the  originality to this final chpater like Ehren did.  The whole style of the  movie was different yet familiar and in that way it allows the audience to  remember it's watching a Scream movie without saying "Hey, I've seen  that before."  The whole voice distortion thing was ingenious and the  opening scene was the best ever!  OH MY GOD.  Who would have guessed?  And  it was sooooo suspenseful and well done that my jaw was on the cinema  floor.  Everything is either scary, thrilling, controverisl or funny all  the way down to the inevitable blood-sluiced-slide down to the unmasking.  As Ehren Kruger said himself--it is a little like Scooby Doo (but in the  fun way).  The cinematography was top-notch (great colors, framing and of  course those famous hint-hints to the audience where the camera favors a  certain character and immediatley makes him/her a suspect.)  The DP Peter  Deming and Editor Patrick Lussier worked well together and I think their  work is fantastic, especially on this film.  The pacing was well-maintained  (another Kruger touch which is evident in his films) and keeps you guessing  about the identity of the killers until the very end.  And it's NOT just  one of those He/She/They-takes-of-the-mask-and-gives-any-ol' motive.  The  ending not only relates to Scream 3 but also to the first movie.  When the  killer(s) is/are finally revealed you say to yourself "Wow.  That's  smart."  Craven, Kruger, Maddelena, Williamson and Co. couldn't have  done a better job.  The score is frightening to say the least and the  characters are well cast and developed and are very very very very funny  especially Jennifer's character (Parker Posey) and Tyson Fox (Deon  Richmond) and Jennifer's bodyguard Steven Stone manages to raise a FEW  healthy laughs every time he pops up on screen.  Patrick Dempsey's  character Detective Mark Kincaid (cool name) is superb as the detective who  takes over the Stab 3 case and the chemistry that takes place between  Campbell and him is electric (especially in a scene in his office where he  talks to Sidney about her mother and both their lives).  Kincaid's partner  J. Wallace is like a light version of Chandler Bing who is relaxed as hell  and so sarcastic he's funny.  Liev Schreiber (I love this man) is a welcome  addition to the cast, returning as Cotton Weary, the man who was once  framed for the murder of Maureen Prescott (Sidney's mother) in Scream but  was later exonerated.  Cotton is now the host of the country's "No. 1  nationally syndicated talk-show" and has a beautiful girlfriend  Christine (Kelly Rutherford from Melrose Place) who is never quiet sure  whether she can trust Cotton or not.  Parker Posey is hilarious as the  actress Jennifer Jolie who portrays Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette)  in STAB 3.  And Dewey Riley (David Arquette) returns as the technical  advisor on the set of STAB 3 and also happens to be Jennifer's boyfriend  which Gale is not so happy about.  This love triangle gives rise to some  hilarious and unforgettable movie moments.  Jenny Mc Carthy is also great  (for a change) as Sarah Darling, who's just an actress in STAB 3.  Sarah's  scenes are like a story on its own.  It's like a look into an actresses  life in Hollywood and how they're typecast immediately.  Luckily for  McCarthy, she was able to break free of being typecast and shows that she  can in fact act.  Emily Mortimer is great as Angelina Tyler, the  "young, sweet, ingenue" who plays Sidney in STAB 3 and Matthew  Keeslar is fantastic as Tom Prinze, the actor who plays Dewey as is Scott  Foley's character Roman Bridger (I'll probably change my name to this) as  the director of Stab 3: Return To Woodsboro who is paranoid about his film  being "killed" and his neurosis about it is funny too.  When the  characters who play other characters in Stab 3 meet up the result is  instantaneously hilarious.  This also provides extra space for Kruger to  point the finger of suspicion at EVERY character (this is not an  understatement).  But don't be fooled by the well-meaning demeanor of most  characters.  You need to look beyond the facade of most characters to see  the truth (Kruger is a master of this).  Oh, I almost forgot, the cameos.  Randy Meeks, who died in Scream 2 is back.  How?  His sister Martha  (Heather Matarazzo) brings Sidney, Gale and Dewey a video of Randy  explaining the rules of the trilogy which he made before he died.  All will  be revealed when you watch the movie.  It's NOT predictable either--far  from it.  I loved the ending especially.  I don't want to say much about  the killer(s) motives so I'll move onto the last sequence in the movie  which was so well done that I'm jealous of Craven's talent.  If you don't  BUY this film then you're simply a fool.  Yes, a FOOL--because this is  without a doubt not only the best horror film of all time but is a worthy  entry into any film fan's Top Ten...or even Top Five Best Movies Of All  Time.  I saw it 8 times in the cinema and have it ordered from Amazon.com  on DVD and will receive it next week (great service) and you can bet your  bottom dollar (or pound in my case) that I will be waiting to attack the  postman before he hops off his bike.  Can't wait to see it again..and  again..and again...and again and I'm not crazy by the way.