Sam J Jones, former Marine and Minor League football star, got his start in this campy send up of the popular 1930's comic strip.  ALthough the movie was not an Oscar calibur production, strong acting by Max Von Sydow, a strong soundtrack powered by Queen and tongue in cheek humor help to make this movie experience a must for any fans of science fiction, campy movies, or of the late 1970's.

The movie starts us off with a quick introduction of Emperor Ming.  Ming is played by Max Von Sydow, one of the best actors of all time.  The Emperor of the Universe is bored and has decided that his new plaything will be a small obscure planet in the SK system, known to its inhabitants as Earth.

Suddenly, we are treated to a credits sequence with music by Queen.  The song "Flash Gordon" is one of Queen's strongest tracks of all time and is one of the more memorable elements of this movie.  If not for the brilliant score behind "Shaft" this would be the best movie theme song and score of all time.

Intro Flash Gordon.  He's a superstar quarterback for the New York Jets, a real ladies man, except that he can't win over the heart of Dale Arden, played by Melody Anderson.  These two have a tremendous flirty chemistry that plays itself out throughout the movie.

Topol, better known for his role in the James Bond movie "For your eyes Only" plays Dr. Zarkoff, mad scientist and reluctant hero.  The three are catapulted into space as part of Zarkov's half assed plan to save the planet and crash land on Planet Mingo.

From here on in, the movie is pure science fiction fun.  The heroes land on a strange planet, must face the emperor and his whims, escape to the moons and then face the princes of the moons themselves.

The Princes, by the way, add the fun to the movie.  A young Timothy Dalton (James Bond in later movies) plays Prince Barin with his usual Shakesperian gusto, which is totally out of place and hilarious in this camp fest.  Brian Blessed (King Lear) plays the Winged Prince Vultan with a high level of hedonistic lust.  Both of them are real joys and add a highlight to this movie.

And I can't go on without mentioning the villains.  Besides Max Von Sydow's great role as the "bad guy who likes to be bad", Peter Wyngarde excells as the boot licking, but ruthless  sidekick to Ming named "Klytus", and Ornella Muti is steamy as Ming's sexually depraved daughter.

Eventually, Flash Gordon rallies the troops and sets up a worldwide revolution, just in time for one last rendition of the Flash Gordon theme song.

This movie has yet to be released officially on DVD in the states, though it has been released in Brazil (Their DVDs work in American players, check the Z Sellers or Ebay).  It has been rumored that a 25th anniversary version will be released on DVD in 2005.  I can not recommend this movie enough.  It is one of my childhood favorites that has over the years proven itself as one of campy science fiction's best creations of all time.