I'm trying to think of a worse movie.  People often mention 'Showgirls' or 'Battlefield Earth' but those have some entertainment value from their unintended cheesy lines and performances.  The Guardian is stone cold dull from beginning to the very long end, hampered by bad acting, writing and production (you can see the boom mike in one scene).

The subject matter, the work of the Coast Guard, is interesting but it gets mired in this very long movie.  Kevin Costner gives his usual performance where he thinks he is being stoic but it simply comes across as wooden.  Ashton Kutchner is miscast as a swimming champion and seems incredibly uncomfortable with his cracking voice.  While I give him credit for trying to break out of only doing comedy the sensitive action hero role is obviously not for him.

The supporting characters give good performances for the brief amount of time they're on the screen.  Characters are introduced and then disappear without any development. Was there originally something more to Sela Ward's role.  Similarly plot lines and tensions are introduced but never developed.  It is simply dull.

The writing is truly bad.  The situations the characters are put into and their reactions simply do not seem believable.  Ashton Kutchner's relationship with a local teacher is a prime example.  We're told that Kutchner is a high school swimming champion that all of the Ivy Leaugue schools were after (The Ivy League does not give out sports scholarships.)  We then find out that he didn't compete in swimming after his sophomore year.  Those scholarship people sure are taking a chance.  We're later told that Kutchner's character is 24.  How long was he a senior in high school?  Having not competed in 8 years we're to believe that schools are after him.  There are more examples of the poor writing to go along with that.

The actual action sequences are surprisingly dull.  There isn't any electricty on the screen.  It seems contrived.  Additionally the dialogue is stiff and unmemorable.  As others have pointed out a lot here is derivative of lots of other movies (which were good) you've probably already seen. The movie meanders on and on.  After the first hour and a half I decided to stick it out thinking that it would be over soon.  No such luck.  The movie runs well over 2 hours, far too long.

[SPOILER ALERT]  With what I thought was the ending of the movies with the death of Kevin Costner's character I sighed with relief that the end was in sight.  No such luck.  The movie continues on for 6 or 7 more episodes trying to tie up loose ends with each new episode seeming more unnecessary and unbelievable than the previous one.  We finally reach the end when Kutchner's character realizes that Costner hasn't been killed but, much like Don Knotts in 'The Incredible Mr. Limpett', magically transformed into a merman that swims around helping people.  The Coast Guard and all people of the sea call that merman the Guardian - the title character of the film.  I'm not making that up, that is the real ending.  I don't know if the writer had tears coming down his face when he wrote that thinking that he had come up with poetry, but it is a ponderously stupid ending.  Don't waster over 2 hours of your life enduring this film.