This film should come with a warning:  "Danger!  For David Mamet fans only!"
It isn't unlikely that the uninitiated will enjoy the film. It is a very good film.  However, those for whom this is their first Mamet film may find themselves confused or uncomfortable and thus, unable to enjoy the film for what it is.  Better that they start with something easier like "The Edge" and then move onto something like "The Winslow Boy" or "The Spanish Prisoner" and thence to "House of Games" before trying something challenging like "Glengarry" or "Oleanna".
All of Mamets tricks are here...  his love of the telephone as a means to interrup conversations and his use of the one-sided conversation to add depth to the story.  Mamet's stacatto dialog which its odd combination of 40s gangster-aggression and dry, professorial wit is rarely more purely distilled than it is here.
Watching this film is like drinking 151 rum in neat shots.  It isn't for everyone but those who can do it will have one hell of a ride.
One thing I really like about Mamet's stuff is that he doesn't create "strawman" characters.  I read once that the Chess Master Bobby Fisher learned the game by playing both sides equally hard because he couldn't find a worthy opponent.  
Many writers may claim to attempt this when creating confrontations between their characters but Mamet is one of the few who succeeds brilliantly.  The tagline "whichever side you take, you're wrong" is not only clever, it is very true.  They could just as easily replaced "wrong" with "right".  Why didn't they?  
Read Mamet's book "Three Uses of the Knife" for his explanation of why the Arthur Miller play "Death of a Salesman" couldn't have been called "Life of a Salesman" and you'll understand.
I wish Mr. Mamet a long a prolific career.  Keep 'em coming!!
p.s.  I read on the DVD box that when this play was first performed at a university, a group of angry students confronted Mamet and one of them accused him of "political irresponsibility".  Here's hoping that Mr. Mamet continues to annoy and irritate foolish people like that for many years to come.