The subtle masterpiece and Academy Award winner for best picture of 1980, "Ordinary People", is a heartbreaking, character driven tale that evolves around the lives of an upper class, suburban family in Chicago. The troubled son, Conrad Jared (played by Timothy Hutton), must make an awkward and difficult transition into high school and home life after months in a mental hospital for attempted suicide, greatly due to the loss of his older brother. He is still haunted by his past and desperately longs for a connection with his distant and broken mother, Beth (played by Mary Tyler Moore), as well as a sense of belonging and normalcy, which he searches for during his weekly interactions with his psychiatrist (played by Judd Hirsch), who slowly unlocks the boy's inner pain and mysteries. The concerned father, Calvin (played by Donald Sutherland) tries frantically to assure his son and piece the family back together; however the emotional struggles the family must endure brings out each member's true colors and weaknesses, including the fathers.
"Ordinary People" is carefully crafted, incredibly honest, and touching. Each character is depicted with great depth and sincerity. Hutton delivered an intense, thoughtful and true performance, receiving a well-deserved Oscar for best supporting actor, although the title, best actor, would have been more suitable... the role was made for him, and he owned it with such care, often speaking more with his eyes and body language than words. Another highlight is Mary Tyler Moore, who tackled her first dramatic role amazingly, surprising audiences with her profound, Oscar worthy and most memorable portrayal. Hirsh (who was nominated for an Oscar for the film as well) and Hutton also had great chemistry together -playing off of each other very naturally - certainly a plus for fans of  "The Sixth Sense", "The Prince of Tides" and "Good Will Hunting", and Sutherland gave a notable performance as the lost, but hopeful father - which led him to an Oscar nomination. 
The characters of this film are surprisingly real and easy to relate to, even the adult friends of Beth and Calvin, as well as Conrad's friends are so believable -making "Ordinary People" one of the greatest character studies of all time. What I really loved about this movie is that it gave nothing away - it trusted the audience to figure out what each character's motives were and what they were thinking, a refreshing change from the regular, Hollywood movie of today - in fact another aspect which made the film so refreshing was that unlike other family dramas it was very unpredictable. Watching "Ordinary People" is a very inexplicable experience, not relying on anything but truth to get its message and entertainment across - its almost like looking into a mirror... bravo to the writers and actors who depicted each character with such layers and candor, possibly paying more attention to detail then the creators of "The Sixth Sense" and other acclaimed mysteries. And not only that, but this movie leaves audiences with a new perspective and a lot to ponder. 
This is Robert Redford's directorial debut and by far his greatest. The winner of four Oscars, "Ordinary People", is a classic that cannot be missed, proving once again that the average person is more interesting than a love triangle or action sequence! It is a breakthrough, flawless film that is true to reality, yet is well balanced with comedic relief, suspense and a little romance between Conrad and a girl from his high school. However, we view this relationship realistically and we feel the anxiousness and nervousness between the two without the glamour and lines that could only have been created by a screenwriter or James Bond. Although the movie may appear to be simple on it's exterior, accompanied by only one instrumental piece, Pachelbel's "Canon in D", it has many heavy layers that are thrilling to explore. I feel this film, among other things, is about humanity; what regular people are capable of doing to others out of fear. This is a vital movie for every teenager and adult to see.