I'm a 21-year-old Lion King fan.  I still adore the first film, and I enjoyed the sequel when it first came out.  Maybe it's because I'm a guy, or maybe it's because the kid at heart is growing up too fast, but after watching the film a few days ago, I didn't like it as much.  Unfortunately, the more I watch, the more evident the reasons become. Here are a few reasons:

1) There's not much of a story.  At the end of the first film, everything was wrapped up without loose ends.  It was the perfect ending: justice triumphs, the wrongs are made right, and they all live happily ever after.  "Simba's Pride" takes place in the "happily ever after," and the warm fuzzies don't come at the end of a battle that leaves you on the edge of your seat.  The conflict here does shape up to be intense, but at its peak, it's ended by talking things out--which actually works.

2) The characters aren't well-developed.  As cubs, Kiara and Kovu got very little screen time.  The movie's supposed to focus on them, but the real tension comes between Simba and Kovu's mother, Zira.  As a result, Kiara and Kovu are caught in the crosshairs, and they don't get a chance to grow and show us who they really are.  Even the main characters lost their power and intensity, especially Simba.  He went from strong leader to poor parent, and even though he's not Mufasa, we never got a chance to see who he really is as king.

3) The music is weak.  This is another disappointment because the music helped make the first film as magical as it was.  In "Simba's Pride," it sounded like a canned soundtrack--complete with an electric guitar and fretless bass to boot.  The pieces with lyrics range from over-the-top ("Upendi") to sappy ("Love Will Find a Way") to senseless ("Zira's Lullaby").  The song "Deception, Disgrace" is one of the saga's best songs, but it comes after an hour of fairly mediocre material.

"Lion King" is one of those rarities--a masterpiece that gets better with age.  Any sequels that follow have extraordinary standards to reach.  Despite my issues with it, I definitely think "Simba's Pride" met some of those standards.  It kept a cast of characters that continued to be cute and cool.  Matthew Broderick still made Simba come to life, and Kiara and Kovu grew on me as the film went on.  Plus, they kept the original cast and breathtaking storyworld; there was very little that they actually changed, which counts for a lot.

Still, the story and the characters weren't as strong as they could have been, which made all the difference between a classic and a cartoon.  If they were better-developed, I think the movie could have been on the level of the original.  I still recommend "Simba's Pride" to anyone who loves the saga; by far, it's Disney's best sequel--certainly better than what it's putting out these days.  It may not have won over as many fans as the first, but it's a film you can show kids with confidence--and if you're a kid at heart, you'll likely want to come along for the ride, too.