Several readers comment on the existential qualities of this movie, and they are right on. The Stranger, the character Eastwood portrays, is really something of a Nietzschen superman. He acquires this role because he possesses the attributes that the denizens of Lagos revere: courage and a quick draw. As a superman, the Stranger is able to impose his ideas and morality (or lack thereof) on Lagos. His vision--to use Nietzsche's term--for Lagos involves painting the town red, teaching the men to use guns and turning the town into a Hell for those who wronged it in the past and dare to return. This vision is scary to watch unfold, especially since the townspeople put up so little resistance considering the magnitude of the Stranger's demands. It is astonishing that the superman can so easily win over and conquer the women, religious figures and political figures of the town, thus underscoring Nietzsche's point that most people are timid and can easily be crushed and proselytized by a superman.

 Aside from this (probably unintentional) philosophical motif, High Plains Drifer is just plain fun to watch. Eastwood is the director, and is brilliant in the familiar role of the Stranger with No Name. The scenes in the barber's office, bar and country store are classic. In addition, the finale is dark, dramatic and demonic. 
 Two minor flaws are worth pointing out, although they in no way detract from the experience of viewing the film. The first flaw is the confusion set up about whether the Stranger is the ghost of the slain U.S. Marshall. The movie implies--toward the very end--that the Stranger IS the ghost of the Marshall, because the Marshall's grave is open at the conclusion of the film, as if the Stranger were returning to it. Also, the Stranger has recurring visions of the Marshall being whipped, as if the Stranger has been through the experience himself. This seems to contradict the fact that the whipped Marshall looks nothing like the Stranger, and that no one in the town recognizes the Stranger, when you expect they would recognize him, if he had been through the town. I call this contradiction a flaw because it is irritating. It is impossible for the Stranger to both be and not be the ghost of the U.S. Marshall, which is what the movie leads one to believe.
 The other flaw is the fact that Lagos was so blatantly thrown together in one week. Half of the buildings in the town look like they would blow over if a child kicked them. In the West, miner's towns may have been constructed quickly, but I doubt that any old Western towns contained such a high percentage of rickety structures.
 Despite these (small) flaws, High Plains Drifter should rank as one of the best Westerns ever made. It is dark as sable cloth, but is also exciting and dramatic. A great movie that all existentialists, Eastwood fans or Western buffs should be familiar with.