Hilarious homemade French farce about the dangers of smoking cigarettes. Jean-Paul Belmondo's "death-run" at the end is simply hysterical--being a heavy smoker myself I've often staggered down the street after a just missed bus in exactly this bagonghi fashion, complete with comical collapse in final face flop. Apparently some folks still insist it was those dirty French cops who shot down lovable bad boy and Bogie wannabe Michel Poiccard but if you ask me it was the gazillion Gauloises that ultimately poleaxed the rubber-lipped loulou. Seriously though, is it any wonder this cautionary little flick is called Breathless? Just check out the sheer number of stogies old Michel fires up over the course of a tight 90 minutes--sometimes the cheerful cheese-chomper has two or even three going at the same time! And of course the radiant Jean Seberg is quite literally smoking throughout as the imported hot potato with five-alarm boho coiff, Patricia. That unbelievably extended bedroom scene is among other things a triumph of lighting given the prodigious quantities of smoke both Michel and Patricia are blowing. Say tray tray bong to Jean-Luc Godard in any case; the only other Frenchman capable of making cigarettes look this dangerously cool on film is Jean-Pierre Melville who--quelle surprise!--actually shows up here in a scene-stealing cameo as Parvulesco, the arrogant tobacco spokesman interviewed by Patricia. In fact, Melville's magnificent Le Samouraï very likely surpasses Breathless in its almost existential devotion to the cinematic cigarette. Plus the great attraction of Alain Delon's Jef Costello over Jean-Paul Belmondo's Michel Poiccard is Delon in Le Samouraï says practically nothing during the entire film whereas Belmondo has a tendency to twitch and jabber uncontrollably. Ironically enough, the one other discordant note in the Godard movie is Martial Solal's truly execrable score which sounds to my own hairy caveman's ears like it was composed by someone who had just recently given up smoking.