I picked this up not realizing it was 25 minutes shorter than the film I loved.  I was just so excited to see that it was available on DVD in the US finally I bought it without paying attention.  As I was putting into the DVD player my wife asked me why it was titled Director's Son's Cut.

25 minutes gone?  I was expecting the worst.

Turns out, the new cut makes it a better film.  The pacing is greatly improved.  IT's not like entire scenes were removed.  Individual seconds have been snipped here and there.  When someone makes a witty comment, the comeback is much quicker.  The fight scenes are faster and more chaotic.  The movie is much brisker.  Some of the clunkier jokes that fell flat are gone.

Here's some examples:  When Erik explains the need to go to Asgard, Snorri's response "Well, that's much more sensible than just Sven and Thorfin getting killed.  Shall I go and pack now?" has been reduced to simply "Shall I go and pack now?"  It's much tighter.  That stale little joke that didn't really work is gone.  Also, when sneezed out of the mouth of the Dragon of the North Sea, Snorri just says 'Ewwww' and doesn't follow it with "What's he been eating then?"  It works better.  Much better.

Also, in the scenes where Erik sees the girl he killed, she's on the screen and gone in a flash.  Giving it much more of a subliminal 'did he really see her or not feel' as opposed to lingering on her at length.

When Sven finally goes berzerk, he doesn't stand still in the middle of a fight, slowly generating foam.  He simply sees his friend and goes berzrk.  Makes much more sense (as someone could have simply stabbed him while he stood there spitting out whipped cream.)

In Hybrazil, the King only asks Erik if he knows how to play the horn once instead of repeating it.

For the most part, it's still the same old movie.  Just livelier.  I'm happy to have it.  Mainly because my old VHS tape was grainy as all hell, not widescreen and oh yeah, I don't have a VCR any more.

I do have one complaint about the editing choices made though.  There is a single, albeit small, scene that was completely removed.  The scene where they're bailing out the sinking boat.  It had some great dialogue (Getting baptized, how deep is the ocean, and I always loved Tim Robbins delivery on "Nobody kill anybody.")  Removing it makes the jump from the Dragon scene to the Hybrazil scene much snappier, but I wouldn't have sacrificed those lines for such a minor pacing improvement.

That's probably the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars.

If you truly loved the film, I'd fork out the $14 to, if nothing else, have this copy while we wait and hope that it doesn't take another 10 years to get the original on DVD.