I found Hangman's Curse by Frank Peretti to be very thought provoking, and although it deals with some very difficult, and perhaps even disconcerting issues, I would highly recommend it to older readers. However, some of the content and imagery might be difficult for readers under the age of twelve.

Hangman's curse is about a Christian detective family who spend their time solving crimes using various forensic techniques such as analyzing chemicals within a straw, taking crime scene photographs, conducting witness and suspect interviews and speaking with various experts from various fields. The story centers on the investigations of a brother and sister team who work with their parents (very respectfully, might I add) to solve criminal cases. In Hangman's curse, they are trying to figure out why a number of bullies go crazy, and at first, many onlookers attribute the bullies' wild hallucinations and erratic behavior to be the work of a boy named Ian Snyder who portrays himself as some sort of spell-casting witch doctor. However, as their investigation continues, the young sleuths soon learn that there is a much more natural, although equally terrifying explanation for the odd behaviors and even deaths that have been occurring within the high school halls.

This book has an engaging and very suspenseful plot and presents characters with a very close and intimate relationship to Christ. It also addressed some very difficult and important issues like bullying, relativistic thinking and evolution in a clear, concise, and yet entertaining way by weaving thought-provoking details throughout the text.

However, some children might be scared by the mention of witchcraft (which was disproved as it relates to the story by the end of the text), by the imagery of spiders, by the mention of death (one of the students dies due to the mysterious condition that seems to be plaguing the bullies of the high school) and the mention of ghosts (which turn out to be nothing more than hallucinations caused by...oops, you gotta read the book to find out!) However, because wika, or the practice of witchcraft, is growing in America, some parents might like to see this issue addressed in a biblical manner, as Peretti does in this book. However, for those parents who choose to steer clear of these issues altogether or who have children susceptible to nightmares, this may not be the book for them. But for older students, and most especially, non-Christians who have never heard anything about creation or the Truth of God, this book does a wonderful job of addressing some of the issues that our students face in the typical high school classroom and effectively argues for the truth of Scripture.

In a nutshell, I would strongly recommend this book for teens and emotionally mature tweens who are not easily frightened. Arachnophobes should definitely steer clear of this book. Parents will also appreciate the clean language used throughout the text and the fact that there weren't any "boyfriend", "girlfriend" references or inferences; and students who find themselves on either side of the "bullying issue" will either be challenged or encouraged.
Review by Jennifer Slatter author of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0578004607">Journey To The Ice</a> and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0578018918">A Grand Canyon Adventure</a>