Before anyone lapses into expending too many neurons on dissecting "Kronk's New Groove," it's important to remember some of your VERY basic "Hollywood Movie Assembly Line 101."  First, it's a Disney sequel, which conjures up memories of "Mighty Ducks 2" and "The Return of Jafar," neither of which were strokes of cinematic brilliance.  Second, it's a direct-to-video money-making concoction, which obviously doesn't have to appeal to quite the same audience or employ the same strategy for appeal as a movie that appears in theaters.  Third, it's a classic case of "let's take the adorably hilarious comedy relief from the first film and, THIS time, make HIM the star," a tactic that, let's face it, almost never works.
  Having said that, "Kronk's New Groove" is sufficient enough entertainment because it doesn't HAVE to be as good as the first one.  No one should have been overly shocked that both David Spade and John Goodman had very brief, essentially mailed-in voice-overs in the sequel, and likely the only way either agreed to appear at all was under the condition that they didn't have to break a sweat (though Goodman probably sweats putting on his socks, but I digress and, admittedly, am just as large as he is).  The plot and action are scattershot and not terrificly well thought out, as the movie tosses in a little Yzma here, a little Kuzko there, some of Ms. Birdwell (in a fitfully goofy performance by Tracey Ullman, who's funny but no Ellen DeGeneres), some of Dad, some of Pacha, a few dashes of Kronk's good and bad angels (even Pacha's middle kid gets his own good and bad angels in this one, which just goes to show too many Disney execs thought the idea was a lot funnier than it really is when played out multiple times).  But on to the good points: Patrick Warburton is hysterical, the running time is easy on the daily planner, and, in maybe the most poignant statement the movie may not necessarily intend to make, the old folks and the little scamps are the funniest secondary characters in the film.  You'll be disappointed if you expect too much, but hopefully after this you won't...be disappointed OR expect too much.  It's funny enough throughout for all ages and, for those of us old enough to appreciate the gesture, it gives John Mahoney (Poppa Kronk) a job that, after years of toil and trial, he's earned: a nice, easy paycheck.  (As Kronk himself may have said, "Easy paycheck...riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiight.")