"Brokeback Mountain" was the most nominated film this year in the Academy Awards with eight nominations, including the coveted categories of "Best Picture," "Best Actor," "Best Supporting Actor," "Best Supporting Actress," and "Best Director." ." To much shock and upset, it failed to win "Best Picture" at the Academy Awards, an honor which it earned in almost every other major motion picture award show it was nominated for, marking it as one of the biggest snubs in Academy Award history. However, it did take home Oscar wins in the following three categories: "Best Director," "Best Adapted Screenplay" and "Best Original Score." The movie itself has also gathered rave reviews by both major and local critics respectively. The New York Times gives it a remarkable grade of 100%, leaving some of the year's other top films, such as "Capote" behind at 90%. The film is a personal story of two brave young men, Ennis Del Mar, a ranch hand played brilliantly by Heath Ledger, and Jake Gyllenhaal gives a stellar performance as Jack Twist, a rodeo Texan cowboy. Ennis Del Mar is a character who is tortured, sensitive, taciturn who talks with a clenched fist expression and fails to look anybody straight in the eye. Jack Twist on the other hand is more open and gregarious character, willing to build a long lasting relationship with Ennis Del Mar, in which he fails repeatedly due to the rough time period the tale takes place. These two men unexpectedly fall in love in the summer of 1963, while sheepherding in the grasslands and mountainous terrain of Wyoming, which are clearly depicted through the film's mesmerizing pastoral cinematography. When the summer is over each man is faced with a painful decision of taking a separate path, which leads to both men getting married, having children and raising their own families. However, they still manage to keep in touch through mail and they visit frequently. In one of those visits, Alma Del Mar played stunningly by Michelle Williams, the woman who Ennis Del Mar marries and has two daughters with, comes to a startling revelation upon seeing her husband in a compromising position with Jack Twist outside her household, knowing that her husband cannot love her in return. Anne Hathaway equally excels in her portrayal of Lureen Newsome, the wife of Jack Twist who bears his only son, in a role that is more mature and far more different than her role in the previously known 2001 Blockbuster hit that made her famous, The Princess Diaries. The two men keep their secretive relationship ongoing for a twenty year period and the actors do very well in aging their characters, whether it is through the use of makeup, growing facial hair or deepening the voices and strengthening their accents. The movie's cliff hanger ending and soaring musical score is bound to haunt and puzzle viewers for a long time to come, with a bone-chilling effect that commences immediately after the film's screening, leaving viewers in awe and goosebumps. Overall, Heath Ledger delivers one of the best performances in the history of modern cinema as Ennis Del Mar; it is characterized as an "acting miracle" and critics have rightfully rated it equal to the greatest performances of actors Marlon Brando and Sean Penn respectively. Brokeback Mountain is an epic movie that really tugs at the heartstrings filled with drama, adventure, passion, sorrow, mystery, suspense, concealment, resentment, heartbreak, hardship, betrayal with a presence of several elements of humor and wit. The acting performances by the cast members are all superb, done with maximum soul on their part. Honestly, although I was initially hesitant to see this movie when it was originally released due to its controversial subject matter however, I'm really glad I did. Contrary to being labeled and parodied as a "gay cowboy movie," after a couple of scenes the characters' sexual orientation becomes ambiguous, since although they differ from other individuals in that aspect they are still part of the human race, struggling to make a decent living in 1963 Wyoming. The movie lives up to its theme that love is nothing but a force of nature. I was blown away and found it to be one of the most powerful, touching and melancholic movies I have ever seen in my life. This movie is a must see for any individual that has an open mind, who is not offended by some scenes that depict violence,  strong language and some brief nudity, and generally any individual willing to see an overall well crafted movie. I give it "two thumbs up."