All bad reviews of "Species 3" are right.

1 minus star rating because this movie is the weakest of all 3, it stinks if you will and has no socially redeeming features. Well, so what. It's entertaining, interesting and has lots of nudity. We need to see naked women because the moral police wants all of us to be clean and innocent choir boys. In the back of my mind I have a notion that a lot of Muslim boys have never seen women in their lives. No wonder they volunteer for suicide bombings.

I will give 1 minus star to MGM for being stingy with the budget. All reviews I have read until now, don't bother mentioning this fact. You get the truth by listening to the comments of director Brad Turner.

As an example, there is one scene where you see a gasoline hose spilling fuel on the ground and expect an explosion. Nothing. The director says, however, they wanted an explosion but could not do it due to budget constraints.

C'mon, MGM, don't kill a good thing. Improve it. You can do it! Give this guys more money!

5-stars for the work done by Sunny Mabrey as Sara, the alien. Her character has not only remarkable but extremely difficult scenes. She succeeds with flying colors. Besides that, she has a perfect figure and I am deeply in love with her. If all aliens are like Sunny, we should open our doors to them without hesitation.

A second alien, a real mean one, portrayed by Amelia Cooke, is outstanding. This lady not only has a perfect figure but her acting is superb. I am deeply in love with her too. My door is wide open.

Anoter 1 minus star because there is no frontal nudity. With so much uninhibited beauty around, to be prudish is a felony.

If the way of the future is HD-direct-to-video filming of this kind, I am all for it. For once, we will have no stupid censorship and, as grown-ups are supposed to be able to do, we shall choose what we want to watch without well-intentioned zealots telling us what is good for us.

This movie stands below S1 and S2, but it was done with honesty. The crew not only had to struggle with a limited budget but also they filmed it in 28 days. I am sure the director could have introduced still more nudity (not a bad idea) but decided not to do so. That's honesty and confirms my 5-star rating.