I originally wrote this review rather heated (at the time of purchase) and I would like to better clarify reasons as to why I gave it one star.

The documentary itself in it's original form is not horrible, it does show graphic imagery and if you are someone new to the subject, then it will educate. For me I think it is the vast amount of footage that I've already seen on the Holocaust and most of that footage has been DE-classified updated footage that is much more horrific. That being the case, their is much more new information available in other documentaries more current, as I myself think this is quite out of date. I purchased this upon rave reviews from others and judging from those I thought this would be a good purchase. As a student of this subject, I look for documentary footage that is both explanatory and also historically accurate enough to satisfy the mind. This does neither for me, mainly I believe it is because this film was made to be shown to an audience 60 + years ago. If it were to be judged by that generation I believe that it would have been very groundbreaking and also very disturbing for the audience.

Pros: The pros in this are that it is the original release of Night and fog. If that is what you want to see then this will give that to you. The imagery is quite graphic if you are not used to seeing this genre and it will paint a picture of Nazi cruelty done to people during the war. It does have a new high definition digital transfer accompanied by some special features Which only include some essays (which is nothing of great consequence), an audio track with Alan Resnais and some crew profiles..Beyond that it is the same original piece

Cons: The cons unfortunately heavily outweigh the pros, which is what really down rates this title compared to what is available to the public today. This film doesn't show you anything of great consequence, it is rather dry to be honest. It is a film pulling many punches concerning imagery and what is shown (Especially in the beginning) are just photos that have been shown a thousand times over in recent years. The supposed graphic nature of this is rather misleading if you go by reviews of this title. In actuality you really get about 22 min of just general photos and footage of the subject, absolutely nothing of a really horrible nature. The more graphic and informative footage does not come until about the last nine minutes of the film which isn't all that interesting when you have access to so many more current titles. The explanation of the footage is something that should be expressed, it is very brief and uninformative, which to me is worse than the footage because then their is really no information value to it at all. The film is just too outdated and is a dinosaur, considering what they are charging for it. You get no real value

In conclusion I am forced to give this what it deserves and that is one star. I honestly thought it would be good and I really wanted to like it but their is just to much of a time gap from then to now. You can find the same footage, better described and with much more added content in other films. For example Auschwitz: Inside the Nazi State, Ken Burns The War or even the Rise and Fall of the third Reich has more content and in formation about the Holocaust than this..Memories of The Camps is also available which is much more graphic in nature. In the end I believe money can be better spent on more informative documentary footage. I was very upset when I received this to the point of frustration and borderline outrage on what I just bought.. There is nothing here, save your money