I can't even begin to explain how incredible this Spellbinding movie from Anne Rice is. I'm very glad she has written it. She has a very workable imagination. Anybody can join in to work with her.(almost.) Well, let's get with the cast of this movie,now we have: Tom Cruise as Lestat, Brad Pitt as the remorseful vampire, Louis, Kirsten Dunst as the precocious Claudia and Antonio Banderas as Armand. The movie starts with a character played by Christian Slater, readying his tape recorder,beginning to interview a...vampire. The human-like creature turns to him,revealing himself to be..Louis, Brad's character. He begins to tell his story from his P.O.V. When he was human, he had a wife who died of childbirth, his baby boy or girl never made it either. So, he was already ready for death.That's when a vampire named Lestat decided to answer his prayers. The first time he taken his blood,he asked him,has he had enough. The second time he taken his blood, he told him, " I'm going to give you the choice,I've never had." Lestat gave him another life, ETERNAL LIFE. And for that,Louis sees the last sunrise for himself. I gotta admit, Brad's character has never looked so handsome and beautiful before. What a sexy-looking vampire! Anyway, the vampire saying went, "In order to survive, you must feed!" Louis couldn't bring himself to feed on the blood of humans,leading Lestat to do all the killing. Louis always fed on the blood of poodles, chickens and rats. Lestat found it funny for some reason. When push came to shove, they had their arguments and petty disagreements,talking about survival and being a killer vampire vs. morality. Lestat knew that Louis didn't like the way of survival, but he didn't care. While feeling stressed out, Louis found a little girl named Claudia, with her dead mother. He held her tight and sucked her blood. Lestat found them and started laughing and dancing with the dead corpse,celebrating the triumph of Louis's first taste of human blood. Louis was very depressed with himself and ran off to a sewer drain. Later on, Lestat found him, and told him he had a surprise for him. He took Louis back home and found Claudia, lying on the bed. Louis thought he killed her, but she was half-dead in vampire limbo. So, Lestat gives her a taste of his blood from his cut, she drinks until he shouted enough, and Claudia is transformed to the point of looking like a curly-haired doll with a savage bloodthirst to match. So, without giving the whole movie away, they tried living together, but, being that Lestat's rules were too much, they turned on him and ran, thinking he's dead. Together, Louis and Claudia searched the world for vampires just like them. And they did. First, they found a vampire named Santiago and then a leader named Armand. Armand welcomes them into his theatre and his underground Lair. Claudia doesn't trust Armand and his crew,but Louis says he has no choice but to stay where they are. Meanwhile,he was looking for a new mentor. I believe he found it in Armand, the oldest vampire he never met until that very moment. There's something else that's bugging Claudia, she needs a mother figure. After Louis feeds on the woman, believing himself a heartless vampire,Claudia kisses him. Spolier Alert: If you've never seen this movie and don't want the ending given away,then please read no further! Needless to say Armand's theartre troupe vampires including Santiago turn on Louis,Claudia, and for no real reason the woman 'cause they read their thoughts about they're incident between them and Lestat. So they wall up Louis to put him out of the way, and then they throw Claudia and the woman in a room where the sun comes through over-head. Sadly they both die "burnt to a crisp" with Louis unable to help them. So enraged about what had happened Louis seeks vengance by slicing up and burning those evil theatre troupe vampires. After that Louis not only decides that he was only going to get the worst end of the deal staying with Armand but also dubbed himself as "self-sufficient. After that, he could deal with light, he seen Lestat for the last time,told the ending to Christian's character to publish and also told him that he doesn't want eternal life. When Christian's character drives off into the dawn, Lestat scares him by surprise and takes his blood. He drives the car, listens to the tape and says to him, "I'm going to give you the choice,I never had." If you're a fan of Anne Rice or any other good novelist, this is the movie for you.