I never watched this movie until this past year because I didn't care anything for Oliver Stone.

I never had an opinion about the Kennedy assassination because even though I know where I was when I heard the news, I wasn't old enough, alert enough and astute enough to recognize that the media rolled over and played stupid just like the authorities told them to do. The truth initially and immediately came out on the news but the authorities gave them a different story and EVERYONE in the media exchanged the facts for the lies they were told to report and unfortunately, even a few years ago, before he died, Peter Jennings was still spouting the same lies even though the truth is now all over the Internet.

This isn't about "believe what we tell you," anymore. There is so much information on the Internet and so many people have done their "homework," and a very thorough job has been done by so many that an amazing amount of information has been compiled, including the scores and scores of murders to cover up the complicity of LBJ, the Warren Commission, the Dallas Police Dept., the FBI, the Secret Service and the CIA. (Notice I only mentioned legal authorities, not the mob -- then they later murdered Robert Kennedy. I haven't investigated, but wouldn't be surprised if the same people were responsible for MLK.)

It's been absolutely devastating. It's no wonder so many people refuse to deal with it, look at it or consider it. What patriotic American wants to think our government is just as wicked as the Soviet Union or any other "evil empire"? It's hard to take; it's hard to face; it's hard to swallow, but the evidence is absolutely overwhelming. Our government is evil and the news media is complicit even though they pretend to be the watchdog of the public interest. What a lie.

In the investigation I did in only the last two years (simply because I was hearing so much about the assassination that I thought I'd finally start paying attention, previously having no opinion about it), it was heart-wrenching, being a law-abiding citizen who easily choked up or teared up when either the National Anthem or America the Beautiful was played. I thought we really were a great nation.

I'm not a racist and there are good black men for whom I would vote, for president, but I was flabbergasted and appalled when Obama was elected (even though Obama isn't black, but Mulatto, blacks have identified with him for the worst of reasons). It was obvious from the get go that this man was a liar and a fraud and an evil man unqualified to be president, even before I knew anything about his hiding his past.

Yet, who in government or the media has made the deal out of the many issues that expose this man simply isn't qualified to be president and isn't a man of character and honor? The most powerful man in the world has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to hide his past and neither our representatives nor the media care?!?! This is so terribly wrong!

It was after this national travesty, at which I was completely dumbfounded that I started looking at the Kennedy assassination.

Friends, all the evidence is there. The government not only murdered the president but every president since, I'm convinced, knew about it and I think this is what emboldened the Clintons in their many crimes. "No biggie. We can get away with it." And they have gotten away with so much -- that is also all over the Internet, but the news media won't tell you and your elected representatives won't tell you either EVEN THOUGH THEY KNOW.

Now, Obama, lying through his teeth and claiming he's a Christian, has openly mocked the Bible but his every reference to the qur'an is preceded by the word "Holy." He's the first president in history to announce to our enemies that we are not a Christian nation and he's the only president to bow to an islamic leader, and celebrate and honor islamic holidays in the White House while snubbing traditional Christian events.

What's the media's response to this? Are they really our watchdogs? Do we want an islamic America? Doe America understand the consequences of endorsing and embracing a religion that is dedicated to our destruction because we are "the great satan"? Am I saying something that you haven't heard?

I'm still shaking my head in disbelief. Why did we put an enemy of this country in the White House?

Please note when this started. Prayer in public school and Bible reading in public school were dishonestly and wrongly declared unconstitutional in 1962 and 1963 and Kennedy was assassinated in 1963. Do your homework and examine any area you please regarding stability, security, trouble, crime, education, business, accomplishments, science, morals, ethics, etc., in the decades before '63 and the decades afterwards. It's night and day difference.

That you should be scared because of the facts that the news media doesn't want you to see and realize tells me they're the only reason the government has gotten away with destroying this country.

Examine any area you want. We were the world leader in virtually every positive way. Today we're the world leader in MANY evil ways.

If you haven't gotten it by now, JFK tells the truth and the government is STILL LYING ABOUT IT AS IS THE NEWS MEDIA. Most of the people who would be harmed by the truth are dead, but not all of them. But you won't hear a word of truth about it from the news media.

Our enemy is in the White House and both he and his wife hate what this nation *used* to stand for. There never was a time when everything was right about our nation, but now, is there anything right for which our nation stands?

The banks and financial institutions have been shown to be crooked and yet who is being punished? The American taxpayer. Thanks Obama.