This is one powerful film! It take your basic story of the rough climb to the top of he music industry and the hidden anguish endured to get there. What makes this film stand out is the incredible acting, terrific music preformances, it's refusal gloss things over and, most importantly, it's all true.
It's based on Tina's autobiography 'I Tina'. From the abuse and downright touture she had to endure at the hands of her monsterous husband Ike Turner (all the while having to go out on stage and preform) it's astounding that she survived let alone thrived. But what I found just as hurtful, and possibly even more so, is the treatment she gets from her own mother. This is a woman who abandons her daughter at a very young age and upon their reuniting pushes her to STAY in the abusive relationship so she can reap the benefits of new homes, nice clothes and such! Tina had a hard life all around. It wasn't just Ike. That's what's so great about this film. It gives you the entire picture. Well almost, the autobiography goes into even more detail. As far as the DVD goes, the only extra included is the original threatrical trailer. The transfer though is prestine showing deep blacks and bright colors. Sound is in 5.1 surround and really showed off in the preformance segments. Speaking of which, they are terrific! They bring much energy and fun to the picture so you never get bogged down with the much more dreary aspects.
Angela Basset give a pssionate, energetic and moving preformace as Tina. Only occationally did I feel she was not Tina. Laurance Fishburn is devesatingly brutal, but charming as well. You understand why Tina fell for him in the first place. Get this film and you will never be able to see Tina the same again. Her songs take on different meanings. I can now see her as a real person and not a star. I only appreciate her more than ever after seeing this film. It's a shame the academy passed over What's Love Got To Do With It as picture of the year. Don't you make the same mistake.