'Monty Python's Life of Brian' is quite possibly the best comedy ever made, although it is not the funniest.  It is not even the funniest Python movie; that honor goes to 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail.'  Many would agree with this and thus contend that 'Holy Grail' is the better film, but in terms of the depth of its social commentary and the wryness of its satire it pales in comparison to 'Life of Brian.'

  'Life of Brian' brilliantly exposes the absurd and hypocritical side of religious fanatacism, a theme that predictably incited the protests of the right-wing Christian nutbag faction, who are always on hand to declare that anything they disagree with is evil.  What is often overlooked is that the movie doesn't attack Christianity, it attacks the warping and misuse of that religion by its followers.  Christ makes an appearance at the beginning and ends up the only character in the entire film not infused with Monty Python cartoonishness.  It is obvious that he is not the central focus.  Instead we are given fanatics so sheeplike and braindead they've declared Brian a Messiah before they know anything about him, and are prepared to kill before accepting the viewpoint that he might just be a man.  I suppose this will rattle a right wing Christian about as much as an attack on Jesus himself.

  Of course the social insights are far from the only reason to view Life of Brian; it is also extremely funny and an excellent party movie.  The quotable dialogue is constant and the memorable scenes are innumerable.  The sarcastic cellmate, the cheerful crucifee, the taunter of big-nosed people, and Pontius Pilate and his friend Biggus Dickus all recall unforgettable moments.  The final crucifixion scene is an absolute stunner, and one of the most remarkable things you'll ever see in a comedic film.  It's funny, touching, poignant and has more to say about the meaning of life than most films by 'serious' directors.  It will also have you whistling for several days, so beware.