"I have been & always shall be your friend. Live long & prosper."

"Of my friend..., I can only say this. Of all the souls I have encountered in my travels. His was the most- .... human."

- Captain Spock says goodbye to his close friend while Admiral Kirk honors the fallen in "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan".

After 22 summers (to the day) "Star Trek II:The Wrath of Khan" is still the movie that "Star Trek: The Motion Picture" wanted to be and after ten films in the "Star Trek" saga, "II" is still the film that all other "Trek" films are measured up to (for me personally, this one is tied for first with "Star Trek: First Contact").

Admiral Kirk and the crew of The Enterprise face an old enemy (Khan Noonian Singh) from the television series (see the episode entitled "Space Seed").

Simplistic plot, but, what makes the film work so well is:

1. - The crew act there age & try not to be the young crew they tried to be in "The Motion Picture".

2. - Admiral Kirk has a mid-life crisis as his past catches up with him in the form of the son he hardly knows.

3. - Khan seeks revenge for the death of his wife (the Enterprise historian from the T.V. episode). Wouldn't you?

4. - Aside from the senior staff, The Enterprise crew is made of cadets, giving the film an extra element of danger(the plotpoint w/ Scotty's cadet nephew is one of the extended scenes in the film).

5. - The senior staff, unlike in the T.V. series, is expendable (Scotty gets a bout of radation poisining, Checkov becomes Khan's hostage, and Spock, ..., well you know. I won't give that away for the 2 people who haven't watched the film).

6. - The Genesis Project is one of the most dangerous of all "Trek" weapons, yet, it was never meant to be one.

7. - The battle in the Mutara Nebula is classic "Star Trek" all the way (the Nebula is featured again in one of the episodes from "Star Trek: The Next Generation". I think, it might be The Best of Both Worlds Part I).

8. - Cherish what you have before its gone and a renewed sense of purpose is never a bad thing.

Quite a lot of detail was put into this film.
Gone are the disco style uniforms from the previous film. In its place, are the now classic, military/naval style uniforms complete with rank pips and badges.
The effects are a lot better than in "TMP". The first digital effects featured in a film are of the Genesis Proposal and were made by Pixar (the company would go on to super success with, the 1995 film, "Toy Story").

Origianlly titled the "Undiscovered Country", but, was replaced by the title "Vengeance of Khan". It was retitled to "The Wrath of Khan" when Paramount found out that the last "Star Wars" film would be titled "Revenge of The Jedi" (that would be changed to "Return of The Jedi").

This 2 disc extended edition of "Star Trek II" has everything but the kitchen sink thrown in (its lightyears ahead of the drab first DVD release). What I like most about these special releases is the triva track option that can run at the bottom of the screen without blocking out any of the screen itself.

This version of "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan", is a 2 disc set that will live long & prosper. Steady as she goes, Mr. Sulu.