Lars von Trier filmed 'Dancer in the Dark' in the intriguing tradition of the Dogma School - a group of young, mostly European filmmakers intensely commited to realism. The distinctive style they achieve relies heavily on two techniques: firstly, the Dogma directors emphasize stripped-down cinematography (hand-held cameras, natural or unembellished lighting); secondly, Trier and his colleagues encourage their actors towards highly understated dialogue, heavy on improvisation. The result is remarkable, and 'Dancer in the Dark' remains a fine example of Dogma filmmaking. I write this to illustrate that my beef with 'Dancer' does not stem from Trier's sense of style or format (many other negative reviewers have complained about the film's cinematography and jumbled speech).
Nor am I bothered by Bjork's musical intergections. The surrealist song and dance vingettes take a moment to adjust to, and though not all of them work, even the lousiests sequences are bold and at least a little clever. Selma's funky daydreaming forms the heart and soul of 'Dancer,' and the stylistic contrast between the song and non-song episodes is jarring and inspired.
All told, I think 'Dancer in the Dark' is well concieved and follows a highly unique formula for which Trier and his talented cast deserve much praise.
There is, however, more to a great or even good movie than high-concept, no matter how high or how clever, or even how beautiful. 'Dancer in the Dark' shoots itself in the foot with a very high caliber weapon very near the aproximate point in the film when all should have been drawn to a close. There is a very well-rendered story which unfolds for just short of the initial 2 hours, full of extreme human interest and emotional tension. Will Selma be taken advantage of? Will she go completely blind? Will she find her way home every day without being flattened by a freight train? One waits in agony for her to have her arms crushed in a press or at least drop her (useless) glasses into a machine. Her financial crusade is naive and sweet. Selma's daily life is rich and, though full of color, believable.
Why Lars von Trier felt the need to truncate this energy by resorting to a maddeningly predictable, tediously linear final third is the real intruige of 'Dancer in the Dark'. The film is absoultely derailed by a sensational plot device I would contend, in contradiction to my fellow reviewers, is anything but fresh and naturalistic. The microscope we view Selma under for so long is taken away, and Trier whisks us through time lapses and strung-together episodes culminating in a melodramatic finale sequence which comes as no surprise at all. Selma's fate, barreling down the road, highbeams on, is a dramatic turkey, gratuitous, self-absorbed, predictable.
Why does 'Dancer' hara-kiri itself? Why didn't someone at Trier's side suggest, after, say, the arrest scene - "hey Lars, this is kind of nice what we've got here. How bout we not over-indulge?" And why does no one else seem to care?