Highlander 2: The Quikening, has now been officially renamed

to simply: Highlander 2. The edition I am reviewing, is stating, it's "The Renegade Edition".  However it was released only last year (2005 at the time of writing) and seems to fit with what folks are saying for this edition.  I also own the original theatrical version and it's nice that the shield is now blue as opposed to the original red, which was possibly the silliest move in the movies creation ever.  Good ridance to that.

I did like the fact that Highlander became a Sci-Fi as I'm a big fan of the genre.  This is why many folks did not like this sequal. Not necessarily because the film is bad(I for one, disagree with this), simply because it took there beloved fantasy and turned it into something which was explainable within a Sci-Fi context.  To this day, it's still the wish of the majority of Highlander fans that this film simply be dropped from the Highlander canon.

For those fans, please do take a look at this edition. The added material is fantastic and a god send for this sequal.  Now the movie has a story which follows on from the original while still keeping the planet Zeist and the explanation of where the immortals come from intact. It also has a much better beginning and keeps McCloud more authentic.

The scene were the hole in the shield is investigated is superb and the working of the Sci-Fi concepts into the story finally makes sense.  Admittedly it's not perfect sense with the feel that there should be a little more on the war on Zeist and tie-ins when McCloud is remembering that peice the build up to the creation of the shield with the events in the first movie.  However as a big fan of the movie "Cashern", one thing I do like in movie is when not everything is explained in detail and things just happen.  Life is like that.  Things are not always explained in painful detail and most of the time, events occur around us in ways that we are not expecting.

Overall I would actually rate this movie 3.5, however the rating system only allows full stars.  What it could still do with is more fillers(if only there was more footage).  For example, the only scene that gets on my nerves now is where all our heroes are stuck in a detention cell in a maximum security centre and a spinning blade that covers the entire ceiling is spinning down to chop them into little peices.  I liked how Sean Connerys character comes to the rescue with his style and flare, however it would have been better if they could have shown him transporting back to Zeist and a brief session with the council.

The over the top ending where guards are being fired at all over the place etc, has gone and we are presented with a straight show down and the destruction of the now defunct shield generator.

Besides the miraculous rescue scene where Connery disappears and the lack of build up in the relationship between McCloud and his new girlfriend(they begin kissing passionately after they have only just met, but I said to myself, it's because he's a recharged immortal and like Bond, has this way with women. What else could it be?)

The deleted scenes were nice and there were some really great scenes in there.  I was totally horrified however at an alternate ending scene were McCloud and his newly aquainted girlfriend turn into spirits and twirl off into the stars. Apparently that's what happens in America when the theatrical is broadcast on national television.(Fellow fans you need to see this version).

Thankfully that ending is not in either of the versions I saw and I never want to see it again.

Overall for those of you who liked the idea of the sequal despite it's terrible editing originally, you will adore this.  For those of you who didn't like the change from fantasy to Sci-Fi, you may find some good in this but are highly advised to stick to the original only.

Sean.