I've seen all the movies in this series several times (except for Alien: Resurrection, which I have attempted to block from my consciousness completely), and somehow this one has ended up as my favourite. It isn't perfect by any means -- but it could have been. Many reviewers have already mentioned the style of the direction and the dark, brooding atmosphere of the production. There are scenes in this film that leave me quite breathless, such as the autopsy and of course the ending. Yes, the premise of the plot is ridiculous (a semi-abandoned prison planet with a foundry and a bizarre monastic subculture??? OhhhKayyy...), but if you are prepared to suspend your disbelief that far, you have to admit it creates a great claustrophobic, creepy setting with some fascinating characters.
The quality of the acting was superb all-around; this film has a fabulous cast of supporting actors, including Charles Dance, Charles Dutton, Paul McGann, and the woefully underused Pete Postlethwaite. I would have liked to see more of most of these characters, and I found them much more three-dimensional than most of the cast of the first two films. I loved the relationship between Ripley and the doctor, although I was disappointed at the rather pointless way he died. I would have preferred to see this character die in a more heroic or useful way, but I think it is a testimony to Dance's performance that I actually cared about his character.
Many people have complained about the way Hicks and Newt were killed off, claiming this negates the entire emotional involvement of Ripley in the second movie. I don't agree. To me, it served to drive the point home that this creature has managed to destroy everything and everyone that Ripley cares about. It adds to the generally bleak atmosphere of this film, in comparison with the others. Alien was a slasher flick set in space. Aliens was a bug-hunt with a happy ending (not that there's anything wrong with that). Alien 3 evoked the true horror of the creature--the impossibility of escape--and the true horror of humanity as well.
As for the script...well, there are some memorable pieces of dialogue. There is some bad writing as well, mostly caused by the haste of the studio to wrap up the project. Near the end it degenerates into another bug-hunt, but with some very spooky scenes. The echoing voices, the torches, the moving shadows, all very well done. The alien itself wasn't so impressive, true. It was more frightening when it was only hinted at, rather than seen. But to be honest, I didn't find the CGI aliens in the fourth movie so impressive, either. 
So...you'll decide for yourself whether you like this one or not. Everyone seems to have a strong opinion on it. Mine is that this could have a brilliant movie, which ended up being brilliant only in spots and mediocre in others...but for me, the brilliant spots are worth more than the other films combined.