In a lot of ways the planet of the apes series is a lot like the old "Star Trek" TV series, some of them are well written, thought provoking, but also, sometimes cheesey and low budget.
PLANET OF THE APES
The first movie, and probably the best, features Charlton Heston (in all of his scenery-chewing glory) as a (1970's!) astronaut on an interstellar mission to do something or other who crash lands on a mysterious planet inhabited by mute humans and talking, dominant apes.  Taylor is captured by the apes and when it is learned that he can speak, he challenges the whole social order of the ape society.  The apes inhabit a Flintstone-esque city and are divided into three different castes, the Orangutangs, who are the politicans and keepers of the faith, and seemingly the caste in absolute control, the Gorillas, whoa re the workers and the soldiers, and who seem to occupy the lowest position, and the Chimpanzees, who are the scientists and intellectuals.  The movie features a lot of veiled and not-so-veiled political and social commentary.  It's a fun and well-written movie.
BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES
This and the last movie are probably the weakest chapters.  In this second installment, ANOTHER astronaut crashes on the the planet looking for Charton Heston's character.  The problem with this movie is that it is both too similar, and way too different from the first movie.  There are sequences in this movie involving some mutants that are Mystery Science Theater 2000 worthy.  It has some interesting (if not at all subtle) commentary on war and militarism.  The ending is quite a surprise and does not set itself up for a sequel.
ESCAPE FROM PLANET OF THE APES
This may be the best of the five.  "Escape" is very different from all the other movies, for the most part, it is much lighter in tone and more fun and witty.  It has some of the same feel that "Star Trek IV" had.  This one finds the two chimpanzees, Vera and Cornelius on Earth in a refurbished spacecraft and their subsequent adventures in Los Angeles before a paranoid government worker senses their offspring will dominate the Earth.  In this installment, the two chimpanzees played by Roddy McDowell and Linda Hunt take center stage with their absolutely charming performances.  The end is a downer though.
CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES
This is the darkest and most overtly political chapter featuring Roddy McDowell as the son of Vera and Cornelius, who leads a revolt among the ape slaves in a futuristic Earth.  This is both a sequel and a prequel to the original movie as it shows how the apes came into power to begin with.  Once you get past the improbable premise-ape slaves anyone? and the "futuristic" design of the film, this one is the most socially relevant and the most contemporary of all of them.  The imagery is straight from the Twentieth Century, rioting, police brutality, torture, war, revolution.  And it seems that the revolutionary tone and the violence were toned down from the original cut of the move.
BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES
This is the worst of the five.  It's seriously dumbed down and made innoculous from the previos entry.  Something about apes and mutants and humans.  It would have been better if they had taken a cue from the previous movie and fleshed out the backstory a little, for example explain how the social order in the original film came to be, or how the humans became mute savages.  They should have had more fun with the idea of a prequel.
Anyway, this set also come with a great documentary that touches upon all the movies and features interviews with the cast, make-up tests, and everything.  This is a great set.