Tim Burton's second film this year is another stop-motion feature like "The Nightmare Before Christmas", and in many ways, it's like an unofficial sequel. It has a spindly protagonist in a mysterious forest, a moon-faced heroine (two, in fact), a score peppered with Danny Elfman songs, a skewed take on a time-honored tradition, and a unique blend of the grotesque and the sweet.

The film gets off to a wobbly start as Victor Van Dort (voiced by Johnny Depp) is introduced to his bride-to-be Victoria Everglot (Emily Watson). The Van Dorts have made their fortunes in fishmongering, and are eager the ascend the social ladder. The Everglots are destitute, and see the Van Dort fortune as the only way for the Everglot name to regain its lustre. All the in-laws sing as they gather for the reheasal, and their perspectives on the marriage are underscored in the song "Nothing To Chance". Unfortunately, it's not a particularly catchy tune, so it doesn't set the stage well.

Neither family is particularly interested in whether or not this couple of convenience love one another. Fortunately, Victor becomes fond of Victoria immediately after meeting her. However, he is so beset with the gravity of the situation that he can hardly keep his marriage vows straight. He is so discombobulated, in fact, that he is told to continue practicing until the wedding. This is where Victor's troubles -- and the film's pleasures -- truly begin.

Victor accidentally weds himself to Emily (Helena Bonham-Carter), the corpse of a bride who has resolved not to rest until someone asks to wed her once more. Initially terrifed by his zombie spouse (her introduction is delightfully creepy), he attempts to find a way to dissolve the union. Distraught that Victor is no longer eligible, the Everglots begin to consider other, more dubious marriage options for their daughter. Meanwhile, Victor begins to discover that Emily has charms of her own.

In most ways, "Corpse Bride" is superior to its predecessor. The animation and art direction take the "Nightmare" look and movement to new levels of sophisitication, especially in the acting. The stop-motion puppets, rather than replacing whole heads to create dialogue and facial expressions, have improved, uh, skulls with internal mechanisms that can be manipulated for greater subtlety. This, combined with more refinement in the pantomime work, leads to many beautiful scenes, including one where Victor and Emily play a duet on a piano. The animation goes a long way in making rotting, maggot-laden Emily attractive and a dead pet's peppy bounding cute.

The story is also much clearer and more streamlined than the song-laden "Nightmare." It's a sufficiently old-fashioned plot to make a fine, uh, skeleton for Nelson Lowry's English/Gothic art direction. The comings and goings between the lands of the living and the dead are unclear in their rules, but they don't impede the entertainment. It's a happy surprise to see that (unlike many films of this type) the choice between Emily and Victoria is not an easy one -- both characters are presented as appealing and sympathetic.

The main weaknesses of the film are the songs by Danny Elfman. While several in "Nightmare" are catchy and charming, the best numbers in "Bride" feel a bit like wordy castoffs from his earlier score. The orchestral work, though, is fine and does a great job of supporting the spooky humor of the film. While "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" was enjoyable, "Corpse Bride" feels like a film much closer to Tim Burton's heart. And it shows.