An excellent movie even if some important facts e.g. 1918 election which legitimised the Old IRA back then were omitted.

We were a colony in the sense that we had never consented incorporation into the UK. The Irish Parliament that voted the Union through in 1800 was exclusively a Protestant one, the Catholic majority (80%) having been banned from it. Also, the parliament was bribed with money, land and titles to get it to vote for Union. And the Loyalist UVF also brought in arms and ammunition from Germany through the port of Larne, Co.Antrim, including over a million rounds of ammunition and 35,000 rifles. The difference being that the British army left them alone when the guns were being brought in but opened fire when the Irish Volunteers (previous name of the Old IRA) brought in arms - far fewer by the way. And anyway, the UVF was formed before the IRA to resist Home Rule by force, so it wasn't just our side that was setting up armies to resist UK law. Also, you say the Home Rulers were elected and that the IRA "seized power". In fact, in the 1918 elections (unfortunately not covered in the movie), the Home Rulers went from 73 MPs to 6, and SF took all the lost seats. So there was clearly a democratic mandate to break away from Britain.

Collins was not a terrorist because the mark of a terrorist is the intentional targeting of innocent civilians, which he did not do. In fact after independence and during the Southern Civil War against the Anti-Treaty IRA, the Irish Government actually established security-forces to protect Southern Protestants, e.g. in Co.Louth. I reject your claim about 140,000 Protestants being driven out. 50,000 of those who left were in the British army or in the families of their soldiers and were relocated to Northern Ireland. After the US became independent, a lot of former Loyalists left for Canada. After colonies become independent, many of those formerly loyal to the old regime tend to leave the country. The same happened in the former Soviet states where millions of ethnic-Russians have moved to the Russian Federation, e.g. in Kazakhstan, the Russian population has fallen from over 50% to 30%. So this is not unique to Ireland. Many Protestants did leave Southern Ireland after partition, but in the main this was voluntary and based on a feeling of not being at home in a state where they would be in the minority, and because they were mainly Unionists who wanted to live in the part of Ireland remaining in the UK. If we were to follow your line of reasoning, does this mean that Northern Irish Catholics were well treated by the Belfast Parliament from 1922-72. as the Catholic population there has grown from 31% to 41%? Certainly most historians would strongly disagree, considering the gerrymandering, discrimination in housing, burning down of Catholic areas e.g. Bombay Street in the 1960's, and the continued ethnic-cleansing of Irish Catholics from places like Carrickfergus, Larne and Ahoghill in Co.Antrim. As late as 1993, Catholics were only 7% of the RUC (the police), and the Loyalist terror group the UDA, which has killed hundreds of Catholics, was a legal organisation until 1990. The British security forces in Northern Ireland colluded with Loyalist terror groups to murder Catholics, as shown in the Stevens Report. The Stevens Inquiry was commissioned by the British government but several attempts were made to sabotage the investigation, including arson.

The primary reason for the decline in the Protestant population in the South is a consistent pattern of Protestants marrying Catholics, with the children having tended until recently to have been brought up as Catholics under the Ne Temere Decree of the Catholic Church requiring this. As the Catholic Church's influence has dissipated in recent years following scandals, the Protestant population is growing again. This graph http://www.wesleyjohnston.com/users/ireland/past/protestants_1861_1991.html#decline_roi

illustrates the decline in the Southern Irish Protestant population, and contrasts with your assertions on 140,000 Protestants leaving the State shortly after independence. As shown, their % of the South's population started at 10% (300,000). 140,000 would constitute a 50% decline to 5%. However, the 5% figure was only reached around 1950. This does not support the theory of mass-expulsions in the years immediately proceeding 1921 and independence, therefore.

Regarding Irish people who fought in WW1, most Catholics doing so did this because the Home Rule leader, John Redmond, argued it would influence Britain to look more favourably on the demand for 32 county Home Rule instead of partitioning Ireland, as well as Redmond's drawing of parallels between Ireland and Belgium - countries that were both trying to attain their freedom (from Germany in Belgium's case). Hence, in both senses, Catholics joining the British army felt they were fighting for the "freedom of small nations". They were certainly not fighting to preserve the oppressive British empire.