Wow~I don't know what I can add here that hasn't already been put in words so wonderfully by so many other reviewers that loved this movie as much as I did.  I became a fan of Steve Carrell after seeing him a few scant years ago in the hilarious "40 Year Old Virgin", and it's interesting to watch his progress as an actor/comedian with each film role he's been in since "Virgin" made him a breakout star.  In "Dan In Real Life", he plays a widowed father/advice columnist of three young daughters who are often wiser in the ways of life than he himself is; this becomes all too clear when he accidentally falls for Marie,  a lovely woman that turns out to be his brother's latest squeeze.  Watching Dan and she try to deal with their attraction to one another whilst in the midst of a family vacation is bittersweet, funny:  I could definitely feel the emotional tension between the two of them as they struggled to hide that fact from the rest of Dan's family.  "Dan In Real Life" is one of the better movies that I have seen in a good while that doesn't have to rely on special effects, and I genuinely came to care about Dan, his family, and wanting him to find true happiness for himself since the untimely death of his beloved wife.  He's the type of guy who puts the needs of his children first, and while that is a wonderful thing, I just wanted to see the obvious sadness, lonliness in his eyes go away.  The cast in this movie is truly outstanding in portraying a warm, loving, very human family.  Thankfully, there are some particularly hilarious scenes/dialogue that made me laugh out loud and helped to lighten what could have otherwise been a somber, depressing flick.  I agree with one other reviewer here who stated that you can really see Carrell widen his range of emotions in "Dan" and show that he can be both moving/hysterical at the same time.  I knew once it was over that I just had to go out and add it to my DVD collection, as I felt very happy, satisfied, and uplifted by this sweet, smart, incredibly funny and ultimately heartwarming movie.  Steve Carrell was amazing as "Dan", and I do believe this is one of his finest acting performances yet.  I have the distinct feeling that he is going to be garnering nothing but more diverse roles from here on out, and I for one couldn't be happier for him.