After seeing plenty of Listmania lists and reviews here on Amazon calling this one of, if not THE best zombie movie ever made I took the plunge and bought it.  But after seeing it, I call it total garbage

Lousy zombie make-up, lousy photography, lousy acting, lousy music, poor dubbing, barely coherent story.  I just don't understand what people like about this movie. Yeah so there's one actress who spews sheep's guts out her mouth for gore effect.  And there's a totally pointless scene where some dude gets murdered by having a drill go right through his head.  And in another scene some chick starts crying blood tears.

At the beginning of the movie a priest hangs himself and this is supposed to somehow unlock the doors of Hell in some small New England town (which we never really get to see due to the ultra-limited budget) which  is supposed to be populated by people who are descendants of those who murdered alleged witches during the Salem witch trials.  But this plot point is never really developed, and instead the film is just a string of meaningless deaths and unconvincing gore.

For some unexplained reason, these bargain-basement quality zombies have the ability to teleport from place to place in the blink of an eye.  Did the director intend this to be some kind of "deep" symbolism only Europeans can understand or what?  For me it just made these el cheapo looking zombies even more ridiculous and unbelievable.  And do these zombies want to eat people? Nope, just pull off the backs of their heads. -- Say what?  (I'm guessing it was probably the only decent gore effect the untalented special effects department could pull off on their shoestring budget.)

A typical scene in the movie runs something like this: Dead priest teleports in, hanging from the noose.  Chick screams.  He teleports out of the noose.  Close-up of his face lit with blue lights.  Ooh, SCA~RY!  More of the chick screaming.  Cheap, fake-looking zombie pops in out of nowhere.  Cut to pointless unrealistic gore scene.  And on to the next murder, yadda-yadda....

I know there must be some good zombie movies out there, but this certainly isn't one of them.

One of the best zombie movies of all time? Hah, not a chance!