I'd seen this film once as a child since it is one of my mother's favorites and recently we obtained a copy.  I'd only remembered the goose! Upon seeing it again, I can safely say this is a classic to be viewed numerous times.  It never slides into mockery and presents the Quakers as a family struggling with temptations forbidden by their religion from dancing to violence. The trip to the fair is a wonderful example of this: Little Jess's adventure with gambling, Josh's friend Caleb wrestling and their fight with other spectators, the father, Jess, played wonderfully by Gary Cooper, squirrel shooting and singing with friend and racing competitor, Sam Jordan, and the daughter Mattie dancing with epitomy of non-Quakerness, a Methodist Union Officer.
The trip Josh takes with his father to Ohio and meets a widow and her three very single daughters is delightful.  Anthony Perkins is fabulous as he tries to keep away from the girls who hardley ever seen men!
THings turn serious as the Civil War which was always somewhat distant (even with Gard, Mattie's suitor and Sam Jordan's son, coming home on furlough wounded in battle) finally comes to fore. Enoch, the hired hand and runaway slave, must leave to save himself from the Confederates and Josh must choose between his country and his religion.  The war literally comes to their front porch as Eliza, the mother and minister, Mattie and Little Jess are left defenseless at home.
One of the best parts is the culmination of the courtship between Gard and Mattie where he asks her to marry him.  What will they go through during and after the war as Mattie will have to reconcile the conflict between her religion and Gard's occupation and what will her family's reaction be? There's a sense that her father doesn't mind Gard and would welcome a marriage between Gard and his only daughter.  She could honestly not do better.  The man is the son of her father's friend and is highly trusted by the family.
The characters and stories are delightful and I've rewatched this film several times over and still find great things in it every time. Well worth owning.