I went and watched this movie at 12:00 AM on 06/06/06 and was more than satisfied.  As other reviews say, it is lacking in the psychological horror area..  but it excels as a jumpy scary movie, which are more fun to see in my opinion.  Even still, this is the main reason I only give it 4 stars.

666) Despite other reviews, however, I feel that Mia Farrow's performance as the "evil nanny" was the worst of the characters.  She just felt out of place and didn't strike me as creepy or evil..  Instead, she just seemed..  not right in the head.
666) Looking back, I do see a couple flaws in Robert Thorne's(Liev Schreiber) character -- but I didn't notice as I watched the movie, so I am not too bothered by it.  His character is pretty dull for being such a leading role and, might I mention, he is quite flaky.
666) I liked Kate Thorne's(Julia Styles) character and thought it seemed realistic enough given what was going on around her.  Her son is the antichrist for god's sake!
666) I thought Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick did a VERY nice job playing Damien.  I think the character could have been better, but that is probably not his fault and more the director's.  I know a lot of reviews complain about his character, but they are expecting him to be scarier than I think he was meant to be.  He looks angry in most scenes where he probably should have been creepy and scary..  which makes his character different.  Not bad.. just different.

I was adequately scared and had fun watching this movie.  I will atleast rent it when it comes out..  maybe even buy it.
Recommended.  Four stars.

--Edit--
I have just watched the original.  I would NOT recommend that movie to anyone but classic horror movie lovers.  Judging from other reviews, it obviously, at one time, was a high-rating horror film.  No longer!  The soundtrack is dated and old.  It doesn't seem to fit the film anymore.  I found it completely devoid of anything that sparked an emotion even remotely horrific.  In fact.. I found the actors to be quite humurous.  It is not, in any way, even CLOSE to today's standards of horror movies.  To those original Omen lovers, let it go..  The remake brings new light to this movie and gives it potential to be enjoyed by today's audience.

If you want to watch a dated classic horror film, the original is for you.
If you want to see a scary movie, the remake is where it's at.