The entire film has been cropped down from its original much wider aspect ratio to a stubby 16:9 format. The credits are cut off at the edge of the screen. The part at the very beginning that explains "The time is 1860..." is cut off. I have this film on VHS in it's original aspect ratio and there is a lot of space between the edge of the credits and the edge of the screen. I own a region-free DVD player and have always meant to get this direct from Japan where the aspect ratio isn't usually (GitS2 was) cropped. This disc was released just around the time the DVD format was gaining popularity so there really aren't any extras. Hopefully when the 10 year anniversary of Kurosawa's death comes up in a few years they will reissue this film along with Sanjuro and High & Low featuring the type of extras the more recent Criterion releases have enjoyed. Might be on Blu-Ray disc format by then. I personally am looking forward to a good commentary track by Donald Richie, Stephen Prince, Michael Jeck, or even Roger Ebert.

As for the film itself... When people ask me what my favorite movie of all time is I always reply Yojimbo. Which is funny since this is not my favorite Kurosawa film. That honor goes to Drunken Angel. This is my favorite movie because it opened my eyes to the world. I first saw this film in my freshman year of high school. Before seeing it I had no interest in anything that wasn't shinny and new. I didn't like any film, book, or music that wasn't modern and new. After seeing Yojimbo alot of the things I used to hate and thought were boring I actually grew to love. Lawrence of Arabia was better the second time I saw it. The Killer Angels was better the second time I read it. I never really "got" Mash before this. And I became more interested in other genres of music besides rap. Westerns staring Clint Eastwood were once boring, but not anymore. And why not Toshiro Mifune was the Japanese Clint Eastwood... or should that be the other way around? See it for yourelf.