I grew up watching Saturday Morning cartoons, and I cannot think of a greater memory as a kid than watching this incredible series. It was everything a little kid could want, basically a live action dinosaur adventure. 
Land of the Lost worked because everyone involved with it from the directors, to the actors, to the production/EFX people took the series VERY seriously. The plot lines were well thought up and even WAYYY too deep for little 6-11 year olds, involving death, deceit, honor, and brotherhood. The dinosaur Special effects were state of the art in the 70's and still hold up well today. They are very "King Kong 33" like, in that the dinos do look alive, if the tiniest bit animated. The "muppet" close-ups look fake, but are actually charming in a cool/cheesy "70's Sid Marty & Kroff, kinda way. The sets were amazing, and the artwork fantastic, and even the "Pylon" effects worked well within the plotlines. 
But what drove the children and the parents back every Saturday AM was the characters of Marshall Will and Holly. There was genuine rapport, and love, and they made you believe in them, even if they were a bit overdramatic at the time. If dinos and Sleestaks were chasing you, you'd be overdramatic as well. Enoch the Sleestak was WAYYY ahead of his time, as was this series. His philosophies and the plotlines involving him went over my head as a kid, but as an adult, I am REALLY enjoying great scriptwriting. 
Be sure and catch the cool extras, including the live interviews with Wesley Eure, and Kathy Coleman, all grown up, and every bit as beautiful as we knew she would be. And watch as she and Welsey cant seem to keep their hands off each other, or their eyes off each other, watch the classic body language, and you can tell that little 11 year old Kathy had a MAJOR crush on the 70's Hearthrob/Soap Star Will when she was a kid, and basically still does, and I saw it coming a mile away, but she manages to kiss him by the end of the interview, and not exactly a sisterly kiss either.  I'd be willing to put money that these two went out for drinks and dancing after this interview. All in all, a great but, and where is Season 2?