A complete fluff piece of propaganda, on a scale with the best productions by Dr. Goebbels, this film was put together by Jewison, Bernstein, Abraham, Rosenberg, Rivkin, Azoff, and others.

The film dishonors the memory of the three law-abiding White citizens pursuing their happiness peacefully in a bar, who were murdered in cold blood by two black males.  This film is an insult to the victims' families.  Any film made on this bloody, savage crime should focus on THEM.

The victims are only named ONCE, in a matter of seconds, in a courtroom scene.  That is their total screen time, and the value of their lives to these filmmakers.  Using the 'Golden Rule':  Is that the film treatment you would want for YOUR murdered brother, sister, father or mother?

The violent murder scene itself, in the bar, is extraordinarily short and sanitary by Hollywood standards.  What happened to the graphic, detailed depictions that are the overwhelming standard in other Hollywood films?  But this gang didn't want an audience reaction to the horrible murders, did they?

So, we are told, both in the film and liner notes, that "three Canadian activists" take up trying to free Carter, after he'd been found guilty of murder by two lawful juries.  Oddly, we are not told:  WHO is funding the "activists" and how do they earn their livings, much less pay all these travel and lawyer expenses?  What are their day jobs?  The "activists" last names are never given in the film.  How odd!  Are they all Semitic, too, like many of the filmmakers involved?  Bob Dylan in a singing cameo, Ellen Berstyn marching in protest ...and Carter's lawyer?  The federal judge that this group appeared before?  If there is some common thread there, the viewer should be made aware of it, honestly and upfront.

This film does not even come close to making a convincing case that Carter was not involved in the murders of three innocent White people.  Having had two White juries does not mean that Carter was not involved in the bar murders.  Even if there was some element of "racial prejudice" in the trial process -- even if that's taken as a given or proven -- that still does not mean that Carter was not involved in the murders, nor exonerate him from the evil crime.  Instead, this propaganda film asks the viewer to believe that, somehow, the "three Canadian activists" proved that Carter was INNOCENT (sic), without giving any real evidence to make that argument.

In a particularly sad injustice for the families of the dead White victims, the film ends with a quick screen message that the murders of their loved-ones are now officially called "unsolved."

NEGATIVE stars would be be more appropriate for this film, except for what it tells you about the filmmakers.