I finally saw this after seeing Bride and Prejudice a few weeks ago.  I can see what all the fuss was about, especially since this was a "small movie" when released in the US that did well mostly on word of mouth.  Truly I wish I had seen it in the theater.

Parminder Nagra was wonderful as Jess, the Indian girl who plays great football (soccer), but all her family cares about is marrying off her sister and getting Jess ready for the same route by teaching her to cook an Indian meal and wear more makeup.  Jess is torn between loyalty to her family, who do genuinely love her and mean well, and her desire to see how far her football talent can take her.

Keira Knightly has one of her first ever roles (maybe her first ever role) as the girl who befriends Jess and encourages her to join a women's team.  She shows Jess that their dream of playing women's soccer professionally could come true.

While the main storyline is compelling, by itself it would be teh stuff of a Disney or ABC Family network movie.  What really makes the movie wonderful is the time and attention given to so many of the supporting characters--Jess' family aren't simple old-fashioned obstacles to her dream, they have real reasons for wanting to protect her from herself to keep her from getting hurt as they have been in the past.  The actors who play her father and mother are especially good.

Another supporting standout is Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, who plays the coach Joe.  Every time Jess' playing seems to have hit an immovable obstacle, Joe takes a step that keeps it going.  It's not easy, as Jess points out to him at one point, but her family would never have come around at all without Joe's polite but insistent nudges.

Of course there are feel-good football playing sequences, and of course the sister's wedding is a blur of ceremony, dancing and even a pointless fight in a hallway (The director's commentary says she insisted on leaving the scene in because a fight always seems to break out at an Indian wedding and no one is ever sure what it's about).

Gurinder Chadha wrote and directed the movie and it's obviously a labor of great love.  She does a wonderful job of capturing the tension of the generation of Asians who have grown up in England with English customs, but still pulled toward the customs of their oftentimes unseen homeland.  I loved the little scenes that showed Jess and her peers navigating between the two worlds, like when she and her sister smoothly shift from talking about boys to giving a traditional greeting to the mother of a friend.

And like Bride and Prejudice, this movie has a fabulous soundtrack and is going on my list of CDs I want to get one of these days!

Also, on the DVD, don't miss the director's commentary because it adds a lot to many of the little touches in the movie--you'll be able to spot her relatives playing relatives in the wedding scenes, and the many tributes to her deceased father that appear in the movie.

Worth watching, and for me, probably worth watching again!