You might be under the impression, since this is part of the Criterion Collection and our kind benevolent review posters, Amazon.com, have posted a breathless "Amazon.com" review, that this movie is somehow artistic.  Well, it isn't.  Keep in mind that along with "The Seventh Seal" and "The Passion of Joan of Arc", the Criterion Collection has seen fit to lavish attention on "The Rock", "Armageddon" (both double disc sets, natch), and "Fiend Without a Face."  This and "Blood for Dracula" can be safely filed among those head-scratchers of selections.
The artistic rep comes from the fact that Andy Warhol put up the cash to make these movies.  Do not be fooled, he was not involved in them in any other way.  The director, Paul Moressey, did, indeed, know how to frame a shot (which, as near as I can figure out, is the reason so many people drool over this movie.  They must go nuts when they see their first James Whale flick.)  That is all he knew how to do.  He didn't know how to direct actors, he didn't know how to get the accents consistent (one peasant seems to be from Transylvania via the Bronx), and he certainly didn't know how to spare poor Udo Kier, the one professional in the bunch (and who really does deserve better), the torture of such an amateurish production.
The Criterion ad copy reads (taken shamelessly out of context) "...a relevation to horror fans."  Well, it's not.  It's not even a horror movie; it's a slasher movie and should be referred to as such.  This is not "Nosferatu", or "Bride of Frankenstein."  It is not "Night of the Living Dead" (and where's the Criterion release of NOTLD, I'd like to know?) or "The Haunting" (the original, NOT the Liam Neeson version, and another Criterion candidate.)  No, this would fit right in along with, oh, "The Ghastly Ones" or maybe "The Bloody Mutilators."  It's not even camp; it's stupid and badly-made slop, worthy of Andy Milligan, and to call this an artistic horror movie is to disgrace everything actual artists from James Whale to David Cronenberg have worked on to develop the genre.  
Since nobody's bothered to do so, let me fill you in as to the actual PLOT of this flick: Baron Von Munchausen, er, Frankenstein is trying to make a perfect man to breed with the perfect woman he made, in between the bouts of incest, necrophilia, etc (among other treats, we discover Frank's really happy to meet a gallbladder.  Yes, that means what you think it means.)  Unfortunately, since Peter Boyle and Marty Feldman had some dignity, two clowns from Warhol's Factory arrive to serve as the heroes.
It would help if anyone other than Kier could act.  Unfortunately, they can't.  Frankenstein needs a head for his love machine of a creature, so he spies on brothels looking for really (...) guys (apparently, he didn't think to just look for your average male teenager, but then, who said people in slasher movies were smart?) 
This has buckets of gore, mostly because they could afford buckets of gore, and if you're looking for a movie in the vein of such amateur nights behind the camera as "Slave of the Cannibal God", or "Pieces", or any of a slew of the bloody (and bloody stupid) slasher flicks that tried to exploit the market, this is definitely a good stop, although I wouldn't pay what Criterion's asking.  Certainly the scene at the end where poor Udo has to cauterwaul for five minutes with a spear through him (on the end of which is a "vital organ" that looks suspiciously like a piece of beef) is a laugh riot and worth paying the ten bucks this movie would be available for if it hadn't sponged up some art credibility from Warhol.
If you are looking for actual art in the horror film, you don't even have to leave the Criterion Collection.  "M", "Haxan", "Sisters", "The Vanishing", "Kwidan", "Peeping Tom" and "Shock Corridor" are all fine creepy movies and currently in print.  Out of print, but still possible to find, are "Dead Ringers" and "Silence of the Lambs" (more of a thriller, but what the heck, it's certainly a country mile better than THIS turkey.)  Other, non-Criterion, releases worth checking out are pretty much anything by David Cronenberg, Romero's "Dead" trilogy, the two "Tetsuo" films by Tsukamoto (although those can't be recommended to the squeamish) and, of course, the German expressionist films of the 20s ("Nosferatu", "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari", "The Golem"), which are currently getting beautiful rereleases.  If you're looking for blood and carnage, you could pay good money for the brilliant "Dead Alive" (get the unrated version), or simply check out the $5 and up DVD bin at your local chain record store.  
This, however, and "Blood For Dracula", which is more of the same, are nothing more than garbage, slasher flicks for people who don't want to admit they like slasher flicks.  Call it trash, call it amusing, just do us all a favor, folks, and don't call it art.