Reading the comments here, after seeing the movie, one would need to consider the types of people who viewed this movie. I bet most have never even seen what the Circuit is, and can be.
I am a gay man, living in this `stereo-typical' gay world. I have seen the movie, and I can totally relate. I know people like Hector, the one who `doesn't like women, or ugly men.' They exist. I see them almost daily. I feel very sorry for them. At the same time, I feel sorry for me, that I cannot be one of their friends. To them, I am ugly. These types of people exist. I hate them. Moreover, love them at the same time. This is the essence of this movie Circuit.
Yes, the acting pretty much [is bad]. LOL. Nevertheless, think deeper. Do not be so superficial. (As the characters...) The message is there in your face.... I guess, as a movie, it could have been better with budget, and actors. Like one person said, a script doctor. I did like the movie, and I thought it hit the energy and confusion of a gay man's life, seduced into that world, on the nose. I have been there. Thank God, I knew enough to get out. Beautiful, seducing, and dangerous. All of these things make up this movie, and the Circuit. The people caught in this `scene' are just that... caught up in it. In its beauty, and in its addictions. Moreover, they are so duped, (or doped, pick your wording), they cannot see what's so wrong with it. I love thought provoking movies. This one made me think. I wish some of my acquaintances, and one particular person I love dearly, would see this movie, and snap out of the dream world they live in, where all there is is sex, drugs, the gym, and the party. `How beautiful am I', `I'm too skinny', `I'm too fat'...etc etc... Unfortunately, these people exist. 
And Dirk Shafer captured the mystique, and seduction of the Circuit almost perfectly. While still giving us the message of how dangerous it is. Yes, the acting was not the best. Yes, the budget was low. With what he had to work with, I believe this movie was as good as it could get. I am going to buy the Directors Cut DVD, and give it to someone as a present. Hopefully, he gets the message.