Alice in Wonderland takes us on a star studded trip down the rabbit hole for another classic interpritation of the land with zany locations and completly zany inhabitants.
  Alice (Tina Majorino) is dreading her part in her parents tea party. She has to sing in front of everybody! "How do they expect me to sing in front of all these strangers?". Alice decides to hide in the back garden until the party ends. Just then, as an apple slowly falls from a nearby tree, Alice's spots a white rabbit running along yelling "Oh I'm so very LATE!". She pursues him all the way down his rabbit hole full of strange objects defying gravity, until she lands in an underground world known as Wonderland. She sets out to find a beautiful garden (She couldn't get to it because she was to big to fit through the door leading to it). She keeps changing sizes going up to 10 feet high then down to ten inches high. As she wonders through the land she meets the strangest people including: Major Catapillar (Ben Kingsley) who tends to smoke his hooka, and, to Alice's annoyance, talks in very short sentences; the Duchess (Elizebeth Spriggs) who manages to ignore the air in her house filled thick with pepper; the Chesire Cat (Whoopi Goldberg) who seems to be the sainest creature around; the Mad Hatter (Martain Short) who has a tendency to break into song when unexpected; the Queen of Hearts (Miranda Richardson) who owns the garden and has hobbys of playing Crouquet and screeching "Off with her head!"; the Mock Turtle (Gene Wilder) who sings, tells storys, and burst into tears regularly; the White Knight (Christopher Lloyd) who loves riding his horse even if he can't stay on it for long; and Tweedle Dee (George Wendt) and his brother Tweedle Dum (Robbie Coltrane) who love reciting poetry. All these characters and more help Alice to ultimatley gain confidence to sing her song, but now the question is, how will she escape this upsidown world?
  This version of Alice is a magnificent feast for the eyes and ears. Originaly made as a three hour special for NBC in 1999, the transfer to DVD is magnificent, even if much can't be said for the special features. There are a few behind the scenes things to read over, cast bios, original drawings from the Lewis Carrol book, and a trailer for the video. That's really it though.
  The effects in the movie, are however, amazing. Many of the odd creatures were created by the Jim Henson Creature Shop and they have used their talent to do an amazing job. Dyson Lovell, Robert Halmi, Sr., and Rober Halmi Jr. have done a wonderful job bringing the story to life with its chaotic yet storybook like settings and zany character looks.
  Even though this version combines elements from both of Carrol's books (Alice in Wonderland, and Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There), and even though it strays a little from the original plot (Well, doesn't every version?) it is still a wonderful work of imagination and wonder and I would put it up there along with the Disney version.
  So get you copy of Alice in Wonderland and enjoy your trip down the rabbit hole and through the looking-glass!