I first saw this film in the theater, on it's premiere.  If I'm not mistaken, it was a very early multiplex in Los Angeles.  Of course I was captivated.  I saw it again, over the years, on T.V., "Wizard Of Oz" style, with commercials, although the ads never seemed to attach themselves to film the way they did with the "Wizard", where I can still identify the scenes where the commercials are due.

Then, as I grew up, and older, I aquired a more jaded view of "Mary Poppins", and ignored it for more than a decade.  And, fairly recently, I happened upon "Mary Poppins" on T.V., and realized that my memories were not accurate.

It was not the repulsive '60s musical, ala "Sound Of Music", with the obnoxiously blonde, dreadfully perfect, aryan, children; but a wonderfully escapist piece, with bytes of subversiveness, referring to suffragettes, and a woman's place in Edwardian society, and what they were doing about it;  a subversiveness that "SOM" completely lacked, even with it's much darker Nazi overtones.  Can I strangle those brats with the drapes, now?

But lately, in watching the film, I notice that Cherry Tree Lane was all too awfully, a harbinger of the banal suburban housing tracts that dominate our lost farmlands and suburban sprawl, today.  One can see the imprimatur of Disneyland, and Disneyland Culture, all over this film, except that, when it debuted, this clarion call was not a part of the film that any, but the most clear headed, and most strident activists would have picked up.

Oh my.

But don't let that deter you, this is a wonderful film.  This is a product from an era when Disney was a film maker, and not the metaphor of all that went wrong with American society.  It was, after all,  our fellow Americans that took the message to heart, and made a mess out of it.  Don't let them screw it up for you.

I highly recommend this film for escapist entertainment, and I won't even feed a pidgeon, even in the company of children! (They're wild animals, like the Parrots of Telegraph Hill, and Chicago...)

This is a fine film.  Watch it.