Regulating human behavior through law has always led to tension between governing bodies and the general public.  Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic" explores this truism by chronicling the trafficking and sale of illegal drugs.  At the heart of this conflict is the struggle between a society that wants to stamp out this destructive scourge and the segment of the population unwilling to comply with the law because they are profiting from drug sales or consider drug use a recreational act too enjoyable to give up.

Soderbergh's film is composed of three distinct but intertwined tales.  One tale involves a judge named Robert Wakefield (Michael Douglas) who is appointed the nation's new drug czar.  He experiences the destructive nature of drugs first-hand when his daughter, Caroline (Erika Christensen) becomes addicted to crack cocaine.  Another tale features a police officer in Mexico named Javier Rodriguez (Benicio Del Toro).  Rodriguez wants to disrupt the flow of drugs from its source but finds that the authorities in charge of combating drug trafficking may be part of the problem.  The third tale revolves around a successful businessman named Carlos Ayala (Steven Bauer) and his wife Helena (Catherine Zeta-Jones).  Their lives are shattered when Carlos is arrested for his involvement in the drug trade.

Taken as a whole, "Traffic" has an epic feel about it because there is so much going on and so many characters that figure into the events of the three separate stories.  With so many component parts to the film, it could have easily become a jumbled mess.  Yet, Soderbergh smoothly transitions from story to story and ably weaves his three tales into an impressive tapestry.  The acting shines from everyone involved:  Douglas, Del Toro, Zeta-Jones, and Don Cheadle turn in exemplary performances while Dennis Quaid, Miguel Ferrer, Luis Guzman compliment them with strong supporting turns.  "Traffic" is an ambitious piece of filmmaking that will entertain and disturb at the same time.