I'm one of those rare dinosaurs that saw kiss in small clubs like Joint In The Woods in 73, was an instant fan, ran the first KISS fanzine "Kisser" with a friend (Hi Randy), maintained a COMPLETE collection, met the band, and followed them fervently till 1980, when the merchandising simply burned me out. My point being, I have credentials.

The history on much of this DVD material is as follows. Kiss ex-manager Bill Aucoin had all the Kiss stuff in a big warehouse. Circa 1987, for reasons personal, he needed money, and speaking with Ace, offered it all for $100,000. Ace didn't want it, and since he was not particularly fond of Gene and Paul, he didn't mention it to them. Enter two fans that met Ace, Al and Gary. They mortgaged a house, paid Aucoin, rented two tractor trailers, and picked up all the stuff. They then hosted numerous killer Kiss conventions. THAT's the source of all the copies of the material on this DVD, which was eventually copied ad nauseum. Well, Gene & Paul eventually found out, had the cops raid an Al/Gary convention, and confiscated everything as "stolen merchandise". Kiss then sponsored it's own conventions, ultimately auctioned all the costumes, and have now funneled the video stuff to be included in Kissology DVD's. THAT's why this material is not new to real fans.

So, anyway, the actual material. The upside is, you get a first generation, clean copy, of some really great Kiss video. The downside,
there are some NASTY cuts. Land Of Hype And Glory is only an excerpt. Too bad cause it was a great show. But the biggest SIN, is that the Tom Snyder show appearance is CUT IN HALF. Any fan will tell you that the single most entertaining piece of Kiss video is the Tom Syder show. This is the one video that even non-Kiss fans appreciate. Ace is a riot! He was drunk and tripping, laughing hysterically, abducted Tom's mascot teddy bear, and put his costume pieces on the bear. Hilarious, but you won't see it, cause it's in the half they cut. It's confounding. So, if you're a big fan, yes this is a great DVD, but don't think you can toss your old VHS bootlegs. Sadly, not yet.

Visually, Kiss can't be topped. Historically, they saw Alice Cooper in 72 and said "If one guy in makeup is this big, what if all four of us wore makeup". Kiss pioneered flames, explosions, and moving stage pieces. Today, these things are staples with metal bands and the like, but Kiss literally started it. In the early days, Kiss were quite the underground cult band. Greasepaint, leather, and flames, wrapped in mystery. Nobody knew their true identity for several years. The teenybopper stuff only started with the Destroyer tour in 76.

Musically, nobody does straight ahead hard rock better than Kiss. I'm not talking metal, or thrash, but plain old crunchy driving hard rock.

And another thing, attitudinally, Gene and Paul were always in one camp, and Ace & Peter in another. Historically, the two camps always fought, and both sides had valid points. Originally each band member contractually "owned a letter" in KISS. Eventually, Ace & Peter sold their letters to Gene and Paul. First Peter, which left Ace to be out-voted on band conflicts, eventually causing Ace to quit as well. Since then, Gene & Paul have been petty about making sure they get majority coverage, and looking best, in everything Kiss, marginalizing Ace & Peter, and sometimes showing them in unfavorable light. I love KISS, all of the original four (and Eric, he's earned it), but I sure wish Gene & Paul could check their ego some, and represent the whole band equally, for the sake of the fans. Gene! Paul! The real fans know the score. And we talk about it. There's a consensus. We want you guys to all play nice, get along, and share the spotlight equally. Ya, Ace & Peter have issues, but so do you. Kiss is too good to be sullied by petty infighting, egos, money, and other BS.
KISS ROCKS !