As he continues to age Jackie Chan has made a solid career choice by moving into films that don't require the type of stunts used in say, Police Story.  Teeming up with a charismatic co-star like Chris Tucker (Rush Hour) or Owen Wilson (Shanghai Noon) has proven that he can be a box office draw in the US.  While still keeping the stunts fresh, having a solid co-star helped relieve some of the burden.  So who thought of Jennifer Love-Hewitt?  Chan and Love-Hewitt have little of the chemistry that the other two pairings had.  They contrast more often than they compliment but the pairings in this film work in another fashion.  There is a scene in the film where the two agents simultaneously try to seduce bottled water tycoon Diedrich Banning (Richie Coster) and his fianc&eacute;.  They don't jibe well with each other but the chemistry is always between Chan or Love-Hewitt and whoever else is on the screen.  That's why the film works.

The story starts with Jackie Chan as taxi driver Jimmy Tong.  After proving his worth as a chauffeur by driving with reckless disregard for life through Manhattan, CSA agent Debi Mazar hires him to drive around James Bond-type fellow Clark Devlin (Jason Isaacs).  They bond and Devlin assures Chan that he can be as smooth as Devlin.  Chan, being the every-man that he is in essentially all his films, plays down the compliments.  An improbable attack on the two leaves Chan with directions from Devlin to wear his super-power-giving tuxedo.  Chan then is paired with Jennifer Love-Hewitt to avert a diabolical scheme by Banning.  Hijinks ensue.
Chan's character is a fish-out-of-water as usual and as can be expected, his face is very emotive.  Love-Hewitt is a cynical scientist always in the middle of a breast joke.  Both of them either don't get that they're making fun of spy films or get it completely.  The film parodies the spy genre by having an American super-agent with a British accent.  It parodies it's own script ('That passes for humor around here.").  The sophisticated villain is not beholden to aesthetic beauty, art or humor, but bring up bottled water and he is riveted.  It's a film that doesn't take itself seriously and shouldn't.  Whether intentional or not, this film follows the path of Last Action Hero and Scream and provides the most entertaining example of a genre film by parodying it.