Okay, I was hung-ho to purchase the CD version until I read the amazon review about the difference between the CD and the original VHS tape - they had cut out Buck Dich from the CD version because of an alleged SM Homosexual Rape scene that did not please our 'higher society' Decency Patrol who determines what we sheepish tax-paying citizens should view and not view, the puritanical and un-adulterated delicate flower pedals that we are. As a Rammstein fan, and an educated adult not stranded in church, naturally curiosity got the better of me and I had to buy the VHS tape instead and witness the aweful rudeness for myself. I don't like being jipped of my hard-earned money either, so the tape was the accurate option for me anyway. Well... I'll be damned! Cursed be oh gaga thee, what moron deemed that particular spectacle a horrid rape scene to be banished from society is truly an idiot and should cancel their HBO subscription, head for the hills right away and hang his/herself from the tallest tree. Because if that scene made 'em reach for their good book, wait til they see what's on ordinary TV next season. Get a grip people. It is a spectacle alright, and I laughed myself silly when the scene came up, but it's nothing of the sort of a "rape" scene (I'll even admit I was a tad wee dissappointed there wasn't more to it from all the hipe than the 30 some seconds of mere sexual 'gesture'). I knew there wouldn't be anything harsh to it already, even German audiences (who are apparently ions more open-minded than our government gives us credit for) have their limits and Rammstein is no fools, they're not going to alienate their diverse audience with truly crude stuff. This ain't porn after all. Rammstein is known for their spectacular shows, and unlike most bands they're not afraid to venture beyond mere love and loss themes in their songs, duh. But that's the beauty of Rammstein, and it's not like they gear their shows, or their music for that matter, for the lite-hearted. They're geared for us, the rest of the vast population of adults who have been around the block, and those who haven't yet but are clearly geared to no matter what anybody says. If you intend to pamper us in 'decency', then stop showing Sadam in his underwear already and put Jerry F back on prime time to show us the righteous way to salvation!!! In my opinion, their playful and non-threatening momentary stage venture into the world of Gay SM sex (which is no more depraved than anything heteros reckon doing on HBO on a nightly basis), and no penetration involved blessed be between the lead with a plastic dildo spewing vast amounts of white liquid throughout the audience as well and the keyboardist on a leash and his pretty little glutus maximus exposed briefly (hey, the audience cheered on, they were not offended), is a play in comedy and hardly a reason to omit Buck Dich, which they executed as beautifully musically as the rest of their performance here and to omit it takes away from the entire performance. Shame on the decency patrol who denied this segment from the CD version, and to save whom from stumbling down the path of sadomasochistic depravity and shooting up a McDonalds? I mean, really folks. What a joke. Even if you're offended by minutely sexual displays, and if you are do cancel your Showtime subscription as well, forget buying the CD version - act on your freedom (and morbid curiosity) to choose what you do and watch and go for the VHS full version, you won't be sorry. Even if you don't like this particular display of comedy, the tape is already a collector's item and will one day be entirely unavailable but to those who can afford paying a hefty price.