It's a strange feeling walking out of the theater after watching the movie.. it's almost like don't know what to say. Witnessing the breakdown of a family's dynamic and how people deal with situations that could change their lives is somewhat familiar but at the same time touched.

"A separation" is an Iranian film depicting the divorce of two individuals who were married for over 10 years and had one daughter together. The film was tactfully presenting each individual's situation but not a solution. You kept on watching to see what really happened and tried to understand why they did. You started thinking about yourself and the situation that you have gone through and the decision that you have made.

Simin and her husband were fighting with each other because she wanted to leave for a foreign country in order to give their daughter a better future while Nadir did not share the same thought. He had a father who had Alzheimer and there was no one taking care of him in Iran. They could not live together. He told her to go if she wanted to but she could not take their daughter with her. It was the beginning of all the things that happened. Never once did he ask her to stay.

Nader hired a maid to take of his father now that Simin had left for her parents home. Razieh was a very religious woman and had found it difficult taking care of Simin's dad. She however had a husband who happened to owe others lots of money making it impossible for her not to work to take care of things. Despite the difficult work, she stuck through until one day, Nader went home and found his Dad tied to the bed and fell down to the floor.

From here..the wheel of consequences started to turn... from one misunderstanding leading to another misunderstanding... from one lie leading to another lie...and it spread like fire, from one person to another person. An innocent girl was put to lie against her will to protect something precious to her. An innocent girl was asked to witness the breakdown of her family and couldn't do anything to protect it. An innocent girl looked up only to see that hope was no where to be seen. The final stare at the adults in the big room was powerful and almost scary.

Some said the movie was about class separation and how they conducted their life. Some said the movie was about the morale of people living in the situation that they were in. It's obvious that the movie embedded with meanings that each individual finds and figures out. As to what is the most important, it's up to the viewer because each of us values different things and for us, those are more important than others.

Despite setting in Iran, I can find myself sitting in and witnessing similar situations. Despite our different decision, it's hard to judge why he/she did what he/she did. The flaw of human nature is that we know our flaw but sometimes we couldn't do anything about. We do certain things for certain reasons and to us those reasons are dear and more important than others. One can't compare whose children are more important. One can't compare whose life is more important. In the end, we often decide what's best for us whether one has to lie to get what one wants. It is after all human nature.

"A separation" is a wonderful movie but it is not without flaw. I would suggest you forgive the flaw while watching it. Then you would be able to enjoy it a lot more.

In the end, you might have to make some decision ;-)