Perhaps Disney has finally BEGUN to drag itself out of the dark ages of portraying their female film characters as weak, flawlessly beautiful young "princesses" who swoon and wait for Prince Charming to come save  the day.
I am sick of having the old "females are weak and only good  for one thing" stereotype crammed down my throat by the film industry.  Especially the children's film industry. 
This is the story of a young  woman who unintentionally but through necessity faces prejudice and danger  head on, and wins.
Like many of us young women, Mulan feels false and out  of place when trying to be graceful, beautiful, and obedient in order to  attract a husband, and her high-strung spirit obviously makes her  ill-suited for the traditional domestic role that society demands her to  fill. 
She is a gentle and sensitive person who respects her parent's  wishes, but, though she tries hard, is unable to properly fulfill her duty  to bring "honor" to her family by attracting a prosperous  husband. She becomes depressed and feels "useless".  
When War  suddenly breaks out, each family is  called upon to send a male family  member to join the army and help protect the Emperor and China from the  attacking Huns.  The only available male member of Mulan's family is her  father, a former military man, but due to an old injury he walks with a  cane and obviously won't stand a chance in battle.  
Mulan cannot accept  the possible loss of her beloved father, so secretly steals his orders,  cuts her hair, dons his old armor, and rides away in the night to take his  place in the Chinese army, disguised as a boy. 
Beautiful landscapes and  detail of traditional Chinese armor and clothing, several humorous  situations [though Disney really should decide whether they are making a  family movie or an adult one. None of the comments were really damaging,  but many of the innuendos and jokes were really unsuitable for young  children! What's the matter Disney, trying to creep in on South Park's  market? What's the matter with you?!!!!]. 
Though the "Asian"  art style is different than Disney's norm, the realisticly flowing movement  that is Disney's signature is still there.  The scene where the TIDALWAVE  of mounted Huns pours down the entire hillside toward the  "camera" in one battle is AWESOME and rivals similar battle  scenes in BRAVEHEART and HEAVEN AND EARTH [Japanese]. Many other Mulan  scenes are equally exciting, but this is the one that most comes to my  mind.  
Wonderful "cinematography", and great use of scenary  colors to convey different moods. Not TOO much singing, but enough to make  it "Disney".
Though the story slows down a little in the  middle, it's an exciting adventure, with a wide range of  "colorful" supporting characters [including the strong and  extremely handsome young man who ends up falling in love with her, for  those "hopeless romantics" out there], and a real mean [but not  TOO mean] bad guy.
My husband and I really enjoyed it and are purchasing  the DVD for our "future" children.
All in all, MY favorite  Disney movie.