I was in college when this show debuted in 1975. We would sit around and get high while the show was on. The comedy wasn't funny then, and it certainly isn't now. I'm sorry, but none of these people are the geniuses they were touted to be then, and ever since. They were lucky we were all stoned, just like them. They beat bad skits, inept performances and horrible writing into the ground. Most people were so stoned it didn't matter. I was high too, but I didn't find it particularly funny, even then. My friends and I would talk amongst ourselves during the awful redundant skits and wait for the musical guests to appear.

I believe the show is still on the air in large part due to the fact that pot is still a popular drug. Too bad we didn't take care of the marijuana when we decided smoking cigarettes was so bad. Ain't it weird! Now you can go to a concert and no one will say anything to you if you smoke a bowl or doobie. But try lighting a cigarette and they'll chase you outside - even if you're already outside.

The SNL mentality is responsible for this insane messed up world we live in. The show is put together by shiftless potheads for an audience of their ilk. Guys that thought Abby Hoffman, Richard Pryor, Jerry Rubin, George Carlin and their type were real American heroes (typical dope smoker community values at play). But those with the power of the pen will tell you how GROUNDBREAKING they were. Groundbreaking for what? Bad writing, poor work at their craft and drug-addled performances? Sorry, but these A-Holes have gotten way too much credit in the past and now. Which proves we have cretins in the critical community. No doubt, shameless potheads who haven't laid off the stuff for the past 30 years. To call the humor on the show, both then and now, sophomoric would be giving it way more credit than it deserves. Face it, Chevy Chase was never funny plus he's one of the biggest jerks in showbiz! Belushi, Aykroyd, Radner, Newman and Morris were not so hot. I never understood all the hub-ub about their merits.

Unfortunately, the show became a launch pad for countless other inept comedy actors and an unending series of awful movies made by it's alumni. I guess if the critics keep insisting the stuff these guys do is funny then the sheep will keep buying the tickets. But, really, how many great movies have resulted from any SNL alumni starring in them? The ratio of good to bad films is probably 1:100. Another tribute to Hollywood's total lack of imagination. How come nobody ever got the memo that if these guys can't even pull off a five minute skit, that they won't be able to do 90 minutes in a film. The amount of garbage generated from SNL alumni is astounding and we should burn this DVD just for it's prevalent negative affect on the culture. I mean, this is some awful SH*T!

The SNL's of the future kept up the same strategy. BEAT BAD SKITS INTO THE GROUND. Everybody's stoned anyway, they'll never notice it's the same un-funny crap we did a week or two ago. And while we're at it, make sure that the audience knows that you ain't cool unless you adopt a left wing point of view and smoke and snort drugs.

Best thing about the show was the music. That's the reason my friends and I watched. The comedy sucked then and it sucks now. Time has not been kind to much humor, especially topical stuff. Like I said, this wasn't that great in 1975 and 1976 and it doesn't hold up any better now.

I would pay for a compilation of the musical guests and find that entertaining.