The tone for Sexy Beast is set the moments the credit begin to roll. The Strangler's 'Peaches'- a song that is nothing short of gleeful lechery personified- slinks and oozes over the opening shots like the sweat on Ray Winstone's aging body. This movie is all about lust: Teddy's for making the ultimate robbery, Don's for Gal's return to corruption and for onetime lover Jackie, and Gal's to lead a relatively stress-free life with his wife and son in sunlight-saturated Spain.
What keeps the plot from getting stale in this heist movie is that the heist itself is made secondary to the lead characters. More time and footage is spent examining Gal's 'new' and idyllic lifestyle and Don's fantatical need to have him come back to London for one last job while the robbery itself is condensed into a matter of  suspenseless minutes. That is not to say this movie isn't a nailbiter, there were several instances where I found myself recoiling in shock and clutching my face in surprise. Cutting down on the artificial elements involved in most British gang movies actually serves to create more real, and ultimately more horrifying moments by lulling you into a false sense of security.
Ben Kingsley is a quivering bowstring of energy but often takes things close to, and sometimes completely, over the top and around the bend. Ray Winstone is phenomenal as Gal; you will have no doubt that this pudgily imperfect man was once a hardened criminal. Ian McShane manages to banish all comparisons to his Lovejoy character with his weathered skin, deadened eyes and 'involvement' (to put it politely) with a bisexual bank manager at an orgy. The accents are thick, but if you've picked this up chances are you've already tried one or both of Guy Ritchie's films (I refuse to recognize a certain remake starring a certain talentless pop star as his work) and your ears should be used to it.
What keeps this just short of the five-star mark are some cheesy effects (including Kingsley's unabashed mugging) that pull you out of the movie's gritty reality. The rabbit is slightly forgiveable because of the payoff we're treated to at the end but the boulder is a laughably obvious hunk of styrofoam.