Art demands the dangerous: every viewer, every reader, every listener finds his person individual....and then, mostly for worse, We Sing The Body Electric upon our discovery, impiously disfiguring the drawing, the poem, the song in silent reconstruction. But for Some, a soiled naughty halo appears in place of the coda. You hoist your ego overboard in older age, now a conduit, finally invulnerable from the winsome upside down faces of your changing theater. If you can touch one life.........
Some movies entertain; some frighten, some make us weep, some make us reflect, all take us away for few blessed moments from our reality.  This is not a simple love story, although it can be defined on an elementary level.  There's so many things going on here.  I got them.  That's news to me; sometimes, maybe too many times, I don't.  This movie touched one life...me.
  Arturo Bandini, not a name of Grande Poets, but of a fertilizer company, a writer, an observer who finally figured out, during on the job training, that you just need to write what you ....observe.... and that which interests you in honest acceptance. He writes his publisher back East that he doesn't have anything to write about, not realising that he already is!! The rest begins to follow, like his "Legions of Ghosts crawling in from the seas through the fog at night"
  Arturo Bandani, afraid of women almost as much as he's afraid of himself and his writer'sblock that consumes his self-confidence.  Then Camilla is there in front of him, an obstruction that halts, then jumpstarts his life.  Wasn't easy, but after a slow start things happen.
I've seen a thousand foggy Southern California ocean nights. I wasn't ready for that line; I was ready for Camilla and the skin on surf scene EVERYONE knew was coming!!! Steinbeck can wait...
Camilla, as a defrocked nun, banished from finery, reduced to peasant shoes, who serves five cent coffee as communion wine, treating it as a fine rustic protected vintage hijacked from next Sunday's Bishop's Altar Mass, secretly hoping, sharing, pushing it's redemption, not in a church, but in a coffee shop.
  Camilla: with deadly eyes that flash at you to pull over, like police warning lights in the dead of night, waiting for you to plead your innocence. You know that one look into those eyes and you will drink the night's rum. You stagger, insanely innocent, indefensibly guilty.
  Camilla: Once her humble servant, once her defeatism, once her dangerous insolence, once her challenging, once her unwavering eyes and daring sarcastic smile with folded arms, once her insecurity, once her 1930's female vulnerability, impossibly unhidden even by her latitude complexion.
  East Coast boyish cold Winter's adolescence meets the anxious heat of a  Southern California precocious Summer's sexuality.
  East Coast snobbism meets West Coast racism.
  He rows, fearing sharks. She swims, defying them.
  It's all a learning experience for both, stalled by ethnic pride, a terrible shared rebuking, accelerated by an obvious finite. Camilla is a tragic figure, bruised outside, an injured fabric outline for her inner organic consumption only Arturo Bandini, in all his kinetic writings seemed unaware of. Maybe his canvas was so full. There were only so many colours on his board. Maybe his mix was off. The Moment, impossibly lingered, was missed.
Arturo, who notices those new breezy California palm trees outside his window more than Camilla's absence of underwear one uninvited evening. A Beautiful Woman's rejected seducing is perhaps the greatest Tragedy poetic.
  Get out of the way, Arturo, you're too slow and hesitant. Camilla:
Your smile, your open hand saved us both from The sulking Serpent who stared at the dropped fruit, unbitten.
How We Both gained God's Favor, blessing us with the Santa Anas!
  I never liked coffee. I ordered it only because of you.
  I never liked the Flatlands. I came there only because of you.
  I never liked the heat. But that sudden hot wind carried your smell so into my realm.
  I never shared my Kingdom.
  For you, I renamed it.