In the era of teenyboper movie stars who probably can't drive cars or order alcohol yet, it is nice to see a movie driven by the performances of two increadible actors.  Both Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden have taken the time to perfect their artform and are far from the smiling faces visibly reading notecards off camera that we have all become so used to seeing.  In fact, watching this film is a visual feast because it suggests (even if it doesn't always hit the mark itself) what a movie is capable of becoming if competent actors are employed.
The story of Jackson Pollock is not a particularly satisfying one.  With most artists, there is a violent debate over which handful out of the masses of talented people are going to be recognized as the ones who really shaped the creative directions of their time.  This debate is especially interesting when it comes to Jackson Pollock, whose drip style of painting has many people convinced he was a no-talent ... who simply coasted by on what amounted to a "The emperor has no clothes" type of trick.  For whatever reason, I personally have always enjoyed Pollock's paintings, so this side of Pollock's story is not particularly compelling for me.  However, it does represent a direction the movie could have taken but chose not to.  It is clear that Harris chose not to construct a metaphorical representation of the man that tried to articulate and explain his importance as an artist, but instead elected to present Pollock as he actually was.  That is, in an unflattering light.  In a sense, this choice is a testament not only to Pollock's reputation as an artist, but the strength of his personality, for at the end of the movie it is clear that the filmakers believe we will see him as a brilliant man despite the fact that they bombarded us with two hours of almost exclusively the lowest moments of his life.
In a way, the brutally honest handling of Pollock does allow the audience to get deep inside his head.  The chaos of his personal life is sort of reflected in his bizarre and abstract works, though this is not a connection the movie strains to make.  In fact, the movie never strains at all, which is what is so appealing about it, it is almost entirely non-manipulative.  Or if it does manipulate, it does so in the direction opposite from that which would most benifit the picture.  The decision was to present Pollock the man not Pollock the artist, and the motivation seems to be that you get one with the other.  
Not enough can be said about Harris' performance.  He is so totally immersed in the role that even his energetic painting scenes seem totally authentic.  Imagine an actor pretending to be Jimi Hendrix playing the guitar and you'll recognize the difficulty.  There are some icons that are so indellibly planted in our consciousness that any falseness in their representation is immediately apparent.  The real revelation is Marcia Gay Harden, both for her performance and the complexity of the character she plays.  Again, there is a strong authenticity to her role as the woman who basicly took care of everything in Pollock's life so that he could concentrate, some might say selfishly, entirely on his work.  One might ask if freeing up the man so that he can be in such frequent undistracted contact with his inner demons was actually benifical to him, or humanity in general.
All in all, there are some times when this film is rather slow and begins to lose the attention of its viewers.  Anybody who has any background in art should not miss it however as it does provide a wonderful opportunity to familiarize the events of Pollock's life and make your own decision about their worthiness.