I've got to say, it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.  Now, my surprise could stem from the fact that I completely expected the worst adaptation ever.  Are you asking yourself why I still saw the movie despite my complete belief of it suckage-ness?  Well, I tend to follow actors and actresses I like, and use them as a starting point when venturing into unknown movie territory.  And it's because of the lead actress in this movie that I had a glimmer of hope....

Back  to "Blood". For those unfamiliar with with this film, it was originally a 45 min. OAV (Original Animation Video) released about 10 years ago and was a big hit, spawning a manga and animated television series.  It's about a girl hired by the government to extinguish a race of bat-like creatures that feast on human blood.  They exist among us in human form and can only be killed with a blow so damaging, it bleeds to death before it can heal.  If there were any questions about the gore factor, yes it is present.  This girl (named Saya) is the only being strong enough to perform the task of killing the creatures.  Why?  Har har har... Guess.  Or watch the movie : P

In the live-action release of Blood, Saya is played by Jeon Ji Hyun. Korean entertainment fans will already know Jeon, (or Gianna here in the States) for her work in movies like My Sassy Girl, Windstruck, Il Mare (which is what The Lake House is a re-make of) or Daisy. I loved My Sassy Girl as well as Jeon's commitment to her role in Windstruck, which made a complete 360 midway through.  So, given my appreciation of her Korean work, I was hoping that this movie wouldn't be so pathetically bad that I couldn't watch it.  I also have, and my significant other can attest to this, a pretty high tolerance for not so great movies.  So there you have it.

Back to the movie.  Honestly, I am unfamiliar with the production team and cannot make any comparisons to their previous work, but in this film you can definitely tell it wasn't made with a big budget. I did appreciate all the efforts they put into making cool sets and their stunt work.  Given what they probably were working with, I think they did very well with that part.  But the special effects for one of the big baddies was pretty pathetic and will not appeal to many viewers. But then again, some may get a kick of it.

The cast was full of faces I didn't recognize, with the exception of Jeon Ji Hyun, Colin Salmon (character actor) and Koyuki (of "The Last Samurai" and many Japanese films and TV shows), and that may also contribute to less viewership, but overall, for me, I thought this was a solid attempt, much better than many other live action versions of Anime's I've seen(namely, The Last Airbender).  Think of this as being on par with Mortal Combat (one of the few video-game based movies I thought was watchable), not a great film, but enjoyable enough that you can forgive its shortcomings.  A lot of that I also believe is because of Jeon.  While her spoken English was not the best (she did better with the Japanese), her expressions and body movements were portrayed very well and gave off a feeling of realism and emotion that was not present in many of the other characters. Either that or I'm just a huge fan and love her unconditionally, much like my love for Jackie Chan.

So, I can't recommend buying it, but it certainly won't hurt to rent.