In recent years Kaige Chen has made some very disappointing movies that look extravagent but really have no substance. But if you have seen Farewell, My Concubine, you'll agree that having made this film Kaige Chen can spend the rest of his life making crap and still call himself a good filmmaker.

This movie is, more than anything, a work of art. And it is extraordinary on a number of different levels.

First of all, it covers the Chinese history from 1920s to 1970s, a period in Chinese history whose volitility is unparalled by any other historical periods. The history is played out intimately in the lives of the two main characters. And the film plays out half a century of history without the least feeling of rush. There is an extraordinary attention to detail. In each time period presented, the historical context is applied to the most minute details: the way people dress, the way they talk... is all catered towards creating the most authentic historical experience.

Secondly, the film has presented such an amazing portrayal of Peking Opera. Including the piece "Farewell, My Concubine" itself, every piece of Peking Opera depicted in this film are carefully chosen. They fit in perfectly with the story and help to bring the depth to a whole new level.

Thirdly and most importantly, Leslie Cheung has displayed a quality beyond the word "beauty". Many superficial film critiques claim that this is a movie about homosexuality. But that is not true. It is a movie about beauty and about art. In the character played by Leslie Cheung, gender simply becomes irrelevant. He is the embodiment of a state of mind, that is at once feminin and masculin. From him you see the purest of humanity: beauty, love, loyalty, and a complete devotion to art...
What most people don't know is that when the story was initially written by a famous Hong Kong novelist, the writer herself in fact wrote the story with Leslie Cheung in mind. In a way, the character Cheng Dieyi was made for Leslie Cheung. Or should we say, Leslie Cheung was made for Cheng Dieyi.

Nowadays, in Chinese theatre and in world theatre, movies are becoming increasing commercial. More and more of them are made to please the audience and to hit the box office. And it is harder and harder to find films that are made for the sake of art.
In that sense, Farewell my Concubine is the legacy of a time when filmmakers were still artists.