The newly restored and remastered DVD of The Shining is INCREDIBLE!!!!! As a longtime fan of this film and all of Kubrick's work, I bought the original Kubrick DVD set last year and accepted the transfers for what they were. Then it was announced that the NEW Kubrick set was coming out. I rolled my eyes and said to myself that I was finished. That I had had it with all of these "remastered special editions" that the studio releases well after the original release just to soak up more profits, blah blah blah, etc, etc. Anyway, that I would NOT buy these new editions because really, how good could they be? Well, recently my local video store bought the new set and had all of the films available for rental. So I thought I'd take a look at The Shining. YOU WILL NOT BELIEVE THIS CLEANUP JOB!!!! Part of what gave The Shining it's charm was it's washed-out look (in my opinion)....MAN, I HAD NO IDEA WHAT THIS MOVIE HAD THE POTENTIAL TO LOOK LIKE!!!!! Seriously, this movie looks like it was shot YESTERDAY (with the exception of Danny's haircut and some seriously 70s carpet designs) the colors are amazing and rich AND THE SOUND IS SO CRISP AND CLEAR!!! I can seriously hear the strings being plucked during the opening theme (Dies Irae, by the way). This is what remastering is all about!!! PRESERVING!!! Not screwing up like with the remastering job on the Jaws DVD (such a hack job, they re-did practically all the sound effects, making the shark sound like it was belching at Brody during the climactic fight.....shiver), Warner Brothers made The Shining brand-new all over again. Plus there's now a running commentary by Vivian Kubrick (Stanley's daughter) during her documentary "Making of The Shining" which is very insightful and funny due to her dry wit and English accent (funny in itself since her accent is thick and when we see clips of Kubrick directing he has such a heavy Bronx accent)
Needless to say I ended up buying this DVD, I gave in. How could I not? I don't know if I'll cave in to buying the other ones but if you're a fan of this movie, I'm telling you, BUY THIS DVD. YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED....