I was fan of the first MK when came out, I remember playing it in my 386. when the movie was announced, I almost get an orgasm, and when came out (in VHS, DVD was years from being commercial), I see the movie one and another, and another time. in fact, making an interstate trip on bus, I convince the girl that works on the bus attending passengers of put the movie during the travel (yup, I was carry the tape with me).

one day, the tape broke up. yup, I see the movie more than 100 times and the tape got overused and broke. I cry a lot that day and I even have the broken tape with me. when the movie came out on DVD, I was ubber happy and I bought it, until I was robbed. they break on my house and take out my DVD player, with the disc inside. of course, I bought it again and even today when his FX are really lame compared with the actual, I still enjoy a lot of this movie.

about the movie, well, what can I say that has not be say already?. decent performance, decent FX, great combat scenes, awesome techno metal music and lots of fun for fans of MK. that's it, if you are not a MK fan, you will dislike this movie. but if you like even a little MK you will enjoy seeing all you favorite characters coming to life, even as some of them disappoint a little like Shang Tsung and Sonya.

some complains that I have and maybe this could be a spoiler, is that Kano almost does nothing and die really quickly, Raiden doesn't even fight, Sonya character was under used too and lets not talk about Kitana.

but the fights of Liu Kang where great. (spoiler again) against Zub Zero was awesome. the walking and back jumping in the wall is nothing new but looking Zub Zero doing it is just so cool. and against Reptile, well, is the best fight of the movie indeed, so full of action, great music, you know, you even get some desires of hit somebody.  XD

the end was great too, and when I see it I was stunned looking that will be a second part. but as this time you must know, it was but....STAY AWAY FROM THAT, unless you are a collectionist of MK stuffs so, buy it but DON'T WATCH IT, because then you will not get desires but you must punch somebody.

I was happy when I bought the DVD and see that has spanish subtitles because as you must know now reading my review, my english stinks (but not so much as MK2), so, I only buy DVD's that have spanish subtitles and is like some divinity don't want me to throw my money, the MK2 movie has not subtitles. and I really can't remember what I do with my VHS tape, I really want to believe that I throw it out the window. :P