I must admit that I don't know much about the actual Texas Western team this movie portrays. I understand that the story has compressed some facts in the name of dramatic license. Frankly, I am OK with that. If they had depicted the story along the real timelines, etc. the criticism would have been that the plot moved too slowly. I think the essence of the story is true if not all of the facts.
And it is true that the story line follows the typical Disney formula. I'm OK with that as well. I watch movies for escapism and entertainment. When I want the raw truth, I'll watch TLC, Discovery Channel, or History Channel. But I watch Disney movies because I want to feel good at the end. And that is not always a bad thing.
One thing this movie did do is start a discussion on race with my kids. You see, they have grown up in the South, going to church and school with black kids. We have had sleep-overs with their friends, both white and black. My kids have a hard time imagining that someone would be treated differently just because of the color of their skin. I have told them of the Jim Crow laws, pointed out historical pictures of "Whites only" signs, etc. But this movie helped them to understand the deep hatred some had back then and the struggle blacks faced. It portrayed racism graphically without going over the top. My kids were shocked at the beating the one player took, the vandalized hotel rooms, and that even the coach would receive threats. Our discussion also included why blacks consider some slurs to be so offensive. It was a learning experience for all of us.
Some of the other posts have pointed out that other blacks played then as well. True. And if you watch the movie, you will note that Texas Western is nearly beaten by Kansas and their point guard JoJo White, who is black. Another line is that the "unwritten rules are: you play one (black player) at home, two on the road and three if you are behind." No one was shocked that Coach Haskins recruited black players, only that he recruited....so many. So the movie allows that blacks were playing basketball in college. The racist idea that was challenged was that blacks could not "think" for themselves, that they needed white players on the court to direct them. So the idea of five black players on the court at once was unusual. Coach Haskins states in the credits that he wasn't trying to make a statement. He was just trying to win the game. This of course goes against the pre-game speech he gives in the movie. Inaccurate, but corrected in the credits just minutes later.
Note also the subtil racism by the Texas Western booster. He is so very concerned...until they are winning. Then he asks the coach to "just forget all that stuff I said before. I have sold more dinettes than ever." One of my black friends told me once that she is not scared of the racist in the white sheet. She can see him coming. She is scared of the racist in the business suit because you can't always see him. At the time, I didn't understand what she meant. Now I do.
Two parts of the movie stand out to me. The first is the locker room scene after their loss to Seattle. Listen closely to the lines and see if they don't sound like what is being said in any heated conversation on race. The second is the last scene and credits. As the players get off the plane, you get to see what they did with their lives after college. It is inspiring to read. Also, Be sure to watch all the credits as the actual players and Coach Haskins are interviewed regarding that season. Coach Pat Riley (who played for Kentucky) also has comments and a few scenes from the actual game are shown.
So, if you want to see a documentary on race or basketball, ths movie isn't it. But if you want to watch an entertaining Disney-type movie that will make you feel good and uncomfortable at the same time, this might be the one. Better yet, watch with someone from another generation (older or younger) and see how their ideas of race relations are so different from yours. Maybe not wrong, just different.