I got swindled into seeing the original Hellboy...not knowing pretty much anything about the background of Hellboy or even what to expect, I came out of the theater with mixed feelings. I typically enjoy this type of superhero/fantasy action-type film, but I felt as though the original really didn't offer me much in the way of true excitement.

Fast forward a few years when I and a bunch of friends I hadn't seen in a LONG time finally got together and we sat down to decide what movie we could all agree on...it was 4 votes to 1 (guess who voted 'nay'?) to see Hellboy II. I tried--honestly I tried to get them to agree on Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2 but they would NOT budge. Consequently, I went into this film with rather low expectations--and man was I wrong!

Hellboy II turned out to be unbelievably better than the original--and I realize I may be in the minority regarding how poorly I feel about the 1st film, but I gotta tell you, the sequel ROCKED. From the stunnnig special effects to a clever story, and let's not forget great casting as well as finely tuned directing, what isn't to enjoy about H2? Personally the biggest factor in the movies success has GOT to be the fact that at NO point did the movie ever take itself too seriously. Tongue-in-cheek humor abounds throughout the film, mostly coming from the superb acting of Ron Pearlman as Hellboy. Don't get me wrong, there are plenty of stand-out roles sprinkled all over the movie, but for me, it was the main character which honestly gives this particular story the real bite needed in order to make it totally worth seeing--not just once, either.

What else can I say? If you liked the original, you will positively LOVE H2 and if you are like me and only thought the 1st was marginally entertaining, then be prepared for an exciting shocker. About the only thing negative I have to say about the film was the build-up to the films climax featuring the Golden Army was so big, that the final conflict literally fizzled...at least for me anyway. I have to say that Hellboy's final fight was about what I expected, but--well, I don't want to spoil the end for you too much.

All in all a rare sequel that not only improved upon the original, but for MY $$ actually made up for the fact that I didn't really like the 1st one all that much to begin with.