The Cat's Meow held my interest from beginning to end.  What I found most interesting was the portrayal of narcissism and insecurity in most of the characters.  Each character acts as though his or her life, reputation and desires are the center of the universe.  Everyone else is merely a stepping stone toward their fulfillment, or an obstacle in their way.
Hearst, seemingly the most eccentric and powerful character, tries to control everyone in his world.  He insults guests and insists that everyone abide by his rules.  Oddly, he takes great pleasure in ascending to the yacht's deck each evening at dusk to see the seagulls-and shoot them.
Yet in spite of all of his power, he is insecure about what others think of him.  He has a spy glass built into his floor so that he can watch the movements of others, and he has the yacht "bugged" so that he can listen to guests' "private" conversations on his personal radio.  His jealousy and insecurity about Marion's love eventually bloom into full-blown paranoia.
Ince, whose career is on the decline, is so narcissistic that he treats his mistress as a toy that he can ignore.  Yet he expects her to focus on him and build his ego back up when his own insecurities surface.  Those insecurities cause him to fan the flames of Hearst's jealousy for his own benefit.  And his own narcissism makes him blind to the danger that even he faces from the time bomb that he is creating.
Chaplin, played quite convincingly by Eddie Izzard, is shown to be such a narcissist that he has absolutely no insight into either himself or others.  He believes that each of his fleeting sexual impulses must be satisfied regardless of the consequences, and despite considerable evidence to the contrary, he thinks that the infatuation of the moment will be his love for life.  As Chaplin frantically tries to seduce Marion away from Hearst, promising eternal love, she asks him what he will do about his most recent conquest, a teenage actor whom he has impregnated.  He sees no contradiction when he dismisses her, saying that she was "a mistake."  And his narcissism makes him so oblivious to others that he has no idea how dangerous it is to make the powerful Hearst angry.
Even our narrator, Elinor Glyn, is narcissistic enough to feel that she is above talking to bores and is the only one clever enough to guide the vulnerable Marion into doing what's best.  Yet she is so insecure about her reputation that she refuses to leave her automobile when she realizes that she might be early for the party.
Louella Parsons, the most amusing character, starts out embarrassingly loud, brash and insecure among the sophisticates at the party, and turns overnight into the confident, tough negotiator that her reputation leads us to expect.
The acting, costumes, music and direction are great.  If you like period pieces-or just studies of human frailty-you'll enjoy this.