Black-Death-Speed Metal Teenaged Rocker Dudes and their hella fine girlfriends, living in white-trash Stockton and smoking dope that they stole from their burnt out parents, hanging out on the banks of the Sacramento River. Apathy, rage, anger, and a desire to fit in and belong while understanding that the future is guaranteed to be a bleak repetition of this cycle of working class poverty. Most adults are either hard case Reagan era suits or "Alan Alda/Rob Riener school of self-awareness" ineffectuals and either way are twice as befuddled about this generation as the parents of the flower children were about THAT generation. When the adults are freaks and things go terribly wrong in your little clique that represents the only GOOD things in your life, where do you turn? Do you even care? 
Realistic portrayal of lower-class living in Northern California. Speed Freaks, Burnt out and disenfranchised adults, broken families and lots of testosterone and machismo. Yup. Growing up in the 80s as white trash sucked when the "16 Candles elite" was constantly flashed in your face. Wait until the 90s when Quake and Doom are released and ultra-violence is REALLY embraced by the socially outcast and desensitized youths. The kids in this movie were raised by kids that were already lost, and had little chance out of the starting gate. The movie is a study in futility and the apathy it breeds. Really an honest and insightful look at this segment of our society that doesn't try to pose any answers or solutions, and maybe suggests that there aren't any. Perhaps this movie is more of a Shakesperian tragedy about the inevitable courses of mankind than any kind of message about how the 60s generation eroded traditional family values. (I think it takes a huge stretch to see THAT message anywhere in this movie at all, or maybe just being clueless). 
Yup. Don't let your kids watch this movie, they might think it is cool, grow their hair long and kill their girlfriend and smoke and have casual sex and do other really bad things. Hmnnn... But maybe if this movie triggers this kind of behavior in your kid, you've already got some problems there already, anyhow... :)