If you are really so closeminded as to believe that Kevin Smith should closet himself into the writing and directing the same type of movies as he has previously made, than do not watch this film.  If you are a truly open minded person who believes a person should grow and expand their horizons who is also a Kevin Smith fan, watch away.

This is a great film with a good if somewhat predictable story line.  Smith's touches and editorial view are all over this movie and live true to the View Askew philosophy (which is to say taking something and viewing it slightly differently).  There are a lot of meatheads out there who are expecting Kevin to stay in the same mode of thought and creation as he has been previously with the exception of Chasing Amy, which i am sure the same critics impunged with magnamous hatred.  Open your mind and your view of life.  Please.  Do you really expect a man as brilliant as Mr. Smith to pigeonhole himself into only one aspect of the widely varying influences he projects into his movies?  If your answer is yes, please find a new director to watch.

While I am not the biggest Ben Affleck fan and find his acting rather lacking in many pivotal scenes, I do believe he is a great actor for this leading role.  His self-centeredness definitely projects onto the screen and that is the essence of Ollie Trinke.  Critics, deal with it.

Raquel Castro is a brilliant young actress with a presence and personality uncommon in children.  George Carlin's role may not be what people expect, but in the context of the film as a whole, it is wholly and totally appropriate and keeping with his character.  Liv Tyler's role is also not what I believe most people were expecting.  She plays a sexually rambunctious college student who is learning the sentimental side of men.  Deal with it.

If you have seen any of Smith's movies previously and liked them and you have an open mind or would like to watch a movie with true sentiment, please watch this and enjoy.

If you are expecting Kevin Smith's normal type of film, then snootchy your bootchies somewhere else.