As one might have already gathered many complaints regarding the video and audio transfers of this particular release, please, oh reader, do not be completely disuaded from the actual film altogether. Though if the visual/audio is a significant aspect of your purchase, seek one of the other releases of this film; and by all means seek! And to the tech wizards who have layed out all of the wrongs of this release, please keep in mind there is a large demographic of moviegoers that have never watched nor heard of "The Killer". Or John Woo. So this release, I feel, is a gracious gesture by Dragon Dynasty (although a sloppy one, I admit) to give us back a film that was almost impossible to find on retailer's/renter's shelves.

If you want to look over the technical specifications of the dvd/blu-ray, and are new to this title, read on:

John Woo is a benchmark for action cinema. Personally, this faithful reviewer cannot think of any other action filmmaker (outside of kung-fu cinema) that articulates violence, blood-soaked to the absolute threads violence, better than Mr. John Woo. I remember the first time I watched "Hard Boiled". It was around the same time the video game Max Payne debuted for PC and the original "Matrix" film was showing off American viewers what, we in the states, have been missing all these years in action: sheer, for the hell of it, style! Moments in films where one can help but to smile and utter under his/her breath, "cool". John Woo has these moments in spades.

To this day I cannot find a better representation for the action genre than John Woo's efforts from Hong Kong in the mid-eighties to the early nineties.

"The Killer" can be debated as John Woo's finest and most elegant moment in filmmaking. Woo, in "The Killer", weaves a poetic story that sews equal parts rich characters (as far as actioners go) and magnificent interludes of romantic gun-play, not seen in Hong Kong actioners today outside Johnny To's camera lenses. Unfolding like a well-developed Leone Western, "The Killer" adds more definition to a "Byronic Hero", personified by Woo's original cowboy: Chow Yun Fat. "The Killer" is unique amongst Woo's movies because of its hero's motivator and/or companionship. Woo is no stranger to brotherly love, detailed the best in "A Bullet in the Head". If anybody can provide examples of how strong the bond between friends can really be, Woo can. "The Killer" takes a different approach and focuses upon a developing romance involving proctector and protected. When Fat's character accidentally blinds a young woman during a routine hit, his character is forced to second guess his business ethic. Business ethics that are not commonly shared by fellow businessmen, and certainly not his employers. The bond between once-assailant and victim becomes the underlying focus for Woo's favorite theme of human connections and it's reaction when tested, especially threatened.

I won't waste time summarizing "The Killer" and its plot, because we all know a John Woo film is not sought after for plot. If you like further depth in your Hong Kong actioners, look for Johnnie To instead. In fact, John Woo does a great job at displaying depth in characters that are written two-dimensionally. This is apparent in most, if not all, of his films. However, this detail, by the ending credits of any of his films, will not be regarded to your average movie-goer. Woo has a distinct flare, like none other, for capturing romance on screen, or extracting intamancy in scenes that one would not conceive to be intimate at all. Every one of his action scenes sings; it dances with violence and bloodshed. Woo's action is furthermore ironic, because of its glorification on the matter of violence (cue doves). Beauty bleeds in a Woo picture and the viewer, clenching their fists with anticipation, will urge the violence to prolong, even for just a few more moments. But the genius of John Woo lies in this simple fact: he is one of the few directors that can bring a visual sensitivity to a genre that is mainly characterized by being just the opposite. A perfect example of this is the ending of this same movie.

So reader, if you are new to the Woo, then take caution: once viewing "The Killer", or any of Woo's movies from Hong Kong, you will have reached the pinnacle of the action genre. Boldly stated, maybe, but I stay true to the claim that John Woo's Hong Kong actioners are the best the whole damn action genre has to offer. After watching Woo's contributions it's all down hill. I am still trying to find a film that can outdo Woo's Hong Kong masterpieces, unsuccessfully I might add.

Hell, I'll even take recommendations.

So in short, if you're the type of moviegoer that prefers style to substance (in the action genre, of course) than don't waste anymore time, and add "The Killer" to your collection. And while you're at it, check out Woo's roots of the bullet opera with "A Better Tomorrow" parts one and two, and of course the Holy Grail of actioners: "Hard Boiled".

It's hard to digress when commenting on the subject, so I'll conclude with: John Ol' Boy, stay overseas, get "Red Cliff" out your system, and give us another one of these two-fisted forty-five serenades, because the action genre needs 'em.