I've read that director William Wyler wanted to humanize the unwieldy scale of earlier Biblical films.  He succeeded.  The chariot race may be the hallmark of the movie, but it is the small, human elements that carry the story.  Judah Ben-Hur's love for the slave, Esther; his devotion to  mother and sister and his transformation from the vengeful slayer of  Messalla to follower of Jesus on the road to crucifixion is a character  saga of mythic proportions.
Ben-Hur abounds with stirring dialog and  memorable imagery and establishes female characters in strong, defining  roles.  Mother and daughter endure degradation, imprisonment and disease,  living only for the sake of each other and the faint hope that Judah is  alive.  The love between Esther and Judah is a study of restrained passion.  The scenes where Heston and Haya Harareet are together work well, proving  the axiom that good actors generate their own chemistry; (and, for Heston,  it probably didn't hurt that Harareet was a stunning beauty.) 
A warning  to cultural nihilists:  religious themes abound!  This is, after all, a  Biblical Epic.  Nativity and Crucifixion scenes may remind you of those  "Illustrated Bible" editions you might have seen in Sunday School.  But, in  the hands of director Wyler, they are splendidly and lovingly rendered.  The Jewishness of early Christianity is never questioned; Esther refers to  Jesus as  "...a young Rabbi," a pacifist and healer who ultimately takes the  sword from the hand of Ben-Hur.  Overshadowing all is the heavy fist of  Imperial Rome, its tyrannical rule driving the people to be, in the words  of the departing Tribune, "obsessed with religion." 
As with all great  movies it's the secondary players who invite repeated viewings.  Two lesser  known examples:  Frank Thring, as Pontius Pilate, in a speech rich with  insinuations of realpolitik, cautions Judah against crossing the will of  Rome, ("There are many small men of envy and ambition...").  And Wyler's  decision to cast veteran actor George Relph as Tiberius was a stroke of  genius.  In contrast to the majesty of his surroundings, the Divine Emperor  looks rumpled and flea-bitten; more like a neglected grandfather than the  power behind the Empire.
Some of the SFX may be dated, but, in all the  ways that count, Wyler's rendering of the Ben-Hur tale has improved with  time.