Seductive, not in the visually-stimulating or romantic sense but in that it pulls you into the story and the way the writing is done, you cannot help but want to know what is going?  Dime, por favor!  It is a actually a main story re-told by a person who's own life is also a love story in this movie.

The idea that human nature is what it is and seldom do we change our passion is the premise and the reason for the title.  The title is because whatever it is that drives us, we usually cannot take our "eyes" or our focus, literally and/or figuratively off this passion.

There are clues, but without giving away the plot, there is a lot to that draws the viewer in and allows you to ponder some things.
And therein lies the beauty of how the detective finally solves a decades old murder, and figures out what happened to a despondent, nearly-suicidal groom who lost his beautiful bride before they'd gotten through the honeymoon phase.  So in love, those two, so how do you move on? and if your life shows that you have not moved on wholly and fully, as in never re-married, even if you had tried to date and never seem to want to find a more solid closure to the most horrific crime to tear your world apart?  What of that?

There is also a sort of tertiary or third story of a friendship that the detective had with his co-worker/subordinate, who often was seen slacking off from work at his favorite bar, as he was an alcoholic.  But one can never judge exactly how much or how far a person would go to give whatever they can for friend and the detective cover for him, time and again, picking up his bar tab, getting him home and out of trouble with his wife and getting him to work and sobering him up.  This is sort of frequent routine for him with his co-worker and yet, the astounding and poignant discovery we finally as the viewers see him acknowledge as he realizes just how much his friend gave in his final hours is moving.

I know this review is ambiguous and wordy but this movie is just so powerful and so touching that I definitely was impressed by the beautiful script, with it's astounding plot, story line and interesting characters, the skilled acting and the amazing way the film reaches in and touches your heart.
Cinematography at it's best!