This version of Frankenstein with Boris Karloff is an absolute classic.  It is among the finest films produced within the horror genre.  It is interesting to note that this film was released during the years of the Great Depression when so many Americans were out of work and starving on the streets.  Despite those terrible times when most people obviously could not afford to pay for movie tickets, this movie was well attended by crowds standing in long lines wanting to get into the theaters to watch a spectacle which, for many, was truly frightening.

Boris Karloff, the actor who portrayed the monster of Frankenstein, was also an interesting individual in his own right.  He was a former truck driver who struggled through the 1920s decade by performing in minor roles in various silent movies.  It was through pure luck when Karloff was picked for the role of the monster, and truly a fortuitous one.  He was seen in a cafeteria by Director James Whale who thought Karloff's face would be ideal for being made up as the monster.  Karloff accepted this role as being another pay day for him.  It was not until the release of the film when Boris Karloff realized that this role was the tipping point for him to go from being a journeyman actor to a movie star.  He has for many years until he died in 1969 expressed his appreciation for taking on this role and what it did for his career. Karloff's success in this film was not only in the make up he wore, but also in being able to provide a truly poignant performance which has thoroughly connected with not only the audience's fears but also their sympathies toward those who are rejected outsiders.  Boris Karloff's excellent acting skills were further borne out in many other films which were made in subsequent years.  He was truly deserving of the recognition of being called one of the horror genre's finest...and a true gentleman.

It should be noted that this film did not strictly follow the story line provided by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley's Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus.  It did use some elements of the classic novel by having a scientist mingle with the concept of creating a living human being from lifeless materials in a laboratory setting.  In the novel, the materials used and the process of creation were not clearly stated because of the use of allegorical language by author Shelley.  However, in the movie, the monster was shown as being put together using body parts from hanged bodies which were stolen from the gallows (and a demented criminal brain which was stolen from a medical laboratory).  The novel further has the laboratory being somewhat shabby and ordinary looking in appearance, whereas, in the movie, it is huge and distinctive with a clear Germanic gothic style.  Also, the monster in the novel was quite an articulate fellow, while, in the movie, he or it remained mute.  Despite these differences, Frankenstein the movie was a joy to watch and to remember.  The monster's appearance which was created by makeup genius Jack Pierce was truly incredible and one which has been burned into the collective memory of many thousands of movie goers.  To this day, Karloff as Frankenstein's creation remains the iconic image of the monster for all times.  The other performers in the film also did splendid work.  Colin Clive was ideal as Dr. Henry Frankenstein, the crazed creator of the monster.  Dwight Frye was excellent as the clearly lunatic and hunchbacked Fritz (many viewers mistakenly thought the name of this character was Igor).  We also have other players doing great work in supporting roles, such as Edward Van Sloan as Dr. Waldman and Mae Clark as Dr. Frankenstein's fianc&eacute;e Elizabeth.

Finally, we must recognize that this film was ultimately the great work of a great movie director, James Whale.  He has created a style and ensured that the movie would be moving along at a quick pace.  What truly amazes me is that this film involves only one hour and eleven minutes of viewing time.  However, one leaves with the feeling that the story told was very complete and compelling.  It would be very easy for a movie director to take the same story and stretch it into two hours or more without showing any lagging in action and drama.  Director Whale was clearly the key to making all the elements in this film click together and create a movie which to this day remains recognizable for viewers of all ages!  This is truly an awesome classic which well deserves to be listed among the 20th century's 100 finest films by the American Film Institute.

I have viewed the DVD presentation of Frankenstein and am amazed at how well Universal has been able to take such an old film and make it appear as it was the day it first came out and was seen by the public.  I personally enjoyed the new 75th Anniversary edition because of film and the Bonus features which include:  A Tribute to the film career of Boris Karloff, Monster Tracks which are interactive pop-ups providing interesting facts about different parts of the film, feature commentaries by two prominent scholars, The Frankenstein Files which informs on how the movie was made, Frankenstein Archives with plenty of pictures and posters connected to the movie, a short film called Boo!, and finally a great documentary which highlights the classic horror genre movies made by Universal Studio.  Those bonus features should satisfy the interest of most folks who want to learn more about the Frankenstein film.  All of these special features were a real pleasure and makes the viewing of this film a memorable event.  If you have not yet viewed this film, don't just walk...run to the nearest video store and get your hands on this DVD.  Better yet, purchase this through Amazon.