In 1994, Stephen King and Frank Darabont teamed up to bring the movie The Shawshank Redemption to the screen; an amazingly well done film about a man (played by Tim Robbins) who is found guilty of a crime he didn't commit and  who desperatly searches for a way to escape from jail.  Not only was the  movie a great sucess, it also was a great adaptation of Kings novel and was  also supurbly directed by Darabont.
Now, in 2000 (although the film was  released in '99) the two have teamed up to do it again with The Green Mile,  based on the novel of the same name, which is also by King.
The Green  Mile is a touching story about hope and redemption in a place where all  things end in death.  The main story rotates around two men: Paul Edgecomb  (played by Tom Hanks; Saving Private Ryan) and John Coffey (Played by  Michael Clarke Duncan: The Whole Nine Yards).  As the story starts we find  that Paul has come down with a terrible bladder infection.  That infection  has been slowly effecting everything he does including his job as overseer  of the inmates on Death Row, or the Green Mile as it is nicknamed due to  its green-grassy colored floor.  Although he knows that everyone at the  Mile can see he is in real pain, Paul tries as hard as he can to keep the  inmates from seeing him in a weakened state...although his efforts are to  no avail.
Then, one day, this tall black man named John Coffey is brought  to the row for the murder of two little girls.  (this happens in the  opening of the movie).  Aside from being as big as a bus, most of the other  men on the Mile don't see him as being any different from the other  inmates.  However, Paul does.  And when Coffey magically heals him of his  bladder infection, he truely realizes that there is more to John Coffey  than meets the eye.
Having seen this movie twice already, I must say that  with a truely amazing blend of wonderful acting, amazing photography and  directing, a supurb plot and almost perfect adaptation of the book, the  green mile goes right up there on my list of movies for 1999-2000 and  should definatly been on everyone's bookshelf...especially if you are a  Stephen King fan.
Also stars an extensive list of great actors including  David Morse, Bonnie Hunt, James Cromwell, and a cameo by Gary Sinise.
The  Highs: This is how a book is made into a film...everything about it, right  down to the detail of the sets, is really poweful and amazing to see.
The  lows: "A Three Hour Tour..." need I say more. (still a great  movie though)
The Lowdown:  If you want to rent something you're sure to  love and watch again and again, pick The Green Mile.
Revuman:  So  long...and thanks for all the fish...whoops, wrong book!