Well, here's a nice treatment of a weird classic.  Brilliant and bizarre, "Idaho" is both deliberately and incidentally campy.  Its extras are terrific, and its visual poetry receives terrific color and clarity.

The story of a pair of young hustlers, which opened the mainstream arts to the very subject of male prostitution (the film "Johns," the novel "Sarah" etc.), seems to be passing the test of time.  How quirky is this film?  An early scene features oral sex being performed by a stocky aging john on a handsome but drowsy Mike Waters (River Phoenix).  We learn about Mike's narcolepsy, a condition which has him fainting into sleep at moments of stress.  This gives Gus Van Sant's tendency toward abstract cinepoetry full reign, and he depicts Mike's dreams of shooting stars and salmon swimming upstream, of houses crashing to the road.  Mike, the trailer park product of his mom and brother, is loveless and lost and seems not to mind disappearing into his lush dreams full of symbols of seeking home.

Then there is Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves), a slumming aristocrat who enters the world of hustling as a gesture of rebellion against his father, the staunch and proper mayor of Portland.  He becomes Mike's guardian angel and companion in the hustling trade and then his partner on a vain search for Mike's mother.

Along the way, some pretty colorful characters crop up.  Back when Twain wrote Huck Finn, picaresque meant escapes and scrapes, chases and searches having to do with violence and action.  Since sex is the new violence, road pictures like "Idaho" and "Y Tu Mama Tambien" feature erotic rather than pugilistic encounters.  The coked-out Bob Pigeon playing Falstaff to Scott's Prince Hal.  The clean and clownish Daddy Carroll, who's erotically stimulated as Mike tidies his apartment dressed as a little Dutch boy:  "Scrub little Dutch boy...faster!...harder!"  A German performance artist who dances with a lamp before engaging Scott and Mike in a little light S&M.  Strange but funny scenes that make hustling look sort of entertaining.

But the less famous cast, including real street kids from Portland, are caught in their hang-out spot discussing the dangerous and less savory aspects of selling one's body.

Van Sant clearly adores the quirky individual and the poetically rendered wide open space.  He uses music very well here, as is necessary in a strangely plotted hallucinatory film.  Folk western yodeling fills the opening scene with ethereal beauty as Mike walks alone on black ribbons of empty potato-belt highway.  A crooned Rudy Vallee love song "Deep Night" makes an ironic comment on the shallow liasons of prostitution.  Madonna's "Causing a Commotion" bubbles in the background as a red-headed hustler describes being beat up by his john.  These song choices, stylistically all over the place, nearly define the term off-beat.

This 1991 film catches famous director Van Sant in the midst of a transition between gay art film of the Jarman/Fassbinder/Cocteau/Pasolini variety where boy-love is celebrated and satirized to his mainstream pictures like "Good Will Hunting" and "Finding Forrester" where it's sublimated and coded.

In a way "Idaho" is a beautiful mess--a cinematic carnival with talking centerfolds (Keanu Reeves!), confessions of incest, gritty street kids...cribbing Shakespeare(!), clouds in swirling slow motion, utter theatricality, utter naturalism (Mike's moving fireside chat with Scott), and a futile quest with no pay-off but the journey itself.  To me, that's pay-off enough.