Victor Erice's debut as a filmmaker back in 1973 was truly an auspicious one with The Spirit of the Beehive. The Spanish film covers in a subtle but yet effective manner the social turmoil of the time with the characters in the story especially when it comes to Ana portrayed by Ana Torrent who at the time was a brilliant child actress with her wide mysterious eyes and countenance of intrigue. You can also appreciate her in another film she was in as a child called Cria Cuervos and later as an adult in Alejandro Amenabar's Tesis.

From the beginning you sense the distant harmony between the wife and husband where the wife writes letters that'll never be mailed and the husband puts up barriers by being absorbed in his work on the beehives. You get a feel of the desolate location of the seemingly disregarded house where the family lives.

Then the story of the two little sisters starts to take over. We have Ana and Isabel who go to the local hall of the small town to watch Hollywood's 1930's interpretation of Frankenstein on a film reel. You could see the children are captivated by the story of the monster particularly Ana who has questions about it even when she's still watching the movie. Isabel being the more menacing one of the two starts to invent stories to her sister about the monster at hand suggesting that she has even seen one in an abandoned small house near a well. Needless to say, Ana begins to explore the area and finds one day an adult's footprint on the ground leaving her to wonder even more about what her sister told her. Isabel in the meantime begins to play dirty tricks on her sister even playing dead at one point where Ana is deeply startled and begins to pull away from her.

What we see next is a fugitive soldier found by Ana in the abandoned house who later gets found and killed by Franco officers.  Ana develops an innocent but wordless rapport with the man that began from the first encounter with each other. In a symbolic way, you can say that by Ana giving him an apple for him to eat in that first instance when they met is her representation against fascism.

When the father is called to identify the man's body, he is puzzled as to why the man has his musical watch and coat. At breakfast, he takes out his watch and observes his daughters and solely by body language is able to tell Ana is the guilty one.  But he waits until he catches Ana at the abandoned house looking for the man. Ana is startled by her father's presence and runs away. This is where a pivotal change happens in Ana's psyche. This is where she imagines herself in a scene similar to the Frankenstein movie where the little girl meets the monster for the first time. After Ana is found, she doesn't eat or sleep and won't speak to anyone. Her sister comes to make amends with her in the room where Ana is finally getting some sleep. It seems the runaway incident of Ana is pulling the family closer together because even the wife begins to show some affection and care for her husband.

At the very end of the movie, Ana walks to her window at night and hears a train in the far distance and prays to the soul of the monster letting him know she is there.