The essence of William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet is magnificently captured in this 1968 rendition directed by Franco Zeffirelli.  His decision to use teenagers in the starring roles verses older actors brings realism to the story.  It is like a "breathe of fresh air."  Leonard Whiting does an excellent job portraying Romeo.  I especially enjoyed the Capulet ball scenes.  Whiting (Romeo) enters the ball wearing a mask in order to conceal his identity.  Fittingly, it is the mask of a cat.  Throughout the scenes at the ball we see Romeo on the prowl.  It seems as if he is playing a cat and mouse game with Juliet (Olivia Hussey) being the mouse.  Once their eyes meet, he cannot let her out of his sight.  He continues to maneuver to get closer and closer to her.  He even makes some unsuccessful attempts to "catch" her as depicted in the dance scenes.  However, this "cat" will not be denied, he persists until eventually he catches her and they share a tender kiss.  Hussey also plays her role extremely well.  At first she seems totally unaware of the "danger" she is in.  She is like a beautiful gazelle totally unaware of the lion  (Romeo) stalking her.  Once her eyes meet his, her heart, like that of a frightened gazelle begins to pound rapidly.  Her face gives the audience the impression that she is confused as to which course of action she should take "fight or flight."  She decides "flight", but it is too late, she is already "caught" by his paralyzing gaze.  Another phenomenal aspect of this series of scenes is the solo being sung while this "cat and mouse" game unfolds.  A young man sings "Juliet's theme" magnificently.  To me, this is far and away the highlight of the entire film.  I had "goose bumps" throughout my entire body just listening to it.  This theme was the thread that wove this film together like a great tapestry.  It was used on no less than ten occasions, however, the singing of it was clearly the most powerful use of the song in the film.  I will buy the soundtrack just for this version.  The timing of this song was crucial to the film because it set the stage for what was to follow in the film.  I have heard the tune many times in the before, however, I had never heard the lyrics before.  I think the lyrics contributed as much if not more to the film than the melody. Pasulino De Santis won an Oscar for best cinematography and deservedly so.  However, I feel that Nino Rota deserved an Oscar for the job extremely well done in the area of sound.  This film is definitely a "classic".  I wish that I had seen it sooner.  It should be required viewing in school.  I think that William Shakespeare himself would have enjoyed this rendition of one of his most famous works.