I first saw Rounders when I had been playing Hold'Em for about 2 years and noticed a big change in the "drop ins" at the tables.  (Drop In - A new player that isnt one of the regulars that usually play in a reoccuring game or location)  People were throwing out quotes from Teddy KGB, the Russian character played by John Malkovich.  I could tell the movie was creating an insurgance of new players to the game.  Years later you can play Hold'Em at nearly any table in any casino and say something like 'weaddy ageasieev' and get at least a couple chuckles.
Matt Damon plays the main character, Mikey McDermott and Edward Norton his best friend Lester "Worm" Murphy who's freshly released from a prison term that Mikey might have also had to serve if Lester would have given him up.  Feeling obligated for the sacrifice his friend made, Mikey trys everything he can to keep Worm out of trouble while attempting to hold together a failing relationship with his girlfriend while juggling law school.  Mikey cant resist the draw of poker and ends up back in the frey of the Rounders again realizing that life is a grind without his true love of poker.
Damon portrays the main character brilliantly and Norton was so convincing that I actually felt angry at him for fouling everything all up.  Malkovich invents his own odd version of the Russian accent while pulling off the role of Teddy that is completely unforgettable.  There's also a great cameo by the 3 time World Series of Poker champion Jonny Chan.
Rounders portrays a professional gambler more realistically than I've ever seen it before.  From hiding large amounts of cash all over the house to the dark smokey poker rooms hidden away in a basement to ring games at the casino.  Amassing large fortunes and getting broke again then back in the same day.  The life of gambling is one of extremes, danger and euphoria.  People get drawn into it and like a drug become addicted, a small handful end up conquering it and carving out a life for themselves.
This movie can almost be attributed to the start of a new revolution of poker players, TV shows like World Poker Tour sprang up, attendance at the World Series of Poker has increased by bounds every year.  Though it was an already growing sport, Rounders has been the catalyst to growth and has pulled people into poker like never before.