Because everyone's high school experience is like a little microcosm of society (separate groups competing and manipulating for recognition and control), I think High School Musical is very valuable (and very fun) edutainment for both kids and adults.

In the crucial stage of a teen-ager's search for identity that can often come with suffering to both child and parent, it is a beautiful thing that this movie offers the pure essence of happiness, confidence, and strength.

For me, one portrayal of the high school/society parallel was during the excellent song "Get'cha Head in the Game" when Troy sings "Why am I feeling so wrong? My head's in the game but my heart's in the song." The battle between the head and the heart is painful no matter what your
age. Society can be too saturated in its compulsion at "doing things right" and obligating a person to keep their "head in the game." Yet, at the cost of beauty, one's sense of self, and love (as this
movie successfully conveys).

Wonderfully, a happy balance between these two (the head and the heart) and their equal validity is expressed in "We're All in This Together."

The Jocks' and the Brainiacs' attempted to divide Troy and Gabriella's relationship for their own agendas (at the manipulation of Sharpay and Ryan). A very beautiful and key part of this movie was when after the two groups failed at this attempt, I perceived that they were so moved by
Troy's & Gabriella's sadness at separation (and guilty by their own behavior, at what they themselves had engineered) that each group sincerely apologizes to the couple for what they have done wrong. A very adult thing to do! This mature behavior turns all of their high school world around. And after further manipulations, this unifying spirit propels the two camps to join with the couple instead of trying harder to separate them and succeed at only their own game.

The joy and celebration of "We're All In This Together" confirms the happiness of finding greater success in the joining with others and being who one truly is vs. being separate from others and not being who one truly is! Troy - "I finally figured out that all our dreams have no
limitations." Gabriella - "Everyone is special in their own way, we make each other strong.  We're different in a good way. Together's where we belong."

The energy from these kids is contagious and the presence of happiness is easily felt!

NOT TO MENTION -- this is a superb musical! Musicals can be corny or dumb, but this is thrilling singing and dancing! Sharpay and Ryan's "Bop To The Top" number is so incredible that it leaves me practically speechless because there is so much that could be said on just that
one song alone! But there were no duds whatsoever. Every number was top-notch.