While this film is historically interesting, any fans of the original KING KONG looking to be wowed again by Merien C. Cooper will probably be disappointed.  While the film does have points to recommend, with its impressive set design and costuming, and a brilliant (as always) score by Max Steiner, it's unfortunate that the two actors cast in the leading roles fail to impress.  Randolph Scott (star of innumerable B-westerns) is positively wooden as the hero, Leo Vincey, and the stilted dialogue given to him doesn't help.  Helen Gahagan as "She" (I don't believe she's ever referred to by Rider Haggard's name "Ayesha" anywhere in the film) is less-than-impressive in a role that really requires a stunningly statuesque beauty the likes of a Sybil Danning or an Ursula Andress (who played She in the 1960s Warner Bros./Hammer Films adaptation of the book).  In fact, Gahagan is more reminiscent of the evil queen in Walt Disney's SNOW WHITE (it's even possible that the animators on that film were influenced by this one). Definitely NOT believable as someone whose overwhelming sexual attractiveness to men allows her to dominate them over the course of thousands of years. And again, the dialogue she is given to deliver is atrocious, the kind of highly stylized verbiage that might have been pulled off by an actress of superior talent, which Helen Gahagan clearly isn't.  A bright point in the film is the disarmingly charming Helen Mack (previously seen in SON OF KONG) as Tanya, who has a natural beauty and allure (despite her somewhat annoying tendency to constantly refer to the hero as "Lay-o") comparable to Fay Wray's.

Overall, the movie doesn't quite come off convincingly, though, and so it's easy to see why it did poor box office in its time and has faded into obscurity.  Regardless, this film will still be required viewing for fans of KING KONG, SON OF KONG, and THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME, Merien C. Cooper's other classic films.  The colorization process (which I was initially abhorrent of back in the late 1980s when they colorized the original KING KONG) has come a long way since then, and actually adds value to this film (purists can still watch the black and white version, also included on this disc).