This review is for everyone who wrote "serious" reviews on other forums and here who  hated the movie. They take themselves way to seriously!  I usually don't like  Adam Sandler movies - too inane  - but I found this one to be hilarious. I've read some reviews that were scathing by "feminists" who found it revolting. But I'm a semi-feminist, liberal, female,  nearly senior citizen, very happily married who has fought for and worked in "manly" jobs. So I live like a feminist but enjoy being a female. I found this the perfect escapist movie. It was fun, fluffy and picturesque. And clever. Warning spoiler alerts! Come on -how could you not find "sheep shipper" and "stand with the dolphins" funny? And giving Heimlilch to the sheep and having him spit out a rubber toy? I laughed really hard- and I usually don't. And the women were stunning works of living art, how can you not enjoy pretty women? The kids were clever, conniving sorts who you had to admire for their ability to manipulate, but deep down good kids and sure the adults were over the top but fun.  Sure the plot was implausible and yeah, I thought they were mean to the fattie women in the hula show but having worked in the tourist industry here I found the send up on the tourist industry hilarious. Maybe I enjoyed it so much because I live in Hawaii, have done "pet herding" of sheep with my border collie so roared at the sheep scenes, have worked to protect dolphins so enjoyed the scene of them cavorting off shore (quick but it was there), laughed at the "swim-with dolphin" yearnings of the boy only to find out he cannot swim, have been around enough superficial folks  to recognize the well drawn spoofs of them, as well as been amused by "womanizing" but basically kind hearted guys who are older but always have younger women falling for them (for real!) to find it all amusing. I enjoyed the spoofs on relationships, folks crazy enough to have pet sheep (and I have friends who do!) and the send-off on the tourist industry. Sure it was implausible but haven't we all known folks who were a bit like each of these characters? No? Then you need to get out more. LOL!

It does not pretend to be an important movie. But it is fun!