When I heard about this being released, I thought alright here we go this should be really good.  I actually thought the WWE dropped the ball with the Legacy of Stone Cold DVD set.  I thought MAYBE JUST MAYBE they would redeem theirselves but instead what we get is almost like a "double dip."  The first disc is all right with a documentary on it that should be very entertaining.  Discs 2, 3 and 4 is where the ball is dropped so to speak.  Most of the matches and most of the promos or interviews from Disc 4 is stuff we have already seen.  How many sets already have the Wrestlemania 13 match with Bret or the title wins over Shawn, and Rock from Wrestlemania 14, 15 and 17.  There's not a whole lot of new stuff on here.  That's why I had to give this one only 2 stars just because I've seen this same stuff so many times before.  The USWA footage should be good but good lord where is all the WCW stuff.  They could have shown his TV title wins, the War Games match from 1992, the tag match from Halloween Havoc 1992 that went 30:00, the US title match vs. Great Muta, the Bash at the Beach match vs. Ricky Steamboat (which Austin has stated is his favorite match of all time), etc.  There are so many many matches from WCW that could have been included on this set.  They even missed some good WWE matches as well and went with the same stuff that we've seen time and again.  I would have liked to have seen the In Your House match against Bret in 1997, maybe his 1997 Royal Rumble win, the 8 man tag from No Way Out 1998, the match against Rikishi from No Mercy 2000 when he came back after the neck injury, the tag match with Triple H against Undertaker and Kane for the World, IC and tag titles at Backlash 2001, maybe the Invasion 2001 match, the great Summerslam 2001 match against Kurt Angle, and some good Raw or Smackdown matches as well would have rounded this one out very well.  Honestly, with the match line up they include and Disc 4 footage I just don't know if this one is really worth getting it or not.  I mean believe it or not at one time Austin was a very good wrestler, one of the best and his WCW footage would have been worth the price of the DVD set alone but we get just one WCW match and not a very good one at that.  So, once again, WWE tempts us with what could have a great disc set and instead gives us what we have already seen time and again.  Way to go WWE on dropping the ball again!!