This version of The Ten Commandments originally aired as a two-part miniseries on ABC in 2006. This new rendition of the Biblical story of Moses, found in the Bible and wonderfully told on screen in 1923, 1956 and 1998, is literally two steps away from being the worst screen version. That distinction goes to the steaming pile of animated crap starring Christian Slater as Moses and Alfred Molina as Rameses. What follows are the pros and cons of this version.

Pluses

I. A stirring main theme by Randy Edelman (Gods And Generals, Gettysburg, Dragonheart). Nowhere near as epic as Elmer Bernstein's grand theme for Cecil B. DeMille's epic remake of The Ten Commandments, which he had filmed as a silent movie earlier in 1923, but still a good one.

II. Dougray Scott's valiant attempt to portray a doubting Moses. Granted, this was a strength/weakness of this version. Moses at times came across as almost heretical several times when describing how God spake unto him. More on that in a moment.

III. The inclusion of the battle with the Amalekites, which is omitted in the 1923, 1956, 1998 and 2007 screen versions. Though Miriam and the women joining the battle is probably inaccurate to Scripture (the Bible is silent on this), it was a good decision in terms of drama.

IV. The inclusion of God providing manna in the wilderness & Moses getting water from the bitter stream which was called Marah and Moses striking the rock to get water from it (a symbolic representation of Jesus, the Water of Everlasting Life), all of which are omitted in the 1923, 1956 & 1998 versions, were also good choices.

Cons

I. Moses describing God as short-tempered and I can't remember what else. Moses also says that God thinks about things and needs someone to help Him do His work. Even Jethro describes the desert as a place perhaps big enough for even a god not to find you. Such views are entirely anti-Scriptural.

II. God speaks six sentences at most in the scattered brief moments that His voice is heard. In the Burning Bush scene, He does not tell Moses exactly who He is, merely I AM WHO I AM, and apparently, Moses has to figure out the rest for himself, which does not make any sense whatsoever. (In the Biblical account, God saith unto Moses, Certainly I will be with thee...after that thou hast brought the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain, among other instructions, which He giveth unto him). When God spake unto His servants in the Bible, He spake clearly and not in parables, leaving them puzzled as to what He saith.

III. The plagues were not depicted as they occur in the Bible, as some of them come on screen with no explanation whatsoever.

IV. The golden calf looked so fake and was so much smaller than in the 1923 and 1956 versions.

V. The parting of the Red Sea was poorly done with the CGI available now. The 1923, 1956 and 1998 versions did the parting of the Red Sea in spectacular fashion (though the 1956 version is obviously the definitive one for adults and the 1998 one for kids)

VI. The Ark Of The Covenant was very poorly done and very small as well. Even the non-Christian film Raiders Of The Lost Ark got the look just right.

VII. The Israelite committing adultery with another Israelite could have occurred and it provided a twist to the story, but I think it was thrown in there to sex up the drama for a modern audience (though no explicit nudity is shown).

VIII. Too many scenes of the Pharoah holding his son, either in his arms or on his lap. Nasty. Besides, the Pharoah looked gay with all the eyeliner on him.

This version is Not Rated, but contains some graphic violence and two brief sexual encounters.

Stick with the magnificent 1923 & 1956 and kid-friendly 1998 screen versions. Avoid this & 2007 screen versions like the Bubonic Plague.