One of the most complex stories in American literature fell into the hands of one of the most shallow art-poseurs ever to hit the silver screen ...it seemed like a good idea at the time. Not.  If Dune had been Lynch's own  invention, it might not be as harshly judged.  We would not be obliged to  note the miscasting, the triviaizaton in the movie of major characters in  the book, or the omission of of sequences vital to the integrity of the  story and the addition of sequences that added nothing to it. We could just  say it was another bit of late-night cult fluff from the master of the  genre.But Frank Herbert's classic deserved better. What Lynch presents here  is te Cliff Notes version of Herbert's saga, which was a deeply  philosophical and introspective journey into the soul of humankind. A  theologian as well as a novelist, Herbert pondered the difference between  the natural order of the universe and the arbitrary order of civilization.  His characters were complex and alive, and the labyrinthine plot was held  together by a clarity of thought only accessible to a philosopher of his  stature. Lynch's characters were hand puppets.The cast, wth the exception  of Lynch's onerous sidekick Kyle McLauglin, was first-rate, but they can  only use what they are given. And they seemed to have been brought along to  demonstrate their roles more than to become them. The script was hokey and  maudlin. What's more, it was delivered at a pace that gave the movie the  same feeling as the "here are scenes from the next episode" part  of Battlestar Galactica.The layers of patient conspiring that made the  novel so intriguing were turned into a series of Fawlty Towers skits sans  the laughs.  The stentorian Patrick Stewart was anomalous as the ugly,  folksy Gurney Halleck. Duncan Idaho was an extra. Sean Young made a good  Chani, I think, but she wasn't around long enough to tell.  Corn-fed,  Sean-Cassidy haired McLauglin made the schizoid Muad'dib look like Al Gore.  And who the hell was Sting supposed to be? He was nothing ore than a  tool,tacked on by Lynch to economize his already rambling, scatterbrained  plot. On the up side, the special effects were cool. "Were" being  the key word.  Now, if want to see a silly western with great FX, we can  watch the Matrix. The best effect, of course, was the Sardukar dressed in  1960s asbestos suits.I would like to see this movie done over.  Directed by  Ridley Scott.