Romance in the Shamrock Lane on a big green bus!!!!!

  We are talking comedy and charm in big doses! This is a well written, fast paced, script about romance.... with some blue language hovering in the air from time to time.
  In Ireland they'd say "soft weather," regarding the rain....Here it might be said "blue weather ahead," not appropriate for young children.

  Nevertheless, this sweet little romance, is worth it's price, because you will want to re watch it, from time to time, say...on a rainy night... with a cup of tea, when you have a cold, and enjoy some good craic (that's Irish for fun, but you already knew that didn't you?

  And this tiny film will also manage to amuse the gents; it's not a typical chick flick! This film was a, "two thumbs up," from Siskal & Ebert: High praise indeed!

  The main characters interact well and of course; while we all know it's not real life, we want to believe that this could happen to us! Some of us would hope.... "For a second time around...."

  It does feature a terrific cast and the wonderful scenery of County Clare in Western Ireland. The secondary characters remind us that this movie is  truly about the spirit, cleverness, and determination of the Irish people; even against the insanity of the American political machine: politicians, political campaigns, and everyone involved.

  We want to buy into the myth that true love awaits each of us, away from home, or, in this case, over the big blue pond, no matter how spotty our complexions, how homely, how plump; how unsuitable, or ill matched. Our next true love will see beyond the outer surface into our hearts of gold, and they are waiting.... to be found at an Irish matchmaking festival.

  It does shortchange Irish women- being mostly about the Americans coming over to capture the hearts of the Irish menfolk...until one cunning Irish lass manages to snatch the Senators heart. One of the minor characters is Marcy's friend; a young woman with a strong heart who runs the hotel and manages the menfolk, no small feat.

  Janeane Garafalo is brilliant as the young but jaded campaign aid/advisor; David O'Hara is a surprise; he sets out to win her heart, and wins ours, in the process. O'Shay is a rascal, that we love from the first moment we set eyes upon him. Denis Leary steals the show as the evil Campaign manager who will use and abuse anyone to suit his own needs.

  While the scenery also plays a starring role....an Irish friend of mine recently was heard to grumble, "It's not all Guinness running from the taps, and butter and eggs hanging from the trees, in Ireland."

  The scenes on Innishear Island are lovely and the scene at Shannon Airport is haunting when Marcey gazes upon the mural of President John Kennedy. She manages to mispronounce names that most tourists know well; and most campaign aids would have researched with Mapquest and Google, in this day, and age.

  Still, it's a "perfek" little international romance (in the words of Pop Larkin, in The Darling Buds Of May!)

  Enjoy........

  If you enjoy this movie I also recommend: Waking Ned Devine, Widows Peak, and The Darling Buds of May, where a very young Catherine Zeta Jones made her screen debut.

  Slan, Y'all!!!!
  :^)
  McKai