Since I was a young lad, I enjoyed this movie start to finish.  Of course my parents didn't let me watch it so when I found out it was on TV or somebody had rented it, I would rush to their house and watch it.
 Loving  a movie as a boy should be different from loving a movie as an adult but  really, not much has changed since then.  The added scenes are like gold to  most of us (there are some attention getters who say that they tear down  the meaning of the film, but do you think Cameron would allow the studio to  release his greatest film if this were true?  No.  I feel nothing is lost  in the added scenes and actually more is recieved.  When a perfect film  gets longer, I feel no pain of another 17 minutes of entertainent  bliss.)
 Anyways, watching the film as a child I was intrigued by the  action scenes and the amazing suspence.  Now I watch it for the same  reasons aforementioned, but also enjoy it for it's originality and  symbolism.  Some say symbolism in an action flik, yeah right.  Well,  Cameron confirms it in the interview included on this disc.  The entire  movie is like a tribute to his experinces in Vietnam.  Technology is  defeated by simple design and tactics.  I enjoy every minute of this film  now as I try to compare it to Vietnam (call me a freak please).  A colony  is set up on some distant, basically unknown region.  The French set up  colonies all along the coast of Vietnam.  A threat invades killing the  foriegners.  The Vietnamese rebel and kill many of the French living there.  Marines are sent to rescure the survivors and revive control of the  colony.  I could finish the movie but I have a word limit.
 I cannot  compare this film to Alien as they are so different in the directors'  approach and time at which it was made.  Aliens took the ideas of Alien and  threw in a lot of changes that not only validate it, but differentiate it  as a sequel.
 I cannot stress you enough to buy this film.  This film  that has defied the test of time and remains a comparable film to even some  of todays most advanced special effects.  This film that has caused an  uprising in copycats (Pitch Black most recently).  This film that forever  changed the publics view that a blend of genres is not always a bad thing.