Alright,  I gotta make something clear.  It's no big secret that this is a two-hour cut of a four-hour movie.  Anyone out there who read the book knows that it is nearly impossible to cover the content of the novel in two hours of film.  So Mr. Thornton did his best to do the film some justice.  This was a big challenge in itself considering the style in which the book was written.  Previously, with Sling Blade,  he was Independant and working from his own script.  Here he was working from an adaptation of a Cormac McCarthy novel by Ted Tally.  He was so intent on delivering an adaptation that did the book justice that he delivered  a four-cut.  When the studios suggested that he cut the film down (four hours is just too much for the masses to handle) he cut it down to where it was, eventually, just a shade under two-hours.  
I went into the theater, knowing this, and thoroughly enjoyed the film.  It had everything I could have expected from the novel and I was VERY impressed by the two leads.  Lucas Black (Sling Blade) also turned in a great performance.  Seeing this film in the theater was an experience in itself because the scenery is just, flat-out, breath-taking.  Despite what some may say,  the love story part of it was very convincing.  It felt natural and real.  The whole movie is very convincing and it deals with growing up in a realistic manner, in that, you can't always get what you want, and sometimes doing the RIGHT thing is what's most important.  
People who say that this film is boring are probably used to Micahael Bay type films (not that there's anything wrong with them) where everything is spelled out for them and the whole thing focuses on style rather than substance. If you are one of these people and you didn't like the film the first time,  try going back into it with a more open mind, and you might find something more.  
Trust me folks, this is a must-see film.  I give it a 10/10.  I'm hoping that one of these days,  we'll eventually see the orignal cut,  but for now,  I'm happy.  Keep on going Strong Billy Bob.  We Love YA.