Angelina Jolie is hot. And yes, she gets naked in this movie. There I said it. Just wanted to get that out of the way. I know a lot of you will probably buy the movie just for that reason, but looking past that, you will find a good, but predictable, thriller.

Angelina Jolie plays a FBI detective assigned to a serial killer case in Canada. In 1983 the a young man killed another young man on a country road, made it look like his own death, and took the other man's identity. He then lives that identity for awhile and then starts the cycle over again. For twenty years the police can't seem to catch him. That is where Jolie's character comes in. Ethan Hawke plays a man that says he witnessed the killer doing his thing on his last victim. He works very closely with the police and Jolie's character. Along the way we run into Kiefer Sutherland's mysterious and creepy character. Basically this is a "who-dunit" movie where you try to figure out who the killer is before the movie finally shows you. That's where the problem is with the flick.

I guessed the killer long before the movie revealed it. The movie started off really good. Sure it's a rip off of "Se7en", but it was a good one. Even the opening credits are a complete rip off of "Se7en"'s opening. Through the first hour of the film, you are intrigued by the storyline & the characters. Then toward the end of the movie, it falls into a trap of absurdity. The moment you see the scene where someone dies in an elevator, you will say to yourself...."What the $#%@?". I still think this is a good movie, but it could have been so much better. I don't really think it was the director's (DJ Caruso) fault as much as it was the script.

The acting is pretty good though. Jolie carries most of the movie on her back. I have always liked her as an actress and she does a good job here. Hawke plays his role pretty well, too. Oliver Martinez, Tcheky Karyo, Jean-Hugues, Gina Rowlands, & Kiefer Sutherland round out the cast. Sutherland's character is particularly frustrating, because we don't see very much of him. He is only in the movie for about 10 min. and it's a shame. I hate seeing that good of an actor wasted like this.

I really liked "Taking Lives" through the first 3/4 of the movie. Toward the end, it unravels and it's a shame. What could have been a very memorable movie like "Se7en", turns out to be a good, but not great knock-off of that outstanding thriller.

Special Features: The special features here are pretty good, though. There are 4 featurettes about the making of the film. They are all decent and longer than I thought they would be. The gag reel is watchable as well. I have always loved seeing these put on DVD's. And you also get the trailer. Not alot of stuff here, but what is here is good.