Scent of a Woman is a movie that aims to please all audiences. On the one hand, it satisfies those seeking meaning and heart in a movie, yet on the other, it provides off-kilter humor from a known rough and tough actor, Al Pacino (Godfathers, Devil's Advocate). 
This film is the tale of a weekend spent between a crass, retired Lt. Col. (Pacino) who because of his individualism and disregard for personal safety was rendered blind late in his life, and a poor and timid prep high school student in O'Donnell, who agrees to "babysit" the retired war hero over Thanksgiving weekend. What Charlie (O'Donnell) doesn't know is that the colonel has planned a rambunctious trip which is set to end rather abruptly. The movie contains funny scenes with a blind Pacino driving a Ferrari and dancing the tango.
A subplot exists, where Charlie is grappling with a moral dilemma at school, where he battles between snitching out a classmate, or keeping his "honor." Predictably, Col. Slade gets involved and offers his two cents, which provides for an adequate finish, with a gut-wrenching and heartwarming performance by Pacino securing him his first Best Actor Oscar.
Pacino's acting as a blind man, though not perfect, is sufficient given the circumstances in the movie. He offers up kindness and "pearls of wisdom" by barking out orders. 
Many who saw this movie, had expected a pure mushy drama, and for those who sought this sort of medium, were most likely disappointed. The movie displays great balance in each individual's character, and successfully strays away from either being too mushy, or too crass.
Where the film lacks overall balance is in the performance by O'Donnell. I know director Martin Brest wanted to achieve a sense of Pacino's and O'Donnell's being opposites, but this was taken too far it seems. Charlie (O'Donnell) releases too many "duhs" and "aaahs" among other various verbal fumblings to make his character believable. And although he doesn't stand anywhere close to Pacino in the actor's pyramid, this film does not do him justice; because, as his fans know, he does obtain a few nuggets of good acting.
Otherwise, the movie is funny, and even at times tear-jerking, long yes, but well worth it. As being one of the "pioneering" DVDs available to the public (released in such form in August of 1997), this DVD contains essentially no extras... but the film itself is a minor gem.