Steven Speilburg has changed us all. He's kept us out the water for nearly 30 years with JAWS, He's helped us make contact with CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, He's taken us on a journey with Indiana Jones to find the ark of the covenunt with RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK,he's introduced us with a friend 300 million lightyears away in E.T. and now he's brought us to a remote island and showed us the most majestic yet terrifing creatures that we could only see in fragments of our imagination with JURASSIC PARK. JURASSIC PARK is probably one of the greatest movies of all time and it's the 7th top grossing box-office hit in movie history. Dinosaurs them selves astound us. Even their fossil remainments haunt us and awe us with their great sizes and shapes of many assortments. 
The DVD of Jurassic Park is rather good. With over 75 minutes of behind the scene features and featurettes. But it needs some improvments. It sould have been produced under the DTS sound system rather than DOLBEY DIGITAL. DTS has clearer and crisper sound and the picture has alot more quality. So try to by the DTS standard if you can. Eitherway the dvds are the same just different quallity of sound. 
Now you now the story, peolple on Island, park on island, people in park, park has dinosaurs, dinosaurs get out of park, people get chased by dinosaurs, dinosaurs eat a couple of people, and the remaining people get of the island and all the dinosaurs die. Okay? But otherwise than having good visual effects, fun roller coaster plot, and good actors, JURASSIC PARK has a fonominal soundtrack. John Williams has brought us THE JAWS SAGA, STAR WARS SAGA, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, INDIANA JONES TRILOGY, SUPERMAN, JFK, E.T., and of cource the JURASSIC PARK TRILOGY. The themes have that authentic John Williams style with it's exciting and thrilling yet sailient themes. Expessualy the end when the Helicopter flies into the sun set. A slight piano conceirto fades into a majestic and most absolutly beutiful orchestra ensemble then later into the triumphent trumpet/french horn fanfare and the into a mysterious end with a deep euphonium and piano ending . The music is wounderfull and with out John William's tallent for writing motion picture scores it wouldn't have been truly JURASSIC PARK.(while your here on Amazon.com buy the sound track while your at it.)
So, its got amazing special effects, fun plot, great cast, and a monumental soundtrack. This is JURASSIC PARK (hum the themes now.)