The confusion caused by some of the other reviews has compelled me to write this one.  Do note that I have seen only the subtitled one and everyone knows how sketchy translations can be a times.

First off Inuyasha and the gain defeat Naraku.  It had to wait until after sunrise because it was a mooless night.  The wind tunnel disappears, the incarnations get their hearts, and Kohaku remembers that he has a sister.  All Sesshy fans will be disappointed to know that Mr. Fluff makes only a fleeting appearance of a few seconds at the time of Naraku's death.

The gang splits up, probably all to take a break and to contemplate what's next.  Miroku goes back to the temple to talk to Mushin, and terrorize Hachi.  Sango heads back to the village to add more flowers to the graves and picks up Kohaku on the way there.  Kagome starts spending more time in her own time, Hojo asks her to go with him to the amusement park, and Inuyasha argues with her about spending so much time in the modern era when they still have jewel shards to find.  His reaction to the photobooth suddenly taking pictures of them was funny.

Then the plot gets underway.  Kanna takes Kagura to a cave where there is a mirror with Kyguya trapped inside, in which case they start going around hunting for the five items they need to free her.  Kohaku possesses one of the items and Inuyasha another, so of course there is a battle each time.  Mushi gives Miroku a letter from his grandfather talking about Kyguya.  Kikyo is being her usual controversal self, and gives Kagura one of the items they need without a fight then walks off.  Hojo's ancestor runs into Inuyasha who is in a bad mood because he is missing his left sleeve of hit Hoari, Kagura took it.  Because Hojo is so clumsy Kagome decides they should aid him in his mission.  his mission is to burn the feather robe because the full moon has lasted every night since Kyguya awoke.  Miroku goes to the village where his grandfather perished and learns more about Kyguya then decides to head to the cave where the mirror was.  There he runs into Sango, and nearly gets killed by her.  Meanwhile, Kyguya, in search of the feather robe, runs into Inuyasha and they fight.  Kagome's arrow is absorbed into her mirror and then she sends it flying at Inuyasha.  Inuyasha is currently tied up and can't dodge so Kagome jumps between the two and takes the arrow.  The feather robe is caught by the arrow, too.  Kyguya kidnaps Kagome.

Basically the whole gains meets up at the shore of the lake where the castle is.  Kanna and Kagura decided to betray Kyguya but get frozen in time while sinking to the bottom of the lack when they try.  Kyguya freezes time using the feather robe but Inuyasha and friends aren't affected because they are wearing things from Kagome's time.  They charge the castle only to get beaten back by Kyguya and her powerful mirror.  She traps Sango, Kirara, and Kohaku and then proceeds to suck out Inuyasha's human half with her mirror, turning him into the beserk demon.  Kagome, in order to reverse it, kisses him, that's right people Kagome finally kisses Inuyasha!  Everyone breaks free and battle Kyguya and about that time Naraku pops out of Kokahu's back and joins the fray.  He wants to devour Kyguya so faked his own death.

In the end Kyguya is destroyed, Naraku escapes with Kohaku, and the quest for the shards and Naraku's demise starts all over again.

I found the epilogue to be extremely funny.  Kagome denies kissing Inuyasha claiming amnesia and Inuyasha says the wrong thing again and gets "sat".

All in all a fun movie.