During the 1990's, Will Smith was getting started on his major career as an actor. He was featured in the television sitcom Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air. I'll admit, I was never too fond of the show, however any time it came on while flipping through the channels, I would leave it on because of how funny Smith was. Anyway he soon starred in the film Men In Black, which was a big success and is what got him jump-started on his major career.

With all of that in mind, in 1999 he starred in a film known as Wild Wild West. As a kid, I had no clue there was originally an old television show in the 60's called Wild Wild West that the film was loosely based on. I later learned from my parents while at Universal Studios in Hollywood, CA when we were sitting watching one of the attractions, which was a live-action Wild Wild West reenactment, which blew my mind away. (it may have been Knott's Berry Farm, I don't remember)

But anyway, this is about the movie with Will Smith. There isn't really much to say, other than this will probably go down as the ONLY western film Smith will have ever done.
The story and plot is decent, nothing new or spectacular, but good enough for a movie such as this one. Minor sub-plots such as the one concerning Salm Hayeks character seem out of place, but then again it's the "Damsel in Distress" that it's supposed to be portraying, however executed horribly. The acting is not great. As stated, I've seen Smith in almost every film he's ever been in, and this was probably the worst has been in. Though my guess is he did try with the script he had to work with. Kline was ok, just not the best. And seriously, the only other film I saw Salma Hayek in was Dogma, and she did far better in it than this. Again, I imagine the actors had a massively hard time making this.

What really drives the movies grade down for me however, is the elements. Ok, it's set in the late 1800's in the old west, so there will of course be trains powered by steam. There will be guns, there will be horse-drawn carriages, and of course saloons and cowboy boots. Since when were there motor-powered penny-farthings, giant mechanical spiders and other sorts of machines that either shot giant razors that would home in on a victim or otherwise?
Well it is true most of this movies plot centered around inventors, gadgets and such. But it is blown out of proportion and really taken to extremes.
The special effects were good though. With that, and the story/plot, those are the only things giving this film it's stars, it's like one star for each piece.

So why watch this you might ask, if the acting sucks, elements and overall final product are stupid (not to mention it had nothing to do with the original show despite character name similarities and the being the same name as the original show)? Well, I would say so that you can tell other people, that yes, you were able to sit through this. Otherwise there are FAR BETTER western films. I haven't seen too many though, I would suggest either Dances With Wolves or Back To The Future III ANY DAY before I EVER suggested this one. Actually I would never suggest this one. I would suggest any Clint Eastwood or John Wayne westerns instead.

If you must see this, be it only for the purpose of saying that you saw this film.