Dungeons and Dragons is a fast-paced, exhilarating, and often innovative fantasy film that certainly exceeded my expectations, even if it does contain some unfortunate, but not critical, flaws in its storyline. While this review is detailed, it does not contain spoilers.
With regard to innovation, it is certainly refreshing to see a fantasy film that is not cloaked in a science fiction disguise, dares to contain no obvious element of direct appeal to children, and has no visual depictions at all of the modern era. Even better, it takes fantasy to its extremes as, unlike most standard D&amp;D adventures, there is no reluctance to depict: thieves as heroes, insanely tall buildings (mainly towers - as one might expect of a city dominated by mages), heavy and frequent use of both standard D&amp;D and new magic by experienced aristocratic wizards, very dramatic use of extremely powerful magical items and monsters, and an epic plot of empire-shattering proportions. It is regrettable to think that this last point needed some improvement - but more on that matter later. Personally, I love escapism, and this film is one of the best ways to achieve that state of mind as I have ever seen in visual form.
To complement all these extremes of fantasy, larger-than-life characters are presented as both antagonists and protagonists. Jeremy Irons, in one of his most controversial roles, expertly plays the main villain Profion, the Empire's most powerful politician and wizard. It is his self-appointed driven, megalomaniacal destiny to overthrow the current government and rule as some sort of dictator. In both his private and public scheming, he sometimes shouts, rants, and raves...but this is credible when one considers that this is exactly how certain famous dictators have behaved in the real world. Later, when Profion is on the verge of possibly obtaining his goal, he releases all his henceforth barely suppressed emotional fury so that the often unexplored territory of ultra-selfish, highly destructive naked lust for power is plain to see in all its triumphal ugliness. Profion's henchman, the cold, brutal, and sadistic fighter Damodar embodies a common truth to so many tyrants in that they get others to do their truly dirty day-to-day work so they can retain at least some veneer of respectability.
On the side of good, a few figures deserve special mention. The main hero, Ridley, an extremely capable commoner with plenty of untapped potential, displays considerable complexity in his motivations throughout the film and even has a dark side that surfaces periodically. Ridleys' best friend, Snails, eventually shows that a less than heroic life can be redeemed. Their new adventuring companion Marina, slowly, but ably, bridges the gap between the mages and commoners on a micro-scale. Empress Savina shows considerable passion and authority in both her brave words and actions, capably defying the accusations laid against her and behaving like a truly good, but firm ruler. Lastly, Elwood the Dwarf embodies the often amusing stereotype of his race while still providing valuable assistance where it is needed. To be sure, these characters and others are acted with passion and liveliness which might be too much for some viewers, but considering what is at stake in this fantasy world and how the movie does not take itself too seriously and tries and succeeds to be exciting and fun, this fact is perfectly understandable.
All these characters, settings, and events are supported by a superb musical score...one of my all-time favourites. The rousing score perfectly enhances the emotions of every single scene and is well worth a listen to on audio cd apart from the movie. Composer Justin Caine Burnett is to be highly commended for his fantastic effort!
Regrettably though, the storyline, as full of potential and frequently innovative and thrilling as it is, could have used some additional work. My main problem is the morality of using the evil red-dragon controlling Rod of Savrille. I personally find it hard to accept that a good ruler would ever use such a device, especially if she already has a similar device that controls good dragons. It's best for the viewer to assume that the Empress wants the Rod solely to keep it in her safe custody where she would never use it, but rather keep it from Profion's covetous clutches. This way, good and evil are much better defined and some storyline ambiguities cleared up. Furthermore, it would have been appropriate to make the film at least half an hour longer as most people don't have the time or motivation to read the movie's supporting literature to get a firm grasp on the backstory and some of the more complex details concerning the development of the characters and the political situation. I don't have any real problem with the film's various cliched scenes, as there are sufficient innovative scenes to balance them out and all cliches are presented in an exciting manner, backed with appropriate music and interesting characters. D&amp;D purists should realise that this movie does take some liberties with the game's rules, but these concerns can be explained away owing to the usual practice of having at least some new rules/spells/etc. for different D&amp;D worlds, plus the usual constraints placed on movie makers by the nature of the film medium.
I recommend this film to all teenagers and adults who desire escapism and/or a convincing, thrilling fantasy based action/adventure. Personally, I cannot wait for the sequel (which is set up in this film). Dungeons and Dragons is an impressive, even if flawed, effort from a first-time director who should improve as he continues in his profession after this promising start. 
My Rating? 8 out of 10!