Sure, a lot of people are idiots and just give this DVD ones and misspell words, but they don't go into detail about the songs and show itself. Let's begin with the first track.

'Love Boat Captain' is a great opener, made better by Eddie Vedder(lead vocals) adding "Let the show begin" into the fourth line. Boom Gaspar(keyboards and B3)'s keyboards sound good with this song, but not with many others, as I'll get to. 'Love Boat Captain' is a good song with a great sounding solo, but something goes wrong here, and I think this permeates the whole show. Mike McCready(guitar) goes way overboard with the solo, making it into one that belongs more so in 'Why Go', a great song off of "Ten". While the solo is a little much, the song is brought back down well by Eddie allowing the crowd to join him in repeating "Love" at the end of the song. After a strange fade to black, the most unfortunate sounding song of the whole tour comes up, 'Last Exit'. Ordinarily a great rocker, the overall song has been diminished in my eyes by one thing, Stone Gossard(guitar) switching his main guitar from the '57 Gibson Les Paul reissue to the Fender Stratocaster. Listen to any live version of 'Last Exit' on the Binaural Tour bootlegs, and you'll see what I mean. After 'Last Exit' finishes, the feedback carries into 'Save You', one of the best tracks on "Riot Act." There is nothing special about this playing of this song, my personal favorite being on the Tokyo bootleg. After this finishes, in comes one of the show's highlights, 'Green Disease'. While Mike accidentally plays the first note to 'Cropduster', the overall song sounds great. Jeff Ament(bass) is very loud, as he should be for this one, and Eddie has the tone on his P90s a little lower than usual, giving the opening notes a heavier and more distorted sound, which I think fits better. After a strong ending, the other highlight, 'In My Tree', starts up. Now, all people will notice that it is no longer started by Matt's drum, which I think kind of takes away from the song's beauty.  But even so, Eddie's guitar sounds more distorted on this track, and makes it more of a rocker. Another problem with the 2003 bootleg series is that Boom has a big solo on this great song.  While it is definitely the kind of song that could have an organ solo, it is a little too long. But either way the song goes off without a hitch, with an especially strong outro by Mike McCready. 'Cropduster' follows strongly with one of the best plays of it from the whole tour, which gives way to Eddie's nightly banter with the crowd. Next is the trusty warhorse 'Even Flow'. While the song does rock, the solo is a little too long, though the way it builds up and comes down is extremely reminiscent of the original recording. The next song is a cover of John Lennon's 'Gimme Some Truth', which is a great song, but it's a little out of place, and it sounds better on an acoustic guitar, I think, which can be found on the State College bootleg. 'I Am Mine' sounds good, just as it should, which is followed by the best playing of 'Low Light' for the whole tour. What makes this one stand out is the fact that Jeff's bass is absolutely booming, and his backup vocals really come through. 'Faithful' makes a surprise appearance, and Matt Cameron(drums)'s face as he starts the song up is very amusing. Overall the song does well, the lighting's kinda funky, but it fits, though the condition on-screen becomes a little pixelated. But there is a bit of a downturn with a grossly overlong 'Wishlist', with Eddie using the E-Bow, at first doing a very nice solo, but then overdoes it by almost going into the 'RVM' jam session, with the improv at the end going too long despite a very good response from the crowd. That is one great thing about this concert and the next one, a VERY enthusiastic crowd. 'Lukin' follows with the amusing intro of "This one's another sing-along..." I think with Eddie switching from the Telecaster-style guitar with uncovered humbuckers to the Gibson SG with P90 pickups, some of the songs have lost their bite, this being one of them. But either way, 'Lukin' is always a fun one. 'Lukin' is most always used as an intro to another song, usually 'Not For You', but here it segues seamlessly into 'Grievance', another song which loses something with Eddie's new guitar. Some eye candy for this song, though, is a woman that is really enthusiastically singing along in the middle. 'Grievance' then gives way to a different kinda song, '1/2 Full", which really reminds me of 'Deep' from "Ten", which makes an appearance the next night. But this one does well, nothing spectacular. But what comes next is always a favorite, 'Black'. Stone's new resonator guitar works well as the intro to this song, making it sound more like the stripped down studio version found on their best-of album "rearviewmirror". Mike does a very good, very heart-felt solo for this song. As the song comes to a close, is almost seems like he's ripping his trusty Strat apart as he pulls the whammy bar this way and that. But as he cuts the sound for the finale, you can hear Boom very lightly tapping away the rhythym to the song's finale, and can see on Mike's face that he is a little frustrated that Boom kept it going when Mike had tried to end it. 'Black' then moves into a hard version of 'Spin the Black Circle', which Eddie dedicates to New York's record stores, "'Cause they're the best in the world." The trusty 'RVM' then follows, but the overall feel for the song is set by Eddie's slow intro, which is of course a cool change-up, but this feeling kinda carries over into a rather dead jam session. The grand finale sounds good with Mike soloing like crazy, and looks cool with Eddie dropping his guitar as he walks off.

The second disc starts well with a strong version of the trippy 'You Are', made more trippy with flashing lights, strobes, and some funky spotlights. Unfortunately, most of the attention is focused on Eddie, who is definitely not the stand out on this song. While it is very dark during this song, I think most of the attention should go to the guitarists for this song, with Stone's echo and Mike's sweet soloing. 'You Are' goes into the awesome 'Thumbing My Way', another stand out from Riot Act, and which I think has some of the best placed organ on any song in the whole Pearl Jam library. The words are great, and Eddie standing alone with his tiny Martin acoustic guitar makes great visuals. This is an intricate song, though, so there are a couple muted notes and mis-hit strings, but that doesn't take away from this awesome track. 'Daughter' has a rather fast intro here, with Stone immediately breaking into it, rather than testing and letting it ring for a second or two. This song does well,  and after a little prompting, Eddie gets the crowd going with a nice singalong before bringing Ben Harper out to continue it, and it's cool to hear Ben Harper sing and say "This is the greatest band in the world". Next up is one of my favorite of Pearl Jam's songs, and it really isn't theirs. 'Crown of Thorns', from the short-lived, but good group Mother Love Bone, makes a surprising appearance, only being played two other times at very emotional concerts, the tenth anniversary show in Las Vegas of 2000, and the tour closer in Seattle for the same year. But again, if you listen to these versus the one in New York, you will again hear a difference in Stone's guitar, the Les Paul from 2000 sounding better. Another jarring difference is the intro song 'Chloe Dancer' is this time done by Jeff, who's bass sounds huge on this song as well. During the 2000 tour, it was played on a synthesizer by Brendan O'Brien.  The synthesizer intro was actually used earlier in the 2003 tour at the concert in Atlanta. 'Breath', a great classic from the early days, makes a roaring comback on this tour, being played at 12 of the tour's 72 shows, which is quite a difference from the one time it was played during the 72 show Binaural tour. A nice version of 'Betterman' follows, with crowd singing the whole first verse and chorus. 'Do The Evolution' follows to close the set in a pretty good fashion, and it's cool to see Mike singing in on the "Hallelujah" part, seeing as how he is almost never heard ever. After a speech about the whole stage shaking from the crowd's enthusiasm and stuff, 'Crazy Mary' starts up. The long organ solo fits in well here, and segues brilliantly into a long solo from Mike McCready. 'Indifference' then pops in, with a rather eerie green glow over the whole stage. Eddie brings Ben Harper back onstage to sing the first verse to this great ballad, and of course Eddie finishes it. The tempo then switches as they start a real punk song called 'Sonic Reducer' from a real punk band called the Dead Boys. Strangely, though, here Jeff is replaced by Tony from the Buzzcocks, the opening band for Pearl Jam that night. With a really nice introduction from Eddie, the Who's 'Baba O'Riley' starts up. Unfortunately, though, the camera never focuses on Mike playing the fast intro. But the song does well, with the crowd singing back perfectly when needed. My only problem is when Steve Diggle from the Buzzcocks sings into the mic for about one second. It is funny and stuff, and is evidence they're having fun, but it sounds really odd. The always great 'Yellow Ledbetter' closes the show, with Mike playing a nice little intro that gives way to the trademark opening notes. The finale is also extended as Mike breaks into a nice build-up that comes down nicely to close the first of two nights in New York.

Overall, the show is very tepid, with a few nice moments. But there is nothing on this show that is very above average, and is at times not that great to listen to or watch. But, no matter who you are, you will have good nights and bad nights. For me personally, the show highlights would have to be 'Green Disease' and 'In My Tree' in the first set. But I would still recommend getting this DVD, because it is a window to a band doing what they love. All that I have said has been from a die-hard PJ fan, so yeah. I notice the little things a lot more, but someone who's just looking for a cool concert DVD, they should get "Touring Band 2000" first, and then this one.

The special features on this disc are pretty good, though, my favorites being Eddie's solo take on 'Dead Man', which I think sounds awesome, and he and Mark Seymour playing 'Throw Your Arms Around Me' in Australia. The blooper reel is fun to watch, though I wish that they had picked a live version of 'Down' to play over it, rather than the still very good studio cut, seeing as they had 18 live tracks to choose from. A highlight from the 'Down' video, aside from all of their whacky antics, is Matt, the drummer, playing Eddie's SG Jr. back to back with Jeff, the bassist. 'Bu$hleaguer' is good if you're into political stuff.  Fortunately they didn't spoil the feeling of the concert by playing 'Bu$hleaguer'. The 'Fortunate Son' video is also pretty good, with the best playing of it on the whole tour, showing the numerous groups Pearl Jam toured with in 2003. 'All Those Yesterdays' sounds wonderful acoustic and does a good job of showing the PJ crew, ending on a high note with one crewman holding a shirt emblazoned with the slogan "Vive Le Rock", which I think is a fitting end for a DVD showing Pearl Jam still churning out great music for over 12 years.