FINALLY the movie I have been waiting for has been officially released for online viewing in the comfort of my own home 'theater' room sans other peoples screaming kids and over priced concession snacks and $10 bucks for a ticket. Isn't the digital age just marvelous for the most part?

So, for the movie at hand...

I saw the original 'Don't be afraid of the dark' when it was first shown on television back in the 1970's and it was a movie that has always stuck in my mind because of the horrible creep factor of those nasty little creatures and their hoarse whispering voices combined with viciously sharp teeth that are always ready to take a bite out of some poor saps ankle. This was also the only movie that I have ever watched that gave me one of the worst nightmares that I have ever experienced, and that was several years after I had seen the movie on TV! I broke down and bought a copy of the original movie on DVD along with 'Gargoyles' (another great TV movie from the same era). Now I think I will need to buy a copy of the new version too so I can pull them out and watch them whenever I want without the wait.

This movie has all of the creepiness of the original movie plus the added bonus of some great close-up shots of the nasty little teeth stealing monsters thanks to digital enhancements that really bring these horrifying buggers to life in a visceral manner that will scare the Hell out of the majority of kids under the age of about 12 years old. Good times ! The acting was pretty good for the most part and Katie Holmes is as adorable as ever. The actress that played young Sally really grated on my nerves because of her ubber precocious personality that is so typical of child actors these days. Hopefully she will grow out of that wide eyed cry-on-cue acting and some day go on to rave reviews for being a truly gifted actress. Time will tell.

The movie pretty much follows the same storyline as the original TV movie did but in a far more polished manner because of a bigger budget and better special effects. All in all I give it a 5 star rating because it has some really great scream-out-loud moments (LOVE those!) and and some pretty darn good special effects that make me want to see this movie again and even buy a copy for my own movie collection. I really hope that you enjoy the movie as much as I did and if you have a chance to see the original TV movie - go for it!

 - John in Tucson