Oh, wow!!  This movie is wonderful, inspirational, moving, and heart-stirring!  Oh, and powerful - these are the best words to describe this superb movie.  I ordered "The Hiding Place" DVD a couple days ago, and watched it last night with my family.  I have read the book, and this DVD really brought Corrie's story to life.  It is a wonderful production, filmed in Holland and other places in Europe, and you will in no doubt be anticipating what happens as this drama unfolds its striking scenes.

"The Hiding Place" begins with Holland under German occupation, and it brings you to the Christian Ten Boom family, the father actually a watchmaker.  Corrie (Jeanette Cliff), who was the first licensed woman watchmaker in Holland, and her sister, Betsie (Julie Harris), get involved in the underground, helping the Jews. A secret hiding place is built by a certain Mr. Smit, and the Ten Boom family holds "raids" to practice in case the Gestapo comes.  But the time it takes for them to get to the secret room and put everything back in order is too long.  They must get better.  They are instructed by the man who built the secret room to turn mattresses (so that the Gestapo would not feel a warm spot on the bed), empty trashes and ash trays, and put everything back so that it looks like it is just an elderly father living there with his two daughters.

The scene comes when Corrie is summoned from her watch making work to help a man, and after saying she'd get him the money he needed, Corrie took to her room because of illness.  But it is a trap, and the Gestapo comes and captures Corrie and Betsie and their family.  I was sitting on the edge of my seat here!  Corrie and Betsie are eventually taken to Ravensbruck, a dreaded extermination camp in Germany, where their faith is sorely tested (nakedness, illness, hunger, thirst, hard work, etc.).  Christ's love radiates from Betsie's heart, as they tell their fellow prisoners about Jesus.  The living conditions at this camp are horrible, and the movie portrays them very realistically and you cannot help but be moved; you feel as though you are actually there.  God's love continually helps them, even though they do not understand all the reasons why they are here, suffering so.  I must admit I went through several tissues (by the way, I recommend having a box nearby - I couldn't help but to cry), so moving was this movie, as I saw how they and Betsie suffered so.  I cannot recommend this movie highly enough, and God's love and forgiveness shines forth in this beautiful film that will inspire generations to come.  The actual Corrie Ten Boom gets on at the end of the movie after Corrie is released from Ravensbruck, the latter leaving her fellow prisoners with the words, "God be with you!"  Betsie's last words still ring in my ears, "We must go everywhere.  We must tell people that no pit is so deep that He is not deeper still.  They will believe us, because we were here."  What they suffered, we will never fully realize.  I will never tire of this glorious production.

The actors and actresses did a wonderful job with their roles; Julie Harris played the part of Betsie with striking skill, and Jeanette Cliff did AWESOME with playing Corrie.  I give a hearty applaud to them, and everyone else who partook in this film.

This movie is the true story of Corrie Ten Boom and her family.  It is a story that will never cease to inspire me.  It is a story that shows how awful humans can be to other human beings and it echo's God's forgiveness.  I do believe that those who have read the book will enjoy the movie better than those who haven't, but this movie is for everyone.  We can all learn something from "The Hiding Place".  I thank God for this movie and may God continue to bless it.

I hope my review has been helpful to you.  May God, whom Corrie and Betsie and their family served, bless you!

-P. Charles