Dune (Extended Edition) has been a long time coming. When the original movie was released in the theatres running at over two hours, the film was a financial flop. However, over the years David Lynch's adaptation of the novel has achieved a kind of cult status with its incredible set design and largely faithful translation of the book.

The Extended Edition was originally released only on TV several years later without Lynch's approval -- so much so that he asked that his name be pulled from the credits and replaced by the infamous "Alan Smithee" (an approved name for directors who want to distance themselves from a finished project). Until now, this extended edition has never been available on DVD so this then is the first chance for most people to have a look at an alternate version of this classic.

So how does this Extended Edition stand up? Well, in short, good in parts and really bad in others.

First the bad -- the film opens with the original Princess Irulan  narration replaced by an overly-long and unnecessary narrative by someone who sounds like a Southern gentleman (think Colonel Sanders). This narration is accompanied by, believe it or not, production photos. Even worse, Colonel Sanders' obtrusive narration goes on throughout the movie. Not a good start at all. The other bad thing is that most of the music has been rescored and re-arranged even in the non-extended scenes. For example, the first scene where the Guild Navigator visits the Emperor has some added music from another scene -- the original scene did not have any music at all.

Now on to the good -- once the film gets under way, most of the additional scenes actually do add more to the movie. In fact, almost every major scene in Dune has a slightly extended bit, with a little more action and a surprising amount of character development. For example, going back to the first meeting between the Emperor and the Guild Navigator, the conversation that precedes this, between the Bene Gesserit advisor and the Emperor, has been slightly extended, making the Bene Gesserit a more human and doubting character. Then, later in the movie, there's a short scene which shows how the Fremen extract the Water of Life from a juvenile sandworm.

Overall, the extended edition, while still a long way from being a good film, does add a lot of interesting bits for the curious Dune fan. Hopefully there'll be a Special Extended Edition which does it right and puts back the Irulan narration while leaving in the extended scenes.

Oh yes, this Extended Edition DVD comes with the original version as well so you can enjoy Lynch's far superior version when you're tired of the extended version. Also worth mentioning is that this DVD comes in a very nice metal presentation case -- much better than any metal case I've owned so far.