I have to admit that I was really confused at the beginning of this movie. I noticed that director David Lean does not stamp "time-setting" markers at the front of his movies; if not done today, it would be irresponsible, but Lean can be forgiven because of the era in which he made his films. It would have been very helpful to have known that the movie opens some years after the Russian Revolution. (The appearance of Alec Guinness as the Soviet Comrade-General is just as believable as his casting as King Faisal in Lawrence of Arabia.) In any event, I was well into the movie before I began to make any sense of it. It was around the time that Pasha (soon to become Strelnikov) tried to enlist Lara's participation in the demonstration that I began to fall into the movie.

The movie itself offers much to the history-buff concerning this important time in Russian history:

"The March for Freedom" -- This scene represented for me the entire spectrum of the type of repression that had been occurring in Russia since 1904. It was especially reminiscent of "Bloody Sunday," that infamous day in 1905 that changed Russian citizens' view of Tsardom forever.

"Army Revolt" -- It was interesting to see just how futile the average Russian soldier's plight was in the trenches along the German front in WWI. The merging of the fleeing and renewing armies and the murder of the officers show without a doubt how the Revolutionary forces had taken control so quickly.

"Journey East" -- Zhivago's (and family's) trip along the Trans-Siberian Railroad revealed the bleakness of the landscape and the bloody civil war between the "Reds" and the "Whites."

"Strelnikov's Point of View" -- In this scene, it can be argued, is the single-most important reason why the Soviet experiment (and Communism in general) failed. When Strelnikov exclaims that "the personal life" doesn't matter anymore, it is very telling.

"Red Army At Odds" -- I particularly liked the argument among the Red Army concerning whether or not they should allow Zhivago to go home to his family after they had "kidnapped" his services. Even in the Red Army, "personal life" was not dead, it seems.

In addition, Rod Stieger's character was very well-conceived and acted, representing that species of human in any land or time period that is able to survive as an "opportunist." The love story, I have to admit, left me a little flat. Zhivago's wife was so nice and generous to him throughout that I lost a little respect for the man when he allowed himself to be swept up with Lara. The book-end scenes with the Soviet Comrade-General (Guiness) and Zhivago and Lara's daughter was especially effective, and provided a happy-ending.

Overall, a very good movie, but wrongly marketed as a love story.