As one of the animators who worked on the Beatles' animated epic, YELLOW SUBMARINE, I am delighted by the almost universal praise heaped on this recent DVD release of the renovated and digitally remastered version of the movie.
It is immensely satisfying to know that a whole new generation has come to discover the delights of this 1960's flower power masterpiece, and with the legendary "Hey Bulldog" sequence - deleted from all but the original British prints - reinstated in all its bizarre glory, Beatles fans can at last experience the full version of this psychedelic animated odyssey as it was originally meant to be seen.
I know I am totally biased in giving the film a 5-star rating, but I would say that the twelve months I spent working on it (during 1967-1968) was, without a doubt, the single most exciting period in my almost 50-year career in the animation business.  It was made even more memorable by the fact that, during production, I became engaged to Diana, my wife of nearly 40 years, who worked on the "LUCY IN THE SKY WITH DIAMONDS" sequence.
The struggle to produce anything resembling a final script while production surged inexorably on past the writers towards an impossible deadline, the creative arguments, the personality clashes, the budgetary nightmares, the physical kidnapping of the film - with the whole thing being propelled by the sheer exhilaration of knowing that we were all taking part in an astonishing revolution in animated films - all made for a heady and never-to-be-repeated experience.  For a detailed look behind the scenes during the making of the film, read Dr. Bob Hieronimus' "INSIDE THE YELLOW SUBMARINE" and Al Brodax's "UP PERISCOPE YELLOW".
While the authors differ on some points, both books are packed with detail and anecdotes, and the debate about who said what and who did what on YELLOW SUBMARINE seems set to continue for quite some time. But there is one undeniable fact in all of this - if producer Al Brodax hadn't stuck his neck out and taken a chance on producing an animated feature all those years ago, the phenomenon that was the YELLOW SUBMARINE would never have set sail on its fantastic voyage. For that we all owe him a vote of thanks.