"Akeelah and the Bee" is not only inspiring; it will move you.  You will cheer for Akeelah.  You will cheer for her community.  You will want to know a kid like Javier and giggle at just how completely silly, fun and sincere the kid is.  You will have your mind blown by the performances of Keke Palmer and Samuel L. Jackson.  There are some surprises along the way as well:  such as the gangbanger who, in a moment of remembering his own 5th grade blue ribbon-winning poem brings out a hint of compassion and a spark of pride.  Not just in himself and what he'd done; but in Akeelah and what she worked so hard for as well.  The character you think is the antagonist and yet turns out to be something very different.  This movie shows a lot of things that do happen within pre-teen friendships from bullying to jealousy within friendships and yet Akeelah remains human throughout.  Keke Palmer's portrayal of her is more real than most "Actors" out there today.  She showed a whole range of emotions; she showed determination and above all - she showed that she's got chops.  She had BETTER go far in movies or there is no justice in the world!
This movie has inspired my 7 year-old to want to learn how to spell better - to beg me to buy word games such as Scrabble ("No, mommy, not Scrabble Jr, they didn't play that on 'Akeelah and the Bee', I want to play the REAL Scrabble!" and Boggle, Upwords, anything that will help her learn new words - even word-find books - she's devouring those now.  If this movie can inspire a new spark to a love of learning, it deserves every award out there!
Word to the wise:  There are no explosions in this movie - no car chases or anything along those lines.  What you will see is a moving, intelligent movie that doesn't talk down to kids.  It's more real than 90% of the movies out there with a cast that, though largely unknown (with the exception of Angela Bassett and Samuel L. Jackson and oh!  yes, the Principal is, I believe, played by a bloke who was a bit of a surprise...you might recognize him from "Revenge of the Nerds" in which he played Booger!  He's changed a bit over the years, I'm glad to say.  Is much better in this role.
Casting directors need to have a look at the supporting cast of this movie.  I don't know who taught these kids how to act; whomever it was needs to teach most of Hollywood remedial classes - these kid are better and more real onscreen than most of the big, over-exposed "actors" out there today.  Get them out there and let them act more - let's see what they can do!  As for this movie, it's already a favorite in our house.  Five stars isn't enough, really.  As I said, it's in my top ten *ever* list.  No matter how many times I see the movie, I still find myself cheering for Akeelah - it's almost like a sporting event where you are shouting encouragement at the screen and your favorite players - our entire family shouts encouragement to Akeelah every time.  That is something that's always spontaneously done.  Now what other movies out there can inspire THAT sort of reaction?!
Don't think twice, just watch it.