Ok, so he lost the instruction book the first time, then for cheap laughs he lost it again, too bad the aliens won't give him another one! HA! Hello? Did Superman need an instruction manual to fly? No! Because he's a real fantasy Super Hero! Ralph is a school teacher! School teachers aren't supposed to be heroes, especially when it comes to report cards and they flunk you for being tardy more than 12 times in 1 quarter! Gee teacher, sorry to ruin your teaching skills, my face was being bashed in by the lockers at school by some bullies, sorry for the lame excuse and an altered pride, I guess I'll take that pink slip now! Say teacher, I have a question, if you can't fly, what right do you have failing me for something I can't help? Hmmm? Why don't you spend more time teaching rather than being a lousy superhero that can't fly straight??? Just kidding, this series is extremely corny, and I remember enjoying it when I were young. So I bought Season 1 last month, (Alot of episodes, wow!) Looking forward to season 2 next month and what the hay, I think I'll buy the final season, season 3 this august! Season 3 had a harder time than the rest, it was cancelled half way through the season and went into syndication for a few more episodes then they realized, hey, the real networks didn't want this show, let's cancel it! Too bad they don't ask the right people about their opinions, the fans! It's not like NBC, CBS, ABC really cares about what people really think, they cancel whatever, whenever they please! Just ask SCI-FI about Farscape! This is the final season, so buy it August 2005, and for crying out loud, release Lois & Clark on DVD already, would ya??? Here is an episode Guide for Season 1... Hope this review helps... JM

1- Movie: The Greatest American Hero (Pilot)

2- The Hit Car

3- Here's Looking At You, Kid

4- Saturday Night On Sunset BLVD.

5- Reseda Rose

6- My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys

7- Fire Man

8- The Best Desk Scenario

9- The Greatest American Heroine