Wow, it is really hard to describe how utterly pathetic this movie is on every possible level.  I bought this movie due to a couple good reviews and by thinking to myself, how could a movie about a monster man killer in a monster truck possibly be bad?  Well, it can be bad, VERY bad. I even love horror movies and monster trucks, but this title even fails to satisfy these simple genres.  Whoever gave this movie positive ratings on here is either being paid to do so or seriously needs to have their head examined by a professional.

I never do product reviews on here, but I felt I needed to speak up in this case to save people some time and money that could be potentially wasted on this garbage.  Folks, this movie really has nothing to offer what so ever.  It is not a horror movie, an action movie, a comedy, or even generally decent by any respect.  It is basically almost 2 hours of trash talking and over use of camera zooming and color distortion.  The acting is just terrible and is not the slightest bit believable.  The props and so called "effects" look like something a kindergartner put together.  Corpses, gore, and other "what not" look like they are made from play-doh or something.  Even the monster truck fails to be entertaining.  It practically looks like an over-sized garbage can with big tires.  Even the scenes of it driving, car crushing, and jumping are ruined by pathetically jerky camera work and cruddy presentation.  In fact, the camera work is so rough and grainy that it almost makes the monster truck look fake.

This movie is a true waste of time and is literally painful to watch.  I didn't have too high of expectations to begin with for a budget movie like this, but few times have I ever been as disappointed with a movie as I was with this.  In fact, this movie angered me so much I actually threw it away after watching it.  Yes, you read right, I threw it in the garbage where it belongs.  I was at first just going to return it, but then I thought that could mean that some other poor unsuspecting individual might actually try watching this copy and also be sorely disappointed to the point of absolute disgust like I was.  So, I did the world a favor and trashed it as I just couldn't allow this to happen to someone else and wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy.

This movie is now on my personal list of top worst movies ever made.  It comes in 2nd only to the worst movie I have ever seen, which is a movie called "Zombie Strippers".  So, I am taking the liberty of saving you time, money, and pain and will just tell you right now to stay away from this movie by any means necessary.  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!