What a movie. Thank you Terry Gilliam, thank you. Anyone who watches The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and doesn't feel like a kid again must have never been one. And yet this is not  little-kiddy-song-and-dance-Disney-slop. Far, far from it. The story in brief: The 18th century, the age of reason. Wednesday. A small fortified town is under siege by the army of the Grand Turk. Enter an old man, who seems like a lunatic, but claims to be the fictional Baron Munchausen, man, myth, and legend rolled into one. The town leaders roll their eyes; the people turn to him for salvation. And off he goes, to the moon, the volcano of Mt. Etna, the south seas, and all other places the explorers dreaded and feared before finally venturing forth to find what was beyond the edge of the map. He floats away in an air balloon, his goal to find his four extraordinary servants and return to save the town.  So where does one start? The performances and characters? Top notch. Better. John Neville plays the Baron perfectly, the consummate ladies man, the daring fighter, and the greatest storyteller (liar?) anyone could meet. Eric Idle is hilarious as servant #1, Berthold. (Baron: "I'm Baron Munchausen!" Berthold: "Mmmm. That sounds nasty. Is it contagious?") Oliver Reed is a riot as the Roman god Vulcan who's just finished his new nuclear missile prototype and is arguing with his Cycloptic employees over a pay raise. Uma Thurman is stunning as his wife, Venus. And Jonathan Pryce is the perfect villain, cold, logical, and committed  to a world fit for science and progress. Sarah Polly plays the first child to believe the Baron when he tells his story, and she plays both wide-eyed innocence and quite determination perfectly. (Look for Sting in a short role also.) But far and away, Robin Williams, in a cameo as King of the Moon, is the best. He has a heavy Italian accent. He switches back and forth between being in tune with every molecule in the universe and being a foul-mouthed Neanderthal, only less intelligent. (I will not give away why this switching takes place.) Listen carefully to his dialogue. It's great. ("I think, therefore you is.") What else? How bout sets? Made in '89, this was before computers could generate whatever was needed. And so the sets (town under siege, moon, volcano, dead fish, etc.) are all hand created, and they are a joy to look at. They carry the story almost as much as the characters. You want more? Well I said it wasn't a song-and-dance thing; I was slightly in error. The film features a rousing rendition of several parts of "The Torturer's Apprentice" as composed by the Grand Turk, complete with screaming, yelling, and the eunuchs chorus singing "Cut Off In My Prime." (I will not explain what a eunuch is; if you don't know, you don't need to.) Anything else? Well how about trying to classify this movie. Is it fantasy? Yes, though not in the Tolkien sense. Is it comedy? Again, yes; just listen to Robin William, Eric Idle, or Oliver Reed talk. Is it action? Why yes, but again, not in the conventional sense. And is there even drama there to? Yes indeed; if you watch the ending and don't smile and feel at least a little moved, there's something wrong with you. (The ending is one of the greatest moments in the movie, both dramatically and in keeping in Terry Gilliam's tradition of mystifying his audience; "Did that really happen?") The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is not a G-rated kiddy flick, but it makes the audience feel like one, taking us back to when strange things hid in the closets, to when we could take a running jump and fly to the moon, to a world where anything is possible. Undoubtedly one of the best films ever made. And remember, it's a true story. We've got the film to prove it.