Forbidden Planet deserves all of the praise accorded it by my fellow reviewers. Please allow me to submit for your viewing pleasure a brief list of things to watch for during this film.

We are all familiar with producer Irwin Allen's TV series like Lost in Space and Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea.  Many of the cool design features in these TV series were lifted directly from Forbidden Planet.  I don't know if this was Allen's idea or that of his production designers.  Here are a few items to watch for and compare  in his TV shows.

In Forbidden Planet we see the first use of a saucer shaped U.S. space craft, (called  cruiser C-57-D) which inspired the design of the Jupiter 2 in Lost In Space.  The "Astro-gater" on board said saucer, a glass domed device with a moving mini-saucer inside it to simulate the ship's position in space, is copied for the same purpose in the Jupiter 2- it is the cool floor-standing machine in the middle of the main deck!  Notice the landing gear of the saucer incorporates steps inside each of the legs- and so do the Jupiter 2's.  Robby obviously inspired the robot on the same show, not to mention the "freezing tubes"  for crew suspended animation; and the Robinsons even have outdoor forcefield projectors just like the ones in Forbidden Planet!

In the TV series The Time Tunnel, the overall design of the whole complex, with it's view of a canyon-deep, multi-story underground city, is lifted directly from the same construction of the Krell.  The wide-shot used in Tunnel's first episode, of the tunnel itself, is a matte shot using the same artistic style as that in Forbidden Planet.  Look at how the lights are handled as they give us a disappearing perspective.

Forbidden Planet is also famous for it's sound-music track which exclusively used  the Therimin electronic sound instrument, used earlier to great spooky effect in The Day the Earth Stood Still.  But did you know that the device was invented in Communist Russia in the 1920's?  When the inventor, Therimin, would come to the U.S. to demonstrate it in concerts, he conducted espionage against our country on behalf of the NKVD, Stalin's spy agency.  Nice guy, huh?

An almost "sister" film, is Universal's big budget blockbuster This Island Earth, which features several design elements in common with Forbidden Planet:  More plexiglass "freezing tubes", a saucer shaped ship and a tram ride to show off the marvels of the alien civilization.

Irwin Allen had no monopoly on borrowing from Forbidden Planet, either.  Whether by design or accident Star Trek may have done the same thing.  Leslie Nielsen's crew scans the planet Altair 4  for structures and other signs of civilization just as the Enterprise uses it's 'ship's sensors' to do the same thing.  When landing his ship Leslie Nielsen looks into microscope-and-viewer type instruments in much the same way Spock uses his science bay station on the bridge of  the Enterprise.

Have any of you ever noticed  how many of the set pieces and props turned up in other studios production's and even TV shows?  Look for things like the Krell power gauges and the crewmen's uniforms on programs like The Twilight Zone, Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea and many, many other "B" sci-fi pictures made after 1956.  I recall that the flying saucer that lands on Agnes Moorhead's roof in one episode of Twilight Zone is the miniature of the U.S. space cruiser from Forbidden Planet.  She takes an Axe to it !  (Fortunately you can tell in that shot that it is a different model that is shown chopped up- thou shalt not mess up a rented prop!)

I'm sure many of you can find even more things copied from this wonderful, ground-breaking film which have been used in other productions.  Have fun!