...At least in this genre. It is the story of life itself. It is the story of triumph of humanity and a compelling example of basic human spirit in its true nature to be basically noble.

To this is added another of the many possible features of our humanity which exist seemingly almost randomly in humans- namely colorful, lively and spirited disposition, beauty and appreciation of beauty. It shows that the pain and misery of the reality which is human life is eventually worth living. And that is because life is beautiful and the world is a truly beautiful place not least because of this unique animal and its fallible humanity.

And it also shows that it is humanity itself which is solely able to understand this beauty especially/or those in the world of spirit (as Frida Kahlo is a great example). It has been able to catch the very spirit of a human being, a spirit which in its uncorrupted and virtuous form is common to all humanity. Perhaps that&#65533;s the very meaning of it.

Finally, it is a proof of the fact that beauty is as much in the object beheld as it is in the beholder. (I believe 'beauty lies in the eye of the beholder' is a wrong philosophy, or at least half true, and such philosophies often come to be understood as negation of the other possibility as for example the above is a result of such popular ideas as relativism etc).

Frida Kahlo is a person who is broken inside and outside. She wields a broken body and a broken heart but she has an invincible spirit. She is beaten by the stick that is life only for her to love it more each and every time. In the final battle the spirit triumphs to which she testified as such:

In the last painting short while before she died she signed it &#65533;Viva La Vida&#65533;, translated approximately as &#65533;Long live Life&#65533;. In her diary her last words were &#65533;"I hope the exit is joyful; and I hope never to return&#65533;. This was a woman who was almost an atheist (father Jewish, mother devout Christian and husband atheist), a communist who supported Stalin passionately and helped him win some public support in Latin America, was highly impressed with Mao and was a Lesbian.

In short, she lived a highly impassioned, acutely aware and spirited and colorful life. Even though it was highly scandalous and sinful this was a kind of a rebellion of the spirit against the so called morality (morality for the sake of morality) and societal righteousness. Almost saintly yet so blasphemous!

To understand and fully appreciate the movie, the woman and the times; preliminary understanding of art is highly recommended though not necessary- more certainly would help. A sense of history and culture of the time and an interest in Latin history and culture especially would be of great use.

The acting of all cast is breathtaking especially of Salma Hayek, Alfred Molino and even that of small roles like Diego&#65533;s first wife&#65533;s and the Latino singers etc. Frida is primarily a musical with an extraordinary and heart rending music score comprised of much ethnic and folk music and a blend of beautiful modern songs. Finally the highest prize and the crown of the effort I think should go to the director who has done a tremendous and almost perfect job. Notice for example the different camera affects and color schemed employed. For example, Frida&#65533;s silhouette almost always is strikingly colorful in the foreground compared to drab and almost colorless rest of the world. The movie has immense but subtle details.

I would highly recommend reading about Frida Kahlo and going through her art and biogrpahy. Her life is a real life Tolstoy or Jane Austin novel or even Shakespear&#65533;s play or Emily Dickinson&#65533; poetry!

The wonderful tiring puzzle!

The merciless beautiful flower!

Viva La Vida!

Truly the movie itself is a work of great art. Two thumbs up.

P.S. some links and material about her I highly recommend.

check here on amazon, her diary at least and the PBS documentry on her is must. the browser is not allowing me to post the links