A milestone in the history of chop-socky, Enter the Dragon made quite a splash on its release in 1973 as a fast-moving, hard-hitting martial arts thriller.  It is still well-regarded today in some circles (vide infra), although it has a little less zip than today's hyperkinetic, ultra-glossy and meticulously choreographed onscreen thrill rides.  The movie opens with a demonstration fight scene between Bruce Lee and a rather tubby and unmenacing Sammo Hung.  After this prelim it settles into about an hour of mostly action-free exposition and set-up.  One of the most notable features of old 70s movies is their slow pace.  Today somebody says "I'm leaving" and next shot, they're in their car.  Or in LA.  Back then, they'd get off the couch, walk to the door, open it, leave, close it from the outside, close the screen door, go down the walk to their car, fish for their keys, etc, etc.  Of course, back in the day, if you weren't watching a movie you were probably on your front porch whittling, or at a pinochle party, so folks probably figured that pace was plenty fast enough.  Anyway, BL gets filled in by our man on HM's secret service, Braithwaite (Geoffrey Weeks - in his only screen role).  The historically-minded may recall that in the 1970s Hong Kong was actually controlled by Britain, hard as that may be to imagine now.  Characters like Braithwaite are even harder to imagine.  If they weren't preserved on film we'd have trouble believing they ever existed.  The man is actually a gem.  Even the name is excellent.  Braithwaite.  Whatever happened to those old names?  Carruthers.  Protheroe.  Montague-Smythe.  Why don't we see these names in movies anymore?  Anyway, to continue - there's a bad guy, Mr Han, and he's holding a martial arts tournament and BL has to enter and blah blah.  The rubber ducky is that Mr Han's lustful flunkies killed BL's sister, as shown in a flashback sequence most notable for its bad choreography, where the hapless sister has to fall and make several pointless detours for the sole purpose of allowing her bumbling pursuers to catch up.  Trapped at last she chooses death over dishonour at the hands of a fearsome New Zealander (Bob Wall).
  The various martial arts contenders finally assemble, and a white-bread bunch they are, too.  Jim Kelly is actually the worst, that is the nicest, of the lot.  If he put on a blonde wig you'd think he was Doris Day.  They sail off to meet evil Mr Han (Shih Kien), a classic Bond villain - a forty-something turtlenecked playboy with a taste for the finer things in life and his own private island, complete with subterranean power plant, chemical labs and dungeon, as well as a retinue of nubile bodyguards and a totally supercilious attitude which is ultimately stripped aside to reveal a rat-like viciousness.  Also, he's missing a hand, which means he can conveniently slot into his wrist any standard vacuum cleaner attachment, or, should the need arise, stabbing blades.
  After a bit of intrigue and snooping around the island we finally - finally! - get down to brass tacks, with BL decisively kicking incompetent hench-bottom in numbers.  The action sequences are pretty decent.  But what really marks them out is how amazing BL looks without a shirt.  And with little slash marks even better.  That's the payoff for being a martial arts pro.  This is not something that even today's modern iron-pumping method stars can easily imitate.  Six months with a personal trainer are not going to make you look like this.  BL at the tournament and the brawl at the end.  None of it is very violent.  These guys sometimes stomp on each other, but all you actually see is the winner from the midsection up.  You see him jump up and land.  Then for extra brutality he makes a twisting motion, which presumably deforms the broken body of his opponent into an irretrievable wreck.  I jump on you, see?  Then I twist.  You're finished.  The other thing that makes the fight scenes truly memorable are BL's battle squeaks of "Wuuuuuuuuuuu...ahhhh!" which sound kind of like Curly Howard being dubbed into Chinese.  Or Jim Carey imitating Bruce Lee.  This is one part of BL's legacy that does not seem to have survived in current martial arts films.  That and the psychotic grimaces he makes after every blow.  In the end general mayhem erupts and BL sets off after Han, finally cornering him in the hall of mirrors.  Presumably a circus setting for the finale would have been too much of a plot stretch, to say nothing of the extra production costs it would have incurred.
  The other entertaining aspect of the film are the priceless little period details that remind us fondly of a bygone time.  Like the giant golf-cart phone (and the restrained comedy of the golf course shakedown scene is excellent, by the way); or Kelly's massive headphones, not to mention his huge wing collars and his burgundy suit; or Braithwaite's dinner-plate sized glasses.
  Overall, a historic martial arts document and a precious reminder of BL's star quality.  A must for martial arts fans and cultists.  General viewers may find it just a teensy bit slow.  Another fine movie, however, which fans may wish to check out is the entertaining Game of Death, which, incidentally, has the added bonus of accounting for the origin of Uma Thurman's jumpsuit in Quentin Tarantino's recent masterpiece Kill Bill.