I went into this movie with lofty expectations.  I found the first Transformers film to be a fun-spirited and exciting trip down memory lane.  The second movie--despite its obvious flaws--contained some truly awe-inspiring action scenes.  Thankfully the third and supposedly final installment proves to be the best film in the franchise; capturing the positives from both its predecessors and then some.

Dark of the Moon has a more serious tone than the first two movies.  Beginning with the space race between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, the movie sets up an alternate history (akin to X-Men: First Class) that brings a sense of gravity and meaning to the film.  As the movie moves from past to present, the audience is greeted by familiar characters--both human and mechanical.  To avoid any spoilers I will just state that the story is much more comprehensible than the first sequel's and the plot holes (while there may be a few) are nowhere near as noticeable or aggravating.  The stakes are higher this round with the final act playing like an alien invasion movie along the lines of Independence Day or the more recent Battle: L.A., except instead of a wise-cracking Will Smith or a melancholic Aaron Eckhart fighting off the invaders we get a bad-ass Optimus Prime.  The Autobot leader's character development is one of the most enjoyable aspects of the franchise.  The events of Dark of the Moon cause Optimus to move away from the Superman-esque leader of the original film and into the realm of a vengeful anti-hero.  Think the Punisher in the form of a giant robot.  The human cast is serviceable.  Shia LeBeauf's comedic chops are still amusing, while John Malkovich and (especially) Alan Tudyk provide further comic relief.  Megan Fox's much discussed replacement Rosie Huntington-Whiteley is nowhere near as bad as everyone (myself included) expected her to be.  Her true acting abilities are still somewhat a mystery since half the time she is talking the camera is still mysteriously focused on her rear.

As always, the biggest draw in this type of movie is the action.  Dark of the Moon delivers in droves.  Say what you will about director Michael Bay; the man is capable of crafting some of the most exciting and inventive action scenes in modern cinema.  Thankfully, unlike some recent releases (I'm talking to you Green Lantern), this is one movie that leaves some of the best material out of its trailers and TV spots.  A chase between Bumblebee and his cohorts and three very animalistic Decepticons on the interstate towards the end of the first act is a jaw-dropping spectacle.

If this movie is as critically derided as was Revenge of the Fallen, then I am truly convinced critics just love to hate on Michael Bay.  Why they can suspend disbelief for similar fare such as Thor (which was good) or Iron Man 2 (which was a moderately enjoyable mess) while bludgeoning Transformers is lost on me.  Dark of the Moon is an excellent summer blockbuster anchored on several truly exciting action scenes.  Those looking for a sci-fi cinematic pallet cleanser to rid themselves of the disappointing and tepid taste of Green Lantern should check out Transformers: Dark of the Moon without hesitation.