The Caine Mutiny is the story of a Navy sea captain, LtCmdr Quegg, whose wartime stress and neurotic personality eventually cause his executive officer, Lt. Maryk, to  relieve Quegg of command. The command change occurs during a typhoon Quegg is mishandling so badly the Caine is near foundering. Maryk is court martialed for mutiny. In the trial Maryk is caught between the Navy's inclination to defer to Quegg, the captain, and the reality of Quegg's mental unfitness the trail board hasn't witnessed. During the trial things run against Maryk until Quegg's testimony. Maryk's reluctant attorney, Lt. Greenwald, skillfully stresses Quegg causing him to exhibit the same neurotic behavior to his trial judges that nearly sank the Caine. Bogart's performance of Quegg's testimony is brilliant and so convincing it's clear in the moment Quegg will be judged unfit and Maryk acquitted.

A major subplot is that during the whole period of Quegg's command none of the officers went beyond their mandated responsibilities to help Quegg, who in one moment asked for their help. That Quegg did nothing to encourage the extended loyalty and cooperation he asked for doesn't exculpate the officers. The officers blame is especially focused on Lt. Keefer who'd been undermining Quegg all along and encouraging Maryk to relieve him, even while assuring no formal connection existed between himself and Maryk's action. The question lingers whether Quegg could have been saved by the help he requested from his officers. My view is that his problems were too serious and fundamental for his officers to cover. Even if the officers had complied they were unlikely to overcome  Quegg's lurking paranoid distrust.  Further, it's not as though the officers had much surplus of personal competence to offer Quegg. The general expectation is that junior officers need a captain to oversee their performance while they gain competence from serving the captain.

The movie's outcome seems best for all parties. The Navy has culled a dangerous loose cannon from its ranks. Quegg will probably find civilian life happier. The Caine's mutiny will probably stain Maryk's career, regardless of his acquittal, forcing his not distant return to civilian life--certainly a better result than losing the trial and facing brig time, reduction in rank and dishonorable discharge. Lt. Keefer, the movie's lone villian, has his deficient character exposed and is humiliated. Ensign Keith, around whom much of the story unfolds, is the one character who emerges better for the whole experience. He grows in competence while being shorn of his elitist, collegiate attitudes that collided with his naval responsibilities.