Here is one of my favorite classic parts - there's a particular line I love that Juno (Ellen Page) quotes in the film after Mark Loring discovers her coming out of the upstairs bathroom in his house!  Right after she finds the ad in the Pennysaver for Mark and Vanessa Loring, goes to their house and meets them, she says "Being pregnant makes me pee like seabiscuit!"

Vanessa Loring (Jennifer Garner) says the downstairs bathroom is being re-tiled, so she directs her specifically which direction to go in when she gets upstairs.  Juno interrupts and says "Yeah, the room with the toilet!"  When Juno finds the bathroom, she steals a squirt of Vanessa's perfume and puts it on her wrist, right at the edge of the sleeve of her flannel plaid shirt.  She then sees Mark in the hall and asks if Vanessa sent him up to spy on her.  Juno confesses and says "I stole of your wife's perfume; it's Clinique Happy.  Get a wiff of those fumes!"

Mark responds "Is that supposed to make me happy?"

Here is my favorite line Juno responds with.  She says "You should be happy - I'm giving you and Vanessa the gift of Life.  Sweet, screaming, pooping life and you don't even have to be there when it comes out all covered in blood and guts!"  (Obviously she was reminding Mark about the pressures of dealing with a newborn infant, just being blunt.)  It's true, you have to help calm the baby down when he/she screams and cries.  Obviously, the baby will soil hundreds of diapers during his/her first three years and it's not fun at all to have to keep changing them - but someone has to if he's a father and/or she's a mother; biological or adopted!

Afterwards, she goes on to notice "Kimber" in the room behind Mark in the background - his guitar.  She asked him if it's a Les Paul and he talks about how expensive it was to get it fixed when he cracked the shell of it long ago.  They then start having fun getting into a jam session.  Unfortunately, Vanessa comes up and has to interrupt them and remind Juno how their attorney ("Gerta Rauss" played by Eileen Pedde) is downstairs waiting and they have paperwork to finish signing.

Also, I thought it was funny after they arrived how Juno's father Mac MacGuff (J.K. Simmons) saw Vanessa's Pilates machine in the living room.  He asked what it was and asked what you "make" with it.  I just think that's funny how naïve he was to understand it was fitness equipment!

Obviously, Vanessa responded "You don't make anything - it's for exercise!"

Another cute line at the beginning of that scene is when they first arrive and Vanessa has a big smile on her face when she happily welcomes them into her home.  I love when she offers them something to drink and says "I have Pellegrino or Vitamin Water....."

It's cute when Juno says "I'll have a maker's mart....."

Her father Mac had to say "She's kidding - Junebug has a wonderful sense of humor....."