This movie was up and down, to an effect. Having seen both movies, anyone who saw the first one knows that Vin Diesel was what shaped the movie... not Paul Walker. I can't say I have anything against Paul Walker's acting, and much less Tyrese, but I do think that it was the idea of changing both the concept and the crew for this one.

I mean, don't get me wrong. This movie has some parts that the first movie lacked. For example... this movie has the humor that the first movie needed. Hell, the first one probably would have been a -LOT- better if it could have been as funny as this one was. This one had the saturation of humor that everyone probably wanted anyway. Not too little, not too much. The first one had none at all.

On top of that, the plot, the concept, the acting, actors, and the backstory pretty much all change. No one has any idea that O'Conner (Walker) has any history with street racing. In addition we never knew he grew up in Florida or anything like it.As we can see from the first movie he drives like he's a newb when he's at the speedway in Los Angeles, and in the second movie you hear Tyrese discussing about them both being fast drivers in the past, and so on.

I guess the concept lost it's depth when they chose to put Cole Hauser (Paparazzi) in. I dislike his acting ability on the whole. I thought he sucked in Paparazzi and he wasn't much better in this one.Not to mention the change of location, the whole location flip flopped. It went from pacific to Atlantic, and neither of these movies have anything to do with one another. If they -really- planned to do this movie with Paul Walker returning, they should have based it somewhere else out of California, like Malibu or something.If they wanted to keep it Miami-oriented, they should have went for a new lead actor and dropped Walker altogether.

On the whole, the movie was fine but I dislike it for what it's lacking, originality more than anything. I wouldn't recommend buying it right away. Go rent it to see if you like it first. I wager some will like it, and some won't.