"Touching the Void" was also the name of the book that Joe Simpson wrote about the events shown in this astonishing movie.  In 1985 Simon Yates and Joe went on one of those "we're going to do something that has never been done" kind of Mountain Climbs - up a previously unconquered approach up Siula Grande in the Andes.

My wife told me that the film wasn't at all what she was expecting, so it is perhaps worth describing the format of the film.  A small film crew, a couple of actors and Joe and Simon themselves returned to Siula Grande in 2002.  Richard Hawking, who maintained the base camp at the foot of Siula Grande while Joe and Simon went off on their death-defying climb, comes along as well and seems to have one of the most balanced viewpoints among the original three members. The movie intercuts interviews with Joe and Simon and Richard with footage shot for this movie with actors portraying them.  The shots of the Andes and glaciers and icy crevaces are spectacular outdoor photography.  The present day Joe, Simon and Richard tell an absolutely spell-binding story of heroism and perseverence and bravery.

Well before the end of the movie I found myself wondering how in the world Simon ever made it off that mountain, and he had by far the easier time of it.  Joe's survival is one of the most incredible stories of human endurance you'll ever hear.  Seeing that both Joe and Simon made it to the making of this movie removes some of the tension of "oh my goodness! will they make it!" but knowing the ultimate outcome doesn't relieve the edge-of-your-seat-white-knuckle tension of hearing this incredible story.

As a bonus there is additional footage of "what happens next" plus a mini-documentary on the making of the movie. The movie essentially ends with Joe and Simon and Richard reunited at base camp. You KNOW that both climbers need urgent medical attention and Simon will require surgery for his shattered leg - and the "what happens next" fills in some of those blanks.

The behind-the-scenes documentary gives you an idea of why the story depicted in the movie ends where it does.  Simon comes under criticism from the climbing community when Joe and Richard are staunch supporters of his actions on the mountain.  Joe returns to the mountain and memories he has suppressed for 15 years come flooding painfully back and he withdraws from the remainder of the crew.  There is an emotional detachment in both men that seems odd to those of us in the audience - but none of us have descended from the top of Siula Grande. They both experienced horrors that can't really be imagined - even with the assistance of this movie.  They have mentally walled off the events of 1985 into a place they don't allow others to - and it seems obvious they don't want to go there either.

The "special features" complete the story, and don't diminish the magnitude of the bravery, perseverence, etc seen in the movie.  Recommended for those who want to see what humans pushed to the edge can do.  My hat is off to Joe and Simon and Richard as well - it is plain that Richard was crucial to the survival of the other two.