We all have a list of films that when we are flipping though the cable channels and come across we stop and watch, over and over. One of those films that we just love to have on, even in the back ground.

We also all have a list of films that we call our "guilty pleasures" that when pressed we really don't admit watching or liking.

This film is both. So completely, uncompromising and totally biased but never-the-less a total "hoot" to watch. One of the themes of this film is that they "don't make them like that any more" in reference to the main character but they just don't make films like this any more either.

There are so many reasons I shouldn't like this film. I am extraordinarily liberal, female and gay but yet this film so appeals to me it almost embarrassing. This film was NOT made for me but honest to goodness, what a great film.

I saw this film originally in the cinema when it came out and its been one of my guilty pleasures ever since. It's so full of machismo and testosterone but yet has more truth in it than many academic documentaries that I have seen.

I could go over the plot here but read other people's review as they do it more justice than I can, but one thing I love about this film is how the main character (Gunny Highway) actually gets to come home, even if its not all what he expected. The tender way it shows a man who gave his whole life to protecting ours so unselfishly and admirably is wonderful. At one point he states "I am coming to the end of it, I just want it to be as good as it was when I started". At that point we all want him to get that moment of happiness even if its fleeting. He deserves it but more so we owe it to him.

I find it fitting that I am writing this review in the American Memorial Day when people should be thanking their bloody stars for men like Gunny Highway. They are not 0-1-1. In my mind they are all winners. I sleep better at night knowing they are out there and I thank the heavens that they have been there for us over and over. We need a Gunny Highway now more than ever. Semper Fi!