I bought a huge stack of DVD's at a reduced price and nearly bypassed this movie, thinking it was just another boring remake of a classic... like most of the other remakes. I was most definitely wrong and surprised at how wonderful this movie was.

This has spoilers...(for those of you who are thin skinned about reading reviews and then complain because you read reviews which included the storyline.)

I loaded up a 5 disc DVD player and put this one in last because I didn't expect much out of it... and to my surprise, it turned out to be the best movie in the stack. One of the most enjoyable movies I have seen in a while. I bought the normal DVD version of Journey to the Center of the Earth with Brendan Fraser. Nothing fancy. This was not a 3D version.

There really was not a boring moment in the entire movie. It was fun, interesting, well written, well acted, well directed and had wonderful visuals and special effects. It was all unique and refreshing. I was glad they did not sour the movie with a bunch of unnecessary and unbelievable subterranean tribes or inhabitants like we see in other movies like this.

Definitely a great family movie. No violence... other than that of the creatures they encounter... but that was also a nice feature. No blood, gore or killing of any characters in the entire movie. I really get tired of that in other movies. It is amazing how enjoyable a movie can be without those things.

The story was fast paced, kept our interest and exciting to watch. The movie didn't dawdle too long in any one scene. The scenes were fresh, exciting and innovative and not repetitive of any previous movie versions. Anyone who has read my previous reviews knows I do not give out a review like this which is all positive. I usually have complaints even on my most favorite movies... but no negatives on this one on any aspect of it.

For those of you who care about these things... the dialogue and gadgets were technically up to date with the times. So you won't have the teens complaining about it being old fashioned. But at the same time, it met all of the needs of the older audiences as well. It was a quality movie.

The photography & sets were beautiful and unique. The action and story were fresh. The relationships between the three characters were well written and the actors were all wonderful in their roles. The nephew's role was scripted just right... and you don't often see that. Most movies have the kid too bratty. But they did a great job with this character of Sean as did the actor (Josh) who played him. His relationship with his uncle and his interactions were well written and acted and quite believable.

The luminescent birds were a nice touch. I got a kick out of the ending with the bird. That was great. It is something I would have done in his place... so that was well received by the audience. The CGI barracudas and sea creatures were superb and very realistic. I liked the interaction they had with those nasty looking fish with the really hideous teeth. I remember seeing some fossils with similar teeth... so they were more realistic than most people might think since there isn't anything quite like that today.

The magnetic rocks were a fun scene and quite unique. Bravo on the effects of the rock rotating. That was very realistic and would have been overlooked by most directors and special effects experts.

But the best CGI scene was the one with the giant Venus flytraps. That was very realistic... and having him wrestle with them was well done.

I will say that the mining cart scene was a little over the top. It was more like a Disneyland roller coaster ride. Thrilling effects which made it appear to be the ultimate roller coaster ride... but just a little beyond credibility when it jumped the chasm and all three separated cars landed perfectly on the tracks... Then a few minutes later did an impossible 3 direction split of 3 cars onto 3 tracks simultaneously which could not occur without rail switching, and even then, only one at a time per switch. However, other than taking a bit too much creative license... it was a thrilling scene with a lot of excitement. Same comments on the falling scene. A bit much on the extended falling like dropping out of the sky without a parachute and remaining in the fall for a ridiculous time period (similar to spy kids 3)... but they handled the end of the fall fairly well at the end.

We especially thank the writer & director... for once, it was refreshing to see a character bring back the fringe benefits with them at the end of the movie. We really get tired of these movies where they find things like that and then lose them in the end. Finally! Someone got smart and actually brought back the goods and benefited from them. Thank you for not leaving the audience frustrated with the characters stupidity like we see in all the other movies.

Very nice ending! The movie was a delight to watch from beginning to end.

You'd have to be a real curmudgeon not to like it. I recommend it for everyone... all ages... except curmudgeons who are never satisfied with anything. Leave them at home or wait until they are gone so they don't ruin the enjoyment of the movie for you.