Being an English lit major, I don't know how I missed this movie in the theaters, but thankfully just saw the DVD -- again, and again, and again. I rarely recommend a film to my parents in no uncertain terms, but this DVD got my recommendation to them twice in the same day. This story is amazing, and the film adaptation superb.
I won't bother going into the detail on the plot, since others have already done a remarkable job of that. I have an antique version of this book, which is so lengthy, it spills into a second volume.....800 pages worth! This is one long book. Anytime you adapt a novel for film, a different medium, a more concise version for the film is needed, to prevent filmgoers from a 10-hour running time. The triumph of this film is that the spirit of the book and the author Dickens are kept even while some scenes and characters must be edited out of the film. A bit of narrative at the beginning and end of the film are beautifully done and tie it up with a figurative ribbon.
The central theme in the film, while by no means the only one, is the friendship between Nicholas and Smike. How a character who has known true familial love is able to transmit that love to one who has only known despair, is probably the most heartwarming aspect of this film.  
The entire film is extremely well cast. I must correct what I believe is an unfortunate slight some reviewers have given to Charlie Hunnam and Anne Hathaway. I don't know what these reviewers were looking for in these two roles. I think Charlie has given an admirable and powerful performance in the lead role: a fatherless, 19-year old who grows up to be a man. He learns to step up for himself, defend the defenseless Smike and his sister's honor, and cause Ralph Nickleby to accept responsibility for his actions. Anne Hathaway is radiant and expressive in her role, which to be honest, does not get much ink in Dickens' novel.  
There are so many excellent individual contributions in this film: cinematography, set design (notice how the decisions regarding color scheme help develop the tone), costumes, music by Rachel Portman. The "making of" feature and the running commentary by Douglas McGrath on the DVD give some very valuable insight into the story, character development, and the editorial/directorial decisions he made on the film. I also loved the on-film commentary by Nathan Lane's character at the movie's conclusion, which contains some terse nuggets about life.
A superb film! I rarely purchase DVDs, however this is one I will watch for years to come.