The book The Perfect Storm was a number one New York Times best seller, and had nothing but astounding reviews.  The movie, was a major motion picture with equally prodigious reviews. "This," I thought "would be a good story for my english project." So I read the book; as I did, I kept waiting for it to get better, or to be "blown away" as entertainment magazine said. Although the end of the book got better, my opinion is that it did not live up to it's expectations. Disappointingly, I do not agree with many critics. Throughout  reading the book, I was wondering how it is possible to convert so many facts, details, and technical terms into a visual presentation. They would have to change so much of the story to make a movie, I thought. It turned out.  I thought right. The movie turned out to be everything I was hoping for, and more. When comparing the movie to the book,  I concluded that the movie was far superior.
 The book was a completely factual book under a mass of technical detail. Sebastian Junger, the author, stuck strictly to the facts.  The story explained where the Andria Gail was on the radar system, radio conversations, and real conversations at Glucester. He interviewed other people who had been through  similar situations, so we would get an idea of the the six- man crew on the Andria Gail  went through and felt. For instance, the book explained what drowning felt like, and the last thoughts of people who thought they were about to die. There is an over obsessive amount of detail. Like how hurricanes are formed. Or the technicalities of sword fishing and how it is done. Never does the book explain what is going on to the people on the Andria Gail .  It only states where the boat probably is, and how big the waves are that they experienced. Junger also presumes what Billy Tyne (George Cloony) is thinking. As you might perceive from this, it was uninteresting and arid to  read a book with such a lack of  suspense. This scarcity  drew me away from enjoying the book.
 In the movie, the beginning was a lot alike, just much more concise. Both talked about the crows nest (the local bar) and  emphasized Bobby (Mark Wahlberg), and his relationship with Chris Cotter (Diane Lane). But the book talked more about the history of Glucester, and stories from the Crows Nest, which Although the beginnings of both were much the same, the book made a bigger deal out of what was happening at Glucester. Fortunately, the movie condensed this section of the Perfect Storm.  Once the  Andria Gail  leaves the harbor, the stories totally changed. The movie stays with the crew of the boat, fictionalizing the events on the boat. Since it is a movie, there has to be action throughout the middle of the plot, not just at the end. To accomplish this, there were conflicts made up that were happening on; or to the ship.  For instance, Murph and Sully got into a fight, becoming enemies. Later on, Murph got dragged into the ocean by a fishing hook, and Sully went down to save him. Or when Billy Tyne had to de-tangle the anchor that got tangled around the mast of the boat. These scenarios were another factor making the movie yet admirable. Some of the technical lines in the book told by the author were portrayed in the film as a character in the story speaking.  For instance, when Sebastian Junger explained how three major storms come together to create a once- in- a- lifetime catastrophe, The Perfect Storm is generated.  These lines, in the film were stated by an actor who played a Glucester weatherman. The movie also has great cinematography, with phenomenal shots of the ocean, and on-deck scenes; much of which could not be portrayed in words. The fantastic imagery adds much to the film
 I think the movie did an okay job at portraying the characters in the
movie as actors (the casting). I was imagining somebody pretty close to George Cloony as Billy Tyne. The movie did a good job at matching the description of the book. But when I imagined Bobby Shatford, I imagined somebody totally different. Mark Wahlberg did not at all match the description in the book. I am not a big fan of Wahlberg in this movie. He was part of a former boy - band, and has no acting skills whatsoever.  The only reason I can see why the casting director put him as the part was to get teenage girls to see the movie. This was a great disappointment to me. The casting of Chris Cotter, was done well, as well as the four other  crew members: Pierre (Allen Payne), Sully (William Fichner), Murph (John C. Rielly) and Moran (John Hawkes).
 Many of the things that were changed in the story of the movie from the story of the book, clearly had a very good reason to be. The film was almost  obligated to  stay with the crew on the boat, and show what is happening; the book explained things like how storms were formed. It would be impossible to create a visual presentation that is precisely imitating the book, unless there was a narrator for the movie. This would be a very boring movie, making very little profit.  On the other hand, if the book fictionalized the whole story, then it would be unclear to the readers as to which part of the book is actually true. Junger wanted to truthfully tell the story of the Andria Gail, and the monster that it sailed into. The movie turned out to be much more interesting, and exciting.