Psycho is known as Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece - and for good reason.  Not only did it define him as one of Hollywood's greatest directors, but it set new precedent for filmmaking.  From the storyline to the camera angles to the symbolism - all of these factors contribute to the reason why Psycho is the finest of horror films.

The story starts off with Marion Crane - a woman who unexpectedly steals an absorbent amount of money out of a spurt of greed.  In her fleeing, she gets caught in a terrible storm and stops at a run-down lodging called "The Bates Motel."  Its owner, Norman Bates, is a young, mysterious man who invites her to stay there and even cooks her dinner.  After she settles into the room next to the office, Bates peers through a hole in the wall and watches her undress to take a shower.  While taking a shower, an old woman (presumed Mrs. Bates, Norman Bates' mother) barges into the bathroom and stabs Marion to death.  Norman finds out soon after and covers up the murder by wrapping the girl in the shower curtain, placing her and all of her belongings into the trunk of her car, and driving it into a swampy lake.  Police and loved ones become curious after a bit of time passes and soon investigate the situation; Norman is found responsible and held in an insane asylum.  The end brings us to the psychological realization that Norman Bates is in fact insane and has developed multiple personality disorder; and the worst part is that his alternate personality is that of his dead mother whose corpse he has stolen from the grave and attempted to keep from decay.

Camera angles are what make this film so decadent.  Hitchcock tilts points of view to enhance strange or distorted situations - sometimes even to trick viewers.  There is nothing that compares, also, to a black and white thriller.  It forces directors to look outside of the box of color television, and encourages use of more demonstrative techniques, such as playing with shadows, lighting, and other enhancers.

The acting is outstanding.  Each actor is incredibly believable, but still retains that classy, entertaining charm that is so characteristic of the time period.