This DVD is awful, just awful, it does'nt even seem like U2 (anyone seen Popmart? Zoo TV?)- probably not because U2 being the buisness men that they are, have not bothered to release them on DVD yet, and have "wisely" chosen to heavily promote and market their watered down heavily overhyped tours "Elevation" and "Vertigo" accompanied by their last two dogs of an album, that were also heavily marketed, they needed to be cause they were actually crap, but it pleased the boring fans of well, the charts.

This the boston show of the Elevation tour and boy is it bad, everything is wrong with this DVD, there are so many things. I'll have to list them.

1. The bonus disc, is compete rip of and a waste of time, you get two 30 second preveiws of the VHS of Zoo TV and Popmart, which you can't actually buy on DVD, and - "The Credits" are listed as a special feature - hahahaha!!

2.The performance of the band is'nt even good, its bad, boring, Bono can't sing, the whole gig is just a stage show planned

eg. Desire, all the band come down to the front of the ramp and play just like at Slane Castle.

Bono seems to come across as a rock star rather than a performer, the way he sings to the crowd up close and in the face during THE FLY is laughable.

3. The version of Stay acoustic is dissapointing.

4. Bono needs to lose weight and stop wearing those bloody shades!!

5. Right the EDITING of the actual performance, its ridiculous, "cut jump swish wham bam cut swish, half a guitar, a bit of Larrys cymbal and Adam Claytons trousers, Bono close up swish!!"

the funny thing is in the making of this DVD, the silly director comes across as trying to make it look like your actually there, well thats just stupid impossible rubbish, you'll never feel like your their when your watching a f%%^^g tele, the best thing you can do is make clear cut edits,

 deliver nice pictures, capture the moment, emotions etc. Not freakin make you want to turn of the TV. I was so disgusted with this I was compelled to throw it out of the window.

Just watch Zoo TV, Popmart or Rattle and Hum, the filming and editing for that is superb, better than this sell out junk.

If their is any doubt U2 is over, then this will confirm it. End of story.