I got this movie when i was 12 years old.. i am now 19 and i still feel the impact of this movie in my life. I am studying Biblical studies and theatre in college right now, and I believe this is by far the best portrayal of Christ in the New Testament. I still watch parts of these movies from time to time and it never fails to reignite a child-like love and adoration for the Lord.

I feel i have a very high and very conservative view of God and His holiness, and this portrayal is not at all blasphemous in my opinion and knowledge of Scripture. It is real and applicable to our life today, unlike the Gospel of John film which i thought had a very strong medieval and stoic feel to it. As mentioned before, it shows a range of very real and very righteous emotions in the portrayal of Jesus, from grace to the forgotten and repentant, and holy anger toward the hypocritical religious leaders.

I will admit this movie is radical in comparison to others, but i feel that is it's strongest point. In order to feel it's full effect, you must lay down your pre-concieved notions and see it with a child-like faith, but then again, isn't that what faith in the Christ of the Bible is all about?

I think it's a frightening thing when we believe so strongly in the portrait we have painted of Christ for ourselves, that we dismiss anything to the contrary, even IF IT IS in line with what we find in Scripture, just because it is not comfortable to us. Let's remember that He came as fully God and fully man, and while preaching truth, and living a perfect and sinless life, He also loved on sinners, many of whom would not recieve a second glance from many churches today.

If for no other reason, i love this film because it is obvious that Jesus is portrayed by a man who knows the Character He is portraying personally. What better way to take on the likeness of the character you must portray, than to know them personally, know their heart, and even be given the "same mind." (1 Corinthians 2:15-17) I think this is a trait that lacks severely in most "Jesus actors."

I recommend the movie, and also the books written by Bruce Marchiano, the actor who portrayed Jesus, even perhaps before seeing the film, as it gives even more depth to what you see there. Also the music from the film is beautiful.

It should be obvious that i believe strongly in this film if even after 7 years of recieving it, i still feel the desire to right a positive review for it... does that tell you anything? :)