Season six of MASH showed that the introduction of Charles Emerson Winchester III would mean some big changes. The aristocratic major was more difficult to treat in the same way as the childish Frank Burns. Larry Linville does not get the credit he deserves for taking that character as far as he got as a static member of a rapidly evolving cast.

In season seven we now see the final dissolution of the combative rivalry between Margaret Houlihan and Hawkeye Pierce. Margaret's divorce made her into a much more vulnerable character than in the beginning. The nickname "Hot Lips" is all but dropped and she is just simple Mararet and we see a serious father-daughter relationship develop between Potter and Margaret that had been coming on actually since the Season Four episode "Deluge"(One of my personal favorites).

Season Seven marks the first year that the "dramedy" places a heavier emphasis on the drama of the characters. This is evident in such episodes as "The Price" when Potter gives up his horse to an old Korean cavalry officer. but gets Sophie back when the man dies. There are still some strong comedic performances in episodes such as "A Night At Rosie's" when Hunnicutt, Hawkeye, and an AWOL sergeant named Skully declare Rosie's Bar an independant nation. Skully would return in Season Eight twice in pivotal episodes of the season. There are also some weak comedic performances in episodes such as "None Like It Hot" which I think is the worst episode since the First Season when the network forced the cast to make a few very cheesy episodes like "Major Fred C. Dobbs". The jokes in season seven are not as well timed  and the punchlines get cornier, but the essence of MASH would remain strong through the end, and the show's more sentimental seasons eight, nine, ten are as strong as any in the series though in different ways.

I thought this to be the most disappointing season of MASH save for some strong performances by Charles in episodes like Major Ego and the finale "The Party" was also acted very well by all the actors. Charles and Hawkeye and the whole gang would be back for the great Season Eight when most everything went right for them. Season Seven was a slight letdown by MASH standards but it is still a very strong set and a must-have.