Watching this DVD of "Sweeney Todd In Concert" is an overwhelming experience.
Of all the Stephen Sondheim musicals, this is my No. 2 favorite; the No. 1 is "Passion". While the two musicals tell totally different stories, they both are enriched with the same musical elements of Stephen Sondheim's music, which is passion and authenticity. "Sweeney Todd" is a dark and haunted story, it deals with demon and evil side of human being, and at the same time it entertains, needless to say that all of these are delivered so well by the music scores, as well as the lyrics - another part of the Sondheim's talent, for which the remarkableness hasn't been reached by any other musical writers, yet.
This is the only version of "Sweeney Todd" so far I've watched or listened. While I don't have any reference to compare with in terms of cast performance, I am glad that I can truly enjoy this cast and appreciate every effort of every cast member that has turned this operatic musical into a musical sensation. George Hearn, besides an excellent vocal job, fleshes out the complicities of the demon barber Sweeney Todd quite vividly by adding traces of human emotions into the character. Patti LuPone, in her unique and bit-of-rough voice, has done a very good job in depicting Mrs. Lovett. Her performance is outstanding and very entertaining. Neil Patrick Harris is simply wonderful. He is an actor whom you'd feel very comfortable to watch. Everything from him seems so natural. Of all the roles, one character gives me the real chill and that is Judge Turpine, played by Timothy Nolen. In his extraordinary low baritone, crooning or shouting, Nolen vests this twisted character with an immense commanding power, something intangible but truly scary. Lisa Vroman sings beautifully as Johanna, the power of her voice could amaze you when she bursts out in full voice. Comparing to the depth of other characters, Anthony is relatively shallow, and it's a pity that its performer David Gaines doesn't help much in strengthening the role, but he does give a great rendition of "Johanna".  
One last comment I'd like to say is the staging of this show. With a full orchestra on the stage and cast members around and among, it brilliantly turns the musical into a concert without losing much of the theatrics and dynamics. The set is simple, the color is mainly black, the prop is almost non-existent, and yet, what we've sensed is the luster like a black marble and the intensity that feels like one, too.