I've seen this movie four times in two weeks. The last time I loved a movie enough to watch it that many times was in 1987, at the age of 13.  I'm 37 now, and much more critical about quality in movies than I was then, and I tell you now that Megamind is a brilliant film.

They Got It Right.  This movie incorporates the best elements that we've all seen before, remarkably few flaws, and turns out a hilarious, intelligent movie with a lot of heart. And kid-safe, too, although adults will get a lot more of the in-jokes.

First, the humor.  This movie is just plain fun to watch!  Just the right balance between silly-slapstick and witty irony, lots of hilarious one-liners, references to other sci-fi films and comics, and, rare for an animated film, tiny subtle shifts in body language that betray what a character is thinking without any words necessary.

Next, the characters.  All five of the main characters have a surprising amount of depth, making it easy to empathize with them, in part due to the gorgeous animation and incredibly realistic facial expressions.  Megamind in particular has very expressive eyebrows, and you can literally see wrinkles appear in his forehead when he's upset, or smile lines in his cheeks when he gives that irrepressibly gleeful grin of his...you can't help but love him.

The Story:  Megamind begins the movie as a mischievous, fun-loving, blue-skinned alien super-genius with a crush on pixie-haired reporter Roxanne Ritchi, (whose cameraman, Hal, also has his sights set on her) and a love of playing "the game" with the other (human-looking) resident alien, Metroman.  Metroman is not the typical Superman clone he appears to be at the beginning, either.

Having been raised in the city prison, Megamind is inexperienced, almost innocent, about many things in the outside world, which is one more reminder for us of his outsider status despite his being culturally of Earth. His only companion is his best friend Minion, a loyal fish sent with him to Earth who wears a robot gorilla suit.

The Twist:  When Megamind unexpectedly wins the "game", he is at a loss.  A surprise meeting with Roxanne while in disguise as a handsome museum curator abruptly changes the course of his life (and this movie!) Megamind experiences a phenomenal amount of character growth, a coming-of-age that is rife with hilarious zaniness and agonizing drama with a show-stopper finale ends on an incredibly satisfying note.

There are several extras you'll want to check out; all the standard stuff plus a sweet-sad deleted scene, an animated comic book that lets you see some of the past battles between Megamind and Metroman, and a 16-minute short adventure (Button of Doom, either included on the Blu-ray or make sure to get the DVD set that has it!), set after the movie that has Megamind hilariously battling one of his own inventions!

Gorgeous animation: The sheer amount of rich detail in this film make it worth watching many times. I highly recommend the Blu-ray, though, I watched a dvd version and you couldn't make out details like young Megamind's sheepish, sad-yet-hopeful smile in the class picture.  And unlike several other reviewers, I didn't notice any aliasing at all, and I looked for it.

All the characters have such tender attention to detail, including fingerprints, realistic freckles, and eyes that reflect different colors from the sources of light around them.  I'm not a fan of weapon design, but Megamind's De-gun (a ray gun that has multiple functions, including dehydrating animate objects instantly so they shrink into small cubes) has what looks like decorative bronze insets in graceful curves, truly lovely to behold.  The glass catwalks in the museum are beautiful, too.

Who won't care for Megamind?  In middle of the film is light on action and things blowing up, as Megamind learns to care for Roxanne while developing a plan centered around Hal, which could bore some die-hard action fans or young children.

I also appreciate the lessons taught: The choices you make control your destiny, not fate.  Intelligence will win out over brawn.  Prejudice is wrong and unfair.  Forgiveness.  Redemption.  When life gives you lemons, make lemonade...or giant robots!