"Do you have an imagination?"

"Yes. You must have an imagination if you work with children."

Thus begins Uncle's interview with Miss Giddens who later serves as Miles' and Flora's new Governess. And it's her beloved imagination which turns against her. Drives a wedge between herself and everyone else at Uncle's estate.

There are so many reviews posted on this site concerning The Innocents, it seems a bit pointless to rehash the plot. You already know it's a spook story set in a large English countryside mansion. That's all you need to know.

But, I must say - there's a duplicity of logic in this movie, as in all great supernatural stories. There's "reality" and then there's Miss Giddens' "imagination." Believe whichever you like. They're in perfect synchronicity with each other.

But, dare not believe both at the same time. If you try, this movie will unnerve you, and make you slightly mad. Slightly schizophrenic. There are parallel worlds here - Giddens is unable to discern between the two. Like going cross-eyed in the mind. Are the dead among us? Is it all a trick set up by devious children? Or is it nothing at all?

One could qualify The Innocents as the best ghost story ever filmed. Frankly, I don't like superlatives - and I haven't seen every movie ever made to be able to argue that point. But this IS a beautiful film, and psychologically skewering, the like of which I've never seen. "Turn Of The Screw" is an apt title. Each inexplicable incident tightens that vice of fear - click - click - one quarter turn.

Truman Capote co-authored the script - if that means anything to you "In Cold Blood"/"Breakfast At Tiffany's" fans.

Re the VHS version: There's an eerie effect in the film print - and I doubt it was intentional and probably just due to age - but occasionally some of the shadows get washed out in a wavering light. It's very slight - and I'm sure with new digital restoration technology they could fix that, but it adds an extra aura to this film.

This movie is over 40 years old, and film images themselves are ghosts, when you think on it, windows into the past - or are they just shadows and light playing tricks on the mind.