How people can just arbitrarily say what constitutes good acting and bad acting?  I've heard a great deal of people say this and that about Carey Elwes' performance in this film.  Most people say he overdid it.  Well sorry to say this, but I highly doubt any of them have ever seen how someone would behave in that sort of situation.  Overdoing it would be Jack Nicholson (Oscar winner)in the Shining.  He'll even admit it.  I think these days people are looking for reasons to hate any movie that is marginaly original.  Or even worse...when they see one, they get confused, then a little frightened and lash out at it.  "That movie outsmarted me! How dare it!?"  In this..the golden age of REMAKES, Saw was a brilliant whiff of originality.  Sure, comparisons could be drawn to a bunch of other films...but at least it's its own movie.  No remake of the 1976 "classic" here.
No fetch and borrow from some piece of Japanese crap either.  Think about that when you go see The Ring2.

(edit and rebuttal)

Ok, I can see that some of the other reviewers failed to understand what I meant when I said that they don't know how someone would act in the situation Cary Elwes' character was in.

While I admit I've never seen anyone who's been locked in a subterrainian bathroom and held hostage while his family is being threatened....I do know how people act in situations where their families are threatened and they are powerless to do anything about it.  I work in a hospital where people who've been in fairly bad trauma situations come.  A recent example would be a pretty bad shooting spree in a church group meeting.

Without going into details too much, the son/brother of a group of victims arrived at the hospital a while after the attack.  He lost his father and younger brother.  His mother was still in very critical condition.  While this isn't the same thing that happened to Cary in Saw, his reaction and behavior was almost the exact same thing.  Held back tears, and the look of someone who could vomit at any second.  I hate to get all depressing, but this is the best way I can think of to illustrate my point.  I'll agree that the other actors in the film may have given a sub standard performance, but Elwes did a fantastic job of portraying a helpless man whose family was in mortal danger.

So while I've never been chased by robots with drills for gentials either, I do know the difference between ridiculus acting and a performance that is either misunderstood, or too real to be believed because its too unsettling.  I think because the scenario and performance of the others in this film requires a certain suspension of disbelief, his all too realistic portrayal may have seemed out of place.