Many film critics were flummoxed when AN AMERICAN IN PARIS walked away with Best Picture honours in 1951. The more erudite types had bet their money on "A Streetcar Named Desire", or "A Place in the Sun", both superior films from a dramatic point of view.
Perhaps these critics were slightly out of tune with their times. After all, this was 1951 and white vans mounted with loudspeakers were plying the streets and avenues of American cities and towns denouncing hapless burghers suspected of harbouring communist symphaties. With the Cold War in full gear, it was considered unpatriotic in some quarters to produce films in any way critical of the American way of life. Hollywood was happy to do its bit, turning out movies like "I Was A Communist For the FBI" (excellent comedy, I might say, and definitely required viewing).
AN AMERICAN IN PARIS certainly did not offend any of our patriotic sensibilities. Our hero, Jerry Mulligan, after helping liberate Europe, has stayed on in Paris and is behaving like an all around good will ambassador, distributing chewing gum to Parisian urchins and just generally spreading good cheer in his down-at-the-heels neighbourhood
This movie actually has a lot going for it. Filmed to please the senses, the spectacular 20 minute ballet is often credited with catapulting it into the Oscar Zone. At a time when the great majority of movies were still made in black and white, there might be something in this. But the Gershwin score might have been a bigger factor. Not only was the music great, but it was by an American composer! A terrific antidote to the spectre of shifty eyed subversive dilettantes (e.g. - New York film critics) listening to their Shostakovich in their gloomy lairs.
Leslie Caron, in her film debute, created a sensation as she embodied every virtue of the imaginary "petite belle". Gene Kelly; as American as a Congressional Hearing. There might have been questions about his acting abilities (imagine a dancing Adam Sandler) but he emitted sufficient gung-ho spirit to make even an Iron Curtain ruffle.
Not enough can be said about Director Vincente Minnelli. Here is a fellow who was probably born 50 years too late. His best work ("Meet Me In St. Louis", "The Pirate", "Gigi", "Lust For Life", etc) are all set in a more genteel and aestheticaly pleasing past. If Minnelli were still with us today he would certainly NOT be directing any "Star War" sequels.
But in AN AMERICAN IN PARIS he really outdoes himself in pulling the wool over our eyes. His imaginary Paris in no way resembles the noisy, vibrant and modern Paris of the post-war era. Minnelli's Paris might have been the one that Maurice Utrillo painted 60 years earlier. If a circa-1951 Parisian artist had been churning out canvasses in the style of our Jerry Mulligan he would no doubt have been spirited away by the gendarmes in a straitjacket.
Still, all in all, a gorgeous film, but one that should be taken with a grain of salt.