I am not sure what Catch and Release is trying to be - A chick flick, a romantic comedy, romance or a drama.  I have to say that it doesn't actually do any of those categories justice at all.

What it is about:  Gray (Jennifer Garner) has just lost her fianc&eacute; to some sort of accident days before their wedding.  She has no money so she moves in with her fianc&eacute;s 2 best friends Sam (Kevin smith) and Dennis (Sam Jaeger).  One of her fianc&eacute;s childhood friends from LA Fritz (Timothy Olyphant) arrives for the funeral and also moves in staying for some indefinite amount of time.  Days following the funeral Gray learns that her fianc&eacute; has a child and that he had been cheating on her.  This leads Gray into a new romance with Fritz.

What is good about it:

I have to admit that there were a number of times I was about to cry during this movie.  When Gray learns about her fianc&eacute;s betrayal, when she learns about the depth of his betrayal, and when her almost mother-in-law makes some incredibly tacky moves --- I have to say Jennifer Garner does the wounded look quiet well.  The pain she feels is real and I think it translates well to the audience.

Kevin Smith was also very funny in the film.  I think he acted like himself but it was still a good performance.  His screen time was basically the comic relief of the film.

Julliete Lewis also does a superb job as the quirky massage therapist Chinese method studying grass eating Californian.

What is bad about it:

It just didn't feel right.  The way Gray moves on to Fritz and so soon...I just wasn't feeling it.  I thought they were good together and I can see how she would be attracted to him but right away?  It doesn't make sense.  Also there was a lot of cavalier treatment about grief and depression which was blown off by the characters in this movie.  And where are Gray's friends?  Are her only friends her fianc&eacute;s friends?  There was just a lot of holes in the movie that distracted me from enjoying the film.

Conclusion:

If you are looking for a romantic comedy this really isn't the movie for you -- it is more sad then funny. Despite the fact that this movie doesn't fit any category the acting is great and the story is compelling.  However the holes in the movie are very distracting and take away from the film.  If you can just let it go you will enjoy the movie a lot.  If you don't think you can let that go you might want to wait for the DVD before seeing this movie.