I remember seeing Rocky V as an 8 year old kid, and was disapointed with it.  Until a few months ago when I viewed it again, I felt this way until wathcing it late at night, and concentrated on Rocky V as a totally seperate movie from the previous four.  When doing it this way, Rocky V is not a half bad film.  It certainly doesn't have that feel good spirit the other four had.  There isn't much to be happy about, and we don't get to see Rockky have a motivational training sequence.  There also is no Apollo Creed which instnatly kills off the pace of this film.  However, Rocky V I feel ranks right up with the first one when it comes to acting.
  It isn't so much Stallone who improves, but somehow, he convinces you his brain is damaged.  But it's the new comers to this movie which actually make it such a well acted movie.  Richard Gant plays the scum bag Don King impersonator George Washington Duke and he does the role well.  Give him Don King's hair, and you have a Don King.  Ex Pro Boxer Tommy Morrison acts pretty darn well for his one and only movie.  He carried himself like a seasoned veteran in this film, but the one who really steals the show is Stallone's son Sage.  The fact that Rocky's son ages from 5-14 in about 2 years worth of time between Rocky 3 and 5, Sage Stallone like Morrison carried himself like he had done many movies.  You really see the transition from a snobby yet kindhearted richkid, to intimidated to his new environment, to being a punk in the poorhouse, to a kid learning to adjust in the end.  He plays it perfectly.  Why Sage's career didnt take off I don't know.  His only other role was a supporting role in another Stallone movie "Daylight".  I hear it's his choice, but I'm not sure.
  In the end, is this the worst of the 5 Rocky's?  I feel the 2nd was.  Rocky 4 and 3 had a lot more action than this one, but if you are looking to actually watch a movie where good acting dominated it, and not the action, watch Rocky 1, and 5.
  As a little side note, if nothing else, watch this movie for the credits. Elton John performs what I feel to be his best song.  "The Measure of a Man"  That song is just incredible, and almost brings a tear to my eye when I see it with the little Rocky montage they have for the credits.  All in all a very good movie