I was surprised when "Tootsie" made #2 on the American Film Institute's poll of the top 100 comedies of all-time; pretty good for a film that 'doesn't get noticed anymore.' I'm not sure if I'd rank it that high, but I do agree, it's a great, almost perfect comedy. There's a lot of movies built around a similar premise of a man trying to impersonate a female, but what makes "Tootsie" stand out is how it never gets too low-brow and how it explores every worthy nuance of that premise.

It's pretty amazing how well this film works as both popcorn entertainment and as a feminist classic. Lots of pictures have tried to be both, like "What Women Want," but fail miserably because they're either not funny/entertaining at all or really shallow or even dumb. The comedy never lets up in "Tootsie," but Michael's (Dustin Hoffman's character) growing sympathy and understanding of what it's like to be a woman is always there. I was pretty surprised at how much this picture meant to Hoffman when he interviewed for it on CBS. A surprisingly emotional interview, he basically said that before the picture, he was 'brainwashed' at how he was supposed to perceive women, and coming out of it, he felt guilty for having ignored/shortchanged/misjudged so many people before because of that mindset he used to have.

I don't want to ruin any jokes, so I'll just repeat that it's a very funny picture. All the performances are excellent, especially Dustin Hoffman and Jessica Lange. The only real complaint I have is the music, which feels a bit too dated.

As for the DVD, this was released fairly recently, and it seems to be a good transfer from an excellent print. You get an anamorphic picture, which is great if you have a widescreen set, and there's a new 5.1 mix but it's not exactly a sophisticated soundtrack. It's also a two-sided disc, full-frame on one side, widesceen on the other, but each side only has about 4.1 GB of data, meaning the resolution isn't going to be great, and it shows in the long-shots and even medium shots where the facial details don't seem very defined. No real extras, which is unfortunate because even if they can't get Pollack, Hoffman, Lange, Garr, Murray, etc. to do commentary, there's plenty of available material that would've been nice (like Hoffman's emotional interview). Unless there's a 25th anniversary edition in the works for 2007, this is probably your best bet on home video.