If you love horror movies then watch Final Destination 1 and 2, it has lots of horror, comedy and suprises. The actors and actresses in those movies are spectacular. Let me worn you when you see the second one watch your step because death may be coming for you next. Both movies defently are a teen thriller. The first on was about when a class goes on a field trip to Paris. But will they make it. Only 7 people survive in the beggining, because of Alex (played By Devon Sawa) has a dream that scares everyone. he is fourced of the plane with some of his friends with him, when they are of the plane you see the plane taking of in the back round suddenly BOOOOM you see the plane exploding in the backround shatering the air ports windows. giving a chill to viewers it was just like Alex predicted in his dream the people who survived are frightened by Alex. As the days go on the survivers start readjusting to their lives till suddenly misteariously everyone starts to die that was supposed to die on the plane. It was part of "Deaths Design" they all start to die in the order that they would be sitting on the plane. Can they find away to  escape Deaths Design? Well just watch and find out. The second one is about 4 teens who are driving to Daytona Beach for the summer in the beginning of the movie. While they are on the highway Kimberly (played by J.T. Cook) had a vision involving a big pile up as she looks around she sees a bus of kids yelling "Pile Up" Sees a drunk driver, she then turns on the radio it was saying that there was going to be a mermorial for the crash of flight of 180 (since it was the one year anniversiry) she changes the channel and the song "Highway To Hell" comes on" then all hell breaks loose on the highway. everyone is dead, their red car rolls over Kim looks over than you she comes back to reality she holds up the traffic when a cop talks to her suddenly she is pulled away by the cop when a truck runs through her car killing everyone in it.
the cars in back of her were supposed to be in the crash but they escaped Deaths Design now all of the people who surrvived start to die in the order in which they were supposed to on the highway. again how will they escape from diing? You will love both movies. there is lots of glore in the second one you will watch it and you will love it :)