This mini-series has the familiar ingredients that we all expect for a Titanic production to be a success. Unfortunately, in this case the mixture only adds up to a partial success.

The producer's checklist seems to have included:

Grand settings. The ones here adequately invoke a Victorian house interior and/or a cruise ship, but are not especially impressive. This is clearly lower budget than some Titanic productions.

A good ragtime band and a romantic dance scene. Delivered, though the band doesn't play for long. A cynical quip by a band member about playing while the ship goes down. Delivered.

An instant romance, so the lovers can be parted when the ship sinks.  This film delivers several. One is between Georgiana, the suffragette daughter of the Earl of Manton, and the (non-fictional character) Harry Widener, a wealthy book collector from Philadelphia. One is  between the flirtatious Italian waiter Paolo and the equally flirtatious Annie, a maid for the second class. A third is a stately courtship between the Earl of Manton's valet and the Duchess's maid.  Unfortunately, there are so many story lines, and so much flitting between them, that they all lack conviction.

A troubled married couple whose underlying love is brought out by the tragedy. Here we have two, the Earl and Duchess of Manton, and Manton's Irish lawyer and his wife.

A closely united married couple who lose each other and/or children in the tragedy. Here they're in third class.

A bold woman who plays cards and drinks with the men.  It's usually the Unsinkable Molly Brown, but here Guggenheim's mistress Madame Aubar is a weak stand-in.

A man fleeing the law. Here it's the anarchist Peter the Painter, who may or may not have been a real person. Note:  It proves handy to have a terrorist on board.

A collision with an iceberg. Here it's remarkably played down. The iceberg is never visible, and the way the ship is doomed by the crew trying to set a speed record is barely mentioned.

The parents of several children who frantically search for one missing child as their lifeboat is being boarded, forcing them to make a hard decision. Delivered.

The third-class passengers being locked down as the ship sinks.  Delivered.

The first-class male passenger(s) who display the stiff upper lip by calmly sitting in a drawing room and drinking brandy as the ship goes down. Delivered.

Captain Smith insisting on going down with the ship. Delivered.

Great sinking special effects.  Only adequate here.

Wandering lifeboats in the darkness, with arguments about whether to return for the people floating in the water. Delivered.

One nearby ship not responding because they thought the flares were for a party and because they turned their wireless off.  Not delivered. Carpathia speeding to the rescue. Delivered only from the passengers' viewpoint, which is however fairly effective.

Class distinctions. This production differs from others in constantly emphasizing them. The Duchess of Manton sneers at everyone, including the selection of companions in her lifeboat. Manton's lawyer's wife spews Irish separatist sentiments. The British servants refuse to eat at the same table as the American servants. The third-class passengers are all looking for a better life in America. While this is to some extent realistic, it becomes tiresome and made me care much less about the characters.

Overall, it's an OK production. It's just that we've become accustomed to great productions.