I bought this DVD in celebration of Harry Morgan and John Ritter's lives. The both passed on, RIP HARRY and JOHN thank you for voicing the Green Wizard and Peter Dickenson.

When I opened this up it looked a little odd, so I flipped it over and it looked like a pirated copy since the disk is a DVD Recordable disk. Maybe it is a license agreement between WB; it's a DVD DOWNLOAD so likely AMAZON has an external place print the movie in at Lexington, KY. This is why there are 2 others out there with much worse looking cover art. This movie was animated and then released in 1982 and in 2010 Amazon got licensed to sell the DVDs. On the back of the cover it says The Flight of Dragons © 1982 Rakin/Bass Productions, Inc. Package © 2010 Turner Entertainment Co. and Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc. Distributed Warner Bros. Home Video, 4000 Warner Blvd. Burbank, CA 91522. All rights reserved. "Dolby" and the [)(] symbol are trademarks of Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation.

The other 2 covers look bad and uncertain they are the same quality this one is. There is a disclaimer on the bottom of the case that says: THIS DISK IS EXPECTED TO PLAY BACK IN DVD "PLAY ONLY" DEVICES. AND MAY NOT PLAY BACK IN OTHER DVD DEVICES. INCLUDING DVD RECORDERS AND PC DRIVES.

Now I seen people state that it does not work in PS 2/3, X-Box and X-Box 360. What the problem is you must manually start the DVD by pushing the play button in the menu of the DVD player of each console. It doesn't start automatically. It does have a menu but nothing but PLAY MOVIE and tells you that the chapters are 10 minutes each. It is compatible with every device for the most part. If it doesn't play on your pc right off you may have to open the DVD Player program and press play. I have a X-Box 360 and it does work it did not start it showed me the logo all I had to do was press start and it ran alternately you can bring up the soft menu control by pressing A then press A again on the play arrow and it will start. This is the first time I ever came across a commercial DVD like this. It is not a bad buy and I would recommend it to everyone, it is a tad violent mostly fantasy. Less violent than say DBZ or Avatar. If I was to give it a rating I would rate it as PG, it is about as violent as Fern Gully.

So rest assured it will work on consoles with a manual start of the movie.