Dammit people - let's not encourage studios to abuse us by buying every crummy micro iteration of their product they offer up - come on! 'Tears of the Sun' has only just been released as a Director's Cut on SD DVD & whatever your opinion of the film you have to question why, why, why is the Blu-Ray release still only the original studio cut and minus the extra 11minutes?

Ho hum.....ok rant over:

'Tears' is an OK actioner.  Willis, leading a decent cast, turns in an oddly effective dead pan performance. I was impressed by his war weary 'Lt' characterisation. Of the better aspects of the movie, along with great cinematography by Mauro Fiore and the soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, was the solid performances with actors like; Monica Bellucci, Nick Chinlund, Sammi Rotibi et als all delivering much more subtle, rounded characters than you might expect from a film in this genre.

One of the main criticisms levelled by reviewers here is that Willis, unbelievably and counter to his orders turns back the helo to rescue all the refugees. The argument for his decision to this time - not to just dumbly go along ticking the State Dept's boxes as he has done throughout his career is touched on later in the film. After the ad hoc discussion Willis holds by the river prior to the denouement, Eamonn Walker's character 'Zee' envinces emotionally, "...for all years we were told to stand down & stand by ... you're doin' the right thing". It's not Shakespeare but that's good enough for me.

Other gripes about the realism of weapons use and tactics I am unqualified to comment on - Rogue Spear on Veteran Difficulty is the full extent of my Black Ops experience :] - but to be fair I felt there was enough detail in there to forgive a scene of firing from the hip nonsense or that Fisher Price super GPS tracking laptop - after all it's an action film not a Weapons Manual.

In the end your left with a half decent moral message and a good atmospheric soundtrack. It's good rainy sunday afternoon fare.