4:02 PM - The 400 Blows

I finally got around to seeing a movie I bought called, "The 400 Blows".  It was said in an interview of an actress I'm fond of, to be one of her favorite movies of all time.

I normally dont go for the old black and white movies, but I descided to give it a shot.

I was pleasently suprised to see, though an older movie, the acting was rather good, and the plot wasnt borring at all.

The 400 Blows, I still dont understand the title, is a French movie by a man named Francois Truffaut.

Normally I'm not a fan of Subtitles because the reader can loose attention to the plot by trying desperately to read along.  But that wasnt the case here, the dialog went so naturally it was no trouble to keep in the moment.

The story is about a kid named Antoine.  He looks to be in eigth grade.  Antoine doesnt behave in class and is a cronic lier.  Antoine's vandalism and theft start out at petty levels, but as the movie goes on they get more natural and in the moment.

The back bone relationship of this movie is between Antoine and his Mother.  She seems to view him as more of a probluem then a child.

At first glance of his father you are led to believe they are two pees in a pod.  Indeed, despite his faults, Antoine's Father is a good man and a good father.  Later we find out that he is not Antoine's biological father, to his credit I think it is wonderfull that he tried to be.

Another important character of the film is Antoine's best friend.  The kid comes from an obvious upper middle class family, and is guilty of that common alement of not knowing how good you have it, and pretending your a tuff street kid.

To his credit, Antoine's friend is loyal and tries hard to do right by Antoine.

There is a school teacher in this film, Sourpuss, that makes me think the English Teach from a later film called, "Fast Times At Ridgemont High" was based on the Truffaut character.

For the most part I was simpathetic of Antoine in his plight, but once he plagurized that essey things started to be stop being his parents fault, and started being his fault.

All in all it was good movie.  I give it 4 out of 5 stars.  I may be a stupid American for wanting this, but I like to know what happens to a character.  The ending left me a little dissapointed, but maybe that was the point.  Art is complicated.