To say that this reader found no joy in this rendering of the classic tale is to to state the obvious: there is little joy in this cautionary tale of obsession and revenge. But my problem here goes way beyond the somber mood that Melville creates for us and that is literally recreated (along with the wonderful narration) in the 1956 origional film. Here we have a grinning Ahab courtesy of William Hurt. You will find no mention of a grinning countenance in the book. Likewise the liberties taken with the plot are to me as unforgiven as is our great whale to the captain. NB Spoiler Alert, To wit: The scene in which Ahab stands upon the mighty back of the creature with his bloody lance and utters ".....Thus I stabbeth ye oh dammed whale....." is gone. Gone! The hair raising scene in which Ahab arises like Christ to beckon his crew to their death (as prophesized by Ejijah) is gone! Here we have Starbuck returning to the Pequod to keep Pip company rather than going to a watery grave in the wake of Moby Dick. And as if to add insult to injury Ishmael ducks under the water and holds his breath to watch a very poor rendering of Moby Dick swim past as if they are in a Hollywood swimming pool. Dear friends it is a total loss. But that is not the worst of it. The core, the very raison d'etre of Melvilles work has been discarded perhaps because it was not understood. Listen here: go 98 minutes into the origional and listen to Gregory Peck give the grand soliloquy which defines this epic and gives it it's life. He recites Melvilles prose verbatim. It begins "Is Ahab Ahab..." and ends with "where do murders go man..." What follows is a discourse on the nature of the universe and life itself. It is the conflict between free will and determinism. "If the sun cannot rise in the sky without God's will how can I Ahab raise this arm?" Free will vs Determinism. Ahab feels he must complete his tragic voyage even as he sees it unfold before him because he is preordained to do so by a higher authority. Do we plot our own course through life or are we just characters in a great play authored by the gods? This is the core of Melville's opus. The great philosophical conundrum to be debated in our classrooms and perhaps in our hearts and our souls. It is gone from this empty rewrite. Gone! How sad for us. Watch the origional movie and listen to Gregory Peck recite Melville as he would recite Shakespeare. It deserves to be heard as it was written. Or better yet, read the book.