It is hard to predict how this movie will play to somebody who has never seen it, given that it's twenty years old now.  Because I grew up watching this movie, I can only see it through those eyes.  If you aren't familiar with the movie already, all I can say is at least go rent it.  If you are familiar with the movie, I highly recommend this DVD.

I had only seen this movie in the chopped-up Pan-n-Scan format, and seeing the complete film in all its Widescreen glory is great.  The picture quality is amazing compared to my VHS copy recorded off HBO!  :)  Of course the sound is great, too.

The extras list indicates "Outtakes", which are really Deleted Scenes.  I wanted to clarify this because sometimes they use the word "outtakes" to refer to Bloopers/Gag Reel.  These Deleted Scenes were very interesting to see.  There's one that's several minutes long and involves the gang stopping by a convenience store and being harrassed by Troy's bunch.  It was also great to finally get to see the octopus scene I had heard so much about.  Fun stuff!

I did not remember the Cyndi Lauper music video, but if you remember it I'm sure this will hold some nostalgic value for you.  Otherwise, it's probably something you will only watch once.

The "making of" documentary is not new...it was produced around the time of the film's release.  There are some slow spots where the plot is explained for people who haven't seen the movie.  However, there was quite a bit of behind the scenes footage, and the impromptu interviews with Richard Donner and the cast are fun to watch.

The best of the extras is the VIDEO commentary with Donner and the gang.  Corey Feldman is really annoying, but if you can stomach his antics, the commentary is really enjoyable.  The group has a good comradery and it's great to hear them reminiscing about the film.  Best of all, you get to SEE them doing the commentary.  It's great to see what the cast looks like fifteen years later.  This is a GREAT feature that I wish more DVDs included.

Donner; the man responsible for "The Omen", "Maverick", "Scrooged", "Conspiracy Theory", "Superman: The Movie", and the "Lethal Weapon" movies; put together a movie here that's great fun to watch, even twenty years later.  Again, if you like the movie, I highly recommend the DVD.  If you haven't seen it yet, what are you waiting for?