Lugh--pronounce it with a soft guttural emphasis on the '-gh'.  It's not accidentally similar to 'Luke', the gospel author, whose name would read as 'Loggan' in the old Greek texts.  If one searches up 'all saints' brookline dot org,  and follows the 'Celtic' link to Lughnasa, it's possible to get a bird's eye view of the assortment of Lughnasa traditions which have been part of this Celtic Christian Eucharist of First Fruits.  That helped me understand those character actions of what isn't an action film.

I enjoy all the footage  from around Donegal Ireland.  This adaptation of a stage play left me wondering whether that scenery is why someone converted this story to film.  Although the film plays a bit like a do-cu-drama, there seems to be a lot of presumption of familiarity with the culture of the Island, circa 1936.  That's near to 70 years later than my Irish branch migrated to America.  Nevertheless, the farm house occupied by these 5 sisters operates in much the same manner as my Great grandma would have done in Ohio.  (She would've had that wash rack up on a table or bench though, to save her back. )  She took in washing and cooking tasks for local farmers.  And worked and raised my mom with two siblings through the depression because their mother had died young.

Back to the characters in the film.  I cannot over stress the importance of that plot of land, of that modest but nice house  to the people who live there.  They are proud of it.  And when the youngest daughter, the only one who affords herself the grace of falling in love, declines to leave their home with her loving man, we might share in the pragmatism of her view point.  Even though it meant taking a factory job, that was her house, and her child was going to live in a proper house, father or not.  It was plenty of real estate for their chickens and potatoes and vegetables.

I had to read the background of the brother, the Priest who came back from the mission field with mental health issues, on the Wikipedia.  Although I watched the film more than once, if his malaria was ever mentioned, I didn't catch it.  It seems to me that as a stage play this must have included much more narrative dialog.  There is perhaps some deliberate stereotyping of Catholic self righteousness played out in the lives of this family.  The spinster status of the sisters is alluded to by commentators as reaping what has been sown.

Lastly, Lughnasa is such an interesting picture of the Christianization of a Pagan celebration.  While the movie mentions the Pagan god Lugh, god of light and music, whose celebration is depicted with bonfires and dancing until the next sunrise, I was interested to learn that Lughnasa is the Gaelic name for the month of August.  Of course it sounds different over in Wales, but Lugh is also one of the High kings of the Tuatha de Danaan, father of the Irish hero Cuchulain.  Lughnasa is a place of the imagination, rather than a geography.  It is a place in time (sort of)  which transcends the present time.  Since the film has identified Lugh as something different than what I've read of him elsewhere, the whole setting is rather more surreal, a bit like "All Souls Night" from Loreena McKennitt's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000J233U8">The Visit</a>

As a Paganization of Celtic Christianity, Lughnasa becomes the Eucharist celebration of the first fruits.  While an ordained Priest may perhaps not dance, the people as a whole have celebrated the dance since before the dawn of history.  This is a tangible crisis element, that the sisters have avoided the sanctioned dance and socialization for so long their spinsterhood is now inevitable.