Many people here have written about this anime series' greatest strengths; it's unwavering portrayal of the sickness of using violence, especially forcing children to obtain power and resources at the cost of all else.

However, for me there are some issues. I would have liked the series to have gone a couple more episodes to fit in more character development for the main protagonist, Shu Matsutani, rather than just leave him as an unchanging hyper-optimist. It would have been interesting to see Shu go through moments of doubt in his beliefs, and maybe see him nearly sucumb to temptation to join Hellywood when offered power in exchange for Lala-Ru and her pendant.

For the villian characters, King Hamdo is a disappointment. How did this guy ever get in charge of anything? He's clearly very nearly rendered dysfunctional by his insanity. So was there ever a point he wasn't insane? His brief moments of apparent, frighteningly cold lucidness hint at a man of intelligence and capability. But why does Abelia follow him, or anyone else, for that matter, if he was always the way we see him? It would have been nice if the writers had put in a scene or two with some lines giving more of the history of Hamdo and Abelia, and what the man was like before that he could inspire such loyalty in her that she would gladly do any atrocity for him. Maybe it would have been interesting to find out they were lovers at one time, and she's in denial that the man she fell in love is slipping away from her day by day due to his progressively degrading mental condition. Yes, make Hamdo a sympathetic person, too. Maybe he WAS a great and wonderful man before his illness, and was loved because of that. Certainly many real life dictators have started off as idealists looking to find a way to improve their peoples' lives, but somewhere along the way are corrupted by the power they wind up in possession of.

Having that kind of character development in the villians would have elevated this series to being a truly timeless classic, but as it stands, it's still a great series that is thought-provoking and heart-breaking.