Of all the new fitness DVDs released in the last while, I was probably least enthused about this one - however I ended up with two copies of it come Christmas. Over the past week, while nursing a couple of light injuries, I've spent a bit more time with this DVD than I had to date.

Generally speaking, I already had a positive opinion of the DVD before I walked through everything again this week. It contains four sixteen-minute mile walks, two led by Bob Harper, two led by fan fave past competitors Sione and Tara. Realistically speaking, only the first workout is a proper walk - Bob basically takes you through all manners of shuffling forwards, backwards, and side-to-side, with a bit of body movement through kicks and arm rotations. The second mile focuses on upper body sculpting with light weights (I recommend no heavier than 5 lbs) and similar foot movements to level 1. The third mile is again led by Bob and kicks it up a notch - it's a power jog, and great cardio. The final level uses a medicine ball (feel free to grab a 5 lb weight in its place) and is lighter on cardio than level 3, but higher than the earlier levels.

The thing I like about this DVD isn't so much that I expect my body to be really changed by these workouts, but that they make great alternatives to kicking your butt on a daily basis. I like to combine a walk with a shorter 10-20 minute segment from another one of my workout DVDs.

I also like how focused the workouts are - Bob has a bad tendency to take you away from what you expect a workout to be like, and he also loves to make you hold positions. Neither one of those are an option here as you're constantly in motion. It was refreshing to do Mile 3 and just do straight up cardio for sixteen minutes - no stopping for push-ups or some other strength-focused move.

The downsides? As mentioned, this is definitely not the workout that will change your life. It's a great introduction to fitness, and the Biggest Loser 'style', if you're new to working out, and it's a fantastic companion to other DVDs. It's also a good choice when you're nursing some injuries (as I was) and want to take things a little easier but keep on exercising.

Another con - the cast. Tara and Sione seem a lot more comfortable (but still a lil' awkward) in front of the camera compared to their last instructive go-round on '30-Day Jump Start', but their presence makes the rest of the cast pretty insignificant. With the exception of Sunshine, I don't know a single other cast member's name (I don't watch the show), and I still maintain that the early days of the workout dvds are amongst the most fun because of the level of interactivity between the trainers and the contestants. Overall I'm surprisingly pleased with this DVD. The walks are surprisingly cardio-packed (particularly Mile 3) and relatively intensive as a good partner for sculpting workouts.