The thing that grabs so many people in the twilight series is the agelessness. If you are a teenager the appeal is obvious, but those of us that are no longer teens, it helps us remember and ask again "is there such a thing as unconditional love"? I once believed so and this allows us to dream again. It also makes me want a "do over" and has made me reassess my look on life. Each movie gets a little better as far as technical aspect. I bought a new HD 3D t.v. just in case Breaking Dawn is in 3D but it, also, allows me to see, close up, the changes from movie to movie. The make up has improved drastically and the contact lenses have also become more pronounced which in Eclipse was not a good thing for Robert Pattinson because the gold contacts made him look blind in some scenes although he compensated beautifully. Although I really disliked the ending, I was impressed with him in Remember Me. He is an original. I foresee an Oscar in his future if he can deal with all that comes with such huge change his life. Kristen Stewart is a little less "twitchy" in Eclipse and definitely seems more at ease in her skin.It has been fascinating to watch her transform from gawky teen to the sophisicated Bella in Breaking Dawn. Taylor Lautner does well but I have a hard time watching him because his description in the book has him as a very tall man which he obviously is not but does not keep me from enjoying his performance. I admire his dedication to his role.
I am very disappointed with the release date of Eclipse and Breaking Dawn. The fans have been very good to all involved in the Twilight series and I feel it is not being reciprocated. If the dvd release date were sooner, it would give people, in this economy , time to buy more than one Eclipse Christmas gift which, I believe, is the reason behind the long release date.
I urge everyone to treat themselves to this dvd, in my opinion, is the best in the trilogy so far as the acting, technical and quality of the movie over all. Enjoy the visit to unconditional love