...I recently reviewed this film looking for misogyny and possible ways out of it, as presented in the film. There's more reasons to think that Cameron is trying to argue with sexism than endorse it. If you accept the logic of this film, you WILL love women.
First the sexist reasoning. Almost all of Tom Arnold's jokes come at the expense of women. The commonest one being that screwing a woman is to screw her over. Jamie-Lee Curtis, Arnold's wife, spends much of the film being a damselle in distress. And when she fights out of her predicament it's in a cat-fight with Tia Carrere. She's also interested in an affair with an ambiguously sexed love interest. The guy she wants to have an affair with is a used car dealer who listens to the Bee Gees and likes boys' behinds. And then there's the minor footnote of the time Arnold rides a horse into an elevator with an elderly couple. The little old lady is disgusted, frumpish and silly, as even the horse is smart enough to see when it smacks her face with its tail. The little old man husband meanwhile thinks Arnold's horse is swell. Moral: men have longer adolescences than women.
The anti-sexist stuff is there too in direct response to the misogyny. JLC really does fight her way out of her trap. And when Arnold saves her, she grasps his arm as vigorously as he does her's. Arnold's daughter becomes the damselle in disress in the end. (SPOILER WARNING: SEE THE FILM BEFORE YOU READ FURTHER.) But she singlehandedly prevents Miami from being nuked. And at the close of the film Arnold has a great time clowning around with his wife and daughter.
Cameron is offering a thought experiment: What if all the utterly sexist thoughts which flit through young men's minds are true? What if women really are confused at best and silly at worst? What if their beauty is only skin deep? And what if their devotion can easily fray? Say all that is true. Can you still love them? The answer is one that any good New Age guru is going to accept: you can because women are FUN.
(There's also a hint that the film is really a personal piece of art when the Arab terrorist directs himself in a video warning to the US.)
Please, Jim! Come back to action! No one else does it as good as you! Just treat us worker ants like we're the alpha males and we'll follow you every time!