Vampire anime is nothing new . . . and Black Blood Brothers falls somewhere in the middle of it all.  Based in a world where vampires and humans live mostly in peace, that peace is broken when virulent new breed of vampires emerges, called the Kowloon Children.  These vampires, unlike the others in the Black Blood world, create new vampires simply by biting a human and thus either tend to procreate rapidly or kill violently.  It was thought that these Kowloon children were wiped out ten years prior to the start of this story--but now the trouble may be starting again.  Reenter the "Silver blade", Jiro Mochizuki, a vampire warrior from ten years prior now on a journey to the special zone in Hong Kong with his younger brother, Kotaro.  The two become caught up in the vampire/human war once more as it becomes evident that the Kowloon children are on the rise and Jiro must use his old skills to keep his brother safe...

Overall, this anime is . . . mediocre.  The style of the anime is bright and vivid, with good graphics and action, but the storyline is nothing particularly innovative.  It is neither the violent blood fest of something like Hellsing, nor is it the moodier and reflective style of the bittersweet Vampire Princess Miyu.  There is some violence, combined with scenes that alternate between action, touches of humor and moody drama.  The overall result is something that is more appealing to the audience that enjoys relationship anime rather than those looking for lots of action and violence. Each episode starts with a flashback that hints at things not yet explained, and then jumps into the action.  Jiro and Kotaro inadvertently stow away on a boat that is the stage for a clash between a group of vampires and the human Suppression Team.  Jiro and Kotaro wind up going overboard--and it's up to Mimiko Katsusagi, a young woman working as a mediator between sides, to help the brothers when Jiro walks to shore.  Mimiko manages to smooth things over, until the Suppression team shows up again seeking Kowloon vampires.  Jiro and Mimiko find themselves awkward allies against gun-toting humans and super-deadly vampires.  Jiro is an odd mix of wild clothing, mystery and tragedy with a touch of human and all the manners of a gentleman.  His back story is only beginning to be laid out in the first disk of this series, and viewers will have to watch the rest of the disks to get the full story on him.  He is perhaps the most interesting character of this anime and doesn't fall into the trap of being too full of angst to act when needed. His younger brother, a curly blond haired, blued eyed little child is nothing like Jiro--other than having pointy fangs.  He doesn't seem to be a true vampire yet and he is by turns cute and charming and extremely annoying.  The relationship between Jiro and his Kotaro is puzzling.  Jiro seems determined to protect his brother at all costs, yet willing to engage in casual violence to punish his brother when he becomes too annoying.  For instance, at the introduction to both characters, Kotaro is busily banging on Jiro's coffin and endlessly trying to get his brother to wake.  It's unsurprising that Jiro is annoyed, but the way he casually smacks his brother into the floor with considerable force is unnerving.  Obviously being a vampire boy, Kotaro isn't badly hurt, but the implied violence against a child by the hero is just a bit hard to put aside--and isn't really that funny to this viewer.  The female lead, Mimiko routinely acts as an intermediary and helps vampires get settled in the secure zone.  Her character provides humor and some romantic tension in the storyline, with a potential for expansion in the future. Overall, Mimiko can be a bit silly in her reactions, but they're not over the top for the style of the anime.

The action moves fairly quickly on this disk, so there are no long scenes of background building and emotional stillness--the characters keep the plot moving forward.  The audience for this particular story is likely the preteen and teen audience, rather than the more adult crowd--although it is difficult to anticipate where this anime may go in future disks.  Even though this is not the most original anime, it manages to present a cohesive and action-filled story with some interesting subplots.  The artwork is decent and easy to watch, and for someone who enjoys anime series with a vampire theme, this isn't a bad way to pass a few hours in an afternoon with some popcorn and soda. Viewers who get hooked may want to look into getting the later disks to find out more about the brothers' past and what will happen to them in the future--as well as seeing if the tentative romantic tension continues.  Viewers who like this may also want to check out the Night Walker anime series about a vampire investigator who takes on the things that go bump in the night.

Happy Viewing! ^_^ Shanshad