Every year I rent Wrestlemania and to tell the truth, this event was way better than WM18! This event had Ashanti and Limp Bizkit performing, it even had the Miller Lite Catfight girls! Here are the matches and what I thought about them.
Cruiserweight Championship match
Matt Hardy vs. Rey Mysterio
Great opener with a lot of high flying moves and with a great ending.
Undertaker vs. Big Show & A-Train
Not one of the Undertaker's best match at a Wrestlemania but still good, even though it was a little too short. Nathan Jones even makes an appearance towards the end of the match.
Triple Threat match for the Women's Championship
Victoria vs. Jazz vs. Trish Stratus
Great match with a lot of action. Better than last years Wrestlemania triple threat women's title match.
Triple Threat tag team match for the Tag Team Championships
Rhyno & Chris Benoit vs. Team Angle vs. Los Guerreros
Little bit of a let down match. This match was too short with terrible action and a terrible ending. Terrible match of the night.
Shawn Michaels vs. Chris Jericho
Awesome match, even though it was too long. Chirs Jericho's best match at a Wrestlemania ever.
Fatal Four Way Catfight match
I'm not going to list the names, but this match was funny but really stupid. But the women looked so hot!
Heavyweight Championship match
Triple H vs. Booker T
Good match with a lot of competitive wrestling, I even laughed when J.R lost his temper at Ric Flair. The ending could of been better.
Street Fight
Vince McMahon vs. Hulk Hogan
Brutal match with some good spots. Not Vince's best street fight ever, but it was better than his one with Ric Flair at the Royal Rumble. Great spot with the ladder and table. Rowdy Roddy Piper even makes a surprise appearance. To me this match was Hogan's best match at a Wrestlemania.
Stone Cold Steve Austin vs. The Rock
Okay match with the Rock finally defeating his long time rival at a Wrestlemania. This was a classic match that needed to be seen.
Undisputed Championship match
Kurt Angle vs. Brock Lesnar
Good technical wrestling from beginning to end. Not the best main event at a Wrestlemania, but still good. Brock's Shooting Star Press was amazing and the ending with Kurt and Brock shaking hands was a sight to see.
So there you have it, to me this was the 3rd best Wrestlemania ever! Can't wait for Wrestlemania 20!