Bought this for the original theatrical version and I love it.  It looks perfectly fine on a non-HD TV.  Basically it sounds, from other reviews, like it looks worse the larger it gets.  So just don't view it on a huge screen.

Fortunately, all the loud protests of fans about the limitations of this product may have kept it from selling out too soon.  Now you can pick up new copies for around $10.  This is probably the least amount of buyer's remorse I've ever had with a Star Wars movie in the last twenty years (aside from the Genndy Tartakovsky Clone War Cartoons I bought as children's gifts)

And don't look a gift horse in the mouth.  If you want to wait for George Lucas to release a cleaned up anamorphic edition of the originals, you'll never see it.  Generally if he does something, he'll use the state-of-the-art method of doing so, which takes more time and money.  Problem is, by the time he cleans, makes it anamorphic, and increases the resolution for HDTV, who knows what else he'll decide to do.  This is probably the closest thing you'll get.

This is Star Wars.  I never felt right about all the changes.  I tried to trust George Lucas.  I thought that the changes were going to make the movies blend with the then upcoming prequels.  But honestly, the entire process of seeing the special editions of the originals and then watching each prequel just chipped away at any hope I may have had.  In my opinion these movies began a decline after 1980's Empire Strikes Back.

There are no changes in the newer editions that added anything to the originals.  In fact, now that I've seen them again, the changes actually detract, some just more than others.  Movies are a collaborative effort of writers, directors, actors, special effects, music, etc.  In a sense, the time period and other conditions are also key collaborators.  Their contributions include their weaknesses and limitation.  Any piece of art, whether it's a painting, novel, or movie, is best viewed through an "historical lens."  Star Wars looks only a little clunky now, so it's not at all hard to see how fantastic it looked back in 1977 and for many years beyond.

My disappointment with the Star Wars Prequels was that we never saw Anikan Skywalker make any descent (slow or otherwise) to the "Dark Side."  Instead he makes a rash emotional decision in the last moments of the final prequel, commits horrible but uncharacteristic acts, becomes mutilated, and is placed in a black outfit.  All the time before I imagined the suit was a reflection of the man inside, now it appears that he simple was the suit.  George Lucas just doesn't have the ability to let his characters live and make mistakes or do bad things.  That's why he had to change the scene with Han shooting Greedo, and even had Luke screaming when he fell into the bottomless pit in "Empire," because he didn't want people to think Luke was intentionally ending his life (he removed that change later).

I've thought this independently, and it's been said many times before, that "George Lucas has given in to the Dark Side."  In a way, we are witnessing the drama of Anikan succumbing to the Dark Side through George Lucas.  He's become trapped in his own creation.  He can only tinker with what he sees as flaws, instead of moving on and creating something new.

Now he plans to release all the the Star Wars movies in numerical order and in 3-D.  In a way I'm glad, because I can finally put my foot down and simply not follow this man any further.  I will never see any of these movies in 3-D.  I will probably only occasionally watch the theatrical versions, such as they are, from here on out.