The film's analysis of corporate psychopathy is reasonably accurate and a valuable educational experience for those who imagine that most corporations are, on balance, benign. However, its analysis is narrow and biased and its conclusion is unsupported by anything in the body of the film. It blames corporations for the actions of governments and then seriously proposes more government involvement as a solution. If its Pollyanna producers had ever worked for a government, they would know that governments are no better and may be worse than corporations.

  For example, the film criticizes corporations for supporting Nazism. Early on, many German corporations did make that mistake. The Krupps and Thyssens soon learned to their regret that Hitler was not as controllable as a US Senator. The Nazis did not kowtow to corporations; they took control of German corporations for the good of the German Volk. (While it is true that they got a large part of the Volk killed and Germany reduced to a burned-out cinder, we have to allow for the fact that governments sometimes make mistakes.) However poorly considered the Nazis' foreign policy may have been (for those too young to remember, it was even worse than current American foreign policy), the Nazis were disinclined to share power with anyone. Since they controlled German corporations, it is illogical to argue that the horrors of WWII were caused, controlled or significantly influenced by those corporations.

  But what of American corporations? Should IBM and other American corporations feel ashamed of their involvement with the Nazis? Hard to argue that, too, because the film effectively demonstrates that corporations are psychopaths. Psychopaths don't feel shame. Oh, well.

  Then--without even an "Oh, well" to announce the logical reversal (probably because the film's producers did not notice it)--the film provides numerous examples of the horrors that result when governments support rather than control corporations. Even here, it is clear that the down and dirty business of killing people to support corporate profits is handled by governments, not by corporations. Fact is, corporate leaders are wimps. Sure, the Krupps and the Thyssens built weapons for the Nazis, but they did not pull any triggers. Sure, American corporations poison cows and sell the water of life--hell, they destroy the atmosphere--but don't look to their Boards of Directors to go out in the street and kill the bastards who object. They have governments to do that for them.

  Yet, somehow, despite this film's documentary evidence to the contrary, its producers seem to think that governments are a solution. As Nietzsche once observed, insanity in individuals is rare but, in governments, corporations and other bureaucracies (including film companies), it is the rule. Yes, I'm paraphrasing; Nietzsche predated bureaucracies and corporations; to him, large agglomerations of people were nations, states and popular movements. But he saw the problem: the rational intelligence of an organization is not the sum of the individual intelligences within it, nor the average of the individual intelligences within it, nor even the often demonic intelligence of some highly-regarded crackpot at the top; too often, the intelligence of an organization is equal to one very average intelligence divided by the number of individuals in the organization. And that brings up a final point touched on too lightly in this film: If you see a massive problem, don't assume it results from conspiracy. It may result from stupidity and cowardice.

  If you assume conspiracy, you may wonder about the motives of the film's producers, who emphasize, in their brief prognosis for the future, a few popular victories over corporations. They fail to mention that, for every victory, humanity suffers ten thousand defeats. False positivism is the gruel that corporations would have everyone eat, every meal, every day. It's cheap and it's effective. Seeing it repeated in this film demonstrates the pervasive, invasive power of corporate marketing in everyone's thinking, even the thinking of those who think they think for themselves. For all its willingness to present some sour truths, this film ends in artificially sweetened pap. It needs a realistic and powerful conclusion. There is no shame in admitting that you see no solution and the future looks pretty bleak.