Love love love this exhaustive collection of memories and fabulous animation! I bought this recently when i was out of town at a Cracker Barrel, and knew it was for me right away! And at 600 toons to the tune of $15.00, you can't beat it! I love old and public domain cartoons, almost 2 year's worth of watching if you watch one a day! This brings back many wonderful memories, as well as "new" discoveries that i probably saw at one time or another. I'm the odd man (girl) out here, but i definitely believe them when they say digitally remastered, sure they still have their cracks and pops (which makes them nostalgic, there's only so much you can do with old film), but i owned some of these, like Little LuLu on Video as a kid, and can definitely tell the difference. The quality is sensational on my portable DVD player, picture as well as sound wise. Even the b&w's are crystal clear.

But what can i say- what a collection! It's great to have so many memories on DVD's that i don't have to transfer from video. The packaging and content reminded me very much of a "big cartoon" video collection my grandparents gave us for Christmas many years ago (and we thought 26 cartoons was a big set!!!) While of course there isn't Looney Tunes or Disney, there's many "in betweens" cartoons that were featured on Bugs Bunny cartoon sets.  And yes, i love the fact that public domain collections are not edited for political correctness, reflecting the values and concerns of the times. Great for historical as well as just entertainment purposes. Regardless of your viewpoints, when you edit for political correctness, you lose a part of history. Btw, there are knock-off Mickey Mouse and Bugs Bunnyish looking characters if it interest any of you. And speaking of history, there is a vocal version of the WW1 anthem, "We're in the Army Now" sung on "A Close Call" on Aesop's Fables on Disc 7. As a music freak i know a vocal version of this is almost impossible to find.

I have heard the old tired attack on cartoons from some people that they are violent for kids, etc. Anybody with half a brain knows the difference between real and pretend "violence." I've never heard of a kid going postal after watching Wile E. drop a bomb on the Road Runner. I even heard a grown woman say the Looney Tunes were scary to her. Therapy. It truly breaks my heart that there can be hate in the world for something as genius and harmless as a cartoon. No doubt it would be the kids that were DEPRIVED of the joy of cartoons who would grow up to be the mass murderers of this world, and i am so glad they are preserved in this collection. I hope to share these with my loved ones and own kids in the future. Another reason i suspect things like this are so bugetly priced, as they may be of no interest to the extremely offended.

While i'm usually about me some organization, it's neat that the cartoons are all mixed up, it's like a treasure hunt and gives variety to each disc.

All the favorites are here - Little LuLu, Betty Boop, Casper, Felix, Three Stooges, Brementown Musicians, Molly Moo Cow and the Butterflies. The Popeyes i have gotten in to so far are black and white. The historical timeline of animation and cartooning styles in itself make it worth buying. Great for "kids" of all ages from 1-92! Sure to please any youngster you may be buying this for. Luckily, kids (as well as many adults) do not care about perfect quality films, i am just pleased that this has been released to the public in one compact and handy collection. It sure saves the work of transferring, hunting, buying, and researching for cartoon buffs. This collection is a very apt tribute to the classic cartooning of various animators and production companies.

Love all the new discoveries as well, that might be more familiar to the older set than me- like a Snap Crackle and Pop short- must have been a promo for Rice Krispies. Was this on TV or in the movies?

Big kudos to Mill Creek Ent for providing such an outstanding and affordable collection of treasured memories! You made this gal very happy!!!