I was very displeased with this movie. Leave it to hollywood! This movie teaches a Lie and then at the end I was hoping maybe someone was going to come in and reveal the truth but then the little boy says to the rabbi that you don't have to pray to Jesus and that you can pray in any name to get to heaven. Lie! Its not about a ritual each Sunday and worshiping statues.John 14:6 , The word of God which is the Bible teaches there's only one Way, Truth and Life and that is Jesus Christ alone! The Bible also teaches Acts 4:12 niether is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved... (Acts 16:31).Galations 5:5For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Galations 5:21 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.Rev.22:15 Outside are the dogs, those who practice magic arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. John 3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. It can't be done. You can not get into heaven by being good, because no one can be good enough.The Bible makes this very clear in numerous passages. Here are a few, starting with one of the most famous:For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the Law." (NASB) Romans 3:28. For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith--and this not from yourselves, it is the gift of God--not by works, so that no one can boast." (NIV) Ephesians 2:8-9. If then by grace, then it is no longer by works; if it were, grace would no longer be grace." (NIV) Romans 11:6

So here a just a few verses that tell the truth. A statue cannot save us it is Through Jesus Christ only! Its for Jews and Gentiles alike. God is n respecter of persons. Please search for the truth and don't settle for what man says. I hope you were Blessed.