I've been reading some of the criticism of Superman II ...and I have to say that really, it just seems to be a load of sour grapes spouted by people who know more than they probably should!
Superman II, whoever takes most credit for the directing duties (who cares?!), is, has and always will be a classic movie...
I don't know anybody who really gives a toss about the production problems - this movie is just as exciting as the first and, basically, equals the first movie for excitement and entertainment value.
One thing I would note though, is that I have given the movie the full 5 stars strictly for the movie itself as there are no real extras to speak of besides the trailer.
Superman II on DVD just doesn't compare to the value for money you get with the DVD version of the first movie.
It's a shame because, as with all 4 Superman movies (especially the much criticized Superman IV), there were lots of footage which were cut - some of which were (strangely) reinstated in television broadcasts of the movies. (Why? I have no idea!)
Scenes still not in this version include how Clark got his powers back, and deleted scenes could have included General Zod using a machine gun(!)...
In terms of using DVD to its full potential, Superman II is definitely a let down...
But saying that, you really can't beat Superman II on DVD in widescreen, compared to the dodgy old tapes released commercially way back in the late eighties, (and that goes for any of the other Superman movies), so if you have a DVD player I still can't recommend Superman II highly enough!!
One point of interest for the Superman movie fans who wonder why there's nothing extra in the DVD version of Superman II:
The reason is because Richard Donner refuses to have anything to do with the movie. Apparently he was offered the chance to rework the film as he did with the Superman: The Movie DVD, but he declined, still angry at being sacked by the producers all those years ago... (I think he must own the bits which were cut out then, otherwise why couldn't somebody else at Warners have put them in as "Deleted Scenes"...????)