Yeah I know it's "sugar", but watching this movie is like eating a cake baked with salt instead of sugar.  I like Bruce Campbell, I smile everytime I see him in a film, on a T.V. show or in a commercial.  He makes me laugh with his wisecracking humor and he's been in the type of B-movie guilty pleasures I'll always overrate thanks to his presence.  The Evil Dead films happen to be some of my favorite horror films ever, particularly the second one which he played a large part in making special.  Army of Darkness is a laugh riot goof ball comedy and no matter what his critics may say, I do feel he has plenty of acting ability to pull off more dramatic roles.

Having said all that, I don't like this movie.  It tries too hard to be funny and I think they approached it the wrong way.  There was no need to make a spoof of Bruce Campbell or his films since so many of his films intentionally cast him knowing they are spoofing themselves.  This movie is the equivalaent of someone repeating a joke after everyone has already laughed at it, and then laughing at their own joke.  It just didn't work for me overall, it would have made a much better short or a series of quick internet webisodes.

Obviously every Bruce Campbell fan should check this out, I mean if you sat through Alien Apocalypse just for Bruce Campbell, then you can definitely make it through this.  You may find it funny, humor is subjective, but this movie just didn't do it for me.  I think if Bruce Campbell were going to spoof himself, it would have been funnier if they didn't use the whole supernatural element.  Just have him be that wise cracker "Ash" in everyday life, telling off Hollywood Execs, hitting on young drunk celebrities, punching out the paparazzi and ordering his legion of fans to take out Shatner's legion of fans.  Had they approached this the same way Bob Sagat makes fun of "himself" in Entourage it would have been true comedy gold.

The movie didn't do it for me, I got all the jokes since I am a diehard Campbell fan but they still flat, but I still say hail to the King.