Probably the best New York scenes of the late 1950's ever.  Burt Lancaster and Tony Curtis shine and each one is better than the other one.
Burt Lancaster's character is probably loosely modelled after Walter Winchell. I do not remember the name but the New York Times has a piece a number of years ago about the real life character played by Tony Curtis's Sydney Falco.  I do not remember the content but he was a real press agent.
Having grown up in New York City in the 1940's and 1950's the camera work is par excellance. The shots of the exterior of the 21 club, the interior shots of the 21 club, the bar at Toot Shor's are fantastic.  On several ocassions I ate at 21 and drank at Toot Shor's and the shots are so realistic as not to be believed.
Tony Curis's performance as Sydney Falco the hungry press agent is probably his best dramatic performance.  Lancaster as the gossip columnist JJ Hunsecker is fantastic.
The plot is well known, JJ Huynsecker's young adult sister is dating a jazz musician named Dallas,
excelently played by Martin Milner(remember him-from the TV show Route 66) a relatively minor role but well played by Milner.
Falco is assigned by JJ to break up the romance which Falco tries to do by planting drugs on Dallas, then arranging a crooked cop to beat up and arrest Dallas.
Eventually Hunsecker's sister finds out about the plot hatched by her brother and Falco's complicity.  Hunsaecker's sister leaves and goes out on her own and leaves her brother wondering how things could go so wrong. He just does not get it.
As a final act of revenge Hunsecker tells his crooked cop friend that it wss Falco who planted the drugs on Dallas and the crooked cop proceeds to beat up Falco and arrest him as the movie.
Hunsecker's sister Susan Hunsecker, played by a newcome Susan Harrison shines even though hers is a relative minor role, with not much screen time.
The last scene's at Hunsecker's apartment at the top floor of the Brill Building, 1619 Broadway, has a lot of memories for me as my Uncle had an office in that building and I worked for him in the late 1950's. It was my uncle who used to take me to dine at 21 and Toots Shor's. The lobby shots at 1619 Broadway were authentic as well as the exterior shot of the building.
All the shots of New York City, 21, Toots Shor, Times Square area were fantastic and realistic.
Perhaps most interesting of all is how much the scenes changed over the years with the buiding booms after 1957. The original Toots Shor is gone, 21 is still there, glorious as ever but everything surrounding 21 is change.
All and all a great movie, great photography, and most of all great acting.