One of the best films about WWI. As one reviewer commented, it is kind of the "Twelve O'Clock High" of the First World War. That is a pretty good description. While it takes a somewhat romanticized view of the air war, it seems to capture the essence of that experience. You can't help but be moved by the scene where the pilots sing "Hurrah for the next man to die," with all of its melancholy associations. Men who will go out at dawn, and who may never come back. Many times parodied, but still effective. Flynn was at the top of his form in 1938, having made "Robin Hood," and "The Sisters" (with Bette Davis) just previous to this film. He was a much more sensitive actor than he was ever given credit for. Look at the scene where he talks to Donny (Morton Lowry, playing David Niven's younger brother), the night before a patrol, when all involved feel that Donny probably won't come back. Flynn gives him advice, in a brotherly sort of way, and it is very sensitively done. This might be partly due to director Edmund Goulding, who was good at bringing out the best in actors. But Flynn carries off the scene, as he does all the others in the film.

  Everyone knows that Flynn and Niven were good buddies offscreen, and that comes through in the picture. They play very well together. I think this is Niven's all-time best performance. He almost steals the film, except that the other players are so good, as well. His comic timing is superb, as when he meets the German pilot who shot him down. Very funny. That pilot, treated in a chivalrous manner by our lads, is well played by Carl Esmond. Credit also to Basil Rathbone, who is excellent (as always), as Commanding Officer Brand. He and Flynn cross words, not swords, here, but they are at each others' throats nevertheless. Offscreen, they reportedly liked each other, but they made such good enemies onscreen. Rathbone had been in the trenches during WWI, so he must have understood what it was all about. Kudos also to Donald Crisp, who must have been in just about every movie ever made, and great in all of them (Alan Hale was probably in all the OTHER films ever made!). Crisp always brought a reassuring sense of comfort and security to his parts, and he does that here. He is the one who keeps the commanders from going off the deep end.

  Warners should get some kind of Golden DVD award for the great way they put their classic  DVDs together. All those great extra features. My only complaint with this DVD, and with some of the other Flynn movies, is the lack of a commentary track. Warners did the tracks with the gangster and film noir sets, and it would have been nice here. They might also have included the original 1930 "Dawn Patrol," the Howard Hawks version. It isn't as smooth as this one is, having some of those early-talkie drawbacks, but it is an excellent film as well. And it has good performances from Richard Barthelmess, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Neil Hamilton. I don't think they play together as well as the stars of the newer film do, but it is still a good movie. But small complaints. This is a great DVD.

  On a historical note: The story takes place in 1915, but the planes used seem to me to be from the 1916-17 period. I'm not an expert on WWI planes, but I think that the aircraft used in 1915 were still pretty basic affairs. Other viewers who know more about this might post their comments. Again, a small complaint.

 A trivia note: When Flynn is talking to Donny, in the scene mentioned above, his character- Courtney- mentions his father, who used to be Professor of Biology at Queens College, in Belfast. This was an autobiographical note, as Flynn's own father, the distinguished Professor Theodore Flynn, held that post in reality, at the time. I guess stars could slip in things like that.