The story happened around 1900.  Cio-Cio-San was about 15 years old and in a very conservative society.  So far in the world, there were so many opera  singers who sang for Madame Butterfly, such as Kiri te Kanawa, Regine  Crespin, Mirella Freni, Montserrat Caballe, Renata Scotto, Leontyne Price,  Licia Albanese, Yasuko Hayashi, Lawrence and etc.  However, no one had  expressed so deep feeling as Ying Huang.  One great example is the aria  "Un bel di".  90% of the other singers ignored Puccini expression  notes on the musical score or didn't do as good as Ying Huang.  At the  beginning of the aria, it should be a dynamic weak (pp) to show the voice  from distance or from imagination.  In the middle of the aria, two very  important slurs noted for  "Chi sara? Chi sara?" and "Che  dira? Che dira?".  No many people did so well as Ying Huang. The whole  middle section she sang so sweet (sweet as honey); so fluent (fluent as  milk); as a beautiful dreamer for a young girl.  Many of other opera  singers showed with sorrow and pain for that section of aria.  That is not  right.  Cio-Cio-San had a wonderful dream for Pinkerton to come back to her  and she also wanted to persuade Suzuki not to be sad, therefore herself  must not be sad.  The role of Cio-Cio-San as called by Pinkerton is  "little wife" and "little perfume flower".  Many other  opera singers are just too big in physical size to play the role of an  young oriental girl with the conservative voice with so much shy.  (Even  the Japanese soprano, Yasuko Hayashi, when she played the Cio-Cio-San role,  I found that her voice is unstable especially at the weak (pp) notes, no  memtion her "big physical size" and shyless acting.)  However,  when the voice need to be strong, Ying Huang is as strong as any of the  other sopranos: such as at the end of the "Un bel di", the  dynamic goes from "f" to "ff" then "fff" and  Ying Huang did show to herself and the maid the strength and power of the  faith that Pinkerton will be back.  The whole opera is a great work.  No  wonder it is one of the three Puccini's great opera (The other two are, La  Boheme and Tosca.)
I say, it is a very very good opera and I wish that I  can own a tape.