As for fellows Deaf people like myself; if you are interested in buying this DVD. Don't! I will tell you why.

I am deaf and I was fan of the Sonic the Hedgehog for as long I can remember, I have always loved Sonic the hedgehog Comics and TV shows. Let me tell you one thing; I hated the Shout! Factory company. They are the ones  that made Mario Bros Super Show, Legend of Zelda Compete DVD. I bought Zelda Complete and Mario Bros Super Show (Made by Shout Factory) Don't be fooled! The fact Amazon says it does have Closed Captioning; It does NOT! I repeat; IT DOES NOT!!!!!!!!!!!!! I guess you can call me an Angry Sonic Fan who can't even buy Sonic DVD!! Since the DVD was made by Shout! They never even bother to put any Closed Caption or even Subtitles. I wanted one with Subtitles it would have been cool. What's is up with the Shout company? They are so old-fashioned!!! About 90% of DVD already have Closed Captioned and even Subtitles! Why not this one? What the.....???? I have own many of Animes/Cartoon DVD!  All of them have Subtitle or Closed Captioned!  As Much I love Zelda, Sonic, Mario, or even Captain NES Master Video Game DVD since they are made by Shout; I can't even buy them or enjoy them at all. I have went to the store and checked to see if they have CC of course, as you can guess; they don't. As you can see, what's the point of buying the DVD made by Shout; if you can't understand anything? I mean COME-ON! For as long I can remember When I was kid, I remember always get up early in the morning while I was waiting for the School Bus to arrive; I'd watch the Sonic the Hedgehog Satam or AOSTH Or even Mario Cartoons. It DOES have Closed Captioning on the TV! I remember I copied some of the shows off the TV.  Amazon said It has Closed Captioning for Zelda compete and Mario bros Super Show but, that was a lie! Because, it does not have one!!!!!!! How do I know??? Because, I just know! When I bought Zelda Compete and Mario Super Show DVD; oh yeah, you can bet I was angry. I am an Sonic's fan who can't even enjoy this or any of DVD made by Shout. I hope in the future they will learn to fix that mistake.