This is a review of the Blu-Ray release. Because Disney HAS made some blunders in the past regarding video releases, I had a queasy feeling when I started to read all of the negative reviews, and was worried that they may have ruined what is perhaps my favorite movie of all times.  But I couldn't NOT have the film on Blu-Ray, so I purchased it.  Throughout the 125 minutes, I had the same drop-jaw, WOW feeling that I have not experienced since I first saw the film in the theater in 1977 (and I have watched this on various video formats probably over 100 times).  Having studied Disney animation from an artistic and historical perspective for over 20 years, I consider myself to be somewhat of an "amature Disney expert".  Here are my responses to the "negative press" that this release is garnering:

The "censorship/editing" concern - OK, one character has been removed using digital scan techniques.  This caracter is "Sunflower", a black "servant" psuedo-centaur (in the "Pastoral" sequence), drawn as a crude caricature, who has roughly 10 seconds of screen time. As much study of the film as I have done, I did not even know of the character's existance until all of this "controversy" came up (I checked it out on YouTube after the fact).  I consider myself to be both a "Disney purist" and not especially "PC" - but I DO believe the decision to retain this cut (made in 1969 and not seen since) was correct. Even seen through the lens of what was "acceptable" in 1939, I found this characterization to be uncomfortably embarrassing.  Disney Studios made the wise choice.

The "re-recording" of Deems Taylor's voice concern - This actually had me more worried than the "Sunflower" issue - until I saw the video.  The simple fact is that the master audio tapes made 70 years ago have been unusable for nearly 30 years.  Previous releases of Fantasia on video have been based on the re-recorded track that had significantly abridged the original Deems Taylor introductions.  Disney was faced with the choice of either using the abridged narration with Deems' voice, or to use the original version with a modern actor "looping" the voice.  They chose the latter, which I strongly believe did a better service to restoring the film than the former would have been. The syncing is so well done that only someone who knows Deems Taylor's voice would realize that it had been dubbed. I was blown away by how much narration that I had never heard before!

Bonus features - OK, I do have to agree with some of the complaints here.  There is a vast amount of additional material that is accessable only if you have an internet-connected Blu-Ray player. I do not, and I feel somewhat cheated.  Fortunately, I have this material on a previous DVD release, but given that this is the "definitive" archival release of the film, I would have been more than happy to spend an extra ten or fifteen dollars to have this material included.  On the plus side, FINALLY having the Disney/Dali "Destino", and an excellent documentary to accompany it, does make up for the lack of previously released material.  I feel sorry for people who have only a DVD player that they cannot see this material as well. Additionally, "Fantasia 2000" has been included in the release.  Although an inferior film in almost all regards, it is still nice to have an exceptionally clean version on video.

Other observations - The picture quality is beyond amazing!  I have seen details that I never even knew were in the film, and even at only a few feet from my 35" HDTV, the image is clearer than I even remember from the theater.  This alone is reason to purchase the video. I might add that the DVD version is also a marked improvement over previous DVD releases. Likewise, the sound is as good as it has ever been.  The original Stokowsky recording has been used, with excellent stereo/surround separation, cleaned to a pristine condition.  It must be remembered that this was recorded 70 years ago (when 78rpm records were "state of the art"); listen to ANY other film from that era and you will see that they just cannot compare (although the recent Blu-Ray releases of "Snow White" and "Pinocchio" do come close).

In closing, I have to commend Disney for doing an outstanding job in bringing what is arguably the finest film ever produced by the studio to home video in a magnificent package.  Thank You!