Picking up the story from five years after the first film, a group of Troopers are cut off from extraction and make their way to a seemingly abandoned outpost to await rescue. Leaving four Troopers behind to cover their escape, they arrive to find a Colonel Dax imprisoned in an incinerator with an obvious bug battle having eradicated the rest of his men. Records state he murdered his commanding officer and the new group of Troopers initially mistrust him, but come to find he has reasons. With the arrival of the surviving group from the initial escape, those reasons seem to be re-occurring in the outpost.
Obviously, ST2 is not a kids movie-- it is kick-a** science fiction horror . True to the style seen in the original film. Lots of gore here. Bugs killing people and so on but also new even more gore stuff than in the first movie. All special effects are top-notch and two battle sequences have an epic quality to them. I do like new species of bugs - it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from Alien.
Yes you can see the movie was made on a lower budget than the first one, but it delivers anyway.
The story is similar to that one in Thing, but there are some interesting twists. Also I certainly applaud Director and Writer for attempting to send a message from a film within a genre that usually lacks subtext. This is an anti-war movie. Also it's nice to see strong characterization for the genre., it's good to see the cast is each given a personality. While we may not see each one fully fleshed out (it is an action movie, after all), we know they're there.
Because it's more horror than war-movie, some people will don't like it. I think this film is going to have about the same effect as the first one did; that is, people will either love it outright, or hate it forthwith. Personally, I loved it.
Oh - and one more thing. The cast is far better this time, than those wooden actors from the original Starship Troopers. I mean.. Richard Burgi and Kelly Carlson rule!!! I think Carlson is a star of tomorrow. She has so much presence and she's charming. She really shines in her role as seductive private Soda. (And she doesn't hesitate to show of her body too ;-) I do like that girl with pony-tail too.
Starship Troopers 2: Hero of the Federation is a strong, good movie, and it's an entertaining ride.