Wow, I had no idea so many other people were traumitized by this film when they were kids! I don't feel so alone now. My sister and I saw this film back in the early 80s and it scared the living crap out of me. I couldn't sleep for maybe 2 weeks straight after watching it. I kept thinking that damn doll was underneath my bed or opening my door. Every little noise that I heard in my room I thought was that bastard walking around my bed. UGH I never wanna go through that again! I used to hate taking baths cause of that scene where she tries to drown it in the tub and it pops it's ugly head out of the water. To this very day, I see a green old suitcase and I think of her trying to capture it in there. What I don't get is WHY on earth would she even buy such a hideous looking thing in the first place! I'd never bring such an evil looking thing like that into my living room and I would have tossed it outside the window the second I got my hands on it. The damn doll is scary enough just looking at it, when you add him running around like a maniac with that knife and making that horrible screaming sound well it's just a zillion times worse. I am 27 years old now and I have seen this movie since I was a child and I STILL find it very frightening. I try to laugh at how ridiculous the whole thing is but I can't get over my fear of it. To this day I won't watch it, I saw it on DVD the other day in a store and I nearly freaked just seeing the cover. I hope the people that made this movie know how many children and adults it has terrified over the years. Karen Black is once scary chick! She will always remind me of that movie and therefore I can never watch one of her movies again lol. We should start a Trilogy of Terror therapy group!! lol

***EDITED FOR NEW SPECIAL EDITION DVD***

I was thrilled to hear Dark Sky Films was re-releasing this tv movie on DVD. It had been very hard to find the original Anchor Bay version anywhere. Plus this one is loaded with special features! I love the commentary and featurettes. Karen Black still looks good after 30 years and I loved hearing her talk about the difficulties of working with the doll. The picture quality looks fabulous too, almost as if it were airing originally for the first time. The special effects may be cheesy and fake but it still packs a punch when it comes to it's creepiness. Using mostly stop motion animation and fast editing, the Zuni doll seems to come alive and run around like a maniac. It's still creepy no matter how ridiculously fake it looks. What makes this doll so evil compared to Chucky and other imitations is the way it looks. It's demonic looking even when it's just still in the box. It looks evil and angry and ready to kill. It cannot be reasoned with and it has a relentless pursuit to kill poor Karen Black. For me that is what makes it truly terrifying. Plus it's so damn fast! Those eery sounds it makes as it's running around with the knife are still frightening to hear, most especially towards the end when it's in the oven. Oh and that ending is still scary to watch even though you know it's coming! It's a 30 minute segment that has influenced and terrorized people for over 30 years and for that it should be commended. I'm sure they had no idea they would still be talking about it to this day. I have yet to watch the first two stories, but I'm sure they will never be as creepy as "Amelia". Nothing can top that one!