Rap music, popular for a couple of decades now, has taken a lot of heat lately, primarily due to it being interpreted as "gangsta" rap, and held responsible for breakdown in social order. The group labeled as "right-wing conservatives", however inaccurate this term may be, has been quoted as being against the "phenomenon of rap music", for the reason that such music instills debauchery, violence, lack of ambition, and disrespect for family values. 
 I viewed this film while on vacation, and the splurges in free time that accompany such endeavors instigate that new things be tried: that one entertain oneself with the unusual. The persons with me on the vacation were curious as to the content of the movie, and so with popcorn, beer, and an open mind, we sat down on a not-so-comfortable couch and concentrated our attention to what some have called "proof" of the decline of U.S. culture. 
 What we viewed was interesting, and not what we expected. But art has the habit of bringing you out of equilibrium, and this piece of art, this movie, was a pretty strong perturbation. What was observed was a character with a strong work ethic: working by day, rapping by night. A character with deep concern with his baby sister's care and well-being.  A character whose ambition to break from his routine and find something better bordered on obsession. A character who insisted on being genuine, on being honest with himself, and not masking your origins or upbringing. 
 [Are these not "family values"? Will Western civilization decay because of the practice of values like these?]
 Was he a "perfect" character? Well, no: he broke with his girlfriend when learning (or making the assumption) she was pregnant. He was violent at times, and followed the crowd without question at one point (the burning of the vacant house). He let himself be intimidated (at first) by an audience.  
 This character clearly believed in the value of a focused life: his  extreme note-taking for his eventual musical rap confrontations. A random walk through life was not going to get him where he wanted to be. Playing bingo, like his mother, and not planning...not working, was not the way. 
 The harsh language in the rap confrontations is balanced by its inventiveness, its creativity. It is actually very fun. One can get intoxicated with its free play. All discovery originates this way: the formalities come later, and these are then etched in stone, with later generations to question and possibly rebel against.