Roald Dahl is an excellent author for both children and adults, and "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" is by far his best book, although "The Witches" is a very close second. This movie adaptation of Dahl's masterpice for children is both humorous and poignant. The Jean Wilder version is superb as well, surpassing this one only because of the excellent songs. However, Burton's version has catchy songs as well which are sung by the Ompa Lompa's, and that are adapted from actual poems within Dahl's book.

Everyone should know the famous plot line of this superb story: a poverty-stricken little boy named Charlie Bucket loves chocolate and seeks to find a Golden Ticket hidden within an ordinary looking Wonka candy bar. Willy Wonka is the most famous and extraordinary candy maker in the world, and has decided to allow just five children to tour his famous factory. Four of the children, Agustus Gloop, Violet Bauregarde, Veruca Salt, and Mike Teavee are obnoxious and overly indulged by their equally despicable parents. Only Charlie is virtuous and truly deserving of finding a Golden Ticket. What will happen when each child succumbs to their own greed and disobey Willy Wonka's orders? The story is both fun and moralistic.

Burton's adaptation is very true to Dahl's book, and includes scenes which are not in the original movie, but are in the novel. For instance, the stories told by Grandpa Joe to Charlie are included, and the sceen about Veruca Salt has squirrels instead of geese, which are the appropriate animals. Also, Charlie Bucket is from England, which is true in the book as well. Burton  adds an interesting touch by relating sceens from Wonka's childhood about the strained relationship between him and his dentist father who forbids his son to consume candy or to pursue his dream of becoming a chocolateer. These sceens are very poignant, and emphasise the importance of family over riches and success.

All of the actors are very good, particularly Johnny Dep, and the man playing the Ompa Lompas. The boy portraying Charlie, who was also in "Finding Neverland" is excellent. This movie is very good and well worth watching. As a chocoholic, I recommend having plenty of candy bars on hand. You will get very hungry for sweets after watching this film. Happy viewing!