I love this movie like cake! Okay, yes, there's an extremely high body count, and a few moments that make me really uncomfortable, but those moments are all by the villain, who is so villainous that at least I can be fairly sure we're not supposed to think what he's doing is behavior to be emulated, so there's that.

I've seen some critics complain that the plot is familiar, and it is, but you know what? So are most plots. What matters is execution, and the execution in this film is terrific! The cast is wonderful, everyone has a great sense of comedic timing and is equally great at the subtle or dramatic moments as needed, and there's great chemistry among them. They're also all extremely easy on the eyes -- a definite bonus. The characters are interesting and fun, the dialog is snappy, and there are some surprisingly poignant moments. Zoe Saldana's character is absolutely awesome, especially in that -- unlike in so many movies of this type -- she's not just the love interest, and her motivations are entirely independent. The characters of the Losers themselves fit together like pieces of a terrific puzzle, and the little moments between them and among them really make them believable as a team who's been together through a LOT, which is one of the things I love most.

This is a great action/comedy/drama that is both really satisfying and makes you want more. I've cut way back on my DVD-buying since Netflix, but this is one I had to have! I've watched it many times, and will watch it many more. A+++, would buy again!

If you want to see more of what you'd be getting, you can probably find some clips on YouTube. Be wary of spoilers, though -- especially in the clip about how Jensen forgot his gun. That one contains a HUGE spoiler, so avoid it if possible.

The special features on the Blu-Ray disc are also great. The regular DVD only has one, which is also on the Blu-Ray disc, and is itself a very good feature, but if you like special features and have a Blu-Ray player or have been thinking about getting one, I recommend the Blu-Ray version. And let's face it, more and more releases are going to do this to us, where you can only get the really robust special features on the Blu-Ray. I bought a Playstation 3 so I could watch these and I don't regret it.

Of course, Dragon Age: Origins has eaten my life, because I got that for the PS3 not really thinking I'd play it much.... *eye-dart*