For the 1995 documentary Crumb, famed underground comic artist Robert Crumb gave then unknown director Terry Zwigoff unrestricted and intimate access into his personal life. What resulted is an awkwardly funny yet sad portrait of an artist, a documentary hailed by critics upon its release - most notably Roger Ebert - yet ignored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences during award season. As with most biographical documentaries where the subject is present at filming, Crumb familiarizes the viewer with the comic artist. Zwigoff films Crumb at a lecture as he presents the art for which he is most recognized: the "Keep On Truckin'" comic panel, his Fritz the Cat comic book, and his cover artwork for the Big Brother and the Holding Company album Cheap Thrills. Zwigoff, with Crumb as his guide, gives a quick rundown of his career as a comic artist, one whose work is instantly recognized even though the man behind it is not. This is all presented in a straightforward manner. But just as the film veers close to becoming flat, Zwigoff introduces Crumb's family. Zwigoff's introduction of brother Maxon and Charles, along with their mother Beatrice, adds an extra dimension to the film. Here, the documentary becomes a character study of sorts, presenting three siblings who dealt with the same traumatic childhood in different manners. With a controlling and abusive father and a mother harboring an amphetamine addiction at home and bullying at school, the three Crumb boys found an escape through fantasy-adventure films and comic books. Their outlet became their art, each Crumb brother becoming proficient in his own right. Yet that internal emotional suffering affected each brother differently. Charles, perhaps the most talented of the three, developed a fascination with child actor Bobby Driscoll that is suggested is pedophilic in nature. Unable to cope with personal demons, Charles stopped his art, becoming instead a depressive recluse straddled to medication allowing him to get by each day. Maxon developed seizures, moving out when he reached adulthood, half his days spent as a transient. And, of course, Crumb used his art as an outlet for his frustrations and fears, avoiding the sad life that engulfed his other brothers. In presenting their outcomes, Zwigoff subtly parallels each man's sexual proclivities to his art. Charles lost his sexual drive around the same time he stopped drawing. Maxon admits to molesting adult women, following them around and groping or removing their articles of clothing. That behavior is sporadic, much like his painting. Crumb's exaggeratedly sexual comics served as an outlet for his desires. These behaviors, Zwigoff suggests, surfaced during the childhood. The question of whether the boys experienced a healthy sexual upbringing hangs on the precipice of the documentary, never directly answered.Crumb's conclusion is unsatisfactory. It isn't that Zwigoff provides the viewer with some sort of closure; he does. Rather, the film raises more questions about the Crumb family than it can answer. With Robert Crumb's comics, each turned page results in a shock or giggle, demanding more of his art to better understand the artist. Zwigoff's fascinating yet slightly depressing film works much the same way