First something positive.  I am a huge Rod Serling fan, and even if I do dislike Charlton Heston as a human being, I love Planet of the Apes.  That is to say that I love the original one.  It was very well written with Serling and blacklisted screenwriter Micheal Wilson on the bill.  The messages and ideas swirl through out questioning the existence of God, playing up the conflict of science vs. religion, looking at the treatment of animals, examining control and censorship and in the end leaving us with a very memorable message about mankind.  The acting is great, and it is quite simply a very solid well done film.  There should have never been another.  Hollywood execs like sticking with a sure thing, so if a movie does good, the answer is to make a sequel.  If the sequel does good, then make another.  Anyway they should have stopped with the original.  The second one was alright.  The message about the human race destroying the planet was good even if it was a little heavy handed.  There's just no reason for it to have been made.  Everything they did in that movie could have been done and has been done better else where(Dr. Strangelove off the top of my head).  That would be the last nice thing I could say about the series.  The third one ranks up there with one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  They took Rod Serling's original concept and butchered it to no end with a need for a clever twist that stopped being clever after the first one.  The monkeys come back to(gasp!)modern times, and they are treated like animals.  This would have made a bad made for TV movie.  Along side of some terrible acting and trite dialogue they give one of the worst explainations possible for how the monkeys evolved.  This aggrivated me about as much as George Lucas scientifically explaining the force in Episode I.  It made a great story and a great allegory in the first one.  There is no need to analyze how the monkeys got that way.  For one they try and do this with a logical argument when no logical argument could support it.  For two they precede in giving the most ridiculous explaination I could conceive of.  How does that explain how the humans devolved?  I am certainly not a realist, and am in fact a hug fan of absurdism.  The first one wasn't realistic and it still is a great film.  My problem was with inserting an explaination at all and then upon doing it treating a horribly written one as if it was intellectual discourse. Anyway I really wanted to rant about that, because it really bugged me.  I came here to see that everyone treated all five films as if they were cinematic gold.  I wanted to write a review for anyone out there who has intelligence and is wondering weather or not to buy this set.  Perhaps you liked the first one and you assume by all the good reviews the others must be as good.  The second one is adequate, the third is horrible and the last two are not even worth the time to pick them apart.  The writing and acting take a sudden noise dive into Ed Wood territory.  And I don't mean funny Ed Wood like Plan 9, more like Glen or Glenda, terrible and boring.  This set gets two stars because the first one is an amazing film which I would recommend to anyone.  Rent the second one to see if you like it before buying it, and don't waste any amount of money on the rest.  I am certain TNT will replay those movies at some point.  But I am afraid that there will be no way to get those six hours of your life back.