Apart from the credits going to director Ed Zwick and to screenplay writer Patrick Duncan who successfully managed to apply the "Rashomon" technique into a dramatic (and controversial) depiction of war, the fine performance of a strong cast really added up to make "Courage Under Fire" a worthwhile place in every movie buff's library. Many reviewers have recognized Denzel Washington's great job as a tortured soldier struggling to find the truth that might help him put down an unbearable burden, but it was Meg Ryan who actually amazed me. After watching this movie for the fourth time or so I finally figured out why I adored her so much in a role that she didn't originally seem to show her best at. Putting aside her culminating, undeniable success in a streak of romantic comedies, I remember having seen her in just a few dramas like "Top Gun", "The Presidio", "The Doors", "When a man loves a woman", "Proof of life"..., and (no offense to Ryan fans) she never gave a creditable performance in any of them. But somehow, she truly shone in this unexpected role of a female commanding officer under fire. I've been wondering... what if the role were given to Sigourney Weaver... or to Linda Hamilton...? Well, the portrayal might have been "tougher" and the war scenes much more exciting, but I'm sure the movie wouldn't have given me this strange kind of emotion... Then I realized something. Meg Ryan looked so fragile, so vulnerable as Captain Karen Walden when she faced a critical situation that required all deadliest decisions in a matter of seconds. And as fragile as she looked, she ended up handling it in the most valorous way a person could do. Only Ryan's natural "cuteness" and vulnerability could render the image of Karen Walden such candor, credibility and merit. That image has impressed me quite a lot and strengthened my admiration towards all servicewomen who go out there serving the country, women who are ready to sacrifice their lives, not for a Medal of Honor or anything, but for a good cause they chose. Remember how Denzel Washington as Lt. Col. Serling corrected a White House P.R. agent when that guy mentioned the Medal of Honor?. "They don't WIN it. They receive it. It's not a contest". Those lines wrapped up the whole plot and defined the real quality of this 5-star movie.