As one would expect of a Criterion release, the DVD of "Time Bandits" is an absolute pleasure, from the clean film transfer to the many delightful added features.
The production scrapbook is a treasure,  along with the commentary by Gilliam and Palin.  These features truly  enrich one's appreciation for the film; not only do they lavish praise on  the actors playing the "dwarves" (who, in retrospect, did nothing  less than a heroic job), but also reveal many of the clever tricks that  allowed them to create such a sumptuously beautiful film for the cost of  Speilberg's monthly catering bill.  Compare this film to expensive clunkers  like "Tron" (which came out a year later!) to appreciate the  extent of Gilliam's craft. Cleese's description of his day's work is  howlingly funny, and David Warner is generous and wryly amusing.  The  now-grown Craig Warnock is not particularly eloquent, however, and it's  hard to tell if he's joking about the film scarring him  psychologically!
The trailer is simply awful, after a promising start,  but it's indicative of AVCO's cluelessness about how to market such a fresh  and original film.  They tried to pass it off as Python style comedy, safe  for kiddies and fun for grow-ups.  In fact, it's nothing of the kind - it's  a dangerous and rigorous film that one may wish to keep out of the hands of  small children.  
Despite it's vague resemblance to "The Wizard of  Oz" told upside down (or inside out?), "Time Bandits" is not  a typical (modern) children's film.  It has an old-fashioned Grimm-ness,  with creatures dying nasty, sweaty deaths and even "good"  characters behaving quite badly at times.  In short, it is more utterly  honest than any fantasy film made since Disney bowdlerized "Snow  White."
Understanding that young people like to be frightened, and  taking peculiar delight in how "awful" his band of dwarf thieves  are, Gilliam places a very real boy (so real, he's almost dull) in an  amazing series of situations, exposing him to terrible ordeals with only a  shifty gang of unreliable and occasionally stupid companions to guide and  protect him - though mostly they ignore him or egg him on to be more like  them (being dwarves, he towers over them, both physically and morally).  At  the very moment he feels he's found the right place to be, they tear him  away with no regard for his wishes or feelings, and ultimately thrust him  into conflict with forces neither he nor they can comprehend, let alone  master.
Sounds a bit like growing up, doesn't it?
Along the way,  Gilliam tweaks various legendary Great and Powerful Figures (Napoleon,  Agamemnon, Robin Hood - even Satan [referred to exclusively as "The  Evil Genius"]), not to mention technology and consumerism, to reveal  the narrow-minded, clumsy, grasping people we grown-ups really are. 
The  ending remains controversial, although I can remember seeing it in my late  teens and feeling utterly liberated by it (what teenage boy doesn't want  his parents to evaporate, at least once in a while?).  There's more honesty  and meaning in the last five minutes than any patently false "happy  ending" could hope to achieve, although young children conditioned to  expect Pocahontas to live happily ever after with John Smith (which, of  course, she didn't) may find it too disturbing.
"Time Bandits"  is a triumphant use of fantasy to articulate truth, of the power of the  imagination to find the reality hidden in plain sight (the figures in the  final conflict can all be found in the boy's room in the early scenes).  It's an unforgettable film, with images and characters that will stay with  you for a lifetime, even if you aren't an impressionable, disaffected,  precocious brat (like I was when I first saw it), but especially if you  are!