"You can't take it with you," I've heard said. It's true: one cannot take it with one. When I heard this line (not in Superman III), I began to reflect in a way that I had never reflected before. When one dies--I mean, really dies--what does he carry from this life into the next? Not one's material objects, they are fleeting. One's memories? I hope so, because if I can't bring my film prints (material objects), and I can't bring my memories, then how will I bring Superman III to the afterworld? (I do not know what kind of afterworld there is, or if there is one at all, although I believe that there is.) If there was one thing in this non-permanent world that I could bring over into eternity, it would be Superman III. This is absolutely true. The only reason I'm alive right now is because of Superman III--what else is there in this world of suffering and tragedy? And yet, I am frightened by death. I am afraid of death because I don't know if there will be Superman III on The Other Side. Yes, horrible, terrible things have happened to me, and horrible, terrible things await me, and yet every day I am "in joy" (to quote Jim Perry) because Superman III is out there, and I know it so thoroughly, it's in my memory, I know every line, every shot, every gesture (and yet, still yet, there is always more to be discovered!), it is with me interminably, and it makes death frightening. I don't think that there is cinema in the other world, which is very, very depressing. I don't even want to talk about how sad it is. I weep, nightly. This movie was made by "life-affirm[er]" Richard Lester ("The Beatles A Hard Day's Night," "The Beatles Help!"), and it really stands above anything else out there. The comedy is very, VERY spot-on, with Richard Pryor doing his funny-man routine...it is very, very righteous, but it is also a classic character, a man who fights with his morality (good vs. evil), and comes out on top (he turns out good)! He is the quintessiantal human character, "Odyssey-esque" (as old Cock used to say), an everyman for today. Superman (who is superhuman) also fights the ultimate--I would even say PENultimate (best ever) good vs. evil scene...he fights with himself..........Literally! Clark Kent fights with his evil impulses, personified as Superman with a slight stubble (this technically dazzling scene was accomplished with the use of split-screen technology and stand-ins, who look VERY convincing), and comes out on top--barely! I can't get enough of it. Also, there is a pretty girl in this film (can you guess who?). Thanks to the Warner Brothers for putting this one out on DVD, why did it take so long!!!! The Warner Brothers really care about their customers, and that's what sets them apart. My only complaint is that Lois Lane doesn't get enough screen time in this movie, perhaps as a result of M. Kidder's condition.