Other comedies might be funnier, but few compare to the nearly perfect total ensemble performance turned in by the principals, supporting and bit characters in Blake Edwards's Victor Victoria.

Julie Andrews plays Victoria, a down and out singer in gay Paris, circa 1934, who, with Toddy, dreams up a nightclub act in which Andrews feigns a male in drag to become the toast of Paris. Robert Preston's portrayal of the flamboyant gay veteran of the stage, Toddy, is perfect, sometimes cliche, but never over the top. James Garner plays King Marchand, a Chicago nightclub owner, who is taken by Victoria -- until she reveals she is a man -- but he isn't totally taken in by the ruse and so sets out to prove, as much for his own male ego as for the romantic spark he feels for Victoria, that the "he" Victor portrays is really a "she." Garner's expressions throughout the film are hilarious -- first when Victoria reveals, onstage, that she is Victor, a male drag queen, later as he watches, concealed in a closet, as Victoria strips for a bath and he realizes he was right all along, and later when his bodyguard, Squash (played Alex Karras), comes out of the closet.

It's clear that the three principals, Andrews, Preston and Garner, had the time of their lives in this movie. Garner and Andrews's shared scenes are all noteworthy, particularly their bedroom scene as they discuss the sexual identity confusions that are sure to result from his being seen in public with a male drag queen.

Andrews, Preston and Lesley Ann Warren, as Garner's annoying moll, were all nominated for Oscars, as was Henry Mancini's musical score.

Musical highlights include "Le Jazz Hot" (which tests even Andrews's vocal range); "Gay Paree" (Preston); "You and Me" (an Andrews/Preston duet that is sheer brilliance in its improvised presentation); and my favorite, the haunting "Crazy World," the lyrics made poignant by Andrews's vocal-cord surgery in 1997.

Everything conspires to make this one of the best musical comedies ever filmed -- the cast, the score, the script (clearly a Blake Edwards creation, with a touch of Pink Panther slapstick subtly interspersed here and there), the costumes, the period automobiles, even the set (it's interesting to note that the entire movie was shot in a studio -- even the street sequences of 1934 Paris).

Highly enjoyable and listenable, a delightful view.