"Do The Right Thing" was written, produced, and directed by Spike Lee who also stars as the movie's main character, Mookie. The film is set in 1989 on the hottest day of the summer on a block in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn. Most of the action occurs around Sal's Pizzeria. Sal's Pizzeria is an Italian-American "pizza joint" that has been thriving in this predominantly African-American neighborhood for over 25 years. The "pizza joint"is run by Sal with help from his two sons Pino and Vito. Mookie works as the restaurant's delivery boy.
 The movie highlights and is a study of the daily lives of the neighborhoods various inhabitants. It addresses predominant racial prejudices and stereotypes while tracking the inhabitants' survival. One way that this is shown is through the businesses that exist and thrive off of the neighborhood. Businesses such as Sal's as well as a Korean owned store thrive off of and take money out of the community, while African-American owned stores are rarely found. The lack of African-American representation in the community's businesses soon becomes an issue as a character by the name of Buggin' Out questions Sal for only having Italian-Americans on the wall in his restaurant, but no African-Americans, the race that is essentially supporting him and putting money in his pocket. Sal shrugs him off telling him that it is his restaurant therefore he can do whatever he wants. As a result, Buggin' Out decides to organize a boycott and enlists the help of Radio Raheem, who is like the neighborhood's "jukebox." Radio Raheem constantly walks around with his huge radio as he blasts Public Enemy's hit song "Fight the Power", the power being white supremacy. Though he may seem obnoxious to some, Radio Raheem is a strong and vital character as he is a representation of someone trying to rise above his current state of opression and speak out. However, he is never afforded the opportunity to truly do so because he is choked to death by a white police offer after an altercation between he and Sal ensues. Radio Raheem's death devastates the neighborhood and causes the citizens to riot and burn down Sal's Pizzeria.
 Throughout the movie, we see various types of racial prejudice all of which never truly die, but are rather pushed under the surface and ignored. Pino even expresses to Sal that Mookie can't be trusted because he's black. Radio Raheem's death at the hands of a white police officer symbolizes how the black community, as well as other prejudice stricken communities feel when they try to speak out, they are afraid, afraid that "tha man" will silence them for good. Spike Lee does a great job of showing the injustices that existed at that time and that still exist today. If we refuse to educate ourselves as a nation and ignore these issues then we too are to blame, for ignorance is not bliss, and by being ignorant, we are helping to perpetuate the very issue in which we are trying to diminish.