I watched this entire 7-part series when broadcast on PBS, prior to placing an advance order for the product. I knew what I was getting before hand ... or so I thought.
I don't know who is responsible for the packaging of this product. These seven VHS tapes DO NOT have volume numbers, but the series does have a particular order that the tapes should be viewed. The trailer on each tape refers to the subject matter of the next tape to be viewed, but not to the NAME of that tape!
Worse yet, the "boxed set" is not what you expect. All seven of these tapes come inside a disposable, thin, flimsy cardboard box ... one that (over time) will be unsuitable for storage. I threw it away upon receipt (and manually numbered the tapes!).
If you want to watch these tapes in the proper order, they SHOULD HAVE BEEN assigned numbers as follows:
Tape #1: Darwin's Dangerous Idea
Tape #2: Great Transformations
Tape #3: Extinction!
Tape #4: The Evolutionary Arms Race
Tape #5: Why Sex?
Tape #6: The Mind's Big Bang
Tape #7: What About God?
I will not waste much space here debating the philosophical or religious issues associated with this series, as those issues are basically emotional concerns (of the individual). The whole problem with the "theory of evolution" ... is that ... if you want to believe in some kind of afterlife, then somewhere in time "God" had to install a soul into one or more bodies.
This means that at some point in time, the child had a soul but the parent did not. At that same point in time, the parent would cease to exist upon death (just like every other living thing on this planet) but the child would continue onward "in spirit" after death (minus the body, of course).
Nobody wants to believe:
(1) that they didn't exist before conception; and
(2) that they will cease to exist after death.
Personally, I'm not too crazy about the idea myself. However, I must respect the universal nature of death - and I don't believe that what I choose to believe is going to change the ultimate outcome in any way. However, it is our beliefs that give meaning to our lives.
With that said, I would recommend that you just choose to believe whatever serves to make your life meaningful to you - and don't waste time debating the issue with anyone else. The Universe doesn't really give a damn what anyone chooses to believe. No matter what you choose to believe (whether it be based in science or religion) you will be proven significantly in error 100 years from now. For example, what do YOU think about some of the beliefs, practices and customs that people held 100 years ago?
I rest my case ;-)
Just try to do the best with what you know. You can believe anything you want, for whatever reasons suit you. As someone once said: "I've given up my search for Truth ... and am presently looking for a really good Fantasy!"
WITH RESPECT TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF EVOLUTION, THIS IS BY FAR THE BEST PRESENTATION THAT I HAVE SEEN.
In the section "The Mind's Big Bang" ... I wished they would have devoted a bit of time to explaining the general process by which each organism with a nervous system creates its own "virtual reality" universe -- an internal model of the external world (its niche in the ecosystem). These models are built from a combination of both the genetic inheritance AND the sensory inputs of the organism, and thus are limited by BOTH the nature of those senses and the genetic heritage.
That "internal virtual reality universe" ONLY has to account for the external factors that impact daily living and survival. For example, a fish has no need to understand anything about mountains. A bird doesn't need to know anything about the ocean bottom.  Neither needs to know anything about the moons of Jupiter, etc.  When an organism dies, its "internal universe" (the only one it knows) ceases to exist.
Each organism's small internal "virtual reality" model of its world (its known universe) is but an insignificantly small subset of the much larger external environment (the biosphere containing its ecosystem). Other things being equal, a more complete or accurate internal model will provide a selective advantage for survival over less complete models. This, in part, is what drives the development of brains and nervous systems and sensory organs.
As you go "up" the evolutionary chain, those models become more complex and comprehensive. The social and cultural forces driving the complexities and depth of the "virtual reality" models created by the human brain are barely explored.
As the scientific method continues to reveal that which was previously unknown or misunderstood, our model of the "real" universe (whatever THAT is) becomes progressively more accurate. Any group who tries to hold on to a "static internal model" will have problems "evolving" their belief system to account for new discoveries, and for deeper understandings of what may be already known.
The one-hour "What About God" tape merely explores how a certain group (in this case, Conservative Christians) tries to maintain their particular flavor of "virtual reality" in the face of constantly expanding knowledge that appears to conflict with their relatively static internal models. With respect to the ever-expanding base of knowledge, it is like a teenager trying to fit into the shoes or clothes that were worn at age five. I understand that a large part of the Western World audience for which this program is targeted is of Christian background ... however ...
... I would have preferred that the "What About God" hour long episode have been focused upon more important objectives OTHER THAN trying to change the thinking of those who hold to a belief system that makes little sense in today's "real world" science, technology and medicine. Why did we not spend an hour trying to "convert" the thinking of Muslims, Hindus, Jews, etc. ??
Also not significantly discussed in this series is the role that various pre-human tribes and bands had in wiping each other out (i.e., the strongest, smartest and best organized survive). This was a key element in the human evolution process. There is a lot to be said for killing off your dumb neighbors and taking over their resources! Recorded history is filled with examples! While this may not sit square with current norms and expectations, it was one of the driving forces that got us to where we are today. It is but one of the ways that natural selection improves the gene pool.
In all cultures and societies (far back into pre-history) the human internal models of the universe (as we imagine it to be) are the most complex and varied in this biosphere. But it may only be the first step.
Genetic engineering (a topic largely untouched by this series) will provide the next steps, and will do so in timeframes measured in years -- not millenniums. This series could have used another one-hour tape just to explore the "future" of human self-evolution. Maybe that wasn't in the budget! Someone obviously considered it more important to address the concerns of the bible toting Conservative Christian audience ;-)
In closing, had the marketing department numbered the tapes ... and given you a sturdy cardboard box to hold them ... I would have awarded them 5 stars.