I did not see the original `Body Snatchers' nor read the book. After seeing this movie, I don't think I would want to. I expected this movie to be scary, suspenseful, and gripping. It wasn't.

I did not like the editing at all. The scenes were cut too fast, moving from one shot to another at a dizzying speed.

I didn't like the beginning of the movie when the Space Shuttle burns on entry and is destroyed. This scene should have been much longer. We should have seen how the alien parasite clung itself to the shuttle. Was it the reason why the shuttle crashed? We should also have seen the crew struggling to fly the Space Shuttle.

Once the Shuttle crashed, the scenes rushed way too fast from identifying the parasite to it infecting people. I just felt the whole movie was rushed.

Seeing Nicole Kidman run away from something at the beginning of the movie just didn't make since. The editor was trying to show us an event in the future to keep us guessing, but this didn't work. The movie should have flowed in a linear manner, not jump from a future event to a present one. This was repeated in several other scenes, and I found this to be very annoying.

The disease is passed by people throwing up. I found this pretty repulsive, especially in the subway scene. Kidman's husband also throws up on her face, yet we see her in the following scene with a clean face and no stains on her shirt--very unbelievable. And what about the stench of the vomit? Kidman then meets up with researchers and eventually with her son--without having taken a bath. Didn't her husband just puke on her? Did no one smell her?

The helicopter scene at the end of the movie was not well done. You could tell it was animation.

Daniel Craig did not do a good job at all. He was more of a supporting actor than a principal one.

At no point throughout this movie did I find myself glued to my seat. There was no suspense; nothing really exciting happening.

The fact that they found a cure so quickly was also unbelievable. We are also not shown the steps taken to find the cure--was way too rushed.
I didn't like the cover design of the DVD either.

The only thing I liked about this movie are the following questions, "what would life be like without humans? If a disease turned us into non-violent people, but unproductive, would that be good or bad? Is life better the way it is, with free-will, or one without free-will and without wars? The philosophy behind the movie is great. The movie itself is mediocre.