When I found out Denzel Washington starred in this movie, I knew I just had to see it as he is by far my favorite actor.
A touching but funny movie about a man who has a kid with a heart growing larger than it should. During a baseball game, his kid collapses and they quickly take him to hospital. Little does John. Q know what lies ahead when they take his kid to the hospital. First off they would have to pay $10,000 for his son to get an operation and what makes matters worse is that they don't have the kind of money nor do they have insurance so really they're lying the lane of death for their son.
The first half of the movie is so powerful and emotional as matters gets saddening. It really would be the pits to have your son dying and you don't have the money to get him or her to get the only chance to save him or her. But the most unexpected thing comes to place after the movie moves on.
John. Q decides to hold the hospital and the people in it hostage until he gets what he wants -- the operation for his kids. For hours and hours, police try to figure a way to get into the hospital and surround him but John. Q always has something for them. As time goes by, the hostages begin to know John. Q a little better and soon begin to like him. It becomes funny when John. Q lets a woman out and she gets interviewed by a reporter. She tells the reporter that John. Q is a nice guy and wished she was back in there as a hostage!
In the end, you'll find out that John. Q is about to give up his life for his son's but is luckily saved by his wife when the people decide to give Q's son the operation. After his son is fixed finally, John. Q would have to go to prison for holding the people inside the hospital hostage. This movie is such a great film because it stars Denzel Washington. You'll always know that any movie with Denzel Washington in it will be great because he puts so much effort into the movies he stars in. John Q is a sad but funny movie. If you like Denzel Washington's movies, then watch 'Training Day', 'Remember the Titans' or 'Hurricane'. They are all fantastic! THANKS DENZEL FOR MAKING THE BEST MOVIES!!!
One love
-Junkyard Dog