Like most other Spice Girls fans of the time, I saw this at the movies. I was only 11. I'm 16 now, and I still like to watch this film from time to time. I still have a laugh at some of the scenes, and I've seen it so many times I can recite the lines along with the girls!
I look at the bad reviews of the movie, and wonder how many people have actually WATCHED the movie? Did they just give it one star because they hate the Spice Girls? I think that was probably the case for most reviewers. Congratulations to the people who gave it 4 or 5 star reviews - you're not ashamed to admit you liked the movie! I also liked it. The Spice Girls may not be popular anymore or what you'd call the latest thing, but they were a fantastic girl band. I bet nearly everyone had at least one song they liked from the girls.
But anyway, onto the movie itself. It's damn hilarious! I don't know how so many people didn't think it was funny! I think it's amusing now, and it's been 6 years since it came out in the theatres. The storyline is a bit thin, I have to admit, but the jokes are funny, not cheesy. I especially like the bit where Geri and Mel B are playing chess and Mel B doesn't understand the rules and Geri says she's gonna slap her. Also another funny bit is the part where Victoria says she doesn't know what to wear, and Mel C muses over whether Victoria should wear the "little Gucci dress, the little Gucci dress OR the little Gucci dress" as Mel C says. Then Emma chimes in "I think you should wear the little Gucci dress!". I like the part near the end where the two movie directors are telling the story to Clifford and everything is happening to the girls.
The cheesy parts of the movie include the aliens and the part on the boat. The most dramatic part of the film is the bit where the Spice Girls are having a fight with Clifford and they all storm off.
The movie begins with a Top Of The Pops version of "Too Much" and ends with a fantastic performance of "Spice Up Your Life". The rest of the Spiceworld album is played during the movie.
My favourite Spice Girl is Emma, and she had some funny lines during the movie.
Overall, Spiceworld is a funny movie that doesn't deserve all the negative reviews.