Late last night I turned off the lights, layed in my bed, got comfortable, and took in one of my favorite films of all time, Hiroshima Mon Amour. I had seen the film before, and acknowledged its beauty, both visual and lyrical, but last night I really payed close attention, watched carefully, listened carefully, and really took this monumental film in. Now can I say that I have a better understanding of the film? No. In fact, I now have more questions than before. Upon first seeing this film, you will probably be in awe of the beauty of it all. The camera work is STUNNING, the score is one of the greatest ever written for film, and the dialogue is sheer poetry. Mysterious poetry. You'll find yourself wanting to know more about the film, for there are just so many unanswered questions. I could write for hours and hours and waste you wonderful readers' time about what I took from this short (90 minute) masterpiece, but I won't. I will however, tell what I think the point of it all was...........
The point was to show the importance of memory, and of forgetting. When you see the incredible and powerful opening documentary montage on Hiroshima, you will think "why do we forget this?". Such a disasterous and enormous event has all but faded from our memories really. Thus Hiroshima is the perfect setting for this film, about two lovers, a French actress and Japanese (very French Japanese i might add, haha) who have a fling. The man wants the woman to stay, he is scared he'll forget about her if she leaves. The woman begins to open up about her tragic past in Nevers, France, a place she would love to forget, but cannot. This theme is carried through the entire film, through to the last scene in a hotel, where the woman breaks down and cries "I'll forget you in a few years, I know I will!" Thus they give eachother names, for they havent had names up to this point, Hiroshima and Nevers. Two places that they will NEVER forget, and hopefully will associate with their lover. 
This film is brilliant, beautiful, and DEEP. certainly not for every taste. It really makes one question why we forget things, and why we should remember things.
I have not even BEGUN to tell about this film, you must see it for yourself. it truly is remarkable.