With a name like, "Wilbur Wants To Kill Himself," one anticipates an odd movie with a dark sensibility - and it is just that - but it's also a warm, touching movie with an inviting sensibility.  The protagonists of WWTKH inhabit a rarified, almost surreal world, but thanks to exceptional acting and direction by Lone Scherfig, who also co-wrote the screenplay, we don't need to be "sold" on it, we simply sink into it like a comfy, overstuffed armchair.

The atmosphere of WWTKH is steeped in melancholy that's prototypically Scottish.  Two brothers, Wilbur and Harbour, live is Glasgow, Harbour manages a bookstore left to him by his father.  Though perhaps grand once, it now seems to subsist, barely, on the patronage of one customer who resolutely attempts to purchase works by Kipling.  These brothers have an achingly sad past, both of their parents died in ways certain to leave deep psychic scars.  However, in true Scots fashion, they never discuss the emotional trauma that directs their lives and undermines their tepid attempts at finding happiness.

Wilbur does indeed try to kill himself, several times.  For him, ending it all is somewhere between an avocation and a hobby, so much so that the local suicide support group kicks him out.  The dynamic between the brothers is drawn, Wilbur is a sad loser - Harbour is resilient and strong - an endlessly forgiving and loving caretaker.  Into this odd dynamic strolls another casualty of the storm, Alice, and her enchanting daughter.  Before long Alice and Harbour are married, and it would seem that this newfound stability might have a positive effect on Wilbur as well - creating a safe, extended family.

I won't go beyond this.  WWTKH is not a film of shocking plot twists, but it has its surprises and you should be allowed to enjoy them as they unfold.  At times I had the feeling of watching people who had survived a shipwreck, bobbing on the water, desperately clutching at flotsam and jetsam.  I found it virtually impossible to judge any of them, not even Wilbur, whose obsession with suicide at times seemed a bit narcissistic.  Most likely it is the director's hand that accounts for this, the extreme gentility of this movie.  There is perhaps a little bit of Dear, Frankie here, another "small movie" set in Scotland that touches the heart.

Many splendid secondary characters, notably the German doctor - completely believable, and the nurse with eyes for Wilbur.  Truly a wonderful and obscure gem worth tracking down.