After see this film i could easily say without a doubt
i was never more scared by a movie in my life.

I think mixed opinion is made on this movie
however i am writing to clarify a few misconceptions so many people made that possibly made them think the film was terrible

1. This was NOT A HORROR FILM
it was never categorized as one and did not need special effects or gore, the film was if you need to categorize it
more so a mockumentary of sorts
as the characters are regular people just like you or i
they werent going to save the world or battle some undead zombie
because it was supposed to feel like they were regular people
and i very much doubt in alot of your own lives you battle zombies and save the world each day.

2.They intentionaly didnt have a script
this is something i see alot of people complainig about how there wasnt a seemingly made script, and the director said so himself he didnt want one
reasons being
that, for 1, while this film was originaly made just for a low budget film festival, the success of it plotted it to be taken to big time theaters, hence the kids had no idea this would be seen worlwide and become what is it today
also, not having a script works better at believing the characters are more realistic and seemingly are just a couple who moved into a new home, just like many of us are and do these days.

they were made to resemble people just like us
not super heroes
the entire point and concept of the film was to make you believe you werent watching a film, but more so a recording a couple made of events in their home, that they had no intention of showing the whole world to.
or just like if you or your own friends went ghost hunting and filmed your experiences.

3.Childhood fears
a huge misconception in this film is that this is supposed to be some over the top special effects monster that walks into the house and jsut causes hell. No that was never the case, in fact the director
if you look on wikipedia has said that he wanted to make a film
about the childhood fears all of us have had about
the dark
creaking sounds in the night you hear when it is really late and everyone else is asleep

and all the images our imaginations ran with as a child of what is hiding in our closet, under our bed or in the dark in general

4. what happens when you are asleep
fact is NOBODY KNOWS despite what you say
no one really does know
this film is taking the camera and making you see everything that could happen when you are asleep and esentialy making you believe that all the stuff you feared as a kid in the dark
is indeed very REAL

5.Its all in what you believe spiritualy
many people on here are saying the characters are stupid
and didnt get help if all that stuff was happening
well fact is the psychic said so himself that no matter where the girl goes it will follow her. This film can be put in the category of similar films like the exorcist or the exorcism of emily rose
as it is dealing with spiritual forces we can not see
can not fight with our fists and most of all cant just not believe they are there, i think until either creationism or evolution is finaly considered to be the one true theory, then the world will never trully know of what lies beyond this world, i believe there are spirits in the world, some good some bad, we cant choose which ones pick us much like the fate of the girl katie in the film.

so basicaly if you are an athiest who doesnt believe in any afterlife or spiritual forms then you probably will find this movie a bore.

6. Let down your guard of " i know how this is done" and view the film with the openness and wonder you had as a child

Yes obvioulsy this was just a film and mika and katie are on ET cover now, but thats beside the point the point of this entire film
is to let down your guard of how you think you know everything
and get a glimpse at the possiblity that everything you ever feared about being alone in the dark and monsters under your bed
COULD BE TRUE.

please if you see this film with an open mind i promise you will be scared out of your mind