I will be buying this movie as soon as possible. I love science with all of its technicalities and stifling theories, but more than that I love its ability to explore and question everything. The ideas that human understanding has not yet reached its full potential and that it must be carried upon the backs of those daring and brave enough to speak up inspire me to be bold both in my discovering and in my ascertions of reality.

I felt all of this and more as I watched Creation. I cannot say I ever knew Darwin personally so I cannot comment on the "likeness" of the character in the movie with regard to Charles Darwin himself.  But I can say that I thoroughly enjoyed the contrast of the struggles, the failures, and the discouragements portrayed in the film with the final resolve to share an idea wrought with consequence.  When do we decide to stand?  Why do we decide to stand?  I especially liked how Mrs. Darwin, despite her own reservations, finally opens herself to what she fears in an attempt to understand the man she married.

This movie spoke to me as a scientist, as a person of faith, as a husband, as a father, as a human-being riddled with grief, doubt, and the desire for hope.  And it caused my soul to groan because it was not released to more theaters in the United States!  It makes me wonder when more people in the world are gonna grow up and dare to understand things they fear because they think such things may be contrary to their dearly held beliefs.  Oh, how the beauty of the world opens itself up to those daring enough to believe that there may be beauty beyond their current ability to understand it.

I very much agree that this film did not take the controversy of the theory of evolution head on.  It did not squash religion in the name of science.  Instead, I thought it opened both science and religion alike to the possibility that there are many, MANY things that either one has yet to understand, has yet to explore, has yet to reconcile...

I thoroughly believe that any person who entrenches themselves in any ideology so deeply that they cannot believe that they may have missed a boat somewhere has completely missed the only boat that ever mattered.  This film shows how at least two people got on board.