I am a really huge fan of this movie - in fact when it came out in the Theaters I saw it twice that same day -- and we are talking about 1981 - almost 25 years ago.  I know why this picture qualifies as Best Picture -- it is tremendous -- a real period piece set back in early century England and surrounding areas.  The photography, sets, costumes and dialgoue are all superb.  The pace and music are also very moving and really bring you into the drama that unfolds.  Iam Holm as the Coach is marvellous and it is really neat to see a movie that focuses on the Olympics when they were on a smaller scale, yet of such importance to the athletes because of the feeling of national pride.

I am so delighted to see Special Features as well -- can't wait to listen to the entire commentary to hear how the film was made.

MY ONLY COMPLAINT WITH THIS DVD IS --YIKES --  IT IS A WORSE VISUAL PRINT THAN THE PREVIOUS DVD, IN TERMS OF CLARITY, COLOR, SHARPNESS AND COMPLETENESS.  Supposedly this is a "First Time Wide Screen" presentation of this Best Picture, but the company that produced this disc should be more responsible.  They CROPPED a good 10% of the height of the picture that the previous DVD (that was already "formatted to fit your screen") contained.  Plus on the sideways dimension (i.e., the width) they have improved the coverage on the left by about 3%, but have stolen that picture area from the far right hand side of the print.  All these measurements were carfully taken by comparing the old DVD (from 1997) to this one, supposedly in Widescreen!

Boy, now I have to keep track of both discs and can't even look forward to seeing the whole picture area (and "see" the Director's  creative genius) like I did way back in 1981 when I was in the theater.

I know this disc says that this version uses a "matted" widescreen process to preserve the original aspect ratio, but , boy, they really ZOOMED in too much {with their 16 x 9 "camera"}.  So I'll be watching the movie on the old DVD, then switching to the new DVD to hear the commentary (but not really watching the film that closely) and then popping in the Special Feature DVD disc for all the extra jazz.

I sure wish the Studios that manufacture these discs treasured them as much as us film students.  I guess I'll really never "see" that complete version again -- unless the Studio takes our input seriously!!  Maybe if enough of us speak up, they'll re-issue an improved print!

HAVE A GREAT DAY -- and buy this one (but keep your old DVD for more than nostalgia purposes)