Tied up for years in the John Wayne estate has been the re-release of this 1954 movie, "The High and the Mighty". (which won the Academy Award for Best Song that year...look for a plaque at Mann's Chinese Theatre  in Hollywood when you visit there). 
As a child growing up in L.A. in the  50's and 60's, I remember the then RKO TV station Channel 9 would show this  movie relentlessly for years on end.  Then it all stopped.  The movie  vanished.  And now it is being held hostage for some legal reason.  
It  is a movie filled with surplatives though  younger viewers might find the  lack of hyberbolic special effects, sexual gymnastics,  de riguer corporate  disembowlment themes, blah blah....too unsurvivable for a start-to-finish  viewing. It is a vintage 50's type movie...at its best.
This is John  Wayne's best movie, in my opinion. He is excellent...taking him out of the  cowboy theme he ultimately became cemented into.  I will always remember  John Wayne in my mind as he was in this movie...especially the very last  scene which alone is worth the price of admission.  Fittingly, the Orange  County Airport is named after John Wayne, who had a career early on of  appearing in films with aviation themes.  
Ernest K. Gann, who penned the  story, was an American Airlines pilot who churned out aviation novel, one  after another. His equally famous novel that was made into an excellent  movie, was "Fate is the Hunter". Both of these movies deal with  an aircraft incident/accident.  "The High and the Mighty"  concentrates on the human dynamics of a flight crew and their maintenance  base trying to cope with a mechanical problem en route over the longest  single over-the-ocean route in the world: Honolulu to San Francisco.  It is  as dramatic and technically accurate as you could possibly get.  In fact,  "The High and the Mighty" had all the elements of the recent Jan.  31, 2000 Alaska Airlines crash northwest of Los Angeles.  
"Fate is  the Hunter" meticulously examines the post accident phase of aircraft  crash investigation.  It is almost like a Hitchock movie in terms of  suspense.  I don't think this movie is available either and that is a shame  since there is so much junk out there that is. Glenn Ford is the star of  this movie.
The exciting conclusion of "The High and the  Mighty" stays with you forever...much like the ending of the movie  "The Spirit of St. Louis" which starred James Stewart (also a  great movie and is available).
"The High and the Mighty" is a  true aviator's movie...it has the feel and touch of a veteran pilot at the  yoke, Ernest K. Gann.  All of us down on the ground here can only hope and  pray that the powers to be let this great, great American film out of the  hanger and let her fly again....soon.