This is a cool movie. "Dogtown and Z-boys" is the documentary version of "The Lords of Dogtown," or I guess it'd be better to say that "The Lords of Dogtown" is the non-documentary version of this movie. It's about the little band of boys (which included a couple of girls) in the 1970s who basically invented the sport of skateboarding as we know it. Calling it a sport is a bit of a misnomer. It's competitive, but it's not ultimately about winning, but like surfing, it's about the beauty of human skill--or the skill of creating beauty or the beauty of skillfully and creatively interacting with the earth. For the Z-boys, a skateboard was a way to surf when there weren't any waves. They had a lot of free time on their hands, and there was a big drought in Southern Cal, so they roamed the neighborhood looking for empty swimming pools to skate in. Concrete waves.

One of my favorite parts of the DVD is a clip of some of these guys going back to skate at a schoolyard where it all started (it's in the special features). One reason I liked this is that they're all about my age, a bunch of forty-something guys, balding and grey. But they still had the moves; their bodies had them memorized.

It's a great example of the concept of indwelling, developed by philosopher Michael Polanyi (maybe I should apologize for bringing up a little-known philosopher in a review of a skater movie, but his work really helps me understand and appreciate what these guys did). After lots and lots of practice, the highly skilled skater focusses on the move he's trying to pull off and almost no direct attention to the details of how he does it. In his consciousness, the skateboard is part of him--he indwells it. Polanyi also showed that freedom and community are critical factors in the process of discovery. This bunch of kids had lots of both. Minimal adult supervision had some bad consequences, too, but these guys shifted the skateboard paradigm. You might say it's a life wasted on trivia, but I think the skill and physical grace they demonstrate is a work of art. There's a bit of the image of God here, a bit of truth.