(((Spoiler following))) I watched this movie on TV for rhe first time when I was 6 years old and I haven't outgrown it since!  It is a wonderful story about the power of imagination and how good things eventually come to those who do the right things.  The movie is based on the Roald Dahl book "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory."  Willy Wonka is an eccentric candy maker who initiates a contest offering a factory tour and a lifetime supply of chocolate to five lucky winners who find a golden ticket in their Wonka bars.  One of them is Charlie Bucket, an impoverished, but good natured,  child who hopes for a better future for himself, his mother and his grandparents.  The other four winners are some of the nastiest, most obnoxious and brattiest children imaginable.  Augustus Gloop is an overeating glutton, Violet Beauregard is a gum chewing fanatic with no manners (picking her nose while talking about how disgusting spitting is), Veruca Salt is a spoiled brat who wants everything she sees and whines until she gets it and Mike Teavee is a television addict with a smart mouth.  One by one, they are eventually done in by their bad habits.  Augustus falls into the chocolate river after drinking from against Wonka's objections and is sucked into a pipe, Violet chews a piece of Wonka's "meal gum," although Wonka warns her not to, and turns purple and blows up into a giant blueberry, Veruca goes on a tantrum when Wonka tells her she can't have one of his giant geese and she falls down a garbage chute and Mike wants to be on television so badly, he willingly gets zapped into the size of an insect by Wonka's TV camera.  Charlie, by being the respectable child that he is and by not compromising his integrity, not only completes the tour, he wins a prize beyond his wildest dreams.

The parents make it obvious why their children are so impish.  When the children get into trouble at the factory, the parents blame Wonka instead of the kids' own bratty behavior.  From the moment they step into the factory, they're complaining and finding fault with everything Wonka does and they take things way too seriously (much like the critics of this film)!  I bet if the Oompa Loompas, with their wisdom, raised these little demons, they'd be much better.

Don't miss this film.  It is not only a fun to watch diversion from reality, the messages are very timely and it makes you think about the good that still exists in this world.  The critics and nitpickers may not get it but anyone who watches with an open mind and doesn't take it too seriouly will.