Now, let me just say first that I am a HUGE Ab Fab fan. When I first discovered "Patsy" and "Eddie" back in 1992 through a video clip by the "Pet Shop Boys" ironically enough, I have been enamored with those wonderfully wicked women who almost became like part of my family. I bought the DVD package of the first three seasons and still cherish them to this day.
 Well, when I wrote a review of this DVD for series 4, I goofed big time. And I am sorry for this but I was dead wrong on my first impression of this box set. Which is why I felt compelled to edit my review quite a long while after I posted it. About a year ago, I wrote a very harsh review about those new seasons of Ab Fab right here on amazon.com, giving it 2 stars. At that time, I wrote among other things that:

 -I was startled to find out just how unfunny and even irritating the new stuff was.
 -I wouldn't buy the DVD package of the new season even though I have the first three seasons in my collection.
 -I didn't plan on watching the new episodes more than once since I didn't feel they could stand the scrutiny of repeated viewings. 
 Well, what do you know... A year later, I have to eat those words because, not only did I buy the DVD box set of season 4 after all, but I must also admit that I have watched every episode just as many times as the ones from the first three seasons. True, I have to state that some plot lines and situations feel a bit like rehash from earlier material but overall, my earlier criticism was way too hard. Which is why I decided to give this five stars this time around. 
 Maybe it's because I had expected so much out of the new stuff because of my deep bond with those wacky characters that my "pen" was so vicious in that first review. Or maybe it was due to the fact that I simply wasn't in the right frame of mind when I first watched them which tainted my impression for a while afterwards. But I can admit it when I'm wrong and have to say I wasn't fair in my statement that the new material didn't live up to the original.
 It is true that some of the dialogue sounds a bit like what we heard in the original three seasons and some of the situations seem forced. But still, even though I wouldn't qualify them as "perfect", the episodes still contain enough laugh and can hold up very well on repeated viewings. I know because I have seen them all dozens of time since then.

 The strongest point in Ab Fab is without a doubt the acting. The three leads have made the roles their own and you can feel they really enjoy playing their parts. With each story told in "satire" mode and every line uttered in high camp, this series is like an ode to the art of being politically incorrect.
 Here, you get two aging women called Edina Monsoon and Patsy Stone, drugged and boozed out of their minds crawling through life, desperate for some fun and "fabulousness". And their antics is nicely balanced by Edina's daughter Saffron which acts like a responsible adult while dressing in drab clothes. This is all you need to know to enjoy this show and I am pretty sure you will, if you like camp comedies of course.
 About the DVD itself, it contains 6 episodes along with some nice special features: a nice outtakes segment (hilarious, even more funny than some of the lines from the episodes), the full "Mirroball" pilot which was a series Jennifer Saunders tried to get off the ground at BBC that wasn't picked up (and maybe it's just me but I found it quite boring honestly), along with a short interview with a very young Joanna Lumley (Patsy) from her modeling days. 
 Therefore, I would tell you to buy this DVD package if you are a fan of the series but would recommend that you watch the first three seasons first if you've never seen them before since there is a sort of continuity to the show. It would make your experience with this new series more enjoyable if you had a sense of the history for those characters. Hope this was helpful!