As someone who has both read the 30 Days of Night graphic novels and have seen the films, I have to say there are quite a few differences between the two variations. Usually, a book or graphic novel takes precedence over its film counterpart--ask anyone who has read a novel, and then saw a film based on the aforementioned novel. 30 Days of Night: Dark Days is no different.

For myself, it does have its good points, although it strays terribly from the original plot in the graphic novel until the main end, which I will not spoil. The only familiar things in the film that I noticed from the graphic novel were the opening sequence, the auditorium scene, a few of the new characters, like Dane, Lilith, and Agent Norris, Stella's need for revenge, and the main ending. It was somewhat disappointing to see that the film's plot diverged so far away from its graphic novel counterpart; but, in a way, it is understandable, since the first film contradicted certain aspects of its own graphic novel's plot, or left out characters completely, so its Dark Days sequel had to change some of the storyline around, in order to remain consistent with the first 30 Days of Night film.

For ninety-two minutes, the film's pacing was a little too fast in some parts and was a little too slow in others. I felt that there needed to be more character development, particularly around the vampire hunters and Dane, since he played such an integral part in the graphic novel. The film barely touched upon his character, which was a personal disappointment. As with other reviewers of this film, the vampire hunters were not the accomplished hunters they claimed themselves to be--not a UV-enhanced light among the lot of them--when they went into their enemies' dark domain with only guns, which only slows the vampires down. Not the most elite vampire hunters out there, but at least they have Stella, who has enough intelligence to survive.

Kiele Sanchez, who takes over for Melissa George in this film, plays a very emotional and capable Stella, however. I really didn't miss Melissa George's absence; Kiele Sanchez was just as convincing, so it wasn't difficult to see another actress playing the title role. Her character is probably the most developed in the film, as well.

Since the film had a small budget, the cinematography and art direction were decent enough. The film blended in rather well with the dirty, urban scene in the graphic novel; it was vague, with only the central characters left to fill in the gaps. I also liked the colour scheme Ben Ketai used. It certainly worked to the film's advantage, since it contrasts Barrow's bleak atmosphere, as well incorporating the feeling of claustrophobia that David Slade left us with in the first film. Sunny Los Angeles was an interesting foil for Barrow, certainly.

Overall, Dark Days is a decent enough horror film. It contains a lot of the classic elements that support the genre, yet doesn't expound on all of the mundane qualities--granted, there were still some, certainly--that are usually attached to a sequel, particularly to that of a vampire horror film. I don't regret purchasing the DVD. I mean, it wasn't the graphic novel, but it's not the worst film I've seen. I especially loved the opening sequence and the ending. The flashbacks of Barrow--some of which were taken from the first film--were also a pleasure to see.

I gave this film four stars, since it does have some flaws, if not had a few loose ends that needed to be tied up. One example being that I kept wondering what happened to one of the principal characters, since he was bitten close to the end, and we don't hear anymore about him. He just faded into the background, which was odd, since I thought he was important.

Nevertheless, Dark Days has certainly left a mixed reaction among fans of both the graphic novels and the first film. I personally enjoyed it, and will certainly watch it again, even though I wish it had followed the Dark Days graphic novel a little more closely. All I can suggest for anyone who hasn't seen the film is to simply watch it with an open mind, and judge it for yourself.