Having been a huge fan of the original Smokin Aces, I had high hopes for this.  I was a little skeptical of the fact that it failed to land a theatrical release, but the trailer looked good so I went ahead and bought it.

Unfortunately, I was hugely disappointed.  The acting is mostly very bad, the story is convoluted and nonsensical, and the few special effects included are terrible (explosions look like they were taken straight out of a video game).  It's clear that they tried to capture the spirit and intensity of the first movie, with numerous characters and stylized cinematography, but without the budget, it just comes off looking like crap.  There were too many characters for a movie this short (88 mins), so they all came off underdeveloped.  The tremors were okay, even though only one from the original was included, and Autumn Reeser, one of the few standouts in the film, was excellent in the crazy white trash bitch role, as well as incredibly sexy in scant clothing the whole time.  The movie would have been a lot better if she'd been featured more heavily, but really she doesn't have much to do.  Vinnie Jones also does an excellent job, considering the low quality of the material, but he's in the movie for maybe five minutes total, same for Tommy Flanagan (Soot).  The other female assasin, Martha Higareda, is given kind of a cool introduction, but again doesn't have much to do afterwards, and is honestly not a very good actress.

The major pitfall of this movie is that the characters who are really at the center of it, all the FBI guys, are so boring, especially when compared to the assassins, that you just don't really care about them.  Tom Berenger gives a suitably bland performance as the bureau desk jockey who clearly has some deeper stuff going on, and there's some nobody actor trying to fill the Ryan Reynolds role who is just as bland, though not intentionally.  There are also a few other FBI characters who I can't even remember, despite having seen the movie about an hour ago.

Overall, if you were a fan of the original, I would strongly suggest you rent this, just to see it once, but don't make my mistake of paying 20 bucks for it.  I give it the second star just for Autumn Reeser and Vinnie Jones.