I saw this movie in theaters in Imax 3D, and I was astounded by the visuals.  The atmosphere was breathtaking, and the animation of the owls was superbly done.  The musical score is incredible for an animated film.  This is one of the best animated films I have seen, and as for it being CGI... this is what CGI was made for.  I was more eager for the release of this film to Blu-Ray than any other film this year.

What I truly enjoyed about Legend of the Guardians is that it is not just another dumbed-down children's movie.  It does not look down on the intelligence of the audience.  There's no blood and gore, but the owls do wield some scary weaponry and participate in some intense battle scenes, and the tone of the story can be rather dark at times.  The danger to the characters is real, and there's a good deal of tension and suspense.  It reminded me of some of the older animated films like The Secret of NIMH in the sense that the movie takes itself seriously.  That's a refreshing change from the usual treatment that animation receives.  When I learned that Zach Snyder (300) directed the movie, I understood why, and he did a superb job.  I wish more film makers would take this approach.

After seeing the movie in the theater, I became interested in the books and I have read the first four so far.  If you have read the books and not seen the movie you will notice some definite differences.  Some characters are added, some are not present, and some have undergone some changes.  The story is based around the first three books, and much of the story in the books has been condensed.  This is the result of the screenplay adaptation process.  There's simply no way to fit the entirety of the books verbatim into a film.  The movie would be over three hours, and even at 90 minutes, the production cost is expensive.  There's also a matter of pacing the film for the audience, and having a complete story for a single film.  A sequel is always possible, but the screenwriters know that they need to tell a story without the necessity for a sequel.  I would have preferred a longer film myself with some more fleshing out of Soren's time in the Ga'Hoole tree, but as it is, the story is fine and quite enjoyable.  If you have seen the movie but have not read the books I highly recommend them.  They are written for older children, but adults can easily enjoy them, and after having read the books and watching the film again I was able to appreciate the film even more for knowing some of the smaller details better.

I recently encountered a superb deal on a 3D-capable Samsung plasma TV and 3D Blu-Ray player.  Tonight I watched this movie in 3D, and it was just like being in the theater again.  The visual quality is just incredible.  If you have a 3D-capable home theater, this is the version you want.  It includes a 2D Blue-Ray copy as well as standard DVD, so if you've been considering upgrading to 3D sometime in the near future then go for this version.  It's worth it if you like the 3D experience, and it's one of only a few 3D movies available at this time.

In regards to Charles Solomon's official review of this movie... potential buyers, ignore it.  Read the customer reviews instead of this recycled movie-critic drivel.  Amazon, if you intend to actually sell products like movies, please find people to review them that actually want to sit down and watch them, or at least have an open mind when they do so.  Solomon's review sounds like he was forced to sit through a movie he didn't want to watch in the first place and then had nothing nice to say about it as a result.  I wager that he's being honest in the sense that he personally didn't like the movie, but most of us feel differently about the film, and reviews like that certainly don't do much to help your sales.