"Ikiru," to my mind, may be the greatest film in the canon of one of the cinema's greatest directors. It is one of the most spiritually engaging films I have ever seen, and one that reveals new insights each time I watch it.
The Japanese word ikiru is a verb meaning "to live," and provides a very concise summary of what this film is about. Kurosawa's subject is nothing less than the meaning of life itself, and how we obscure that meaning through the thoughtlessness of our daily actions, our isolation from other human beings, and the misperceptions affecting the limited relations we do have with others. Through his depiction of a crisis in the life of his protagonist, Kurosawa challenges us to examine our own assumptions about life and happiness.
******
In "Ikiru," we meet Kanji Watanabe, a public official with no passion for his work duties. A narrator informs us that Watanabe has been more dead than alive for some time now, and simply goes through the motions at his job. His desk contains an enormous stack of petitions and requests from the public, along with various forms and memos. Watanabe doesn't seem interested in reducing the size of this mountain of paperwork. When he opens his desk drawer, we see a document entitled "A Plan to Raise Office Efficiency." He tears off the first page of the plan and uses it to clean his glasses, finally throwing the crumpled paper into his trashcan. As we watch Watanabe's barely conscious attempts to do his job, the narrator asks us if this type of detachment is morally acceptable.
As the film unfolds, we learn that Watanabe's zombie-like activities at the office are only part of his problems. He lives with his son and his son's wife, and seems to have a strained relationship with both of them. After Watanabe discovers that he has cancer, the awareness of his pending mortality causes him to sense the meaninglessness of his life for the first time.
Determined to escape from his depression, Watanabe makes various attempts "to live." Overtures toward his son and daughter-in-law fall flat. He makes the acquaintance of a young writer, and his new companion tries to cheer him up by taking him out to experience a few cheap thrills. They go to bars, nightclubs, and strip shows, but Watanabe is unable to overcome the feelings of utter hopelessness inside him. As the film progresses, we gradually learn the details of Watanabe's final quest for meaning.
******
Ikiru is a fascinating and unique film on many levels. The nonlinear use of time and the circular structure used to catch all of Watanabe's coworkers shirking their responsibilities are used to great advantage. For instance, Kurosawa cuts from Watanabe's desk to the desks of all of his coworkers and then back again to show that he is part of a culture of denial and apathy that distinguishes his office as a whole. The circular structure also neatly and humorously summarizes the  "vicious circle" of bureaucracy, and shows the surprising amount of time wasted in this fashion. What at first seems to be a relatively short time interval spent between one employee's refusal to accept the complaint and the next turns out to be much longer - so long that Watanabe has apparently left his desk long ago and hasn't been back. This sequence sets up the next scene, in which we will learn of Watanabe's cancer and way it begins causing him to look more critically at the environment of apathy we have just witnessed.
This movie also expertly examines some of the "meanings of life" common in contemporary culture. To the young writer Watanabe meets in the bar, the meaning of life is literally found in wine, women and song. He fails to understand that Watanabe needs something deeper than pleasures of the flesh. What then is Watanabe's problem? One interpretation of the film maintains that Watanabe must come to realize that he alone is responsible for the choices he makes in his life. We may call this the existentialist interpretation of the film. According to some existentialists, the film tells us that `life' is meaningless when everything is said and done; at the same time one man's life can acquire meaning when he undertakes to perform some task that to him is meaningful."
This interpretation of "Ikiru" conjures memories of Albert Camus' classic existentialist riff on humanity in The Myth of Sisyphus. That is, all of us must push our boulders up the hill of life repeatedly, only to have them roll back down again, but we can find meaning in even the most repetitious and purposeless circumstances if we try.
 Ultimately, however, I think the existentialist reading fails to account for the full meaning of Watanabe's spiritual crisis and eventual rebirth. It is true that Watanabe needs to look more deeply into his life and disregard the ways others perceive his actions. But I don't think Kurosawa's thesis is that life is inherently meaningless until we resolve to perform tasks that are meaningful to us. The existentialist interpretation begs the question of why Watanabe was not able to find meaning in the nihilist ecstasy championed by the young writer, or in the company of a young girl. 
Kurosawa's point seems to be that these kinds of actions inherently cannot bring fulfillment to our lives. So it isn't just a matter of being able to choose meanings wherever we see fit. Only certain types of thoughts and actions seem to be capable of rendering true meaning. In this regard, Kurosawa has much in common with the great Russian novelist Fyodor Dostoevsky, a writer initially embraced but finally rejected by many existentialists (especially Camus). Dostoevky best expressed his philosophy of life in his last and greatest book, The Brothers Karamazov. The central theme of Karamazov is that all people are guilty before all others, because all of our ideas and actions affect the lives of others, and the ideas and actions of others affect our lives. This means that we are all responsible for each other. Instead of asking why life seems to be meaningless, we should therefore ask whether our own thoughts and actions lessen or increase the sense of meaning in the world - whether we add or subtract from the sum of human suffering. 
Kurosawa adapted Doestevsky's novel The Idiot immediately prior to making Ikiru, and considered Dostoevsky a major influence throughout his career. He also considered Ikiru to be most Dostoevskyan of all his films. In light of these facts, we can begin to see Ikiru as an exploration of the Dostoevskyan concept of shared responsibility, and the liberation from despair it entails when properly understood.

In the world of Ikiru, isolation reigns supreme. Each department in Watanabe's public works office is an island unto itself, and will not assume responsibility for a single project. As we have seen, they refer the complaint about the sump from one desk to another in an endless cycle of buerocratic duty shirking.  Watanabe drives home this point after his spiritual awakening, when he tells his coworkers that all of the departments must work together in order to fulfill their responsibility toward the public. He awakens to the realization that his actions can make a difference, because each human life intersects with every other. 
****
 At a recent special screening of "Ikiru," Chicago Tribune film critic Michael Wilmington discussed the "shadow of death" that hangs over the film. Legendary writer Studs Turkel, who was also present at the screening, gave the appropriate reply: "It's about death you say? But, of course, it's about life."
 In the final analysis, I think Studs is right. After all, the name "Ikiru" does mean "to live," and that can't be an accident. The film is a beautiful and insightful reminder that none of us are truly alone if we recognize our responsibility to others who share the world with us. At a time when world events make us feel scared, threatened and isolated, we may need this message more than ever before.