The screenplay for this film was so gritty that the Department of Defense withdrew its production support.  Director Robert Aldrich was left to pull military equipment from studio warehouses and the back lot vehicle boneyard.  No matter, ATTACK, which was adapted from the stage play FRAGILE FOX, constitutes the guts and glory adventures of an infantry platoon during the Battle of the Bulge.

Synopsis:  An infantry company is saddled with ill suited company commander.  Cpt. Erskine Cooney (Eddie Albert) was tolerable as a company commander of a National Guard outfit in peace time, but unfit for command of a combat unit.  The movie opens with Cooney paralyzed with fear and unable to order his company to relieve a pinned squad.  Lieutenant Costa (Jack Palance) never forgave nor trusted Cooney for his fatal command indecision. The link between Cooney and Costa is company executive officer Lieutenant Harry Woodruff (William Smithers).  Woodruff is too dedicated to his duty to move against his superior officer and yet sympathizes with Costa.  Woodruff does inform Cooney's superior Lt. Col. Clyde Bartlett (Lee Marvin) about his concerns about Cooney, but Bartlett assures Woodruff that the company is moving out of the line and hints that the war is almost over.  Bartlett has other reasons for keeping the obvously unfit Cooney in command as Cooney's father, known as "The Judge," is very politically connected back home.  As such, Bartlett's future is tied to that of Cooney.

Unfortunately the war does not end as the Germans launch an attack.  Though it is never specifically stated, we are left to believe that the German offensive is part of the Battle of the Bulge.  Cooney once again sends a solitary platoon to occupy a key village and finds himself frozen by fear and unable to contemplate committing the remainder of the company to rescure the ambushed platoon.  Costa, with a mere squad holding a house on the edge of the village, orders his men to withdraw under withering German fire.

As a consequence the Germans advance into the village hosting Cooney's command and a severely wounded Lieutanant Costa vows to kill Cooney.

Jack Palance stars as the units' respected platoon leader who not only battles the Germans, but also the illogical and destructive orders of his psycotic company commander.  Rounding out the cast is Buddy Ebsen as Costa's common sense platoon sergeant.

The best and the worst of human nature is portrayed in this film.  Action packed scenes are complimented by excellent human drama scenes.  ATTACK dared to show the darker side of human behavior in a film where the enemy was not necessarily the greatest threat.

The film was denied extensive military hardware.  Though a few Sherman tanks do dart past the camera in both the beginning and end of the film, the German tanks are limited to small surplus American 1935 era M2 tanks chassis.  Even with wooden prop shop sides and guns, these tanks were so short in stature that in one scene Jack Palance crouches and acts as if he is laboring up the steep side of a monsterous tank, when in realtiy he stood taller than the top of the tank.

The Germans are equipped with the usual wardrobe stock of uniforms, helmets, and rifles more appropriate for World War One.  The one exception is Peter Van Eyck's SS uniform -- itself bearing pre-war insignia.

The famous Culver City 40 Acres European set was used for most of the combat scenes in the village.  The outdoor scenes complete with powdered "snow" added to the edge of the one-lane road was filmed in nearby Thousand Oaks, which was a regular outdoor film location for westerns and war movies. If the opening pillbox terrain looks familiar, it also served as a pillbox location for COMBAT!'s two part episode HILLS ARE FOR HEROES filmed at Albertson's Ranch.

This film was already long overdue when it finally became available on VHS.  It is in even better shape on DVD.  This is one of those classic war films that has to be part of any serious war film collection.