#1 Why did the author allow this bastardization of his work?
.... must be $!

Fantastic acting - that's why I bared with it. But, man, what an intense pounding of anti-gun propaganda. And the ending just made me want to heave. Important: these people knew what they were doing; they knew the acting would keep you there while they steadily fed you mounds of crap.  This is a propaganda movie from start to finish (move over Joseph Groebbels).  I am very amazed, though, at the incredibly weak force-fed logic they used - I expected much better.  The propaganda methods used were a "5 star" rating (some of the best I have seen by the radical left), but the intellectual level of the arguments were "2 star" at most.  It's unbelievable and doesn't work (the message) - but the propaganda side of it got me to watch the whole movie, so go figure !!!

You know, I love how the leftist liberals want to ban all weapons from law-abiding citizens .... knowing fully those criminals will always have their own way of getting guns (like Sat. night specials).  No, the main issue here is to have the government keep all the guns. Then the situation of the common people can't handle responsibility issue BUT THE GOVERMENT CAN????

Check out recent Albanian history. In short ...

1) liberal democratic-republic (a bit more liberal than ours)
2) banned guns
3) gov't squandered citizen's social security - acct=0
4) citizen's revolted (all ages & both gender)
5) gov't declared martial law
6) military gunned down citizen's (all ages & both gender)
7) citizen's dead in streets with bats and pitchforks

Now, Is our government squandering our social security money? Is there a HARD push to ban guns lately? Didn't A. Greenspan just announce the other day that it looks like the S.S. acct will be at approximately "0" if nothing is done about it?  Will people be mad if they have to live off road-kill and have absolutely no money in a gov't  account that they have put into for all their working life,  from all the dead end jobs that they have had to endure (and conquer)?

You do the math!!!