Dragonslayer is one of my favorite films, for several reasons.

  Firstly, the performances are excellent.  They're believable, restrained, convincing portrayals that never stoop to cartoonish stereotypes.  The costumes and sets are first rate and authentic to a tee.  The locations are breathtaking, filmed in Wales and the Isle of Skye - the countryside looks as though it has produced its fair share of dragons and wizards

 Secondly, the plot and script go deeper than the surface.  There's a lot more going on here than just good versus evil, wizard versus dragon.  The way that Ulrich (Ralph Richardson) regales himself in proper sorcerer's attire so as to make the right first impression is great.  With little dropped lines the director and screenwriter create a very rich and complete world.  Ulrich asks the travelers why they don't go talk to such and such other wizard...or how about those sisters that are witches?  "Or what about Old Grimbold?  I heard tell he slew a dragon once..."  "They're all dead.  You're the only one left."  With just a few seconds of screen time we get an image of a world in transition, where the old sorcerers are dying out along with the dragons.  The times they are changing.  The politics at work in the court of the king of Urland are as true to reality as if they had happened last week.  All the give and take and the hard decisions a leader must make are there to be seen.  A village community under immense stress is shown honestly, and the ways they react are true to life.

 Thirdly, and this is what has kept me loving this film for the last 20 years, is that this film more than any other dealing with this subject matter, even more than Lord of the Rings, makes me wonder what it was really like in that age of the world.  What was it like to be in Britain at the turn of the tide between paganism and Christianity?  The hope of redemption and eternal life through The Church might have felt like thin gruel if a dragon needed slaying, and a sorcerer of the Old School said he could do it.  It's a silly idea, really, but I'm sure that similar sorts of things did happen, back when the world was not quite so old.  There is a wonderful, tiny touch near the end, one you might not notice.  (Spoiler alert.)  Ulrich, back from the dead, meets Valerian again and as he is about to do battle with the dragon, he says a few last words to her.  As he does this, he pauses and picks up the necklace she's wearing.  It's a tiny iron cross, a gift from her father.  And as he looks back at her, there is just the faintest tinge (Ralph Richardson is the master of faint tinges) of recognition in the old wizard's eyes that he is being replaced, that his world of magic is being set aside for one of faith.

 And that's allright with him.  Perhaps he knew it all along.  Perhaps he's part of the transition; we'll never know.  But he has one last job to do before the new day dawns.  A fine, fine film, marred only by a clunky and somewhat uneven soundtrack.