This is one of the most engaging and well-made action movies I ever watched, it conveys a powerful feeling of actuality, and shall leave you biting at your own nails during most of the viewing time. Acting is very good, special effects are realistic and compelling, and the DVD's audio and video quality is above average.

All this said, potential buyers should keep in their minds that, like most American productions, this movie shouldn't be considered anything above an action buster and a legal thriller. Most of all it must not be regarded as anything seriously concerned with military and political actuality, and the legal issues connected to it. This is a fiction as unconcerned in portraying the behavior of the American military or the issues at stake during rescue operations in urban areas, as "Saving private Ryan" was unconcerned in seriously depicting World War II fighting.

First off the plot, while admittedly retaining an appearance of balance and realism during most of the movie, is spoiled by the final revelation. The idea that 80+ % of the individuals composing so large a crowd could be armed and firing en masse from an open courtyard devoid of any cover is as ludicrous as the idea that so big a show could go unnoticed and unreported... where are the policy chains set up to keep things under control? Where are the reporters rushing to get the big scoop? Where are the crowds massing at distance to see what's happening? Where is the embassy staff? Has the ambassador been left alone with his family and a couple aids?!?

Most of all the movie makers, in their effort to please the patriotic feelings of American viewers, strive to convey the false impression that US military and political institutions care a great deal about civil casualties. As the Iraqi torture and bombardment scandals have amply shown, the US military cares little more than Al-Qaida about the loss of innocent human life, and American politicians are primarily concerned in covering up their troops' behavior. In cases (like the Abu Grahib events) where a scandal can not be suppressed, a scapegoat is quickly found and a few grunts dismissed or sentenced to short terms.

Remember My Lai? For the murder of 350 villagers, only one person was sentenced, and then the great humanitarian, Richard M. Nixon, granted pardon and commuted the sentence to 10 years. Then in Sept. 1974, a federal district court overturned the conviction and Lt Calley was released! The other killers got no sentence at all, and it took 30 years for the few soldiers who defended the villagers to get medals from Congress. I don't write this out of outrage - I am as obdurate to human rights issues as the troopers concerned - but out of scorn toward the human inclination to warp reality in order to create the myths and ideologies that make organized society possible.

This is one of the many war productions aimed to mytologize history (well, in this case actuality) to fit into the American civic religion of Christian morality, brave patriotism and stalwart citizen-soldiery. WWII movies like "Saving private Ryan" are an appropriate term of comparison: in showing GIs engaged in desperate stands and heroic fights they mold the herd's minds into believing that the American military accomplished a lot more than slowly and inefficiently toppling an already defeated enemy (mauled by Soviet human waves on the Eastern front) by levelling any pocket of resistance through fighter-bombers and artillery. (On this point I recommend John Ellis' "Brute Force. Allied Strategy and Tactics in the II World War")

Instead of confronting us with a borderline situation, and outlining the balance of political and legal issues arising when the military must come to terms with heavy loss of human life coupled with the inability to divert mass medias' attention, the movie makers choosed to go for a conventional war movie and legal thriller, packed with the usual, nauseous stereotypes: the gallant, unjustly persecuted hero (the Colonel), the stealthy villain (the US defence counsellor) and the honest citizen (the Colonel's attorney) striving to overcome his personal problems to ensure that justice is finally done. Nor they forgot the insufferable Happy End of standard Hollywood filmography.

Now don't get me wrong, this is an excellent thriller and war movie, and you'll love it as long as you are into the genre and satisfy yourself with mainstream productions - that's why I am giving it three stars. Just don't make the mistake to go to the box office if you are looking for anything concerned with real-world actuality, or stimulating from an intellectual point of view.