Don't be de-bleated by the negative reviews unless you consider puns, dark satire, and absurdity a waste of time. Given comments of friends who saw this before me, I didn't expect much greatness from this film and waited for the rental, although I wanted to like it. Happily, I liked it a lot. My main criticism is that the story seemed a bit unfocused in parts (and I haven't read the book so can't comment on how the screenplay compares, represents, transfers, etc.). However, on its own merits I think the film as a whole is smart, funny, and engaging.

The cast is as brilliant as you might expect and, between their great work, decent scripting and blocking, and nice editing, the comic timing of the gags and barbs is pretty solid. A few of my favorite scenes were 1) while the Jedi (Clooney) and the journalist (McGregor) are held captive and the Jedi is coaching the journalist on how to tap into his psychic powers, the Jedi says 'Go ahead, "attack" me,' and the journalist says, "What's with the quotations fingers...like I'm only capable of ironic attacking or something?" 2) the Jedi's so proud of his successful cloud bursting that he runs into the only rock in the desert, and 3) at a fork in the road, the Jedi instantly (after half an hour) "sees" the right path and then drives over an IED. Jeff Bridges is delightful as the fallen guru whose reign of unconventional leadership is a back story that we see through flashbacks (which is, in a way, quite appropriate). We learn through a thoughtful assertion that drinking and classic rock help the Jedi get in touch with his psychic energy and, through a confidence, that the coveted eagle feather is fake because real ones are associated with a big fine. All this...and Clooney with long hair!

Throughout is a thread of narration that provides the journalist's viewpoint as he learns about the New Earth Army and the U.S. attempt to be the "superpower with super powers." As a side note, I found it interesting how much Ewan McGregor as narrator sounds like George Clooney! Overall, although this film isn't exactly a comic masterpiece, it's wicked fun, all the more so because the military really did have such a program.