Is this another predictible love story? We'll find out..but you have to know a bit of the movie first before you can rate it, right? So let's start off with a basic overview of the movie:
Mary Fiore [Lopez] is a perfectionist wedding planner who's got planning weddings down to a tee..from the flowers, the reception, even the FOB who's MIA [Father of the Bride Missing In Action!]. Yep, she's perfect with weddings, except when it comes to her own. 
No doubt Mary has a successful career, but the audience can't help but wonder about her own love life. Well, at the moment, it's non-existant..unless you count Massimo [Justin Chambers], the simple and lovable Italian man that Mary's father tries to set Mary up with. Unfortunately for Massimo, Mary isn't attracted to Massimo..so he just follows Mary around like a puppy dog. 
Other than that, things are fine in Mary's routine life, she's even about to nail a big account with Fran Donelly [Brigitte Wilson-Sampras], a successful businesswoman. Her life is quickly changed however, when one day she is rescued by a cute stranger, Steve Eddison [Matthew McConaughey]. She goes out with Steve and has a great time with him, and feels that she's finally found the perfect guy. That is, until Mary finds out that Steve is the fiancee of Fran Donelly. Mary has broken the golden rule of wedding planning: Never fall in love with the groom. 
Mary can't lose the Fran Donelly wedding account..this is one of the most important accounts she's ever had. Can Mary just do her job and forget about Steve? After all, he's already engaged, right?
Watch the movie and find out:)
It seems like this would be another typical love story with a predictible ending. It actually does a good job of not being too cheesy or too predictible, at least as far as romantic comedies go. It's probably one of the most original story lines I've seen in a while, it seems like every single type of love story's been done already! The movie had a few choice funny moments, like whenever Mary tries to hide from Massimo..and the elderly friends of Mary's father add comedy with their witty comments and make the movie even more enjoyable, especially Bert:) Like I mentioned earlier, it's not too sappy, not too predictible, and does pretty well in the genre of romantic comedies. My only complaint would have to be the ending..it seemed a little too abrupt to me. Other than that, it's a great movie!
Oh, and another thing..sorry if my review [is poorly written], this is my first review, haha.