Short Cuts works as a sequel to 'The Player'. Whereas 'The Player' was a scathing satire of Hollywood, Short Cuts moves only a few miles out from Tinseltown to expose the ordinary people of suburban LA.

The characters in this wonderfully complex and intriguing fly on the wall drama are rich and various enough to command complete attention throughout it's considerable (3 hours) length. Altman takes great delight in toying with the viewers expectations of the characters he arrays in front of them. Take the Sex-phone operator's husband (played by Chris Penn), we are invited to sympathise with his frustrations (and secretly applaud him for his tolerance) as he accepts his wifes XXX-rated day job and even tolerates the withdrawal of sex (which bores her). When he is revealed as a far more sinister deviant at the end, the irony is astonishing. Then there is the self-centred and emotionally shallow old man (Jack Lemmon)who is callous, cold and  unfeeling towards his son (Lemmons' grandson is in intensive care in hospital after a hit and run), who is more interested in his son's famous career as a TV personality and who abandons his son at the hospital when his grandson dies rather than share his son's feelings. The many ways in which the characters in the film are horrible to each other appear partly as accidental and partly stemming from deep character flaws.

The title..'Short Cuts' is very apt, the characters each take shortcuts in their lives with usually disastrous consequences, the old geezer takes an easy short cut when he walks away from his grieving son in the hospital, the Woman driver takes one when she leaves the kid to his own devices after knocking him down, the fishermen take one when they postpone the hassle of reporting the drowned corpse, the bar singer takes one when she dismisses her...'disturbed?' daughters grief over the dead child, the violinist daughter takes many...ignoring her mothers attempts to get closer to her.... then committing suicide. I secretly applauded the scene were there is a mixup at the photo-collection booth, and two characters accidentally get the other's photos, both photos depict shocking violence but as ever nothing is as it seems, their righteous indignation over what they see as they assume the worst is such a simple commendable expression of human truth.

Altman takes a group of characters and lays bare their imperfections and shortcomings, he cleverly links their stories together in a way that recalls the theory of 'six degrees of separation' as opposed to implying a special meaning to those links. There is an ambiguity to all their deeds, nothing is really good or evil, even the brutal slaying at the end has a tone of ambiguity as we are left wondering if we actually saw correctly what we think we did.