I've been a diehard "DragonBall Z", "DragonBall GT", and "DragonBall" fan ever since I was six years old and I love this boxset! This boxset has all of the episodes from the Fusion and Kid Buu Sagas and has the conclusion to the "DragonBall Z" series. There are many, many, many spoilers ahead, so don't read past here if you haven't seen this season yet!

 At the beginning of the Fusion Saga, a jerky man shoots the now-friendly Majin Buu's dog, Bee, leading Majin Buu to get so mad that he splits himself apart, between the good Majin Buu (the big, childlike one, Mr. Buu) and the evil side of him, Evil Buu (the tall, skinny, nonchildlike, gray one). Evil Buu absorbs Majin Buu/Good Buu/Mr. Buu, turning him into Super Buu, the entirely evil form of Buu, which the good guys begin to fight for almost all of the Fusion Saga. Piccolo teaches Goten (Goku's second son) and Trunks (the kid Trunks from the present timeline) how to fuse with each other and they eventually create Gotenks, their fused form. Gotenks fights Super Buu, Super Buu absorbs Gotenks and Piccolo, so Goku and Vegeta fuse and create Gogeta, their fused form. Gogeta gets absorbed by Super Buu after he transforms them into candy, which they attack him as before they get absorbed. When Super Buu absorbs/eats them, they split apart and make their way out of Super Buu's body. Eventually, Goku and Vegeta get Gohan, Piccolo, and Gotenks out of Super Buu, and he eventually begins to transform into Kid Buu, the original form of Buu that Bibidi (another of the villains that I like that appears in the flashback at the "End of Earth" episode of the Kid Buu Saga) created, leading to the Supreme Kai, Kibito, and Old Kai to go to the flashback in the "End of Earth" episode that explains about Buu's past. Buu transforms into Ultra Buu and then Kid Buu and blows up the Earth, making Goku, Vegeta, Hercule, and the revived Bee, go to the Kai's planet. Goku and Vegeta get Kid Buu to get rid of the Good buu/Mr. Buu and they fight him. Eventually, Mr. Buu and Vegeta help Goku get all of the energy on Earth and the rest of the universe to create a Spirit Bomb and launch it at Kid Buu, killing him. A few years later, Goku fights against Kid Buu's good, reincarnated form, Ubb (Ubb is Buu spelled backwards) and the series ends, leading to "DragonBall GT". I love this boxset and the conclusion to "DragonBall Z" and I can't wait to get this and the "DragonBall Z", "DragonBall GT", and "DragonBall" boxsets that I don't have yet!