I thought this film would have alot more surfing than it did. I mean, it did have surfing, of course. In fact, the entire plot was loosely centered around the sport, I just figured it would ONLY be about surfing. Thinking back, I realize that probably would have made for a pretty boring and repetitive two hours. I'm glad the film had a plot, I just wish it had been stronger and not quite so questionable.

This film was pretty good I suppose, but not something I would see again. The plot wasn't bad, but it seemed just a little strange to me. It seemed odd that Anne Marie (the main character, played by Kate Bosworth) was invited to compete in Pipeline when she didn't seem to be a very good surfer. I mean, she had been previously injured, and although she was physically healed, she wasn't yet emotionally restored. It seemed like everytime she caught a wave, she would become frightened and wipe out. I realize this is natural for even the most talented athletes in any sport, but Anne Marie was invited to compete in pipeline after this injury. Why would she be invited when she could barely even surf anymore? Actually, Anne Marie's best friends Eden and Lena (played by Michelle Rodriguez and Sanoe Lake, respectively) seemed to be better surfers than she was. So why was she competing when they weren't? Also, if getting a surfing sponsorship and winning Pipeline had been a dream of hers for so long, why would she let a guy she just met stand in her way? I guess it wasn't quite the female empowerment film they advertised it as being. The end was a bit too far-fetched for me as well, but, let's face it, that was to be expected.

Anyway, if you're looking for a real "girl power" movie, this definitely isn't it. Seriously, despite the fact that it's all obviously fake, even 'Charlie's Angels' (the first, of course) would be a better choice for that. If you're looking for something that's just plain surfing, you might want to check out some sort of surfing documentary. If you're bored and just want something to watch, that's when I would finally come around and recommend this film. Though I would advise you to rent it, not buy it. I can't imagine it's something one would feel the need to view a second time.

THE FINAL VERDICT: 70%