This is one of my all-time fav. Disney movies for a million reasons, but here are a few that I'll point out to ya...
 First the cast is excellent! Demi Moore has the sexy, yet affectionate and caring voice for Esmerelda. Kevin Kline adds a strong and sensitive tone to Phoebus. And Jason Alexander is perfect for the wise-cracking Hugo. Not to mention Tom Hulce as Quasimodo. He's got a beautiful singing voice, also humbling, innocent as well as hopeful character voice.
 Second I watched this movie as a child and it has every element of they typical Disney movie.  Catchy songs, loveable characters, color and magic and a moral to it all. I would sit and watch it over and over again, I loved it and so did other kids my age.
 Now that I watch it at age 16, totally different elements in the movie interest me. The time period, for one, is amazing. 1480 something is about the time, and the arcitecture, Romanequse and Gothic styles combined for beautiful Cathedrals in Paris. The festivals, typical in Europe in the late Middle ages, give insight on life back then. Aside from the cultural aspects, are the characters. Quasimodo, the deformed bellringer, is held high in the tower, away from society. On his first journey down from the tower, he befriends and later falls in love with the beautiful Esmerelda. Esmerelda soon meets Pheobus, the captin of the guards assigned to kill her, and they fall in love. All the while, Frollo, the evil gaurdian of Quasi, becomes obsessed with Esmerelda's entrancing ways. He decides that if he can't have her, no one can. He prays to God to have mercy on him for his obession, and in the end can't control it. So the troublesome "love circle" all the characters are caught up in adds an emotional twist, esp. when Quasi doesn't get the girl in the end.
 The music is great in the film also. Not as many catchy beats, which is unusual in a Disney film, but rather Catholic hymms of forgiveness. The motif of these songs and lyrics in latin almost give an eerie feel to the film. Quasi's songs of love and life outside Notre Dame's walls almost left me in tears. Esmerelda's hymm of prayer to God shows her selflessness and is an uplifting scene in the film. Finally, Frolo's dark "Hellfire" is totally a radical move for Disney. A threat on the gypsy's life, as well as the visual elements of fire, demonds and hell is enough to leave you with chills.