The First Part: Battles Without Honour and Humanity (the 1st part of the 5 part Yakuza Papers series) is no classic of Japanese Cinema but it is a gripping insight into the Yakuza gangs and gang warfare. Following Shozo Hirono a man who starts out as foot soldier in an escalating gang war; torn between loyalty to a weak Yakuza Godfather known as Yamamori and another gang. Shozo Hirono is is a somewhat sympathetic character and remains a observer as the violent gang wars rage and surprisingly spends most of his time in jail as the film follow different gang coups and wars. So it would be fair to say the film is less about Hirono and more about the whole Yakuza world.

The Second Part: Deadly Fight In Hiroshima is just as gripping as the first but the hero of the first film Shozo Hirono takes a bit of back role while somebody else takes centre stage: we follow Shoji Yamanaka a weak loner who ends becoming a hitman for Muraoka, the biggest Yakuza boss in Hiroshima, and falling in love with his niece. the hero from the first film does appear half-way through as observer of Yamanaka's situation as they cross paths. Just as good as the first one this second part boasts a fast-paced plot the same delve into the Yakuza and personal touch with introduction Yamanaka's character.

The Third Part: Proxy War, unfortunately,is the weakest in the series our focus shifts back to Shozo Hirono who has his own small yakuza family protecting a scrap yard but things change as the second in command of Hiroshima's biggest yakuza gang is assassinated and the boss Muraoka steps down triggering a rush for the power as Yamamori has his eyes on the prize. Hirono must do some manoeuvring to ally himself with the strongest in order to survive. This film is weakest due to it's plot which goes back and forth: tempers rise between two gangs and we are on the edge of war when suddenly it is diffused; then later again a war is about break out but is again diffused, leaving the film to never explode into the violent gang war the title suggests. What is also laughable is two main yakuza bosses burst into tears on the slightest provocation is just idiotic. Worth a watch for the sake of completion this sequel is average yet no way as good as the first two.

The Fourth Part: Police Tactics, is a improvement on the weak Proxy War and is set during Tokyo 1963 Olympics it picks up with a more exciting plot, in the beginning both sides Yamamori and Hirono each gathering troops together and waiting for a incident to spark full-scale war; but their plans are hampered by heavy Police crackdowns on all the Yakuza gangs from heavy pressure from the public. Although that doesn't stop hot-headed youths planned and exacting assassination attempts as Hirono finally plans to take out Yamamori (a big change for his usual inaction in the previous instalments). More happens in this fourth chapter and it boasts more action and a exciting plot that makes this a must see and much better than the Third Part.

The Fifth Part: The Final Chapter closes the long series, A large Tensei coalition is formed between all the Yakuza gangs in order to avoid more wars. But when the experienced leader is sent to prison and a much younger but nevertheless smart yakuza takes over, a divide is spilt as some of the older yakuza plan to take over. At the centre of the film is the clash between the older yakuza who became big in the forties and now find themselves slightly redundant as the younger more with it yakuza of seventies modern generation take charge.

In the time The Yakuza Papers was released in the 70s it was a quite a change of pace for Yakuza films: gone are the noble heroes driven by honour and who uphold the Yakuza Codes such as in Theater of Life (1965), Brutal Tales of Chivalry (1965) or The Wolves (1971) and in are Yakuzas without nobility or honour; but even though this may be true to most of the characters it is not to the main character Hirono as he is one the few to actually uphold and respect the code even if some yakuza do not deserve it (Yamamori).

The films are also enjoyable for their fast pace and intricate power struggles and plans  and can become confusing and complex and you can lose track of the plot but the boxset comes with a helpful booklet recounting the deaths and different gangs present in each part and this is far better than Senju Suzuki's incoherent and idiotic Yakuza films. My only gripe with the series is the gun shots sound fake and we never see any large scale gang battles (with exception of a gripping attack by Sonny Chiba's mad dog with his gang in Part II) the action is mostly confined to assassination attempts and attacks. Lastly some of the reviewers claim these films are comparable to the Godfather this is a totally misguided comment this series has none of the elegance, intelligence or pathos or The Gofather but this series is not trying to be a classic it is only a entertaining gangster series nothing more. Home Vision Transfer is brilliant and nicely remastered with a very good English subtitle translation, in conclusion whether bought separately or as the boxset this is much watch for Yakuza fans.