A lot of people reviewing this film are defending it by saying it's just like TROMA or movies from the 50's - 60's. Well what I say to you is I like those films I just don't think this film is any good period. I don't care what feeling they are going for.. its just plain bad. Basically what they do is create an anthology with movies that would have come out in the 50's, 60's or in the case of "The Diary of Anne Frankenstein" the 30's and just throw in a bunch of ludicrous TROMA jokes. If you have ever met someone who tries to be really funny and just come off as being annoying that is this movie in a nutshell only luckily you can actually avoid that entirely by just not watching the film at all.

The plot is pretty straight forward really. There is a wrap-around story called "Zom-B-Movie" that takes place at the Chillerama where they are showing 4 different movies. Yes some of the reviews here left out the worst film of them all "Deathication" probably because it doesn't play all the way through because the reel gets knocked off. But the other films are "Wadzilla", a take off on Godzilla and the Blob, "I Was a Teenage Were-Bear", basically a beach musical from the 60's, and lastly "The Diary of Anne Frankenstein", which is just a rip on classic monster movies. None of which have any kind of redeeming value.

The sad thing about this film however is how much real talent is behind this film that was entirely wasted. Joe Lynch (Wrong Turn 2), Adam Green (Hatchet, Frozen), Tim Sullivan (Driftwood, 2001 Maniacs) and Adam Rifkin. These guys are really great directors who completely wasted there time on this effort which could have been used making a real decent "Tales of the Crypt" style anthology. How often does talent like this get together to make a movie? Not often due to conflict in schedules and all other kinds of things. So if you are a fan of these guys and this movie piqued your interest.. do some research before watching it. If you don't like TROMA, don't even think about checking this one out. It is definitely an acquired taste.