If you prefer "news" not to be prepackaged in cotton fluff and you want to determine opinions based on 20/20 vision, you can't miss this, but be prepared for heart wrenching scenes.

It does affect a person seeing the brutal reality and turns even the most bleeding heart liberal into more of a realist. These regimes are made with bullets not ballots. Westerners will naturally judge things from their own experiences, but most westerners have not witnessed what living under these brutal regimes are like. Like Code Pink and other westerners going over to act as  "human shields" for Saddam. The people of Iraq literally called them fools.

This video does give more moral justification for us going in to Iraq, but we will never be privy to what insiders saw of the intel as their reason for the congressional bipartisan agreement to go in. We can get a glimpse in the Pentagon report "Saddam and Terrorism: Emerging Insights from Captured Iraqi Documents Volume 1" Where it is clearly shown Saddam directly funded the root organization of Al Qaeda (Egyptian Islamic Jihad) both prior and during the planning and undertaking of 911.

After years of intense study, I believe Saddam not only had knowledge of 911 before it happened, but participated in the orchestration of it, despite the many media smokescreens going up claiming that Osama and Saddam did not get along with one another. Osama was listed as an "asset" in the Iraqi govt.

On July 21, 2001, Saddam's publication "Al-Nasiriya"  praised Osama Bin Laden. and adds " he will strike America on the arm that is already hurting (ref to 1993 WTC Bombing) That the man . . . will curse the memory of Frank Sinatra every time he hears his songs." This is a reference to Sinatra's "New York, New York"

The 1993 attempt to take down the towers failed. Ramzi Yousef (who says he has converted to Christianity during his imprisonment in Supermax) architect of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, arrived in America on an Iraqi passport before fleeing after the attack on Pakistani papers. Abdul Rahman Yasin, indicted for mixing the chemicals for the bomb, fled to Baghdad after the attack and lived there for years afterward. New evidence shows that Saddam's regime provided money and housing to Yasin.

There is so much more.