Then, Red Dragon is Ok, worth seeing. But, DO NOT MISS "MANHUNTER"!
Aside from some 80's stylings, most notably the closing music over the credits, while still fitting, dates Manhunter, however, appropriately.
Red Dragon is only compelling in that you "Get More", of the book.
The ending is truer.
The acting, and directing is clumsy.
It's difficult to watch Ed Norton fumble through Will Graham's wondeful legacy of Peterson's portrayol in "Manhunter".
Worse still, is watching Anthony Hopkins spew the same lines as Brian Cox, as the "Original" Hannibal Lechtor. Hideous.
Oh, Tony adds his own "Lechtorism's, but, this film is a money grab.
It's odd too, because Dino owns "Manhunter"!!
So, this movie is ONLY a Remake!
When you watch "Manhunter", you will see where Clarissa got her lines.....
"Silence", is the direct descendant of "Manhunter".
And, with Hannibal (the movie, not the book), being left unfinished, there will more than likely be another money grab, hopefully, however, from a book as brilliantly written as the first three.
Make no mistake, Red Dragon exists, simply to "fill a gap" in time, where something can be sold to those of us, who want more "Lechtor".
Manhunter is by far, the superior Movie.
The film's color, and score, all add to the tension, that was only since recaptured in "Silence".
In years to come, Manhunter will stand as the far more mature movie, as it draws on more time honored cinematic core values. 
Red Dragon is difficult to watch also, with Lechtor's and Chilton's charachters, hopelessly "Made up" to look as if they're 20 some years younger than (the actors) actually are! It looks silly.
Yes, in the original movie, they were afraid "Red Dragon" would denote a karate film. "Manhunter" is derived from the fact that Will Graham, is Hunting the new serial killer, Frances Dolarhyde.
Bottom Line: I wouldn't advise you miss this movie, if you like the series. But, certainly don't choose this over the real original: "Manhunter". See them both, if you must.....
Dream much, Will?
Pete