This is a well written book. There are some reviewers who seemed to be confused about the nature or identity of the 'Universal Source' referred by Dr. Dyer. There should be really no confusion. The 'source' is God. I am not sure why Dr. Dyer was reluctant to be more explicit. For some reason, he could not bring himself up to doing so. This is one of the great failing of many a human being. Even those who are far more enlightened than the average person, like Dr. Dyer, is more comfortable in referring to the impersonal aspect of God rather than refer to him as a person.

Various religious systems take a impersonal or personal concept of a supreme being. Both are correct, but impersonal concept is a limited concept of the supreme being. The Hindu religion talks of three different aspect of the supreme being -- 1) The plenary form that resides along with the individual soul (Jivatma) in all living beings and is called the Paramatma. This form exists in our hearts and is there as a friend and a witness. 2) The impersonal Brahman which is really the spiritual effulgence of the supreme lord that permeates the material and spiritual universes. It is the source of all knowledge and bliss. This is the 'Universal Source'. Many impersonalists who meditate on the void want to merge with this form and attain eternal bliss. This concept appeals to those who are intellectually oriented. When people attain enlightenment and those who claim that everyone is the same as God, they are talking about this. 3) The Supreme Lord exists as a Person (like you and me). We living beings are part and parcel of the supreme and we have ALL the qualities of the Supreme though in minute quantities. We are qualitatively the same as God, but not quantitatively. We are finite while he is infinite. But, God is a Person. It is only when you surrender to the Personal form of God and perform loving devotional service you attain the kingdom of God. Every other route is inferior and temporary.

So, the Universal source is God. God is full of bliss and knowledge. When someone asks how could there be ignorance and pain and suffering in this world if God exists, you need to understand that there is no such thing as ignorance, it is absence of knowledge. Suffering is lack of happiness. Just like there is no such thing as 'darkness', only absence of light. We have made a choice to be away from God (or Universal Source) and hence we suffer. Dr. Dyer through his book is trying to awaken within us what we have forgotten -- Our eternal loving relationship with the Supreme being who wants us to go back to him and be happy. Just the process of attempting to establish that link with the Supreme will make our time on this earth very rewarding. The gift of this book is that it puts us on the right path.