This was probably the only Next Generation movie I really liked.  I mean, it's awesome.  I thought it was the only one that was as good as the television show.  I would put this at the top tier of all Star Trek movies, just below "Wrath of Khan" and the 2009 reboot.  It still remains one of the best Sci-Fi movies of all time.  Now the film is not perfect.  There are a few problems I had with it.  Most of those problems have to do with continuity issues between the movie and the TV show.  I'll get into those later in the review.

The movie centers around the Borg, the half-machine, half-organic aliens from the series.  Considering that they were probably the most popular villians from the series, it made sense to make them the villians of the new movie.  The plot involves the Borg going back in time to the year 2063.  This is supposedly the year when we first invent the warp engine and meet the Vulcans for the first time.  The Borg want to stop that from happening, and they want to enslave the human race.  The Enterprise follows them back through time and blow up the Borg ship.  The Borg beam over to the Enterprise and begin assimilating the crew.  So you've got a movie that has the Borg, and time travel.  Doesn't get any better than this.

At this point the movie branches off into two plot lines.  One plot involves Picard and most of the crew trying to defeat the Borg on the ship.  The other involves Riker and the rest of the crew on the planet helping Zephram Cochrane, the man who is supposed to invent warp speed.  He is unsure about his calling, and Riker has to convince him to go through with his flight.  Both of these plots are excellent.  In fact, each one by itself is good enough for a whole movie.  So my question is, why didn't they make one movie about the Borg, and another movie about someone trying to screw up the timeline?  Putting both these plots in one movie made the movie awesome, but it made this movie hard to top.  Of the two Next Generation films that came after this movie, neither one of them measured up tp this one.  Maybe for the later movies, they should have used villians from the series again.  But that's a whole different review.

About halfway through the movie, the villian of the movie is introduced.  The Borg queen.  This is my only big problem with the movie.  On the show, it is established that the Borg exist as one consciousness, entity, and there are no leaders or subordinates.  So all of a sudden, they have a queen?  On the behind the scenes stuff, one of the writers or producers said that not having a main villian worked on the show, but it didn't really work in a movie.  I can kinda see where they were coming from, but they really needed to follow the continuity of the source material.  The Borg queen just makes no sense.  The fact that she exests makes no sense, and most of her dialogue makes no sense.  They say that she was on the ship with Picard when he was turned into a Borg and the TV episode "Best of both Worlds".  At the end of the episode, the Borg ship is destroyed.  If the queen was supposedly on it, then she would have been destroyed as well.  When Picard comments on this, she responds with "You think in such 3-dimensional terms".  What does that mean?  Is that supposed to have a meaning?  Whatever.

But thankfully, the Borg Queen doesn't have all that much screen time.  So if you can just get past her annoying presence and the continuity errors, you should enjoy this movie.  In fact, this is one of the three Star Trek movies that I think could appeal to mainstream audiences (the other two being voyage home and the 2009 reboot).  Most of the charcter development is great, the action is great, the special effects are great, almos teverything about this movie is great.  If this movie had had a strongerr villian, this would probably be my favorite Star Trek movie, even better than Wrath of Khan and the 2009 reboot.