In fall of 2005 when the new television line-up was paraded out for all to see an overlying theme was prevalent in several new shows: horror. Surprisingly, the new genre has produced some of the most entertaining television in years. The WB, a fledgling network in comparison to its older siblings, has launched a television show that not only embodies the spirit of this new horror fascination, its very title defines the current obsession dominating the entertainment industry: Supernatural.
 America's newest preoccupation with death, life after death, and in general all things spooky have produced some pretty interesting television shows these past few seasons. After all, art imitates life, and on the television show Supernatural even art can be both haunted and dangerous. The WB's newest journey into the unexplained is a fiction drama called Supernatural that follows the journey of two brothers who travel the highways of the United States searching for the origins of unexplained tragedy. Every week Dean and Sam Winchester scour the Internet and various newspapers looking for mysterious crimes, bizarre accidents, and unsolved murders. The brothers travel every episode to a new location on an endless road trip with the purpose of silencing the evil that few only know about. Most of the time the brothers find themselves facing off against the inspiration of a well-known ghost or horror story. It's when they find these urban legends or at least the ideas that inspire them that the plot line takes on a whole new level of interest. The fact that a show like Supernatural has a plot at all is amazing. The horror genre is not known for riveting story lines. In Supernatural the plot is detailed and focused and most often is the driving force behind any of the action. Sometimes the plot line can be so involving it becomes a character of its own, just as important, if not more than the show's two male leads.
Women, with few exceptions, are usually damsels in distress for the boys to rescue. Every week either Dean or Sam falls in love with the female the Winchester boys happen to be helping. The only strong female roles seem to belong to women who are supernatural by nature, whether they are ghosts, psychics, or demons. Just recently, there was an episode involving a young woman who was a love interest for Sam and fought along side him. It was an interesting episode, the young woman brought up the issue that women were not just creatures to protect or fear and Sam's obvious conflict with the idea as he claims that every woman around him gets hurt or killed. On a side note, the killer of the week in this same episode was the ghost of a small female child. This was a nice commentary on the internal debate going on between the main characters. This seemingly harmless little girl who appears to be the victim ends up being a formidable villain. Nothing is what it seems. Driven by two strong female characters, the episode is resolved when Sam accepts the idea of getting involved with his most recent love opportunity.  This was quite the huge score for the ladies in that episode.
 A theme addressed in almost every episode is family. Dean and Sam are brothers and when one is in trouble the other will stop at nothing to come to any rescue. John Winchester, the patriarch of this crusading clan isn't around much. In fact, an on-going sub-plot of the first season was the brothers' mission to find their father as he had gone missing on a demon hunt. As unusual as the Winchester family appears, when together, they are a strong force to be reckoned with.
Father/son issues, brother issues, lost love issues; general angst rules the relationships that dominate the main characters of this show.  These men are human; they have very human problems even if what they do for a living is very inhuman. These problems, heightened by unusual circumstances, relate the characters to the show's audience. It's refreshing to see two brothers who care about each other, who miss each other and connect by way of a relationship not overcast by testosterone on television. The humanity of the show is just as important as the fantasy. It keeps the viewers involved.
  Analyzing aside, this is one of the best shows that TV has offered the horror/ sci-fi/ fantasy community in a hell of a long time.  After being frustrated by horribly written clunkers like LOST that just keep viewers positively "lost" in an ever changing plotline, Supernatural actually delivers on the mysteries it presents each week. Sure there are questions about the bigger plot, but secrets are like promises, and when TV shows don't keep their word viewers get frustrated. Supernatural is a fun, fulfilling TV show worthy of praise! I hope that the viewers keep watching and show the big bag networks who's really in charge, (US!) and what we really want!