If Billy Jack movies are your thing, then this is a very good deal. I bought it because I'd seen the first 3 films when I was a kid and wanted to see them again out of nostalgia. I also wanted to see the 4th film - now that I have I can see why it never really got released. It's easily the worst of the lot.

It's funny to see hippies and wannabe flower children praising this dreck. Laughlin's message of pacificity and non-violence is laughable when the moments everyone watches these films for are the ones where Billy takes off his boots and delivers a whooping to "The Man". Doesn't anyone see the hypocrisy in this?

Look how the "Freedom School" students behave. They come across as pretty angry in the second film, and the violence in the third film is totally their fault. What about the "peace" and "love" they keep harping about? The evil townspeople are more reasonable than the supposedly peaceful hippie kids!

Also, Laughlin should have learned the fine art of the edit. There are line flubs that were just left in the film, and as tortuously long as these films are, you have to get the feeling that he put everything he shot into the finished product. Boring speeches, tedious dialogue and horrid folk songs abound! And don't get me started on all of the street-theater and rap-session junk.

Look - Tom Laughlin made a few movies that were wildly successful and made himself a ton of money, that can't be disputed. The first movie is actually not that bad, and the Billy Jack character is at least reasonable in that film. But it all went to hell in a handbasket after that - the last 3 films were pretty horrid.

To all of you who are lauding this stuff, really watch these movies and see what message Laughlin was trying to send - really tune in to his worldview at the time. He saw this country as a hate-filled, ugly nation, and the paranoia represented is over the top. Here's where the grandiosity complex comes in. Who can save us all but someone like Billy Jack? Even though he's the biggest hypocrite of the lot (but I don't think we're supposed to notice that), he's represented as a force of "good". That's highly debatable if you really look at Billy Jack's actions. Look at the stuff Laughlin has written since these films - it's almost like he thinks he really is this movie antihero he's made up.

Laughlin tapped into the counterculture psyche and made a fortune's worth of that filthy green money that hippies so despised. Ironic, hm?

I gave this collection 2 stars only because if you want to torture yourself or a loved one or few, $15 for the set is a good deal. If you aren't a hippie or don't hate yourself, you may want to pass. Peace!