This film is one of the best kept secrets at the video store.  Anyone who enjoys a good romantic story must see this movie. This romantic comedy-drama focuses on the relationships of various couples. This could've  been just another cute little film, but thanks to the witty, intelligent  dialogue and the very talented ensemble cast, it is elevated to so much  more. Although some of the story lines were less than compelling, it was  great to see veterans actors like Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands take such  a modest story line and turn it into something really special. Kudos!  Didn't someone say "there are no small roles, only small  actors?"
Although all the performances were strong, the stand out  performances had to be that of Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe. The  chemistry between these two young actors was earth shaking.  Their screen  romance was very touching and endearing. Even though Jolie has the ability  to completely dominate a scene, Phillippe, playing his role with subtlety  and reserve, was able to hold his own.  His performance was so real and  moving, that once us men folk can get over the fact that our ladies are  swooning over him, we have to admit this dude can act.  As for Jolie, I  think no one can deny her obvious talent.  With this role, like many of her  others, she is able to generate so much passion, sensuality, and  exuberance.  Her larger-than-life persona almost "devours" the  film, audience and all.  Personally, I enjoyed when Phillippe's character  was able to take Jolie's down a couple notches. While I liked the film as a  whole, I secretly wanted more screen time for these two actors. Hopefully,  soon these two rising stars will be paired again in another picture.  Hollywood, you better hop to it while you still can afford them!
Overall,  Playing By Heart was a wonderful film with smart dialogue, an excellent  cast and a clever ending. This film restored my faith in romance. Well, at  least at the movies.  If you are not in some small way touched by this  picture, I suggest you see your doctor right away.  You might not have a  pulse!