I just ordered my DVD but my original thoughts were blogged on July 18, and they still stand; well, of course:

Whether you are or aren't an acolyte of Joss Whedon, do yourself a favor and view this 45-minute serial TV show made for the Internet (and now on DVD).

This was an experiment devised by Whedon, two of his brothers, a writer friend of theirs, and countless others who contributed, during the fairly recent (now months ago) WGA strike.  The artists on this project basically worked for free, with Joss Whedon and a few others ponying up the funds.

Dr. Horrible is the tale of a mad scientist (Neil Patrick Harris), would-be villain who wants with his entire being to be part of the Evil League of Evil, run by an Uber-Villain Overlord named Bad Horse.  Why?  He's in love with a girl named Penny, who he's afraid to talk to but wants to rule the world with.  She in turn falls for a big lug with half a brain called Captain Hammer.  Hammer and Dr. H have a hate-hate relationship, mostly because Hammer keeps giving him beatings and messing up his plans for world domination.

Did I mention it's a musical?  The whole thing is brilliantly devised; archetypes of villains and heroes turned on their head, a sweet young thing who is their innocent catalyst for change, and a tuneful score which harks to musical theatre influences ... some Bernstein, some  Schwartz, with emphasis on Sondheim.  Whedon and his co-writers obviously love language and know how to use it to warp the woof of an oft-told tale; good vs. evil.  But just who is good and who is evil?  And for whom will you weep when the story is through?

Write and tell me.  I'd like to know what you thought.

On the surface, looking at photos, reading synopses here and there, you might be fooled that this is just a trifle, a silly confection.  Those unfamiliar with Whedon's previous artistic outings are in for a surprise.  The ending is being hotly debated even as I write this.  There's a lot for everyone here; musical enthusiasts to comic-book fans, to dramaturgs.

Watch how well the tone shifts from Act to Act, with the music supporting all the action.  Act I is the honeymoon, Act II the divorce, and Act III "the great black pit" in more ways than one.

Neil Patrick Harris is a star - if that wasn't already clear.  His singing and acting runs the gamut from sweetly hopeful, to sarcastic, to morose, to black outrage and despair.  If Act III doesn't prove that you can become hollowed out through your own mistaken desires, nothing will.

Nathan Fillion plays the "Hero," Captain Hammer.  I don't want to give too much away if you haven't seen it yet, but let's just say his performance is the perfect capital P for pompous.  I'm not surprised he delivers on the singing - a very talented man who is not afraid to spoof his own image as someone who is adored, but in a totally obnoxious way.  He's equal parts lecherous Judge Turpin from Sweeney Todd and Judd Frye from Oklahoma.  Not easy to pull off.

Felicia Day (who has her own show The Guild on the Internet Highway) plays Penny, the innocent ingenue who tries to stay positive in a wicked, bad world.  Tries to make a difference despite indifference.  Day is competent, sweet and smart in a role that doesn't give her much to do.  It felt as though she really had to pull back her own personality to make it fit within the confines of a role that doesn't change or grow.  But she is there for a definite purpose.

How we could be taken on this journey in such a short series. I'm a believer that all things are possible. Especially when there's Whedons involved.