I am a huge fan of Glee. I own the first two seasons and watched season 3 wanting to like it.
I didn't. In fact, one of the episodes, 'On My Way' is so offensive (doesn't even come with a warning for suicide, even though The First Time had a T rating because two male characters kissed) that I rage when people talk about it being such an enlightening episode. I'm sorry, but as great as an actor Max Adler is, his character is not deserving of my sympathy. Especially when it's being used as a cheap device for more viewers, there is nothing I hate more than using SUICIDE as a marketing ploy.

Not to mention the careless way they handled the near death of a regular, and then in the next episode, she's fine and everything is okay, she's just in a wheelchair for a few episodes and goes back to her plotting ways. (because on Glee if you're a girl and not Rachel you are a scheming witch who just needs a guy to show you the right way.)

This show is often praised on the way it handles it's gay and lesbian characters, I would say that they did this well in season 1 and most with season 2, however season 3 is a different story. Season 3 saw Kurt lose a student election to Brittany, who later forgot she even won, have to face the awful Sebastian (the Warbler story line this year was completely unnecessary and just threw everything that was Dalton in Season 2 down the drain), and then not get into the school of his dreams even though he aced his audition. Kurt this year was more of Rachel's gay accessory than an actual character, unfortunate because Chris Colfer is amazing in every scene he's in, a GOLDEN GLOBE actor, and yet, he is off in the sidelines. I would also like to point out that in the episodes Kurt, and his boyfriend Blaine (played by Darren Criss) were in (DwS, TFT) they nail every scene and you can so easily tell they are in love with each other.

Probably why they cut out their Christmas scene of exchanging presents, (a scene that was shown in promotional pictures but cut from the episode because it ran too long, or so the homophobics say at Fox.) because to see Blaine and Kurt's honest and so real relationship and then to see the disaster that is Rachel and Finn, you'd wonder why this show picks to focus on Finchel.

Coincidentally, that Christmas scene was promised to be on this season 3 boxset, but we all know how much Glee hates their fans, and so we obviously see that it is not listed. I will not be spending my money to please the people at Fox that thinks this is the right way to write a show. Especially at an extra $20.

And really, no one gives two cents about Will & Emma, or Sue. These special features are more of a kick in the face than anything else. I'd much rather see deleted scenes, bloopers, the Behind the scenes specials they put on the internet, or anything dealing with the choreography with Zach Woodlee.

So don't waste your money. Buy the 3 semi-decent episodes off itunes or amazon and be done with this. I only hope they get canceled before they make a worse episode than OMW.