Having just seen this film again after many years---I doubt I was mature enough to fully appreciate it earlier---I happily agree with Grammar Girl's excellent comments which mainly speak my own current take.

I thought Coppola's screenplay---even the version that got made-- was faithful to Fitzgerald's work: it was nuanced, dense with insights and the potential for the portrayal of complex feelings if rendered properly by the cast, which it was.  It captured the essence of the tragedy of people who have serious money and nothing else... certainly not depth, real intelligence, the curiosity that marks it... or character.  This, unfortunately, is a contingency which knows no circa; The Lost Generation lives, perhaps now, more even than once, given the increasing disparity of wealth.  The Hamptons---once cheap land comprising potato farms---house the current incarnation of the halcyon days of The North Shore of LI.....but are surely marked by no less excess and decadence.

Fact is, Coppola, who replaced Truman Capote, who originally hired to do the screenplay (Vladimir Nabokov and Philip Roth were called in to make changes toward the end), said bitterly, the script he wrote did not get made. Boy, would I like to see the untampered with original!

Mia Farrow (pregnant during the shoot), whom I generally find puerile, ersatz and cloying, manifested all of those qualities in her performance, and all were, at least this time, indigenous to the character she played, and so, for once, appropriate.  Daisy was a high maintenance-defining, incredibly fragile, and you bet, shallow, boring, patinated female who could do nothing even mundane for herself.  She was abysmally atrophied and infantile---not at all the same as elegant, to be sure.  Her husband, Tom Buchanan, was an ignorant, bigoted, ignoble boor.  They were perfectly matched.

I think Redford was well cast and formidable as Jay Gatsby, a pitiably self deluded romantic of the sort only somebody scarred by early poverty and so, obliterating yearnings and truncation.  A pitiably driven man with exceptional, unrealized potential relegated blindly to trying to aspire to the tenets of a milieu of abject poverty....albeit not a poverty of dead Presidents.  He didn't love Daisy he was incapable of knowing Daisy.  He was tragically obsessed by what she represented in the face of his early deprivation.  His inability to connect to what and who she really was, was his undoing.  Very Greek tragedy, very neo Shakespearean, what's not to love?

A magnificently cast Sam Waterston, then 34, conveyed more, as he continued to do and still does, via his face and demeanor than, I am convinced, any other actor could.

For me, all the casting choices, performances and direction were spot on.  Also, the choice of locales involving properties in many states.

While Theoni Aldredge won an Oscar for her costume design for the women, for me, her work was over the top and excessive caricature.  Flappers, even the most sybaritic among them, did not mostly wear vivid sherbet colors and cotton candy garden dresses, they wore dropped waists,  neutral colors, wineglass heels and often, tiered skirted dresses.  And so, for me, the women's' costumes were seriously distracting, not augmenting. Including even, Ms. Farrow's main wig, which should have been a style closer to the head and with the classic Marcel waves of the era.  I also thought the men's costumes via Ralph Lauren (`POLO' not exactly an arbitrarily chosen brand name) ---not unlike Jay Gatsby (read, Gatz,) himself---failed shamefully.  The suits he designed for the film were wince-making New Money Ralph Lauren of the 70s....hardly faithful to what the monied male demographic of 1922 wore:cuffed trousers,mostly vested suits with high waisted jackets and narrow lapels; ties narrower than what Mr. Lauren designed for the film.  And the men at Gatsby's parties were shown wearing already then out of fashion tail coats, not the short tuxedo jackets men of the era chose. I will say, Mr. Lauren mostly got the sweaters right. At the time, at least none of it was made in sweat shops in China as all his stuff is now.

Another nit-picking beef of mine centers on Daisy's giant engagement ring.  Huge might be appropriate, but Cartier, the source of the Bling, supplied a giant Marquise cut engagement ring, one must assume, at the request of Ms. Aldridge.  Would Daisy have chosen or accepted such in 1922? Would Rachel Zoe now?(lol) Marquise cuts are usually made to maximize final size and to circumvent serious flaws in a Less Than,inferior rough, after all.  Every small part of a work impacts.

But I too encourage everyone to see this generally splendid production of a great American novel written by a humanly imperfect genius.  And I'll be most interested in seeing the upcoming production staring Leonardo DiCaprio.