(THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS NEAR THE END!!!)  I saw this on HBO while on a business trip, sort of against my will, as I couldn't find anything else on TV.  I was pleasantly surprised, as it's a really good movie (as long as you aren't overly analytical about it).

Ryan Reynolds plays Will, a 30-something dad with a 10 year old daughter, Maya, (played beautifully by Abagail Breslin).  Will is on the verge of divorce from his wife/Maya's mother.  Maya is clearly upset by the upcoming split, and an ill-timed sex ed class (isn't 10 a little young for Sex Ed?  I've forgotten...) triggers lots of questions for her dad about how he met her mother and why he married her.  He proceeds to tell Maya the story of the three women he has loved without disclosing which one is her mother.

Disclaimers:
1)  You have to suspend your logic while watching this movie, as Breslin is precocious well beyond her years and asks questions and makes insightful observations many adults don't make.
2)  This review has a few SPOILERS in it - not anything you can't figure out, but I some folks don't want to know what happens.

I think there are many things to recommend this film:
1) The chemistry between Will and Maya is great...  They play the father/daughter combo with aplomb.  Breslin is great (as she was in Little Miss Sunshine).
2) Summer (played by Rachel Weisz) and April (played by Isla Fisher) are great as two of Will's loves.  Each plays a perfect character that complements Will.  You get a real sense of how he could have ended up with either of them (and almost does, or does).
3) Ryan Reynolds is quite effective as a more complex character - it is a real treat to see Van Wilder's deeper side.  It's clear from Reynolds' other roles that he has range.  He hasn't picked very many vehicles before this that display it.  It suits him.

The biggest issue with the film? (Here's a SPOILER!).  Ironically,  I was least impressed with Emily (Elizabeth Banks), his college sweetheart. She is the woman who is eventually turns out to be Will's wife/Maya's mom.  She seemed shallower than the other two characters, and it was difficult for me to figure out why Will would have married her.  While Summer lets him down in pursuit of career advancement, and April seems too mercurial to him and their timing just doesn't match, Emily cheats on Will the first time around with his piggish, chauvinistic roommate Charlie (completely far fetched, unless she is a complete idiot), and then reappears with the weak premise that "maybe our timing was off the first time", which Will inexplicably buys hook, line, and sinker.  It leaves me momentarily thinking less of Will.  You also cringe at times at Will's "full disclosure" to Maya of his romantic/sex life.  It is a bit extensive (even if she did just have a sex ed class) with mentions of threesomes and more detail than most fathers would give their 10 (or 30) year old daughters.

All in all, highly recommended.  My wife and I liked it so much we bought it.