Charles MacArthur and Ben Hecht wrote the script for this movie. Howard Hawkes directed. It stars Carole Lombard and John Barrymore as a sort of Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne couple. These Hollywood glitterati and literati collaborated to make this sparkling champagne freshet of a movie that should be brought back into wide circulation. Much of it comes across as crisp, modern, and even technologically ahead of its time - as when Barrymore orders a phone tap in an attempt to catch his wife in what he believes are her frequent infidelities.

There might not be many belly laughs here, although I did literally LOL at least once. Barrymore boards the Twentieth Century train in heavy disguise in an attempt to evade his creditors. Once sequestered aboard in his compartment, he laments his dismal situation, meanwhile tugging at the putty on his nose. He pulls the putty into a longer and longer taffy extension, until he's unwittingly achieved a veritable Pinocchio proboscis. Finally, when neither nose nor man is able to sustain any further prolongation of their misery - they droop in unison. It's a hilarious scene.

Barrymore is in top form here. He generally disdained movies, believing they were beneath him. He regarded the legitimate theater as the only medium for the true actor. As a result, he usually chewed up the scenery in his movie rolls, leaving his characters mercilessly shredded. Here though, he strikes just the right note of hamminess. He stops short of being over-the-top in any scene, but retains the kind of antic energy that this sort of madcap comedy calls for.

Barrymore is also at his most handsome in this film. The viewer can readily see how he got the cognomen "The Great Profile." It's a pleasure to go back to a time when there were, not "media figures," but "matinee idols." The latter rarified creatures radiated unattainably from the silver screen - beyond the trivializations of paparazzi or talk shows. This movie allows that sort of transport.

"Twentieth Century" allows another kind of transport though. It might be of special interest to train buffs. Since the real Twentieth Century train made its last run a few years ago, it left many train club members especially eager to collect memorabilia from those old glory days of cross-country luxury travel. It's unlikely that any of the interior train shots in this movie are authentic. Those are probably all just studio lot sets. However there are a few shots of what I took to be the actual Twentieth Century train pulling into New York's Grand Central Station in the early 1930's. Train enthusiasts might like to check out "Twentieth Century" for these shots alone.

Anyone else who would just like to roll along with some breezy, fast-paced dialogue in the company of Hollywood legends - will also want to get on-board.