This movie, in my honest opinion, will go down as a underated classic in the Martial Arts genre of films. Everything about Jet Li's Fearless is awesome, and downright amazing. First, let's start with the characters; Jet Li's main character is developed very well in this movie. He starts off as a young boy, eager to learn Wushu, but is prohibited by his father. After watching his father battle a rival wushi martial artist, he is disappointed to see him lose. The rivals father has a son, who beats up the young Jet Li - then it begins: he swears to never lose a fight and begins to train by himself at a young age to master his fathers form of wushu. After many battles, he determined to become the best, and even defeats the young man who beat him up when he was a little boy. And this is just the begining of his journey.

But with all this success, comes a price - and this is what the movie delves into. It goes into paying the price for murder, and the consquences of seeking revenge. It goes into hope and redemption for those that have err'd in there way. It has a very good theme, and the acting is great. The movies soundtrack is also very fitting.

Now onto the fight scenes. The fight scenes are incredible. A mix of realism and fantasy keeps them entertaining and fresh - if your worried about "over-the-top" fighting, where guys go flying 50 feet everywhere and blood spills all over the place; fret not, there is none of that here. This isn't to say there isn't any fantasy in the fight scenes, but they keep it within reason, and play it off as something believable. The camera angles and sound effects they used during the fight scenes are all excellent. The sound is clear - you can feel every punch, and hear the clashing of every sword. I highly recommend an awesome sound system, or a very nice pair of headphones if you want it real loud in your ears. Easly some of the best fight scenes to ever be filmed. Ever (yes, this easly rivals the old Bruce Lee movies).

The only problem with this movie is the 45min gap in the middle where nothing is really happening. While this does give the movie a break from the non-stop action, it is quite, well, boring. But it does add to Jet Li's character and is a needed to help push the setup for his return to the ring, and to bring honor back to the men of Asia.

Overall: 5 stars. A definite must-see for any martial arts fan, or action movie person.