In the DVD commentary, series producer Barry Sonnenfeld exclaims, "This is the best thing I've ever directed".  After The Addams Family and Men in Black 2 I'm reluctant to think that's encouraging.  I'd like to think that this is by far the best live action sitcom based on a cartoon, that's based on a comic book, that's based on a demented arachnid, that stars Patrick Warburton, that's directed by Barry Sonnenfeld, or THE FUNNIEST SUPER HERO SERIES SINCE ADAM WEST DANCED THE BATUSI!
Everything just comes together in this series.  From Patrick Warbuton in the part he was born to play to Ben Edlund's extremely quotable dialogue.  "Aurthur's broken.  We need 200 ccs of tender loving care, stat".  "No it was 10:04, I remember because I was playing shout out the time".  "I sure would like a slice of your righteous combat pie".
For members of The Tick's Secret Society, and you know who you are, there are a few changes from the past incarnations.  Abandoning the usual super hero fare and opting instead for a Sienfeldesque super heroes in a coffee shop show.  Some ideas remain including The Red Scare, The Terror and the side kick episode.  It's a shame that the show was cancelled before the inevitable "The Tick vs. Barry The Tick" Episode.
Saban owned the rights to all characters but The Tick and Arthur, so you won't see Man Eating Cow, Chairface Chippendale, El Seed, Die Fledermaus or American Maid.  Although they are missed Nestor Carbonell's Spanish gigolo BatManuell is possibly an improvement over the one joke Die Fledermaus.  David Burke who doesn't quite fit the physical attributes of the comic book Arthur nails the neurotic non-side-kick perfectly.  Liz Vassey's Captain Liberty is the weakest link as the Elaine of this Sienfield super quartet, but her character doesn't have as much to do as the other players.  She works with what she has, delivering her lines with a hilarious rapid-fire timing.
Director Barry Sonnenfeld, writer Ben Edlund, producer Larry Charles and actor Patrick Warburton seem to have been destined for their roles here. Notable guests are Dave Foley as the super hero deprogrammer and Ron Pearlman as Fiery Blaze.  Bo Welch, long-time Tim Burton collaborator, provides the production design.  The limited budget seems to be a help instead of a hindrance, adding to the "super heroes in their down time" feel.
The DVD extras aren't much to talk about, just some commentary on a few episodes, but I'm happy seeing this series on DVD at all.  I don't expect this DVD will sell enough copies to warrant a series revival, a la Family Guy, but I hope it will generate enough revenue that FOX can start production on "The World's Dumbest Television Execs".