That's the only negative comment I have about this set: that you really need to get (or make) a stand for this, perhaps a replicate version of the one used on the actual show. It's not so much a negative criticism as it is a bit of advice--the set puts other complete series sets to shame and deserves a great presentation in the entertainment room (or attic).

The show itself has its ups, its downs, its in-betweens, but, generally speaking, it holds up fairly well as a show about three sisters and their whitelighter. It has plenty of camp appeal, plenty of teen appeal, plenty of 18-24 male appeal, etc. If skeptical TV watchers have shied away from this because of the fantasy element, they'd do well to realize that "Charmed" has a little bit of something for everything. Although I typically shy away from that sort of media, "Charmed" manages to avoid taking itself too seriously which is what makes it enjoyable. Watch it with mom, dad, brother, sister, cousin, grandpa, whoever.

Now, the set, as I've said, is fantastic. It's about as close to the real Book of Shadows as you'd expect; actually more than expected. The individual releases are all a bit cheap and tacky looking. Slim sets, all basically looking the same except with different colors. Eh. Not interesting. In fact, that's what made me think of the show as "cheap", as something not worth watching.

The book is in very sturdy hardback, with fairly thick pages. Best of all, many of the pages have very sharp looking reproductions of a selection of the screen-used pages. Again, they are exactly the opposite of "cheap". Best of all--in comparison with the regular edition of this set--the pages have little cardboard pieces for the discs; none of that sticking-DVDs-in-paper-slits stuff.

There's really not much else to say about it, except that it's a shame that the set isn't widely available. If you can find a used copy of it, or perhaps a leftover copy at a Borders or other retailer, snatch it up! I found mine at a Borders towards the end of February, and was able to use a Borders Rewards coupon to bring the price down to about $230, only $60 more than the smaller edition--which isn't bad because you really get a lot more bang for your buck.