Pros:
The new version of the hit "rat pack" movie OCEANS ELEVEN kicks [rear]! This movie is awesome, the plot is a little out rageous, but they pull it off, and its not what your expecting. It just keeps you on the edge till the last 5 min of the movie..awesome ending! 
But your like oh my goodnes! when are they coming out with a new one?!?!? Although it finishes this story..your like..what are they gonna do now? The movie finishes in the way that you know there is gonna be a sequel, and i believe its box office success secures that. 
Pitt and Clooney (dont take this the wrong way) work so well together on screen, its like you want them together all the time, cause they're hilarious..almost like geere and roberts..just not in that way! I actually saw this movie for Damon, and i honestly thought he would steal the movie, but no, brad did..when he dressed up like a doctor is when i lost it. 
Cons
One of the things (not a major deal) is that characters (ecspecially pitt) would just disapear from the movie for a while, and trust me, pitt could've been in this movie more! 
This movie is awesome, and THE MOVIE get's 5 stars, and if i was reviewing the movie, that's what i'd give it..but im sorry the dvd [stinks]! Don't get me wrong, i bought it! But, it just would've been better if well...a little more money was put in it!
For one thing, there are two different versions (more dvd's are doing this now), instead of making it a double disk with both wide and full screen, there is the widescreen dvd, and the fullscreen dvd..so if for some reason you like fullscreen...(you do get a better picture experience from widescreen!) and then you want a widescreen..you'll just have to get 2!
There is a ton of features, but just not a lot of glitz, i know its only the movie that counts.but it gives u  kinda the feel you get when you purchase one of those 7.00 dvd's from [a local store]..not to much..no flashy intros really..cool game though. 
The packaging is also very poor, going back to the original cardboard and plastic case, instead of full plastic...you know what this means....SPECIAL EDITION! Look at Men In Black there wer like 3 versions...and all of them just got glitzier and glitzier....so theres hope for that..
Well there's my review...buy the movie, its awesome, you wont be disapointed!