As I've grown in maturity, my tastes have changed in many respects.  For most of my adult life my favorite Christmas story has been Charles Dickens classic scenario "A Christmas Carol" written in 1843 and which still remains as one of my favorite Christmas classics.  In fact the movie rendition by Alastair Sim is indeed a Christmas ritual to be seen by all.  With the last 20 years I've changed my mind as to the ultimate "Christmas Story".
 Up front, I must confess that this classic movie was indeed shot and is deeply ensconced into the very fabric of Cleveland culture.  The very house in the movie scenes is now a museum on the near west side of Cleveland.  The very mention of "The Higbee Company" issues the very essence of "A Christmas Story".  When these scenes were shot in January of 1983, I remember the cold sweeping winds coming off Lake Erie putting Northeast Ohio in a deep freeze.
 The story itself remains a classic in American culture.  Set in the fictional city of Hohman, Indiana all the dreams and culture of pre-World War II America presents itself.  In fact from a historical point of view the Depression was in fact over and America, not at war, was in the beginnings of unprecedented prosperity.  The actual beginning of life in America as it should be.  In fact Ralphie experienced life on the upswing.
 The fact of this pre-adolescent receiving a treasured Christmas present shows the rise of the middle class which has gone unabated since.  The Christmas morning scene in which the "Old Man" stated that he got a BB gun at Ralphie's age shows the end of the depression and the start of the "good times".  However as we watch this movie we can see that discipline 7 decades ago was very real.  Life was indeed more structured and disciplined.  The family not only ate their evening meals together, they also ate their breakfasts as a family unit.  Expectations were tempered and hoped for.  Life was easier but held more accountable.  Life was simple and fraught with troubles but in the end, life had meaning and purpose.
 This story shows us a piece of Americana never to be seen again.  Family life as shown in this movie no longer exists which to me represents the sad passing of an institution which is in desperate need in our 21st century way of life.  It's really no wonder why this story runs a 24 hour Christmas marathon each year.  This is the big screen equivalent of a Norman Rockwell painting representing what American life was.