Peter Weir's "Fearless" addresses many themes that I was (luckily) too young to be familiar with when I first saw it, such as psychological trauma, personal loss and finding the strenght to go on with your life after experiencing a terrible event, and many more. Since then I learnt this can be seen in a broader context than just that of the film.

This is not to say that "Fearless" provides answers to any of the themes mentioned above. Rather, the film explores them, makes them visible to the audience. The film tries to cover as many aspects of surviving a plane crash as possible. While this is fine in itself, it does complicate narrating the main story. Some plotlines are not dealt with in great detail, some characters are somewhat one-dimensional. However, the main plotlines and characters are very strong and stay compelling from beginning to end. Also, I must say I was impressed with particularly Jeff Bridges's and Rosie Perez's acting.

The film also has a spiritual element that might make it less appealing to some viewers. Personally, I think the spirituality was not only handled well, both as a plot element and in the way it was told, I also think a film dealing with life changing events is not complete without it.

After I had first finished watching "Fearless", I was stunned and eager to learn more about especially dealing with loss. I have since rewatched the film a couple of times, each time finding new interesting little details. For example, it was not until the second viewing that I was struck by the beautiful opera music, especially in the end-credits.

After this film I went on to watch more of Jeff Bridges, who I think is a wonderful actor. I would definitely recommend seeing more of his films. Also, for those who liked the spiritual aspect there is the film "What dreams may come" (1998). However, I think "Fearless" is more balanced and much closer to reality.

In all, this film tells a good story, deals with many aspects, has some beautifully shot scenes and is certainly rewatchable.