To Amazon.com Customers,
One of the most exciting SCI-FI television series returns in it's fourth season on DVD. That series being Star Trek: Deep Space Nine season 4 on DVD. In this season of the show, viewers of the program get to experience the full realm and in-depth plots and various stories of conflict which placed Star Trek: Deep Space Nine in high uniqueness among all other Star Trek universe of programs.
In this season of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine the character called Worf played by "Michael Dorn" is introduced into the cast of the show. Worf is brought in to ease the conflict between the Federation and the Klingons. The Klingons are convinced that their life long enemies the Cardassians are being controlled by the Dominion. Season 4 of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine really focuses a great deal on the Klingon Society especially when the introduction of Worf's brother and a elderly Klingon Warrior are brought into the series. These elements come to a conclusion near the end of the season with a stunning episode that makes the audience excited for the next season. 
Also in this season, there is particular emphasis on the character development of the Cardassian Officer Dukat played by "Marc Alaimo". In previous seasons, Dukat appeared briefly in several episodes throughout the program but in season 4, this character takes a more dominate part which will lead to a significant shift in the way Star Trek programs are written. Never before in the history of Star Trek programs has a minor character risen to take a central role in determining the outcome of the story. This event was among a many series of first for Star Trek: Deep Space Nine which would be repeated over and over again. 
In this season, the character called Odo played by "Rene Auberjonois" finally reveals his affection for Kira Nerys played by "Nana Visitor" to others on the station. Odo is tormented by this affection because he also feels a since of belonging to his own changeling people. Trying to bury his feelings into his work, he only realizes even more that his emotions for Kira will way heavy on him even with the imminent possibility that the station will be plunged into a galactic war. Even without knowing Odo's feelings for her Kira Nerys or Major Kira finds new respect for an old enemy and finds compassion in the plight of his daughter Tora Ziyal played by "Cyia Batten". 
In all of this in-depth drama, viewers are treated to views of earth as the character Benjamin Sisko played by "Avery Brooks" returns home to deal with issues regarding the Federation and it's response to possible war with the Klingons and or the  Dominion. Sisko finds himself trouble at all of the events happening around him and returns to his originals and family in a small restaurant in New Orleans. It is these series of episodes that really define the character of the man that would some day be forced to deal with and fight in an eventual war to defend the Federation. 
There is so much more in season 4 of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine that I would encourage you to find out for yourself by purchasing this DVD. Star Trek: Deep Space Nine season 4 has so much in story, theme and character development throughout the series that you certainly find that season 4 is among the best. Star Trek: Deep Space Nine season 4 on DVD is a must have for any SCI-FI fan or Trekker. If you like deep stories, excellent dialog with some very good special effects to enhance the settings, then I would encourage you to purchase Star Trek: Deep Space Nine season 4 on DVD. You will be glad that you did.