"Imagine waking up not knowing who you are & then discovering people are trying to kill you".

Jason Bourne is the exact opposite of the typical spy. The Bourne Identity shreds away every stereotypical clich&eacute; in the spy/espionage genre to create a brilliant paced tale with wonderful layers of action, adventure and thrills to keep you entirely focused on the screen. The Blu-ray contains a memorable film with plenty of extras and suburb video & sound to make this the definitive release of Identity.

Matt Damon is Jason Bourne, a man stricken with amnesia; he can't remember his past, only that he can speak different languages, instantly fight off several men and swiftly evade the people attempting to kill him. This film proves Damon can act & fight as a lost spy in a post 9/11 world, his pleasant, though serious personality makes it a delight to root for him as he discovers his questionable, violent history. Marie, played by Franka Potente, is more than the common girl in distress as she joins in helping Bourne elude a CIA operation called Treadstone, run by Conklin (Chris Cooper), an operative that's not afraid to get his hands dirty. Brian Cox & Julia Stiles round out the supporting cast but don't take up too much screen time, shame as Cox's Abbott seems to be very involved in Bourne's precedent.

Director Doug Liman brings the Robert Ludlum novel to life, updating the story and bringing forth some elements while keeping most of the direction on the characters and main plot. The fight sequences are very realistic and excellent choreographed, matched with a thrilling Mini Cooper chase scene and nail biting final confrontation scene near the finale. The entire picture takes place in the snowy landscape of France and Switzerland as a classical score plays in the background.

The Blu-ray has excellent picture, showcasing the cities at winter time and few explosions in the action centered scenes. The audio matches the picture in excellence, especially to those with a sound system. Plenty of extras such as deleted, extended and alternative scenes, interviews on Robert Ludlum and all the Bourne novels, custom commentary and making of scenes, all the same special features brought over from the DVD release.

Last Words B+, a strong story minus computer effects & common action formula turn the spy genre upside down.