Before there was the Wild wild west with weird little characters like Dr.Loveless running around there was this film,El Toppo.
What is El Toppo?- it would presumably be Western, but that still doesn't give you any idea of the film's content whatsoever. Within the first ten minutes alone, things occur that are already too weird to mention (like grown men shooting at women's shoes and bandits dancing and kissing  monks in what one would guess is someplace in the old west while the gunfighter El Toppo is assisted by his very cute and naked 7 year old son who at times cares a gun as well and actually shoots a man to death.Well, I'd love to summarize the main story lines, but the truth is that I didn't understand one iota of it all. The pivot character El Topo, portrayed by the director himself, rides through the desert with a 7-year-old naked kid in tow.The little boy is truly cute and offers one point of tenderness to the film but before long El Toppo (The mole) abandons the little boy for "spirtual enlightenment"...Hmmm.... He exchanges the kid for a beautiful woman after defeating a gang of thugs and goes on a quest to visit four "masters" of the desert. Subsequently, he joins a community of mountain people and fervently helps them coming out of their dark habitat and into the open world. Yes, it's a very vague description, but that's because I didn't know what was going on anyway. Most likely, you won't either and that's not an insult to your personal intellect! It's just a messed up movie that you mainly just need to watch for its visual brilliance, symbolism and extremely stylish choreography. Every single character that walks through the screen is a demented & complex individual, and the protagonist is the absolute biggest weirdo of them all. He actually claims to be God himself - and really believes it, too - and does the most unpredictable things imaginable. Admittedly, this film isn't suitable for entertainment purposes. It's an intense and demanding experience that you should approach with an open state of mind and loads of patience. Purely elite cinema that can't be compared to anything else ever made.It is a shame at the end of El Toppo there is not a showdown between El Toppo and Billy Jack or have El Toppo realize that his son was his true master.