In the five years following the American withdrawal from Vietnam in 1973, the war was ignored by Hollywood. Despite the success of the grim documentary Hearts and Minds in 1975, fictional accounts of Vietnam were unforthcoming. As noted by scholar Rick Berg, "The war's loss was marked by its absence from the marketplace."  Suddenly, in 1978, there began a spate of films dealing with America's involvement in Vietnam which has continued unabated to this day, though the attitudes have changed.  These early Vietnam films of 1978 dealt not with the war itself, but with the soldiers that fought the war, and the war's effect on them and American society. In doing so, they unanimously and overtly conveyed a sense that the war was a terrible event that profoundly scarred the participants. Two of these films, The Deer Hunter and Coming Home, were both huge commercial and critical successes in 1978, signaling that creative filmmakers and adventurous Hollywood studios were ready to digest and interpret the war, and that the American public was ready to see the results. These films brought the notion of the damaged Vietnam vet sharply into the national discourse, and set the stage for Vietnam films for the next several years. This is particularly true of Coming Home, the subject of this paper.

The idea for the film originated with Jane Fonda, a well-known anti-war activist who had raised the ire of many patriotic Americans by visiting Hanoi in 1972, an action seen as galling at best, treasonous at worst. Having met numerous disabled veterans, Fonda had been impressed by a remark from one of them that "I've lost my body, but I've gained my mind."  She wanted to make a film about the home front and about the veterans who came back from the war. As recalled by her film production partner, fellow anti-war activist Bruce Gilbert, they set out to "re-define what manhood and patriotism meant."  Fonda would play a woman torn between her patriotic, pro-war husband and a disabled, anti-war veteran. She enlisted screenwriter Waldo Salt and producer Jerome Hellman, both of whom had worked on the controversial Midnight Cowboy in 1969. They also enlisted that film's director, John Schlesinger, but he soon bowed out, believing that being British, he could not bring a proper perspective to the story.

To replace him they enlisted maverick director Hal Ashby, known for a string of superb films including cult favorite Harold and Maude, The Last Detail, and the Woody Guthrie "bio-pic" Bound for Glory. Part of the renaissance of American auteur directors of the 1970s that included Martin Scorsese, Robert Altman and Francis Ford Coppola, Ashby was a Mormon who left Utah for California soon after his father committed suicide. In his mid-teens, Ashby had found the body. He got a job mimeographing scripts at a Hollywood studio, and eventually learned to be a film editor, winning a 1969 Academy Award for editing The Heat Of The Night. Already 40 years old, he made his directorial debut the next year with The Landlord, to rapturous reviews. His documentary-like, cin&eacute;ma v&eacute;rit&eacute; style was perfect for Coming Home, a film meant to be an unflinching portrayal of the realities of Vietnam veterans.

Meanwhile, Waldo Scott spent more than a year researching his script, recording hundreds of hours of interviews with disabled Vietnam vets. Jon Voight was tapped to play Captain Bob Hyde, but when more famous actors passed on the part of the paraplegic vet, Voight moved to that role and Bruce Dern came aboard to play the Captain. Voight, who would win an Oscar for his performance, was considered a risky choice. Despite a huge hit early in his career (in Midnight Cowboy opposite Dustin Hoffman), Voight had failed to capitalize on his success and, by the mid-70s, was widely regarded as having squandered his career. Jane Fonda resisted this choice until she finally saw some early rushes of the film and decided that he was perfect for the role. The film's participants set, shooting began at Rancho Los Amigos, a spinal-injury clinic in Downey, California. The V.A. hospital in Long Beach had declined cooperation when its chief medical director vehemently denounced the script.

The film opens with a very effective scene in which Voight is filmed with actual disabled vets, shooting pool in the recreation room of the hospital. This blend of fact and fiction sets the stage for the naturalistic, documentary style of the entire film. As they talk about the war and their wounds, one of the vets says that if he could, he would go back to Vietnam and fight some more. This is met with absolute incredulity by the rest of the vets, but one of them attempts to give the statement a perceptive psychological analysis, noting that "What happened to us is a waste that some of us can't live with ... (we) need to justify what we did ... to justify being paralyzed." In other words, knowing that the war was wrong (to put it bluntly), some of the vets find it hard to live with their wounds, hard to live with the thought that it was for nothing, or worse than nothing - for an immoral cause. This scene makes it clear that this will be an anti-war film, the implication being that most vets, in retrospect, take a dim view of America's role in Vietnam. These vets, who have lost limbs (and have seen others lose more) in Vietnam, give the anti-war sentiment an authenticity that liberal Hollywood actors and producers could not, similar to the role Vietnam Vets Against the War played in the anti-war movement.

The opening credits follow this scene, and Captain Hyde is seen jogging around a military base. The Rolling Stones' "Out of Time" plays, a song about a girl who is being left behind due to her conservative ways: "You're out of touch my baby / my poor, old-fashioned baby." Most reviewers have assumed that this is meant to comment on Captain Hyde, seen as old-fashioned because of his pro-military views. Much has been made of the rock'n'roll soundtrack to Coming Home; extensive use is made of almost twenty different songs from the late 1960s (most of them hits in 1968), several by the Rolling Stones (the only duplicated group), and most played in their entirety. Despite the misgivings of the studio executives, Ashby was determined to use the songs. As he told Kirk Honeycutt of The New York Times, "'My thought ... was that music played a very important part during this period. Also, I was concerned that with a picture this strong, a conventional score might make it soap-operaish.'"  The success of this strategy within this film itself is open to question. Most of the time, the songs seem to have no direct relationship to the action on screen, as if, Honeycutt notes, "a radio were switched on throughout the movie." Yet on a few occasions, the attempt at commentary is obvious. For instance, after Billy's sister visits him in the mental ward and perceives that he is drugged, she describes him to Sally as a "miracle of modern medicine." Over much of this scene, Jefferson Airplane's "White Rabbit" is heard, a song explicitly about a psychedelic drug experience. In another instance, the Rolling Stones' "Sympathy for the Devil" is heard as Captain Hyde describes wartime atrocities. And during the final scene, Tim Buckley's "Once I Was" is heard as Captain Hyde sheds his uniform, with the lyrics "Once I was a soldier..." In these instances, the correlation is so obvious that even if they were unintended, which is doubtful, the audience cannot help but infer a connection. Thus when the choice of song is abstract and seemingly unrelated to the action, like The Beatles' "Hey Jude" over several scenes, the effect is disconcerting. However, the rock'n'roll device was very unusual at the time and brought additional attention to the film, and helped solidify the opinion that this was a unique film. Also, the influence of this device has been seen (heard) in many Vietnam films since then, including most notably Apocalypse Now (1979), and has become de rigueur for almost any film about the 60s, including, most famously, The Big Chill (1984). In this respect, Ashby was quite ahead of his time.

Though released in early 1978 to mixed reviews, the film was a hit with the public and garnered numerous Academy Award nominations. That year, it and another powerful Vietnam film, Michael Cimino's  The Deer Hunter, swept the Oscars. Voight and Fonda both won Oscars for their acting, and the film won an Oscar for its screenplay. Best Picture and Best Director, among other awards, were won by The Deer Hunter and Cimino.

Interestingly, that film was criticized by many for a supposed right-wing slant (depicting the North Vietnamese captors as monstrous psychopaths), and one wonders if splitting the awards between the two films was an attempt by the Academy at balance. That said, the horrific depictions of war and its effects on a group of working-class friends in Pennsylvania (and DeNiro's refusal to shoot the deer in the end, having seen enough death) gives The Deer Hunter a distinct anti-war feeling as well.

Viewed from today's perspective, the film, despite the superb acting and its unusual style, comes across as pedantic and somewhat overwrought. Knowing that an attempt was made to tone down Hyde's unlikable character makes it all the more remarkable that he remains such a one-dimensional figure. This, and the unlikely confrontation among Hyde, Sally, and Luke, are serious flaws in the film. There is absolutely no available sympathy for the pro-war characters. In addition, the presence of Fonda in the film certainly alienated a large segment of the population, for there were many who took a dim view of "Hanoi Jane" and would never, ever go to see a Jane Fonda movie again. Thus, Coming Home was likely preaching to the converted, so to speak. Thus, on many levels, the film must be viewed a failure. Yet it was an extremely influential film, on the vanguard of Hollywood's post-war fascination with Vietnam, and it certainly touched a nerve with a public that was ready to examine the Vietnam War in terms of its soldiers and their problematic re-acclimation to American society. While the film can be easily criticized for its lack of subtlety, one could just as easily counter that the film simply wears its heart on its sleeve, and that its sincerity is a virtue, given a powerful voice by the considerable talents of the actors, writers, and director.