A VERY DIFFERENT PETER SELLERS!?

Peter Sellers had for all his professional life on the big screen lived by making excessive characters, sometimes as many as 3 at time, come to life and literally create a universe for us to watch in wonder. "Being There" is different, completely different. Here the universe is waiting for Peter Sellers in a rare, less-is-more performance where the theme could rightly be called, "A Charmed Life." After all, how else could a seemingly-autistic person take on knife-wielding street-gangsters, political heavyweights, and romance with no more emotion than when he walked on water, stopped to check the depth of the water with his umbrella, and then simply continued.

MY TAKE ON 'BEING THERE' - -

"Being There" is about the impossible being not only plausible, but completely accepted on face value. Peter Sellers is simply startling as a soft-spoken, well-dressed, gentleman's gardener who knows nothing more about the world than what he sees on TV. He relates to everything as though it were a garden, because that is all he knows on a first-hand basis -- UNTIL NOW! That's where the movie begins, Chance the Gardener's foray into real life. Don't miss it.

'BEING THERE' IS THE DEFINITIVE CHARACTER DRIVEN BLACK COMEDY - -

Call it a black comedy, a cross-over film, a poltical satire, or anything you like. This film simply works as an example of the actors making the film with the help of excellent direction by Hal Ashby and an excellent adapted screenplay by the book's author Jerry Kosinski. Peter Sellers' Oscar-nominated performance was supported by an incredible cast:

 *-----> THE CAST &lt;-----*

Shirley MacLaine - Eve Rand

Melvyn Douglas - Benjamin Rand - WON BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR OSCAR

Jack Warden - President Bobby

Richard Basehart - Vladimir Skrapinov

Richard Dysart - Dr. Robert Allenby

IN THE END - -  -

This phenomenal film from 1979 is one I had not seen until recently. I can't imagine why or how this one got by me, but I was thrilled to see it now. It is uncomfortable to watch at times, but it is definitely worth viewing.

ABOUT THE DVD: LACKS FEATURES BUT PLAYS VERY WELL!