Honestly, I have to admit that I've always had a soft spot for the Dick Grayson/Barbara Gordon pairing.  From the early (and vaguely suspicious) hints in the 1960's to today's recent, complicated, and almost tragic full-on relationship, these two have always been able to make me melt.  While that may make me a horrible romantic and a total sap, please bear with me.
From almost day one, I was a huge fan of &lt;i>Batman: The Animated Series&lt;/i>.  As a twelve-year old with very little to do after school, the wonderful animation and well thought-out storylines were a shining beacon amid a sea of twaddle.  B:TAS did animation and stories, and they did them well.  With episodes like "Tyger, Tyger", which not only provided a cautionary tale against the dangers of eugenic research BUT ALSO exposed legions of children to the poetry of Robert Blake, "The Cat and the Claw" parts 1 and 2, and "Perchance to Dream", the rich and textured emotional history of the Batman Legend was laid out for a new generation.
It was, in fact, this series that got me interested in the comics industry and, ultimately, led me into the DC universe permanently.  I was a major fan, and when "Mask of the Phantasm" came out, I was one of the first in line at the box office.
I was even happier when, in "Shadow of the Bat", Batgirl was introduced as a character and dramatic foil for both Batman and Robin.  She provided a spirit of energy and enthusiasm that, while present with Robin and Batman, was new and untried.  Plus, it added emotional depth and weight to Comissionor Gordon's precarious position of a Batman supporter.
Unfortunately, when the series wrapped up and morphed into "The Batman And Superman Adventures" and moved over to an affiliate running the WB, I lost track of it.  I tried, of course, to keep tabs on the video releases, but didn't really find out about "SubZero" until 2000.  When I found out about its release, I was over the moon and quickly tracked down a copy.  I was not dissapointed.
While, admittedly, the quality of the animation and plot were not on the level of "Mask of the Phantasm", I was not dissapointed.  "Mask of the Phantasm" was specifically a theatrical release while "SubZero" was always intended as a straight-to-video movie.  However, it was not, by any stretch of the imagination, sub par to the actual series.
The elements were there.  Victor Fries' desperation to save his wife.  Batman's determination to see justice done.  Batgirl's enthusiasm.  Robin's detective skills.  There are even hints of the beginnign cracks in Bruce and Dick's relationship that flower during the B/S Adventures.
Plus, Dick and Babs make out.
Overall, this is a really good movie that is enjoyable and contributes to the Batman Animated Series lexicon.  I recommend it highly.