I saw this movie on the big screen as a teen many years ago. I left the theatre with a completely dumb founded expression on my face. I now own this movie and watch/study it repeatedly all these years. This is the only thing in my life that hasn't changed hence I refer to it as a classic. This film is about immortality. It examines the rewards and drawbacks associated with it. It is a journey through the eyes of a vampire immortal named Miriam Blaylock played by Catherine Deneuve. 
It is a story about the life of two immortals living in a mortal world. Miriam's past goes back to ancient Egypt perhaps even further. It traces her life with John played by David Bowie. They first meet in a Louis the XIV France remembered in John's day dream. Miriam promises him immortality. John accepts her offer without understanding the details. John suddenly starts aging at an incredible rate after hundreds of years. It appears that Miriam did not tell John about one of the potential side effects of her gift which her prior lovers have succumed to. The film has beautiful cinematography.
I also felt sad for Miriam. She had supernatural powers, in-human strength, but at the same time was very vulnerable. She only wanted love and companionship which I think everyone can identify with. Anyone who has ever felt of not fitting in, or being alone in this world can strongly identify with this movie. The movie may aggravate viewers because it examines loneliness point blank. Maybe youth, good looks, money and nice things can't always buy happiness, but it helps. Nothing lasts forever as they say.
This is an intelligent, disturbing film, that should be watched several times to appreciate it's subtleties. It is not the "Lost Boys" another good film. It is not a special effects debacle. This film has a plot. The closest thing I can compare this to is watching the motion pic "Dune" for the first time and not getting it. This film is not for everyone especially the average person who enjoys the typical mass produced junk churned out by the Mega Entertainment Industry or hopes for Dracula 2000.
Sit back and enjoy the show.