The gorgeous new transfer of CITIZEN KANE on this DVD is much improved over that for the Criterion laserdisc version in 1991.  The picture is much cleaner; scratches, splices, and other blemishes have been cleaned up considerably.  Details in darker areas are much clearer.  For instance, in the scene where Charlie writes his declaration of principles while his head is in a shadow, on all previous transfers of the film that I saw, his head is in near total darkness; but on this DVD, his facial features are still clearly visible.  Another example is the scene where Charlie orders Susan to continue singing and his shadow totally engulfs her face.  On this DVD, you can distinctly see her facial expression in the shadow, while on older transfers, you cannot.  The improved details within shadows are crucial since much of Greg Toland's innovative photography makes elaborate uses of light and shadows -- shadows that are not just invisible black spaces, but with details, textures, and significance just like lit spaces.  Observant viewers will also notice on the improved DVD picture that, during the projection room scene, one of the people in the shadow is Joseph Cotten.  He is barely noticeable on old transfers, but very much so on this DVD.  (CITIZEN KANE is a rare film in which the actor who plays a main character also plays a cameo role in it!)  Also welcomed is that certain frames in the movie are displayed in "windowboxed" format (such as the huge headline "Kane Marries 'Singer'"), ensuring that they can seen in full on certain monitors.
The audio transfer has not been neglected.  The mono sound is clear, sharp, and smooth.  Loud sounds are bright but not harsh.  Soft sounds are always audible.  The softest sound in the movie is probably the moment when Charlie says to Bernstein, "Close the door," right after Susan's opera debut.  On old transfers it is barely audible, but much more so on this DVD.
There are 2 audio commentaries, one by Roger Ebert, who has done many shot-by-shot analyses of CITIZEN KANE and has deep knowledge about the film, and another one by Peter Bogdanovich, who knew Orson Welles personally and has deep knowledge about Welles's life and career.  Ebert's narration is livelier and covers more grounds.  He analyzes some of the themes in the story, and explains many innovative techniques used by the filmmakers, emphasizing that KANE is largely a "special-effects" picture.  Bogdanovich speaks subduedly and sparingly throughout (at one point he says there are other Welles pictures he likes more than KANE), but he makes many keen observations about Welles that can only come from someone who knew him well.  He says he once asked Welles why he did things so differently from other filmmakers.  Welles replied, "I was like the guy who felt sick, and the doctor asked him what he did very morning.  And he said, "Every morning I get up, then vomit...".  The doctor asked, "You VOMIT every morning?"  And the guy said, "Doesn't EVERYONE?"  The guy thought what he did was normal.  And so did I."
Other extras on the DVD include a one-minute newsreel footage of the film's New York premiere, the wonderfully-edited original theatrical trailer, and about 100 stills from the film's storyboards, production photos, press kit, and posters.  In the "Still Gallery" section, Roger Ebert speaks again on an 11-minute audio track about the significance of Welles' achievements in KANE.  There are two "easter eggs" (undocumented features) on the DVD as well.  One is on the main menu -- select the "sled" symbol and you will see a 6-minute interview of Ruth Warrick, who recalls her experience working with Welles.  Another "sled" symbol can be found in the "Production Notes -- On the Set" section where Robert Wise is mentioned.  Selecting it will take you to a 3-minute interview of Wise, who recounts a few anecdotes about KANE.
The second disc contains the excellent 2-hour documentary THE BATTLE OVER CITIZEN KANE, from 1996.  The disc is identical in content to an earlier DVD released by WGBH Boston Video.  The documentary provides vivid portrayals of Hearst and Welles, detail accounts of their rise to power, and fascinating details about the making of KANE and, of course, Hearst's attempts to destroy it.  The makers of the documentary went on to make the equally brilliant HBO movie RKO 281.