This season of Sliders started out strong. Apparently, something horrible must have happened in the production of the show during this time, however, because while the early episodes in this season are some of the strongest of the series, by the end it is a whimper.

This collection should be required viewing for anyone in television. This is the season where a fantastic show hops on a motorcycle and flys over a shark in a big way. A great show to start. Then, producers fire (or let go or whatever) the anchoring character (Arturo) because he has the audacity to question the show. Immediately, his absence is felt. In a desperate attempt to save it, they rely on the old cliche that anything can be rectified with the American people if you make it sexy enough. Enter an untalented actress whose sole asset (in her own words) is her body. What the producers failed to realize is that the premise of the show wouldn't allow for a sexual relationship between two main characters. The growing affection between Wade and Quinn was beautiful. Plus, in the first seasons, Quinn had this whole Captain Kirk girl in every port thing going on that was hilarious, as his character was nowhere near as suave as Kirk (sort of a dorky Captain Kirk thing -- it was great). There was no chemistry between Maggie and Quinn because the whole premise of the show was that sliders must become a family of warriors together. There was no place for jealousy and sexual intrigue.

The sad thing is that people who watched the original series know that it only got much much worse as the producers stopped caring about the writing and relied on cheap and tawdry storylines. Simply, the actions of the producers of this show are an insult to television viewers. Note to the production staff: Yes, people in American love pretty people. The world is filled, however, with people with nice bodies. We would never have settled for the one you picked. Boobs aren't enough to redeem crankiness and am utter lack of any redeeming qualities.