I'm a horror fan. Always have been, probably always will be. My forte runs to the 80's icons, such as Freddy, Jason, Michael and the like. For years I've been trying to get into the classics. I remember owning the original Mummy after the remake was released, and I liked it, but didn't love it. Throughout the years I've picked up the other originals, such as Dracula and Frankenstein. I decided to give this set a chance, and despite paying too much for it, I'm ALMOST completely satisfied with set.
The picture quality is incredible. They all almost look brand new. The amount of new things I've noticed in every film is really great. Same goes for the audio, really sounds excellent. I don't see how anybody with an interest in these films could not love how well these were remastered. I mean no more light flickering in the image, and that alone does so much for these films.
But the set isn't perfect. Aside from the rehashed special features, they actually recycle alot of the same features on different films, which is pretty lazy. I can deal with that though, but the case for this set is where i draw the line. The box looks cool, but Universal really dropped the ball there. When you hold the average boxset in your hands with the cover facing you, the opening should be on the right side of the box. For some reason, Universal saw fit to have to box open on the left, which is silly. I end up having the digibook fall out constantly because I'm not used to the set opening on the left. Also the digibook itself sucks pretty bad. The Alien and Star Wars digibooks have a kind of bind at the end so you have to slight bend the sleeve to get the disc out, but that totally prevents the disc from falling out. Not the case here, the discs could literally slide out at any time, except the disc are almost impossible to get out, at least without marking up the disc. For the kind of money they are asking for for this set, you would think a slight amount of extra care in the set would have been required, but not so.
Regardless, I'm still more than satisfied with this and more than impressed with the films.
I can truly say that I always liked these films, but because of how great the picture and sound are, I can now say I love these films.