To me independent or "indie" films can either be really good (I really enjoyed The Visitor) or really, really, REALLY, make-you-question-why-you-even-tried-the-film bad (Just about every indie zombie film out there).  I guess in my older age of 28 I'm becoming harder and harder to please with my cynical take on life.  However, in the tradition of being an objective reviewer I gave... the movie with the really cumbersome title the benefit of the doubt when given the opportunity to go over it.

Having watched the film with my trusted test audience, my drinking buddies with a full compliment of PBR, we came to the following conclusion and I quote: "Meh, It was OK."

The story isn't anything new as it follows the trials and tribulations of a handful of New Yorkers trying to figure things out (Rent, anyone?).  In the middle of it all is a writer taking in a foster child, something unique but not exactly heart warming.  In fact, we found that the film tried waaay too hard to be sentimental with all the mushy gushy moments that are not quite plot twists.  It's just too darned quirky to be believable, almost as if it was taking place in an animated world or something by Tim Burton as my test audience and I kept on shouting, "Oh, whatever" at the screen.  It just wasn't that believable.

Pertaining to my earlier reference to the "twists," simply put, there are none.  The story almost flows like a "dear diary" during the mundane parts of someone's life.  Yes, the hardships the character, who weren't really that well elaborated on, went through genuine hardships that plague the lives of anyone not living in a cave and/or their mom's basement but... it's mundane and overdone.  All their problems have been examined waay too much in other films or just aren't that interesting.  It'd be like me making a film about my normal day consisting of meetings and time on the sales floor: it would only be interesting if I included six months of quirky customer stories into a 30-minute episode on TV... *LIGHT BULB*

Not to say the film with the odd title wasn't well done, everything else in production and post wasn't bad at all given it's an indie title with severe hotties.  Problem is that the writing killed the film or made it not so good for those in the general audience that want a good experience.

All in all, a rental.