Have you ever noticed that all the other romantic fairy-tales always involve a dashingly handsome prince and a beautiful young princess falling madly in love at first sight and then living happily ever after (at least as portrayed by Hollywood)? I mean, how shallow must their knowledge and understanding of each other be! And love? Not to say there is no such thing as love at first sight, but marriage -- a life-time commitement after one kiss (in the case of Snow White)? And do we even know they are good people? Could it be possible that Cinderella would marry the prince just to escape her torturous life from the step-mother and step-sisters? And what do we know about the Prince Charming who revived Snow White with a kiss? Beauty and the Beast is probably as far as Hollywood had ever departed from the beauty and prince rule, but wait -- Beast is *really* a prince! How wonderful! And good for Beauty! Bottom line? It's not only unrealistic, but also devoid of any valueable lesson or even advisable message for today's kids and teenagers.
Enter Shrek! A totally unattractive, unorthodox, irreverent, a bit scary, but humorous creature who lives not in a castle but a swamp, who has no white horse, but an uninvited annoying donkey as his sidekick. The initial impression of Shrek isn't pretty, but we know he has a thousand times more personality than a poster prince whose character seems to be defined by his props. He may not come off immediately as like-able, but at least we see an individual, full of life, with his own thoughts and emotions.
By now you should know the plot already, which I won't repeat. It is to Shrek's creaters' credit that we automatically want to say, "Wait a minute: this is all wrong! *Lord Faaqua* should be the one rescuing Princess Fiona, not *Shrek*!" What a great setup! Part of the movie's attraction is how it deviates from the cliches of the traditional romantic fairy-tale. As the movie progresses, we become aware of our own prejudice with the realization that Shrek, just like Princess Fiona, is not what we perceived him to be in the first place. In the romance that ensues between the two, we see the wonder of love in the characters: true emotions; from joy, hesitation, to the attempt to resist love, to even fear. We see that love in fairy-tales can also happen between an average-looking princess who burps knows kung-fu and an ogre with bad manners but a soft heart, and that fairy-tale creatures do not have to be either absolutely perfect or pure evil -- much like the real world, actually. And we learn this in a movie that is didactic without being preachy or boring, but fun and hilarious!
Honestly, can you think of another fairy-tale movie that is as inspired, three-dimensional, heart-warming, entertaining, and morally conscious all at the same time? Then what are you waiting for? Grab your copy of the Shrek right now! Enjoy! :)