Well when I left Vegas I was out there across the Nevada desert and came across places like this about every thirty miles.  Yuppers people, there are places like this out there, but usually the guy behind the desk is either a retired Navy Officer or a rich guy from India.  The guy behind THIS desk is a freak, but I guess that is what you have to have.

Plot is like, that one movie with John Cusack, oh Identity I think it is called.  This one is really freaky because there are these tapes in the room they rent for the night and oh boy howdy, what is on them makes you shiver!

That is when it is howdy doody time!

Kate Beckinsale is good, I mean she is hot in anything she is in.  No peoples, you will not see her romancing fighter pilots among parachutes like that movie Pearl Harbor, in this movie her and her husband are on one last venture before getting divorced, which logically makes absolutely no sense whatsoever since they argue all the time anyway.  Ok peoples never mind the loss of romance, this is just pure horror, it is not a slasher it is a scary movie.  Not the Scary Movie franchise peoples and I doubt this one will have any scene played in any future Scary movie films, but that is not relevant!

What is relevant is that you do not be stupid when venturing somewhere that you are not familiar with.  Being nice to the dude who was not fixing his car but secretly destroying it so they would be stranded was just dumb.  Then again there are so many rude people in this world I can see where they thought being nice to the young man might get them some candy points.  BZZZZZZZZZZZZ! Wrong again!

I did not understand what the gray face paint was for.  What was that all about?  Did they run out of urban camo and just use some bearing grease from the garage?  Oh and that tunnel under the hotel motel California (you can check out any time you like haha but you can NEVER LEAVE HAHAHAHA) was  way out of code, the inspector would have caught that.  And the phones not working and on and on, this fool would have only gotten away with this kind of krap for about 23 hours and then Eric Estrada and the Chips dudes would have busted them big time.  This was also the same motel used in the movie Cobra and obviously they fixed it up since then because in that movie Stallone and his lady were getting shot at and stuff.

Just keep driving, and if you do stop bring a .45 and some roach spray.  Oh and a DVD player and a stereo to because nothing works at that place.