I just watched this last evening on PBS, absolutely wonderful!! I am not well informed regarding World War II or Hitler. Of course I know the basics, but I have not read a book about World War II, except The Diary of Ann Frank when I was young. I have watched some shows on the History channel, but usually  only partially. My point  is, I am not well informed on this subject, or seek it out as a special interest , and  I found this show to be excellent and essential. It was very mesmerizing, the use of old films and photos were amazing. It would keep anyone's attention, it was not a dry documentary. I cannot imagine that in the present day, we would really empty out a whole museum like the Louvre to save the artwork- what an undertaking. Like other reviewers, I was wishing my children had seen this in school ( they just recently graduated and are in college), and was thinking of ways teachers could incorporate this in their curriculum. Definitely a show you can watch again.  It is very enlightening about Hitler, the war and just art. How many individuals placed such value and their whole culture in  art, how emotional and important art is to life etc.  I am already trying to figure out how I can see this again. As other reviewers mentioned, the live film footage is amazing.  I see this is also a book, and is probably very good however the live film footage makes this a very valuable video, even if you prefer books or have read the book. I am surprised how much of the packing and saving of the artwork was filmed when they were trying to hide this from Hitler! Definitely a must see. I am curious if this is just one person's view or would Hitler have been different if he had not been rejected from the  Vienna Art Institute? Would our history be different if Hitler had been admitted to art school? What a thought, what a possibility. This really puts into perspective how Hitlers view affected many different areas of life. It also shows how many knew the importance of saving this art that Hitler wanted to destroy.