There's a stretch of Mary Poppins, from around "The Perfect Nanny" until "I Love to Laugh," that really is perfect.  Pure magic.  But then that ending just drags and drags.  The beauty of the movie, during that enchanting middle section, is that it is spirited and breathtaking, and delivers a message without being preachy.  But then, shortly after the gang find themselves laughing to the point that they float to the ceiling, the energy starts to leak out of the movie.  I appreciate that attention spans were longer a generation ago.  But, two hours and twenty minutes for a children's musical?  Could anyone- even back then- have really wanted to watch more of the Banks father being emasculated?  There is "Chim Chim Cher-ee" and "Step in Time" to break up the heavy handed morality, and then Mr. Banks' rebirth as a `quality-time' father is demonstrated briefly by his interest in kites.  Don't get me wrong.  I'm down with the messages: The pursuit of money and status doesn't guarantee happiness.  Don't forget to appreciate and nurture your kids.  You don't have to sacrifice limit-setting to be playful, and so on.  But there's something annoying about having that message remastered, repackaged, and forcefully delivered by the encroaching, ubiquitous Disney colossus.

Mary Poppins does a tremendous piece of family therapy with the Banks.  While one can find elements of structural family therapy in her work, she mainly uses a strategic approach, focusing less on insight and understanding and instead adopting a directive and authoritative stance to manipulate the elements of symptoms, metaphors, hierarchy, and power that form the secret language of the Banks family.  In fact, there is no better illustration of a paradoxical intervention than when she sings the lullaby "Stay Awake."  The late Jay Haley himself must have marveled at her technique.  And it is a wonderful talent that allows Mary Poppins the character, as well as Julie Andrews the actress, to act in an authoritarian manner while projecting enough playfulness and charm to secure the alliance with not just the kids but the parents.  Magic doesn't hurt the transference either.

Anyway, the stuff that's great is really priceless and well worth it.  You should probably slog through the movie all the way at least once, perhaps in a few sittings, but then after that you can select to view just the musical numbers with the kids.  Some of the behind-the-scenes bonuses are worth watching.  It's always interesting to see how the creative process works, the little serendipitous moments that add up to brilliance.

I think I'm done.  I managed to get through this review without saying "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious."  By the way, "dociousaliexpilisticfragicalirupus" is not strictly speaking the same word backwards.  They throw in that "rupus" at the end to throw us off, but the rest of it is made up of roots, some of them multisyllabic, intact but in reverse order.  Just wanted to mention that.