Just like Octopussy, Live and Let Die continues to be one of the most underrated movies in the James Bond series. I have seen every Bond film at least once(not including NSNA and CR)and many of them multiple times and even though some people couldnt stand LALD, it continues to entertain me each time I watch it.
I really liked the part when Bond and Rosie Carver were up in the hills (down there) and as they are getting intimate, Roger Moore (my favorite Bond although Dalton and Connery were both great) takes out the Queen of Cups and tells Rosie that she is a lying, deceitful woman.  Only a few seconds later, she sees a scarecrow and lets out a scream. Bond responds "That used to be a convincing act, Rosie but its wearing a little thin now."
Everything was terrific in this movie.  Jane Seymour was a stunning Bond girl.  Yaphet Kotto and Julius Harris were terrific as Kananga/Mr. Big and Tee-Hee respectively (and Kotto was also one of the best actors on the great NBC tv show, "Homicide").  Actually, one of my least favorite characters was Geoffrey Holder as Baron Samedi, who has tended to recieve many compliments from this movie.  The locations were excellent, as usual.  And the title song by Paul McCartney is one of my favorites, up there with Carly Simon's "Nobody Does It Better" from TSWLM, Rita Coolidge's "All Time High" from Octopussy and Shirley Bassey's "Goldfinger."
Now on to the movie itself.  The beginning was rather slow, up until Roger Moore leaves the voodoo shop and pursues the brown car in the cab.  The cabbie, who doesnt have a name, was one of my favorite characters.  There was something about his personality, unlike most of the other bad guys' personalities, that made him a very upbeat and likable minor character.  I liked some of the dialogue that he carried on with Moore.  "Cabbie: Uptown?...you headed into Harlem, man.  Moore: Well you just keep on the tail of that juke box and there's an extra twenty in it for you.  Cabbie: Hey man, for twenty bucks, I'll take you to a Ku Klux Klan cookout."  This probably won't go down as one of the most politically correct movies, but it fit the times (1973) really well.
Many of the action sequences were also awesome, including "Bond driving the double-decker bus into the low bridge, the sequence in the airplane with Mrs. Bell, Bond jumping on the alligators backs to escape, the boat scene (although I agree it could have been condensed), and the second last scene when Bond fights Kananga.
There were numerous one and two-liners throughout the movie that I also enjoyed.  "A genuine Felix Leiter. How illuminating." "Names is for tombstones, baby. Take this honkey out now and waste him." "Let's just wing it." (the airplane scene) Kananga: "So, what shall we drink to Mr. Bond?" Bond: "How about an earthquake"
I love almost all of the James Bond movies (with the exceptions of YOLT, AVTAK, and TWINE) but Roger Moore shined in his Bond debut.  The reason I think Moore was better than Connery is because Moore  naturally had the quintessential smoothness and amiable personality while Connery often tried to be the same.  For example, in Goldfinger, when Connery activates the metal spokes in his tires to slash Tilly Masterson's tires just to meet her, well, that is something Roger just wouldn't have done.  He would have met her in a far more practical way.
Anyways, LALD is number one in my book, followed by Octopussy, Goldfinger, and TLD.  By the way, if you were wondering what place FRWL is in, I ranked it #14.  Before long, I will explain how FRWL is, hands down, the most overrated Bond movie.
LONG LIVE ROGER MOORE!!!