Romeo and Juliet Directed by Franco Zeffirelli is an unforgettable movie of love written by Shakespeare, where teenagers like Leonard Whiting (Romeo), and Olivia Hussey (Juliet) made a huge production, to be able to express as the days of Shakespeare were. It is considered as a romantic tragedy movie, where our eyes, and imagination travels as you are watching the 1968's version. This movie is a play with a really high range of value for me as a reader of the book, because when you read the book first you would figure a 1968 version.
In my opinion the actors John McEnery (Mercutio), and Michael York (Tybalt) made a really good fight scene, where both ended up death, because Tybalt killed Mercutio, then Romeo got mad, fought, and killed Tybalt. That's how the big tragedy really started, because by that way Romeo got banished. Then after that, Friar Laurence (Milo O'shae) planned to fix everything, because he knew that he was going to get in trouble if he let Juliet to get marry twice, being Juliet already married to Romeo without the consent of Capulet (Salvatore Billa), and Lady Capulet (Natasha Parry). The Friar gave Juliet a poison, which made her pretend she was death, so that Romeo could go and pick her up, and they could leave Verona together. But Balthazar (Keith Skinner) who saw Juliet death, messed up the Friar's plan by telling Romeo that Juliet was death, but he didn't know that Juliet was just pretending she were death, while Romeo was expecting to get a letter from the Friar. Then Romeo went to see Juliet carrying a poison with him, and he said: "Eyes, look your last! Arms, take your last embrace! And, lips, O you the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death!" Then Romeo drinks the poison and die. Then a minute after that, Juliet woke up and saw Romeo death in the floor, and then she killed herself with Romeo's stake.
I love this version of the movie; it was so dramatic and ironic. But I think that is not very mature to kill itself by love. Knowing that out there are too many people. But there is always a saying that I say, "Every person is a different world", which I found out is true, because everyone thinks different. I'd like to say that this is a metaphorical experience, where I think that Shakespeare maybe thought that love is over all situations, where everyone gets confused, and lost control of the situation by taking or trying to fix everything in a very fast way, which is even worse.