Bravo Milius!

I vividly remember seeing this movie when I was 10 years old living in Washington, D.C..  As a military brat, I was obsessed by all things military, but also keenly aware of the global political state of the world.  Reagan ruled supreme, and a succession of weak Politburo puppets lived and died in the Kremlin.  The mid-80's was a scary time for many.

It's easy twenty years later to dismiss the premise of Red Dawn as overblown and unrealistic.  How things have changed since 1984.

Many reviewers have criticized this film for major plot holes and inconsistencies.  I offer that these people have not actually viewed and absorbed the story elements portrayed by Red Dawn and John Milius.

1.  It was clearly stated in the beginning of the film that the Soviet economy was suffering from back to back poor grain harvests.  This is what triggered the attack on NATO and then the United States.  Hungry people get desperate.

2.  Nuclear weapons were used on strategic sites to disable key military installations and infrastructure.  Many readers do not understand that since the 'invaders' would want to preserve the "Bread Basket" of the country, they wouldn't use tactical nuclear weapons.  Battlefield nukes with small yields are strong enough to decimate with precision.  They exist, but have never been used in combat.

3.  The "Wolverines" were not acting alone.  "Radio Free America"  showed this.  It was demonstrated in the movie that resistance was taking place all over the country.  The U.S. has over 73,000,000 men of 'fighting age'.  An enemy aims a gun at your home or family, show me one of those 75,000,000 who would not take up arms in defense.

4.  The enemy used commercial airliners to invade the U.S.  It's been done before.  A bit of a stretch, but this is presented as fiction.

Some cheesy dialogue?  Sure.  Continuity problems?  Maybe.  Preachy?  Sometimes, but this is a film of good over evil.  Believable casting of teenagers.  Sometimes wooden, sometimes moving, aren't people that way in real life?

Spineless European 20-somethings and the like say that this is just another example of American imperialism.  I'd say ask your grandparents if they feel the same way as America sacrificed hundreds of thousands of lives to save your shores, while we were in no immediate danger.  TWICE.

You spent your childhood living under the veil of security that the United States provided. My generation will repay your debt for the rest our our lives.  Donations accepted.