I hadn't seen in a movie in..drum roll please..six years. ANY movie.
As I bought myself a portable DVD player for Christmas for business use and for travel, I of course needed to get some movies!
AHHHH!!!!!!!! I had no idea what was even out there or what I would like to watch!
I had a plane trip coming up and wanted to get some for the trip as well as to have with me to view so I didn't want anything that would be offensive to anyone near me on the plane.

Yes, it's sad, but so are lots of things in life but this is a different kind of sadness. It's a sadness that also comes with great joy because it reached its full cycle and you felt that fulfillment. You also felt its purpose, and the love.

I think for some to comment that it was 'predictable' miss the point. Much in life is predictable. For me, I don't care that some things are predictable; or simplified, or maybe not even 'realistic'. I can get reality in the day to day. To watch a movie is to become involved deeply with so many levels of the movie and to glean from it whatever message you are receiving at that time.

I enjoyed Morgan's wife in the movie and the relationship he had with her. Of course she is going to get mad at him; be frustrated, concerned and then absolutely shocked and bewildered when he announced his plans. But, she also showed great trust, and love and knew that whatever he was needing to do, it's what he needed to do and let it go. Let him go. I enjoyed those intimate scenes. People need to see great strength and trust between two people.

I also found myself hanging on the edge of my seat when Morgan was at the bar and the beautiful lady came up and sat next to him. I found myself thinking that if MORGAN (the actor - not even the character!) 'gave in', then I would change how I felt about him (however irrational since it was his character, not him). I held my breath in anticipation...
Now, whether Morgan had any say so on the outcome of that scene or whether that was how the script was written anyway, it made a world of difference to me. And if Morgan did have a say so, well, all the more reason why I esteem him so highly.

I thought it was a wonderful movie and am so glad I got to see it.