This account of a wild and wooly Anthony Hopkins as a killer par excellence who was rescued from his prison in a jungle somewhere and then confined illegally in the U. S.  He had long white hair, strength of an ape (mountain gorillas), and look like Hemingway in 1954.  Like the animals he studied so dilligently, he had the instinct to fight for his survival.  Dr. Calvin writes about the marvelous ability of humans to think and choose to make decisions, solve problems, forecast the future and even create ethics, all using this mental Darwinism.

In the confinement in America, he refused to speak or socialize with the other prisoners, all of whom had mental problems.  The jail was full of psychotics and other mental criminals, caged like an animal and abused by the guards.  The cruelty in the guards' behavior caused a riot.  Ethan kept remembering base camp and what happened there, and reflected on his success and failure to protect the apes.  When he decided to trust the doctor, he asked him "Are you free?"  He apparently he trusted him because he looked like the apes in the jungle.  He needed someone to listen about the murders.  "I used to be you; see what I have become."

What have you lost when someone else takes over control?  It takes a lot of confidence.  Now he has an opportunity to better himself by appearing in court.  Was it a Good Conviction like Lewis Weinstein's account in the book of the same name?  He had to hold on to show where the violence came from, killing the apes. and acted like a mad man.  Violence can be provoked.  Funny how things can change overnight.  Loving, petting, kissing, holding hands -- you put trust in a person who was not in control.  All was lost, taken away by force.  "You taught me how to live."

Ethan regressed after the guard's attack.  It is hard to see a grown man cry.  Failure makes anyone cry, even a woman.  He thanked the young doc for sharing this journey with him, your friend; then he returned to the wild.  This book tells how chimpanzies can't talk and why we forget our dreams.