A typical action, martial arts, explosive-packed Steven Seagal film about an environmental crusader from the EPA who takes on sleazeball toxic waste dumpers who don't care if every state south of the Mason-Dixon line gets cancer. 
There are the usual fight scenes, where Seagal is outnumbered, or outmatched in terms of physical size. Yet he typically emergest triumphat after some really neat martial arts moves. 
The casting director could have picked a much better female for the "love interest" part of the plot; someone a little more prettier would have kept the movie from dragging at parts. Seagal's wife-to-be (by the end of the film)is tired looking, backward, and helpless. I am serious when I say that the love interest is a typical Cinderella theme; knight and shining armour rescues a helpless maiden who, in this case, is imprisoned by an incestuous brother. 
The best part of the film is when Seagal meets the Chief Sleazeball, played by a grimey Kris Kristofferson in a casino. The best lines in the film are between Kris and Seagal discussing the former's impending jail sentence. Kristofferson makes mention that he is 61 years old, but Seagal assures him that he will make sure that he will be taken care of by a nice big and, presumably dark, fellow inmate, the implication being that Kris will soon be not just an inmate, but a "wife." I've seen this movie a half-a-dozen times and I still laugh like hell at this part. 
Seagal's movies are typically made to show off his martial arts prowess, his smart-ass, wisecracking way of confronting evil, which can be defined as anything that gets in his way, as well as some pretty dramatic pyrotechnics that would make any ten year old boy shout "Wow man, is that cooooool!!!!!!!!!!" Neither he, nor the filmakers many any greater claims. If you are looking for something deeper, turn to your local PBS channel whenever they air "Jane Eire" or "Pride and Prejudice." 
Fire Down Below has a half-way decent plot, some reasonably good acting (with the exception of the homely, and somnolent female lead) and some fantastic special effects. 
Definately not a "date movie" nor a "chick-flick."