I watched JP trilogy again recently, with a friend that had not seen them or barely remembered since he was too young when they came out. Yes, the first one is a classic, nothing can compare or surpass the awe of the discovery of the park. My friend, who has been to the Orlando Jurassic Park ride many times was saying why they didn't do the ride just like the movie? And that summoned up my own feelings when I say JP for the first time: I wanted it to be REAL. Then it comes JP 2: Lost World, which, yes, the plot is not as good, the effects are better, but to be fair, it is a highly entertaining movie with some genius action sequences. The action scenes in JP series are usually layered: two or more things happen at the same time and there is an element of urgency, a time-clicking bomb alike plot device, and they make you feel like you are watching an accident in slow motion. In JP, examples are the T-Rex appearance, the car in the tree, electric wire climbing... there is always that clicking suspense. In Lost World, we have the trailer scene, which is very effective, it creates tension through motionlessness, you have a person still on a shattering glass, another trying to avoid an object to fall into it. New movies' action sequences are all about blurry, fast, suprising, explosive tricks that are ultimately boring and repetitive, that won't allow you to build suspense, to feel the tension. JP trilogy is filled with good old fashion suspense, every chaotic situation develops in front of your eyes adding layers of tension and builds slowly. In addition to this, all three movies have the signature mix of tension and humor that is typical of Steven Spielberg movies and started with Jaws, the dialog is not 'on the nose', characters don't ask stupid questions so the writer makes extra sure the audience understands issues about the plot, when they are scared they freeze and get quiet, not everything is a complete sentence, people don't say "a T-Rex is coming" but "this is gonna hurt". So, maybe we are being to harsh with the JP sequels and we forget that there are very few new movies today that will leave you wanting for more, that will have action sequences that are actually watchable and not just a blur, movies that create suspense, that use special effects to create a character, not for the sake of special effects only and with a story that will let you day dreaming afterwards.