You know those movies from back in the day that you thought were great, but you watch them now and think they are the worst movies ever made? This movie could certainly fit the later, but whether you think it is any good in the first place remains to be seen. The quality of this movie, or lack thereof as the case may be, is evidenced in the filming sequence (you've seen it a 100 times before in every B movie that has come before it) and the dialog (painful) of the opening scene. There is no plot nor dialog to be had in this movie.

This movie is about WWE style action and John Cena. Some good points, the death of Angela was a fun scene, as well as John's police car going over the cliff. That sequence was excellent, but of course the 5 minutes that preceded that of the police car getting shot up, was way over the top and beyond belief. I hope they were just making fun of bad action films, but I think they were actually just being one. There are a couple of other so unbelievable scenes that I was actually left feeling the director could care less about the intelligence level of his adult audience.

So, I really can not recommend this movie, and thought it bad enough to write a review. If you are a fan of WWE and John Cena and want to see action no more believable as what you might see on Smackdown, you may very well like this movie. There is nothing wrong with that if that is your bag, and the 16 year old WWE fan I took seemed to like it. But if you expect to get more for your money, then I recommend passing on this one.

I did want to add a few comments. First, I seem to have hit a nerve with some fans. Sorry. That is my honest review. Don't smack-me-down because I really hated this movie that you may have liked. As I said, it may very well be likable by some people, as it was by the 16 year old I took to see it. Heck, I actually enjoyed Paris Hilton's one hit wonder, but I'm honest enough to know that many people think even less of her then I did of this movie. All the more power to them, as long at they are honest in their review. So give me a break on that please. I did also want to add one thing I liked about this movie, which is at least it was cheaper to take my fiance and her son to see it, then it was to pay for one pay per view smackdown.