Clannad After Story was one of the most memorable anime shows that I have ever seen.  When I found out that the complete collection was coming out on DVD, I couldn't resist the urge to fly to the computer and get myself a copy.  The quality of the DVDs were wonderful and the subtitles were legit.  (When I bought the complete collection of Gundam Seed Destiny a while back for example, there would usually be a few subs that made no grammatical sense whatsoever). The flawless subs almost made me jump on the walls and shout "yippee!"

Let me take the time to recommend watching this anime in Japanese with subs.  Although I am a fan of english dubbed anime such as in Hell Girl, Code Geass, and DN Angel (especially DN Angel), it just doesn't seem to do a good enough job in providing emotional appeal than the Japanese version.  I find it hard to describe in words, but there just something about the subbed version that makes me more empathetic to the characters.  Nagisa, the heroine of this anime, has a japanese voice that is cute and calm.  Although she is shy and lonely at times, there are many important scenes when she is compassionate and mature.  When Luci Christian does it (and I think it was Luci Christian who voiced Nagisa) it's way TOO cute.  When Luci talks during these "important" (by that I mean very emotional) scenes, all I feel is that Nagisa sounds like a little kid.  The maturity present in the character is lacking.  Watch this anime subbed first and then watch the dubbed version if you want. I think you will see what I mean.

Overall, I give this DVD collection 4 stars.  The story is perfect, but all the episodes are put in 4 DVDs crammed in one central DVD holder.  It is a pain to take the last disc out, and at times, I get the feeling that I might break the disc! Be very careful when taking the discs out. -1 star for that >:(.  Other than that, HAVE FUN. ENJOY. LAUGH AND CRY.  This is one story that does a great job in invoking emotions.  I must admit that there are some scenes where I almost shed a tear (despite the fact that i'm such a manly guy) and ended up looking around the house to see if my parents saw me.  Be careful.  This anime is a tear jerker ;(.