Freddy's back and ready to tear his knives into a new group of Elm Street teens. This time, his next victim is Kristen Parker. While trying to kill her, Freddy makes it look like a suicide attempt and Kristen is thrown into Springwoods' Mental Insitution. There she discovers more teens who are plagued by the same horrifying nightmares she is. Helpless as they seem because the doctors refuse to believe that they are trying to be killed by this 'Boogeyman,' They have help on thier side from the new staff member, Nancy Thompson. The heroine from the first movie returns to help a new group of teens to combat Freddy Krueger. By tapping into thier dream powers, the teenagers become 'The Dream Warriors.' Now with thier new found dream skills, the troubled teens must battle this Dream-Stalker on his own hellish turf. Nancy and her convinced collegue Neil Gordon must do all within in thier power to help thier patients survive, even if it means using an experimental dream surpresent drug called 'Hypnocil' on them, if they can. Only few will make it out of this nightmare.

This is the best sequel in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. The script and diolouge were well thought out and planned to create something worthy of a great sequel, unlike Freddys' Revenge.
This time around, Nancy Thompson returns, played once again by the fantastic Heather Langenkamp. The movie also stars Patricia Arquette in her first role who does a very good job playing Kristen. While watching this movie you'll realise that some of the teenagers' 'dream powers' can be rather annoying, mostly 'The Wizard Master.'
The movie has a good plotline which goes at a reasonable, steady pace. 'The March of the Bloody Puppet' was one of the best and goriest deaths ever in a horror movie, it actually looked pretty real and disgusting, considering the year that the film was made.
The soundtrack is pretty good, featuring an awsome 80's song called 'Dream Warriors' preformed by Dokken.
If you're looking for a good Elm Street sequel, buy this one, you surely won't regret it.