I have been following this film since prior to the shooting of the film.  I am a faithful Downey fan and when I heard he would have the leading role in the movie version of Dennis Potter's mini-series I rented the mini-series to become familiar with the story.
It was a difficult story to follow and not too well received when it first was shown.  It later became highly acclaimed.  Ten years later, Dennis Potter wrote a film script, shortened it to a little under 2 hours (from the 6+ hours of the mini-series) and  changed the venue from England to the United States, actually the Chicago area;  the time period from the 40's to the 50's.  The tone of the story line changed somewhat also as basically it is actually about Dennis Potter.....and in his final years, he bacame less cynical and less angry than the original Phillip Marlow (Potter)...he mellowed somewhat. Consequently, the film has a different feel as was Potter's intent.  The script was not changed; only the location was changed to Los Angeles.  
Robert Downey Jr. was brilliant....changing pace so smoothly from the psoriasis-ridden, hallucinating Dan Dark to the Private Detective who lip-syncs to the songs of the original artists of the 50's.  It is a complicated story line, not a senseless blockbuster type with little substance, not meant for the non-thinking viewer.  It was cast so well, Mel Gibson is fantastic as the psychiatrist, Dr Gibbon, Robyn Wright Penn, Carla Gugino and Katie Holmes were perfect in their roles.  Katie Holmes part was small but with a huge impact...and she did it so well, as did the rest of the cast.  
Keith Gordon's directing was masterful, the timing with the musical numbers, the settings going from brilliant, stark white in the hospital, to dark streets and interiors with bright red accents....fast paced humor.
The closing scenes were perfect, then a rare treat.....Mr Downey singing "In My Dreams", a 50's song written by Gene Vincent, during the closing credits.  He has a wonderful voice...we need to hear more of him singing.
I have to give The Singing Detective 5 stars.....it was wonderful.  I have seen it 3 times, the second time in Chicago along with the Career Achievement Award presentation to Robert Downey Jr. prior to the screening.  That was a thrill!!  I will see it again Fri. Nov. 7.  
 
Anyone trying to compare this with the orginal mini-series will miss the whole point of the story....Potter did not intend it to be a condensed version, rather a new aspect of the story.  Also, an interesting fact....after seeing Downey in "Chaplin",  Potter said he felt Downey would be the one to portray the character of Dan Dark.