I have been studying the Arthurian legends for well over 15 years, and guess what, folks?  They're just that... legends.  So all of the ranting about "historical" accuracy is a contradiction of terms.  It  seems people judged this movie more on their expectations and preconceived  notions of Arthurian legends than having an open mind to Barron's  interpretation.  And will everyone please get over Helena Bonham Carter's  leather outfit?  I, for one, enjoyed it, and if most were honest, they did  too.  Everyone talks about how WONDERFUL Excalibur was, Boorman being a  visionary, blah blah blah.  Excalibur WAS a great film, but it annoyed the  hell out of me as well.  EXCALIBUR was designed for us who knew something  about Camelot, because if you don't, you are lost and bored 10 minutes into  it.  And the most severe detriment to EXCALIBUR is Boorman's dumb decision  to redub every damned line of dialogue.  At times it comes off as  cartoonish as the voice inflection sometimes is mismatched with what's  going on on the screen.  After reading all 140+ mostly negative reviews of  MERLIN, it's time for me to add my own. This was an AWESOME version of the  Arthurian legend, and showed some great elements of MANY works on Camelot,  including the beautiful imagery of Marion Zimmer Bradley's MISTS OF AVALON,  just to name one.  Reading some reviews, I wonder if we saw the same movie?  I know this will blow some narrow minds up out there, but Malory's MORTE  D' ARTHUR is not the end all and be all of the legend.  Expand your minds!  Read as many versions as you can get your hands on!  And stop blathering  about historical accuracy, and enjoy Merlin for what it is: A great  retelling, from the wizard's perspective, of the FAIRYTALE of Camelot.  If  you want historical accuracy, hit the encyclopedias and historical texts  like THE MILITARY HISTORY OF KING ARTHUR, and you won't be so mystically  enchanted with the character of Arthur, if he existed at all.  And yes,  there is still question to his and Camelot's existence, no matter how hard  any researcher tries to tell you they've discovered EVERYTHING.  There  simply isn't enough evidence to give credence to even the consistencies OR  generalities of the Camelot legend.  It was creative people filling in the  blanks that have given us the wonderful legends we have today, and I  cherish them all.
It was refreshing that this MERLIN was a great version  for the whole family, too, without being to childish and cookie cutter like  in execution of its story.  The VHS version is great for kids who have a  short attention span (it leaves all the JUICY parts in), and the DVD  version is great for us who love this story and the rich tapestry it  weaves.  The DVD has some great MAKING OF extra goodies, as well.  We  finally see Vortigern (Rutger Hauer) and Europe's early kings for the  bastards they were, in this version, if you're still hung up on  "history". The special effects were outstanding, but what  captivated me was the telling of the story, and, contrary to those who  profoundly proclaimed this version had no point and was aimless, MERLIN had  an excellent moral that needs to be told again and again, no matter what  age you are:  even when you act in the best interest of something, whether  it be a friend, a king or a an entire kingdom, you are still fallible and  can make a tragic, costly mistake.
Enough said.  Now go watch it with an  open mind, and critics, get over yourselves... just have FUN, for God's  sake, and put your movie checklist clipboard away for this one.  Nicol  Williamson was great as the mysterious supernatural Merlin in Excalibur,  and Sam Neill is simply outstanding as the all-too-human MERLIN...