*No Spoilers*
To get started, movies I like are a little 'different' from your average Joe. I like DVD's like Fight Club, Se7en, Pulp Fiction, Who framed Roger Rabbit, Family Guy, and El Mariachi. I like anime as much as the next guy (Ghost in the Shell, Akira, Ninja Scroll), but I don't actually 'own' any of those yet. So why did I bother with this one?
Let's be honest, compilations rarely work, or if they do, they come out 'okay'. Take 'Four Rooms' for example, the first 'episode' [stinks], the second was alright, and the last two directed by Robert Rodriguez then Quentin Tarantino ROCKED. Looking at The Animatrix, reviews told me that it was either hit or miss as well. Well, I can tell you that this dvd is definitely a 'hit' and not the ladder. Looking at what reviewers said, its apparent that they think 'World Record' is the weakest of the nine. Well...no its not, in fact, my friends and I were pulled into its unique storyline and the way it was animated. All of these were unique and great in their own way, and if I had to pick favorates I'd have to say FINAL FLIGHT OF THE OSIRIS, THE SECOND RENAISSANCE PARTS 1 AND 2, and KIDS STORY because of their tie ins with the trilogy as well as being particularly great, and DETECTIVE STORY and MATRICULATED (the Aeon Flux guy does a great job here, it's the last of the nine and is the longest and most 'out there').
I should also add that when I first saw RELOADED at the movie theater I didn't like it as the air conditioner was out and everyone just wanted to go home. I suggest giving it another shot, as I saw the movie at IMAX for a second viewing and I have to say it was great. You don't have to have liked any of the previous movies to appreciate The Animatrix, though.
For a final note, do what I did and get the two disk version of this movie. The soundtrack to this movie makes excellent background music for your room, computer, etc. Also despite what (ahem) some reviewers have said about you not being able to play all of the episodes at once, they are blind for not seeing the 'play all' feature at the bottom of the screen. No the credits do not play inbetween episodes, they all play at the end.
(I just want to say that this DVD looks cool playing on any TV in your house, no matter where its at.)
I hope this review was helpful, as I've seen a lot of...shall we say...unaccurate ones, so I hope this helps clear the fog.