As most people know by now, most disaster films, especially those that were so spectacularly popular at the box office in the 1970s, are for the most part soap operas or melodramas in which an all-star cast must somehow fight for survival after some outrageous cataclysm, be it natural or man-made.

EARTHQUAKE, released near the end of 1974, isn't any different.  There is plenty of melodrama to be had, and a lot of soap opera theatrics to be found, not to mention a lot of dated dialogue and hair styles to go along with all that.  In short, it has everything that critics learned to despise about the entire disaster movie genre.

And yet, for those of us living in Southern California, where this film is set, earthquakes and the fear of them are a basic fact of life.  And those are the kinds of fears that this 1974 box office smash taps into.  Admittedly it's a tough job to ignore the overblown theatrics between Charlton Heston and Ava Gardner, or Marjoe Gortner's psychotic National Guard character.  But beyond that, the very likelihood of Los Angeles being hit with a cataclysmic quake, as happens here via Oscar-winning special effects work by Albert Whitlock, Frank Brendel, and Glen Robinson (which, though perhaps dated by today's standards, still work well under the circumstances) and Universal's wall-shaking Sensurround system, is a bit too frightening to sweep under the rug without a second thought.  As a result, soap opera theatrics aside, EARTHQUAKE qualifies as a science fiction film much as it does a disaster pic.

There isn't a whole lot that this cast, which includes good people like George Kennedy, Genevieve Bujold, Barry Sullivan, Donald Moffat, and Kip Niven can really do with the overcooked dialogue of the George Fox/Mario Puzo screenplay; and director Mark Robson is also somewhat hog-tied as well.  But when the Big One hits, the City of Angels is virtually annihilated from underneath, and the cast must find its way out of the horrible rubble, this is where EARTHQUAKE works.

So what we have is an undeniably flawed "relic" of its time in terms of dialogue, acting, and direction, but a cautionary warning of what can happen to L.A. if Mother Nature decides to roll a 7.0 or higher on the Richter scale.