The descriptions in the Amazon synopsis seem to omit some crucial elements of the gentle but evenly paced gem. The acting is superb. The direction is elegant, with poignant pauses that allow the furniture to creak dialogue, the desert's army of owls and coyotes to offer chorus. 1974, Korean war vet Sam Elliot, a very Sam Shepard inspired character, who is the mold for individualism and self-sufficiency, lives in a humble but radiant cabin in the high desert north of Taos with his wife and daughter. During the summer the film is set in, his precocious, charming and near criminally brilliant 11 year old daughter, Bo, begins what is to become the narrative diary that carries you through her fathers unexpected slip into clinical depression. Her mother, Joan Allen, is a full blooded Hopi Indian and a naturalist of sorts, auto mechanic, gardener, hunter, gatherer, who teaches reading to convicted felons, and herself the voice of nightly readings to the family by oil lamp from Two Years Before the Mast. She tries to keep the family in check on less than $5000. annual income and help her husband through this draining ordeal, when suddenly they receive notice that the IRS will audit them for not paying taxes for 7 years. The IRS agent arrives and never leaves. He falls victim to, at first, a hornet sting that has him fevered for days. His own demons surface, having as a child discovered his mothers suicide by hanging in the front hall of his Brookline MA home andte weight of his self-imposed responsibility. On the road to recovery, he falls in love with Joan Allen, as we all do, and the love between all characters is simply amazing to observe. There is much more to life than working and paying taxes. The child, Bo, steals the show from an outstanding cast, a surreally serene setting, a scrumptious script, a soundtrack that sounds like Calexico or Friends of Dean Martinez, blended with The Delfonics, Billy Paul, Cliff Noble and Nixon's brilliantly placed resignation speech. Indian mysticism, White man's futility, peoples compassion and unbridled desire to experience are the underlying rhythms. The way in which the characters work their own way out of their personal traps is an inspiration. Written as a play and first presented on stage in Great Barrington MA, Off the Map is what it's title declares, but oh, what a destination.