Generally being a fan of Wes Anderson's prior films, I certainly entered this film not wanting to dislike it.  But in contrast to his other films such as the Royal Tenenbaums or even Rushmore, The Darjeeling Limited simply possesses too many overt flaws for me to be its champion.  The film tracks the "journey" of three brothers across India, aboard a train.  That's probably as far as this film takes you in the way of a story arc.  We know virtually nothing about their past whatsoever, other than the fact that they have been estranged and each have relationship problems of some undefined nature.  As a testament to this conspicuous lack of character development, we are privy to an excruciatingly uninformative 10 minute flashback that reveals absolutely nothing about the characters, except that they missed their father's funeral while in-fighting about the prospect of salvaging a damaged car from a repair shop.  Like many of the chosen scenes in this film, you get the sense that cinematic opportunities and provacative story elements were squandered for no objective reason.  For example, their mother, played by Anjelica Huston, is portrayed as absent and estranged from her children in some rustic convent, and we are given virtually no explanation for her alienating behavior (either past or present).  Furthermore, the brothers find themselves the sudden guests of a rural family after Adrian Brody attempts to save a young boy from drowning in a river.  Nothing becomes of this, other than the brothers attending a rural funeral, and we're left with a sense that this sequence is being inserted -- rather obviously and uninterestingly, to boot -- into the story in order to imbue the characters with some "powerful" spiritual epiphany.  In the end, unfortunately, these characters are inescapably one dimensional, as compared to many of the Wes Anderson heroes that we have met in the past (i.e., Royal Tenenbaum and Max Fisher).  This film feels more like a last minute artistic light bulb that flashed in the minds of Roman Coppola, Wes Anderson, and Jason Schwartzman as they were flying back from the Far East.  They probably had a wonderful trip to India and felt that they could fashion something amazingly evocative and artistic from their exploits.  Unfortunately, it feels more self-indulgent, than meaningful, and honestly feels that they wrote the script in about 2 hours and didn't really care about developing it further.  Perhaps Wes Anderson has reached a point in his career where he can assemble sprawling scenes with manufactured bits of ambiguity, and rest upon his former laurels to deem his current work "brilliant."  But in the grand scheme of Anderson's cinematic canon, this film falls towards the lower ranks.