I've read the others' reviews 1st, to avoid redundancy. The message of this movie, which many seem to be missing the point, is that communication, openness & familial support are necessary and watching this movie WITH your children of any age where comprehension is possible, starting a dialogue and remaining open & honest, may help one avoid or prevent this event from happening in your family, or if it doesn't, may help you deal with the fallout. Adults reviewing say it is difficult watching, especially with their child/ren, I say be emotionally honest WHILE watching, say "this hurts me to watch & imagine you in that situation", ask "do you know anyone this has happened to", ask "has anyone approached you this way & what did you do". Be open & non-judgmental in accepting their honest answers, be willing & able to openly discuss these issues so that your child knows they can rely on you, TRUST YOU, knows they can bring you their questions & experiences in safety & love. In the special features, this is the hope of the makers of this movie, that an open dialogue can be started & to help others recognize the signs to watch out for.

I especially appreciated the family's experience, the father's inability to deal with his daughter's sexuality &/or sexual identity, the reality of his emotions & fears, his rage & helplessness. The mother's frustration and different coping style, the difference in approach to coping between the parents and other family members. Everything about this movie is REAL, credible, believable, factual, every piece of dialogue is natural, the acting & directing as well as production quality could not be any better than in this movie. Entertaining as well as educational, emotional and physical reactions are expected and hoped for, a response is guaranteed in every viewer regardless of age, experience, opinion, belief, or family dynamics. This film has less violence, gore, thrills or chills than most cable TV or soap opera episodes, the most difficult scenes are the father's imaginings of what his daughter went through or of his murderous rage fantasies of killing the predator (or any sex offender he can find), as well as the initial scene in the motel room which is G-rated except for the torment Annie displays. Especially appreciated is the inclusion and depiction of how a victim reacts at the time of the incident, showing Annie disassociating from the activity, staring at something else to take herself out of the terrified body & mind being tormented, as a self-defense mechanism nearly all victims experience in order to survive.

Annie's confusion, defiance & even defense of the man, is accurate & honest, something many viewers will find shocking and incredible, until you understand the level of maturity and doubt any teen faces while honing their personality, character, identity. There are many films a hundred times worse to watch than this one, which has a PG rating, covering similar perspectives. What makes this movie different is the emotional context, the underlying truths that are not in your face as some films that use shock value might portray. An objective story is told with no assumptions, nothing forced or stiff in delivering the realities every family faces these days, in different ways than past generations. What should result from viewing this movie is genuine family intimacy in opening the subject for honest conversations. Riveting in style & content, the issues addressed here are happening every second of every day--it's about time we started paying attention & changing what we can.

Technically, the digital copy of the movie is approx. 829 MB, on same disc as movie, placed into DVD drive on a computer, in MPG-4 format. The digital copy is not HD, in fact it is not even HQ, and plays only in wide screen, if full screen is forced, the picture goes off screen (even on a wide screen HD monitor). Special content includes behind the scenes footage, actor comments, outtakes and two levels of previews, that's it.