I saw some mixed reviews here as to the quality of this DVD and I regret to say that the folks who said they look awful are right.  The only thing I can think of as to why some people say the picture looks great is that they either haven't seen very many other DVDs with movies from that era, or the movies they *have* seen are cheapo 99 Cent Store garbage.

The images on here are about as bad as you can get from a legitimate distributor (Artisan).  The bit rate is down at around 5  to squeeze both movies onto one disc (8 is what you need to look good).  Small details are completely gone and blurry, so the sharpening filter that's been applied merely makes harsh edges and annoying JPEG artifacts.  And the print for the first film is pretty worn; it might even be from a 16mm print.  I don't know what materials are available for these two films, but even with the prints that were used they could have gotten MUCH better transfers.  I'm not saying they had to spend the fortune that Warner Brothers does on their special editions, just get a good new transfer.  I strongly suspect that these transfers were done back in the VHS days.  If not, they sure look like it, because they sure don't look like what today's telecine equipment is capable of.

I have "Topper Returns" on the old Hal Roach Studios DVD and the one here is from that same master.  However, something must have happened in the compression, because the one here looks noticably worse (I did a side-by-side comparison).

Artisan should be embarrassed and owes us all, including the cast and crew of the movies, an apology.

And to those who wrote reviews saying the films look good, take a look at some of the late 30's/early 40's movies from the other studios.  You'll see just how bad this disc looks in comparison.  (Actually, there's the occasional clinker from other studios too, but that doesn't excuse this abomination.)

The only reason I'm giving the disc two stars is that at least the price is good and at least it has the harder-to-get first film.