Not convinced?  Fine, be that way.  "Wristcutters: A Love Story" is a typical offbeat indie flick with all of the positives and negatives that come with that particular label.  Hip self-awareness, black comedy, a tomboyishly sexy waif as the female lead, a meandering plot (if you can call it that), and quirky characters all figure heavily into the indie vibe here.  If this turns you off, move along.  But if the premise appeals to you and you're willing to wait for a payoff, then sit back and enjoy.

The genius of "Wristcutters" (besides the title) is the world it's characters inhabit.  It's a bland afterlife for the pathetic souls who have committed suicide.  No true happiness, no true sadness, no joy or pain, just a mere existence that is oppressing in and of itself.  A poetic reward/punishment for those who chose to escape the pain of life if ever there as one.  After all, without pain there can be no joy and vice-versa.  each inhabitant is unable to even crack a smile.  As we are introduced to our cast of characters, we get flashes of their fates in life.  The protagonist, Zia, slashed his wrists after his girlfriend dumped him.  His best bud, Eugene -who is apparently meant to be Eugene Hutz of the gypsy punk band <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000A2H812">Gogol Bordello</a> (who I'm a huge fan of)- poured beer on his guitar and electrocuted himself onstage while being heckled.  He proudly tells Zia that Iggy Pop was almost at that show.  It would probably be worth it to off yourself onstage if Iggy was there to see it.  This nonchalant and morbid humor really draws one into the film, but it unfortunately isn't consistently sustained.  Upon hearing that the girl he killed himself over followed suit and committed suicide as well, Zia finds himself once again obsessed with her and is determined to find her, thinking that perhaps she came to be with him.  AFTERLIFE ROAD TRIIIIIIP!!!!  Along the way, the pair pick up a hitchhiker named Mikal who just so happens to be a charming, gorgeous, free-spirited indie girl with an amusing obsession with defacing and destroying signs in an attempt to lighten the atmosphere of their new homeland.  After all, she is there by mistake (or so she says) and is just looking for the "people in charge" so she can straighten the whole thing out.

Wait, wait.  Emo guy and quirky best bud pick up hitchhiking dream girl while he's busy pining for the girlfriend who rejected him?  Okay, so you already know how this plays out.  But did you know that Eugene's car has a black hole under the seat so anything you drop under it vanishes?  Oh, right; everyone has that.  Well, the car is also held together with duct tape.  Gotta love that.  Also, you've gotta love Eugene pulling out a tape of his old band and treating the ignorant masses to some Gogol Bordello.  There's even a sing-along. God bless you, indie directors, and your constant shoving of your favorite musical artists into our collective faces.  You rock!  More bonus points awarded for a self-proclaimed messiah who committed suicide in life to show everyone how to set their spirit free and then kills himself in the afterlife hoping to show everyone how to get back after deciding it wasn't all it was cracked up to be.  Vicious circle, yeah?  Also, it's nice to know that dogs can commit suicide as well.

The cast is endearing, the premise is fantastic, the quirks are charming, and the soundtrack is different.  But on the other hand, the middle of the film drags like a sumb!+ch.  There's probably a good half hour or so where it seems like damn near nothing is happening.  Sure, it's setting up for the finale, but it seems to take longer in a film where literally nobody smiles.  When the characters all seem so bored with everything, there is definitely an energy loss there that needs to be filled.  But patience will pay off and the ending is pretty damn romantic if I may say so.  Ignore the fact that it throws a ton of WTF's at you at once after lollygagging for so long and just enjoy Shannyn Sossamon's beautiful smile.

"And as we're crossing border after border
We realize that difference is none
It's underdogs who, and if you want it
You always have to make your own fun"

3 1/2 stars rounded up for uniqueness.