Wake up people! Quit dissing this movie just because Jennifer Love Hewitt isn't in it! It doesn't mean the movie can't be good. I just watched the movie today and I was VERY impressed! It was a breath of fresh air for the series. I am a major fan of this series and I think that this third installment is better than the second installment with Brandy and Mekhi Phifer. So what if there are no "big name" actors! The actors chosen for the film are more than competent. By the time the characters start dying, you actually care about them, and want them to stick around - (except for Colby cuz he was a jerk!) And....dare I say.....this movie is an absolute fright machine! There are jump scares and suspense around every corner in this movie. And don't listen to the reviewers who say that the scares are cheap! Nothing about the scares in this movie are cheap! Everything in the film was done very professionally, including the musical score. The music in the film isn't just copied from some sound library. It actually goes with the film and amps up the thrills even more. The whole movie has a very dark mood and tone to it which fit perfectly with the story. Everything about this movie seems to be more scary and vicious than it ever has been. Our fisherman seems to be more pissed than ever, and goes after our characters like never before, ultimately killing them in some pretty cool death scenes. And I love the way the fisherman taunted them before he actually killed them. I think they pulled it off better in this movie than in the original, because he's not just leaving notes or chopping up hair. He actually attacks our heroes, and just when you think he will finish them off, he lets them go. My favorite of these taunting scenes is when Colby is swimming, and the fisherman hooks Colby's ankle. You think the fisherman will slash him, but after a few seconds, he disappears. Overall, this movie is brilliant! I can't wait for I'll FOREVER Know What You Did Last Summer! :) Just kidding.....