I was nine years old when Walt Disney produced the first movie I remember being a "must see": Mary Poppins.  After seeing it numerous times as a child, I bought the new DVD - thought I might enjoy seeing it again and sharing it with my nieces and nephews.  
Mary Poppins retains the same magic and wonder that I remember experiencing as a child. She still remains this enigma - who was she really?  Where did she come from?  What was really going on between her and Bert? The movie answers none of these questions - it just lets them float in the air like it's magical heroine. And that's part of its charm.  The film seems to live by Mary's maxim: "I never explain anything".  
Technically - the film holds up as well, even in this age of digital everything.  I was amazed to learn (in the "Making of" documentary that's included on the CD) that the film was shot entirely on the Disney soundstages in Burbank.  They never went on location; they never even went outside.  London is "painted in" in a series of beautiful matte glass paintings.  (If I remember correctly, even today, it is the largest number of glass background paintings ever used in a film.) 
Julie Andrews, of course, is "practically perfect in every way" as Mary - a much more idiosyncratic character than the governess she famously played in "Sound of Music" a year later.  And that clear soprano voice - never showy, always in character - just lifts the film.  Dick Van Dyke is wonderful as Bert - though accents are clearly not his strong suit.  But as a comic, a mime, a singer and a dancer he is charming as the Jack-of-all-trades friend of Mary.  
The DVD looks great.  It's letterboxed - but it wasn't shot in wide screen format - so you don't loose much on your TV screen.  The colors are snappy and true.  There is a new "Making of" feature, produced especially for the DVD hosted by Dick Van Dyke and featuring interviews with Julie, and some of the other technical team that are still around.  There is some great home movie footage of the chimney sweep dancers rehearsing "Step in Time" outside in the California heat stripped down to their skivvies.  
The one thing on the DVD I do NOT appreciated is a long series of promos for other Disney video releases that you can't cancel out of easily and skip to the film. I think it's rather shameless forcing kids to sit through those commercials to see their favorite movie.
All in all - a beautiful presentation of a classic film that adults and children can enjoy together.