Let me begin by stating that stylistically this film approaches art.  Others have noted that Argento is the "Italian Hitchcock," and while there are plenty of Hitchcock-like elements, such a title is really too limiting.  Argento was not afraid to steal good ideas.  Hitchcock can be seen in his camera angles during knife attacks, his first-person murder viewpoint, the steamy attack in a bathroom, the death of the attacking bird, etc,; Hopper inspired a life-size version of his painting "Nighthawks" in the middle of an Italian piazza; Munch can be seen in the paintings on the wall; and Sergio Leone (whom Argento worked with on the great "Once Upon a Time in the West") definitely impacted Argento's sweeping panoramic shots.  Together they add up to a fantastically stylish production that is unique to the horror genre.  The incongrous mixture of beauty and death makes the film that much more macabre.  I especially enjoyed the bright red that marks the parapsychology conference and the blue of the bathroom scene.  
Argento's choice of Goblin to perform the music was a risky, yet inspired, one.  In their soundtrack you can easily hear the strains of the music that would one day make the movie Halloween one of the scariest ever made.  Repetitive and intense, it almost becomes a character in the movie, driving the action forward.  That being said, at times the band overplayed it's hand, if you will.  There are several scenes where the music becomes too loud and verges on annoying.  Still, it is worth a listen.
Now for the down part: while Argento was a masterful director, I personally found the plotline to be a bit cheesy and was never scared or anxious during the entire movie.  Perhaps it is years of escalating violence in horror movies, but the murder scenes seemed almost trite, and the suspense was second rate.  Hemmings was wonderful as the protagonist -- a man driven by his need to find the truth about what he's seen, but the violence he encounters is more gory than scary.  The minor characters are either Felliniesqe (Gallo's gay lover) or bumbling (the police).  In the end, I was neither surprised to discover the killer or interested in their comeuppence.
So take this film for what it is worth -- a new art in making horror films that would impact many movies to follow.  Enjoy the direction, but don't expect too much of the plot.