Thank God for films that do not follow the standard form of what is disgustingly called "chic flicks".(Sorry, ladies, but it's the hard and highly-biased truth).  This movie is poetry in motion--by which I  mean Shakespearian Love Sonnets,Keats, the Brownings and Shelley.  The poem  begins with breath-taking cinematography of the Maine coastine, reaching  out toward the Atlantic.  I believe these scenes are repeated throughout  the movie to remind us that this is a seaman's story, which has, as many a  coastline villager of any country will tell you, both poetry and pain.  The  film moves along at an easy, mellow pace, giving the viewer time to guess  what really is going on in the characters' minds, and where the next fork  in the 'road of life' will go.  When you learn to love someone who "is  your true north", and then lose them, think what that must feel  like--total, utter abandonment, a sick-feeling in your gut that you are  really, really ALONE.  It doesn't surprise me that Gerrett is as open as he  is toward Theresa; hugs are good for things like this, as are the things  that go along with hugs.  But Catherine is still there, much like Michelle  Pfeiffer as Gillian in "To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday. There are  some heart-breaking and gut-wrenching decisions to be made, as there are in  real life.  Those who 'pooh-pooh' the ending and Gerrett's death, would be  better off reading Cinderella or eating chocolate.  It's your right to be  upset when you don't like a film's ending, but don't blast the whole movie  because of it.  I believe the acting of all three main characters to be  flawless and well in-tune with what I believe the director and producers  intended, a poignant, bittersweet tale of love lost, love gained and love  lost permanently. If you have ever seen "Love Story" starring  Ryan O'Neal and Ali Magraw, there are some striking similarities, including  the ending.  LIFE IS NOT FAIR!! but while you're living it, enjoy the  environment around as best you can, enjoy the people around as best you  can, and may God grant you the grace and friends you need should your  "North" be taken from you.