With Porcupine Tree, it is totally about the music. As a result, they are certainly to be considered one of the foremost bands when it comes to those that are making complex, lyrical, atmospheric and profound music. Their stuff is genuinely good and it is genuinely made. Looking at the number of 5 star reviews of this live DVD performance (practically all the reviews), it is obvious that their music is also becoming genuinely recognized and appreciated.

What can I add in light of all the previous 5-star reviews? Well..this concert looks great, sounds great and really shows off the creativeness and the technical abilities of this band. At one level, Gavin Harrison (the drummer) really is the highlight of this performance. He is without question one of the very best at his craft. Even upon additional viewings, I continue to be amazed at his abilities. He is the component that puts this band over the top and into greatness (think of Neal Peart with Rush). I was also impressed with John Wesley, a guitarist and sort-of part-time member of Porcupine Tree. He is another integral piece with his fluid guitar work and smooth vocals and is the perfect compliment to Steven Wilson, the lead singer and the creative force behind the band. In this performance, I also really noticed how the role of Richard Barbieri, the keyboard player, is primarily to add an atmospheric layer to the overall sound. He also, is a true craftsmen and its interesting to watch how he adds to the sound (in a much different way than say, Jordan Rudess of Dream Theater does). Then there is the guy who I want to be, Colin Edwin, the bassist. What better job than to play music with this band, standing around with a constant smile on your face?! That's Edwin, but of course, he is also very good too. Back to Steven Wilson. He is the frontman, lead singer and creative force. Everything he does is as good as gold. You can tell that with him, it's all about making great and interesting music. Overall, this is far more important than relying on the "rock star" image gimmick that most bands still seem to be in pursuit of these days.

Lastly, I'll mention that the set list is made up of some outstanding songs, including all the songs from the Fear of a Blank Planet CD. My personal favorites are Anesthetize, Way Out of Here, Dark Matter and Halo. No extras on this disc, but still entirely satisfying and worthy of repeated viewings. Enjoy!