I recently purchased this edition of the DVD and watched it with a friend who sat there the whole movie going huh?  To use the clich&eacute;, there are two types of people in the world, those like myself, who think that this is the funniest movie ever made, and those who just don't get it.  John Cleese once said that Fawlty Towers was more popular than Monty Python (the TV show) because Python appealed to the intellectual side perhaps this is true.
The Holy Grail is an unlikely classic, the troupe went out and started filming with no script and literally started slapping skits together. With one theme surround all the skits, King Arthur's quest for the Holy Grail; the Pythons were able to practice their strongest asset, skits.
This movie gets my vote for the best thing that Monty Python ever made, and the best comedy ever made.  Here they are in their prime, even after watching it years later it never gets boring, every scene is a classic, along the way we see the genius that made them famous.  What other comedy troupe has ever introduced such a wide span of characters from the oh so serious Dennis, arguing politics with King Arthur, to the silly French "Kniggits" who don't make any sense at all.
If for nothing else, Dennis's description of Arthur's ascendancy to the throne is worth the price of the movie itself.
Repetition is a often used tool in comedy but only the Pythons would take a joke in the opening scene and save it till nearly the end of the movie.
Also, what other movie is so audacious to end in such a way as Holy Grail?
The highlights of the movie are played by John Cleese as the Black Knight, the French Knight, Sir Lancelot saving a "damsel" in distress, and Tim the Enchanter, however there is not a weak member of the cast, all fill their roles wonderfully, including Terry Gilliam whose bizarre animations fit perfectly in a medieval comedy.
I can't think of another comedy that is worth watching over and over again, even after nearly three decades, Holy Grail is, in my opinion, the greatest comedy of all time!