When I first found out that one of my favorites books had a movie adaptation, I was thrilled. I went to Border's and bought the last copy, being a DVD. I was disappointed to find out that it was not worth what I paid for.

The movie is based from Jean M. Auel classic The Clan of the Cave Bear, the first in her Earth's Children series. The story is about a young Cro-magnon girl who is orphaned by and earthquake and how a Clan of Neanderthals take her in. The story also tells how she struggles to live with the Clan, with their customs and their physical differences.

The main role of Ayla is played by Darryl Hannah, who also starred in the Grumpy Old Men movies and Splash. Other actors include Pamela Reed at Ayla's adoptive mother Iza , and other actors as Iza's brother and Mo-gur Creb, the leader Brun, and the often disliked Broud.

Despite being a movie that was made in 1986, it did have decent special effects. The costumes and makeup that formed the Neanderthals that called themselves The Clan were very interesting in their authentic looking animal skinned clothing. What is also interesting to me is how the movie demonstrates how The Clan express their language. When a Clan member uses his or her 'sign language', subtitles appear at the bottom of the screen to translate what they're saying.

What makes this movie rated R is the fact that it does have inappropriate moments. The rape scene between Ayla and Broud could be a real turn off to some. Also at the Clan gathering there is a violent battle between a large Cave Bear and some young male Clan members.  Because of this I wouldn't reccomend it to be viewed by young children.

There are a few scenes that are switched around or changed from the adaptation from the book.  For example, the hyena that attacks Brac is a Wolf in the movie, and there is major changes during Ayla's first exile, Durc's birth and the Clan Gathering. This in a way is a slight annoyance, and disappointment.

The DVD doesn't have many special features. All it really contains is a chapter selection, and the DVD itself is double sided so you can choose between fullscreen and widescreen.

Overall the movie is not worth it's price. I payed $14.99 for the DVD and later found it at Fred Mayer and Shopko for $6.99. Unfortunately it doesn't have a very well rewatching value, either. Unless you're an obsessive fan of Jean M. Auel or Darryl Hannah's works, you may not enjoy this movie well. If I were you, stick to the book.