I LOve this movie!  Why you ask?  The acting was acceptable, the visuals were excellent, skirting that fine line between not giving enough and going overboard (which far to many sci-fi/horror movies do), the plot, while occasionally predictbale, was just fun (for example, when the "good guys" kill another survivor accidentally, and Ridick is just sitting in the chair drinking wine cool as a cucumber...hehehehe..clever.)  I could have done without the redemption, but it wasn't to heavy-handed...I was more fond of the reversal of roles.  The good characters are a pilot who almost killed everyone else, then when she is stuck with them, she misleads them by ommision that she is not the captain.  The cop is actually a bounty hunter, and more then that, a druggie who let a person die painfully to secure his fix.  And the bad guy (and I'm not talking anti-hero, I'm talking bad as in Baaaaaaddddd)  a merciless killer, who doesn't regret it, who acts more animalistic then human...however, that is to his advantage.  He is equipped to handle this situation, and without him everyone else is screwed, he knows it, and they know it.  It's probably not often that a homicidal sociopath can positively utilize his specialized "skills".  The ending is a bit....contrived, but not bad.  and for everyone who wants to whine about the logic holes, let me answer you this.  The logic in this movie is much better then most movies of this genre, and for this one reason.  how many times have you watched a horor movie where the guy/girl, after having sex in a house where teenagers were killed this very night 30 years ago, go and investigate a "suspicious sound", instead of doign the logical thing and tearing @ss out of there?  there are numerous other commonly accepted logic faultlines that run through this genre to contrive getting the actors and the monsters in the same space together.  However, Pitch Black actually addresses that easily.  They know these things only come out at night, and one of them asks what any reasonable person would "umm, why don't we just not go outside?"  Not an option as they have no food and the eclipse will last a long time.  Simple.  And yes it's the standard "there are scary things in the dark story", but it's got enough quirks and tweaks (such as the "eye shine job" and the view you get when you see through ridick's eyes) to make it engrossing.  so among a genre that you have to be willing to grant a bit more suspension of belief to enjoy, it's not only a good movie, but I'd say one of the better sci-fi/horror movies lately.  Also, you got to love the fact that for once, a movie has a "hero" ( and I use the term very loosely) who isn't noble, just, and honorable.  Rather he's the guy who can gut you and skin you in 8 seconds....and he would to....just after he gets done with the alien.  heheheheh