In Brief
No matter where we live, no matter who we are, we're all bound by borders, the people of Detroit know 8 Mile is the city limit, a border, a boundary. It is also a psychological dividing line that separates Jimmy Smith Jr. (Eminem) from where he aspires to be.  Focusing around a week in the life of Jimmy, the story looks at his highs &amp; lows, from the realities of life to the escapism found in performing, discovering where his journey has taken him, and what he must do to strive to make the change.  
Review
The hype has died down and watching this again on the small screen at home still feels as engaging as it did in the cinema last year.  The common misconception about the movie relates to how much of the real Eminem one is seeing. While some similarities occur, it is far from being about the man himself.  Yet dotted around the film are some in-jokes and sly nudges that will mean more to the true fan such as the slow track into position of Jimmy sat beaten by life outside his trailer being identical to the iconic cover image of the Marshall Mathers LP.  
Rising from the grime, Eminem's performance is both powerful and competent, allowing us generally to feel the character as a real person and thus making any sudden bursts of passion or rage as justified as the silence that surrounds them.  This is not the Eminem you will see on the stage; a casual session of Mc-ing in a lunch line seems genuine as the quiet white guy chips in for the first time, and we gradually see his confidence build in front of us.  There is something, dated about the narrative of this movie, you know the story and the inevitable conclusion.  Yet it is told with a style and freshness that draws you in as you come to relate with the daily grind and suffering that the mundane existence of life inflicts upon each and everyone of 8 mile's inhabitants.  Upon a second viewing the opening sequence is as strong as ever, as the nerves of a first time performance get the better of Jimmy and we literally experience his tension from inside his head, blocking the world out through our headphones as we practise our performance from a dank disgusting toilet.  
Comparisons can easily be made to the underdog succeeding movies of the eighties such as Fame or Dirty Dancing, but neither come as close or as realistically to the work on offer here in anything other than a dated format.  In all honesty it is refreshing to see a group of people depicted in a film from a poor urban environment freak out at the sight of gun during a fight, rather than move to a mass response of automatic gunfire.  To put it simply this may not be Curtis Hanson's finest work but its certainly worth another viewing if not more, we all have to endure hardships but relatively few us bother to push ourselves, this film like its central figure will succeed in the decision to do it for itself.  
The Verdict
Though the star &amp; director combined to produce a sure-fire hit, no one could have predicted if it would have any worth or merit.  Its not the finest film of all time by any length but it definitely knows its limits and works within them well.  While the DVD does seem to lack the gross of features many have today, among them are a few gems such as a never-to-be-released Eminem video &amp; 20 minutes of freestyle battles not featured in the movie. Its still the grittiest feel good film of the year and has some of the best beats on a soundtrack in a long time.  The bottom line: this is certainly not just another hip hop flick