Alot of people like myself have already made major investments in previous movie formats (8mm, Laser Disc, VHS, and before that Beta), so I for one, have lots of experience with shelf space and dust...too much of one and not enough of the other.  Consequently, I have become selective in what I choose for my DVD colection.  I will reinvest in DVD only to update my top thirty movies (you know the ones you have a need to play more than thrice-a-year), and the best of the new movies being released.  With that said, the SPECIAL EDITION TITAN A.E. on DVD will definitely not collect dust and very rapidly advance to your personal "best" list, as it did mine.
SYNOPSIS:  In the century 3000, the Drej, fearful of what earth (and earthlings) can become with its new technologies, attack a not-so-unexpecting earth.  Earth's last hope is a gigantic ship called TITAN.  Evacuating earth just before the Drej destroy it, military protocol separates Sam Tucker, the creator of TITAN and his gifted young son Cale, who's fate is entrusted to Tek, an alien friend.  Fifteen years later Cale, working as a junk recycler is found and solicited by Korso, an old associate of Cale's father.  Korso shows Cale that the ring his father gave him, with activation, illuminates a map thru Cale's genes which will locate TITAN.  Korso, Cale and the crew of the starship Valkyrie; Akima, Preed, Stith and Gune, embark on a quest to find the TITAN.  Earthlings, now considered the scattered scum of the universe are again hunted as the Drej seek to destroy TITAN by capturing Cale at all cost.
  The SPECIAL EDITION TITAN A.E. DVD contains several bonus features which for a change can be considered bonus because the feature itself is stand-alone-good.  The Fox featurette "The Quest for TITAN" is good and gives insight into the creation of the movie, examining every aspect of the film from prop concepts to the enjoyable (really!) music.  This is family mind candy for the jaded HEAVY METAL (movie) set, myself included.  The four DELETED SCENES, are an intersting mix of fully and/or partially animated backgrounds and characters that either elaborate on a particular scene or show an alternate view.  They do not however add or subtract appreciably to the movie.  One of the best scenes in the movie is the race between the "Wake-Angels" and the Valkyrie in a spectacularly colorful nebula region of space.  This scene's music being very reminiscent of a long ago Star Wars Xmas special featuring a minature halographic concert at Chewie's place. 
  Special effects are better than great, they are mesmerizing, and I don't classify that by saying "for an animated feature".  The imagination and ingenuity in the presentation of detail is...wow.  Example, look at the reflections on metal surfaces or the aquatic-like reflections inside the starship during travel...wow. 
The voice characterization, contrary to a well known critic's opinion are not bad, just not reflective of the well-known names behind them.  John Leguizamo (Spawn's Clown) as Gune never fails to reveal a new aspect of his talent.  Drew Barrymore as Akima is also surprizingly good.  Janeane Garofalo (Mystery Men's The Bowler's daughter) is Stith, Matt Damon is Cale, Bill Pullman is Korso, Nathan Lane is Preed, Ron Perlman is Cale's father, Tone-Loc is Tek, etc.  As you can see, quite a bit of talent here, professionally more interested in film character than name recognition.
  You will enjoy watching this movie more than once, alone or with the kids.  Its wonderfully lightweight, inventive and if scrutinized, satisfying in visual and audio re-discovery.  To me if it gets off the shelf more than thrice-a-year it's a classic but this one, well...wow.