Nia Vardalos was adorable, just like she was in "My Big Fat Greek Wedding"...I have personally toured Greece and have been to Athens, Olympia and Delphi just like they showed in the movie.  Richard's part was so like him in that he is another great actor that can "play" any character and be so great and adorable at the same time.

I am a "first generation Greek" in America and could understand the Greek that was spoken as well as the English so I was entertained by both languages spoken. That was a very special treat for me personally.

The movie was sweet, cute and a great show of how the Greeks in Greece really are in their ability to "bargain" and "seduce" tourists.  I experienced it first hand and the tour that I was on, was the same tour that they took us on in the film.

The scenery is so breathtaking and beautiful and Delphi really does "change" you in a very subtle way that even I came away touched by the oracles of Delphi.  The day that we were there was sunny and balmy and it was my favorite day in the 14 days that we were in Greece.

The story line was, to me, portrayed in such an enjoyable, sweet way and, of course, I was once again so touched to know that Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks were the ones that brought us this film just like they saw to it that "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" was their undertaking after seeing the play.

I feel personal pride in being Greek as is Rita Wilson and she has the ability to let the rest of the world experience, in a "family way," what it is to be a Greek in North America.  I actually thought I was the only little Greek girl "in the world" that didn't get to become a "Brownie" because I HAD to go to Greek School.  That was a "special moment in time" for me. to say the least.

Thank you, Rita and Tom, for allowing the rest of the world to actually become a part of the Greek culture in such an entertaining way and what you did was "right on" about what we, as Greeks, are all about and in such a "tender" way.

Another "A" movie on my list.