"Russian Ark" is not a movie for everyone. If you confine yourself to the excitement of thrillers, the suspense of mysteries, or even the self-indulgent introspection of psychological dramas, this is probably not the movie for you. This movie defies categorization.

 If you restrict yourself to reading prose, without once in awhile recognizing the poetic that a contemporary writer might inject into the work, this is not a movie for you. No, the movie is not a poem, but it is poetic.

 A course in art history, and a passing knowledge of Russian history, would be helpful in approaching this film. I don't think that art history course is necessary -- but, as I reflect on it, that knowledge of Russian history might be.

 As with all works of art, the reaction of the recepient of the expression may have no relation to that which the artist seeks to express. But it may be the recepient's reaction that gives life to the work. Could Leonardo have imagined that however many years later someone would write a song expressing puzzlement about the nature of the smile on the face of a woman whose portrait he had painted? I suppose I'm suggesting that a viewer of this film can walk away with a universe of impressions.

 The movie is touted as a tour through a couple of centuries of Russian history by way of a tour through The Hermitage -- the supposed repository of Russian art and culture. It is immediately apparent that the art works that are viewed are not Russian. Throughout the movie, there is little reference to any native Russian art. The only acknowledgement of Russsian Art is in the ballroom scene, where there is a bow toward Russian music.

 My, admittedly limited, understanding of Russian history is that Czar Peter, known as "The Great," tried desperately to Europeanize Russia. He succeeded, to the extent that the Russian asistrocacy adopted French as its language of court, and affected the manners of the royal courts of Europe. The movie suggests that this attempt to become European, at least at the aristocratic level, obliterated (denied?) the art of Russia -- the Russian soul.

 In the movie, the imminent destruction of the Russian aristocracy is powerfully presented in the scene following the ball, in which we see the members of that class descending a grand staircase toward their exit. Lest the point be too subtle, the viewer is treated to a subtitle that says: "Goodbye Europe." Yes, and it is also goodbye Russia, as they have known it.

 The movie was filmed in a continuous sequence, without cuts or, apparently, editing. Brilliant. The direction and cinematography are superb. That's all been said.

 Let's dispense with the conventional. What hasn't been noted is the film's unstated, but somehow felt, recognition of the ambiguity that is Russia. The film shows Russia's European face, but makes one wonder where, and when, the asian/slavic/whatever face of Russia will assert itself.

 A few paragraphs up, I stated that the film suggested an obliteration or denial of the Russian soul because of the aristocracy's adoption of European art. The film ignores, perhaps purposefully, the true expression of the Russian soul. Italy, France, Spain, and Holland have produced painters whose works approach immortality. But, is there a culture that has produced works that equal those of Dostheivesky, Tolstoy, Pushkin, Pasternak, Solchenisten? Perhaps locked into the artistic tradition of Orthodox icons -- post-Leninist heroism, or Stalinist repression, the Russian soul is expressed not through the visual, but through the telling of tales.

 On the surface, "Russian Ark" is worth seeing. The questions that I find posed by the film are simply a bonus. I rate it a "must see," but only if you're prepared for a bit of tedium.