Quite simply, Mark Hamill IS the Joker.  Although I rather liked Jack Nicholson's performance as Joker in the original Batman Motion Picture, Hamill is by far the best, even if he is just voice acting the part.  The Jokerz gang gets a new look as the movie begins.  Apparently, they have changed in how they commit their crimes.  Instead of going after simple cash, they start stealing hi-tech equipment.  This change of course, is due to the one and only Joker.  He has come back, and better than ever.  Right off the bat, when we are re-introduced to the Joker, we get a sense of the darkness that the character emits.  Instead of being cooky, the Joker we see in this movie is a MANIAC.  He is a lot darker, and in fact, sometimes he is even quieter than he was in animated series.  In the original Batman movie, Nicholson's portrayal of Joker was to be goofy and fun.  In Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker, Hamill's Joker is just downright SCARY.
There are, of course, other characters that are integral to the plot.  Terry McGinnis isn't really the focal point in this story, even though he plays the main protagonist.  It is actually the old gang of Batman, Batgirl, and Robin, that get the focus.  The reason?  They know what happened to the Joker a long time ago.  On one faithful day, we witness an event that is life changing to all those involved.  I don't want to reveal any spoilers, but let me just say that what is revealed is quite surprising.  
Overall, I thought that the movie did a very good job of story telling along with displaying well done action sequences.  Still, there are a few gripes that I have with the movie.  First, is the Jokerz gang.  The gang from the animated Batman Beyond series are replaced with new characters.  These characters, while being nicely varied, don't do a good job of portraying the Joker himself.  In the cartoon show, the  Jokerz gang were unruly, but had the same sense of humor that the Joker did.  In this movie, we get a group of circus-freaks that are uninspired and play a minimal role.  Also, the animation wasn't that much better than the cartoon series, however the focus of the movie was on the story, not the looks.  Then there is the length of the movie.  Its a lot shorter than I would have liked it to have been.  I think there could have been more scenes that involved the Joker originally meeting the Jokerz gang.  Still, the story is told well enough within the time frame.  Finally, there are the cuts that WB is planning to make for the movie.  The version I saw was definitely not kid friendly.  There are some scenes of torture, as well as blood in this movie.  I personally believe that the movie should be released in two versions, one uncut and one edited.  This movie was good and I hope that the live action feature(being created by the same team that developed this movie), will be as good as the animated film