If I were stranded on a desert island and all I could have was my abysmally sparse movie collection, I would make sure "The Fugitive"  was in it.  Thankfully, it is.  This is one of the most entertaining and engaging movies ever, far superior to a lot of movies playing these days.  For the few of you who don't know the plot, I'll run it past you without spoiling much...
The story revolves around a Chicago surgeon named Dr. Richard Kimball (Harrison Ford) who is convicted of murdering his wife (Sela Ward).  He pleads innocent, claiming that a one-armed man committed the heinous crime (the opening sequence, showing the murder in flashback style, is chillingly realistic).  Well, no one believes the good doctor's alibi, and he is sentenced to death.  However, after his prison bus crashes into a train, he escapes back to Chicago to find the murderer, while keeping away from US Marshal Sam Gerard (Tommy Lee Jones) and his team of deputies.  
Having never seen the old TV series, this movie was nevertheless fantastic.  The thrills just keep coming, as well as the tongue-in-cheek humor, courtesy of Tommy Lee Jones and Joe Pantoliano (as Cosmo, Sam's deputy), who really steal the show in a lot of scenes.  The screenplay is obviously very sharp.  The train-and-bus wreck will take your breath away, as will the waterfall sequence.  Aside from these action scenes, it's great that this movie is shot in Chicago, one of the greatest cities in North America.  Sorry, personal bias, I loved Chicago when I visited a couple years back.  The acting is very well done, and the characters are very three-dimensional.  Sometimes it feels like you're watching a modern "Les Miserables".  Nice transition from action thriller to action-mystery as the film enters its second half.  If you follow the plot, which is fairly easy to keep up with, the ending will shock you.  All in all, "The Fugitive" is definitely worth the bang for your hard-earned buck.  If you haven't seen this wonderful piece of movie-making, do so ASAP.
Quality-wise, the DVD is pretty good.  Director Andrew Davis does  a cool little documentary on how the train wreck was filmed.
MOVIE-10/10
DVD EXTRAS-8/10