It has been alluded in the past that George A. Romero once said that zombie films have about another good five years before Hollywood and the public tire of the genre. However, this does not seem to be the opinion George A. Romero has as of 2010 when he has been quoted by the Boston Globe as saying -- the genre is here to stay, and "I don't think it will ever die."

Of course, Romero is more than a little biased, but I suspect that he must be excited about the abundant interest in zombies these last few years.

And what an exciting time for zombies, especially when with a mere $75 dollar budget (Rumored), you too might earn a Cannes showing and $1 million dollar buy from a Japanese distributor (Rumored). This certainly was the case for a British-made zombie film called "Colin", which is an unconventional zombie-centric POV film that many fans of this genre have craved. A film with character versus the shock and mayhem we are often exposed to in this genre. I am not knocking the wildeye of the zombie apocalypse, but this introspective look into the death of a young man and his inevitable turn to zombie are reflected carefully and with instinctual specification from zombie eating behavior to the memories of his life before living undead.

The pacing is neither tiresome or stuck in fast forward. Situations develop. They properly creep and shamble, dragging the viewer into the world of the zombie while emphasizing the emotional brutality and eccentricities of humankind and the undead.

There is gore and brutality, but it is handled in a realistic and non over-the-top manner. The party scene in which we encounter a small band of humans fending off 20 or so zombies in an apartment is visually horrifying. In one particular instance, a young man is ripped from the clutches of his friend and dragged away into the horde. The tension, the will to survival cannot match the numbers and strength of the horde, but the young man hangs on to the bitter end. The pacing accentuates the tension and futility of struggling humans and the crack shot sound editing compliments the agony and gushing empathy the viewer will have toward the impending doomed fate of the young man.

There is very little dialogue in this movie. There is more screaming, hissing, environmental noise, and background track, and this only serves to amplify the plight of the tiny corner of British civilization underseige by flesh eaters and supports the stark visualizations of our zombie's POV.

I understand why this movie went to Cannes. It is a zombie movie that like Fido is a trailblazer in terms of where this genre is going. Just as zombies have evolved over time in film and other media, the zombie film itself has evolved. It's longevity can only be credited by the ability of this genre to change and adapt. I am personally excited to see where zombies venture forth in the future.

The movie pays some homage to the movies that have come before it. Pay attention, to the shout out to Romero's "Day of the Dead's" Bub. Look for color reference. The solid backbone of this movie is it's very allegiance to follow this one character without falling prey to absurd cliche. With each frame he is relateable, primitive, and sympathetic. In order not to give the plot away, I am withholding a better explanation of what makes Colin so sympathetic.

I leave you with this...

The movie I believe begs us to ask ourselves some questions such as, "Are we that far removed from Zombies let alone animals and/or our primitive ancestry?" You be the judge.

Excellent movie and one to own.