HOLLYWOODLAND.  There's something here that shouldn't be missed. Is it the story surrounding the controversial death of tv's Superman, George Reeves?  Is it the possible cover-up for/by Hollywood playmaker/ producer/ thug Eddie Maddix and his complicated relationship with his wife, Toni Maddix, the Hollywood police department and the press?  Is it a naïve actor, unsophisticated in true affairs of the Hollywood elite?  Is it the acting by such renowned legends as Bob Hoskins, Diane Lane and Adrian Brody...with Ben Affleck giving a very credible performance as Reeves?

Or is it, at the heart of this tale, a simple and understandable relationship that was appealing from many sides yet complicated by those who held privileges from the periphery?

To me HOLLYWOODLAND, the biopic of the death of George Reeves in 1959 from very suspicious circumstances and most likely not from his own hands, is all of the above with the weight of truth being a simple and understandable tale of an endearing, but complicated relationship between a younger man and an older woman.

Let's set aside the fact that Toni Maddix was already married.  Let's also set aside the fact that her husband, studio chief, Eddie Maddix was a game player and a game changer and wouldn't think twice to assert his influence even if it meant someone liberties were compromised, to put it mildly.

It's been exactly 51 years since his passing and all of the people connected with Mr. Reeves' death had also passed away.  With the exception of Noel Neill, who played Lois Lane and Jack Larson who played Jimmy Olson, no one can objectively tells us what the man was like.  From the interviews I've read about Ms. Neill and Mr. Larson, they speak with an air of authenticity that makes it difficult to draw any conclusion other than George Reeves seems to have been a helluva nice guy.  And, that he most certainly did NOT commit suicide.

So, what went wrong?

Reeves met Maddix at an upscale wateringhole in Hollywood.  He hadn't worked in awhile and wanted to meet some power-players to get his career back on track.  He spots Maddix across the room and this Northeastern-bred, "southern gentleman" (as Neill and Larson called him), charmed his way into her life.  According to the movie, Reeves accidentally discovered her identity and marital status the morning after when he picked up the newspaper.  She comes for a cup of coffee and a discussion ensues.  It is clear to Reeves that his life is about to get complicated unless he ends it there.  That's precisely what he tells her.  But, he doesn't. What a night it must have been.

I winced and had flashbacks of my own as the movie went on when thinking of my own affair with a much older woman many years back.  One thing is perfectly clear, they both wanted different things.  If it's anything similar is that she wanted what he had and he wanted what she had.  She wanted another chance to experience life 10 years earlier and wanted the freedom to escape the boredom of her privileged existence.  He wanted the respect and the credibility that she wore.  Their relationship was born out of an equal measure of regret and hope.

As strange as it may seem, Reeves played an important role in Eddie Maddix' happiness with Toni so when Reeves "dumped" the old woman for a skanky piece of tail he was, in Eddie Maddix' mind, failing to live up to his obligations, so to speak.  Do I think Eddie Maddix wanted to exact some kind of revenge against Reeves who publically renounced his wife?  Most likely.

About the performances, Bob Hoskins is magnificent as Eddie Maddix and Diane Lane as Toni Maddix was mesmerizing.  I also felt that Adrian Brody gave a very, very compelling performance.  Ben Affleck, his best work.  I can hear George Reeves in Affleck's performance but I didn't see or feel "George Reeves/ Superman" in his performance.  Reeves strikes me as having a quiet kind of charisma, sort of like Morgan Freeman, I don't know anyone off hand who could probably have summoned up the spirit of Reeves except for maybe Edward Norton.  But, that's neither here nor there.

There's much to like about this film but, empathetically and cathartically, there's much to love.