You know how, when a movie is overly-hyped, that sometimes by the time you see it, it's like -- What was the big deal?  
Well, the reverse works, too - sometimes a movie is put-down and criticized sooooo badly, by the time you see it you say to yourself, "This wasn't so bad" --
"The Haunted Mansion" begins by showing us real estate agent Jim Evers (Murphy) closing yet another deal.  Turns out the guy is one hot seller, but it's been at the expense of spending time with his wife (and business partner) Sara (played by the beautiful Marsha Thomason) and their two kids -- daughter Megan and son Michael.  Finally wising up to the fact that he's been working too much, Jim agrees to take his family away for the a weekend to the lake ... after stopping at just ONE MORE appointment, when Sara receives a bizarre call from a creepy-sounding butler whose master wants to sell his home.
The butler, Ramsley (Terence Stamp), was VERY adamant on the phone that Sara was to come alone, but Jim (as usual) takes over, and the family drops by on their way out of town.  This turns out to be a huge mistake, for they're immediately trapped in the old mansion when a storm washes out the one and only road to the place.  And when Master Gracey (Nathaniel Parker), the master of the house and a dashing gentleman with eyes for Sara, shows his true hand at what he has planned, it'll take all that Jim and his kids have to break the curse that hangs over the haunted mansion -- and save Sara's life.
This is a great film for a family to watch - kind of spooky for really young kids but otherwise okay (I'm a single guy, and even I liked it, so it's not JUST for families, either).  Eddie Murphy grated on my nerves at first as Jim - but then again, he should have, because Jim was a workaholic in need of a wake-up call.  The special effects are top-notch, and Murphy is backed by a supporting cast that keeps up with him nicely (including Jennifer Tilly as the fortune teller Madame Leota -- a floating head in a crystal ball of green smoke).  Some laughs, a few chills, and maybe a bit too much of a smarmy ending make the film enjoyable -- and, at only 82 minutes, not too painful even if you don't like it!
A friend of mine brought this over to watch, but I plan on buying my own; it's a sweet little spooky comedy that is easy on the eye, and good for when you want to just pop it in your DVD player for a quiet evening of tame entertainment.  And again -- I put this on with no expectations, and was pleasantly surprised.  On its own merits, the film works beautifully.