I want to start by saying what a HUGE fan I am of this show. I used to watch this show religiously every week when I was in elementary school.  Looking back, I am surprised it did not frighten me.  Seeing Vincent angry could send chills down a person's spine pretty easily.  I fell in love with this show when I was little. The beautiful love between Vincent and Catherine.

I never got to buy individual seasons of this show because the retailers where I live couldn't keep them in stock long enough.  When I found the complete series set, I was elated, to say the very least.  The price is fantastic.

I personally love the look of the packaging.  I was suprised to see how the individual seasons are presented in the box.  I assumed they would appear in the same manner in which they were sold originally.  They are not.

The only major complaint I have is that Season One is the only season with a play all feature.  I prefer having the play all feature on a dvd box set for a television series.  It saves me from having to fiddle with my remote.

At any rate, this won't stop you from enjoying this show, if you were a fan in the 80's, and falling in love with it all over again.  If you are a newcomer to the show, you will find something for everyone in this fantastic series.  Lovers of romance will find storylines to accomodate them.  People who love mystery and intrigue will find something to accomodate them as well.  Action seekers will also be accomodated by this show.

I give this series 5 stars not just for the memories it gave me, or the lessons it taught me about love, but also for what it represents which is finding beauty in a world where it seems impossible to find.

I also have to mention my favorite quote from the show.  Once you read it, you will know why this show endures so much with fans.  "Though lovers be lost, love shall not, and death shall have no dominion."  In season three, they put lyrics to the theme song during a montage.  It said "The first time I loved forever was when you whispered my name and I knew at once you loved me."  I don't remember the rest.

For anyone who hasn't seen the show, I do not wish to spoil it. So I will say that as a child I was not real keen on Season 3 because of a tragic event that takes place.  It ripped my heart right out.  The show is still a brilliant, well written, well produced, well acted series.

If you want to watch a series that will give you a piece of "once upon a time" in your modern life, you should definitely buy "Beauty and the Beast" - The Complete Series.  This show endures with the same beauty and heart that it had when it premiered 24 years ago.  The phrase "they don't make shows like this anymore" is completely true with regard to "Beauty and the Beast".  This show is a true gem!