After all these years, "The Time Machine" (1960) remains a very entertaining movie.  Of the five or six films produced by George Pal, "The Time Machine", which was also directed by him, along with "The War of the Worlds" (1953) are probably his finest films.  Both films are loosely based on the novels of H.G. Wells and, for their time, boasted state of the art special effects, for which both films won an Oscar.

Rod Taylor is the lead character, supposedly H.G. Wells himself, who claims to his friends to have invented a time machine, allowing him to travel back and forth in time.  His brief discussion with his friends, attempting to explain the principles of time travel, similar to the Wells novel, makes it seem almost plausible until one thinks about it a little longer.  Taylor,  whose British accent slowly fades away as the picture goes on, plays his character earnestly and is surrounded by an able cast:  Sebastian Cabot, Tom Helmore, Whit Bissell, Yvette Mimieux, Doris LLoyd, very likable as his house maid, and, in particular, Alan Young, who delivers a perfect Scottish accent, as his devoted but practical-minded Scottish friend.  Why not? Alan Young grew up in Edinburgh.

The special effects for this film are basically simple but effective, using time-lapse photography to simulate the acceleration of events that one would supposedly witness if he were rapidly moving forward in time.  His journey, after a few brief stops to observe the two World Wars and a nuclear attack pointedly set in the mid 1960s, ultimately takes him several hundred thousand years into the future in which he encounters a race of "beautiful people", the Eloi and a race of barbarous beings called the Morlocks who are (literally) living off the Eloi.  At this point the screen play of the picture and the novel of H.G. Wells part company, the movie pretty much resorting to melodramatic action for its resolution.

The video quality of the DVD is very good and the sound recording, as a pleasant surprise, is in genuine and high quality stereophonic sound although it was never presented that way in any theater in which I saw this film.  The music is a rich orchestral score by Russ Garcia and adds a good deal to the effectiveness of the film.

I thinks it's safe to say that this film version of the Wells novel, with all of its shortcomings, still betters the 2002 remake in spite of the technical superiority of the newer film.  Alan Young makes a brief but welcome cameo appearance in the 2002 film which, unfortunately, fails to convey the atmosphere of H.G. Wells that the older film, at least in places, manages to accomplish,