This is conceivably my favorite movie of all time, and definitely my favorite soundtrack.  There is so much more to this film than I've seen anyone write.  Sure it's a romance, horse, child loving horse, injured child (mentally and physically), horsey guy, etc. and whatever else you've read about this movie.  But what I'll attempt to write here is what you're not going to see anywhere else.

My personal favorite dynamic in human to human or human to animal relationships is the garnering of trust. And someone, or both, having that intuition to be such that they earn that trust. This is what you have in this movie.  Some spoilers may be involved here...

Kristen Scott Thomas' character is ill - on the fast track professionally and away from a quality marriage.  Some might call that success and indeed her character was so caught up in her life that she probably thought she was doing fine. Scarlette Johannson's character is ill as well - both physically and mentally from the accident and from a lack of true connection to her parents, especially her mother. The horse is, well, broken - physically, of course, but traumatized from the accident.

These three come to beautiful, clean and pristine (but not over-the-top gorgeous - as I've heard Redford say that he wanted the landscape to speak for itself -intrinsic beauty - not from the photography making it beautiful - paraphrased here) country and they meet Robert Redford's character. He is so peacefully understanding of what these other three are about - he takes stock of the mother (all New York of her), the horse (traumatized) and the girl (resistent and hurting).  He presents himself in such a way that he is totally non-threatening and they all, on their own levels, come to trust him...and they heal.

It is a movie about trust. There are prices to pay for that trust, for sure. Redford's character opens up in a way he never thought he would again but I like how this director ended the movie rather than how the book ended.  The book ending made no sense in the context of who the character was so I appreciate that Redford changed it. The mother pays a price for sure....the horse and the girl...well, they're healed and all is right with their world..

There are many levels on which to watch this movie - the photography is gorgeous, the horses, the way of life - all beautiful....the music, well, gorgeous and grandiose in parts....the characters multi-level....The husband (Sam Neill)is intelligent and shows he has a good understanding of how his marriage is and the changes his wife has gone through while with Redford. It's a tear-jerker for sure - I don't think as many times as I've watched this movie, that I haven't been crying at the end. But I hate to see it end....Enjoy this movie - I envy you the first time.