'Legends of the Fall', is indeed a film title that brings a sense of fear and drudgery into the hearts of men across the globe who would inadvertently label this epic 'a chick flick'. Add this to the fact that the film stars none other than hollywood's finest - Brad Pitt - and one may assume that their preconception was accurate. However, what we are delivered is an epic tale that contradicts all previous misconceptions.
Legends of the Fall[LOTF], depicts the tale of 3 brothers, their father, an indian tribal family and a lady, set in the late 19th early 20th century. Indeed, this does not sound very interesting , but as the story unveils through an excellent and engrossing script, LOTF shines from many other hollywood incartions as a film, where thought has been applied, rather than millions of dollars on overused special effects. 
The strong story is backed by some truely delightful performances form Hopkins and Pitt, and this coupled to the brilliance of Quinn and Osmond, produces a very believable tale, hypothetically of course. The cinematography employed in LOTF is nothing short of spectacular, and if watched properly on a large screen, envokes a sense of depth which is truely breathtaking at particular points. The score is strong as all epics should be and helps add depth, but may be overworked at points.
However, some parts of the story are less believeable than others, and im sure this will be resonant from other critics of the film. Examples include the war scene death ritual, and the journey scenes by brad pitt, and this adds a fictional aspect to a film that, at points, exhibits characterstics of a drama. This bipolar discontinuinity is sometime frustrating and almost non-sensical, but overall does not disrpute the course of LOFT. 
In essence LOFT is a well crafted affair that will be rememebed either for its brilliance or for its length. It is not another mindless film where everything is corrected at the end and all characters exude with happiness, but rather an engrossing tale, which when rememebered will be thought of favourably. 
Overall, definetaly a film to watch, especially if you have a night free and wish to be qietly surprised
A.Roy