When commie Carl Foreman wrote this, he was following in the footsteps of his fellow Communists in blurring, blending, twisting and ultimately distorting the age old story of good vs. evil. Many of the reviews of this movie over the decades have said that this movie was a way for Foreman to portray himself vicariously as Cooper in standing up for what is right when he lied before the House Un-American Committee about his Communist ties. His testimony occurred long before Senator Joe McCarthy showed up, but this film is somehow an attack on "McCarthyism" and McCarthy, who never served in the House of Representatives or on HUAC. It is a classic example of how the communists were so successful in infiltrating the US opinion makers. The recent revelations of the KGB have shown that McCarthy was essentially correct, and that Communists in the USA took their orders from Moscow during the Cold War.

The good part of the movie is that the USA has historically had men and women who have stood up for what is morally right. The bad part of this movie is that the extraordinary country that the USA is had been co-opted in many ways by a very smart and very smarmy Communist like Foreman, who steals the ideal, and like the rat that he was, contaminates it to make it something closer to his goal of using good motives for evil purposes. Try to find a movie that exposes the fact that Stalin murdered millions more than Hitler in his evil program to advance communism. You won't find one because the ethos of Hollywood is still steeped in the tradition of supporting communism as these multi-millionaires have their chauffeurs drive them to the studio from their seaside mansions in Malibu or Beverly Hills.

Cooper is great in this movie, but it is defiled by the legacy that its author was yet another commie agent who viewed the masses as stupid and easily subject to manipulation. Kind of like a Cold War Moore. Unfortunately he was very right in this regard as proven by many who view this movie as a triumph of attacking a Senator who has been shown much more correct than wrong. Sad thing about the end of the Cold War. When it ended, the rocks got picked up and the roaches had nowhere to hide. And Foreman would have been left exposed to explain himself if he had still been alive when real freedom triumphed over the evil he supported all of his life.