I don't agree with the most recent reviews of this film, although I did enjoy it very much and do highly recommend it.  I don't think it's only about the mother's cancer but also about April and her mother's struggles.  The cancer is the agent that forces them to deal with one another at this particular critical moment, but the issues are bigger than the illness.  April is much more like her mother than either admits.  The mother clearly has some of April's spice in her that she has sacrificed to being a suburban wife, and her resentment of the compromises she has made adds to her pain at the rebelliousness of her daughter.  The image of Joy's addled mother's disapproval  makes clear that she has allowed much of her own spirit to be blotted if not broken.

Nor is this family a dysfunctional one.  In fact, they are a very loving family, which is why the ending is not such a surprise.  The father obviously adores the mother and the real tension in the family is among the women.  But tension and resentment don't make a family dysfunctional, but human.  There is brutal sibling rivalry between the two girls, and jealousy and envy between each of the girls and their mother, as well as a deep desire for approval, not always conscious.  The father clearly loves his rebellious as well as his more conventional daughter, and believes April will pull off a successful  Thanksgiving.  He is also used to serving as referee  among them.  But lots of calm and  loving spouses of both sexes do that for their more highly strung mates, it's more usual than not.

What is unusual in this situation is that April has matured and is in a loving relationship of her own, as she points out by telling her father that Bobby reminds her of her dad (the humor of course comes from Bobby being African American and not exactly Mr. Cleaver from the house in the NJ suburbs......the irony of course comes from the drug dealer boyfriend who is white and beats up Bobby just before Thanksgiving dinner, and just in time to freak out Mom and Dad.)  This allows her to recognize her love and need for her family, and to move away from her intense hurt and  resentment of her mother's conformity.

I think the writing and the performances in this film are great, and though Patricia Clarkson stands out (Academy Award nominated performance) and definitely MAKES the picture, the dad (Oliver Pratt) and the siblings, Bobby and the Grandma all do fantastic work.

I really found this film both charming and delightful as well as sad and TRUE. I don't want to tell the story because that would ruin it, but it reminded me a little of GARDEN STATE in that it is obviously inexpensively made, the work of talented actors and writer/director, yet more in a larval stage than fully developed.  But it makes you eagerly await what these artists will turn out next, and it tells a truthful story about life and love and the ways we face death.