To any one reading this review, who has never seen an episode, I invite you to a story and review that I am sure will lure you into buying this set !!  Just kidding but it's worth a read if your unsure if this is the show for you !!

My husband gave me "Without a Trace" First Season as a Christmas present. All I can say is thank you Santa !! We watched the entire First Season in rapid succession.  It was VERY compelling.

"WITHOUT A TRACE" is a riveting procedural drama about the New York Missing Persons Squad of the FBI. The sole responsibility of this special task force is to find missing persons.

They use all kinds of cool tequniques including:

psychological profiling.  This techniques peels back the layers of the victims' lives in order to trace their whereabouts.

They try to discover whether the person was abducted, murdered, committed suicide or simply ran away.

The team reconstructs a "Day of Disappearance" timeline that details every minute of the 24 hours prior to the disappearance.

They dig into every facet of the victim's life, following one simple rule: learn WHO the victim is in order to learn WHERE the victim is.

Senior agent Jack Malone (Anthony LaPaglia) is tough but compassionate. He is a seasoned and astute professional who heads up the team! His acting is flawless. Lapaglia is my favorite leading male character in a drama!

His sqad is comprised of equally talented actors, whose diverse backgrounds and work strategies lend to the shows originality.

The team includes:

Samantha Spade, an agent whose blonde good looks belie a tough, complex approach to her work.

Vivian Johnson , a no-nonsense investigator with a special insight into victims' families.

Danny Taylor, whose sensitivity is often covered up by his street smarts.

Martin Fitzgerald, who joined the team as a result of his father's connections but has since earned his stripes.

As the agents work on varied and complicated cases, details about their own lives continue to unfold.

In closing, although the theme of the each show sounds narrow "FBI searching for missing people" I promise you each show brings new plot ideas & character growth all of which NEVER feels repetitive.