Initially, I decided to rent this movie to view a perspective on the Civil War that didn't portray the North as god-like gladiators for once in my life.

Lets say a 10 means this movie is the new Citizen Kane, and I'll be raving about it to my friends for weeks.
Let's say a 0 means I'm turning it off.

I started this movie at about a 7, for the reason listed above. In the opening scene of the movie, blacks and whites are depicted picnicking together, lolligagging, and playing dignitarian chess with one another. I was confused. Although this came off like some apologists wet dream, I still had some faith that this movie could be redeemable.

The first scene of painfully slow dialogue began, and the number instantly dropped to a 5. Yes, the dialogue is painfully slow. Every scene in the movie is slow, monotone, and overly dramatic -- as overly dramatic as slow and monotone acting can be. Every time a new set of dialogue appeared, I found myself cringing at the fact that I'd have to sit and wait for another five minutes. In fact, this dropped the number to about a 3, as it quickly becomes unbearable and brings the progress of the story to a crawl.

The acting is terrible. And it seems, with each introduction of a new character, I had to cringe and give them the benefit of a doubt. About three quarters of the way through the movie, my number dropped to a 1; I was gathering the strength to get off my couch and eject the disk I was pretty sure I wasted my money on.

Three fourths of the way through, there's a sex scene with the *beautiful* actress, who plays the love interest of the main character; although the scene is quick and pointless, the fact that I got to see her bare back brought the number up to a 2.

Then I was tossed back into slow, agonizing, poorly executed dialogue, and I couldn't bare it anymore. I had to turn it off. 0. That's right: 0. Off switch.

In closing, this movie is about the quality of an old PBS film. The story line is painfully obvious, the acting is terrible, the dialogue is unbearable, and there's really nothing in this film that contributes to the fact that it's "based on a true story." I just consider myself fortunate that I rented it, instead of bought it.

I wouldn't recommend this film to my worst enemy. I guess I'll just have to watch a Northern gladiator movie next time and root for the bad guys.