This story is about a vulnerable hillbilly saloon entertainer, Cherie (Marilyn Monroe), who is bowled over and smothered by an unworldly, manner less rodeo rider, Bo (Don Murray) who seeks to find a lady companion. They are two opposites that end up attracting in the end. A sweet story, Bus Stop was very enjoyable although a little unbelievable at times. Marilyn Monroe is sweet, naive but gorgeous as usual. Hard to believe that she would end up marrying Bo and being happy. Hmm...
The story begins when a rough rural cowboy sets off to a Phoenix rodeo with his friend Virgil. Virgil suggests that it is time for Bo to meet a lady friend. Bo sets his sights high, saying that he will know the girl when he sees her. Then, enters Cherie (said with a French accent) on stage whisperingly singing "that ole black magic". Bo falls head over heals for her on first sight when searching for his first "angel".  Bo, inexperienced and naive about women, believes that he has found his wife in Cherie (he calls her Cherry) and proceeds to bring her aboard their Greyhound-style passenger bus on their return back home to Montana. 
Cherie is confused as things are moving quickly. She struggles to get free of Bo, even claiming to a fellow passenger that she is being abducted against her will by Bo and his ranch companion Virgil (Arthur O'Connell). She doesn't want to marry Bo. Everything changes when the bus is stopped due to a blizzard and they are stuck all together at the bus stop lodge for the night. 
Grace's Diner is where bus driver Carl ends his frustration with Bo and decides to fight him to stop him from his angry fit once he discovers Cherie was trying to escape. After a knock down, drag out fight, Bo comes to his senses and apologizes to everyone for his unruly uncontrolled behavior, but mostly to Cherie. Cherie sees the sweet side to Bo and sees that he really loves her. She decides to board the bus to Montana, along with the wedding ring invitation.
In conclusion, Bus Stop is worth seeing for Marilyn, if nothing else. Her acting and singing are so-so, but her unmatchable sweetness is worth your time!