9 years ago, I saw a trailer for an upcoming series on FOX that astounded me. A television series based on Vampire: The Masquerade, a highly underrated role playing game in which the focus was not on blood and death, but rather on the eternal struggle between the clans in The Camarilla: Brujah, Gangrel, Malkavian, Nosferatu, Toreador, Tremere, and Ventrue. Six clans are represented in Kindred - five of The Camarilla, and one other. The clans are: Brujah, Gangrel, Nosferatu, Toreador, Ventrue, and a clan of assasins, the Assamites.

It is a tragedy that this series ended so quickly, especially because of the circumstances that promted its early demise. Kindred was an odd mix of elements that many found to be strangely compelling. It was successful, I believe, mainly because of its off-the-beaten-path approach. Instead of focusing on death, it focused on unlife. Instead of violence, it focused on character development. Ultimately, this is what gives any series or movie lasting impact: interesting characters and a strong story. The tragic part is that the most fascinating character of all was unfortunate enough to die in a motorcycle accident. Mark Frankel was a perfect fit for this role: strong, charismatic, and talented. His career was far too short.

Many parts of this series may seem weak and underdeveloped, but that, in large part, is due to its untimely end. Given a few more seasons, this show had the potential to become one of the most watched series on television. Its timing was perfect. In the midst of a rash of overblown teenage and family based nighttime soap operas, it was a stark contrast with its dark atmosphere and haunting soundtrack.

One of the most important reasons people continue to sing the show's praises is the storylines. The many and varied subplots were interesting, and we cared about the characters. The forbidden love between Sasha and Cash, the burgeoning love between Julian and Caitlin which made him remember his humanity, the bitter struggle between the Ventrue and the Brujah, the hidden past of Archon - the interweaving storylines were cut together perfectly to hold the viewers' interest, to hold them in suspense as each section played out, wondering what was happening in other areas of the story.

In the end, however, I think the most interesting part of the story lies in its message. Life is not as simple as black and white, good and evil. It is made up of shades of gray. Often we are forced to make choices that we do not like, because we know that the alternative could be much worse. The show forces us to realize a painful truth: the monster is in us. What we do with it is up to us.