Dark City is a wholly unique world with its own visual eccentricities, emotional archetypes, and a twisted set of repressive rules.

This movie is true science fiction in that it posits a technology and attempts to explain how humans would react to that technology and the totalitarian world created by the effects of its use.  And does it much better than Lang's Metropolis, by the way.

Yes, the movie is visually dark, complex and disturbing.  The plot is also dark, complex and disturbing.  Yet, to me, the revelation of what is actually happening to the characters is what sets it apart.

Some people complain about the relatively flat affect of the actors.  I believe the director strove for this.  Imagine how people would react in a world that physically changed overnight.  Imagine how your emotions would be torn apart if you lost your parents one day and your wife the next and your memories of both have been erased from your conscious mind while parts floated around in your subconscious.  With no emotional anchors, people either get manic, psychotic or depressive.  Most of the characters in this film are depressive.  And the main character is both depressive and psychotic.  Don't expect normal emotions in a decidedly abnormal world.  Ul;timately, it is very difficult to be a full human being when you are really just a rat in a cage.

Keifer Sutherland is brilliant as the twitchy doctor who helps perpetrate the mining of human minds for the "Strangers", but who, ultimately proves all too human.  His fervent idiosyncracies contrast greatly with the other humans wandering around lost in a constricted, confusing prison of a world.

The final shot of that world makes clear what the movie is all about. If you don't like this movie, you just don't like science fiction.

It kills me how so much "sci fi" is popular for the very reasons some don't like Dark City.  When Empire Strikes Back is the most well-crafted film of the Star Wars series, yet has the lowest box office, you will understand that many people do not want to contemplate how technology and creatures without emotion might affect their world.