There were many facets of the film which made me ask "Would that happen today?" Peyton showed up and was I guess more or less hired on the spot. Most folks would presumably say "Well, we'll discuss your resume and prior experience and get back to you with our final decision.." yet we see Peyton Flanders (Mrs Mott) hired right away. I think most Americans would have just hired a Mexican gal, probably at half the salary paid to Peyton. Perhaps Peyton's character today could have been a Hispanic woman (the gorgeous Eva Longoria comes to mind) who merely pretended to be illegal.

 Not ever having hired a nanny I assume that a full-blown criminal background check would be done just as it is for day care staff or school bus drivers/cafeteria workers/custodians.

When Peyton (Mrs Mott) is in the hospital after her miscarriage and total hysterectomy she looks up to see the woman who initiated the complaint against her late husband. I dont think today accusers have their image in the news (think of the Kobe Bryant rape case) so Peyton would not have seen the woman she blamed for the suicide of Dr Mott. The story line doesnt reveal much about how much Peyton loved her late husband. It might have made the character more interesting to have this miscarriage not be her first. Late in the film--as Claire sees the nursery room of Peyton's now repossessed home-- we learn that even after her miscarriage and hysterectomy Peyton evidently continued pumping her breasts to "keep her milk up". It might have made for more realism if there could have been a scene with Peyton showing up with a leak on her blouse, or perhaps Claire could have found a breast pad among Peyton's personal affects.

A gynecologist or endocrinologist would have to confirm whether a woman who underwent complete hysterectomy would even be able to lactate that many months post operatively.

 The scene wherein we see Peyton wake up at 3am and quietly sneak into baby Joel's nursery room was perhaps the most emotional. When Peyton first picks up the pillow from the rocker you envision her suffocating the infant (and perhaps letting the grieving family believe it was from SIDS) instead she does what seems to be an outwardly loving act, straight out of a La Leche League PSA! Its only as the film progresses and we see Peyton's manipulation of Emma that the breast-feeding is seen as a way to subvert the infant's bond with his real mother. A backseat breast feed is inferred from the scene where Claire is franticly searching the contents of her purse for Michael's grant proposal. Claire is of course later concerned when her baby isnt nursing as often or as long as previously.

Ernie Hudson's innocent handyman is the only one capable of seeing the evil behind Peyton's charade. The tension between Peyton and Solomon could have easily been mined for more intrigue, and we arent clear as to why Solomon didnt reveal Peyton's nursing Claire's son. Or why for that matter didnt Peyton drape herself during the daytime. A better script could have had Solomon bring the matter to the Bartell's attention only to have Peyton's false version of events discredit Solomon in the eyes of his friends.

It does strain credulity to see Claire so clueless up until the end of the film when suddenly she has enlightenment and she correctly identifies the threat posed by Peyton.