Of the five mainstay Universal Horrors (Dracula, Frankenstein, The Mummy, The Wolf Man and The Creature from the Black Lagoon), the last two on that roster were the only ones to emerge as serial characters where the studio  had no literary material to fall back upon to make the screenplay just an  adaptation. Stoker, Shelley and media hype (in the case of the Mummy, but  with a little Stoker thrown in there as well) had seen to it that only  three characters were charted in this manner. On 'The Wolf Man', the  production team outdid themselves and there are absolutely no complaints I  can bring to mind when reflecting on this picture. Well, perhaps this:  while watching, I did become a little annoyed at the cliches of the  fog-laden ground, the overexplanatory acting and the way you can tell who's  going to die next (way easier than even looking at the guy in the red suit  on the old Star Trek series) before I realised that the cliches that would  come into being all stemmed from here. This is a tremendous work that seems  to have more in it than the 69 minute job documented on the back of the  case. The set is delicious and has every right to star alongside Lon  Chaney, Jr., who, despite his physically cumbersome style, is in his  element here. The supporting cast are excellent, especially Lugosi (good to  see him take a ride in the back seat for a change) and the enigmatic Maria  Ouspenskaya. Now, I should take some time to rant and rave about the superb  make-up but that would be childish.....you know how good a job Asher does  on Chaney. The strongest point of the movie? Definitely the set. Not only  does the mist fulfill a functional role but the atmosphere it donates to  the picture is mindblowing. You want to hide yourself in this mist and feel  the adrenalin rush of watching the werewolf strike somebody else....very  cosy and conducive to horror indeed. I'm a younger viewer (25 years of age)  but had seen this on TV a few times in my early life. I had to have it.  This is an honest Universal original that doesn't have the cramped, stagey  feel of 'Dracula' or the strained, overly proud presentation of  'Frankenstein' or the  'remember-that-mummy-thing-?-Look-what-we've-gone-and-done-about-it'  flavour of 'The Mummy'. Not to attack any of those earlier smash hits but  Universal studios had matured a little by the turn of the Forties and was  ready to give back something all of its own. If you find anything corny in  this movie then blame yourself for having become biased by modern cinema.  This is arguably the best of the classic horrors; unarguably good value for  money when it comes to shocks and atmosphere.