Sequels are sometimes the most infuriating devices in the world of cinema.  A sequel can either transcend a series or completely invalidate it.  "Terminator 2" cemented Jim Cameron's apocalyptic films as iconic emblems of the science fiction genre.  On the other hand, it is commonly held that the latter two "Alien" sequels were the ruination of Cameron and Ridley Scott's compelling visions.  "Psycho" did not need a sequel, but got one anyway.  So did "Escape from New York".  
Imagine then, the sheer audacity of creating a sequel to "2001: A Space Odyssey", not only a great science-fiction film but also considered one of the greatest achievements in the whole of cinema.  Compounding this fact is that the visionary director of the first one, Stanley Kubrick, would not be helming.  Instead, it would be Peter Hyams, a director whose previous forays into the genre were the decent, though not extraordinary, "Capricorn One" and "Outland".
Certainly, Hyams was aware of the act he was following and perhaps followed a line from Clint Eastwood's "Magnum Force": A man's got to know his limitations.  Hyams approached the making of "2010" in the best way - by working closely with Arthur C. Clarke in adapting the screenplay from Clarke's novel of the same name.  The major difference between "2001" and "2010" was that the first is a story of revelation, whereas the second is a story of explanation.  In this difference, Hyams would find the avenue to deliver his own powerful vision.  
"2010", as both a novel and screenplay, is a simple morality tale with science-fiction elements serving as the judge and messenger.  In its own way, it is a more ambitious take on the theme and story of "The Day the Earth Stood Still".  The key to "2010" was not in allegorical images, but in clear conveying of the plot while at the same time keeping the fantastic elements just beyond the full grasp of understanding.  Hyams accomplishes this with his solid screenplay, first-rate special effects worthy of the groundbreaking original, a cast of versatile actors (led by Roy Scheider and Helen Mirren), and the ambitious use of Keir Dullea and Douglas Rain in their original roles.  In the end, "2010" is a perfect compliment to Kubrick's original vision, a follow-up that does not try mimicking the first film, but rather stakes out its own idiom.  By understanding the nature of  "2010" and by respecting the work done in "2001", Peter Hyams crafts a worthy sequel and a wonderful film in its own right.  Recommended to any and all.