Most avid fans remember Ridley Scott from having directed "Alien" and "Blade Runner" which are some of the most famous Sci-Fi classics of all times. Black Rain in many ways captures the "feel" and atmosphere of "Blade Runner" but in a non-futuristic way. The story is set mostly in Japan and combines the local experience from an outsider's point of view along with the seudo-futuristic and seudo-surrealistic sourroundings of the city of Tokyo. The cinematography is excellent just as Blade Runner's and the movie does a great job in making you feel right as if you were part of the premise. The story line is not the deepest but it is original, specially for the genre. It deals with a demi-corrupted cop who after a series of incredible events involving the Japanese mafia and some chases through foreign lands, finds himself in a position to choose right from wrong in order to absolve his troubles. If you love Blade Runner then this movie is a must for you but, if you didn't like Blade Runner, then this movie may not be your cup of tea. Ridley Scott is a very versatile director who created iconic movies such as "Alien", "Blade Runner", "Thelma and Louise" as well as the ever-popular "Gladiator". He also has directed other movies that merit mentioning even though they are not necessarily pictures I liked. Movies such as "1492, The Conquest of Paradise", "GI Jane", "Kingdom of Heaven" and (in my opinion) an attrocious sequel to the "Silence of the Lambs" simply titled "Hannibal". Ridley Scott is a very visual director so the bulk of his movies have at least great photography and art direction. "Black Rain" in my mind, is one of his best at that. He also teams up with Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia who are very accomplished actors Douglas has also proven himself to be a good director as well as an excellent producer (having produced "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"). Kate Kapshaw has a very good performance on this movie in a character that is a far cry from her "Indiana Jones" character (although they both hang around nightclubs to earn their living). The bad guy in this movie is a character named Sato (excellently played by Yusaku Matsuda). Unfortunately, Matsuda died later that year from bladder cancer and we never got to see his potential career spand the way that it should had. In all, "Black Rain" makes up an excellent example of the Ridley Scott era of "atmospheric" cinema and I, for one, recommended highly.