Disney has done a superlative job transferring "Alice in Wonderland" to DVD.  The colors are eye-popping, the picture is razor sharp and there is no visible grain at all.  I was blown away by the picture quality.

Now, on to the film.  "Alice in Wonderland" has always had problems.  Even Disney himself did not feel it was very good.  He said once that it lacked "heart."  I don't know what it lacks, but I do know Disney made a MAJOR mistake in allowing the voice of Alice, Kathryn Beaumont, do her own singing in the film.  The girl had a HORRIBLE singing voice, so horrible that Darlene Gillespie of "The Mickey Mouse Club" actually re-recorded Beaumont's vocals for the "soundtrack" album.

Another problem is one that is inherited from the book, which is a meandering, episodic storyline, each segment having absolutely nothing to do with the last.  "Alice in Wonderland" is really an unfilmable book -- there have been at least half a dozen screen versions made, and none of them have been very good.  And frankly, I doubt if anyone ever WILL make it into a good movie.  It's just not a book that lends itself to being filmed.

Another problem is one that Disney ran into in "Mr. Toad":  His characterization of the British is not quite on the mark.  His characters are CARICATURES of the British.  Disney didn't quite seem to understand the whole British sensibility, which is key to Lewis Carrol's humor.  Disney's "Alice," as well as his "Mr. Toad," seem too Americanized, like he didn't quite "get" the books on which they were based.
In addition, the character of Alice doesn't seem to have much of a personality, and what personality is there is not very likable.  She's kind of a whiner.
All that said, the Mad Hatter's Tea Party is wonderful and so is "The March of the Cards," which also is my all-time favorite instrumental from a Disney film.  And Tweedle-Dum and Tweedle-Dee are PERFECT (their "That's logic!" line actually makes me laugh out loud), although I don't particularly care for the Walrus and the Carpenter sequence.  There are also many brilliant pieces of visual invention in the flower garden and forest sequences.
So, for adults anyway, "Alice in Wonderland" is a mixed bag.  Not one of Disney's best -- but it sure makes a great-looking DVD!