I liked this movie.  Finally a football film with some characters with depth that was not an orgiastic celebration of the game for uber fans.  Unlike the movie Rudy, there were issues other than football in the movie and there were Black characters (plural), not just one black janitor at Notre Dame a school not known for its racial tolerance off the field.

Yes some characters were a little stereotypical but at least there was a range of Black and White characters in the movie.  It was nice to see Black kids who were intelligent and portrayed as typical teenagers.  Black teens I know, like my nieces, nephews and cousins, love to dance so I personally did not see this as a stereotype or portraying them as "soul brothers".  There was a White kid who was shown struggling with academics, this almost never happens in a movie, usually minority characters are portrayed as academic disasters.  Denzel portrayed Coach Boone as an inspiring leader.  Coach Yoast's character as written focused on someone who struggled to cope with racism internally and from his peers. And the actor made you see and understand his struggle and you felt for him.  His daughter Cheryl who loved football was a great portrayal, a girl who is not interested in dolls and her apperance is refreshing.

When I see a movie that is "based on a true story"  (based on my past experience researching movies that I love) I assume that 80% of the facts are probably wrong or dramatized to fit in with the director's/ studio's vision of what is bankable.

For example  - the VonTrapp family in the sound of music was not really chased into the alps and forced to climb a mountain to cross into Switzerland.  They took a train to escape.  However quickly and calmly leaving on a train is not as dramatic as going to the abby and hiding from the nazi's taking the caretakers car into the mountains and walking throught the mountains to switzerland on foot with the nazi's at your heels.

So believe it or not screenwriters take dramatic license with the stories of real people to tell a story that will sell because the idea is to make money.  If the goal is truth and realizm it is usually done in the format of a documentary.

A movie is supposed to tell a profitable story.  In this case the story was school integration the tension surrounding this issue in a southern community and how the Titans played the perfect football season.

The soundtrack is awsome I loved the mix of soul and mainstream music from the era.  It was a nice movie especially for parents and tweens.