First off, an overall great movie that I've watched several times. Great direction by Zemeckis, and Jodie Foster is brilliant as usual, and Sagan's ideas are well worth bringing to the screen.

Now for the nitpicking...

--SPOILER WARNING--

I haven't read Sagan's book, but I'm guessing the story was altered to give it a wonderful sappy ending in which religion and science are "both right". Maybe they are both right, but this movie sure didn't show it. Because the ending has a monstrous gaping hole.

In their effort to teach Ellie (and us) a lesson about faith, the writers contrive an ending where Ellie is left with nothing but a memory to verify her wonderful experience. An angry congressional inquiry, led by the James Woods character, investigates, and comes up with an alternative explanation for everything that has happened -- that it's all been an elaborate hoax perpetrated by the eccentric genius Haddon. But this is ridiculous, for many reasons. For one thing, how did Haddon come up with radically new technology capable of generating lightning and tidal waves yet inside of which "the weather's fine"? He's smart, but not that smart (he has self-sealing door metal technology that he never thought to sell?).

But more importantly, a signal from deep space could not be faked by a satellite, especially one that's been verified in Australia. And even if it could, THE SIGNAL WAS STILL THERE during the entire building of the machine. The aliens could not have known it was received at least until Ellie made her journey, so they would not have stopped transmitting. There was all the time in the world to verify that the signal was in fact coming from Vega. So there was clearly a message sent by aliens, and the public anger over wasted money makes no sense. So, the entire ending of the movie seemed stupid and manipulative to me. The message of this movie should have been "science trumps human stupidity", but that message wouldn't have been commercial.

Oh yeah, and don't anyone ever put Matthew McConaughey in a sci fi movie again. Please.