There is no way that this fourth season will capture the enthusiastic responses from fans of the previous seasons. Although some shows can survive the departure of a lead character, it seems unlikely here. Fans of the previous seasons will both enjoy and loath this new season, and new fans will not be attracted. Watching these episodes one cannot but realize how integral Jeff was to the show's success and how much everyone else functioned mainly in supporting roles. Think of those "Jeff-ism" episodes that you have forced visitors in your house to sit down and watch ("I've got too many legs" "Oh, Jeffrey" etc.) and then bemoan the absence of anything in this series that comes remotely close to matching those. It is somewhat sad that one of funnier scenes in the entire series involves a dream sequence in which Jeff "returns."The Oliver character struggles through some horribly written lines with abysmally-timed comedic acting but does become believable, if not likeable, by the end. And yes the other characters do mature, Sally, Jane and Patrick becoming less neurotic, less crazy, and less dumb along the way...but it must be said, also perhaps less funny too. Gone as well are the clever storylines: nothing rivals the innovation of the temporaly displaced Hebrew-English translation, nor the time-shifted split screen episodes for example. Instead we have a collection of fantasy bits that while funnier than Allie McBeal are often less so than Scrubs for instance.

Bottom line is that there is nothing here that one will watch and enjoy in two decades time as one can (and indeed does) with the entire Faulty Towers series or with selected gems from the Doctor in the House series, and I expect one will with a handful of selected episodes from the first three seaons of Coupling.

So should you buy it or wait until it is shown (again for some) on American television? If you are a big fan you have probably bought it already. If, however, you thought the first 3 seasons were hit and miss, you should do the latter here. It must be admitted though that even after all the criticism, even an average episode (and you have 6 of them here) is still better than 4/5ths of large network sitcoms from this side of the Atlantic.