I saw this movie when it first came out in the theater.  I laughed hysterically then, and on viewing it now I still laugh.  There are priceless comic bits throughout the movie - "Use your charm", Madeline Kahn's whimpers reading the sex book in bed, the taxi driver answering "Yes, Eunice", Vocal Reverberation under Spinal Pressure, etc., etc., etc.

Loosely taking Bringing up Baby as a pattern, this film inserts 4 suitcases for 2 leopards, tosses in the screwball female with the nerdy professor and comes up a winner.  But while Bringing up Baby had a great comedic cast, the ensemble here actually does it one better.  Madeline Kahn is a scene stealer right from the start.  You do not realize how hilarious her performance is until you go back and watch the film a second or even a third or fourth time - to see where the original script would have placed the focus of the action, and then how she manages in her understated way to garner the attention.

The other cast members are priceless as well - Austin Pendleton (the stuttering attorney in My Cousin Vinny) is great as Frederick Larrabee, donor of the Larrabee prize.  His reaction throughout the banquet scene to Streisand is fantastic - "She's a gem" - making Ryan O'Neal/Howard Bannister's renunciation of Madeline Kahn/Eunice Burns inevitable.  Kenneth Mars is the other conniving aspirant to the Larrabee grant, John Hillerman is the hotel manager who has just had a room destroyed, and a bit of Buck Henry and Randy Quaid at the banquet.  There are so many great minor performances that it is impossible to document them without presenting an endless list....

The chase scene is the final third of the movie and it is one of the biggest, most over-the-top chase scenes envisioned.  Bogdonavich took all the wacky chase scenes from the silent films and compressed them into this one.  You have the just-missing-the plate glass window scene, the just-missing the newly poured cement scene, and the addition of a chinese dragon, a VW, strange costumes, the SF harbor ferry, and a bicycle.

See this movie - you'll laugh, then laugh again, and again and again...