In 1962 Warner Brothers Pictures released two film adaptations of two great 1950s Broadway musicals.  Their delightful filmization of "The Music Man" struck all the right chords, from the casting all the way  through to art direction and the shimmering stereo sound.  It was a hit in  1962 and has been fondly remembered ever since.  But that same year came  the movie version of "Gypsy" and for everything they did right  with "Music Man", Warners was roundly criticized for just about  everything they did to "Gypsy."  But looking at this film today,  we can see that it really isn't nearly as bad as many critics thought.  Indeed, it's far from a screen classic, but the story is so powerful, the  music so engaging, and the production so beautifully handled that it is  entirely possible to overlook the flaws and enjoy the show.  Let's get the  big issue right out of the way - the casting.  Rosalind Russell is  possessed of a seemingly innate haughteur that works against the grit that  Madame Rose is supposed to embody, but she gives a whale of a performance  here.  No, she isn't anywhere close to Ethel Merman, but then, no one ever  has been - Merman was unique.  And yes, Roz is dubbed (extremely well, by  the way, by Lisa Kirk) for 95% of her singing vocals.  But the vocal  matching is very well done, and Roz gives it her all performing the great  song stack presented here.  Karl Malden is, well, Karl Malden.  He acquits  himself nicely in the thankless role of Herbie.  The oddest casting isn't  either one of the former.  It's Natalie Wood as Louise Hovick (who becomes  Gypsy Rose Lee).  A gorgeous young woman, Wood was utterly incapable of  giving a naturalistic performance on film (other than in some of her  childhood roles).  And, she simply wasn't, by any stretch of the  imagination, a musical performer (try as she might, God bless her).  Her  lack of naturalism actually works in the earlier parts of the story.  She  is playing after all, an untalented girl.  But when she has to bloom, she  looks splendid, but can't pull off the soignee chutzpah that's  needed.
The film is beautifully designed, photographed, and scored.  And  the soundtrack (originally in mono) has been juiced up with a 5.1 surround  mix, making that razzmatazz Styne-Sondheim score sound better than ever.  The whole thing still packs a punch thanks to the strength of the story,  and the professionalism with which it's presented.  The Technirama frame  has been overmatted at about 2.55:1 for some reason, but the mastering is  clear and clean on DVD.  Two outtakes from a 16mm print are included: the  duet reprise of "You'll Never Get Away From Me" (which is the  only time that Herbie gets to sing in the whole show), and a portion of the  great song "Together Wherever We Go" - both were apparently cut  after the 1962 premiere engagements.  The latter gives us a scary taste of  how truly limited Russell's own vocals were.