This is NOT truly a Disney movie.  It was developed by the now defunct C.O.R.E. Digital Pictures (who also assisted in Valiant and The Ant Bully).  Disney slapped their name on it and rolled it out as a Disney film, but The Wild is simply masquerading as one.  It was under production even before Madagascar, but unfortunate timing caused it to come out about a year afterwards, and was immediately branded as a ripoff.  The two films share many similarities, although the storylines are quite different.  This was special effects wizard, Steve "Spaz" Williams first film at the director's seat as well.  Some of these coincidences might have been truly unfortunate ones... if the film had been any good, and The Wild... while it can be said that it is indeed an animated film, it is certainly not a good one.

Animals from the New York zoo end up in the wild - including a giraffe and a lion.  Sounds familiar?  Yet that's where the similarities end.  Madagascar was a genuinely amusing movie, with entertaining, personable characters and a good sense of timing - both comedic and dramatic.  The Wild is short on jokes, short on plot, and the characters may as well just be set pieces, for all the personality they have (and lack thereof).  The squirrel's fascination with Bridget the giraffe is as odious as it is ridiculous, with Benny the squirrel being an obnoxious character.  Nigel the Koala is oftentimes cruel, wishy washy (he considers letting his friends be lunch to further his own god status), and delusional.  The snake - an anaconda - is too stupid to even mention, and goes through the movie on a one trick pony.. squeezing other critters.  The only redeeming point of light is the mane attraction, Kiefer Sutherland's lion, and his cub son.  They go through some trite father/son parental issues, and that's as far as it goes...

The movie runs at a hyper speed pace and never slows down.  It's chaotic and kinetic but not in a good way.  Lame one liners, forgettable characters prancing across the screen and overly loud modern rock tracks blast away, while the movies goes nowhere.  Twenty minutes feels like an hour... and by the time the movie is ended, I personally was just glad it was over.  The animation itself is not bad, it takes a more realistic approach to character design, instead of the stylistic look of Madagascar.  You can count the hairs in the lion's mane, but the look is rather bland and just as memorable as the rest of the film (which is not at all).  Of course making the animals stick so close to reality makes for some really awkward moments, such as the dance chorus of wildebeast... yes you read that right.

Once the animals manage to get to The Wild (Africa) to rescue the cub who previously spazzed out and had a stupid "run away from home" teenager moment, they become embroiled in the most ridiculous part of this flat film.  The wildebeast (lead by an off-the rocker performance by William Shatner), have decided that they would no longer be prey and would become predator by eating the flesh of lions.  Somehow Nigel the koala is elevated to their god status, and there's some hoofed dancing and other craziness that goes along with the spooky volanco scenes.  None of this flows very well, and feels disjointed throughout the film.

The Wild is simply not a good movie.  Adults are likely not going to enjoy this, for there is little that entertains.  I found it to be ludicrous, boring and lacking any kind of movie magic.  Madagascar is definitely the better film, and rightfully is lauded as such.  The Wild is like a platter of leftovers, bland and warmed over.

With that being said, my kids both enjoyed watching the movie.  They have not asked to see it again, but they did like it the first time.  It might be worth the rental to entertain kids that have seen every other kid friendly movie out there - but the adults will want to find something else to do in the meantime.  The Wild flopped tremendously and killed off its studio... and it is easy to see how and why.