Anyone who spends any time around me will quickly find that there are some movies that I can watch or "watch" almost on repeat for an extended period of time (I put watch in quotes because sometimes I'll have a movie playing while either going to sleep, at the computer, cleaning, working, etc.). JFK became one of those films.

I didn't see it until probably almost 15 years after it came out. I was scouring an auction site for old, cheap laser discs to add to my collection and came across it. It wasn't much, so I ordered it. It probably sat on my shelf for another year before I remembered that I owned it and finally popped it in. I hadn't been purposely hesitating, it's just that, you know, I had heard some not-good things about it and it wasn't a priority. I was pretty blown away by it and started recommending it to anyone who hadn't seen it. Yeah, it's not exactly rooted in reality, but as a crime procedural-thriller, it's a good flic! It's got solid performances from the entire cast, Stone was doing interesting things with lighting, cinematography, etc. and it's visually interesting. And, yeah, while Costner is completely tolerable his accent is both unnecessary and pretty bad. Garrison was originally from Iowa and didn't talk like that. Heck, the real Garrison is in the film (as Justice Warren) and he sounds like hes' from the middle of the country, not the south (you can also find videos of him on Youtube). Costner plays it like Garrison is from the Bayou-- but a cartoon Bayou. Other than that, though, he's good.

I picked it up on Blu-Ray so that I wouldn't have to change discs to watch the last half (and the Mr. X monologue is one of my favorite parts). Yes, it's long spanning several years, but it's intriguing unless you can't switch off the part of your mind that just can't let this exist as entertainment instead of a documentary. It prompted me to spend a bit of time on line reading about some of the historical players in the film and reading some of the criticism of the film from a historical perspective. The film is fun for what it gets both right and wrong, what it represents and misrepresents, and as a supposition of what could happen and why. Also, the BD transfer is fantastic looking. Great color, the intentionally over-exposed bits are very bright, the shadows are dark, the warmly shot scenes are very nice looking. And the cast-- wow! There are enough stars and great actors in this film whose collective careers span the better part of the 20th century. And, hey, this film will give you plenty of ammo for your next Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon! You could probably get to Charlie Chaplin in just a couple jumps from here :)

I say just enjoy it for what it is: a political crime procedural with some thriller elements. If you look at this as a historical document it's my opinion that you're doing it wrong.