There has never been a greater voice in popular music than Roy Obision.. That may be a bash statement but when you view this video, and just look at the expressions on the faces of this cast of All-Stars backing him up, I think you will see the argument for Orbision as the best ever.. These great performers all are in awe of the great Orbision performance. You can just see how honored they felt just to be on the same stage as this genus.. Thank God Cinemax did this Super Session performance. It was filmed just one year before his untimely death in 88. There never was any Orbision performances filmed that can come close to this Classic. His greatness can now live on forever through this classic performance of his timeless music.

  A Roy Orbision ballad is like no other.. His vocal range is unmatched by any male pop singer. An Orbision song just didn't come to and end, it came to a climax.. Many music fans like try to rank Orbision among  others like Elvis, but even Elvis recognized Orbision as the benchmark of male vocalists. There's a good reason that there are about a million Elvis impersonators and hardly any Orbision impersonators. Anyone can  sing an Elvis song, only Orbision could sing his.

  This Video is now available in 3 formats. The original VHS, which I own, was a great start to reliving this great event. I pretty much wore out my copy. You maybe able to find a used copy somewhere but do yourself a favor and get the DVD instead. The audio on disk is much better than the original VHS.. It's now also available on HD DVD in a widescreen version which sounds great. But if your only looking to buy just one copy, this standard version is my choice. The sound is still great digital 5.1 and there is also a audio CD included so you can take it out with you. I just read a good review  on the HD version, the reviewer mentions that there are also more extra features on the standard version.. I also don't see the problem of watching a 4:3 version as that was the original format the way it was filmed 20 years ago. Besides it's even in Black & White.. I even own a HD DVD player but I can't see a reason to buy the HD version...