Two of Hollywood's biggest names, Sean Penn and Nicole Kidman, and a highly respected director, Sidney Pollack, come together for the exciting and intelligent thriller, `The Interpreter'.

Nicole Kidman stars as Silvia Broome, a UN interpreter who, upon returning late one night to collect some belongings, overhears a threat to the life of the controversial leader of her African country. The catch is, it was in a dialect that only she and a handful of others speak. Then comes Tobin Keller, the Federal agent sent both to protect her and investigate her claims. With her political background and the uncommon dialect of the threats, however, Keller is sceptical of whether she is really telling the truth. The story unfolds, with threats to Silvia's life and the arrival of the political head in question, and finishes with a twist you won't see coming.

Kidman and Penn are solid in their leading roles, and Catherine Keener gives a great performance as Keller's sarcastic (and undershown) assistant. Whilst Silvia is a complex and at times uncertain character, Tobin Keller comes across as the stereotypical overworking Agent with family problems. Fortunately, however, Sean Penn manages to still make this role interesting. The plot, though at times a little hard to follow, is clever and will keep you guessing and surprised at the turns the film takes. The other remarkable aspect of the film is that it is the first (and as yet only) time that filming has been permitted in the majestic UN headquarters. This not only adds to the realism of the movie, but is a magnificent setting to watch the events unfold in.

The DVD also features several notable bonus features. There is an alternative ending to the film as well as trailers and deleted scenes. Then there are a number of segments featuring interviews with some members of the cast and the director, Sidney Pollack. Firstly there is a feature on the making of films by Pollack, showing behind the scenes of the director at work. A segment on the United Nations building shows the rooms of the great building both through shots from the film and other footage, and also provides information on the UN and the filming of the movie in the headquarters. This makes for interesting viewing and is one of the best of the bonus features. The other standout feature is one on the vocation of actual interpreters. This features interviews with some UN interpreters and also the Pollack and Nicole Kidman. As well as these, there is an audio commentary for the film done by Pollack and the director talks in a segment about the choice of film format for his movies.

`The Interpreter', though at times difficult to follow, is an excellent film, featuring some of Hollywood's most popular and skilled actors and director. Though not perfect, this is a thoroughly enjoyable thriller that I recommend seeing.