I was underwhelmed by Reservoir Dogs, I thought Pulp Fiction one of the funniest movies I had ever seen, and now Jackie Brown makes me realize that Tarantino may be the only contemporary commercially successful American director who can be compared to the 70s boy geniuses, Altman, Coppola, and Scorsese.  The reason, after watching Jackie Brown, is obvious: he is an actor's director  and can write the dialogue they need.  These performances, with one very disappointing exception that I'll come to, offer ingenious rythym and detail and, most impressively, blend superbly, like a first rate musical ensemble.  Their styles match into a whole greater than the parts.  Clearly, it isn't just that Tarantino can write the dialogue--it's that he knows how to direct it, how to conduct it.  Samuel L. Jackson's bravura arias of show-off profanity are as specific and joyous as Fischer-Dieskau singing Schubert.  And yes, Robert Forster and Pam Grier are both communicating here at a level of creativity for which I can find no parallel in contemporary American movies.  Even Michael Keaton, an actor whose work has not really impressed me very much, is interesting here. Tarantino seems to keep a lid on him and instead of his usual excess and self-consciousness, he gives off a sense of depth.  We wonder what his character is thinking, who is he, where he comes from.  And Keaton's face has grown more interesting too--the wrinkled jaw, the slightly bulging eyes give him a sort of Nicholson craziness, though with more brains.  A nice surprise.
DeNiro, however, is lousy.  What happened?  The performance is sluggish and crude.  Watching him so inert amidst all these beautifully modulated perfomances made me think of Eli Wallach in The Misfits surrounded by the nervous and newer rythyms of Clift and Monroe.  DeNiro, whose performances had such energy and definition back in the 70's and early 80's seems like a dinosaur here.  (Is it my imagination or is the trouble only when he tries to play characters that aren't very bright?  He can't do dumb without  making it really boring too-- a serious limitation given the roles he takes.)
I am so thankful for Tarantino.  He's one of the handfull of reasons that it's still worth going to the movies.