Now, I am by no means a Sergio Leone fan, but he deserved the Oscar for Direction for this film.  I firmly believe that this film stands up there with "The Godfather, Part II", "Casablanca", and "Citizen Kane" as one of the greatest films ever released (maybe the best).  Sergio Leone's violent, visual, masterpiece of turn of the century Jewish boys from New York growing into a life of crime has a different effect on all those who have viewed it in its various forms.  I, personally have never seen the shortened version so I can not comment on it.  There isn't anything in this film that isn't worth the four hour running time.  Brilliant, poetic visuals, great photography and fantastic performances across the board.  
Leone touches on issues of violence (the scenes are gory and sometimes explicit), sexual depravity (its no coincidence that all sexual encounters are in unconventional places and only in Noodles' rape of Deborah does he exhibit any kind of emotion toward any of his partners, gently caressing and kissing her as he violates her in a pathetic attempt to show his love), and simply growing old (brought about by the reminisces of Noodles' childhood with a beautiful good 'ol days type feeling despite the criminal nature of his childhood) and leaves us clamoring for more after the four hours are through.
Robert DeNiro is fantastic as always as Noodles.  But it is James Woods, in my opinion that steals the show as Max.  William Forsythe, Treat Williams, Danny Aiello, Burt Young, Joe Pesci, Jennifer Connely and Tuesday Weld add to this film just as actors of their quality are expected to.  Their performances, as well as the two leads at the very least deserved, but didn't recieve any, Academy Award nominations.  (In fact, the Oscars were the only ceremony to snub this film).  Ennio Morricone's score was as beautiful and evocative as one would expect from the master of the Italian score.
Worth seeing.  Sit back, take the phone off the hook and prepare for a cinematic experience.