"Code 46" is a largely unknown movie here in Malaysia. Most folks here haven't even heard of "Blade Runner" or Philip K. Dick. They loved "The Matrix" because they thought it was "cool" (the all-encompassing word for hip and stylish but really another of those words that mean absolutely nothing in this blank generation) but I suspect it had a lot more to do with Keanu Reeves and marketing. "Code 46" is far better than any of the above. Of course, I know that I'm in the minority here - I think that "Dark City" and "Thirteenth Floor" were far superior to "Matrix" also.

"Code 46" is set in a dystopic future where the Sphinx Corporation have taken over the world. By the world, of course, we really mean, the CITIES since the undesirables (the diseased, the genetically inferior, etc.) are outcasts outside the CITIES. The world as we know it is a network of cities and the entrance checkpoint to every city requires the entrant to be equipped with a papelle (some kind of "genetic" passport, if you will). Violation of "Code 46" means that people with similar traits in their genetic structure have babies together - thus producing potentially genetic-inferiors. Tim Robbins play an agent investigating a factory in Shanghai producing fake papelles. Samantha Morton plays the girl working in that factory who is responsible for the fake papelles (which she then sells to the undesirables so that they too can live in cities or travel to other cities). They both have similar genetic traits (owing to excessive cloning activities in the previous generations). Problem was, Tim and Samantha fell in love and had a one-night-stand. From that point onwards, it's a painful love story of two people trying to beat the system by loving each other and trying to break the brainwashing, memory-tampering, forced-abortion techniques of the System (in this case, the Sphinx Corp).

Throughout the movie, people speak a sort of "universal" language - somewhat a mish-mash mixture of English, French, Italian, Chinese, Japanese, and everything else. Everyone uses the same papelles to enter cities. Everyone accepts that if the Sphinx decides on anything, there must be a good reason behind it. Everyone consults the Sphinx for "permission" to fall in love with each other (by taking a "genetic" test for potential similarities). In fact, the only people who seemed to behave like people are the outcasts who long to enter into cities. Problem is, they live in the lawless, diseased, desert-like conditions outside the cities. The whole thing comes off like a nightmarish version of what our world seemed to be falling headlong into. This is a world where basic things like love, sex, reproduction, realizing one's dreams, etc. are regulated by an all-seeing System.

Finally, I like it that it doesn't try to be "preachy" with endless exposition like "The Matrix" - the viewer is simply presented directly with this "world" and you have to try your best to understand the whole thing (somewhat like Enki Bilal's "Immortel", if you see the parallels). And it has a love story in the middle of it. It's probably the only love story that ever made me weep at the end of a film.