Let's begin this review with a quote from the back of the box this piece of cinematic magic came in:
"Ivan the Russian butcher, who makes mincemeat of everyone, faces off with Jason the kid karate student in a do or die bid over syndicated crime."
Don't let the fact that the movie has almost nothing to do with the previous statement keep you from feasting on the delights contained in "No Retreat, No Surrender" a collaborations of the formidable Yuen brothers, Ng See and (?) Corey!  Yeah, if I were a parent of two boys, I'd probably name them Chow Fa and Larry.
Just to break it down for you, Jason is a "kid karate student" with a fondness for tank tops and Bruce Lee.  His father doesn't like him, and neither does anyone else.  That is, until Ivan the Russian (or Karl Breznev, depending on whether you pay attention to the actual movie or the credits...either way, it's Jean Claude Van Damme, who unbelievably outclasses the rest of the talent here) and his slickster mafia handlers from the Big Apple come to take over what was surely an irrestitable tactical prize for the Don....Sherman Oaks Karate School.  After his father gets one of his knees broken (he gets hit in one, but ends up with a cast covering his shin on the other) despite his lecturing that "Karate is NOT to be used aggressively."  I guess Ivan (or Karl) doesn't speak english, otherwise he surely would have seen the error in his ways after Jason's Dad's moving litany.  Anyway, he busts his leg, or knee, or shin, or something.  Naturally, Jason's family moves to Washington to start a new life.
Enter RJ, the blackest guy who can breakdance and dribble a basketball like a white guy.  He also wears a Jheri Curl bag on his head at night, which you'll find out right before he procures an abandoned farmhouse for Jason to live in, where Bruce Lee (played by some white guy with an asian name) rises from the dead, and teaches Jason that the key to true martial arts understanding is calisthenics, especially using machines like the ones my grandmother used when she watched "The Price is Right." I'm not making this up.
RJ is hated by a fat kid named Scott, who "has his reasons" for disliking RJ.  When RJ is aimlessly wandering in a parking lot, Scott's gang chases him, and RJ, who can "Dance a bit" and is "really quick" thinks on his feet, and to escape the gang pursuing him, jumps into the nearest small area that is completely enclosed by a fence.  Luckily, Jason shows up, and they fight the guys off.
After watching a karate tournament on TV, Jason learns from RJ that the champion has a dojo nearby!  Cool!  Then Jason fills out an application at the speed of light, gets his ... kicked, and runs away.  A bit later, he sees his girlfriend, who is the little sister of the karate champion, but somehow Jason wasn't aware of this when they "met" in Sherman Oaks the previous summer.  Sensibile enough, I suppose.  ???
The movie goes on and on, in this same general directionless direction, culminating in a "final, last-ditch battle of savage proportions."  Don't miss it!
Each time I watch this, and I've seen it in the dozens by now, I find something else new and totally illogical!  Enjoy!