This series grabbed my interest, and I could not stop watching it.  I've been too busy with college courses, work, and reading for my Degree path to enjoy much entertainment.  However, during Xmas Break, I experienced the first DVD in the "Invasion" series, and I was completely hooked.  I had to watch the entire series while I had the opportunity, then I also purchased the complete set.

This is not just a Sci-Fi, action-packed, well-made and gripping story, but this is also a perfect series for anyone who has experienced alternative family situations.  The interplay between lovers and ex-lovers, the bonding and issues experienced by the children, and other basic daily family issues play out in a believable, realistic manner throughout the series.  As someone who has experienced even more complex family combining situations, and ex-lover becomes new lover's friend type of scenarios, I thoroughly grasped the stories within the story.  I believe this series is a realistic portrayal of modern relationships (with an Alien twist).

As a long time X-Files fan, and a person who enjoys good Sci-Fi, I truly enjoyed and recommend this series.  I purchased this ASAP to add to my movie collection.  I've never seen anything quite like the "Invasion" series, but this conjured-up memories of X-Files, The Outer Limits, The Twilight Zone, and other great Sci-Fi series; yet "Invasion" is very modern and contemporary, with current social commentary.

In a post-Katrina U.S., this series has tapped into the underlying worries of Global Warming, government issues, "Conspiracy Theory" and a host of other issues.  Basically, this series has something for everyone.

I also recommend "Invasion" for people who are not interested in Sci-Fi, or the above genres, yet have experienced divorce, separation, the joining of families, and other modern (common) societal changes.  This would be an excellent series to purchase for teenagers who are experiencing parental divorce, "see it isn't that bad...it could be worse...your step-mom could be an Alien!"