When people remember old-fashioned adventure films with nostalgia, this is probably what they're thinking of. It has three charismatic stars in the shape of Cary Grant, Douglas Fairbanks Jr, and Victor McLaglen. It has humor, beautiful locations, terrific music, action from beginning to end, and the sort of clear-eyed confidence and freedom from irony that is hard to come by nowadays. George Lucas and Steven Spielberg must have been fans.

The story is set during a Thuggee uprising in India in the late 19th century. Three British army sergeants get themselves into hot water on the frontier, with the help of their native water-carrier, Din, and come into conflict with the guru of a murderous cult. Both the murderous cultist and their golden temple -- complete with a pit of cobras -- would reappear nearly five decades later to menace Indiana Jones. Southeastern California, setting of endless Westerns, stands in for India. Unusual for classic Hollywood, the romantic subplot doesn't get in the way of the fun. The cast is great all around: Grant is funny as the treasure-hungry Cockney, Fairbanks is the dashing straight man, and McLaglen plays more or less the same veteran sergeant he would play throughout John Ford's Cavalry films, but without the Irish accent; in short, they all know precisely what they're doing. Eduardo Ciannelli, as the Thuggee guru, is both scary and dignified, delivering a lecture on imperialism that puts the three Brits in their place, at least for a short while. Sam Jaffe, as Gunga Din, would probably rub modern audiences the wrong way -- he manages to get the heroes into trouble, but also gets them out of it in the end, earning Kipling's accolade, "You're a better man than I am."

For a more nuanced and modern look at the same period of British colonialism, watch "The Man Who Would be King". Also based on the work of Rudyard Kipling (a story in this case, rather than a poem), it is just as adventurous but much less forgiving of the Europeans' presence in India.