when i first saw this movie i enjoyed it, there were a few things i didn't like. but overall it was fun. the change up of the ending was even understandable as a sign of changing times.

but upon watching it again i realized that while this movie here is not terrible, they changed enough key scenes of this where the spirit of "watchmen" is just not here. by showing the fight where the comedian gets killed they more or less give away the bad guy in the opening scene and thats one of the biggest mysteries of the book. the actor playing ozzymandus wasn't so much poorly chosen as poorly directed. ozzymandus is suposed to be unasuming and tame making the final reveal beyond shocking. but the way this guy plays it he might as well be stroking a curly mustache everytime you see him. it just screams bad guy. it's wrong.

rorchact overall is well done in this movie but they changed some things about his "birth" story that while they made it more visceral and apealing for a movie, changed the tone of the scene in a bad way.

the fight scenes are a little bit crap, part of the genius of watchmen is that no one has super powers, but the fight scenes seem to suggest they have super strength or speed in some way. zack snyder is an excelent director but he's more geared towards action movie style. and watchmen is not an action plot, it's a story epic. infact alot if not all the fight scenes could've been taken out of this movie.

the change to the ending is particularly crappy. i understand the motivation to it and it's not so much a bad ending in itself. but the original ending was designed to band humanity together for survival's sake, america and russia join forces against a bigger threat. but the ending in the movie is more like a religous message. "be nice to each other kids or dr. manhatten will come down and blow you up." which is totally crap. or at the very least not on topic at all.

this movie by itself is entertaining enough, but it's not good, just fun, and for what is one of the best stories ever written, this is a poor representation.