Before I saw this fantastic animated masterpiece, my only contact with Japanese Anime' was when my nieces and nephews came for visits (they were interested in watching Ninja/Karate/Sailor Moon, etc). These cartoons, although hypnotic and mesmerizing to the kids, seemed mindless with no real message (not that there's anything wrong with that).

One evening this past January, I was flipping through the channels when I came upon TCM's Thursday night special tribute to Hayao Miyazaki. I listened to the pre-feature info-guy describing the great artistry and storytelling of this director and thought "I'll give it 2 minutes and then continue flipping".

After only ten minutes I found myself totally immersed in the experience. What a beautifully crafted, artistically amazing, and poignant study of two young Japanese students encouraging one another to follow their dreams as they surprise themselves by falling in love.

As a professional artist, I was amazed at the superb quality and artistry of the background panels, each one alone a separate masterpiece, and the 3 dimensional feel in the movement/action. This was not what I had expected.

The most striking element of this masterpiece (at the risk of being trite) was the slice of modern Japanese life/culture it imparted to me. The characters were real, while at the same time decent, moral kids. There was a certain innocence in the characters that was totally refreshing and endearing. They projected an almost spiritual reverence for their elders and total respect for their teachers. Because the Japanese culture is shown to be "user friendly", their parents had no fear for their kids traveling on bikes and rapid transit throughout Tokyo. It was quite charming to follow the various characters through their daily activities and reminded me of my own childhood before our American culture became so dangerous.

I now own many of Miyazaki's films including Porco Rosso, Kiki's Delivery Service, Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away, Castle in the Sky, and a few others. However, my personal favorite is still Whisper of the Heart. I can't wait to introduce my nieces and nephews to these fantastic and beautiful stories.