If you possibly can, try to see this film before you read much in the way of reviews or other commentary that might give away too much of the story. I was lucky enough to do this, and now after seeing a selection of opinions I feel fairly certain that I had the chance to get the best out of it.

By this I imply no criticism whatsoever of any reviews that I have since read. Favourable and unfavourable alike, they have provided me with many helpful insights. However what they make me think is that the extent to which you are likely to enjoy this film, and the rating you are liable to give it, are going to depend on your temperament much more than on your rational faculties, ordinary day-to-day standards, education or even moral values. Just let it take you by surprise if you still can. For my part, I'm not sure that it is like anything I ever saw before.

The filming and camera work seem to get plaudits from nearly everyone, so let me join in that chorus. The scenery is simply gorgeous, and the close-up filming of the actors is adroitly and perceptively handled. The effect of mystery and of uncertainty regarding what it is all going to be about is quite extraordinarily well suggested in the opening sequences. After the sinister first episode it all moves slowly for a while, and the air of menace is retained without being reinforced explicitly. That, I would say, is largely to the credit of the camera crew. They never seem to miss a chance, as for example when there is a brief appearance (never explained or followed up) of a dubious-looking stranger approaching the little boy on the beach. Effective in the extreme - it made me catch my breath, although it is a long time since my children were that age and I had to worry about that sort of thing. I might even say that one of the few criticisms I have of Jindabyne concerns this side of things, the side that nearly everyone agrees to be outstandingly good. There are a great many themes and issues (too many for some critics) in the film, and I felt on a couple of occasions that the camera angles were seeming to suggest `meaningfulness' and `significance' when in fact nothing much came of it. It could be that I was missing something, of course.

The `story', insofar as there is one, is a kind of `moral maze'. It is inviting us at every stage to sit in judgment on the characters. The startpoint is an unbelievably crass piece of disrespectful insensitivity by the four male leads. From there on it is nothing so simple as just people's reactions, (and of course their own), because we have to discover and take into account where the main actors are coming from in their lives up to that point. We are also made to endure some wince-making exhibitions of people's inability to communicate, and I for one was left wondering whether that might have been the main unifying thread of the narrative. The various subplots are woven together very well, I thought, and not badly acted either, but the general impression is rather like the impact of the music of Delius - much more atmosphere than structure. I love Delius myself, and I loved this film. However I can perfectly well understand the point of view of those who like neither, so not knowing which category you come into I can't say whether this film is likely to be your kind of thing. It is nothing if not original, and as I said already I don't recall anything really like it. One touch was completely superb, and I should be surprised if anyone at all disagrees - after wringing out our capacity for judgments and moral assessments, the film ends by abruptly reminding us that what we have been agonising over is in fact a rather minor misdemeanour in comparison with the major atrocity that nobody has seemingly been able to spare a thought for.