I watched Glitter; because I am a fan of Mariah Carey. I was dubious about watching it due to the reviews, but I had to cast my own opinion, and I found it to be an average movie, though drawn out a bit too long.
Though meant to be a drama, i found this movie at my video store in the science/fantasy section... so was confused if it should have been in the drama or comedy quarter.
I dound Mariah's acting to be lacking; and at times comical when she tries to act cool or angry. She was transparent in some scenes, but I truly found the scene at the end of the movie, where she reunites with her mother that gave her up at 12..to be genuine acting. I saw it in her eyes that she WANTED to act this scene to its all, and it worked cause it got me, especially when she broke-down. I know that feeling!. It touched me, but maybe thats from personal experience..
Also, in terms of Mariah's poor acting abilities; shamefully, Mariah as a child, produced a better performance than her adult contemporary..She had sad doeful eyes and showed angst and dispair when she had to leave her mothers care.
Fast forward to Mariah/Billie as an adult and this is where I had to laugh, with Mariah trying desperately to look like a sex-bomb dancer in a club; she looked cheap, tarty and poor. Maybe it was for the 80's but still, she looked like crap. I liked Da Brat, looking happily heavy and funky, her friend..no comment. I did like it though when the showed up the tone deaf singer, Sylk..I liked that bit..and Ace djcute to look at but one of the worst tryhards I had ever seen on film.
Another scene i have to give credit to Mariahs limited acting range, would be when and she HAS to go on with the show and perform to thousands of fans at Madison Square gardens, with the pain of knowing, just minutes before she graces the stage, her love (dj jULIAN/aCE)has been killed. She demonstrated some acting talent, but her vocal range is still showcased in this filn, though her acting range isnt. It doesn't help that the release date for cinemas was Sept 11; as who would've been going to the pictures during that dark week?? Plus, Mariah had to much to prove, and the timing both globally and for her own personal self, was wrong. If it had been released before or sometime after, I am certain it wouldn't have had such HARSH HARSH reviews as was delivered.
I concur with many other reviewers, her (Mariah) Britney , Madonna and Dianna Ross should closely peruse and screen their next cinematic choices or at least take up serious coaching for the craft of acting.
SOuntrack: Ehhh... so so.. only like 2 songs on it (All my life and Twisted)