This film has it all.  Grand theme.  Great acting (though sometimes overly done).  Terrific scenes.  Superior special effects which still hold up some 50 years after original release.  Wonderful love stories.  And, of course, an indelible encounter with God, which proves to be the rise of Moses and the undoing of the Egyptians, particularly the Pharaoh, who is identified by the film as Rameses the second.  There is also a grand musical score which carries the film very well.  And, there were obviously hundreds of hired personnel to give the film a grand authenticity.  There are also hard hearted villains who seek their own self gratifications at the expense of the "heroes."

I am like many who've reviewed this film.  I watched this one many times as a youngster and it greatly affected my view of the Bible.  Only later did I take a more objective understanding of the contents of the Old Testament.  It is also obvious that this story is viewed through the eyes of Christians instead of Jews.  For one thing, all the stars of the show are caucasian.  Nevertheless, there was some effort in this film of 1956 to demonstrate an equality between whites and blacks at a time when that wasn't cool to do.  Remember Nefertiri's jealousy, "And such a beautiful enemy..."

There are a few grand highlights.  There is the confrontation and competition between Moses and Rameses II for the will of their father.  There is the great curse of death as the 10th plague on Egypt comes straight from Pharaoh's own mouth.  There is, of course, the greatest highlight, the parting of the Red Sea.  There is also Moses' encounter with the burning bush.

This is one of the great mythological films ever made.  Whether or not you believe in the contents of the Bible is your decision, but there's no question that this film produced a great view of some the contents of Exodus therein.

The producers of "The Ten Commandments" went all out in the making of it, right down to the glorious costumization.  This may be the most watched movie in the history of America and it will be a grand phenomenon well into the 21st century.  Is it not the greatest movie achievement in American film history?