I gotta say that this movie really ROCKS!!! I spent a whole just finshed watching the whole dvd today and it's more than cool man, it's a treasure to have.

Obviously, I have no regrets buying the dvd. The songs are great, the visual experience was wonderful condsidered that it's been 12 years since Disney have taken everything from it's dusty archives. The extras are wonderful, especially the virtual DVD tour, etc. Adults and kids will love 'em.

However to me, there are a few minor drawbacks about the dvd. One of them was that they had Nick Lachey & Jessica Simpson singing "A Whole New World". Now, I don't mean to be pesky about those two.

But I was conscerened at first for buying the DVD because I wasn't sure whether they might butchered a favorite song of mind / in this case everybody's most favourite song of all time.

And lets face it everytime you see the words: "Nick and Jessica" on MTV channel, you'd literally say "Oh God" and switch the channel without a doubt. Fortunately they did a pretty decent job on it. But Clay Aiken's great in singing "Proud Of your Boy", a deleted song that was meant to be very impportant in telling the story. Personally, I think it's better you buy the DVD to see it yourself. But Clay Aiken sure knows how to sing............

Another minor drawback was that there was nice interview session with all the cast and crew of the film. However, I was kinda dissapointed because Robin Williams (the Genie) wasn't included. I'd say if we can hear what he's gonna say about his character which is a really popular icon in animation, then the whole DVD would be DAMN NEAR PERFECT!!!!!

It's a no brainer that the movie is more than special. It's extrodinary. Tell you this, in my 19 YEARS OF LIFE. This is THE FIRST TIME I ever watch Aladdin. Before I only know him and everybody by TV and books. But watching the original movie that started everything was the BEST EVER. Heck it's even recommended if you got deppression. Trust me, you gotta experience to believe it.

So, if you're still left out like me, go get it now. Let it shine together with all the other newly released / upcoming digitally restored Disney DVDs. You'd do yourself a BIG favor.