This is the movie Jane Fonda would just as soon have you forget she ever made. And it's a shame she regrets it, because "Barbarella" has become a cult classic. I'm sure she doesn't regret the residuals, if she's still getting them! This is a must-see, because whether she likes it or not, it's a classic.

The movie is based on a French comic book character who conquers the universe with her feminine wiles. Along the way, she meets some interesting characters. There's Mark Hand, who looks after the ice and forests of Weir, and who rounds up the children who live there once they reach a servicable age. After he repairs her ship, she rewards him in a very special way. There's also Pygar, the blind angel, played by John Philip Law; The Great Tyrant, portrayed by Anita Pallenberg (Mick Jagger's girlfriend at the time), and Dildano, the leader of the revolution, played by David Hemmings. All of these characters make for a very enjoyable film that endured the test of time. And, I must say, Jane Fonda looks amazing. The acting is cheezy, as should be for a movie of this type; the special effects are equally tacky (lava lamp effects...not what you find in space), but it all works.

The blu-ray transfer is very good. The colors are more vibrant and the high definition transfer makes details, missed in the standard DVD, stand out. I had to give this only 4 stars because they could have done something to improve the sound, which is highly compressed mono. Today's home theater systems are capable of much more, so uncompressing the sound would have been welcome. I can live with the mono sound, although Bob Crewe's music could have benefitted in stereo or 5.1 surround sound would have been nice.

Finally, to Jane Fonda: Please don't sell this movie short. You shouldn't regret making it, because it showed your range as an actress. Being able to pull off a cheezy performance such as this, when we all know how great an actress you really are, and were at the time, shows your abilities well. You never looked lovelier, and still do today. I'm a fan of your work, and I thank you.