"How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" is a truly delightful little movie.  It's packed full of laughs and fun and boasts a great cast that gives it the edge over the slew of romantic comedies recently released.
  Ben (Matthew McConaughey) makes a bet with his boss that he can get a woman to fall in love with him in ten days to land a valuable advertising campaign (don't ask questions, you'll understand when you see the movie).  Andie Anderson (Kate Hudson) is the "How To..." columnist as the hot new women's magazine, Composure.  The topic of Andie's next column?  How To Lose a Guy in 10 Days, hence the name of the film.  If Andie writes the article, her boss, Lana, will give her complete freedom on the topics she writes about Apparently Andie wants to write about "serious" issues.  That's great, hon, but why are you working at a glossy fashion mag if you want to write articles on global issues?  
  Of course, Ben and Andie see each other at a bar and coincidentally choose each other as their "victims".  And then you know what happens...
  Kate Hudson is an absolute gem!  She is sweet, funny, and completely adorable.  The audience genuinely likes Kate Hudson, and thus sympathizes with Andie.  A big problem with most romantic comedies is that the characters are so dislikable that you don't really care what happens to them.  Kate Hudson was able to prevent that.  
  McConaughey was fine, but I firmly believe that he doesn't really act in films, just plays himself (he plays the same kind of guy in almost all his movies).
  Ever noticed how most romantic comedies are really quite funny until they reach that inevitable stage when the two stop hating each other (or whatever was holding them from love) and fall in love?  Take McConaughey's "The Wedding Planner" (another film in which McConaughey plays himself), which I thoroughly enjoyed until they fell in love.  "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" blessedly does not fall under this category.  The film is consistently funny through and through and never gets boring.