This movie watches like 1970's progressive, feminist agitprop, 30 years late. The movie definitely has it's moments, but any way you want to slice and dice it, it is ultimately over an hour of a guy sitting in a chair, watching a video on TV of his wife complaining. Yes, the plot is compelling and there's some interesting twists in there, but I found the stationary nature of it bothersome, and caught myself skipping ahead several times.

There are some inconsistencies with her grievances that lead me to believe this is less a tale of a neglected, under appreciated wife, than of someone who was a bit off her trolley. Infidelity on his part is hinted at, but never confirmed. At first she complains about her body "not being what it used to" and accusing him of "getting some on the side", then later complaining about his horniness and that he only married her for her body, apparently unaware of the obvious contradiction. Assuming anything she accuses him of on the sexual side at home is true (I will assume it will with the boob grab early on in the movie), that's obviously a little creepy, but the sort of things I think any sane woman would have brought up when the events actually happened. The picture painted for me of Steve is that he takes his home life for granted, perhaps a bit of a pervert with his wife, but in the end he loves his family, and all-in-all isn't a particularly bad guy.

I realize it's "a movie", but as this movie takes place in the the realm of the plausible, and even possible, it's hard not to juxtapose this against real life implications. Her grievances obviously come out of left field, indicated by his look of surprise at all of this, leading the viewer to believe she's never brought the matter up. 14 years of marriage (at least, one of the children is 14), she's never brought it up, and when she finally does, this is how she does it? If there was ever a, "passive-aggressive complex of the year award" she would definitely take it for this little stunt.

Ultimately a not a terrible movie, but would have fared better as a lengthier "short". There is kind of a clever twist with the "video" angle in the last 10 minutes.