For thousands of years the Holy Lands of the Middle East have run with blood.  Here the scars of battle fought between three of the world's great religions are etched into the earth.  But, the deepest wound was made by a war between Christian and Muslim began at the close of the eleventh century and fought for 200 years.

Now this Holy War has passed into legend, but there were those who saw it with their own eyes; great chroniclers from two different worlds, Christian and Muslim, who wrote of great deeds, great battles, great warriors and men who would lay down their lives for their God.

This was the collision of two great faiths, the clash between the Crescent and the Cross. This was the Crusades.

"The Crusades: Crescent & The Cross" is a 2-DVD set.  The first disc discusses the First Crusade, beginning with the call of Pope Urban II.  The second half of the first disc discusses the Second and Third Crusades.  As is expected with productions made by the History Channel the story is focused on providing accurate history, yet told in an entertaining manner.

The first disc of the set has a running time of about 180 minutes.

The second disc in "The Crusades: Crescent & The Cross" consists of "History in the Making: The Crusades" which shows how the History Channel went about making the first disc of the set.  It shows how the reenactments were stages, and the locations and computer animations used in the production.

Also on the second disc of the set is "The Knights Templar" providing a brief look at the origins and mysteries of the Crusade's mightiest warriors.

When considering the Knights Templar it has long been established that Templars led diplomatic missions to the courts of Arab princes and learned the Arabic language.  They may have also had dealings with a fanatical drug taking sect known as Hashashiyyin, whose name passed into English as assassins.  The Templars certainly had extensive connections with Islamic and Judaic cultures, and may have absorbed a great deal of their cultures.

It is rumored that the Templar's Muslim and Jewish friends were teaching them the ancient wisdom of the East; secret arts such as alchemy, astrology, and numerology, and some believe they delved even deeper into forbidden rites and knowledge.

What this forbidden knowledge is and how it was used by the Templars is introduced in the second disc of The Crusades Crescent and The Cross.

The second disc in the set runs for about 70 minutes.

Entertaining, Educational, and Highly Recommended.