A consistent ratings winner during it's five-season run on NBC, I DREAM OF JEANNIE was written by Sidney Sheldon to be the network's response to the ABC sitcom "Bewitched", which also centered on fantasy themes and a leading lady with magical powers (and which was the ABC network's main ratings winner of the time).  Right down to the animated theme song, I DREAM OF JEANNIE aped "Bewitched", which irritated critics of the day, but the audiences loved it.

On the shore of a deserted island somewhere in the middle of the South Pacific, astronaut Major Tony Nelson (Larry Hagman) is washed ashore after his spaceship launch is aborted.  He finds a funny-looking bottle, and after uncorking the lid, discovers that it houses a beautiful girl swathed in Arabian costume.  She is a genie, called, oddly-enough Jeannie (Barbara Eden).  Tony's life is turned upside-down by this gorgeous girl, who proceeds to make his life as magical as possible.

Barbara Eden's performance in the title role was truly the key to the shows' success.  Her unique combination of girl-next-door naivete, and confiident female sexuality, gave the character of Jeannie all that was needed to capture the affections of viewers of both sexes.  Larry Hagman's impeccable abilities playing 'straight man' to Eden's comedic hurricane adds a lot to the chemistry between the two characters.

I DREAM OF JEANNIE kept on top of the ratings until writers committed the cardinal sin of TV sitcoms, and decided to have Tony and Jeannie get married in Season Four.  The sexual tension between the pair had been the main underpinning for the shows' success, and following the wedding there was nowhere else to take the characters.  The show was cancelled after Season Five.

The first season of I DREAM OF JEANNIE was filmed in black-and-white.  Later syndicated re-runs had those episodes colourised, and the DVD set for the first season is available in dual-editions of b&w and colourised.  Extras include a new retrospective featurette; plus audio commentary on the first episode with Barbara Eden and Larry Hagman.

COMPLETE EPISODE LISTING:

"The Lady in the Bottle" - Stranded Major Tony Nelson unwittingly frees Jeannie from her 2,000-year-old confinement.

"My Hero?" - Jeannie whisks Tony back to Ancient Persia, in order to avenge her honour against Ali, the Giant-Killer.

"Guess What Happened on the Way to the Moon?" - When Tony has to undergo a mission in the desert, Jeannie equips him with every possible luxury, much to the annoyance of Roger Healey.

"Jeannie and the Marriage Caper" - Tony's beautiful fiancee Melissa decides to step up their wedding date.  What will Jeannie do now?

"G.I. Jeannie" - In hopes of working closer with Tony, Jeannie takes a job at the Airforce.

"The Yacht Murder Case" - When Jeannie is suddenly called away from a society yacht cruise, the other passengers think she has been murdered...

"Anybody Here Seen Jeannie?" - Jeannie senses danger when Tony's space mission looms closer.

"The Americanisation of Jeannie" - Jeannie decides to become the perfect little housewife, but her attempts prove disastrous.

"The Moving Finger" - Jeannie's wish to become a movie star is thwarted by the fact that genie's cannot appear on film.

"Djinn and Water" - Jeannie enlists the help of an ancestor to help Tony in an experiment.

"Whatever Became of Baby Custer?" - Tony's tiny fan Custer witnesses Jeannie's magic and decides to tell Doctor Bellows.

"Where'd You Go-Go?" - Jeannie gets a case of the green-eyed monster when Tony's former girlfriend Diane asks for a second chance.

"Russian Roulette" - Roger unknowingly gives away Jeannie's bottle to a visiting Russian cosmonaut.

"What House Across the Street?" - Jeannie decides to get Tony jealous by agreeing to marry Roger.

"Too Many Tonys" - When Tony refuses Jeannie's marriage plans, she conjures up a new romantic version of Tony.

"Get Me to Mecca on Time" - Jeannie starts to lose her powers, and unless Tony can get her to Mecca, she'll fade away forever...

"The Richest Astronaut in the Whole Wide World" - Roger becomes Jeannie's new master.

"Is There an Extra Jeannie In the House?" - Roger starts taking serious advantage of Jeannie's magical capabilities.

"Never Try to Outsmart a Jeannie"  Tony agrees for Jeannie to join him in Rome, but only if she can get a passport without using her powers.

"My Master, the Doctor" - Jeannie turns Tony into a doctor, but he's soon sued for malpractice.

"Jeannie and the Kidnap Caper" - Tony begs Jeannie to stop asking for his help...just as Jeannie is kidnapped by killer spies.

"How Lucky Can You Get?" - While in Reno, Roger asks Jeannie to help his winning streak in the casino.

"Watch the Birdie" - With Jeannie's help, Tony becomes a golf champion.

"The Permanent House Guest" - In order to prove his theories about Tony, Doctor Bellows decides to become his roommate.

"Bigger Than a Breadbox and Better Than a Genie" - Tony decides to expose Roger's new clairvoyant girlfriend as a fake.

"My Master, the Great Rembrandt" - Jeannie turns a Rembrandt copy into the genuine article, causing more grief for Tony and NASA.

"My Master, the Thief" - While visiting a museum, Jeannie spies a pair of slippers that were stolen from her...2,000 years ago.

"This is Murder" - When Tony is asked to accompany a visiting princess, Jeannie realises that their respective families are mortal enemies, and by oath she is required to kill her!

"My Master, the Magician" - When Doctor Bellows sees Tony levitating in a chair, Tony explains that he's an amateur magician.

"I'll Never Forget What's-Her-Name" - When Tony is struck by amnesia, he falls in love with the first woman he sees...Jeannie.  Will the wedding bells chime?