Don't be fooled by the name Alexander Payne (Election, About Schmidt, Sideways) being attached to this movie, as most of what you will see is not the movie he had in mind when he wrote the initial draft of the screenplay. According to Payne, Sandler took many liberties with his screenplay and "Sandlerized" the movie. Payne eventually didn't even want his name attached to this project. I can't say I blame him at all. Payne would never be responsible for this drivel. How unfortunate that what was probably a really good script with the potential to be a really good movie with a good message ended up as this. The movie is the equivalent of a backstabber, or maybe someone with a multiple personality disorder. One minute it's being disgustingly crass and offensive to the gay community, and the next it's unconvincingly preaching that homophobia is bad. Who knows where the movie actually stands on the issue. It tries to make you think it's pro-gay but I'm not sure I buy it. It's almost as if the creators of the movie have never met a gay person. There is not a single gay character in this movie that really rings true. They're over-the-top caricatures; either overly feminine or slightly creepy, or both. There's not a single character in this movie that acts like your average joe who just happens to be gay.

I've never had a problem with Adam Sandler. But after this I find it really hard to have any respect for him. Every idiotic joke made me like him less. And it's not just jabs at gay people. There's an offensive scene in the beginning where they rescue a severely overweight guy from a burning building that has to be seen to be believed. It's just really uncalled for and in extremely poor taste. Nothing about this is funny. The only people who will find it to be so are ones with an utterly juvenile sense of humor. There's also Rob Schneider's offensive portrayal of Asians. Honestly, this is one of the most mean-spirited mainstream comedies of the year and the more I think about it, the more I dislike it. There were a few laughs to be had, but mostly it just made me mad by its annoying insensitivity.

While this was in theaters I was talking to someone who said they'd went to see this, and they said that it gives you something to think about. I found this kind of funny, especially now after seeing it. How could anyone take anything away from this movie? I had thought maybe in its own way it would do some good by opening the minds of Sandler fans with its dumbed down message about tolerance, but that was before seeing it. Now I can't imagine it doing much to further acceptance. It's not the worst thing for the gay community, but it's just too two-faced to be something positive. Thank you Adam Sandler for turning the serious issue of gay rights into a movie filled with fart and boobie jokes. Not to mention the several uses of the "F" word used throughout. And of course, for some odd reason, Chuck and Larry are treated as heroes for pretending to be gay in order to scam the system, making a mockery out of homosexuals in the process. And their support comes from the gay community no less. How unrealistic is that? I can't imagine homosexuals would be so supportive if something like this really happened. I guess it's just trying to fool itself into believing that, as a movie, it's doing us a favor and is a friend to the gay community. Well, some friend. It's certainly one we can do without.

Grade: 5/10 (C-)