The only reason I will go into detail about how I feel about rambo 2, is because i work at a retail store that sells dvd's and I dont feel people remeber rambo very accurately. Heres the breakdown.
First Blood - now this is not the prequal to rambo II and III you would expect had you seen 2 and 3 first (which they were not released in any kind of reverse order) I believe it is based on a novel (i know the uncertainty paints me as an amature on the subject but im not)its a deep moving story of a war man caught up in a bad situation, kinda of a flashback picture. Ok this movie is good, personally i dont like it enough to own.  This movie instilled in people(the more manely audience) the question, why arent we watching a war shoot-em-up movie. We have this character that we hear is a fighting machine, he was awesome in the vietam war, but we dont get to see it. So whats the answer make a bad war movie sequal. But what they forgot to do was make it bad, it turned out great!
Rambo: First Blood Part II
  Notice the name change, new movie, a novel movie sequal, always a bad idea, doomed to fail, but somehow a great emotinal script was written, very well directed, alot of people love the vietnam war angle the whole, do we get to when this time thing, but i was only 3 when it was made, and i knew nothing of the war, and i still no nothing, I just love the action.  What makes a sequal bad: simple really once you know you see it everywhere, i suppose you have to start with what makes the first one good: well you have the whole buildup of what the characters can do, how the plot may twist, and all the little things you learn along the way, the exposition if you will, now in the sequal you always know everything already, there is no plot buildup, though you may wish for more action during the original(whatever movie) you get too much in the sequal often and thats the problem, this movie starts from the begging, it doesnt just throw him in the jungle killing people
Rambo III
  I thought it was really bad, i admit i havent watched it much but its like rambo cares about other nations and he is not all red white and blue. Its just a sequal to a good action movie, notice the full title change, no more first blood, just rambo, its lacks good plot buildup, acting a record low, people that recklessly buy a rambo movie, i believe ment to buy the 2nd one, and just didnt know the facts. Basically rambo is at home in the jungle so in the movie where he has that chance in the best one