Who hasn't heard of Vacation? The funny, humerous, slapstick comedy that proves that you just can't have the perfect family road trip without running into problems. This movie focuses on the Griswolds, led by Clark, a father of two and a husband to a beautiful but nagging wife, Ellen. Summer fever has just hit, and the family is ready to go on a marathon trip all across America to Wally World...a funpark in California. Clark has the whole trip planned out--he ordered a new car, made a map of the EXACT routes they were to take, and even timed events for watching scenery. The first problem occurs when Clark orders the new car, but the car wasn't ordered, so he's forced to take another car (after his current car gets destroyed for parts right after he drops it off), named the "Super Sportswagon, the family roadster" instead of the metallic blue sporster vehicle that he ordered. "I'm no fool," he says....HA! Wait until he gets going on the trip! 
Vacation, in a nutshell, is a hilarious disaster waiting to happen. 
One thing that disappointed me though, was the DVD version of this film. The DVD has almost NO options...a language selection, a chapter selection, and a theatrical trailer were the only options that I could find on this DVD. Also, may I say that the Audio and the visual aspects of this DVD are not up to par; the audio only puts out sound through the center speakers, and the DVD only has a Full-Screen version...no widescreen like most of us would want. Warner Bros. has let alot of their good fans down by releasing poor-produced DVDs. It's almost like they just took the original film, slapped it onto a disc, created a menu that took 5 minutes to make, put it in their annoying 'snap case' (which most of us hate...it looks cheap), labeled the front and back cover, patened the DVD and case with the "Warner Bros." symbol, and then threw it on the shelves to be sold to consumers. If you're looking for a spectacular version of this film, you're not going to find it here. Hopefully in a few years they'll release a 20th Anniversary Edition like they did with Caddyshack that actually has an interactive menu and widescreen format.