With movies like Shrek and Shark's Tale, Hollywood's goal with animated movies lately seems to be how far filmmakers can push the envelope in terms of weaving adult humor and sexuality into "family" films.  As a result, I was becoming rather cynical.  Yeah, the production values and music and acting in many of these movies is outstanding, but why did the goal have to be "how much can we get away with while maintaining a PG rating?"

I'm pleased to report that (as another reviewer likewise mentioned) this film restored my faith in family animated films.

Everything about this film was well done.  The plot, the music, the art direction, the animation, the casting of Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, and Samuel L. Jackson, and of course the acting.

The PLOT:
The Incredibles is about a family of superheroes.  Public pressure and a lawsuit have caused the government to suspend all superhero activities because the liabilities are too high.  As such, the few remaining superheroes have been put into a sort of FBI "witness protection program" where they have to assume normal identities.  Trouble is, Mr. Incredible (played by Craig T. Nelson) is incredibly bored with his menial job as an insurance agent and his kids are having trouble keeping their super-abilities concealed.  Nobody in the family seems truly happy and Mr. Incredible trudges off to work each day in a funk.  His perky wife (played by Holly Hunter) tries to keep everything together, but the strain is obviously wearing on everyone.  When Mr. Incredible is approached with a secret assignment to use his superpowers again, he jumps at the chance.  However, he soon finds out that he's been tricked and is being held hostage by an evil genius and wannabe superhero named Syndrome.  When Mrs. Incredible learns of the plot, it's up to her and the kids to use their own superpowers to rescue Mr. Incredible and together save the world from Syndrome and his latest creation.

The GOOD:
1) The plot is genuinely fun and wholesome as a fragmented family learns to love and appreciate one another again while working as a team.

2) The artwork is absolutely fabulous - it has a 60s James Bond feel to it that I loved.  As a child of the 60s, I love this retro look.

3) Music was likewise fabulous and had that 60s James Bond / Peter Gunn feel to it.  It perfectly complemented the visual aspect of the movie.  I have a decent home theater system and the movie sounds superb - both music and sound effects.

4) The language was wholesome throughout - no sexual innuendoes or double entendres as seem to be so "fashionable" in other animated films these days.  There was plenty of visual and verbal humor here - outstanding writing.

5) The animation iself was absolutely superb.  CG just keeps getting better and better, but they don't use it to carry the film here.  The music, acting, script, and production values all contribute to a first-class movie

6) Parents and kids alike will enjoy this because the plot deals with adult issues, like marriage problems, without being unsuitable for even small children and the language and nuances, as noted in #4 above, never crosses the line into PG-13 territory.

7) The casting was superb.  The voices matched the characters perfectly.  I particularly liked the disaffected teen voice of Violet and the guy who did Syndrome.  Both are unknowns but were perfect for the parts.  Nelson, Hunter, and Jackson are perfect as well.  And as I note below (see TRIVIA), the person who voiced "E" was not only a surprise, they were absolutely perfect for the part as well.

The BAD:
Can you spell "none?"

The UGLY:
Again, none.

The TRIVIA:
You'll notice how Mr. Incredible, Dash, Jack-Jack, and Syndrome all look similar to one another.  That's because they are all visually patterned after the director, Brad Bird.  Bird is also the voice of "E" - the fashion designer in the movie, clearly patterned after Edith Head.  He perfectly nails the snobbish, cultured elite fashionista thing.  When I realized it was a male doing her voice when the credits rolled at the end, I was amazed.  When I realized it was the director's voice, I was even more amazed.  Bird is apparently a bit of a control freak, but whatever he did, it resulted in a fabulous film and put Pixar back on the map again as a force to be reckoned with.

The BOTTOM LINE:
Pixar has shown that they are the masters of this genre with such home runs as Toy Story and Toy Story 2.  In my opinion, The Incredibles is even better and is their best effort to date.  The extra features on the DVD are enjoyable as well, and I never tire of watching how the animators do their thing.  There is also a hysterical little short called "Jack-Jack Attack" that shows what happens with the Incredible's infant son Jack-Jack when they leave him with a babysitter and he displays his budding superpowers.

I can't imagine anyone honestly not enjoying this film.  It has to be one of the best family films ever produced - animated or otherwise.  I'm glad we own it.  I enjoy watching it every 6 months or so.  If you've never seen the movie, watch it.  If you are like 99.999% of the population, you'll love it too.