The story is simple, it's about the pornography business in the late 70's. A rather confused teenager Eddie Adams (Mark Wahlberg) leads a fragile life with his parents. He is popular around girls, because he has a large "gift"  inside his trousers. One day he is discovered by a porn director Jack  Horner (Burt Reynolds). He sees what Eddie has to offer and is impressed  immediately. One night after a hard work at a nightclub, Eddie has a fight  with his mother and runs away from his home. He decides to team up with  Jack and he sees Jack as his new father. At his first porno shoot, Eddie  says to Jack that he wants him to call him by his new name, Dirk Diggler.  Dirk gets famous immediately thanks to his gift. Success comes and he  grants it, he buys him a own house, a fast car and people wants to be his  friend. As anybody know, success can have its downside, and cocaine is its  name. Eddie becomes a egoistic superstar who starts to avoid his new  family. And after a row with Jack, very similar to the first fight, he gets  fired and leaves.
That's the story of Boogie Nights, a very deep movie  that deals with pornography and family values. I find it sometimes  disturbing to look at, because of its abuse. We see people abuse drugs,  people who abuse their friendships and people who abuse theirselves. The  language is foul because of its matter, which is fair enough. But what I  learned is that we all need love from each other. And with egoism and  paranoia, we can seriously damage that. It's about having a second chance.  And granting one too.
The best way to see Boogie Nights is on DVD. It has  a full-length commentary by its director, Paul Thomas Anderson. He sure has  a foul language but the commentary is informative and funny. There's a  music video by Michael Penn directed by the same director. And nine  wonderful deleted scenes with or without director commentary.
Don't miss  the re-release of Boogie Nights, it's a double-disc DVD with a new  transfer, more deleted scenes and a new commentary by its cast.