Hey, this is a great movie, and I really do love it.
I love all the Barbie movies dearly, but lately I'm noticing changes.
1. Barbie's face
  her face is so different! It's morphing into a more plastic-y form. The nose is tiny, and her eyes aren't as deep and beautiful a blue.
2. The movies are becoming so different. No romance! Call me crazy but I personally love true-love romance (like in Swan Lake, where the two lovers loved each other more than themselves and would die to save the other. Mmm... :) so sweet.)
3. The dogs, Lily and Sparkles, aren't like real puppies at all. They practically talk to their humans and walk on two feet! I prefer the cats on the Princess and the Pauper. Much more realistic, and cuter, too!

Other than that, this is a very enjoyable movie. The princes, I must admit are wierd and make you uncomfortable at times, but they are funny in their sarcastic, carefree manner and faked arrogance. And they are far more handsome than some of the other princes. (i.e. Louis, from the 3musketeers, who is the worst-looking prince I've ever seen in a barbie movie.) I didn't really care for the way Liana and Alexa's dresses magically changed at the gateway. There's always a change from Barbie's old, plain dress to the signature, fancy, movie-cover dress, and they were just trying to get that change in there, and a little magic is good for little girls. And it turned out looking kinda cheesy. But the other parts are much more mature and interesting for older girls. It's aimed more towards preteens and early teens. Adults might enjoy, too. I love this movie and I'm glad to see some more mature issues without being too mature and keeping the magical little-girl sense. But one more thing, something other reviews have said was that the girls were lesbian. WHAT? Come on people, when you were little, wasn't it your dream for your very best friend to live in the same house as you? I used to imagine we were sisters, so I could be with her every day. Don't make something like that up and smear mud on a kid's movie. If this were an adult movie, sure, it'd be concerning, but it's not! It's a movie for little girls who know nothing about that and I hate to see parents going, "oh, they must be lesbian" and thus having to explain to their kids why they tossed the movie out. If you've read a review saying that the girls are lesbian, ignore them because they aren't!!!