The Goonies DVD surpassed my expectations. Ranging from its easy-to-navigate 3-D menus to its extra features, this is certainly one of the most well-realized DVD's yet. The bonus features themselves make up for the long delay in its release. The commentary was undoubtedly the best part of the DVD: 17 years down the line, all seven main characters ("Mikey", Sean Austin; "Brad", Josh Brolin; "Chunk", Jeff Cohen; "Mouth", Cory Feldman; "Andi", Kerri Green; "Data", Ke Huy-Quan; "Stef", Martha Plimpton; and the director &amp; producer of the film, Richard Donner) gather together and all sit viewing the film in a recording studio, reminiscing about their experience along the way. Most of the cast have changed beyond all recognition, as is evident by the brief "hidden video treasures" which are periodically shown throughout the film in its commentary-enabled mode. All four of the deleted scenes which were shown on the Disney Channel airing, but left out in the final cut, are included as "outtakes", and high-quality ones at that. It would have been great if, as an extra option, they could be incorporated in the film, but perhaps that's asking a little too much. Both parts of Cyndi Lauper's video, directed by none other that Richard Donner, are included. Along with a trailer which conveys absolutely none of the film's sense of adventure and charm. And last but not least, a 7-minute behind-the-scenes "Making of" which is quite interesting. Speaking as a layman, I found the sound &amp; picture quality of the film absolutely extraordinary, given the time period when this film was made. There are very few negative aspects to this DVD; those there are range from the (minor) fact Warner Bros. opted for a cardboard snap case instead of the more traditional full-sleeve plastic case, to the more significant event of Sean Austin's mysterious "walk-out" in the middle of the commentary feature, to the (even more significant) fact that there weren't any bona fide "outtakes", nor other unearthed scenes, beyond what was included on the uncut Disney Channel's airing. When all's said and done, nothing beyond a 2-Disc Criterion Edition, is good enough for this film.