This is my all time favorite movie.I fell in love with it when I was a kid in the 1970's and the local independent TV station(before cable was the norm) would split it into two nights on the 8 O'Clock movie.

Like many, I hope that a miricle happens and that the missing 10 to 15 minutes of film that is known to have been in the original Roadshow release in 1963 will be found and the film properly restored to it's original context.

I have read all of the revues here, and I must comment on the so-called "missing "scenes from the most recent(2003) DVD version.

What happened is that the extended version on laser disc and and the two tape VHS version that has the longer running time(which I have) are really a bit bogus in their own right.

The scenes spliced back in(and they are noticable in the VHS version, which is the same one TCM runs) were in fact, NOT in the original 1963 Roadshow Version of 192 minutes.They were outtakes never used by Stanley Kramer in the original version,but were put in the film so that MGM could market the laser disc/VHS version as "Restored",which in fact it was not.

This has been documented by dedicated film researchers who want very much to put the movie back in it's original version.

Supposedly, noted film restoration expert Robert Harris has all but 4 minutes of all the original, but it's doubtful some 43 years later that all of it will ever be found, but we can always hope.

There is some audio (but no footage) of the scene which sets up the entire get away plan that Lt.Culpepper(Tracy)sets up with Jimmy(Keaton), including a split sceen phone call between the two taking place while Tracy eats the ice cream sundie he says he wants.

Other missing scenes from the original Roadshow 192 minute version is of Jonathan Winters dragging the Finche's Chrylser Imperial back and forth with the box van trying to unhook the bumpers.Even in the long VHS version, if you look when Hawthone pickes up The Finches, you can see in the background the Imperial is damaged a lot more than what we saw in the wreck that started it.

It has long been rumored but never 100 percent confirmed that Kramer's director's cut of the film was just short of FIVE hours!

Think about all THAT footage that is lost to history.

I just got the latest DVD release(with no extras) and enjoyed it immensely just for the better sound and picture quality,the so called "missing scenes" being absent didn't bother me the least.I can always play my VHS tapes to see them placed in the movie with the story if I want to, or tape it on one tape the next time TCM plays it.

I have ordered the older DVD just so I can see the hour long documentary that was included on that about the making of the movie.

At any rate, the older I get the more I enjoy this film and never tire of watching it,it has a grip on me that I am glad to have to endure.