***CONTAINS SPOILERS***

Why is this movie so shocking?  Why are there so many people outraged over the wrongful conviction of an innocent man?  Could it be because he's not black?  The Thin Blue Line is a movie about the murder of a Dallas police officer in 1977, and the wrongful conviction of a white man (a drifter and outsider to Dallas) by white police officers, a white DA, and a white jury, who sentence the drifter to death for the killing.  The basic message is that the Texas criminal justice system is hell, even if you're white.

I was born in Houston, TX about a year after the events in the movie took place.  I moved to Southern California when I was 7.  I'm so glad I did, because I might have turned out an absolute braindead hick like most everyone interviewed in this movie.

It's supremely frustrating to watch because you listen to these people and they're so sure of themselves, while they're talking complete bull****.  The arresting officers are so blind to the facts, it's amazing... and the witnesses are complete wastes of humanity (when you watch the movie, you'll understand).  The Vidor detective who befriends David Harris (the actual killer) shows no regret at all for his failure in getting David off the streets, a failure which ultimately leads to the death of David's last robbery victim.  And the judge is absolutely delusional about his own incompetence/blindness/partiality.  He sits there and claims to be impartial and carrying out justice, while basically presiding over a show trial in which he actively participates in convicting an innocent man and sentencing him to death.  What's scarier is the fact that the Texas Appellate court, the highest court in Texas, sides 9-0 with the state, basically saying there is nothing wrong with how the trial judge acted.  The Supreme Court of the United States, the highest court in the frikkin country, comes down 8-1 in favor of the appellant and reverses the case, and the bastard judge has the audacity to say "well, if you add up the votes, nine TX appellate judges and one Supreme Court justice for me vs. eight Supreme Court justices agin', I got 10 to 8 in favor of me, so I was right".  What a bastard.

In an episode of Errol Morris' show 'First Person', he interviews a defense attorney who says something along the lines of "it's good if your client is innocent, it's better if you can prove it, but it's best if you know the judge."  It's a sad truth about our criminal justice system, and watching The Thin Blue Line makes one think about how fair our system really is... or maybe Texas just sucks.

And I'm sure this type of "miscarriage of justice" is suffered everyday by black defendants, but who's making movies about that, thems just the way things is ain't it?