This hidden little GEM originally aired on the Cartoon Network at the wee hours after midnight. I don't think there is any graphic content (Blood and gore) in the show that required its airtime to be after midnight, but this is the US after all and most Japanese anime shows get censored one way or another if its airing on primetime TV. Needless to say, this show ended up getting canceled way too early and that shouldn't have been the case.

I was immediately hooked on the show from the very first episode that I saw. I didn't watch this from episode number one, but was intrigued nonetheless by the plot and murder mystery involved. However, I could never remember the exact show time and at that point in my life, I was too busy with work to have any free time to watch shows that I really liked. Case Closed is probably one of the greatest anime series to grace TV in my opinion. It ranks up there with Sailor Moon and Dragon Ball Z, but it's also in a class all its own since the genre is completely different.

The show starts off with teen detective sensation `Jimmy Kudo' solving a case. He is only seventeen years old, but is renowned for his detective skills and case solving expertise and is a bit of a celebrity in Japan where his efforts gets noticed in the local newspaper. Because of his popularity, he ends up getting most of the business and leaves Detective Richard Moore in the dust. Rachel, is Jimmy's best friend and harbors many strong feelings for him. Coincidentally, she is also Detective Moore's daughter. One day on a semi-date, Jimmy runs off to chase after some fishy looking men only to encounter his unfortunate fate. To make a long story short, Jimmy gets poisoned with an experimental drug that turns him into a kid and spends the rest of the series in the body of a pint size kid. In order to not get anyone in danger, he helps Detective Moore establish a bigger clientele base in hopes that over time he will eventually catch the men that did this to him. He does this by solving cases for Moore without him knowing. Jimmy gradually drops hints here and there to help Moore catch his culprit.

This is an addictive show and anyone who likes a murder mystery or a thriller will find themselves in love with the show as well. There is a great balance of humor and mystery. It's not an intense drama series, but its very light hearted and serious enough where it needs to be. Pick up this box set and watch all the excitement from the very beginning and follow Jimmy on his many adventures because "Only One Truth Prevails."

FUNIMATION, PLEASE RELEASE SEASON SIX ALREADY!!!