With the nostalgia boom still packing a wallop in the DVD universe, everyone has a film or two they can't wait to get in this amazing format.  Alan Parker's FAME nearly topped my list and it is a joy to behold anew -- sort of.
While its theme song seemed to play longer than the film's box office run, FAME touched a nerve with a generation desperate to achieve the American Dream of visible success.  Many young people saw the allure of the High School of the Performing Arts.  Even more saw the allure of New York City.  Combined, FAME became a true cult classic that still resonantes today. 
Watching the beautiful transfer of the film on DVD and hearing that memorable pop score again in the most pristine sound mix brought back a lot of youthful exuberence in a single moment.  The names Irene Cara, Lee Curreri, Paul McCrane, Barry Miller, Gene Anthony Ray and Maureen Teefy may not ring bells today -- if you're 30-something, you know they also mean Coco, Bruno, Montgomery, Ralph Garcy, Leroy and Doris Finsecker. I speak for many in my generation when I say we all identified with one of these stock film archetypes.
Like most of the film's of the era, it is funny discovering that FAME isn't as deep as I remember. Still, what made it such a hot ticket were the songs.  The musical numbers remain particularly effective, especially "Hot Lunch Jam" and Coco's lovely "Out Here on My Own," the ultimate teen angst ballad. And, I will never forget my first look at the "Rocky Horror Picture Show" and the "Time Warp" on screen.  If you were a Drama Club member, FAME was part of your repertoire.
Watching FAME as an adult also proved an indelible trip down memory lane and I am pleased to see that the film does hold much of its magic.  While the cast failed to go on to other levels of success, their combined efforts in this film are peerless in their innocence on screen, despite their vibrant skills as actors, dancers, musicians or singers. Director Alan Parker sometimes overreaches in capturing themes like reckless youth, ambition, show business and other pathos, but the film is so low-tech in its presentation.  Unencumbered by tricky camera work or other contrived stylistic conventions, the film remains spirited and alive, a hallmark of the pre-MTV age. For some, FAME may feel a little dated around the edges, but in this era of manufactured "American Idols," it is nice to recall how people sought to hone their crafts in a place of learning, not a reality show!
What is disappointing about this DVD are its lackluster special materials.  Interviews were conducted with members of the original cast, none of which were cut into a reunion special.  Instead, Warner Bros. offered the featurette from its original release publicity materials.  Even worse, the "reunion" commentary is relegated to moments in a branching format that feature the cast as floating heads in dark space.  It feel lazy and unispired, given the notoriety of the film, FAME deserved better.  
Regardless, it goes without saying that FAME remains a great pleasure and welcome addition to any collection.  It is going to live forever, after all.