I purchased this DVD at Target after reading reviews here on Amazon (I didn't want to wait for it to be shipped!). The reason I was drawn to this particular DVD is because I wanted something that was fast paced to get my heart pumping, but was dance inspired for toning. I am by no means a dancer and have never taken a dance class in my life. However, I ordered the Piloxing DVD by Viveca Jensen a few months ago and it combines pilates, ballet moves and boxing and I absolutely fell in love with it. The ballet dance inspired moves on that DVD leave me feeling sleek and toned without being achey. The stretching and toning moves combined together are perfect for me since I have a "bad" knee and am not looking to bulk up, but to slim/tone down. I am 230lbs at 5'10. I am not a small woman. This particular DVD was challenging due to the speed of the moves, but not overwhelmingly so. I was dripping sweat by the end of the lower body segment and my legs were definitely shakey. I had a lot of trouble with the abs section since I am not in excellent shape and have never really targeted my abs before. I simply did what I could and tried to do my best with the movements that were more difficult/unfamiliar. The first time doing this DVD I made it through over 42 minutes. I did not incorporate the jumping moves as the advanced example did, but also did not have to do all of the moves as the easy modifier did. The day after I was not very sore/ achey, but could definitely feel that I had worked my muscles (if that makes sense). I have done Supreme 90 day and other more intense training programs and they always leave me extremely sore and wiped out. Having a busy lifestyle, I don't have the option of constantly feeling drained and hurting when I move, but I still want to have some muscle tone! Putting the extra effort in is what does the trick for me with this DVD. When my legs start to shake I push through. I try to do every move as deep as I possibly can. I feel that there are just enough repetitions of each of the moves so that I can make it through them and have a slight recovery (though it did get difficult at the end of the lower body segment). All in all, I loved this DVD and am definitely incorporating it into my weekly workout routine.