The death certificate is somewhat confusing as to whether Earline Ruffin was domiciled in Mississippi or Alabama when she died. However, her complaint indicates that she was a resident of Meridian, Mississippi at the time this case began. See J.A. 87, Ruffin plaintiffs' complaint, p. 4, ¶ 11. The district court did not err in determining that Michigan law did not apply to her cause of action, and under Mississippi law, Earline Ruffin's defamation claim was properly dismissed. Assuming Alabama law applies, the result would not change.

D. Intentional infliction of emotional distress

  Under Michigan law, a prima facie case for intentional infliction of emotional distress requires the following elements: "(1) extreme and outrageous conduct; (2) intent or recklessness; (3) causation; and (4) severe emotional distress." Andrews v. Prudential Secs., Inc., 160 F.3d 304, 309 (6th Cir. 1998). Michigan law does not permit recovery when "mere insults, indignities...or other trivialities" occur as there "is no occasion for the law to intervene in every case where some one's feelings are hurt." Roberts v. Auto-Owners Ins. Co., 374 N.W.2d 905, 909 (Mich. 1985).

  The district court recognized that plaintiffs' claims under this theory of recovery varied slightly from one another, but that defendants' actions in this case "were not tortious in any sense, and certainly cannot be reasonably considered outrageous." J.A. 149, district court's opinion and order of February 3, 2000, p. 19. Assuming that there are inaccuracies in the mini-series as alleged by the plaintiffs, the district court determined that these inaccuracies "cannot be considered so extreme in degree as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency." Id.

  The Ruffin plaintiffs disagree, stating that the manner in which David Ruffin's death was depicted was so traumatic for them to watch that they later required medical treatment, and the intentional misrepresentation of his death was outrageous and extreme. Furthermore, plaintiffs allege that the portrayal of Earline Ruffin as a prostitute and an unchaste woman is highly offensive to a reasonable person. Hence, they argue that the dismissal of their claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress was erroneous.(5)

  Defendants argue that the mini-series is similar to statements contained in broadcasts and publications which generally do not constitute extreme or outrageous conduct. See Ross v. Burns, 612 F.2d 271, 273-74 (6th Cir. 1980)(finding newspaper's publication of photograph of undercover narcotics officer was not extreme and outrageous); Fry v. Ionia Sentinel-Standard, 300 N.W.2d 687 (Mich. Ct. App. 1980)(finding that an article reporting that the body of plaintiff's husband was removed from a cottage destroyed by fire along with the body of another woman he had been seen with at a local bar was not extreme). They state that the mini-series is similar in nature and therefore not outrageous.(6)

  Defendants also argue that Earline Ruffin failed to allege in her complaint that she suffered emotional distress because of her portrayal as a prostitute and therefore her claim was properly dismissed. Even so, the district court considered Earline Ruffin's claim under this theory and determined that defendants' conduct was neither extreme nor outrageous.

  Plaintiffs' reply brief cites Meyer v. Nottger, 241 N.W.2d 911 (Iowa 1976), a case they claim contains a scenario similar to the manner in which the mini-series misrepresented David Ruffin's death. Meyer held that a mortician's mishandling of a dead body, including misrepresentations to the bereaved family about the details of the body's state of decomposition, was extreme and outrageous.

  We agree with the district court that assuming each of the inaccuracies described in plaintiffs' complaints and submissions is inaccurate in the manner described by plaintiffs, defendants' actions in producing the story written by Otis Williams about the Temptations cannot be considered so extreme in degree as to go beyond all bounds of decency. The district court did not err in granting summary judgment on these claims.

VI. CONCLUSION

  Finding the district court did not err in ruling in favor of defendants on plaintiffs' claims of right of publicity, unjust enrichment, defamation, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, we AFFIRM. Footnotes

  *The Honorable Joseph M. Hood, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, sitting by designation.

  1 The district court permitted Johnnie Mae Mathews's claims of defamation and false light invasion of privacy to proceed.

  2 Josephine Miles and Rose Franklin each filed separate complaints, while the Ruffins filed a joint complaint.

  3 Earline Ruffin was a minister's wife and school teacher for forty years. She raised David Ruffin but was not his biological mother.

  4 In the district court, the Ruffin plaintiffs argued that the more favorable Michigan law applied because several of Earline Ruffin's prospective heirs were residents of Michigan. The district court held that "[s]uch an interest is too remote to outweigh Mississippi's traditional interest in having its law applied to defamation regarding its residents." J.A. 147, district court's opinion and order of February 3, 2000, p. 19. This argument is not revived on appeal.

  5 Neither Josephine Miles nor Rose Franklin appealed the grant of summary judgment on their claims of intentional infliction of emotional distress.

  6 The "newsworthy" cases cited by defendants are distinguishable from plaintiffs' circumstances because of the falsity alleged in the mini-series.