Halle Berry is the pick of the Catwoman litter as Patience Philips, a regular girl who finds herself in the center of a dangerous plot that puts her life in deadly peril. Fortunately, she's got nine lives and friends in feline places. Clad in leather and cracking a whip, Patience/Catwoman embarks on a game of cat and mouse with the baddies who murdered her. At her side is Midnight, a canny cat who guides her in the ways of revenge and redemption kitty-style.

Right from the opening frame, we know we're in for cinematic catnip with the best feline-themed opening credit sequence since Walk on the Wild Side (1962). Filling us in on the back story of the legend and reality of catwomen, we see how cats were revered in Ancient Egypt and how a special, mystical breed called the Egyptian Mau crossed oceans of time to continue to guide certain women of destiny to this very day.

Patience is one of those catwomen, but when first we meet her she is all human. She's overworked and under-appreciated toiling as a graphic designer for Hedare Beauty, a colossal cosmetics company on the verge of releasing an avant-garde anti-aging product. When Patience happens upon the dark secret her employer is keeping from an unsuspecting public, she finds herself knowing too much to be allowed to live. In a mystical twist of feline fate, she is killed but then transformed into a supernatural, catlike creature with a strong sense of justice and a craving for tuna. Patience by day and Catwoman by night, she starts to unravel the mystery of her death (that is, when she's not unraveling balls of yarn).

When it comes to the fine-line catwalk of feline and woman, Berry is pitch-purrfect. She doesn't scratch fleas or lick herself in inappropriate places like Puss in Boots, but she does do a stellar simulation when it suits the character(particularly when she discovers catnip; when she's just waking up; and when she falls from a high place). When she's not out catting around, Patience is a regular girl (make that a regular, incredibly beautiful girl) trying to juggle her social life with her supernatural life.

Catwoman is certainly Berry's show, but her co-stars all keep up more than admirably. Benjamin Bratt plays Tom Lone, a cop who has fallen for Patience but is also on the hunt for the mysterious Catwoman. He's got an easy, likeable charm and is a good match for Berry. Wilson Lambert and Sharon Stone play Patience's evil bosses at the cosmetics company and they both undulate with delicious, comic-book villainy. Another standout is Alex Borstein as Patience's coworker and best friend, Sally. Frances Conroy has a small but important role as Ophelia a woman who shelters the sacred felines.

Catwoman is the comics cream of the crop because this is one of the few superhero films that showcases a female lead with such texture. Sure -- she's a sexy, self-assured kitten with a whip but she's also an interesting, entertaining character that we're more than happy to spend a couple of hours with. It's also a terrific movie for cat-lovers.

There are some clever, insider cat jokes (for instance, the way Catwoman orders a White Russian at a bar) but not as many as you might hope for. The filmmakers definitely missed some marks, especially with the music. In fact, the musical score is my only somewhat complaint. The music in the action sequences was good, but aside from that there is way too much ditzy pop vocalizing going on which will definitely give the movie a stale, dated sound as the years go on.

The lighting, sets, costumes, etc., are all super stylish and just slightly heightened for a comic book world look and feel without going over the top. The director, Pitof, has a strong background in visual effects and it shows here very nicely. With Catwoman, his first American feature, he also proves he has the pacing and timing for an action film well in hand.

Catwoman is one of the rare summer popcorn flicks that is not oozing in testosterone and uzis. If you want to see a fun film that's empowering for women don't, er, paws... Pounce on a ticket now!