Note: May contain spoilers. Proceed with caution.

Man On A Ledge starts with Nick Cassidy, played by Sam Worthington, checking into a hotel and walking out onto the ledge of his room's window. I thought this was a very odd way to start the movie, I felt like they just jumped to something I thought was going to be a major scene, but as the movie went on it was clear this was the best place to put this scene. After he gets on the ledge there's a flashback of his father's funeral, and his escape from prison. So we learn he's an escaped convict, but we don't know why he was convicted. As the movie goes on we learn he's trying to prove that not only is he innocent, but he was set up.

As the movie progressed the writing seemed to go back and forth between good and stale. There were some really well written scenes, but then you had some that were really unbelievable. The dialogue, for the most part, I felt was well written and, at some parts, very clever. Especially when he was having to talk to Joey (Jamie Bell) and Angela (G&eacute;nesis Rodr&iacute;guez) at the same time he was talking to Lydia (Elizabeth Banks) I felt that whole scene was extremely well done.

Going into the movie I had no real idea what the story was about. Obviously you had a man on the ledge, and from the trailer it looked like a man trying to prove his innocence, but that's all you really know. Which is why I was so surprised at how much I actually enjoyed it. Sometimes knowing as little as possible while going into a movie makes it that much better. The same thing happened when I watched "Safe House" recently. I had no idea what it was about, and I loved it.

Finally, I don't know who G&eacute;nesis Rodr&iacute;guez is, but oh my god is she sexy. She has a scene where she's changing and you see her standing in her undergarments and she has a body that will make your jaw drop. I'll definitely be on the lookout for more of her in the future.

Overall Score: 7/10 - What we have here is a good movie with some good acting. The writing can be a little stale at times, and some scenes can be unbelievable, but what we're left with is an enjoyable suspense film held together by an excellent score from Henry Jackman.