Australian director Peter Weir's haunting masterpiece is an interwoven texture of poetic imagery and mythical allegory in what can be best described as Homer's Odyssey on screen. 'Picnic at Hanging Rock' is as deep as they come and no different to the unique insight of Weir's other notable successes 'Witness' and 'Fearless.' The story set in Victorian era, centres around a group of schoolgirls and their teacher who enjoy a school outing to a local beauty spot, where three girls and the teacher inexplicably vanish. Forget Agatha Christie and Ruth Rendell, this is no conventional mystery; but rather a chilling foray into the unknown where leads and clues are as vague as the picturesque yet brooding rock where the girls disappear. Weir eschews conventional plotting for a visual and audio extravaganza; concentrating instead on the stunning outback he has at his disposal and a hallucinatory score to suck you in to the lair of this hypnotic fantasy.
  Just like in 'Fearless' Weir uses this underlying theme of a stranger grappling to come to terms with a psychosis that cannot be explained on a logical level. But whereas in Fearless, it was a man struggling to comprehend his mortal status after surviving a plane crash, here it is a community trying to make sense of a landscape that almost seems personified in that it has managed to steal away its youth. Such is the feeling you get from 'Picnic' that as we see the girls climb higher and higher juxtaposed with the music reaching a climactic hysteria, that the director knows just as much as we do. That we are forced to accept in a possibly supernatural interpretation that the rock itself is responsible. This phenomenon becomes a stronger realisation as the few clues there are vanish into simplicity.
  Perhaps Weir is trying to say that nature and fate are conspiratorial twins, that need not rely on logic and a technical grounding to make sense. The point of 'Picnic' is to help the viewer cleanse himself of his inbuilt cynicism. And by the time the film has run its enigmatic time, the mesmerising maze you have explored without any hint of finalisation might have just taught you that lesson.