Not being a particular fan of the horror genre, I don't go out of my way to see any of the latest ones but having just finished watching Wolf Creek on late night TV, I feel strangely obliged to write this review and share some thoughts. I find this a difficult one to review because on the one hand Wolf Creek achieves all the goals of a horror film to a really high standard. I found the film really atmospheric and absolutely terrifying in parts (and I can't remember the last time I said that about a film) emulating classics such as Duel and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre; the junk yard setting for the killer's lair is a genuinely chilling location, full of rubbish and squalor and signs of his existence. The camera work is also very impressive, filmed in a realistic style and with some artistic and beautiful wide shots of the Australian outback emphasising the remoteness and futility of escape and I thought the direction was also really assured for a debut from a director who seems to actually enjoy the art of filmmaking. The film also managed to create a truly chilling character for the killer (played excellently by Jarratt).

Yet for all this praise, I was ultimately disappointed. With the docu-style filming, realistic / improvisational acting, the `based on true events' claim and the leisurely build up of the characters in the first half, Wolf Creek seems to attempt to be a different type of horror film, to elevate itself above those mundane and pedestrian Friday 13th's and Halloween's, being credible and intelligent and more importantly of being a film of integrity and sympathy about `real' people who would later find themselves caught up in a terrifying ordeal, hunted and tortured not by some ridiculous de-personalised monster with a scary mask, but by a 'real' man. It is with these expectations that Wolf Creek really disappoints and the film's unforgivable faults lie. My main issue with the film is that surely you cannot and should not try to satisfy an audiences' glee for blood and guts here as you would do in those deliberately exploitative B-movie schlock horrors. And unlike the unrealistic, one-dimensional cardboard characters of those B-movies who we don't really mind or care seeing killed off, here in Wolf Creek, by the time they enter their ordeal, the film has already gone to great lengths to make the characters hyper real; characters we have gotten to know and perhaps like, characters with `real' human emotions and behaviour - and how can anyone actually really want to see them suffer in such sadistic and downright distasteful ways and why would the director assume we would? And assuming these killings are not based on any known facts about those `true events' (the only survivor never sees or knows what happens to his friends after he is separated from them and their bodies were apparently never found), why would the director, who also wrote the screenplay, want to make their individual ordeals so nasty?

The desire to disturb an audience is legitimate and understandable, we can then empathise and really get a sense of the horrific plight but why the distasteful close ups, why do we need to see a close up of the chopped off fingers as they hit the ground, why do we need to see the knife enter the base of the spine? We can tell it would hurt without the downright exploitative close-ups. I felt far more disturbed when the first female character escapes from the shed out into the eerie junk yard and hears the horrible screams of her friend somewhere off screen like in The Blair Witch Project. I felt far more disturbed and tense when we didn't know what had happened to the male character Ben or where he was for about half an hour. Watching the second female character bound and gagged and antagonised from a distance through the window was far more disturbing than watching the close ups of Ben's wrists as he wrenched himself free from the nails.

It seems hypocritical to suggest that it's acceptable to show the gory killings and suffering of unrealistic characters in deliberately exploitative and unrealistic horror flicks and not acceptable in a realistic film such as this but that's how I see it, I suppose it seems disrespectful to the `real' character in some way and for me, it really ruined the film (along with the fact that there were quite a few disappointing clich&eacute;s - why didn't she make sure he was dead? Surely this guy has a telephone somewhere? How did he get into the backseat of the car without her noticing etc?). So despite an impressive and tense first half, Wolf Creek ultimately decides to be content as another lowly and exploitative horror flick, albeit a superior one. Shame.