In the tradition of "Gone with the Wind," "Casablanca" and "Lawrence of Arabia," director Frank Marshall gives us the greatest Hollywood epic of our time, "Congo."  The film is a cinematic triumph; storytelling at its best.  The story centers around a gorilla named Amy who, through sign-language and a hand-operated voice-synthesizer, is able to communicate with humans.  After Amy has a series of nightmares, her caretaker, Dr. Peter Elliot (Dylan Walsh), feels that its time to return Amy to the jungle from whence she came.  Along for the ride is TraviCom communications employee Dr. Karen Ross (Laura Linney) who wishes to enter the Congo with Peter and Amy in order to find her ex-fiance Charlie (Bruce Cambell), son of TraviCom CEO R.B. Travis (played with vigor by Joe Don Baker).  After Tim Curry and Ernie Hudson join the group the expedition is underway.  Let the good times roll.
What sets "Congo" apart from other adventure movies is its gorgeous African backdrop, a fantastic soundtrack and, without a doubt, the most talented cast ever assembled for a motion picture.
Tim Curry gives possibly the greatest performance of his storied career as Herkermer Homolka, a Romanian philanthropist who wants to help Amy get back to her jungle habitat (or does he?).  
In Captain Munro Kelly, veteran actor Ernie Hudson gives us one of the big screen's most legendary performances.  Amidst the never-ending peril of gunfire, murderous primates and scheming philanthropists which surround him in the sweltering jungles of the Congo, Hudson exudes a calm nonchalance and gives the film a healthy dose of subtlety and wit.  While in the thick of the glorious spectacle of the film's heart-pounding action and colorful performances, Hudson plays his character with a quiet elegance.  It's a skillfully executed performance which draws attention to the fact that Hudson is the glue of this ensemble piece.  His interactions with the expedition's other members provides the audience with little glimpses into their respective characters while, at the same time, allowing the film to never deviate from its seamless narrative flow.  It's a demanding role and Hudson is more than up for the task; he brings out the best in his fellow actors.  Case and point: Munro's relationship with expedition guide Kahega (played with blithe exuberance by the phenomenally talented Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje).  The filmmakers wisely underplayed the rapport between these characters and allowed the two gifted actors to simply hint at and imply a past of fond memories and shared adventures rather than drench the film with sloppy sentiment and inane banter.  Furthermore, what the two actors subtly express onscreen is undeniably touching; from the most minute of mannerisms and gestures, one gathers that there is an unquestionable camaraderie and an unspoken devotion between the two (The expression on Munro's face when Kahega meets his unfortunate demise at the hands of the grey killer ape is so devastating and soul-wrenching that it may have single-handedly won Hudson his much-deserved 1995 Sci-Fi Universe Magazine Reader's Choice Award for Best Supporting Actor).
In addition, the tension which exists between Munro's character and Curry's provides, arguably, the best moments "Congo."  The dialogue exchange between these two brilliant actors is an absolute treat to witness.  The two actors share such chemistry that one can't help but think Hudson and Curry will be prominently featured in the films inevitable sequel and/or sitcom spin-off.  
And, of course, let us not forget Amy the gorilla.  Amy's tender and affectionate performance assures that she can now be considered one of Hollywood's elite primate actors; she belongs to an A-list which includes Ed (from "Ed") Dunston (from "Dunston Checks In"), Buddy (from "Buddy") and Robin Williams (from "Jack").  It should be noted that Amy certainly has her share of detractors who find her performance tedious and her dialogue redundant.  Those critics, however, have absolutely no understanding of the patience and labor it takes to teach gorillas to talk; all things considered, Amy's performance is nothing short of miraculous.  Simply put, anybody who criticizes or mocks this splendid actress is a fool, an absolute fool.
Such performances enliven an already entertaining storyline filled with danger, intrigue, deception and enormous hippos.  Watching "Congo" is a tremendously gratifying experience; it is one of the greatest movies of all time and whoever chooses to sit and watch it will be greatly rewarded with a well-crafted tale.  As Curry's Homolka might put it, it is a movie "of incredible bounty."