Ok, I had never seen these films and was skeptical at first, but a friend of mine loved them so I bought the Planet of the Apes Evolution dvd set. After seeing the first one I went ape nuts! I loved the movie! Great cast of characters including Charlton Heston, Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, and Shakespearean actor Maurice Evans. I only wish I hadn't known the ending so it would have been a total shock. The sequel, Beneath the Planet of the Apes,  wasn't quite as good as the first and had lots of elements that could have been seen on a 60's Star Trek episode, but was still very enjoyable. The third film, Escape from the Planet of the Apes, is my second favorite. This time the main characters aren't the humans that we routed for in the first two, but the apes themselves. Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall give their best performances ever in this film. There is even comedy relief which is very well done. Then there's Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, my least favorite of the series. This film is good, but the logic behind the apes evolution from just your average zoo animal into upright standing, almost human, creatures in only 20 years is just unimaginable. There are a few good points that tie this one into the others really well however. The final film, Battle for the Planet of the Apes, is pretty good and has a great ending for the entire film series. But there is also the bonus 6th disc. A documentary on the entire Apes saga narated by the late Roddy McDowall with lots of great info. These films spawned a huge franchise of merchandise, tv series, and cartoon series. I now am going crazy buying Planet of the Apes comics, toys, and cd's whenever I find them. And in 2001 a brand new Planet of the Apes movie is coming out, a remake of the original directed by Tim Burton. If it's as good as the original then what Episode 1 did for Star Wars, this new Apes film will do for the Planet of the Apes franchise. We may be seeing lots of Apes in the near future. Hope you enjoy the films as much as I did!