Two Lane Blacktop is one of those movies that you hear about long before you see it.  It seems that while every car guy I have ever run across has heard of Two Lane Blacktop, few have ever seen it.  Like Vanishing Point,  it examines on some level the disillusionment that came at the close of the  1960's.  It is a movie about outsiders; those that choose to be and those  that desperately do not wish to be.  The one thread that ties them together  is the road.
For a true gearhead, Two Lane Blacktop is a joy.  To see all  of the legendary sixties muscle cars in their natural environment.....it  calls to mind a tradition of (illegal) street racing that still exists  today, for better or worse. Anyone who has seen it or done it will  instantly be pulled into the movie.  Of course, the quintessential gray  primer 55 Chevy, an unbeatable home-built street warrior, is the true hero  of the film. 
You don't see this movie for the dialogue and there isn't a  lot of it.  Some of the gearhead lingo is kind of lame, like where the gas  station attendant asks the Driver (James Taylor) if the 55 Chevy has a  "Chevy block." No duh.  Don't worry about it.  That isn't why you  are watching it.  
This movie is a time machine.  As a 38 year old, I  vividly remember those days and those cars, but through the eyes of an  eight year old with Hot Wheels cars and a Dad that drove four door sedans  (still does).  I always wanted (and now have) fast cars.  Seeing this movie  for the first time 20 years ago poured even more fuel on the flame.  Getting the opportunity to see it has always been an elusive pleasure,  because it has been broadcast so rarely, and then often edited.  This past  Christmas, my girlfriend got me a copy in the collector's tin. I have  watched it several times since, sometimes very loud.  The movie has a deep  texture, maybe even more so than Easy Rider, from which comparisons can be  drawn.  You aren't watching the people alone in this movie, however.  Rather, you are taking in everything that is in it. The wide screen format  is only way to go. If only you could smell the fuel, the oil and the  burning rubber while you watch it. Every car guy has to have this video,  along with Vanishing Point and Bullitt.