To begin with, I had very low expectations of "The Hulk." Many of my friends had gone to see it in the theatre and the basic sentiment among most of them is that it was "boring," "too-long", and "confusing." This coming from people who are not simply violent-action movie junkies convinced me to wait until this movie was released on DVD. In a way, I'm glad I did.

As someone who only has a basic knowledge of Hulklore, I can't authentically critique the movie much when it comes to how well it followed the comic books. What I can say is that in comparison to many other well-adapted comic book series (X-Men, Spiderman, and yes...even Daredevil) this one actually stands out when it comes to how well the main character's inner turmoil and past experiences are used to shape his current conflicts with not only himself, but the forces around him. Eric Bana (who cemented his hunk status with his stunning performance in the lackluster Troy) has received a lot of criticism for his lack of energy in portraying Bruce Banner, but when you consider how repressed and guarded the character is about his past and present emotions, it's obvious that Bana's performance is actually quite impressive in it's accuracy.

Another thing that stuck out to me from a characterization viewpoint is how Sam Elliott's character (the main villain) was far from one-dimensional and actually very relatable and humanistic, especially when it came to his relationship with his daughter Betty (an appropriately subdued portrayal by Jennifer Connelly.) In fact, other than the typical villain-type Talbot (Josh Lucas did very well too, by the way), none of the players in this film were overtly or innately evil. Not even Bruce's psychotic father David (Nick Nolte, in my opinion, took this character to a totally new level of moral ambiguity by adding necessary layers that most likely would have been lost if the character were in the hands of a lesser actor.)

All in all, I'd say the Hulk was kind of similar to "Daredevil" in the way that it's cerebral nature can either offend or enamor one to the film's nuances. I for one liked the comic-effect the split screens and overlays supplied, and despite a few awkward scenes the CGI Hulk was astoundingly humanistic in it's movement and especially facial expression.

Don't be discouraged by those who flat-out hated the movie. Keep an open mind, and don't be surprised if you find yourself enjoying the movie as much as I did.