Having taken the time to read all the reviews and comments about this smooth, artsy diamond-in-the-rough, "Detour", I had to ask myself, "Was anyone else watching the same movie I was?" Granted, I do agree with much of what has been written and I would give this movie a high rating; certainly one worthy of a high recommendation, but... I saw the entire premise of this movie in a different light than any other reviewer, evidently. Most of them saw the Tom Neal Character of Al Roberts as either a fool, a chump or the unluckiest guy in the world. I saw him as a murderer! This entire movie is shown from Roberts' point of view, remember, in the form of flashbacks and his own narration. As the movie progresses, we can hear him attempting to rationalize, and justify, the murder of both Haskell and Vera. The 'ride' he is taking the viewer on is one he has orchestrated himself. It's as if we, the viewers, are the jury and Al Roberts, on trial for the murders, is 'telling' us what 'really' happened. Wink-wink, nudge-nudge. For example, after Haskell is 'discovered' dead in his car and Roberts drags him into a ravine to hide the body, his voice-over narration lets us know the reason he 'had' to take the man's wallet. Of COURSE, a dead man has no use for over 700 bucks, and Al was broke... and, of COURSE, no one would believe that such an expensive car would belong to a man so shabbily dressed, so Al just HAD to switch clothes with the corpse. Yeah, right, Al. Then comes the lovely, charming and oh-so-demure Vera. After Roberts 'finds' her strangled by a telephone cord, we, the jury, are supposed to believe that's just the way it happened, never mind that it is patently ridiculous. He wants us to believe he is just a poor, dumb schlock who made some bad decisions and Fate took over from there. Oh, and lookie here... here's yet ANOTHER example of the HORRIBLE luck this unfortunate, miserable schmuck has run into. A police car just HAPPENS to be waiting for him as he leaves the diner. My word, how badly this poor schlemeel has been treated by Lady Luck! Anyway, that's my take on this whole story. He killed two people and is trying to make us believe he is a victim of cruel Fate. Well, as foreman of this jury, I'm not buying it. I find the defendant, Al Roberts, GUILTY as charged. Thank you, your honor. Oh yeah, this is a review.... Great flick, good acting (especially the frighteningly convincing performance of Ann Savage as the Devil herself), and a fun 'hypotheical' story that can be confusing. As I say, is he really a murderer, or a poor, unlucky victim himself? Sort of reminds me of the ending of Total Recall. Did Arnold Schwarzenegger REALLY go to Mars and do all those things, or was it all a dream? Hmmm...