While the title of my review may be a bit outlandish, I do very much enjoy this film. It is my favorite of all time. I usually watch "Bridge Too Far" two to three times a week whether my wife wants me to or not. I also have an interest in World War II re-enacting. My impression is that of  British paratrooper. 
This film is quite accurate and follows Cornelius  Ryan's text, but there are some minor details that aren't in the book. The  character "General Ludwig", I believe was based on the following  two German officers who were present at the battle: Lt. Col Harzer of the  9th SS Hohenstaufen Division and Major Gen. Harmel of the 10th SS  Frundsberg Division. These were the two armored divisions that were in  Arnhem at the time of Market Garden. Likewise, the character  "Harry", British second-in-command at the bridge, was based on  Major Digby Tatham-Warter, who did in fact carry an umbrella with him into  combat. The charater Col. Bobby Stout was not a real person in the 101st  Screaming Eagles at Son. Yet, these are minor "creative  licensing" details and do not take away from the film.
While some  have commented that the film appears disjointed and does not flow, one has  to remember this film encompassed a battle that raged from September 17-26  - nine days. In my opinion Joseph E. Levine, producer, Richard  Attenborough, director, and William Goldman, the scriptwriter, wanted to  capture and emphasize the minor failures that led to the "90 percent  success" at Arnhem. I have read many accounts of the battle, not just  Ryan's book, and there are many factors that led to Market Garden's  ultimate failure. The writer and director don't have the time to show the  viewer all the details, so I believe there was an emphasis on those  failures that a non-military audience could understand. Such failures  included: the failure in the British's trust of Dutch intelligence (which  prior to Market Garden had been infiltrated by the Germans), the failure of  the radio system, the use of a single-lane highway, the failure to capture  the Son bridge in tact which delayed XXX Corps' advance for at least 36  hours, the failure of the 82nd Airborne to immediately capture Nijmegen  bridge, the landing zones eight miles from the bridge, the inability of the  British Airborne to reach the bridge at full force and the inability to  resupply the British Airborne at Arnhem. Based upon the numerous accounts  and details of the battle, I believe Attenborough and Levine captured the  essence of what Market Garden was about. Montgomery did want a single  thrust into Germany in an attempt to shorten the war. 
Some have  complained about the large cast. I did not have a problem with this because  the actual battle had such a true cast of participants. Sean Connery looks  like Gen. R.E. Urqhart. Anthony Hopkins looks like Col. John Frost. Liv  Ullman looks like Kate ter Horst. Although Ryan O'Neil does overact in his  role as James Gavin, as one reviewer mentioned previously Gavin was a young  general. I have a special fondness for Hopkins as Frost, but I also enjoyed  Edward Fox as General Brian Horrocks. He did a masterful job of capturing  the zeal and enthusiasm of Horrocks. I really don't think the large cast  takes anything away from the film.
For those who enjoy this film as much  as I do, I strongly recommend other accounts of the battle. R.E. Urqhart's  "Arnhem" is solid as is John Frost's "One Drop Too  Many." I also recommend "The Devil's Birthday" by Geoffrey  Powell.
While "Bridge Too Far" may not reach those same  standards set by today's World War II movies like "Saving Private  Ryan," I think it still captures the essence of what happened during  Market Garden.