I had the great honor of attending a full dress rehearsal of A New Day a week before the show opened - 7th row center. This was actually the performance that was televised (in part) on opening night, March 27th 2003.  It was nothing short of AMAZING!!!  Being a full dress rehearsal where the show producers were still deciding which acts would stay and which acts would have to be cut due to time constraints of the actual show we were treated to a much longer version with acts that have never been done for the general public.  What a rare gift!

I also had opening night tickets for myself and my family. Again AMAZING.  Living in Las Vegas, I've had the pleasure of seeing the show three more times since then (a total of 5 times over the past 5 years).  The last show I saw was December 8th, 2007 - closing week. Each of the five shows has been a bit different with different costumes and different staging for most of the numbers.  And each show has been wonderful- so full of energy, heart and immense talent!  As I watch the DVD, I can tell by the costumes that the show was videotaped sometime in the past year so it's very current.

With that background, I can tell you without hesitation, this DVD set is INCREDIBLE!  While obviously not the same as being in the audience, they producers have done a wonderful job of capturing the total show and the impact of it all.  It would be impossible to capture everything that's happening on stage, all of the dancers, the "sets", the cinematography on the GIGANTIC LCD screen in the background, the flying instruments ... there is so much happening on and above the huge stage that a camera is incapable of completely capturing it all.  However, the director, cameramen and technicians have done a remarkable job of capturing as much as humanly possible and bringing the at-home audience a BETTER THAN first rate experience.

The "extras" on the DVD are wonderful as well.  The viewer is taken on a limo ride with Celine and Renee, from their home in Lake Las Vegas to the theatre and the dressing room.  You have an intimate look at what goes into preparing for the show and what goes on back stage.  While our Star is on stage singing her heart out, you have a look at the other performers as they prepare for their roles.  It's a very interesting and enjoyable look into the reality of the production and see the dedication, talent and pure heart of all involved!

More bonus features take you back to the beginning - from inspiration to creation.  You hear from Franco Dragone.  You learn about the auditions of the cast.  You get a glimpse of Celine meeting her cast members for the first time.  Watch as the theatre is built and the show evolves from inspiration to actualization.  And so much more.  Very interesting and even inspirational.

I absolutely LOVE this DVD set and highly recommend it!  If you've never had the thrill of attending this show, you owe it to yourself to experience it through the DVD.  If you have had the privilege of seeing the show, you'll love reliving the experience over and over again as well as watching the bonus features.  STANDING OVATION for this DVD set... BRAVO - WELL DONE!