This is a great workout for those who are not particularly "out-of-shape" but need a way to get into a new fitness routine.  She's quite motivating, and... at first she annoyed me a little, until one day I started mocking her doing the workout... and it actually made the workout easier and much more effective. In other words, be as annoyingly peppy as she is... you'll see results.

It's important for buyers to know how the cardio section works: she builds three or four mini-routines. She shows you different segments of each, then puts them together in a mini-routine, which you do three full times through.  It's really effective. Also, she works at a great pace, going slower and faster to match your needs.

The workout bands allow versatility in your workout. At first, it takes a little practice to manipulate them correctly, but once you get it down, you can actually make your workout harder and easier as you need it, adapting as your level increases. I actually bought a set of newer bands (shorter, yes) but still effective. It allowed me to increase my resistivity.

She doesn't really explain the steps you do, but as you're watching, they're relatively easy to pick up and copy. By the third viewing, my excersize partner and I were doing it smoothly.  Her cues aren't the best, but once you work through the routines, you don't even really need her.

The upper body workout is really nice... short, but nice. Again, you can make it harder by upping your resistivity with the band, or buying stronger bands. The lower body workout really kicks your butt. When she says "squeeze," really squeeze. She's not just being annoying, she's serious. You get a much better workout when you listen to her.  The butt-blaster. Yeah. It blasts your butt.

Ab workout is the only complaint. You NEED upper body strength to complete her ab workout properly. Otherwise, hurting yourself is a possibility. But, she does do different levels of intensity through the ab workout, allowing you to take it easy through the first few times you do it.

All in all, a really good workout... and you can make it a really great workout with a little effort and patience.  Give it a try, and remember to "mock" Denise... it works!  WOO HOO!  LIFT!! SQUEEZE!! WOO HOO!