The elephant man is a fictionalized movie about the life of a man named John Merrick (Joseph Carey Merrick was actually his real name) who lived in the 19th century and suffered from a disfiguring disease which limited him to career working as a circus side show entertainer.

It was originally thought Merrick's disease was either neurofibromatosis or elephantiasis.  Generally speaking, Neurofibromatosis is a genetic condition that affects the skin, bones, muscles, and the central nervous system.  Elephantiasis which is also known as Lymphatic Filariasis, is a disease, often found in tropical countries, in which parts of the human body become enlarged. It is caused by small roundworms that are injected into the body by mosquitoes.

However, around the time the film came out, it was suggested that Merrick had Proteus syndrome or "Elephant Man's Disease", which causes abnormal, unchecked growth of skeletal, dermatological, and other bodily systems.  Clinical experts seem now to aggree that Merrick suffered from Proteus syndrome.  Proteus syndrome also demonstrates great clinical variability meaning it is not constant in its expression and fewer than 100 cases of Proteus have ever been recorded.

The story is moving and the performances delivered by John Hurt in the role of the Elephant Man and Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Frederick Treves, are spectacular.  I was touched by the manner in which director David Lynch conveys the message that "all humans matter."  This film also features
fine and dignified performances by Anne Bancroft and John Gielgud. Freddie Jones is brilliant in the part of Bytes and in one line immortalizes the movie when he refers to Merrick in the possessive as "my treasure."  The words uttered by Bytes are reminscent of Tolkiens Golem who when refering to the ring of power used "my precious" to signify his unhealthy attachment.

For those of you that have read about the real life of Joseph Merrick, you will notice that Hollywood used their creative liberties in creating an interesting, though fictionalized black and white version of the real story.

So when your girlfriend becomes upset and starts to cry at the end of the film, you can comfort her and let her know that in reality it was not that way.  You can explain that no one enslaved Merrick and that it was in fact Merrick who actively sought out a career in the circus pitching himself to Sam Torr, a compassionate man and small time showman portrayed in the movie as Merrick's unscrupulous exploiter Bytes.  Instead of possessing Merrick for personal gain, Torr facilitated a meeting for Merrick to meet Tom Norman the P.T. Barnum of Victorian England.  Ultimately, it was Tom Norman who generously paid for the many surgeries Merrick would require and helped Merrick become successful in the circus business.

The portrayal of Joseph Carey Merrick's death however was accurate.  Joseph Carey Merrick died of asphyxiation when attempting lie down like a normal person might.  When he did, the weight of the tumors on his head and neck had crushed his trachea.  It is not clear if he committed suicide, but you can judge for yourself.  This movie is a must for all collectors of fine films.