Bruce Lee was the greatest martial artist ever, and I think this was his best film.  The martial arts action is excellent in this movie.  Bruce Lee's match against Bob Wall is one of the best fight sequences filmed.  The only other fight scene that compares is Bruce Lee's fight against Chuck Norris in Return of the Dragon.  Bob Wall could really take some punishment which makes the fight scene look all the more realistic.  
Even the other stars, Jim Kelly and John Saxon, are adequate, though we'd much rather see Bruce.  We're cheated of seeing Bruce take on Bolo in one scene so that John Saxon could get some more screen time.  Still, there's plenty of action from Bruce as he takes on teams of palace gaurds who are actual tri-ad members.  John Saxon actually went into the film thinking that he would be the star, and Warner Bros., concerned that Bruce Lee wouldn't be able to carry the film as an asian actor, let Saxon believe this as they filmed it.
I think this is better than BL's other films for several reasons.  For one thing, this is the only Lee film with Bruce's actual voice, and not some stupid sounding dubbed voice-over.  Also, the choreography is more realistic than the others, with the possible exception of Return of the Dragon, which was entirely choreographed by Bruce Lee.  Bruce Lee did much of the choregraphy for the Raymond Chow films, Fists of Fury and The Chinese Connection, but not all of it.  Therefore there's a lot of phony looking wire-work in those movies.  Return of the Dragon was the only movie directed by Bruce and is definately worth getting after ETD.  However it sometimes looks a little amateurish and the soundtrack and production's not nearly as good as ETD.  Game of Death is the last Bruce Lee film anyone should get as he only had 28 minutes of it done before he died. A double was used for the rest of the movie.  The movie is notable for Bruce's fight with Kareem Abdul Jabar and also his nunchaku fight with Dan Inosanto, Bruce's training partner.
This version of ETD features a cut scene where Bruce discusses eastern philosophy with a monk.  The dialogue is crucial to a later scene where Bruce figures out a way to defeat his adversary.  Warner Bros. originally cut the scene because they thought western audiences wouldn't understand it.  The source print is very good and I didn't see any flaws.  The soundtrack is remastered in DD but still mostly comes out of the center channel. It also has extensive interview with Bruce and original trailors.  If you get only one martial arts movie, get this one!