This movie kicks butt...plain and simple.  Don't be swayed by those who compare "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" with this film; they are two totally different movies about two totally different eras of Thompson's life and psyche.

This film deals with the exaggerated life and times of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson the journalist at the beginning of his nationally recognized career, circa 1967-1973.  The movie moves in chronological fashion, pulling stories and situations from 4 or 5 books he wrote which chronicled his travels and findings during that time period ("Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail" is one of those books).  The movie was made a t a time (1979) when few knew who this man was, so it was presented in a manner which would make the characters in the film easily accessible to movie-goers and fans alike.  I read "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" for a book report assignment before I saw this movie, and immediately recognized the few, short moments attributed to stories told in the text.

Contrary to what other reviewers have written, Bill Murray played the character of Dr. Thompson very well.  Bill & Hunter were very good friends throughout the 70's, and despite his assertion that he "signed off on the production rights" to the movie on day-one of shooting, Thompson was still on location for the entire filming (albeit, firing machine guns off set for fun), he still had some say so in the story.  If you've read the books Dr. Thompson wrote about his travels from 67-73, you will enjoy this movie.  The situations are hilarious, and just when you think Thompson is going to clean up his act, Lazlo (a character loosely based on Hunter's attorney friend Zeta Acosta), played obscurely by Peter Boyle, shows up and coerces Hunter into destructive, unreal situations.

Great scenes?  'The Superbowl.'  Instead of attending (like he was supposed to), he has a wild, drug induced party-of-one in his hotel room, as s he sets his room up like a miniature football field.  He gets a hotel bell boy and a maid to "play out" the game, as they continue to get high and drunk.  'The zoo.'  Hunter is forced to ride on an airplane with the camera guys and other misfits instead of the regular plane for the writers.  He slips what appears to be quaaludes or microdots into someone's mouth, gets super drunk thanks to his surgeon's bag filled with grapefruit slices and vodka, and ends up piloting the plane while singing "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds."

"The hospital."  Lazlo comes and "rescues" Hunter, as he his held up in a hospital room with a vidka IV and a youing pin-striper that he almost has nude.  Lazlo and Hunter take off in his convertable, crashing it into a religious statue and foutain out in fron of the building.  the great scenes are endless.

Unfortunately, director Art Linson was a hapless mess on the set.  The movie isn't epic; it's just another spoof style, slapstick comedy.  but if you're a fan of Dr. Thompson, Bill Murray and comedies, this is a must have.  Don't expect an intellectual mind journey...that was not the purpose of this film.  This movie is nothing at all like Terry Gilliam's "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas."