Wow, so there is no doubt that many shia lebouf fans will probably respond to this review with some sort of attempt at being snappy to try and make it seem like what i'm going to say is flawed. I dont particularly care.

This story had potential!

In the classic sense of a hitchcock thrillers, this movie would have done so much better if they didnt try and fit as many branded products into the movie so that the studio wouldnt have to put a dime in. A real shame since so many great movies now give up a lot for the sake of product placement in the movie.

What product placement you say? How about our hero lebouf in question is sitting at home eating smuckers and twinkies while playing his xbox 360 and swilling cans of red bull while he stocks his ipod with "60 gb of his life" while filming his neighbour serenade his mum with a panasonic camera in his mustang which was dented but suddenly its not when all the while he cant help but perv on his neighbour who drives her father's BMW X5 chatting to her friends on her nokia while his strange but quirky asian friend (note: they had to have an asian kid in it! how else will you represent a minority in a movie full of gadgets? Blacks and Mexicans, it seems, wouldnt fit) with HIS nokia phone multi tasking and his cRaZy hair do playing his PSP drinking red bull too eating dominos who winds up breaking into a lexus and walking around with a little slugger baseball bat to help save the day while helping to spy on his friends neighbour with some cool branded binoculars.

I mean this is how much the movie sold itself out: the final line of the movie is our hero lebouf and his love interest, making out while his friend is filming them who then turns around and says "This is so going on youtube"... and they just continue as if he's not there?!

WOW. What a meaningful and appropriate line for this two hour advertisment! What a creepy way to end it too, as if the movie director didnt see the point in showing that despite vouyerism got everyone into this whole mess, "its still ok to do so cause we have to work on theme a bit LOL".

What a waste of time, and there I was thinking how awesome would it be if Labeouf made this whole story up in his head, became the actual stalker and wound up killing his neighbour, the girl he likes and then bricks on his friends chest while they serenade each other over how stupid they thought the audience and Labeoufs neighbours were. Thats about all that would have excused this movie from being one big advert and would have had a standing applause from me.

Ignore this movie, go spend your money on something like an original hitchcock movie, there are no product endorsements and there is actually focus on the acting!