My health and my life and the lives of many family and friends have been transformed due to the knowledge imparted thru the books these doctors and doctors like them, like Dr. John McDougall have written. No negative comments can be justified unless the writer has tried this way of eating, correctly, and for at least a week.  After one week (or less) feeling the positive changes taking place in your body will give way to being a fan for life.  Why?  because this is a life giving lifestyle change.

I had what I thought were intractible allergies...they have been gone for around ten years now.  This is after years of allergy injections and decades of medications and one sinus surgery.

I no longer have asthma.  It was nice to dispense with the inhalers.

My blood pressure was high and I was resistant to take antihypertensives...my B/P has been on the low side both systolically and diastolically for years.

My total cholesterol at the last reading was 133 and it had been around 212 before eating this way.

I had hot flashes...that is definitely an animal product induced problem...eating low fat vegan equals absolutely no hot flashes.  And, Ladies, all cellulite has disappeared.

I have the energy of a ten year old....and the joy.  This is no exaggeration.

Symptoms of arthritis left and never returned.

I sleep like a baby...and don't require all of the sleep I needed before.  I awake happy and ready to meet the day.

I had fibrocystic disease of the breasts...that is gone.

I became heavy when I stopped nursing my last child...I had never been overweight before and at age 42 I didn't stop eating  for two and my weight rose to 168 and my normal weight was always between 115 and 118 lbs.  I now weigh 112 lbs. at age 60!

My vision improved, my skin is softer.

My endurance for physical work and exercise is phenomenal.

I no longer experience heart burn and  I am without  gastrointestinal complaints... period.

Also, I never experience bad breath.  My mouth in the morning is actually pleasant tasting....and, body odor is a thing of the past, as well.

I had a heart procedure before adopting this lifestyle and this lifestyle change cured a heart disorder.

I haven't visited a doctors office in years.  I don't need to.  I am living my life as nature intended.

Look at the science...we are mammals. Do a light study of other mammals..look at horses or gorillas...they are vegan...and they are magnificent..no fat, gorgeously muscled...

True, I occasionally miss the ice cream of the lethal Standard American Diet....but, when I think of the alternative....oh, yes, I do have a remaining allergy: to doctors and hospitals..the very idea makes me break out in a cold sweat.

Some people just don't want to change their eating habits and then they criticize this lifestyle and the learned people providing it's information and research results.  If you are one of these people...just be honest and say you just don't want to change the way you eat. That is your perogative...but it's foolish and very insulting to lambast truly learned men who also happen to be doctors of the ilk of being true to their profession and to their oaths.  Doctors who sign on to this information for true healing don't make a lot of money....because the patients generally don't get sick any more.  And, this is the reason why mainstream medicine isn't adapting to this....follow the money...medicine is big business...it's no longer a charitable institution...and to be fair there are doctors who are like sheep....whatever they were taught in medical school is gospel to them and they don't challenge it....but, every doctor worth his salt should develop his gift of discernment...weigh things out...challenge the status quo in his own mind and, try this lifestyle out and see....in other words, they should become real doctors...real healers.  Thank you.

I had to add to my review.  Today is July 21st and I read the reviews of both Zardoz and T.J. Estop.

I do not understand how anyone can post a negative review when they have not thoroughly researched the research and have not lived this lifestyle in a dedicated and complete fashion for at least one week.  For if they had they would post a glowing and grateful review for this treasure trove of precious information.  T. Colin Campbell, Phd. and Dr. Caldwell Esselstyn aren't the only doctors who have conducted long-term studies and gleaned the same results. One of the many is Dr. Dean Ornish, how about Dr. Neal Barnard?  Or Joel Fuhrman? or Dr. Max Gerson? Read the books of John Robbins.  And, this advice is just to start you out on your journey of real research.

Or, look to the studies of indigenous people all over the globe whose lifestyles are the same as that of their ancestors and live this low fat vegan lifestyle because it has been passed down to them.  Hands down these people are among the healthiest, and longest lived people on the planet.  These folks don't experience diabetes, cancer, heart disease, the arthritises, M.S.....I'll stop here, you get the picture.

I am making a plea to all who read these reviews to not be dissuaded by these two negative reviews.  The information provided in the dvd Forks Over Knives can be life saving and definitely life enhancing to a degree I can't even describe.

These two reviewers may be acquainted with a vegan who eats a lot of fatty foods like oils and nuts and/or an over-weight vegan or a sickly vegan...vegans who do not follow the low-fat diet and lifestyle described by this documentary and so many other documentaries, lectures, websites, books and other media... And, this may have turned them off on veganism.  Whatever it is...they do not know what they are writing about.

This brand of veganism is precise and the way to the healthiest and happiest of lives.

Reader take heed from those of us who have followed the research from the past to the present...take heed from those of us who have turned our health around in a  variety of ways.  I have nothing to gain by anyone else taking on this diet, but, I am a retired R.N. and have first-hand experience with the corruption of the medical business and was witness to enough medical malpractice and fraud to fill a couple of volumes.  And, do think about this:  do you really want to take harmful chemicals into your body when you have an illness or a disease?  That is  the medicine of the allopathic physician.  There are myriad side effects possible and these drugs will break down your body systems.

  Wouldn't you much rather take food as your medicine and not harm your body and know that your chances of achieving wellness are largely greater?

If you want to see proof of a low fat vegan athlete...Google Dr. Ruth Heidrich who is in her mid-seventies...she has been competing and winning Iron Man events for over a decade... she had cancer with mets and went to Dr. John McDougall for a second opinion and he put her on the low fat vegan diet and it saved her life...that was over 25 years ago!!!

That is one person of tens of thousands of who have chased away disease  with this diet.

One other benefit I have recently discovered in this period of intense summer heat is this:  I can be outside in this heat for hours, working hard in my garden or out walking and my breathing is normal.  I am not affected negatively in any way by the heat.

My husband has a light case of emphysema and had quit smoking 8 years ago.  He has been outside performing yard work and he marvelled at how he hasn't been short of breath, at all.  And, the man is performing heavy work.  He has been eating a low fat vegan diet for as long as I have.

Before I ate this way, this weather frightened me because I would become lightheaded, and short of breath on very little exertion in the extreme heat.

So, to the negative reviewers I say, "Put that in your pipe and smoke it!"