Gordon Douglas triumphs with his directorial work in "Them!", the quintessential giant monster-on-the loose movie. Extremely well paced and taughtly directed, "Them!" boasts an eerie, moody atmosphere that permeates the film. This movie has been so well made that it rises above its surprisingly unconvincing special effects and pulp science fiction roots and becomes a classic of the genre. Director Douglas has fashioned a stripped-down movie that sets a powerful mood without wasting a single frame of film. His characters are very believable and well developed. 
The film opens in the eerie, lonely, wind swept Joshua-tree forests around Victorville, California, substituting for the New Mexico desert in the White Sands region. A police car comes across a lone little girl in the desert who, deep in shock, can only shout "Them!". Soon the police officers discover the wreckage of a lone trailer where the girl resided. What follows is more a detective story than anything else, with the menace of the giant ants being slowly revealed. Gordon Douglas handles the exposition of these ants so well that it is very easy to suspend disbelief. A certain sense of repulsive, uneasy wonder develops throughout the film and climaxes very effectively in the storm drains and sewers of Los Angeles, where the ants make their final stand.
The movie begins and ends with a theme of children being threatened, from the little girl who has one of the first encounters with the ants to the two little boys who are trapped in the storm drains with the ants at the end of the film. Normally, I find using threatened children as a plot device to be a cheap way to build audience sympathy, but here it is so well handled and tastefully done that I wasn't bothered by it.
Music and especially the sound effects are all equally well handled, becoming contributors to the highly effective whole that is "Them!". See this movie and see the craft of well made story telling at its best.
The video transfer is very competent and crisply done. The glorious black-and-white print used in the tranfer is clean with no obvious splices. The sound, though mono only, is clean and clear.