Back in 1999 with the release of Star Wars - The Phantom Menace, some fanboy reviewer proclaimed; "George Lucas has ruined my childhood!" I wanted to slap the silly clown for reinforcing the stereotype that Science Fiction fans were snobbish nerds, obsessed with their entertainment. And although Phantom Menace was a rather mediocre film, it did NOT deserve that kind of vitriol.

Gerry & Sylvia Anderson created several classic shows, but it is Thunderbirds that commands the most respect and love. It is a testimony to the quality of the 40-year old young-adult's show that Thunderbirds is still quite watchable today. What made the 1960s show work? (NOTE: the word ICONIC is about to be used a lot): The stories, the technology, the optimistic and lovable characters, the humour and the absolutely iconic vehicles make for an irresistible package, loved by hundreds of millions.

WHAT'S GOOD: Say what you like about Director Jonathan Frakes, at least his film isn't boring. The cinematography is bright and pleasing. The sets are a satisfying blend of retro and modern, combined with bright primary colours. Tracy Island itself is beautiful, truly a paradise you'd want to live on. The visual effects are impressive. Then again, in this day in age there's no excuse for bad effects in a big budget picture. The re-design of the iconic Thunderbirds machines are, for the most part, pleasing. However, the new Thunderbird 2 looks like a flying saucer with a pointy nose. Sorry guys, you changed that icon WAY too much. But I didn't mind the new FAB 1, flying or not.

Because Rolls Royce/BMW refused to be associated with a "kids film", they missed a valuable product placement opportunity. More fool them, as the new FAB 1 toys have all sold out in England and Europe.

Sophia Myles is the new Lady Penelope and I'd say that a new star is born. Of all the actors in this movie, she is the one who comes off best and the character of Penelope survives the transition to live action reasonably well. Myles is drop dead gorgeous and all those other clich&eacute;s. Every time she appeared, she quite literally lit up the screen, Watch out for this young lady, she's going places!!

Veteran British character actor Ron Cook is an adequate Parker, though the script supplies him with few really character defining moments. The old marionette Parker was a splendid cockney stereotype that nonetheless, could be relied on when the going got tough.

WHAT'S BAD: I believe "The Suits" really got a hold of this potential franchise and dumbed it down to nearly "Scooby-Doo" levels. The script's lack of plot and style has set near record levels of puerility and mediocrity. It's NO boast to say that I could have done better myself. This film comes off like a illegitimate brother of the Spy Kids movies. I also watched with a sinking feeling as a cynical, second-rate rip-off of Harry Potter's Ron, Harry and Hermione trio was perpetrated in the form of Alan Tracy, Tintin and the totally unnecessary Fermat character.

There is also the destruction of one of Thunderbirds most beloved and iconic characters; Brains. Anthony Edward's depiction is a cruel parody of our beloved geeky scientist, who in spite of his odd puppet caricature, stammer and thick glasses always had a charming dignity to him. But the movie-style Brains has the worst possible hairstyle and his speech impediment, never excessive in the puppet series, is exaggerated in an attempt to get cheap laughs. But I blame the script more than I do the actor. The live action "Brains Hackenbacker" has no dignity at all.

Genre veteran Bill Paxton is the patriarchal action man, Jeff Tracy. During one of the films few high points he utters lines that almost manage to save the spirit of this Thunderbirds film. He sternly says to Alan Tracy that there are no shortcuts to achievement in life and that saving people is what International Rescue does, no matter what. Alan is played by Brady Corbet, who has an unfortunate tendency to stare open-mouthed when not delivering lines. Ben Kingsley as the Hood tries hard but lacks the arch-villain factor. His motivations in the film are a snooze: He blames Jeff Tracy for his old injuries (yawn) and wants to use the Thunderbirds to rob the Bank of England's vaults (yawn again!).

The Hoods two main henchmen are badly written characters that manage to bungle nearly everything they do. They give no sense of menace or villainous competence at all. Am I missing the point? Are they supposed to be incompetent so three young kids, Ron, Hermio- er, I mean Fermat, Tintin and Alan can defeat them? No, plainly they suck. There's even homage to Harry Potter's Quidditch matches with a chase scene where Alan Tracy evades the baddies. Other things of note: The words: "Thunderbirds created by Gerry Anderson" does NOT appear in the opening credits, which are a cringe-worthy set of images with an annoying voiceover.

There are several reasons for this, chief of which is Gerry Anderson's backing out at the last moment of any kind of endorsement of the project. And one of the film's worst failings is an abominable techno-backed version of the Thunderbirds overture. The original music, though a bit cheesy is dramatic, melodic and absolutely iconic. Hans Zimmer's music gives only moments of drama and majesty to this movie.

There's always the possibility of an unwelcome remake that lurks unseen like a menacing shark, out in the dark waters of our pop culture. And we Thunderbirds fans could sense that predator out there; just waiting for the right moment to strike. Too dramatic? Perhaps. But at least Jonathan Frakes didn't ruin my childhood.

Thunderbirds: The Movie was not a disappointment, because THAT would imply we didn't KNOW disappointment was coming.