I simply ADORE this movie!  The fight that begins the film is what I label the perfect fight.  Holly is upset, Gerry doesn't know why, they get into an argument where both sides are coming from completely different directions with Gerry attempting to subvert Holly's anger with humor.  Which, of course as most women know, only makes her more upset.  They end up slamming doors then re-emerging to affirm how much they love each other and acknowledge the problems they have.  The most shocking part of the movie is in the next scene where Holly, her mother, sister, and friends are all at Gerry's wake.

3 of my friends went with me to see this movie on New Year's Day and we all cried through the whole film.  When we walked out of the theatre, we had plans to immediately drive to the airport and book tickets for Ireland.

First of all, being the red-blooded female that I am, Gerard Butler's character Gerry and his charming Irish accent and wonderful, sexy, sweet personality is enough to keep me interested for the 2 hours this film takes.  Second, being a fan of Grey's Anatomy, I couldn't help loving the naked rear view of Jeffrey Dean Morgan and his own charming Irish character.

But mostly what is to be loved about this film is the love Gerry had for Holly, so strong and so pure that, knowing he would die, he crafted a plan to keep Holly's life going for a year until she was able to move on on her own.  Unselfish, everlasting love.  Every couple fights, and none of them are perfect, every relationship has stresses and issues.  But, as the movie reveals, they were in love from the moment they set eyes on each other.  A love that never ended after they found the kiss that would "end the world as they knew it forever."  A love that wanted her to find love again and tried to make her view herself through his eyes - not seeing her flaws but the reasons for his devotion and why he wanted her life to be full for as long as she continued to be alive.

And, it's a comfort to know we don't lose Gerard Butler but continue to see clips of him throughout the film - Holly's memories played across the screen as she tries to move on with a life she felt hadn't started yet and now no longer includes the man she kept trying to start it with.

I enjoyed the acting as well.  I think Hilary Swank was very believable and her supporting cast of characters were dynamic enough to give the film the impression of a real life and what happens as lives move on and tragedies happen.  The plot was engaging throughout - I found myself anticipating Gerry's letters just as much as Holly and grieving along with her just as though I had lost my perfect, caring, charismatic soulmate too.

And I felt hope.  So many movies come along telling us stories of soulmates and second chances and following our hearts.  Some may call it clich&eacute;d and overdone to the point of exhaustion.  But I say there are real-life examples of these fairytale movies, and exemplary examples such as P.S. I Love You need to be made to remind us of the hopes and emotions we experience in our everyday lives - hopes that shouldn't be abandoned because we are told to be "realistic" and settle for something less than we deserve.  True happiness is to be achieved by continuing our dreams, there is a reason why different people are drawn to different things.  These types of movies - disgustingly called "Chick flicks" - don't bring false hope, they bring out what we already feel inside and keep us motivated for the time it takes for us to figure out and pursue what we need in our lives.

This movie is sad, heartbreaking at points, but also humerous, engaging, sexy, romantic, hopeful, and realistic!  Holly can be stubborn, awkward, shy, dorky - and she's all the more human for the range of emotions and setbacks she goes through.  It's a movie of growth not just for Holly but for her family and friends as well.  People would do well to watch not for a gush of sentimentality and cathartic tears, but as a reminder of our flaws, our feelings and our dreams.

Oh, and the music is GREAT!  I bought the soundtrack just for "Love You Till the End" by the Pogues and ended up loving several other songs.  The Irish "If I Leave this World Alive" and the first track "Everything We Had" AND the last track "My Sweet Song" are lovely!  I have some new favorite music to compliment my classic 60's and 70's songs, alternative, Indie, rock, selective pop, etc.