I wish to firstly say that I am a huge fan of war films of just about all makes and styles, even if they take extreme liberties with the actual events that transpired.  And I am one who actually does enjoy some foreign films, though personally I will live with subtitles over dubbing, especially if you throw in some of the god-awful dubbers out there.  Now that that bunch of crap is out of the way, this movie is the worst war movie I have seen since The Thin Red Line.
To call this movie unoriginal is being very nice to this Russian rip-off.  Did you like Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, or any other war films in the past 100 years? Then you will love this if you like those movies done on a smaller budget with a lot less capable actors.  I wouldn't harp on this being a complete and utter hack in terms of stealing from other movies (Good lord knows I like some good old exploitation from time to time) but this movie is completely unashamed with how much it steals from other movies.  Like there is the whole drill sergeant who does his best Gunnery Sergeant Hartman impersonation, and of course there is the bunch of soldiers who hate him for no reason except he is tough, and that just sticks in my craw.  No, I have not went through boot camp, but still, the man does not do anything except be a little bit tough, and truly that gives no reason to be angered at him for everything it seems.  And then there is the few, note really few, action scenes that exist solely at the end of the movie feel totally unrehearsed thanks to the fact that there is no one seemingly being shot, killed wounded or anything.  Seriously, there are lines of men charging head long into gunfire, no one seemingly getting hurt in any real way.  This movie really is annoying with that, and no saying it was on a low budget should excuse it or anything like that is ludicrous because if you take a movie say like Godzilla: Final Wars which had a smaller budget, it still was enjoyable because it was it's own thing, not a rip of everything that is American.  There is just no excuse for anything like that.
Now, to comment on the movie in terms of anything like acting, it is all blah at best, and horrid at worst.  Most of the actors seem like they have nothing better on their mind except wondering where the paycheck is, and the "main" character (it is really hard to follow who is the lead, which would be fine if one or two of these guys didn't look the same and sound the same) is about as enjoyable as fresh bird poo on a freshly waxed car.  Seriously, these people are not memorable in any way, they might as well be called Soldier 1,2,3 and so forth and you would notice no difference in terms of story or development.  Oh, and to touch on the biggest issue that bugs me (along with Black Hawk Down) this movie seriously deviates away from the actual events by a large margin, making it seem that most of these character you won't care about die, when it reality only 2 soldiers died.  Really, why did this movie try to dramatize this battle in such a way, especially considering this was Soviet Russia's Vietnam, and considering you would figure Russians would have treated their history better.  Ok, rant over when it comes to history.
To sum this horrid movie up, it is slow and oddly paced to the point that counting hairs on my arm became more interesting of a prospect.  And to top it all off, the actors are forgettable, the story is pointless, and just makes you wish that there was something better on, like I don't know, maybe We Were Soldiers.