I saw this first in 1997 on the Kraft something-something (CBS).  The very first part looked so refreshing that I threw in a tape and have absolutely been gone on it ever since.  I had read about the newly discovered manuscript and book publication at an earlier time.  I bought several copies of the book and gave them out as gifts to friends and relatives.  Everyone who has watched it with me has loved it.  My brother, in from Knoxville once, and after watching the usual popular movies at that time, was, up to that point fairly unimpressed.  I decided to put it in.  He watched and even though he had not even commented on any of the others, he looked at me after the end credits then lights on, and said, "That was a good one."  You have to know my understated Economics Professor-of-a brother to know how funny that comment was and how it pleased me.  The filmed presentation and its screenplay are more flowing, integrated and related to a self-contained start-to-finish story than is the actual book. The scene where Edith is with her ailing uncle, her innocence, her lack of guile or ability to deceive, contrive or lie, is unbelievably attractive in character and essence.  Edith is so transparently good and kind and always helping others without taking credit this story is about the rewards of that goodness and that sweetness.  There are hints from the beginning that are noticed after the fact, about where the relationships lie and why certain people do what they do and act the way they do.  How could the entire story be so simple and yet enchanting enough to cause me to think of it all the time.  When Edith first meets Percy by the horse, spilling her apples and yet touching his scratched face with her handkerchief I loved the way the directors let us know the magic was on.  When Percy comes in the house for the first time and meets her Edith cannot hide her bright-eyed, innocent crush and that she has met him already.  Her facial expressions are uniquely well done as she hides behind the curtain.  You can see that she is jealous already, even though she knows he is not there for her nor could there be a crossing of social barriers, yet he was hers, she thought. How many movies are there where one kiss, just one kiss is so dramatic?
With all the thrills, spills and chills in modern movies, needed to even keep an audience awake, is this not a gem for those of us who are just plain in love with love?