This show is like putting Twin Peaks, the Stand, Picket Fences and Omen in a blender. Each episode is almost a story in it's own. The evil Sheriff Lucas Buck (Gary Cole) is evil incarnate, while his bastard son Caleb Temple (Lucas Black of Sling Blade) has to choose between him and his murdered sister Merilyn (Sarah Paulson), a ghost of good or a angel. It is the story of the struggle of good and evil within all of us, and it also shows that not everything is completely black or white, yet there is individuals more evil than good and vice versa, but even the bad have a little good in them. The show deals in folklore, myth, the supernatural, and it is very dark. Most people will not like this show as evidenced by it's cancellation. To many the last episode will be a major let down, no resolution but that wasn't the creator of the shows fault, it was the network CBS that canceled it not only that, when it was shown on TV it was constantly shuffled around and shown out of order with episodes that weren't even aired that even confused me as a viewer. They had plans to do another season that is why it seems there is no closure, one can only imagine what could've happened as endless fan fiction web sites have shown. There is commentary from the show's creator which is a bit lack luster and the episodes are out of order like on TV. The show seemed to come on at a time that Twin Peaks was going out on a low ebb but still influential and X Files the bastard child of the just mentioned show was on the rise, it seemed they tried to capitalize on the "weird show" craze. In my opinion they did a pretty good job of it, but they let the show die too early of a death and were very unfair in the way the treated it, it was as if they wanted the show too die. Too many networks back then and now let shows die instead of trying to find it a audience and let it grow, one season is not enough. If you like the otherworldly and weird this show is right up your alley but if your like the majority of Americans, this show will not appeal to you, you have to have imagination which most people lack. Aside from a ill advised character change out I think was out of their control, this show is a keeper and like Carnivale it makes you wish they had done more and if the show had been allowed to grow what potential it would've reached. Highly recommended for the imaginative, not recommended for the squeamish or happy ending Disney set.