"Boxing Helena" is a mediocre effort from Jennifer Chambers Lynch, a close relative to David Lynch ("Blue Velvet", "Wild at Heart"). It stars Julian Sands as the prestigious, though cowardly, Dr. Nick Cavanaugh. His mother just passed away, and he returns to his mansion. Meanwhile, he sees Helena (Sherilyn Fenn), a woman he used to date. Blinded by lust, he continues to pursue her. One night, he spies on her whilst taking a jog on the street. But after seeing her make love to Ray (Bill Paxton), his reaction is primarily disgust. He soon devises an elaborate party at which Helena and his friends are invited. Helena spurns Nick, and catches the eye of Russell, one of Nick's friends. Helena leaves the party with Russell, much to Nick's chagrin. On the next day, Helena is leaving for Mexico. However, it's discovered she left her purse at Nick's house. The inevitable happens. She's lured back into his house. He tries to seduce her, but she rejects him. Then a tragic accident ensues, leaving her bedridden. To go into further detail into the plot would possibly mean spoiling a relatively surprising ending. The movie exists mostly for its graphic sexual content. It was initially given an NC-17 rating by the MPAA, and deservedly so. It was perhaps the most controversial film of 1993. It was released just a year after "Basic Instinct", which director Paul Verhoeven had to recut several times before getting an acceptable R rating. Graphic content aside, the film became notorious for Kim Basinger's arguement that the film's sex was explicit without being artful. As a movie, "Boxing Helena" often fails to deliver. It's plot is unrealisitic, and its dialogue is especially laughable. Sherilyn Fenn's Helena is portrayed as a super-bitchy temptress, while Julian Sand's Nick Cavanaugh is seen as an immoral coward. While backed by a magnificent supporting cast, including Bill Paxton as the loutish Ray, Art Garfunkel as Cavanaugh's sympathetic friend Lawrence, and aided by a soundtrack featuring such songs as Tears for Fears' "Woman in Chains", "Boxing Helena" fails on almost all critical levels.