Have you ever been watching a superhero movie (animated or otherwise) and noticed that the hero's or villain's skills and abilities seem to wax and wane for "dramatic" purposes from one moment to the next?  Have you ever noticed that fight scenes tend to just be a bunch of chasing and punching?  This movie avoids both of these all-too-common (especially for animation) pitfalls in a big way.  Throughout this film, you never get the sense that anybody forgot about any of their powers right when it would be most useful, or that a weaker character was somehow evenly matched with a stronger one because the plot required it.  In fact, on the one occasion where you might be tempted to think such a thing is happening, one of the characters specifically comments about the mismatch.  Moreover, as these super characters fight each other, the combat rarely devolves into the tired punch-fests we see so frequently in animated films.  Instead, the fights feature choreography of great sophistication.  For instance, there is a scene where Wonder Woman intercepts a strike from someone wielding a ball-and-chain-type weapon.  Instead of merely grabbing it as you might expect, she knocks the ball to the ground, quickly loops the chain around her leg, and uses the leverage to unbalance the attacker.  The combat effect is the same as if she had grabbed it, but this is much more satisfying to watch.  In terms of fight scenes, this movie does not strike a wrong note.

Stylistically, I also found the movie satisfying.  This movie retains more of the dramatic perspectives and mood-enhancing shadowing typically found only in the printed comics.  I am thinking in particular of a shot of Superman's face as he is descended upon by a pack of some kind of creature on Apokolips; it was as though a panel had been lifted straight from a graphic novel.

Now, this movie is not perfect.  The storyline is not particularly cerebral, and the characters are fairly one-dimensional.  You will not be wondering where the next twist in the plot will take you or debating the character's motivations, nor will you ever have any doubt what will ultimately happen with Supergirl's character from the moment she first appears.  On top of that, Supergirl's character is a bit bland bordering on unlikable.  Note that I have not read the comic on which this movie is based, so I have no idea how faithful it is to that; I am hoping that the comic does not contain the painfully corny "introducing Supergirl" scene near the end of this film.  Character and plot issues aside, the voice acting was good on all counts.  I am a particular fan of Conroy and Daly, so I enjoyed having them in this movie (and was disappointed that Daly will not be voicing Superman in the next film).  Summer Glau was good as well as Supergirl.

To sum up, this is an action movie as opposed to a drama, and viewed in that way it is very satisfying.  I own all of the recent Superman, Batman, and JLA movies, and this is the only one I am planning to watch for a second time any time soon.  Definitely worth owning!