Note: This review contains SPOILERS. "Gun Crazy" begins with an extended prologue that sets up young Bart (Russ Tamblyn) as a budding sociopath obsessed with guns, though not with killing. It shows Bart's small town community attempting to struggle with what to do about the troubled young boy. While Bart's sister and best friends testify on his behalf, the judge, unconvinced of his harmlessness, sentences him to reform school. A few years later, adult Bart (played by John Dall) having matriculated through reform school and the military, returns to his home town. His best friends take him to a carnival to celebrate. There, Bart is immediately smitten by the female sharpshooter, Annie Laurie Starr (Peggy Cummins).

From the first moment Cummins, a beautiful girl with strangely off-center, dead eyes, appears on camera, I thought, "She's a psychopath." Her first action is to fire her guns directly at Bart. (The guns are loaded with blanks.) This certainly foreshadows the deadly effect she is destined to have on Bart. Bart joins the carnival, and the two of them soon run off to get married (though Annie Laurie's boss, hinting at her responsbility for a murder, attempts to use blackmail to prevent her going).

There follows a sequence showing the young lovers honeymooning and then gambling away their small savings. During this "middle sequence" Annie Laurie, who has vowed to "attempt to be good" even looks softer and more feminine, less crazed. But, as soon as the money runs out she begins to pressure Bart to commit armed robbery. Bart's scruples can not ultimately compete with his lust for Annie Laurie, and he agrees, though he never shoots any of their victims. In the final portion of the film, Annie Laurie's full-blown psychosis emerges. She begins to shoot their victims, claiming to Bart that she is afraid, while the more natural conclusion is that she kills for the thrill of it. In the film's startling climax, Bart finally uses his gun to kill.

This film is a classic noir which shows, not doomed love, but the inevitable result of really bad choices. To me, it is an exploration of the psychology of the sociopath, running the gamut from the sympathetic Bart to the monstrous, yet somehow pathetically touching, Annie Laurie Starr.