Not too many movies freek me out. The Excorcist and the Shining did it for me I thought. But this did it for me again. I was sho cked this movie was not given a "R" rating. I have seen other horror flicks that are rated R and are really not that bad. It's so scary with very little gore and the music is scary too. The perfect combination for a good movie.

This movie is based on the Japanese movie The Ringu which came out in 1998 in Japan. It's about a cursed video tape that after you watch it you get a phone call with a chilling voice saying " 7 days". Naomi Watts plays a Seattle based reporter named Rachael. She has to solve the mystery of the tape after an unexplained death occurs. She is skeptical at first about a tape floating around that kills people.  But after hearing more about the tape and learning of other coinciding mysterious deaths; she finally decides to investigate and watch the tape. While watching the tape she slowly starts to learn that its not a hoax . She also receives chilling phone call after viewing it. Rachael now has 7 days to solve the mystery or she is dead too. The video tape itself is eerie as hell with some very disturbing images. The images give clues that we see during the whole movie which Rachael and Noah research and try to painstakingly figure out.

Whoever made the tape draws Rachael more into the tape to the point where she starts to hallucinate, physcially feel things related to the tape, scribling something on a piece of paper making a horse go crazy, and nose bleeds. The tape is somehow using Rachael to let her know how this person felt physcially. Racheal is also mentally drawn into the tape in 2 scenes. Noah is also drawn into the tape after he watches it and only experiences nose bleeds.  Aiden finally watches the tape too and experiences nose bleeds and hallucinations from which something mysteriously ends up on both his wrists. After seeing this Rachael does everything she can to save her son.

The Seatle setting is very rainy and chilly so it makes it even scary and the Racheal's son Aiden ( David Dorfman) is a little freeky to and seems to know what's going on, what will happen, or what has happened. He talks about someone he seems to know but how he knows this person is really interresting. He reminds me of the little kid Danny from The Shining. Does he have some special connection to the tape which remains to be asked. The movie is pretty interesting though and keeps you guessing till the very end. The music throughout the whole movie is well composed and it does wonders to some of the scenes throughout. Even then it's hard to figure out unless you watch it again. Place close attention to the film because many scenes relate back to the tape and it will help you understand it better. This is also very pyschological too. Its just to great to describe. I would not considered it your typical horror movie because the elements are different than the regular slasher flicks we see these days. I highly recommend it!!!! You will be so scared!! There is also an extra edition on this DVD which have more scary scenes that were edited from the original and give more clues. A definate added bonus!!