Those of us who were old enough remember the headlines about AIDS in the 1980's.  I remember the confusion about the blood supply, that this was a "gay" disease, that it could be contracted through common household contact, the controversy over safe sex, and when Rock Hudson's diagnosis was announced, and when he died.

The facts about AIDS that we take for granted now - that it is not a "gay disease", that it is a virus, that safe sex can prevent its spread - were not seen as obvious facts in the early and mid 1980's.

"And the Band Played On" is the story behind the headlines, rumors and misinformation of that time.

When I say behind the headlines, I mean the activities most Americans were oblivious to - the small number of health professionals realizing in 1980-1981 that people were dying of seemingly suppressed immune systems; the realization in the gay community that their members were becoming ill; and the search by the CDC to study the disease in terms of who was becoming sick, how the disease progressed, the determination that it was a virus, and plotting its course and victims.

The movie is extremely well-done and well-acted.  While much of the book was left out of the movie (i.e., the activities of the gay community in NYC), I think this had to be done so that this could be a movie and not a mini-series.

As with the book, periodically through the movie the "Butcher's Bill" metrics are displayed ... for this date in 1984, so many cases have been diagnosed in the U.S.  For the same date, so many people have died in the U.S.

I watched this movie's premier on HBO.  Later, when I met my husband, we came across it on HBO and watched it.  He was very favorably impressed by the movie, and was struck by the periodic displays of the "Butcher's Bill".  He's told his teenage son and daughter about it, we purchased it, and we've all watched it together.

I highly recommend this movie.  Even more highly, I recommend the book.  It is one of the best works of nonfiction I've read.