The majority of the blame for what's wrong with The Banger Sisters goes to director Bob Dolman's screenplay.  Any interesting concepts are destroyed by his need for  "You see, Timmy" moments.
(In 1994's Speechless, Michael Keaton tells Geena Davis speeches should have a moral.  He refers to the last minutes of the TV show Lassie, when the moral for all that came before in the episode would be recapped with a statement beginning, "You see, Timmy . . .")
Whatever happened to just being a funny film?  Some Like It Hot holds up because it's funny.  Tootsie, a variation on Some Like It Hot, holds up only in places due to the need to moralize and punish the audience for the enjoyment they've had prior to the conclusion.  If Billy Wilder had written the script for Tootsie (or maybe if Elaine May had doctored the ending), following Dorothy Michaels unmasking we wouldn't suffer through scene after scene of Dustin Hoffman moping --  Jessica Lange would have chased Hoffman down, told him he was full of it in a humorous manner and then they could have walked off into the sunset (same ending, but without the moralizing).
The Banger Sisters' script could have used a Wilder or a May to save us from the l-o-n-g graduation speech that shows us,  "Hey, like, what Goldie & Susan did was right, you see, 'coz, like, we all, like, need to stand up for ourselves, you know?"  Yeah, we know.
We got that point long before the movie gets turned over to Sarandon's eldest daughter and her graduation.  We don't need a speech, we need a laugh but once we hit the third act, there aren't many.  Yet there are plenty of moral lessons -- the graduation speech of course, but also Goldie's grave yard lecture.  This lecture is  not only boring and laugh-free, but also shrill as well.  While Goldie may be playing a jaded groupie/hippie love child, with emphasis on "jaded," the speech she makes has little to do with the sixties philosophies of live and let live -- it more of a "tough love" lecture.
The first two acts get by on the strength of anticipation.  You keep waiting for the script to kick into gear, for the film to take off.  It never does.  It's a testament to Sarandon and, in spots, Goldie that you like as much of the film as you do.
The Banger Sisters is a comedy and the hopes of a funny Goldie Hawn film got me into the theater for this film.  (The talent of Sarandon is the reason I bought the DVD.)
That said, print critics of the film referred to it as a "chic flick."  How is this a "chick flick"?
Do women in the audience respond to the men in this film?
There's something zany, in a whimsical way, of Goldie and Geoffrey Rush's characters merging at the end, I suppose.  But Sarandon's husband, played by Robin Thomas, does that character delight women in any way?  And would women cast either Rush or Thomas in a fantasy of their own?
(And do they fantasize about wearing hideous clothes like the red jacket that dwarfs Goldie in the gas station scenes or Sarandon's big moment outfit that finds Sarandon shoved into tacky, unflattering clothes that no groupie would wear?)
"Chic flick" is a dismissive, sexist put down of any film that requires the female(s) to do anything more than root for the leading man from the sidelines.  Let's all try to stop using that term.
Despite all that's wrong with the film, Sarandon really is excellent.  It's good to see her step away from the "first lady of film" roles (Marmie in Little Women, the nun in Dead Man Walking, etc.) and play a character that's messy and doesn't have all the answers.  The script isn't up to the quality of Thelma & Louise or Bull Durham, but as in Witches of Eastwick, she creates something out of nothing.
Goldie isn't so fortunate.  Work in films like Death Becomes Her and First Wives Club made one think she really did have something to contribute, something to say, in further roles -- that Goldie Hawn was still needed in Hollywood.  This film calls that belief into question.  It's not that she's backsliding (if she achieved even a fraction of the zaniness of Protocol, that might have saved her performance), it's that she just doesn't seem to have the instincts.
She doesn't seem to know who her character Suzette is from one scene to the next.  That's most obvious by  the shrillness at the grave yard, but it's there throughout.  Is Suzette a cold hearted manipulator, is she jaded, what is she!  She's one thing in one scene, and something completely different in the other.  If, for instance, Suzette sees nursing the drugged out elder daughter of Lavinna's as a way to get back into Lavinna's life, that's fine -- it could even be funny.  But why play it that way one moment and the next act as though it never happened?  I've never seen Goldie so erratic onscreen.  It can't be blamed on the script, it's her performance.  She's played con artists before (best in Housesitter) so if that's how she saw Suzette, that's fine -- just carry it through.
The audience wants to be on her side.  It's hard not to love Goldie in anything.  (She was the saving grace of Town & Country, for instance.)  But in this film, instead of grinning with delight, you're left shaking your head in confusion -- wondering what exactly she's trying to do.  (If it's not her worst performance, that's only because she's already made Lovers & Liars.)
The extras are worth noting only because so few DVDs seem to contain any extras lately.  Check out Dolman's commentary which will make you appreciate the opening scenes more.  The bloopers are okay and the HBO special makes the film seem better than it is.