This is a tale of a desperate, religious man whose entire life falls apart when his wife (Liv Tyler) leaves him for a drug lord (Kevin Bacon) who helps her reawaken her drug addictions. In order to deal with it all he puts on a superhero costume, calls himself The Crimson Bolt and goes around beating on people with a wrench. He even designs some gadgets but most of them suck. He picks up a bored young girl sidekick who is socially awkward and borderline deranged as she laughs over dead people. In fact, the hero restrains the sidekick from offing people as they go along in the tale which is interesting to see in action. But the overall thrust is upon the hero exposing the badness of the drug lord and winning his wife back. There are some great moments in here and some of them are even better if you get the comic book superhero subculture but it isn't necessary to enjoy it. Ellen Page is brilliant as the nerdy, deranged sidekick and Rainn Wilson does a good job playing a socially awkward somewhat "do the right thing" type of superhero with narrow rules. People may be torn in sympathizing or despising the hero as he goes from depressed to violent maniac. In fact, this film does a very good job of tearing your emotions back and forth, especially in scenes that jump from sad to hilarious. In essence this is about a deluded man seeking self discovery who chooses to use a superhero costume to do it and explores the issues of what is a superhero as well as what are the boundaries of a superhero? People who abhor violence should avoid this film. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus to A minus; STORY/PLOTTING: B; ADDS SOMETHING TO THE SUPER HERO COMIC BOOK GENRE SUBCULTURE: B to B plus; DARK HUMOR: B to B plus BEST LINES: "Shut up, Crime!" "People look stupid when they cry." "I thought it was me at the time, that I was the chosen one. But it was Sarah, all along. And that's why I needed to save her.  She needed to finish school, to study anthropology, because Sarah knows something about people. She needed to go back to her meetings, where she had insights that struck others uniquely. And sometimes she needed to have nightmares of those ugly times at Jacques' ranch. Because a kind man, a man who was good and didn't know it, needed to learn how to comfort someone. And maybe, most of all Sarah needed to have Patrick, and Trevor, and Laura, and Joy. Four children who probably wouldn't be at all if Libby and I hadn't gone to Jacques' ranch that night. Maybe, if all of us are lucky, they're the ones who are gonna change the world. And me? Well I got that rabbit after all. That, and something much more.