First, let me say that I, unlike pretty much all the previous reviewers, have not watch the first film <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000TGJ80I">Underworld (Unrated) [Blu-ray</a>]. Although I like these types of films I was unimpressed with the trailers for it when it first was released back in 2003 so just never got around to viewing the movie. After watching this sequel you can bet I will watch it the first chance I get. This is an outstanding film that brings not only non-stop action but provides a strong story coupled with great acting.

The Amazon review states that the script is "...more confusing than it needs to be, with too many characters and not enough storytelling detail to flesh them all out." Not true. From both the prologue and the narration of the main character Selene I got up to speed quickly and was able to understand what led to the feud between Vampires & Lycans (Werewolves). The main characters were wonderfully developed, making it easy to understand the motivation of each. And the story was very linear, taking us from past to present to future. This sequel actually is unique in that it could stand alone, you really don't need to watch the first film to enjoy this one. Not many sequels can say that.

There are many things to like here. As I mentioned earlier, the charater development is great. The acting of all is wonderful, with possibly Kate Beckinsale over acting just a bit at the beginning. But as the film hits it's stride so does her performance. The special effects are above average. And the music score hits the nail right on the head as each piece matches the mood or action of the scene perfectly. It's really nice to view a film where the soundtrack blends with the movie, not overpowers it.

While there are many scenes that one could point at that shows the quality of the film, to me one stand above all others. The "love scene" between the Selene & Michael characters easily could have been exploitive and gratuitous but instead we are treated to a very sensual, slow-paced scene without ANY full-frontal nudity. It was a great scene that contrasted well with the fast-pace action of the rest of the movie.

I would highly recommend this to anyone into action and/or horror flicks. High quality, great action, enough gore to satisfy most, and most importantly, a great plot. They also left a small window open for a third film, which I would love to see. Until then, I'll go back and watch the first film and see what I missed.