Kevin McAllister is back and alone once again in Home Alone 2: Lost In New York. In the second installment of the home alone movies, Kevin finds himself in a similiar situation with a twist. He has gotten lost in the airport on the way to christmas in florida, and ends up in New York City with all of the families' money and credit cards. Most young kids would panic, but Kevin takes advantage of the situation, going on a spending spree all around New York City, until he runs into a couple of old friends. Fresh out of Prison, Marv and Harry are up their old scheme when they come across the little kid who sent them to jail. Looking for revenge, Kevin must once again defend himself from the wet bandits.

This movie is very closely related to the first. The general plot is the same in both movies, Kevin is stranded away from his family at christmas time and must defend his house from Marv and Harry the criminals. Many of the tricks kevin uses to keep his distance from the theives are repeated from the original movie, and sometimes can be repetitive. The movie has its own twists and the action is hilarious throughout the movie, much like the first. The ending is almost identical to the first, exciting and heartwarming.

The new setting gives kevin a whole new world of toys to play with. The original movie gave Kevin familiar surroundings and a lot to work with, but stranded at his Aunt and Uncle's house in New York is a bit different. Kevin is forced to make do with what he can find, and it makes for some entertaingig action. New York City instead of a hometown is also a big change, and Kevin reacts differently in a unfamiliar city. The plot is able to stay remarkably the same in the two movies and play out so differently in each to the audience.

The characters in each movie are the same, yet different. THe main characters are all the same. The family, Marv and Harry and Kevin are all the same from the first movie. This movie allows for a few more characters to be thrown into the mix, including a woman who lives in Central Park, and the Hotel Desk Manager. The interesting people Kevin meets plays a vital role in the attention of the audience, because the humor carries the film. Everyone kevin crosses paths with in the movie has an impact on his sucess in the big city.

Overall the sequel did live up to the original. The first movie was great, but this one had some magic of its own. The New York setting is a perfect backdrop to the action and humor that plays out in this christmas classic. Watch them together or separate and they are still both fun and enjoyable movies for the whole family.