"Bringing Out the Dead" is an exhausting, hyperactive film about a paramedic's three blood-soaked nights Hell's Kitchen--sirens ring through the city's dead air with a throbbing, kinetic energy like the movie itself  (which pulsates with life), a Martin Scorsese masterpiece of torment &amp;  redemption photographed passionately in muted reds and bright shinning  white tones.
The streets are crammed with half-dead souls that peer up at  our sapped hero with sick, sad, sinister eyes as he scurries under  streetlamp light searching out the dead. Though the streets are  occasionally quiet you can sense another drug overdose or homicide is right  around the corner. Frank spends these still moments in front of the  hospital--"Perpetual Misery" as the paramedics call it--talking  with Mary, a druggie and daughter of an earlier heart attack victim,  managing weary smiles and easy conversation over coffee. Mostly he's  rushing in ambulances through the numbing nights at breakneck speeds to the  next situation. His sanity deteriorates throughout the picture until he's  seeing the ghostly face of a young girl called Rose on every corner, behind  the mask of every monster.
Frank has the somnolent, heavy eyes of an  insomniac. He looks ready to snap or collapse at any moment and his  co-pilots are of no help to him--they offer him no sanctuary, no place of  rest. The first, Larry played by John Goodman is more concerned about  what's for dinner than he is with any patient. He's like a taxi driver who  ignores the drunk couple having sex in the backseat of his cab. Then  there's Marcus (Ving Rhames at his best &amp; most vibrant), a  gospel-preaching, cigar-chewing, Motown-smooth brother who, in one of the  best and more humorous sequences turns an overdose into a  resurrection--proof of the Lord's power. On the 3rd day (and by now Frank's  hallucinations are driving him mad), he rides along with Walls (Tom  Sizemore), who is a real nut job &amp; gets his pleasure in much the same  way as the characters in "Fight Club" get theirs--beating people  senseless and breaking things.
Meanwhile there is a general hysteria  throughout the entire movie: --the emergency room is constantly crowded  with sufferers, the night oozes blood &amp; street corner radicals shout  their words at the dead--babies are born into existence while other less  fortunate people suffer heart attacks in homeless tunnels. Frank observes  it all, plunging himself into the Hell waters hoping to cleanse his  conscious and receive pardon from his torment. He seems to be doomed and  made to drift in and out of his ghost dreams--
The ghost Rose asks,  "Why did you kill me, Frank?" We learn she died on the sidewalk  in the snow--Frank couldn't save her. He looks worse &amp; worse. At one  point he finds himself at the Oasis, a drug lord's city high-rise apartment  that's a haven for the weary hallway-shuffling sleepwalkers like Frank. He  goes there to help Mary one evening and instead ends up swallowing a  sedative of some sort offered to him by Cy (Cliff Curtis, "Three  Kings"), and has a vision of himself literally bringing out the dead  from beneath the concrete which made me think: "All those lost souls  ... Rabbits in your headlights."
Frank's obsession pries at his  mind, he, like the 19th Century author Gogol is as near to death and  madness as a human being can come without losing it--Gogol eventually did  lose it and died. Frank seeks shelter from his thoughts in the company of  Mary--with her there's a tired gleam left in his eyes. With him, she has  someone to trust and someone that'll listen to her fears. Their souls seem  to be locking hands without their knowing it. They need each other the same  as John C. Reilly and Melora Walters need each other in  "Magnolia."
When I saw "Bringing Out the Dead" for  the first time in theaters I was so mentally &amp; emotionally drained I  couldn't gather my thoughts to speak until much later, in the car, where I  rolled down the window in the backseat and let the cool night breeze blow  in my face and took long deep breaths of the icy air. The words of a song  kept playing in my mind:
"I got the will to drive myself  sleepless"
Like Jack, the narrator of "Fight Club," Frank  cannot sleep. The difference is, while Jack quells his pains by leaching  off the suffering of others so he can rest at ease (at one point he even  says, "babies don't sleep this good."), Frank suffers because of  it. In one scene he delivers a stillborn baby in a crack house--Marcus  delivers a healthy baby boy. Roger Ebert made similar comparisons in his  review which I read when the movie opened. Seeing it for the second time at  home I was surprised at the number of ways you could contrast the two  films.
The creators of the film, Martin Scorsese &amp; writer Paul  Schrader have made a tireless and religious film about human anguish and  the coffee-nerved nights of a Manhattan ambulance driver.
Reading my book  tonight, I came across this line:
"He who, by causing pain to  others, wishes to obtain pleasure for himself, he, entangled in the bonds  of hatred, will never be free from hatred."
Frank's job is never  done, even after the movie ends Frank will continue to battle his demons,  but for a perfectly serene and beautiful moment and if only for fifteen  minutes he sleeps "the sleep of the justified."