I recently saw this film on Bravo, and after viewing it immediately went online to Amazon to see if it was availble on DVD; it was, and I ordered it.  I was only 10 years old when these events took place, and had only a vague recollection that something "bad" happened.  To see the complete and total ineffectiveness and incompetence exhibited by the Germans in dealing with this crisis would be almost laughable if it hadn't produced such catastrophic and appalling results.  I realize that at the time we in the west were relatively "newcomers" to terrorism and terrorist activities, but we were hardly babes in the woods.  The idea that the Germans would refuse Israeli assistance when they had absolutely no idea of how to deal with this type of situation strikes one as though it must have been driven by pure ego.  This film demonstrates in an unapologetic and unabashed way in microcosm what we are confronted with in the world today; emboldened Islamo-fascists who will demand 100% complete submission, surrender and conversion or your death.  There was no negotiating with these extremists back in 1972 and if anything the situation has deteriorated.  If there was a lesson that was learned from this tragedy it is that Germany formed GSG9, (their specialized anti-terrorist squad), as did many other western countries in the aftermath of this murderous catastrophe.  That is small comfort I suspect, though, to the families and loved ones who paid the ultimate price to teach us this lesson.  Golda Meir is quoted as having said "until they love their children, more than they hate us, we will not have peace".  Today, we all can utter this quote with equal applicability.

By the way, before anyone might be tempted allege that I am Jewish and merely spouting rhetoric I am a Catholic-American of French, Lithuanian, Czech descent.

One last question that I have maybe someone can help me with.  When I watched this film I began to wonder if the nation of Israel had participated in any olympic games since the summer of 1972, and I have not been able to find out the answer.  Thanks.