so many movies today struggle with the male bonding between 2 main characters and yet 4 completely different male leads in Rio Bravo make the buddy stuff natural, seamless, and hilarious.  I adore John Wayne's gruff, strong, brooding character, which he has patented like no other (Mel Gibson has to play psychotic to achieve even a whisper of what John Wayne embodies), but in this movie, Wayne smiles, a lot!!  It is very apparent that the entire cast enjoyed themselves immensely and although I wish I could have been somewhere in that jail myself, I will take second best, which is to watch this movie again and again.  As so many have already written, Walter Brennen easily steals every scene (even when he's away from the camera lens and it is just his voice).  That man has to be one of the greatest actors that has ever lived and if I could have only one example of his acting talent, this movie would be my choice.  He out-gruffs John Wayne at every turn and it is male-magic.  The duet between Dean Martin and Ricky Nelson could have been one of the cheesiest moments in movie history and yet it was pure inspiration.  The culminating of those two voices, was for me, a true high point of the movie, nicely underplayed to seem so natural, and Walter Brennen's school-boy enthusiasm to join in was another inspired moment.  And Wayne's facial expression; 'get out the back door' - Wayne also knew he was experiencing something rare -  FUN, FUN, FUN.  A John Wayne movie usually features one 'no-body' actor, that Wayne likes to give a career boost to and I would say it was Ricky Nelson (since Dean did have some experience).  Fortunately, Nelson excelled in this role as a naive-looking pretty boy that would have been laughed out of the west, except for one remarkable talent - which was possibly being the fastest gun in the west, combined with cool level-headed thinking (I would guess it was a tip-of-the hat to the main character in 'Shane', as both these men shared a similar physique: small, pretty, and not intimidating). Out of all the novice actors 'given a chance' by Wayne, Ricky is my surprise favorite.  My pick for worst would have been the 'whiny-voiced rhinestone cowboy' in True Grit. The combination of these actors/musicians and what they individually brought to this movie, including Angie Dickinson is engaging to say the least.  The very worst I can say about this movie is that Dean Martin (who I adore musically/comedic) really had a lot of tough moments to act out here and although he didn't excel, I would definitely give him a passing grade. This kind of ease of characters bonding naturally, bringing together drama, flair, and humor was in one other John Wayne movie too (that I highly recommend):  HATARI!!