I have copied some of Lawrance M. Bernabo's cogent review and edited it to my view:

The plot of this 85-minute black & white comedy has Bob Hope as Lawrence Lawrence (Larry), a radio star who has made his reputation as a muckraker. Fleeing from a murder in a hotel he mistakenly thinks he committed, he ends up in the trunk of Mary Carter (Paulette Goddard) who is on her way to Cuba, where she has inherited the haunted Black Island and its haunted Castillo Maldito. Once on the island, Mary runs into the charming Parada (Paul Lukas), her old friend Geoff Montgomery (Richard Carlson), and the surviving scheming Mederos twin (Anthony Quinn and Anthony Quinn). Meanwhile, at the castle awaiting Larry and Mary are the Mother Zombie (Virginia Brissac) and her giant zombie son (Noble Johnson). Larry and his trusted valet Alex (Willie Best) go ahead to the castle to make sure everything is safe for Mary, at which point wackiness ensues.

The biggest downside of this film is that it embraced black stereotypes throughout; however, you must consider that this was a product of 1940.  It is useful as an illustration of what society's expectations and treatment of blacks was during that period.  I bought this to show to my teen-age children who have no idea of what society was like in the 20th century much less before WWII; as well as, to show who Bob Hope was and his type of comedy.

My favorite one-liner/come-back of Hope's was in the scene where Mary, Larry and Geoff Montgomery are present and Larry asks Geoff what he knows about zombies.
Larry, "Maybe you know what a zombie is.
Geoff explains "When a person dies and is buried, it seems a certain voodoo priest who . . . who have the power to bring him back to life."
Mary, "How horrible."
Geoff, "It's worse than horrible because a zombie has no will of his own.  You see them sometimes walking around blindly, with dead eyes, following orders, not knowing what they do, not caring."
Larry, "You mean like Democrats?"

This is a light comedy written, produced and acted by products of the early 20th century with their view of the world.  If you are not so politically sensitive as to recoil from the lack of 21st century political correctness which evolved seven decades later, you can appreciate the talent and chemistry of Hope and Goddard.