There have been a handful of well-publicized scandals in the media over the past few years involving reporters making up key details in their stories. In 2003, Jayson Blair, a reporter for the New York Times, was caught plagiarizing and making up stories, and just a few months ago, producers at CBS were accused of and subsequently relieved of their jobs for embellishing the facts on a report about President Bush's service in the National Guard. In 1998, a similar state of affairs befell a young reporter at The New Republic, "The Inflight Magazine of Air Force One." Shattered Glass tells the story of Stephen Glass, a 24-year old reporter with said publication. Hayden Christianson, who most may know best as Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vadar in the Star Wars prequels, plays Glass. Peter Sarsgaard plays his foil and envious co-worker Chuck Lane, who never seems to have as juicy of a lead as Glass.

Shattered Glass presents a snapshot of what the competitive atmosphere is like working for a political magazine. Glass certainly feels this competition, but his motive for fabricating stories appears to be an uncontrollable need to lie with a touch of overwhelming ambition. The first plot twist occurs when The New Republic's beloved editor Michael Kelly (played by Hank Azaria), who has his staff's loyalty and supports Glass at the first sign he made up story details, is ousted and replaced by Lane.

In the post-Michael Kelly era, one of Glass's next ideas involves telling the story of a teenage computer geek who hacks his way into a software company and posts naked pictures of women and the salaries of its employees on their website for all the world to see. What makes the story newsworthy, Glass says, is that the software company then hires the kid as a security consultant in order to stop him.

Meanwhile, at Forbes.com, reporter Adam Penenberg (played by Steve Zahn) is investigating some of Glass's facts. A simple "google" search doesn't turn up the software company Glass has written about, which strikes Penenberg as odd. Forbes.com decides to write an article about the discrepancies in Glass's article, which further pressures New Republic editor Lane to get to the bottom of Glass's stories. Ultimately, it is revealed that out of 41 pieces Glass wrote for The New Republic, 27 were phony.

Christianson plays Glass as a likable, self-effacing, humble guy who remembers everyone's name and is eager to please. It is difficult to understand the pathology that compels Glass to create bogus stories, especially at such a highly-scrutinized level where his work is being read by not only his competition, but Congress people, other assorted political types, and, well, the President of the United States. What makes Shattered Glass interesting is that it shows the effort Glass goes through to make up even more deep, involved lies to cover his tracks. It would have taken less effort to do the real research in the first place than to create bogus backstories for his fake articles. But Christianson plays him so sympathetically that you just want to give him a hug and say it's okay. Lane as played by Sarsgaard is also appealing because you appreciate his professional skepticism and the fact that he gives Glass what he deserves--the boot.

While the Jayson Blair and CBS News scandals fade from memory, one begins to wonder how truly widespread these types of cases are. Because of the high-profile nature of The New Republic, the New York Times, and CBS, how skeptical should we be about our **local** media?

The DVD includes a 60 Minutes interview with Glass, which ironically, was the offender in the Bush-National Guard case.