Dirty Harry is, plain and simple, an outstanding film that is far deeper than its reputation.  Those who denounce Dirty Harry as a fascist are so far off the mark it is pathetic.  Because of his un-PC dialogue it is assumed he is a bigot.  Because he defends himself and others with a S&amp;W Model 29 .44 Magnum he is written off as a psychotic.  And so on.  As his hispanic partner points out, he is called "Dirty Harry" because he gets the worst assignments.  Only the most pitiful, mewling moral weakling would consider this film an advertisement for fascism.  It is an indictment of the weakening and -- far worse -- bureaucritization of law enforcement, of its growing concern with appearance over protecting the public.  And, of course, a great flick.
The film makes plain that while he describes his vulgar world in vulgar terms, he is actually above it.  We learn from the beginning of the film that his doctor, who he chats up with more warmth than his white bosses, is black.  Remember, in 1971 it was still commonplace to just write off blacks as "monkeys" or worse.  The idea of a black man being a doctor, period, was unusual... let alone a white man seeing him for medical care and considering him his equal.
It is cues like these that reveal the true heart of the picture.  So many soft-handed worryworts miss the point of the film because they do not understand the CONTEXT.  The film is full of signs that Dirty Harry is an egalitarian in a time (1971) where such a point of view was rarer than it is now.  Dirty Harry says the word "Spic" and a certain class of people are all aflutter, even as he embraces (insomuch as he embraces ANYTHING) his hispanic partner and his black doctor, and is enraged by the murder of a black, and so on ad infinitum.  Yet, of course, he is a racist and a fascist.  Idiotic.
But enough of that.  Dirty Harry is an outstanding combination of good acting, expert directing, action and suspense... as even most of its critics are forced to admit.  See this movie.