Whereas Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc, 4 years this film's senior, is obsessed with showing the audience through close-ups and inventive framing, Vampyr is a film possessed of the perverse knowledge that the camera's eye is capable of exclusion.  Understanding this, Dreyer is able to create the idea of terror by suggesting it, rather than evoking.  The result is a chilling work that may fall numb on Hollywood viewers.  
Vampyr is presumably a film produced under UFA, as was Dreyer's film Mikael.  This allows me to make parallels to Fritz Lang that might otherwise be stretched.  Primarily I speak of the pervasion of the death's head, a symbol found in two of Lang's earliest films:  Der Mude Tod and Die Nibelungen.  (The former, in turn, is likened to Dreyer's Leaves From Satan's Book by film theorist Tom Gunning.)  In Lang this is a mechanical figure of destiny which is fought against with the heart, and to some avail.  In Dreyer, it is a biological figure pitted against the heart, to similar ends.  Both Vampyr and Der Mude Tod see lovers together at their finales.  Lang is simply the more modern of the two, and Dreyer (to me) the more compelling.  
There are also the ambigious perceptions of women.  Both seem strongly influenced by Nietzsche's (nearly contemporary) idea that women are capable of much and rarely acheive it, falling victim, instead, to the vampire male.  Dreyer, of course, reverts to Goethe after exploiting this, and the problem is found to be feminine.  Lang refuses this, even in Metropolis.  (Again, Lang proves more modern.)
As a talkie this film shows its auteur's history as a silent film maker.  Sound is only used when necessary.  There are intertitles.  There's a bit where a character reads from a book and the passages he reads are shown as intertitles, which I really enjoy.
The unfortunate things are the subtitles - which are, as you've probably read, in a weird gothic font and take up half the screen with their Closed-Caption like backgrounds (intertitles also appear in this font - Germany gave up with the "gothic" type lettering during WW2 because it was so hard for non-natives to read.).  I'm not really sure how original the score is, either.  It seems as though the movie would be beyond belief without it, or with a more suited example (Einhorn's score for the Criterion Joan of Arc, for example).  And the picture quality is really poor, which can be expected.  But there are certain things which are strictly the fault of the production company.  For example, there are frames of the movie subtitled in other languages, presumably from previous releases used to produce this release.
Of Vampyr, Dreyer said:
"I wanted to create the daydream on film and wanted to show that horror is not a part of the things around us, but of our own subconscious mind."
What a remarkable job he did!  Lynch and Bergman, and a few dozen other names to which history has been more kind, owe a great deal to this film.