I'm not usually one to harp on the differences when a book is turned into a film.  The fact that the author of the books worked on the screenplay shows that perhaps he was able to make changes that were needed for a book to film translation. I was surprised at how many differences there were however but I guess on the flip side this kept things surprising, as the plot was not the same as the novels.  As others have said the movie will be very hard to follow if you haven't seen the first movie, Night Watch.

The Good

As in Night Watch the visuals are excellent. I especially liked the scenes at the Dark party near the end. There were a lot of frenetic scenes however. I'm a fan off the director's style but these scenes work best when contrasted with slower paced sequences. When there is a constant barrage of these action scenes it film becomes monotonous and tiring. Night Watch seems almost calm compared to the amount of active scenes in Day Watch. It felt like the director had to top himself from the effects in the previous film. I would have traded many of these sequences for more focus on the plot and characterization.

The acting was well done, many of the characters have different motivations but there personalities were interesting. The character of Zabulon received a much more fleshed out role in the film.

The Bad

The script was frankly a mess. The books are difficult to translate to film since they mostly consist of short episodes but parts of stories were taken and mixed in with others, some characters were changed or excluded. The movie felt like it was made up as it went along. Some of the transitions and pacing are very awkward.  An example is when Anton and Olga are on a plane to find an item. She tells him its not there and suddenly Anton is back in Moscow and Olga is nowhere to be found. In some ways it feels like two movies condensed into one, I enjoyed it but the pacing is all over the place.

I recommend reading the books. They are much more evenly paced and as books allow for greater depth with the characters. Day Watch was entertaining but lacked the focus of the first film.  I would give the visuals a 5 and the pacing, script a 3 so 4 is the average.