"9 to 5" is up there with "Working Girl" and "Office Space" for presenting the office worker's plight while also showing some seriously hysterical humor.

I've always said if there was one character that represented my mom best in cinema, it's Violet Newstead (Lily Tomlin's character). As the senior supervisor of Consolidated, Violet does most of the work and gets none of the credit. Without a college degree, despite her great brain and ample work knowledge, she is passed over time and time again for promotion. Lily Tomlin realistically and humorously portrays this character so well that it's astounding. Her interactions with Franklin Hart (played by the quietly brilliant Dabney Coleman) are absolutely dead-on 1980 (and before) scenes that could have occurred in any office. My mom said she was falling over laughing in the theater (she went to see it in 1980 when it was originally out) because it was all so true-to-life.

Jane Fonda is equally believable, if not as likeable, as the other actors here. Her character, a mousy and long-married woman dealing with both a new job and an old marriage breaking up, is the naive one here. Not a bad portrayal, just not as interesting as the others.

Dolly Parton shines in her first movie role. She elevates this movie, with both her fabulous theme song and her Southern charm. I kid you not, there are some brains behind that beauty. She is a total natural and perhaps even funnier in this movie than Lily Tomlin (a difficult feat, and nearly impossible for a new actress). Dolly's time with Dabney Coleman is funny, charming and just plain special.

To the viewer, it may seem dated and perhaps just a vestage of our mothers' working world. But while some things change, some things stay the same. The glass-ceiling-pink-collar-ghetto still exists, it's just not as blatant and it's covered up under a lot of politically correct hogwash. If you work, you'll relate to this movie. It may be old, but it's still funny and still has a lot of relevance in today's world.