Very simple summary of the story: This is the tale of FDR, prior to becoming one of the greatest presidents of the United States, and how he came to terms with the disease he  carried.  Kenneth Branagh, having played Hamlet previously, is qualified to play FDR, and does so with touching respect. One can imagine FDR looking down and saying "Way to go Kenneth!" Cynthia Nixon, a well-known HBO alumni, plays Eleanor, likewise one of USA's greatest first ladies. Kathy Bates is not the waitress that serves FDR and his boatmen in an early scene, although that girl looks similar. She plays a Physical Therapist, whose aversion to despair might have inspired some new deal policies. This is a fine cast. You might also recognize David Paymer, who does a good job and is probably one of hollywood's more unsupported supporting men.

This movie is inspiring, a look at the crafting of leadership potential that would deliver America out of one of it's darkest decades. It's a look at FDR I found enlightening. Four years prior to being president, FDR wasn't a rabid politico, in the vein of a Clinton or a Bush. He was more accurately something of a hospital owner and a wounded healer himself. Likewise fascinating is the foreshadowing of the civil rights movement during a period of time America is a bit too preoccupied to deal with race. It's fascinated to see diseased people complain of stigma, be physically lifted, served, and pushed by black men, and basically ignore fountains that discriminate based on skin tone. The more I look back on the movie, the more intentional these quirks in the setting seem. The focus, however, is leadership, and how it's forged from adversity.

The film does paint a bit too much of a favorable picture of FDR though.  He was a great president, but the movie seems to present his love life in a sort of redemptive arc, which was not the case in the real world. The mistress early in the movie is phased out by the narrative, making way for a mutually respectful husband-wife relationship. In real life, the mistress was with FDR as he died, one of many holidays from the marriage. The relationship was so cold some hypothesized that Eleanor was a lesbian. The media is likewise given a raw deal. The media is portrayed as opportunistic in this movie, while in reality, FDR knew how to use the media, and the media was gentlemanly in their non-publicizing of FDR's condition.

This is a moving movie, and it had me close to tears at some points. How I wish we had presidents like this today! But, like many movies based on history, do some reading later and beware of blunders.