It's been interesting to read the reviews from folks around the U.S., and around the world.  I found the movie to be extremely emotionally moving.  Beautifully shot.  Robbins, Penn and Linney put in outstanding performances.  Bacon, Harden and Fishburn are solid as well.  The Oscar nominations and wins were well deserved.  Yes, the ending is not happy.  But how often in life are we able to wrap things up to our liking with a big bow on top?  Not everyone has a struggle-free childhood that leads them down a successful, enlightened path in life.  This movie is about those that don't, and the fall out that can follow them all the way to the grave.

If you're looking for a movie where the characters find redemption in the end, this is not the movie for you.  But if you're looking for a moody, emotionally haunting murder mystery, this is a sure bet.

Having said all this, I think I think I "got" this movie more than some of the reviewers for two reasons (and why I discounted my 5 star view down to 4 stars):

1) I read the book before I saw the movie.

2) I lived in the Boston neighborhood where the story is set (and Dennis Lehane grew up).

As is typical with book vs. movie, a book has several hundred pages to tell a story whereas a movie has 2 hours to tell the same tale.  There are subplots in books that just don't get the same treatment in movies.  The subplot of Bacon's character Sean and his estranged wife is an example.  I would've preferred the entire subplot left out of the movie as there just wasn't time to explain it.  Linney's and Harden's family is developed much deeper in the book and goes a LONG way in explaining how they ended up the women they are today.  In the book Linney's character, Annabeth, makes her husband Jimmy (Penn) practically look like a saint.  Also, I noticed several reviewers referring to the ending as "Eastwood's ending."  This isn't Eastwood's ending, but Lehane's...all the way down to the Dot Day parade.

And speaking of Dot Day...as one reviewer put it, the gritty Boston neighborhood where the story is set operates by its own code of conduct.  Lehane does a decent job of explaining Dorchester.  But how do you cram hundreds of years of turmultuous history into a subplot of a book, much less a 2 hour movie.  To answer one reviewer, Dorchester explains why Jimmy is a murderer who looks like a priest with an ornate cross tattooed on his back.  When you ask someone raised in Dorchester where in Dorchester they were raised, you're more likely to get a parish name than a geographical name.  You're from St. Mark's or St. Pat's, not from Field's Corner or Adam's Village.  It doesn't matter what went down on Saturday night, you better show your face at church on Sunday morning.  It's this same juxtaposition of values that I believe explains Sean's reaction to Jimmy's actions (something a lot of reviewers had issue with).  Sean, the cop, knows what Jimmy did is wrong.  But Sean, the kid from the neighborhood, knows that locking Jimmy up will only add to the layers of tragedy that have fallen on all of them.  What good would it do?  After losing a mother and a sister, Jimmy's girls would've lost him too, leaving Annabeth to take care of her two step-daughters.  And Davey was already emotionally adrift and DID commit a horrible crime which would've doomed him, regardless.  His wife, Celeste, would've ended up raising their son alone.  And frankly, when Davey got in that car 30 years previous, it doomed a piece of Davey, Sean, Jimmy, Annabeth, Celeste, Katie, the Savages, the Harris's, and everyone else whose lives this story touched.