As Spike, the bulldog in that famous cat-and-mouse series from another studio entirely, once put it, "'dis is more like it!!"

I have wanted the LOONEY TUNES GOLDEN COLLECTION series to look like the contents of these four truly golden disks for as long as the collection existed!  This collection truly has something for everyone--cartoons from the days that were golden to those who were introduced to these characters on many a Saturday morning, and cartoons for those of us (like me) who grew up knowing that there were LOONEY TUNES before Bugs and Daffy and the rest of the characters that most folks (and the clothing makers) are familiar with.  No one, and I mean *NO ONE* should be complaining here.  I think I've played the contents of these disks more than I've played all the contents of the other sets combined, and the pure gold in these sets have also forced me to go back and appreciate all over again the true essence of other volumes in this collection.  My only down side is that I wish it were still going beyond six volumes but, judging from the previous reviews here, it seems as if the collections that indeed are promised for the future may have to further sharpen their focus, perhaps a deeper unearthing of all the decades of this studio's prominence in separate volumes, to each find their nitch audience as so many are sneering here at the diligence of those at Warner Brothers who do really care about the history of the animation studio.  It is all very important and should be seen in volume after volume, and gathering them into one detailed series is getting those who would have never given some titles a toss a chance to again check the stuff out and enjoy the studio in all its incarnations and struggles to get to where it got before the doors were closed in the 1960's.

We finally get the taste that some of us have been longing for of the wartime shorts here, with the inclusion of an ultra-rare WB short called "THE DUCKTATORS", now seen here with its ending intact, and even the earliest LOONEY TUNES star, Bosko, suddenly finding his world at war!  On the same disk, as bonus feature, we get a glimpse at what Friz Freleng had done during a time away from the Warner Brothers cartoon studio, working on a failed series for MGM of the KATZENJAMMER KIDS comic strip, here called THE CAPTAIN & THE KIDS, and, despite its unpopularity even with the animators, we see that Freleng ads his own comic touch to some of these shorts, like the beer barrel sequence in "A DAY AT THE BEACH" and the hilarious results of the horse in "MAMA'S NEW HAT" accidentally tipping over a bottle of glue and getting an electric fan stuck on its rump--makes me long for a similar unearthing and restoration on these and other more notable MGM titles to show the touches given to that studio by the likes of Mel Blanc who voiced the goofy raven in the two BOOK WORM cartoons produced by Hugh Harmon.

The third disk is daring in its exposure of some shorts that show our perspective on the world during the 1930's.  It is a unique time capsule as the studio begins to formulate and the animators find their way.  Now, we finally get to see the uncut version of "BUDDY'S CIRCUS", a cartoon often severely edited on Nickelodeon showings, and then there is the simple but surreal "CARTOONIST'S NIGHTMARE", a premise perhaps somewhat better executed at a studio like Max Fleischer's during that same period and before, but it is still a unique touch.  It is also notable that we finally get the complete "blooper reel" or gag reel that those at Termite Terrace produced to amuse themselves at the Warner Brothers Christmas party.

The set closes on a high note, too, with an ASSORTED NUTS collection of one shots that prove the studio's diversity over the years, displaying that, even within the often-disliked final period of "limited animation", the last theatrical age of LOONEY TUNES and MERRIE MELODIES, the mid-1960's, there was still a hint of something novel and creative.  In fact, I liked the way the set closes, with an inventive cartoon from its early period ("PAGE MISS GLORY") and its final days ("NORMAN NORMAL"), the latter featuring the vocal talents of Peter, Paul & Mary with the comedy "stylings" and vocal clowning of Paul Stookey, telling the story of one man and his dissatisfaction with the corporate world which should be played over and over again during our current economic trials!  It is not only a time capsule, but a film that still unfortunately remains relevant!

This set is an absolute triumph, and I want Warner Brothers to know that I've never seen such an intelligent, clear-headed collection from any studio to rival this.  If this is the end of the series, I only hope that the years hence bring us gems that dig even deeper into the vaults before the ravages of time do a healthy job of stealing more of our memories!  Wonderful job, guys and gals.  This should win all kinds of awards for its excellence!  It should and will not be the last "hoorah" for all LOONEY TUNES and MERRIE MELODIES as this is just the tip of the iceberg!  The true thaw has begun!