This video doesn't really go into depth about learning dances of bellydance but it gives you the basics that you need in order to get into gear. I picked this up because I thought it would be fun to learn how to belly dance when I go to Ren Fair next year as well as lose weight.

I admit that I haven't actually lost weight from this video yet but that's mostly due to my own fault. I have however, noticed that I started to slim down. I have done many exercise videos over the past two years that I have not been happy with. I first started out with P90X which was recommended to me by my sister, who is on a much higher level of fitness than I am and I got tired of that and did Julians 30 Day Shred which I also did not like. With the two I stayed the same body type but gained muscle which caused me to gain weight. Normally I like to eat right, I like my share of veggies, grains, and fruit,but I've never loss any weight.

Like I said I still haven't lost but 1 pound with this but that's my own fault, if I did this like I want to I would lose more inches and probably a few pounds. Having had come from a heavy level of exercise, I thought that I could handle both the arms and abs, and the legs, and butt in the same day. I made it through most of the arms before nearly giving up. I try to do arms in the morning, legs in the evening or at least one of the two videos a day. What is great about this video is it gives you a workout without leaving you tired like most work outs or it did for me at least. Sure I was a little sore but nearly as much after doing one of my harder previous exercises. I've been doing this about 3 weeks off and on and I think if I do this every day like my goal is to eventually do I could get into the shape that I want to.

If your looking for a workout with out over exerting yourself, this is it. Its also thanks to this video that I'm beginning to feel more confident about my body. Pick it up, give it a try, some of the moves are hard at first but if you stick to it, you'll eventually get it.