If you ask ten movie fans what their favorite David Fincer movie is, eight are probably going to say 'Fight Club.'  I am one of the minority.  Seven is not only my favorite Fincher movie, but it is one of my favorite movies ever.  It is so much more than a crime drama.  It is nothing short of a masterpiece.

Seven follows two detectives, the calm, wise, and soon to retire Somerset (Freeman) and the young, gifted hotshot Mills (Pitt).  They arrive at the scene of a particularly grisly murder or a morbidly obese man.  I will not disclose details, but the killings are reminiscent of the style shown in "Silence of the Lambs" and years later, "Saw".  During a second inspection of the crime scene, prompted by plastic shavings found in the stomach of the dead man, "gluttony" is found carved into the wall behind the refrigerator.  Soon after, a lawyer turns up dead in another bizzare murder, and "greed" is spelled out in his own blood on the carpet.  The killer chooses victims who embody the Seven Deadly Sins.  Somerset and Mills take the case.  They pick up on the pattern and know that the killer will strike agian and follow his trail.  It becomes evident early on that this is no ordinary killer, though.  He has every move plotted well in advance, and his killings make a stark commentary on the flaws of society today.  He uses each victim's sin as the central instrument in his elaborate, almost artistic executions.  He offers an alternate and thought provoking viewpoint on justice.  It makes the viewer think more than any standard fare thriller ever would.  The ending is superb.  Don't listen to any of the other reviews, it comes as a complete shock.  It is so different than the rest of the crime movies you have ever seen, and so chilling and thought provoking.  If you don't want to know it, I suggest you don't read the rest of the page, as Nikola Tesla's review will spoil it dead for you.  With luck, Amazon will remove that retard's post from the forum before this gets posted and/or he spoils this masterpiece for more viewers.  I want to say more on the plot, but you really need to experience it for yourself.

The Final Word - An absolutely amazing movie that will floor you with it's originality and intelligence.  It is mainstream cinema at its absolute best.  A must have for any true movie fan.