In 'Mad Max', the title character is a family man whose job - a cop in the future - calls him to patrol the anarchaic highways facing down the punks, criminals and 'terminal crazies'. Max fears the job will soon transform him into one of them, but it's when his family is cut down by a gang that Max is truly pushed over into psycho territory. The film ends with Max completing vengeance on the killers and, like all avenging angels, rides off into an uncertain sunset.
This is how 'Road Warrior', second in the Mad Max trilogy of films, begins. Years have passed since the first film, a nuclear war has robbed the world of it's resources, and Max - No longer the humble family man - travels the blasted landscape burnt out and alone. But when a community of villagers is threatened by a vicious band of ruffians, Max's buried soul is slowly drawn out from his ruined identity.
'Road Warrior' is a great film. It uses a tried and true story, but one that is so simple that it is a part of almost every culture. It's every much a western, as the hero faces down the classic posse of villains in a high octane showdown. It also contains threads of the samurai mythos, a lone warrior with his own code of honour, yet bereft of a master and oweing nothing to no one. Also, like Lucas' 'Star Wars' films, many have drawn parallels between this film and the writings of Joseph Campbell. 
Mad Mel plays Max perfectly, silent and stoic. This was the role made for Gibson, and it would be a shame if he didn't return to it in the rumoured 4th film. The rest of the actors are great as well, proving once again that Australia is a hidden wealth of acting talent just recently mined again with Crowe, Jackman and Pierce. 'Warrior' also gains credit for it's ingenious art design, it's deep innovative look of a leather jacketed, ruggedly punkish, S&M design that has so often been immitated.
The current DVD release is nothing special...a decent transfer, some interesting production notes and the trailer. This is a film that needs a Special Edition, just like the original film. 
A true classic in it's own genre, 'Road Warrior' stands the test of time.