***SPOILER ALERT***

Unlike a lot of people, I actually liked American Pie 2 more than the original American Pie (although the original is what brought the word "milf" into the American lexicon). But American Wedding was pretty okay; not only had most of the jokes already run their course (especially the scenes with Stifler's mom or ANYthing Stifler-related), but most of the main cast weren't even in the movie. The latter aspect is also evident in the straight-to-video release Band Camp.

I see where other reviewers are coming from when they say that this movie feels more like a spin-off (or maybe a crossover) than a sequel, and I also think that Sarah Borkowski's review is pretty on-point. This movie introduces Tad Hilgenbrinck as Steve Stifler's younger brother Matt Stifler, and that alone shows a continuity errors: in the first two movies, Steve's brother's name was never mentioned; plus, he was played by Eli Marienthal. I think Tad only got the job because he looks so much like Seann William Scott. Before I forget, though, here's a forewarning to the guys: if all you're looking for in this movie is gratuitous nudity, you won't find it here. In fact, you see more of Tad's a** than anything else.

Anyway, on to the movie. Matt and his pals are planning to prank the band geeks at his high school because Matt wants badly to follow in his brother's footsteps. The latest prank has him sent to see the guidance counselor, who turns out to be Chuck "The Shermanator" Sherman (Chris Owen). You can tell that that role was meant to give a "my, how the tables have turned" appeal, but I don't know; it just didn't do anything for me. Anyway, Sherman sends Matt to band camp for the summer.

Upon arriving at band camp, we meet the only real saving grace to this movie: Jim's dad, Mr. Levinstein, as the head counselor (Eugene Levy is ALWAYS funny, so that's no surprise). Matt also meets his childhood crush, Elyse Houston (played by Arielle Kebbel -- quite a step up from Soul Plane, isn't it?), and she reminds him that he was a sweet guy until he started trying to be like his brother.

After, say, halfway into the movie, it seems like things will get better, but then everything plays out almost exactly like what happened in American Wedding. Stifler's annoying pranks are good for a few laughs, but then he screws up so bad that even the audience at home thinks he's a jerk; then he finally realizes the error of his ways and fixes things up for the girl of his dreams just before the credits roll.

Even a veteran porn star (Ginger Lynn Allen) and a pair of Playboy Playmates (Rachel Veltri and Angela Little) do little to add interest to this movie. Like the case with American Wedding, Band Camp is only worth buying to complete your American Pie collection.

Anthony Rupert