First of all, let's face facts: even GREAT zombie movies are not really great movies.  If you're reading this you probably love all the classics and enjoy them to no end just like me, but even the uber-classics Night of the Living Dead and Dawn of the Dead are not great movies on the same level as The Shawshank Redemption, The Deer Hunter, The Godfather, or pretty much any other certifiably great motion picture.  Therefore, I have rated this film compared to other zombie movies.  In my opinion this is a four star zombie movie, but you'd have to be crazy to call this a four star film in general!

I'm not going into a lengthy review here.  All I'm going to say is that you should give this film a chance, even if you hated Diary of the Dead and Land of the Dead.  In my opinion this is the best Romero zombie flick since Day of the Dead, or possibly even since Dawn.  There are a few key drawbacks that I believe are distracting people from the overall quality of this movie.

First of all, there are two or three fairly dubious digital effects shots in this movie, and the worst offender is in the opening scene.  Don't let that discourage you though, as there are lots of great practical effects shots later in the film, and plenty of zombies chowing down on practical (non-CG) guts!  Let's be honest; in a zombie flick, things like whether there are some good scenes of zombies chowing down on intestines are important!

Secondly, there is really no explanation as to why the two feuding families on an island off of Delaware both have Irish accents, and why one of them wears old-West style cowboy clothes.  However, just because this makes absolutely no sense, doesn't mean it hurts the film.  You just have to accept that somehow there are a bunch of Irish dudes on this island!  Personally I think the movie would have been taken much more seriously if Romero had populated the island with realistic characters with American accents, but whatever.

Other than those two factors above, I think Survival of the Dead is one of Romero's best films.  The acting is solid.  It's certainly one of his most visually appealing and beautifully shot films.  It's not very scary and takes place mostly during the day in full sunlight, but you can say the same of Dawn of the Dead, so no problem there.  The story moves along quickly without too much time ever elapsing between zombie action, and the plot actually does manage to make you think a little bit at the end, without beating you over the head with a message like Diary of the Dead.  Most importantly, this is a good fun zombie flick that is SO MUCH BETTER than Diary of the Dead.  Don't count Romero out yet; watch Survival of the Dead!