The movie in my opinion has one of the best opening scenes I've seen for an action movie. The movie got off to a fine start but pretty much drags on until the explosive finish.

I'm not sure why some people complain that it uses matrix-style effects to achieve some of the fights. There are many movies out there that set a new standard of various elements such as action, music, budgets etc. and I am actually surprised that not more movies use the matrix 'bullet-time' approach in their scenes. They needed something to show off Jet Li's inhuman speed and the 'bullet-time' approach was appropriate for it (you wouldn't want him to fight in 'fast-forward' mode would you?).

The main soundtrack of the movie is composed by Hans Zimmer who has quite a fine reputation for doing action movie soundtracks (Black Rain, The Rock, etc). The plot of the movie is original and has a lot of potential going for it. It was also a huge opportunity for Jet Li to really flesh out his acting. Which is unfortunate because this is where the movie fails to deliver. This is a plot of Highlanderesque proportions that demands longer running time! More time should have been spent developing the characters such as Yulaw and his ex-partner, showing Yulaw when he was still a cop and his eventual abomination.

Some of the story demands better acting skills, such as Jet Li dealing with the death of his wife. There is also almost no time given in the movie to show the extent of Gabriel's grief. It's not entirely Jet Li's fault; English is not his main language and he has had very little experience playing in American movies central characters who are Asian-american.

Finally, I think they could have focused on more than 1 universe (or multiverse). Imagine that one universe had a wise and skilled Jet Li who was a tibetian monk in the Himalayas; who sensed the possibility of more than one of his existences; Who knew that his destiny to fight a great enemy was drawing near and spent his days preparing for it. Then halfway through the movie we would see an epic fight between him and Yulaw, but through some deceiving and evil tactic, Yulaw gains the upper hand and murders him. Better yet, we don't know who wins, and later on it turns out that Yulaw was actually killed by the monk, but the monk himself, after beating Yulaw and 'absorbing' some of his powers and knowledge, turns to evil himself and decides to masquerade as Yulaw.

We can only hope that in another universe, such a movie exists. =)