Good actors do there best when they are inspired, and they can save a real bad movie from totally destroying itself. Runaway Jury is a perfect example of this ideal, and you can look no further than the performances giving by all who participated in this film. Gene Hackman is no stranger to this notion, and gives a great sense of class, and humility to an other wise cookie cutter bad guy. Rachel Weisz not only holds her own with the big boys but literally makes them sweat in the acting department as well. Giving both Hackman and Hoffman a worthy adversary in and out of the courtroom, and making them know that they are not going to steal the movie by themselves. And Dustin Hoffman brings a sense of heart and humanity to his role, which sadly is not very big to begin with. All the supporting actors do well themselves with John Cusack, Luis Guzman, and Bruce Davison giving great support. Judging by the talent involved, you will guess that this might be a great movie but it's not. That's because the screenplay, the editing, and the director betrays them and their performances with a film that feels very unfinished, and amateurish to say the least.  The story, which deals with guns, is really not about them but about the state of which one will go for messing with the legal system. It's a noble story to tell but when you are hammering the idea of gun responsibility, and accountability to the viewer with out equal say about the benefits, you are in trouble, and you can thank the screenplay for that. The editing feels way to raw to be a real final cut, and the direction feels too disjointed to be even considered professional. 
With all these problems going for it, it's the showmanship of Gene Hackman, Rachel Weisz, and Dustin Hoffman that moves the film forward, but they should not have had to work that hard to save this bad movie. The director and the people behind the scenes should carry the blunt of the responsibility as well, and judging by the way the acting literally saves this movie, they did nothing to help the actors involved.