I really enjoyed Night of the Living dead it is a good film with decent acting an okay story and plot and its in black and white. I prefer the black and white version cause thats what it originally came out as.I remember buying this film at Barnes and Noble and I really was impressed by what I saw the zombies were so believable.Overall for  the tight budget this film was made on it is pretty good although I wish that the film had some special features and it had more zombie action but this movie is a classic in every way imaginable like ALfred Hitchcock's Psycho film and in my opionion scarier and better.I thought it was really corny and dumb when the kid zombie killed her mother with a tool I mean zombies  arent soppused too use tools everybody knows that. They eat you and then you become a zombie. I found the music too be good in this film.This isnt a perfect film but its still pretty good. My favorite part would have to be when the zombies enter the house that the people are hiding in and its pure cauos. This movie will always be a classic unforgettable in every way corny at some parts but  overall a pretty decent film one every horror aficionado should add too there collection.The gore in this film was really good I thought it was believable. This movie is one of the best of the geaorge Romero's dead series. I think that every horror buff should watch this film at least once and you wont be dissapointed trust me. I wish that there was a special edition of this film but alas there isnt that im aware of but still worth a buy.

  THis is the type of movie that after watching a million times you will want too keep coming back and watch it again and again. The secret too making  people think something like this could happen is too set it in the real world and Romero has definetely done that here with this good picture. Zombies have been around in horror films for a long time and there not going away anytime soon so praise to Romero for helping define the zombie Genre of Horror films he didnt invent it but if you ask me he sure helped perfect it.Romero is one of the best movie directors too ever live and his movies are a must see.