Well.. what's GREAT? Well we FINALLY have every single Psycho film on dvd (this set insludes 2-4). ALL in widescreen, although I believe the original is STILL non-anamorphic (although I hear Universal is set to re-issue the original soon). BUT the ones in this set ARE 16x9 WIDESCEEN even 4, which I thought was straight to cable made.

What's NOT so great? Well while the price is FANTASTIC. Sadly there's ZERO in the way of special features.. and while its GREAT to have individual dics (and not wimp out and pull that dual side junk, like Mallrats and Oragzmo). Both discs are settled nicely into a regular dvd case like MOST 2 dvd sets are now, with the small hinge dvd holder.

Psycho II appears on the first with 3 and 4 on the second. SADLY I think the video quality for the latter two suffer a bit, especially 3 which didn't look so hot, to me, even on a small 19" regular definition tv. BUT then again.. look at the price, and its the first time they've been available, especially the 4th which has not been previously available.

I will not waste your time on the. "are the movies good?" I am pretty sure you already know that.. BUT.. is it worth buying? If you are a completist and a fan, then ABSOLUTELY. Having all 4 on the shelf is very nice, although we could see a bigger boxset coming (I can hope). Sadly with Perkins gone we can never really get a good "what was he thinking?" aon Psycho III.

Still though.. I would LOVED to have at least seen some features on Psycho II which is a very worthy and creepy follow up to the original, you do get the thatrical trailers. Still I won't look a gift horse in the mouth and say if you want the movies.. then this set is a great addition to your collection.

I only drop it ONE star based on the fact that Psycho III and IV while they are on a single disc.. either more care could have been taken in the compression or 3 or better yet each had been given its own disc to acheive the best LOOKING picture for the film.. and even the video is a MINOR quibble because this is the BEST Psycho III has probably looked since it was in theaters..