The modern recipe for romantic comedies in Hollywood is all too familiar:

o Take one actress that female ticket buyers can relate to
o Add one actor funny enough that the guys won't mind paying to see
o Mix them into a situation where they can't stand each other
o Sprinkle in a quirky sidekick or two to keep things interesting
o Bake them in adversity for 90 minutes
o And by the closing credits the pair will be happily matched, your faith in love will be renewed and you'll leave feeling satisfied.

That recipe must still work for people because Hollywood keeps serving us these familiar dishes, but thankfully the movie, How Do You Know, strays from the formula and shows that there are movie makers out there willing to try something new.

Or should I say, "Something old?"

One of the cool things about this movie is that both my wife and I realized just as it ended that we felt like we had just finished watching a GOOD, old-fashioned Cary Grant movie.

There's nothing wrong with that, is there?

There was no potty humor to placate the immature, there were no skanky shots to appease the shallow... there were just honest, thoughtful adult characters trying to do right by themselves and others and stumbling a bit in the process, so I can see why this movie doesn't appeal to everyone.

In a world with seemingly increasing numbers of snide, jaded and critical people, not everyone has in their circle people who are genuinely selfless. If a moviegoer doesn't know people like the characters in this movie, it is easy to see how they wouldn't enjoy the film. How could they? These characters and their decisions would just seem implausible and ridiculous to them I'm sure.

This movie is about (and probably for) that minority of people in our harsh world who carefully and deliberately choose their own perspective and feelings, and try to make them sanguine. If that's not you, or you don't know people who really are like that, then I can't tell you if you will like the film.

How Do You Know was a pleasant surprise that will resonate warmly with some people, and disappoint others.