As a film overall, Disaster Movie was actually much better than I expected it to be. Of course this isn't the best film ever made by a long shot, but it is getting way too much harsh treatment and it is a lot more humorous than previous films by Friedberg and Seltzer; I enjoyed it and have watched it more than once, willingly.

First of all, this is so not as bad as some of it's predecessors. I enjoyed this a lot more than I did Date Movie, Epic Movie, and Meet The Spartans. Sure, a lot of the jokes are the same, but the thing with Disaster Movie is it knows the jokes are horrible and the movie is a total waste, and it makes fun of itself which in the end is funny to me! It wasn't meant to be comically gifted and witty, but just entertain with people who knew how to enjoy such films.

You knew what you were in for when you went to see the movie. I don't see why you would be expecting any different from the movies that came before this. You shouldn't have seen Disaster Movie if you hated all the others and don't like films similar to them, even though I do think this was better than any of their others I have seen. As a film itself, I found it very amusing and entertaining. There are far worse films, because even though while you're watching the movie and you know the acting is terrible and the jokes are cheesy and lame, the film doesn't try to be anything more than it is. All the others tried way too hard to please the audience, and by the time the makers got around to this movie, they knew they should stop trying to make a bad film good and just go with the flow, and in the end, I was very satisfied with how Disaster Movie turned out.

I understand why this movie could have it's blood-hungry mobs, I don't see how anyone couldn't understand that, but to be hated so badly when it is not that horrible of a film, I am actually disappointed. If you hated this film, think about all the things I said and rewatch it again. Even though at times the movie becomes unbearable, it has a lot of upsides and deserves better than the rating it has and the treatment it gets. I even believe that a lot of the people who viewed this and hated it went in watching it with no doubt in their mind that they will end up hating it and they did everything they could to make sure that they did in the outcome, which just makes me so angry. Believe it or not, I have a lot more to say, but for the people reading this who liked it, they will have already agreed with me by now, and the people who hated it, disagreed. I can't change anybody's mind about this film, they have to do that on their own, but at least I've said my piece. I liked it, and it is highly under appreciated.