I must say that i am not suprised by the many reviews posted here on Amazon, but i am suprised at how many people don't get the movie.  Many complain of it's jokes, and its "flat" plot line.  In my opinion this is a wonderful movie.  It could have been better, or it could have been worse.  Of course not every movie is made for every adult or kid, so some people aren't going to like it.  This movie was meant to be simple, as the book was.  Read the book, simplicity was what Dr. Seuss' books were all about.  Simple but with moral.  This story teaches lessons for those who bother to pay attention to the story, instead of complaining about it.  It teaches children not to be a stuck up tattle tale, or a rule breaker.  The two children in this movie learn a lesson in a fun and entertaining way, and that's important.  It also teaches adults that career's are important, yes, but not more important than your children.  Every parent needs to spend time with their child, and every childs behaviour is a reflection of the parent.  It teaches these lessons in a simple way as to ensure young children to not get confused or bored with the movie.  It also does this so that anyone of any age can enjoy it.  Granted, most teenagers aren't going to enjoy this movie as much as young children and adults.  Although the use of adult jokes through out the movie will maintain any mature audience.  These jokes are always above kids heads, and never so bad that a child shouldn't watch.  If your young child understands these jokes at a young age...you need to ask YOURSELF why.  While making the jokes targeted towards adults, the cat keeps children visual stimulated, and laughing.  No harm done.  I think the people that get so upset with this movie are the people who have become dependant on special effects, drastic plot lines of no importance, and of the television raising their children while they aren't paying attention.  This is a movie to be enjoyed by the whole family together.

If you'r ready to watch tv as a family and you, the adult, maintain a intellectual level, you will see the value of this movie...and what a jem it really is.

i'm buying it!

Cheers