Michael O'Hara (Orson Welles, with a very soft Irish brogue), an out of work seaman, has a brief encounter in Central Park with Elsa `Rosalie' Bannister (Rita Hayworth, with short blonde hair!).  Later that evening they meet again when O'Hara rescues her from a mugging in progress.  In gratitude, her crippled husband, Arthur Bannister (Everett Sloane) seeks out O'Hara and offers him a job as a crew member on their luxury yacht  on a voyage from New York to their home in San Francisco.  Against his better judgment, O'Hara allows himself to be talked into taking the job.  Also against his better judgment, he finds he cannot resist Rosalie's advances.

When the yacht stops in the West Indies to take on supplies, the party is joined by Bannister's law partner, George Grisby (Glenn Anders).  Grisby and Bannister prove to be a garrulous and very creepy pair.  Their exaggerated and unattractive mannerisms as well as their choice of conversational topics are, to say the least, unwholesome.  Bannister hints there is something in Rosalie's past that enabled him to blackmail her into marriage.  He also implies that he doesn't mind if his beautiful wife is having an affair with O'Hara because he can satisfy her in ways that Bannister cannot.  Bannister is twisted in mind as well as body.

On a layover in Acapulco, Grisby approaches O'Hara with an offer of $5000 to kill him.  At first Michael thinks he is planning to commit suicide.  He talks it over with Rosalie and they conclude that Grisby is just insane.  When the yacht finally reaches its destination, Michael asks Rosalie to run away with him.  She is reluctant to do so because she doesn't want a life of hardship and poverty.  Michael tells her that $5000 will give them a good start in their new life and goes off to find Grisby.

Grisby doesn't really want Michael to kill him.  He wants to fake his own death so he can collect on insurance and live the good life on some tropical island.  In order to prove to the insurance company that he is dead, he needs a signed confession from Michael that he accidentally shot Grisby and dumped the body in the bay.  Without an actual body, Michael can't be convicted.  It's a win / win.  Unfortunately, something goes dreadfully wrong.  Michael arrives at Grisby's office, with a smoking gun in his hand and a signed confession in his pocket, just as Grisby's corpse is being wheeled out on a stretcher.  Will Michael be convicted of the crime?  Will he be able to discover the real killer?  What will happen between Michael, Rosalie and Bannister?  From here out, the pace of the film becomes a roller coaster of suspense and action.  Welles planned an elaborate tour de force chase and confrontation scene in an amusement park fun house, but the studio cut and destroyed most of the footage.  What remains is a very famous scene involving a shootout in a hall of mirrors.

The studio hack job makes it very difficult follow the plot and almost impossible to understand the particulars of how the insurance scam is actually supposed to work.  There still exists a nine page memo from Welles to studio head, Harry Cohen, describing how the film should be scored; the film as it exists today follows none of the guidelines.  Sequences that Welles wanted to cut out entirely were revamped during the studio's editing process.  The genius of Orson Welles was such that even with massive studio interference in rewrite, editing and music, "The Lady from Shanghai" can still be considered one of the great films noir.

The DVD has a very nicely cleaned up black and white film quality.  The audio is clear and sharp, though Welles' Irish accent can be a bit soft and inaudible at times.  Soundtracks are available in English, French, Spanish and Portuguese, subtitles are available in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, Korean and Thai.  The special features include an optional commentary track by Peter Bogdanovich, in which he quotes from many conversations he had with Welles about this movie; a featurette "Conversation with Peter Bogdanovich";  printed biography and filmography `talent files' for Welles and Hayworth; vintage advertising and original theatrical trailers for "The Lady from Shanghai" and several other classic films.

As Michael O'Hara says in the beginning of the film, "I never make up my mind about anything at all until after it's over and done with."  Recommended....