"Vera Drake" is an exquisitely well-crafted film.

Writer-director Mike Leigh immerses us in the lives of the Drakes in London in 1950. There is scarcely a wide shot in the entire movie, because Leigh wants to shutter us inside the cramped apartment houses where Vera lives and busily makes her daily rounds as a caregiver and helping friend. It's a drama that grows on you as we reach ever deeper into Vera's heart.

Leigh takes realism and authenticity to new heights. He and his production team have managed to make everything spot on: the performances, lighting, design, costumes, the sense of time and place.

And in this place the lives on screen are often sorrowful.

You'd never know it, though, by looking at Vera. She always seems to be smiling, even when she's working as a cleaning woman in a few rich houses, scrubbing, dusting, polishing.

Thanks to Vera, who cooks and cleans for her own family, too, the Drakes manage to make a go of it in post-war England.

Vera's husband, Stan, is a mechanic. Her son Sid is an apprentice tailor. Daughter Ethel works in a light-bulb factory. The Drakes are close and carry a rather rosy outlook on life.

Then there is Vera's other, secret job.

Most people call them abortions. Vera thinks of them as helping out young girls who have gotten into a bit of trouble.

She's gentle, careful and rather matter-of-fact as she ends women's pregnancies in their bedrooms.

Her recovery prescription is the same for every patient: a good, hot cup of tea.

As Vera, Imelda Staunton delivers a masterful performance, worthy of whatever awards she'll pick up in the coming weeks (she's nominated for a best-actress Oscar and other prizes).

Staunton nimbly crosses that bridge, from everyday drudge to a woman at the edge of her emotions slammed into the harsh mirror of self-realization. All of the actors hit high notes. Leigh made sure that no role, no matter how small, was a throwaway.

For comic relief, there is Ethel (Alex Kelly) and her dim-witted potential suitor, Reg (Eddie Marsan), a nerdy duo who could chair the doofus convention in any era.

"Vera Drake" is more about love, family and forgiveness than illegal operations. But its subtext is the battlefield of pro-choice vs. pro-life, where the nerve centers of humanity collide.