Having read the book by Jodi Picoult several years back, I was curious to see the movie adaptation of this very interesting novel.  The novel takes on a  fascinating and not-too-common premise and does a good job exploring multiple characters' points of view.  Reading the novel, I thought this was a good approach that was suitable for the subject at hand.  The movie, however, does not do the book justice. If you enjoyed the novel, you will not enjoy the movie.  Aside from the terrible casting choice of having Cameron Diaz play Mrs. Fitzgerald, the movie omits some very important plot points.  Ms. Diaz comes across as shrill and over-controlling and gives the impression that she's just hamming it up for her paycheck. I felt absolutely no connection or sympathy for her character and started to wish that it was her that was losing the battle for her life (instead of her daughter).

 Jesse, played by Evan Ellingson, does not get much screen time and has his part chopped up by the screenwriters as if they were Benihana chefs. Once again, the screenplay dramatically deviates from the novel (and not for the better).  I thought this was another sad mistake and would have liked to see the adaptation honor the spirit of the source material.  Anna's age was changed from 13 to 11.  Why?  I don't understand the point of doing so.  A 13 year-old seeking medical emancipation is more believable than an 11 year old doing so.  In real life, Abigail Breslin was 13 at the time of filming, so I fail to see the wisdom of changing the age of her character.

However, the most frustrating point in this movie came in the last several minutes when I was horrified and disgusted to find out they had completely changed the ending.  Readers of the novel probably did not expect the surprise twist at the end of the book, and I was certainly deeply moved by the time I finished reading.  But when I saw the ending of the movie, I was stunned to see what they had done!  Anyone that has read the book will probably have a similar reaction.

No doubt this film is destined to become a Lifetime movie of the week, replayed in heavy rotation.  If you must see this movie, don't bother renting it, it will be on cable in the near future.  I would like to get my two wasted hours back for having to sit through this sappy melodrama train wreck.