This is my favorite line in a nearly flawless movie uttered by Judy Garland at the climax of the memorable Christmas sequence, perfectly capturing the spirit of family that permeates this film.  If you're looking for a film that promotes the family unit in a positive light, search no further. Or, if you're a fan of the golden age of the Hollywood musical, this is the touchstone, the film that revolutionized the genre in the same way "Oklahoma!" did to the Broadway musical. There are no big production numbers, the songs flow effortlessly out of the situation, are used for characterization and advance the plot.  The film introduced three songs which have become standards, "The Boy Next Door", "The Trolley Song", & "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas", all masterfully performed by Judy Garland at her peak.

Although intended as an ensemble piece, there is no question as to who is the star.  Judy Garland made the leap to superstardom as Esther Smith, incandescent as the young girl on the cusp of womanhood, totally natural, tender & believable, also never more exquisite to the eye on screen, particularly in the latter part of the film.  Her talent coupled with Vincente Minnelli's superb direction created screen magic in this and " The Clock", their next film together.  Theirs was an extraordinary cinema partnership in the tradition of George Cukor & Katharine Hepburn, Willian Wyler & Bette Davis, or Stanley Donen & Audrey Hepburn.

Margaret O'Brien as Tootie Smith, in inspired in the quirks and nuances she brings to this fey little girl, & particularly shines in the Halloween sequence.  She was awarded a special Juvenile Oscar for her performance. The rest of the cast, Mary Astor, Leon Ames, Lucille Bremer, Tom Drake, Harry Davenport, Marjorie Main and company, all wonderful. This is director Vincente Minnelli's masterpiece, that thrust him to the top ranks of Hollywood film directors,& started him on his illustrious career.  He doesn't strike a wrong note in his vision of the film as a whole, and every last detail works beautifully.

The only flaws in the film are the deleted scenes mentioned in the excellent audio commentary by film historian John Fricke, which include a song written by Rodgers & Hammerstein called "Boys and Girls Like You and Me" sung of course by Judy Garland. As described by Mr. Fricke, they all sound interesting but were cut to trim the running time. It would have been a bonus to see them added as an extra but unfortunately, it seems the footage is lost.  Also, it would have been nice since the St. Louis World's Fair has been such a focal point in the film to have a little more of the Smith family experiencing it's wonders, but these are minor complaints.

As for the extras besides the aforementioned commentary, the highlights include a very charming introduction by Liza Minnelli, where she shares her own impressions of her parents and the film. In addition there is  a very good documentary of the making of the film narrated by Roddy McDowell that inculdes interviews with Vincente Minnelli, Margaret O'Brien & Hugh Martin, one of the composers of the songs, plus a vocal recording of the cut "Boys and Girls..." number, accompanied by stills of Garland and Drake. The only clunker is a television pilot from the mid 1960's starring Celeste Holm & Shelley Fabares, skip it.

Over the years "Meet Me in St. Louis" has become known more as a holiday film, although it is a welcome additon to the cannon of classic Christmas movies, this is truly a film for all seasons.