I've seen my fair share of Burt Reynolds movies to date and several of them stay with me but none like `Sharky's Machine'.  I can't help but think this is one of the best down and dirty, slick, and hard hitting crime thrillers I have ever watched.  There are plenty of reviews outlining the plot so I'm going to shy away from that and just review elements of the movie itself.

As far as a plot goes, it starts out strong and exciting and carries through until the decisive end.  There are quite a few dark events and violent scenes and there is no shying away from an in-your-face searing experience that makes you appreciate good directing and a solid story.  Mixing different elements in but not really detracting from the movie is some romance and intrigue coupled with some tragedy and even a little clever humor in certain spots.  When it comes to acting, the talent was stacked here and these actors did a fine job all the way through.  There is just no going wrong with names like Brian Keith, Bernie Casey, Henry Silva, Charles Durning, Vitoria Gassman, Richard Libertini, and Rachel Ward.  The action scenes were choreographed well and the stunt work was great.  In fact, stuntman Dar Robinson made, at the time of this movie being filmed, a record breaking highest backward, blind freefall from a structure.  This is when Henry Silva's character, the assassin, is shot by Burt Reynolds in the Peachtree Tower high rise and he falls out the window and onto the roof of the lower adjacent building (at the end of the movie).

The last thing that I really enjoyed about this movie was the soundtrack.  When this film was released, it had a mostly Jazz tinged soundtrack and this wasn't something readily seen at that time.  A nice bit of forward thinking on Burt's part to make this happen. There were many prominent Jazz musicians featured and they put together some great music.  Unfortunately, to this day, I've never seen and cannot find a CD soundtrack to this film so that is a kind of a letdown.

It would be nice to see a re-release of this film in a widescreen format, some good special features, and a nice 5.1 surround or DTS soundtrack.  For now, since this is all we have, it will do fine and I highly recommended this movie to fans of this genre and to fans of Burt Reynolds.