Before seeing "Fight the Future", I had never had much interest in the X-files. I had always wanted to get into the series, but had been told by "philers" (X-file followers) that you really needed to see the series from the beginning to understand all the lore and mythology that was developed by series creator and producer, Chris Carter.
Despite this, I went to see "X-Files: Fight the Futre" and I became an immediate fan.  The movie is a great starting point for people unfamiliar with the series.  The movie, through some clever dialogue and settings, gives a brief back history of the characters and events that have led up to the film, which served as a bridge between seasons 5 and 6 of the televison program.  Fans of the series criticized the film, stating that the movie simplifed the immense conspiracy that had been developed by the series, but I found that, having no background with the X-files, it was just the catalyst I needed to launch my interest and give me the foundation for following the series.
The story introduces us to Agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovney) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), members of a classified agency within the heart of the F.B.I. that investigates paranormal and extra-terrestrial activities.  It is established early in the film that Mulder and Scully have been removed from the X-files, for reasons which were established in the television series.  Despite this fact, they stumble across an "incident" that occurs in Texas, where a cover-up has been put into motion that will lead them to some extraordinary discoveries that nearly costs them their lives.
My synopsis of the film is deliberately vague, and for those of you reading this for understanding, I can say only that it is better that you come into this film with an open mind about it, as I did when I first saw it.  The reason I give for this is that the story is not merely an independent film, but part of a much larger storyline that encompasses a generational television series, with this film serving as one of the high point in the series plot.  You need to approach it without a pre-conceived notion as to what the film is about, because, as I experienced with my inital viewing of the film, the movie left me with as many questions as it answered, and because of my interest in the film, I went in search of a greater understanding of the stories and characters found within the X-files.
The film was obviously produced on a much larger production budget than that of the television show, but, to its credit, the movie does not spend a lot of time using special effects to create tension.  Instead, the tension of the film is built in the same way it is done in the television show-by providing paranoia that stems from shadowy agents within the Federal Government who act in the interest of their private agendas.  The resulting effect is a movie that works well on creating paranoia and leaves you anticipating, but never really knowing, whats going to happen next.
The film features much of the production talent of the series, including direction for Carter, as well as a great soundtrack by Mark Snow, who had the aid of an orchestra to amplify his classic television scoring.  In addition, all of the principles of the series are present. 
This movie, in this reviewers opinion, arrived at a time when the X-files was at the prime of its success and popularity, and it is definitely a strong installment in the X-files franchise.  Since my initial viewing of this film, I have become an avid fan, a "philer" if you will, and I still find the film to be a great installment in a series which implored that the audience "TRUST NO ONE".  Well make an exception and trust me when I say that  "X-Files: Fight the Future" is a worthwhile film, and a great adventure for fans of the series, or for those who have never before experienced the adventures and investigations of Mulder and Scully.
Scott Kolecki