I too am a huge James Lee Burke fan.  I have read most if not all of Burke's Dave Robicheaux novels.  In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead is my favorite of the series.  I liked this movie much more then the movie adaptation of Heaven's Prisoners.  I think Tommy Lee Jones makes a great Dave Robicheaux much more so then does Alec Baldwin.  Jones lacks the dark hair and the touch of gray, so it is harder to call him by Dave's other nick name  "Streak" that may be more of a problem with some of the other books with "Cletus".  I thought Goodman makes a great villain (Baby Feet) as well.  Overall the casting in this movie is outstanding!

As usual the movie left out a few scenes from the book.  I was wondering how they would show Baby Feet hitting Dave with a line drive with a baseball.  I suspect the scene was shot, but all cut from the movie except at the end when you see Baby Feet hitting a ball with a bat while Dave describes his fate, but that is all you see.

I believe the book had more conversations between Dave and the "General".  Levon Helm made a good General Hood but I wish they used more of the books dialog.  I knew how the book was going to end and was looking forward to it, but thought the director did not quite pull it off like Burke does in the book.

I'm not sure I liked seeing the scenes of post Katrina New Orleans as the book is + 15 years old, long before Katrina but the scenes were interesting.

I agree with the other reviewers that if you never have read a Burke book you might not like this movie.  Like most great books seldom does the movie live up to the book.  One of the things very difficult for moviemakers to do with Burke's books is bring out the poetic descriptive prose he uses.  His writing is "beautiful.  To really enjoy a Burke book read it first and then listen to it on audiotape!  You get a taste of this in the opening and closing of The Electric Mist.

I pray they make more Dave Robicheaux movies, but one with Cletus.  Who would make a good Cletus?  I'm thinking Tom Sizemore or Randy Quaid.  Which novel would you pick?  I hope they bring back Tommy Lee Jones he is a GREAT Dave!