The 411 by Maria:

Yesterday I was feeling a little sick from my intestinal nightmare the night before so out of character for me, I took to the couch and watched a few movies with the kids. One of them was Mirror Mirror.

I was hopeful that this would be good but wasn't holding out hope. I am usually let down by movies lately. Tainted I guess. It is mostly a time thing and if it turns out not to be good, I get upset by the time I wasted.

We start the movie hearing Julia Roberts tell us that this movie is about her, "the most beautiful Queen". She tells us that this is her story. Julia is perfect as the Queen. She is evil but not in a scary way for children.

Watching the cartoon version of this Grimms Fairy Tale by Disney still makes kids nervous. My daughter leaves the room when the witch is on screen and I remember closing my eyes too. This is much more enjoyable and no nightmares is always a plus. The world is scary enough when you are a kid.

This movie was enjoyable because:

I wasn't embarrassed to watch it with my kids. Completely child friendly.

The all star cast including some surprises like Mare Winningham (I was wondering where she has been) the King played by Sean Bean from my newest favorite show Game of Thrones and well, Julia. I love her!

It is funny, fast paced, and filled with adventure.

While I have read some reviews I believe this movie doesn't try to take itself too seriously. It is a modern take with a twist on a fairy tale. How can you take that seriously. It is merely a movie created for enjoyment and hopefully you have a laugh.

Great colors and great effects!

I asked the kids what they liked about it:

Handsome loved the 7 dwarfs and found them hysterically funny. " Those little guys were tough and funny. I liked the crabby guy. He could kick butt!"  (Can't say I blame him. I loved them too! So happy to see Marty on screen).

Goddess "loved all of it" When I pressed her, she said, "it was good because the Queen was mean and in the end Snow White won the battle for the castle. Good always wins over evil! Awww..that's my girl!

What I loved was that this princess is more modern and not a scared little girl. She is strong and doesn't wait for a prince to ride up and save her on his mighty stead! She's a go getter. A much better role model for my daughter than the ones I grew up wishing I could be like.