"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen" is Terry Gilliam's greatest film.  Some may still hold affection for his breakthrough comic fantasy "Time Bandits" and "Brazil" is his most acclaimed film  amongst film critics, but the more I let the otherworldly fantasy ride  "Munchausen" takes me on sink in, the more I realize it is the  greatest achievement of this immortal cinematic artist.  
Gilliam, to me,  still remains a highly underrated filmmaker.  I believe that he is  certainly one of the great filmmakers ever born in America.  He is on a par  with Orson Welles and Stanley Kubrick.  Like Kubrick, Gilliam is a great  visual filmmaker who defected to England.  Their films were usually funded  by the big studios, but were made overseas, allowing them more creative  freedom to let their imaginations run wild without Big Brother always  looking over their shoulders.  The result of the combination of great  talent and creative freedom is obvious in the end result of these two  American-born artists:  their films will stand the test of time even if it  takes critics and audiences time to catch up to their unique vision.  With  time, I believe that Terry Gilliam will be referred to with the same sort  of awe as Stanley Kubrick.
I believe that "The Adventures of Baron  Munchausen" was the victim of backlash when first released.  It came  on the heels of his previous two films, which were both very successful.  "Time Bandits" was a surprise box office hit and  "Brazil", after a well-publicized production history, was  embraced by film critics, winning several awards from the Los Angeles Film  Critics and gaining Academy Award nominations.  So, no matter how great a  film Gilliam made next, it would probably be treated like a letdown.  Making matters worse, "Munchausen" went way over budget and  critics treated the film like the result of a self-indulgent filmmaker who  let his success go to his head.  "Munchausen" was in and out of  American theaters very quickly and the critics generally dismissed  it.
Personally, I feel that with "Munchausen" you get the best  of Gilliam.  I don't think the money was wasted, because Gilliam fills the  screen with some of the most amazing images you will ever see in a motion  picture.  Gilliam began his career as an animator and I can't think of a  live action film that resembles animation more than "Munchausen".  In animation, anything is possible because you are not limited to what can  and can't be done with live actors and special effects.  If you can dream  it, you can draw it.  "Munchausen" seems to be a true miracle  because of what is placed on screen with real people and real scenery.  I  can only dream of what Gilliam could have done with a budget a hundred  million dollars larger.  No other filmmaker would put it to better use.  
I could go on and on about the visual wonder of "Munchausen",  but its greatness is not limited to what the eyes can see.  It tells an  adventure story as well as "Time Bandits" and has the satirical  bite of "Brazil" told with a lighter touch.  Gilliam has made  three films since "Munchausen":  "The Fisher King",  "12 Monkeys", and "Fear &amp; Loathing in Las Vegas".  I believe that in time, these films will get the greater respect that they  deserve, too.  However, in my mind, "The Adventures of Baron  Munchausen" stands now as Terry Gilliam's finest  achievement.
Gilliam's films are musts on DVD since he is one of the  great visual stylists in the history of cinema.  "Munchausen" has  great picture and sound quality.  The picture may be slightly dated, but it  is probably as good as it will ever look.
If you'd like to e-mail me, my  address is:  jtstudman@hotmail.com.