Hard to believe that Miramax Entertainment could mess up this DVD so horribly. An anniversary release of one of the most important films of the 20th century no less. Shame on them.
There are a lot of raves here about the fact that the film is being presented "letterboxed" for the first time. Actually, it's just the first time the top and bottom of the picture have been chopped off for no reason! "A Hard Day's Night" was filmed in Academy standard 1.37:1. Slightly wider than your average TV tube, but not anything close to the 1.66:1 chop job on the new DVD. Full-frame would have been the proper presentation.
As for the audio...they DID clean up the dialog portions of the movie, so for perhaps the first time EVER, you can actually HEAR what everyone is saying - and it no longer sounds like they are speaking into an Edison cylinder recorder.
But oh, the music. They replaced the original mono soundtrack with the standard mono AHDN CD to replace the overmodulated music on the original film.  Never mind that there were a couple of different mixes in there that they should have left alone ("Tell Me Why", "And I Love Her", "If I Fell") - BUT...they went and added microdelay and phasing to create some kind of a half-assed 5.1 mix that through a standard stereo or mono downmixed output makes the audio sound phase-y and hollow.  This is worse than the original mono mix (available on the original Beta & VHS release from 1982 or the print aired on AMC several years ago) and the fact that the standard mono mix was NOT made available as alternate audio on the disc (as it was on the "Yellow Submarine" DVD) is an oversight punishable by public stoning.
As for all the bonus material...not ONE interview with an actual Beatle? Not even McCartney? The closest we get is George Martin?
The person behind this mess is none other than Martin Lewis, self-proclaimed Beatle "expert" and all around media whore. Lewis' involvement explains why no-one at Apple would have anything to do with the project.  With some two-hours of useless interviews as "bonus" material, here's what you DON'T get:
The original theatrical trailers
The reissue theatrical trailers
The original theatrical "making-of" featurette
The surviving outtake footage ("You Can't Do That") [which, as a sidenote was left off the MPI DVD, making having the VHS & Laserdisc necessary]
The aforementioned MPI documentary DVD
Any surviving still photos of the other missing sequences
Running commentary on an alternate audio track
The promised (but not included) Richard Lester's "Running Jumping Standing Still Movie"
Anything of any relevance.
What makes this all the worse is that the image looks terrific.  However, it's been so horribly trashed that the only proper place for this DVD is the trash can or as a trade in at the used DVD store.
Anyone who owns the original MPI DVD should hold on to it and save thier tewnty bucks.
Thanks to my friend Steve for enlightening me on this...