Starring:
Benjamin Barrie: Matthew McConaughey
Andie Anderson: Kate Hudson
Benjamins Boss: Robert Klein
Team Judy:Michael Michele and Shalom Harlow
Michelle: Kathryn Hahn
Publisher: Bbe Neuwirth
MPAA Rating is a four star Rated PG-13 for some sex-related material. Running time is 100 min.
This movie is directed by Donald Petrie and written by Kristen Buckley, Brian Regan and Burr Steers.
I recently saw a "chick flick" How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days. Normally i wnjoy chick flicks and horror movies. So this one wasn't a big change for me although it is my favorite one yet. This particular movie is one of my favorite because it is halarious I laughed through out the whole movie. Kate Hudson does a wonderful job in this movie, along with Matthew McCaughy. I also think that anyone would like this movie (including guys) and I hope that you will go see it if u have not already.
This movie is loosely based on the book How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days: The Universal Don't Of Dating by Michele Alexander and Jeannie Long. How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days is about a guy named Benjamin Barrie (Matthew McCaughey) who is a mortorcycle riding, love 'em and leave 'em type personality. the hotshot copywriter is a renowned love hound at Warren A dvertising and his inability to settle down has caused his boss (Robert Klein) to assign the DeLaurer Diamonds account to his nemesis, Team Judy (Michael Michele and Shalom Harlow). swearing that he can get any woman to fall deeply in love with him in ten days until the official copyrighting assignment is announced at a lavish party, Team Judy sics him on the woman they know he can never land. this woman happens to be Andie Anderson (Kate Hudson), writer of "How To" column at Cosmo like Composer Magazine. Andie's pal Michelle (Kathryn Hahn) has been dumped yet again by another potential new boyfriend and publisher (Bebe Neuwirth) wants an article with all the nitty gritty details. ndie, deperate to do "serious" articles about politics and global warming, agrees to do the piece if she get5s kick up from the columnist ghetto, to feature writer.