The third story in the Millennium series begins precisely where the second ended.  Lisbeth is taken to the hospital.  Shot three times and buried alive, she needs emergency brain surgery to remove a bullet.  Her father is still alive and her half brother is still on the prowl.  Eventually Lisbeth is transferred to a Stockholm jail where she awaits trial for attempted murder.  In this story we learn the big backstory--not just Lisbeth's relationship with her father and half brother, but the relationship between Lisbeth's father and a secret security unit, unknown even to the Swedish prime minister.  These characters are anxious to remain anonymous.  That means eliminating witnesses (or, in Lisbeth's case, consigning her to an asylum, permanently).

Here's what to keep in mind.  You should not pay any attention to film critics who fail to perceive the film's genre.  Just because there are three books in the series, with a repeating cast of characters, you should not expect all three of the stories to be the same.  The first story is actually a 'locked room' mystery (a locked island mystery, to be precise).  The second story is very plot-driven, with far fewer atmospherics and the flavor of action/adventure.  The third story is quite different.  This is a legal thriller.  The 'complaint' that Lisbeth spends half of the film in the hospital and the other half in court is unfair.  Hey, this is Lisbeth.  Do you really think she's going to sit idly by and not play a pivotal role in her own defense?  And besides, we have the posse to end all posses: Blomkvist and the Millennium team, Lisbeth's former employer at the security agency and last, but most certainly not least, her hacker pal, Plague.  They are supported by Blomkvist's sister, who serves as Lisbeth's defense attorney, and a whole security team, investigating the secret security team.  There's plenty of conflict here between good and evil to satisfy any viewer and as the camera shifts from good guy to bad and the layers of Lisbeth's defense case are assembled, the (more cerebral) plot is riveting.

Finally, I don't want to give anything away, but trust me on this--Lisbeth is not going to be in the hospital or the court room forever.  Her crazed half brother is still at large and he's got some serious 'splainin to do, except that Lisbeth may cut that discussion short, in a way that only Lisbeth could conceive and execute.  The final scenes are, shall we say, very, very memorable.

As always, the direction is superb, the acting pitch perfect and the ending more satisfying than I could express (without spoiling it for all of you).

Given the genre and given what the film aspires to do, this is the top film in the series.