I'd heard about the 'discotech' bombings in Berlin, terrorists hijacking planes and the like coming out of Germany but this was one generation removed from me and nearing the end of the fight, so to speak. The bigger issue my generation saw was the fall of the Berlin wall and dissolution of the Soviet Union. So what was all that German/PLO terrorist stuff in the 70's about? This movie is your answer and actually speaks about many global issues we see today. It's prophetic in a sense.

It's difficult to succintly describe this movie without missing quite a bit of context and trivializing viewpoints, so some quick facts. A group of German left-wing young adults attack objects, human and structural, which they view as suppressive representations of Western Capitalism. People die on both sides. The group eventually looses its' leadership and fizzles out as its' ability to recruit willing participants becomes increasingly futile.

To ask 'who's right' and 'who's wrong' is infantile, or as another writer once put so well, one person's freedom fighter is another persons terrorist. What makes this group seem so terroristic is the proximity and intimacy of the attacks. The dead have faces, families, lives and the movie never removes us as far as say a remote stealth drone bomber to think otherwise. I find it odd and unfortunate that those who decry the members of this group as cold-blooded murderers don't apply the same logic to government sponsored warfare and subversion. Make no mistake, the Baader-Meinhof group kill people with force, without hesitation and without regret. Neither means of taking human life (gov't or terrorist) are 'good', but what makes a shotgun blast by the RAF morally inferior to being burned alive in a napalm bombing? As this movie is a pretty accurate document of the events surrounding the Baader-Meinhof group, this question must certainly be considered by the viewer.

It's easy to write the group off as brain-dead, leftist hippies with machine guns but the fact is they weren't. Most were college educated, many with advanced degrees and they worked with a political ideology as clear as any American founding father. And just like the founding fathers, most members had something to loose and chose to sacrifice that in the name of their cause, which takes us to the heart of this movie. What is the group's 'cause'?

I believe their initial cause was reactionary and perhaps slightly petty but we cannot discount that reaction. Here are a group of very intelligent people whose prior generation were the cause and support everything we fought against in WWII. It's easy to forget that many German authority figures at the time escaped judgement and occupied  positions of power. We hear so much about youth believing they have good cause to not trust authority but rarely does one have as much material circumstances to support such a belief. Would you trust a government comprised of former Nazi's to be fair, impartial and working for the greater good of your own country? Add to that condition  the Communistic/Capitalistic struggle (i.e. Iron Curtain) and put well-meaning, idealistic, extremist kids right in the center of it all. Is it hard to imagine this kind of thing taking place? Again, I'm not saying the RAF was 'right' nor am I justifying their actions but one can't accuse them of simply being base, angry, pointless rebels.  I believe they represented questions we still struggle to answer- namely the first world's relationship with the third world.

It's important to note that the group found support by pretty much everyone the US is currently in conflict with. A group of WESTERNERS were welcomed openly by 'the bad guys'. Perhaps the bad guys don't hate the West so much as it's popular political ideology. Certainly something to consider after watching this movie.

There are numerous things I like about the movie- the cool retro style, the attention to detail, the editing and fast pace, the linear story, but most of all I loved the characters. If the real leadership of the RAF were anything like these portrayals then it can at least be said they never lacked charisma, which plays a very important role in the entire movement. Ideology can only take any group so far but what pushes it beyond are charismatic leaders. It doesn't seem too hard to imagine a leftist idealist being seduced by the RAF during the timeframe. And keep in mind that the group initially had a fair amount of public support. Andreas Baader (portrayed by Moritz Bleibtreu) and Gudrun Ensslin (portrayed by Johanna Wokalek) come off as German rock stars with machine guns. I can't help but think of them as a modern day Bonnie and Clyde. What is particularly interesting is how the two take advantage of the apologetic former German government's version of political correctness to bend the legal system to their will. Again, so many parallels with our modern world.

And then the conclusion. The leadership is either murdered or commits suicide, you have to come to your own conclusion.  It's fair to say they were headed that way in a hurry from the start but it leaves one with the question of whether or not it was worth it. Did the RAF leadership waste their lives on a pointless cause or did it have meaning and impact? As much as I condone violence it's fair to say the government did recognize the group's potential for changing the political game. Perhaps if the RAF had greater political connections they might have been had the kind of say the IRA currently does in Ireland. Love them or hate them, paint them heroes or villians, the government DID listen to them more than they did to the protesters whom they summarily beat with night sticks.

Incredible, must-see movie.