Long seen more as a star vehicle than the reverent look at the old West it truly was, "Silverado" finally gets the treatment it has deserves on this great DVD.  Now we can witness the climatic gunfight between Paden  and Cobb without one character or the other being cropped out of the  picture.  Lawrence and Mark Kasdan have written the most joyful and  spirited movie set in the old West since the days of the Duke's on-screen  romps with Maureen O'Hara.  The performances of the principal actors here  were right-on-the-mark (Kevin Kline being excellent as always) and I was  pleased that an African-American was finally given a chance to shine as a  real Western hero and as a lead character (an awesome performance by Danny  Glover).  The real revelation here is Kevin Costner's wild and  free-spirited turn as Jake; the only downside is that his subsequent  efforts now appear so wooden by comparison.  And who can forget the  landscapes?!  I could tell from the opening scene when Scott Glenn exits  the shanty and we are treated to a spectacular view of the plains and  valley below that the photography in this film would be something to  behold.  It truly was.  About the only thing there is to complain about is  the underwritten role of the frontier woman played by Rosanna Arquette.  I  really don't think that enough was done with her, and seemed that Paden's  attentions shifted too quickly from her toward Linda Hunt's Stella.  The  Kasdans themselves conceded in the featurette accompanying the DVD that  they were disappointed at how the character had turned out.  They alluded  to scenes featuring Arquette that were ultimately cut from the movie.  I  definitely would like to have seen them, and wish they were included on the  disc.  But this is a small quibble.  Any fan of the Western genre -- and  fans of Kevin Kline, Danny Glover, Scott Glenn, and Kevin Costner -- will  love the joy and heroic drama that jumps from the screen.  You cannot watch  "Silverado" and come away feeling anything but happy.