If Bill Murray was movie history's worst Scrooge, and he was, then Alastair Sim was its greatest. The problem with Ebenezer Scrooge is that he is such a great character that actors envitably want to put their interpretation to the fore and leave the Dickensonian essence quietly alone within the pages of A Christmas Carol.

Scrooge is a redemptive character not because he was visited by three ghosts and scared straight, but rather because he was a lost soul who found his way home. He was at rock bottom good, but had grown up in a world where kindness and virtue were chump values. Ebenezer's raw ambitition caused him to bury his essential nature deep within him, and he came to believe he was just as the world saw him.

Scrooge is a very much the kind of businessman dominates the contemporary Western world...an early day Gordon Gecko. Dickens has plans for him however, and he is made to see who he was, and what he has become.

Sim's genius lies in his ability to transform his character. The scene at the offices where the 19th century equivalent of the United Way is illustrative. Told of the needs of the poor, Scrooge asks, "Why? Are there no prisons? Are there no workhouses?" Scrooge supports these institutions through his taxes, and sees no need of doing anything more. What he wants is clear, "I want to be left alone."

Because Alastair Sim plays Charles Dickens' Scrooge and not his own and because Brian Desmond Hurst the director saw the bitter social commentary that lay within this fable, this remains the most satisfying film of the classic.

Now a few words about the DVD. It comes in several formats...a restored B&W version, a 16:9 B&W version, and a colorized version. A bonus of a 1935 version staring Seymour Hicks is included, but not the only other comparably great Scrooge, Reginald Owen from the 1938 edition. The colorized version takes away from Hurst initially dark vision, and is a distraction. The film was originally shot in a 1.33:1 aspect ration, and the 16:9 widescreen would seem ill adapted to it. However it proves to be little distraction on a widescreen monitor.