Going into this, one may wonder (justifiably) what to expect. Bands past their prime?  A sad collection of tired musicians parading out their old hits?  In fact, it is anything but that.  Surprising, in a way, since both groups are missing original and key members.  But not surprising, since both have remained popular for over three decades, and are filled with fantastic performers who have the ability to play and write songs that are anything but easy to transfer from album to stage, and who do it with occasional greatness.  Not every song hits the mark, but there are moments of absolutely transcendant musical enjoyment -- certainly in every single song that the two bands play together -- but even in some of the songs each band plays on its own.

The differences between the bands?  EWF has fewer original members, but really works the crowd, old school in its efforts to involve the audience, and it sounds fantastic.  Chicago is and always has been a musician's band -- complex arrangements and surprising power at unexpected moments -- with the real surpise coming in the times it gets the crowd jumping and rocking.  No single member charismatic in the way that Philip Bailey is in EWF, but as an ensemble that's played with its current line-up for over twelve years it is simply terrific - the sum greater than the parts.  Robert Lamm's voice is a marvel.

As for the beginning and the end of the concert -- when the two bands come together -- unbelievable.  The sound and picture quality on the DVD immerses you in the entire experience in a way that showed how exciting it must have been to be there.  In the finale, there's one hit after another, programmed in just the right order, each building on the last -- giving truth to what a friend of mine said -- 'the best concert I've ever seen."  Arguable, of course, but you can tell that these two groups love playing together, and the grooves they find in each and every song provide an exciting experience, even at home in your own living room.  Buy this if you are even the slightest fan of either group, and you will walk away happy.