If you are someone like me who finally admitted to themselves that they LOVED "Here Come the Brides" (Season One) and finally decided to buy it only to find that it's now $500.00 then this review is the one you will want to read.

Let's deal with the "bad news" first...(i.e. the cost and the fact that you might not get the version of the "Seattle" song you want so badly.)

Why is Season One so nose-bleed expensive?  Two simple facts: 1. Sony stopped making it.  2.  Apparently in 2006 they never released that many copies anyway so it sold out really, really FAST.

I will now admit that I didn't pay $500.00 for Season One.  I managed to get a USED copy that was in tolerable shape at a Sam Goody's that was closing for $18.95, which by the way was what Season One cost NEW when Sony first released it...so I didn't get much of a bargin until you consider the fact that everybody else is charging $200.00 for a used copy.

Is Season One worth $500.00?  Well...although the box is cute and the packaging is superior, the actual quality of the discs are only OK.  You need to remember that between 2006 when Sony released Season One and now (2012) the quality of dubbing has improved.  By 2006 standards the picture and sound are great, by today's standards (six years later) not so great.  In fact the Season Two videos re-released by SHOUT Factory are AWESOME (way better than the Sony Season one version.)  More about SHOUT and Season Two below..but back to Season One.

If you loved that opening theme like I did...you MUST realize that the VOCAL version was from SEASON TWO!!!!!!!!  Season One was an instrumental version. It's the same wonderful song by Hugo Montenegro, but ABC didn't put the vocal version into circulation until the SECOND SEASON.  Even Wikipedia gets this wrong when they state that the vocal was put in half-way through the first season...it WASN'T!!!!  If you remember the vocal from Season One, you are remembering wrong.  To make it worse, since the song got so popular some stations re-ran Season One versions where THEY actually dubbed in the song over the original instrumental, further confusing the issue.  So if you want to spend $500.00 to hear the song again...DON'T buy Season One because it's NOT there!!!!  The instrumental version however is also quite beautiful...but not $500.00 beautiful.

You are now probably asking yourself is Amazon.com trying to rip you off with such a high price.  NO...look carefully at who is selling it.  These are independent dealers who have their stuff on Amazon.com.  Are these guys taking advantage of the fact that everybody wants this season...you bet.  There is nothing Amazon.com can do about this.  And before you blame these dealers you must consider that this is happening to virutally everything popular and collectable that goes out of print.  I have some martial arts books that are Paperbacks that are now worth hundreds of dollars.  I bought them back in 1978 for a couple of bucks.

So what do you do if you want Season One?  There are other ways to get it, but I'd like to suggest that if you are reading this review you take the time to mobilize yourself and your friends to petition SHOUT Factory to re-release Season One.  SHOUT Factory now has the rights to the series!!!  Get enough buzz going and I'm certain they will put Season One out ASAP.  So don't get mad at Amazon.com or it's dealers...if anyone is to blame for this mess it's SONY who really didn't give a damn about the series anyway.  Instead think positive, and start getting family and friends to get SHOUT Factory to put out Season Two.

Now for the good news: SHOUT Factory acquired the rights to the series and released Season Two.

Although technically speaking this should be a separate review, I'm assuming that like me, you came here looking forward to buying BOTH seasons.  It's good to compare the latest version with SONY's to hopefully convince you to petition the new owners of the Series to put out Season One again.

First packaging.  I will admit that compared to the original SONY version, SHOUT Factory's simpler and much more minimalist.  So packaging wise SONY is better.  However what matters is what is on the DVD.

When we look at Video quality SHOUT Factory wins hands down!  The newer technology re-release is excellent compared to the now dated six-year old technology SONY used.  The colors pop, it looks great.  Sound is still something of a problem due to the 1960's technology the show originally used...but here too the newer version is clearly superior.  To sum it up, DVD wise, SHOUT factory's version blows the older SONY version away.  (But remember, we're talking Season Two here...SHOUT Factory hasn't re-released Season One, at least not yet.)

Let's segue to the subject of DVD extras.  SONY really has nothing.  SHOUT Factor has interviews with Jonathan Etter, the WRITER of much of the show.  The interviews are fun and enlightening...(putting to rest once and for all that he based the show on "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers...he DIDN'T...although it's possible the producers thought he did.)

So despite the fact that SHOUT Factory has more modest packaging, the quality of the videos coupled with the extras is so superior to SONY that when you buy Season Two I sincerely hope and pray that you are inspired to start petitioning SHOUT Factory to re-release Season One!

"Here Come the Brides" is one of the best t.v. series ever made.  Sadly it lasted only two seasons because ABC switched it's time slot.  But it left a trememdous impression on all of us who watched.

It's my hope that once you read this review you'll be inspired to get the new owners of the rights to the series (SHOUT factory) to re-release Season One.

So is Season One worth $500.00?  Maybe...BUT...if you consider the fact that we might be able with pressure to get it re-released in a BETTER version than SONY's I'd think twice before I shelled out the money.  Better to get SHOUT Factory to re-release Season One in their newer, superior version with the wonderful extras than pay $500.00 for SONY's clearly inferior product.