Of all the many musicals made in the 30's through the 60's, there are only a few that I would consider to be truly classics (Singing In The Rain, Wizard of Oz, West Side Story) But, of all the classic musicals, Meet Me In St. Louis is at the top.
Since the storyline and extra's have already been reviewed many times I would like to comment on historical accuracy. As many of you may know, most movies made - especially in the 1940's and 1950's - skimp on historical accuracy. All that one has to do is to see the many westerns and WWII flicks that were released at the time. Not that those movies aren't entertaining or enjoyable, but let's face it, the main job of the director and producer was to put out pure entertainment and showcase their stars, with little regard for anything else. Meet Me In St. Louis also fits that description with one very big exception: Minnelli and company strove to give this movie as authentic a look as they possibly could. From the Victorian houses (inside and out - in the 40's and 50's virtually all who owned one of these historic beauties white washed the interior as to dispurse with the old fashioned wooden look for the new modern painted look), to the garish clothing, which one reviewer insinuated was not really worn by people at the turn of the century. Well, one look at an old Sears catalogue will show that, yes, women really did wear the clothing you see Judy and her fellow actors wearing. In fact,  it was from a 1903 Sears catalogue the the costumers got their information for the clothing worn in this movie. How accurate is that?
There are many other details to historical accuracy Minnelli and his troupe strived for, so much so that, as stated in the Making Of on disc two, this movie is like seeing a picture from the past come alive.
By the way, if you want to see just how people who owned these beautiful homes in the 50's and 60's nearly ruined the asthetic appearances of these Victorian homes, watch the 1966 pilot episode for TV included in this set and you'll see what I mean by white washing.
So, with all you have read in the many reviews here (the music, the storyline, the look and feel and historical accuracy, the extra's, the super high quality of the restoration, and the entertainment value), what are you waiting for? Get this movie!