"Network" is looking more and more prescient. Media is in the hands of a few companies, and they are deciding what the US should watch. Lets go back in history.

In 1968 the MPAA developed a rating system for films. The highest rating was X, for adults only. A year later, Midnight Cowboy was rated X. Both lead actors were nominated for Academy Awards, and awards were won for best picture, director, and screenwriter.

Today, NC-17 (the equivalent of the earlier X) is the kiss of death. Newspapers won't run ads and theater chains, such as AMC and SONY, won't play them. BLockbuster and WalMart won't carry DVD's with that adult rating. Adults are kept from seeing any pictures that depict sexual activities (or in some cases, merely nudity), but have easy access to pictures that display inhumane levels of violence, torture, and sadism.

How did the US get this way? Why, in most of the rest of the first world, is violence condemned and sex acknowledged. Why, in the US, was Brokeback Mountain a center of controversy, while European and South American movies have dealt with homosexuality for years?

It's because we've lost control over our lives. Somehow, we've allowed others to determine what is right and moral and accessible to us as adults. This is what the movie explores.

If you're not upset after watching it, then you're content to make others decide for you what you're going to watch. If you don't wonder why nudity is forbidden on broadcast US TV but violence and close-ups of dead and rotting bodies (think CSI) are allowed, then you've surrendered your status as an adult.

Be mad as hell. Write the studios, theaters, and congress about your concerns. Try to understand what has made violence acceptable and sex obscene, when it should be the other way around.

And if you wonder why I'm not discussing the movie directly, my reaction to it should serve to either have you watch it or keep it at arm's length. In any event, you won't find it at your local Blockbuster, WalMart, or SAM's. They won't carry NC-17 or unrated movies. Make your displeasure known and buy or rent through companies that let YOU decide what is appropriate.

So do you still feel you're an adult? That you have personal freedom about your choices of entertainment? Hmmm. Watch "This Film Is Not Yet Rated." Then think again.