There has yet to be a successful adaptation of Mansfield Park. I was hoping PBS, of all people, would produce something akin to tolerable for Austen fans, but this is yet another disappointment. I agree with the other reviewers that the first half was very choppy. I think the adapters were trying to rush through elements of the story that they feel are problematic - primarily the play business, which is even confusing in the novel if you're unaware of social context.

But why can't anyone do justice to poor Fanny Price? Even many fans dislike her as a character but she is one of my favorites. I find this version's Fanny very strange, she spends most of her time chasing small children and dogs, much to the puzzlement of all and seems to have some hair styling issues. Jane's Fanny is a waif who never moves faster than a slow crawl, unless atop a horse and then I'm sure never faster than a trot. She's described as unattractive and forgettable, a perpetual martyr, and definitely something less than a true part of the Bertram family. She's painfully shy and terrified of Mr. Betram, though she does love him as a father.

And lastly, I find the portrayal of Mrs. Bertram utterly laughable! To imply that she's so observant and attached so dearly to Fanny is ridiculous. The novel's Mrs. Betram is a dreadfully lazy moron who spends all her time getting Fanny to do her needlework for her (especially the difficult bits) and sleeping. She treats Fanny as a servant and gives her a cold unheated bedroom to live in. She evens tries to pawn her off on Aunt Norris (though Norris treats Fanny even worse than the Betrams and luckily Fanny's spared this fate).

The simple truth is that most film adapters are afraid the public won't like Fanny Price and maybe they're right. Everyone always says Jane Austen endures because her characters are relatable, even a hundred years later, but maybe Mansfield Park can't make the transition. Unfortunately, most filmmakers have been too afraid to even try.