Funny this 2003 film was not widely released in movie theaters. I think it would have done well. I realize though that Jessica Alba had not appeared in a major movie yet at that time, maybe that's what had caused the reservations to not show it widely in theaters.

The movie is set in Sarawak, Malaysia in 1930. A young British officer arrives with high ambitions to continue the work that his father (killed in the war) had started, namely to bring education to the native Iban tribe. He is paired with a so-called sleeping dictionary, in his case a bi-lingual native (Alba) with the intent to fast-teach him the local language using her bedroom skills.

I found all the acting to be pretty decent, including Alba's. She did go back and forth between having an accent and not having one, and also between being an Iban and being Alba. I admit though that being male it's probably impossible to not like her however bad her acting would be :-) . Hugh Dancy was believable in transforming from a stiff British college grad to a likeable young man. Bob Hoskin (self-proclaimed "god" in the colony) did a good job representing the values of the motherland while still showing heart and overall being fair and likeable.

The set of course offers breathtaking views of the jungle, and the depiction of the natives is believable. I was glad for the happy ending (I am a sucker for feel-good movies I admit), although how well both Bob's character and his 100% british daughter, now the wife of the young officer, take his departure (after all, they just learned that his wife is pregnant), is of course indeed very nice and shows their maturity as humans, but altogether not fully believable. This would be too good to be true in real life.

This is a movie that shows some of the conflicts inevitable when such different cultures as the stiff British society of 70 years ago and an unencumbered live-in-the-day people like friendly Malaysian head-hunters of those days interfere with each other. It does not go really deep though in explaining the conflicts and will not leave you all stirred up.