This review is for the Blu-ray release of the movie only. For a critical review of the movie itself, there are many others available (although, for the record, I think this is a funny and a recommended film).
Like the other Monty Python movies, I first saw this film when it was released to theaters in the USA many years ago. My memory of it was that the colors were not particularly lush and that the film had that 1970's more-grain-than-it-needs-to-have look. I have not seen the film since, so either my memory is wrong or someone has done something very right with this high definition transfer -- Visually, this is an excellent transfer and release to Blu-ray disc. Do not expect it to be as sharp and detailed as the high def restoration of the large negative Vista-Vision originated film "The Searchers", nor is it as fine grain and colorful as a recent film like the Blu-ray disc release of "Hairspray", but, for this type of film, this is something close to perfection. The source material must have been in good shape (and the transfer contains no dirt or print marks!). More color than any Python film in my memory. The film is sharp and yet there is no "objectionable film grain" (and this is rare, as often when they transfer an old film-to-HD or Video, they use so much "grain reduction" and "dirt fixing" technology that they turn the image into a soft mush -- That is not the case here.) I could not have predicted a better job.
My only complaint is with the sound mix. While as clear and clean as one might expect, this slight re-mix for 5.1 digital surround has done what so many new movies do today: If you set the level right for the music, the dialogue will be so low as to need subtitles. If you set it right for the dialogue, you will have to cover your ears because the music will blast you out of the room. This seems to be a common arrogance on the part of sound mixers today -- Because we have such dynamic range in audio recording & reproduction today, the sound mixers use it to an extreme that no one concerned with the aesthetics of good sound mixing could or should accept. Fortunately, there are only about 3 or 4 places in the movie that this is a problem (Warning: One is at the start of the movie), and the excessively loud music is over points in the movie that are not inter-mixed with dialogue (so, while it is wrong and one should not have to do such, just keep the sound remote control handy).