This movie was not very good.  I actually just finished watching it for the second time, as I watched it in the theatres originally and disliked it a lot.  I thought a second vewing now, a few years later, would change my mind since so many of my friends and acquaintances raved about this movie and particularly about Lisa Kudrow's performance.  
It's amazing how watching this movie again just confirms how mediocre this movie is.  My biggest complaint is that the characters act so illogically, non-sensically, and stupidly.  Don't get me wrong, plenty of great movies have characters do stupid things and we love them and the movies anyway because we can connect their poor lack of judgement with our own and the complexity of the characters gives us a rich opportunity to study their foibles.
Not this movie.  I'll spare you the details since a synopsis is available in many other reviews.  My point is really around Martin Donovan's character Bill and Lisa Kudrow's character Lucia.  Bill is still stung over the death of his previous boyfriend and finds his current boyfriend has been messing around with Bill's half-sister who's staying with him after being on the streets ("I told you I was bisexual").  Throughout the movie Bill has the personality of a dead fish, provides no rationale for why he keeps chasing both his loser half-sister and even-more loser boyfriend half-way across the country trying to stop her from drinking and smoking during her pregnancy, and allowing her to extort him for money.  I guess I couldn't connect with his actions, the wild goose chase, and overall unwillingness to kiss off this sister who seems to hold him in total contempt.
Lucia follows Bill on this wild goose chase of his sister and boyfriend, making for a sort of chase-of-a-chase.  Maybe I missed something, but I don't see her character's motivation.  I am a HUGE fan of Lisa Kudrow on "Friends", but I wasn't terribly impressed with her acting in this movie.  It wasn't horrible, but not worthy of the raves I have heard.
Maybe one star is too harsh, but my "butt-fidget-o-meter" was on high during this film (that's when a movie is a tad too boring and I start shifting in my seat).  I wouldn't waste money on buying this movie. Just rent it, or better yet borrow it for free from the poor sap you may know who actually bought it.