You should go see "The Day After Tomorrow" because it is full of intensity and because of its realistic scenes.  However if you were someone who doesn't believe in the world ending I wouldn't go so this.

I watched this movie on November 22 of 2005 at home by myself.  It was 2 hrs. and 4 minutes with a PG-13 rating and was directed by Roland Emmerich.  I have also watched this in previous times with my family.  It was definitely different watching it the second time because you already know the whole story but since it is such a wonderful movie with breathe taking visual effects you still focus in on it.  My family also thought it was a great movie.

This movie received great reviews.  Roger Ebert of Chicago Sun-times thought that the movie was silly but at the same time was very intrigued with the special effects.  That is one of the strengths that I also found fascinating in the movie and how real they made each scene seem.  They also had great actors and actresses that made the movie full of feelings.  You can really tell that the actors were feeling the scenes.  They all gave a wonderful performance and they all came together for a marvelous performance.

It's full of excitement and keeps you wanting more at the end.  They had it made so realistic that it makes you think what if it happened on this time frame that you are living in now.  The story is developed from researchers in the middle of a huge glacier trying to gather information and with the start of the tragedies.  The catastrophes happen right after the other but you never know what it's going to be next; whether it'll be a huge earth wake or just everyone dying and the world ending.  This movie was very scary in its own way because it showed what would happen in the feature and how anything can happen in an instant.  If you were someone who was even afraid of dying would probably pee your pants if you watched this movie.  I think people with phobias of that sort would not sleep for days having nightmares of the situations in the movie.

 They had great special affects using CGI.  Their scenes looked so real you wouldn't think it was done on a computer.  All the weather conditions looked like it took time and was developed greatly.  I thought that the scenes of Los Angeles and New York were the best.  This movie was filled with great images which made it look so realistic.

I didn't know that so much was involved in our world.  How we actually have real researchers out there trying to keep up with matter like this that would affect our world.  This movie showed that once there is a problem then it must be announced to leaders around the world.  This movie makes you think what if this happened tomorrow.

 Never take your life for granted because anything can happen tomorrow.  Always be prepared and be smart about situations.  Watch this movie because it sure will make you think about what revolves around you.  I recommend this movie to be watched it is worth your money.