I love this movie.
I've watched it many times over and am always discovering more depth to the script and screenplay.  
Paul Newman plays  the title character with the cool, easy going grace the part calls for.  Cool Hand Luke is content with passing time, just as long as he is given a  little elbow room for his independent nature.  But he is given no room to  manuever by The Man.  Just like in "One Flew Over the Cookoos  Nest", our hero is bigger and better than their antagonist, except for  the fact that time is one the side of the jailor.  As in his brutal fight  with Dragline (George Kennedy), Luke is fighting with a "hand full of  nuthin".  His fighting philosophy is like The Clash lyric, "We're  gonna fight, till you lose".  
Luke can take all The Man gives and  more, until tragically, his mother dies.  The prison warden decides that he  must lock Luke down, just when Luke is feeling the most claustrophobic; He  needs the opposite.  
Luke will not bend to the guards intimidation, and  the guards will not give Luke the elbow room he so desperately needs.  Especially because he is the viewed as an near-deity by the other  prisoners.  
There are many illusions to Luke as Christ.  Is Luke an  unwilling Christ figure?  I don't know.  He is to the prisoners.  He is  viewed as a mythic hero by the other prisoners.  He is the best eater, the  best worker in the Bull-Gang, the best musician, the best poker player, the  best escapee.  But his disciples abandon him in this time of greatest need.  He is looking for answers from The Man (and I don't mean Boss Godfrey),  but gets no reply.  Watch for the symbolism throughout.  
There is also  much to enjoy for the casual viewer.  This film has many classic scenes and  lines.  "I ken eat 50 ehhgs", Lucille at the car wash (Oh Baby!),  "What we got here is failure to communicate", and "Saying  its your job don't make it right, Boss".  Paul Newman is easy on the  eyes.  And the supporting cast, lead by chief disciple George Kennedy, is  superb.  I also enjoyed the Christian music throughout.