The film opens with a very moody and atmospheric prologue in which an eerrie looking bearded gent ( who resembles the famed medieval seer Nostrodamous )emphaticaly declares "I am the only one who knows the secret!  Incredible!  Incredible!!  Yet it's true!  It must be!!".  He then trecks to an archeological excavation site and then, while hammering some rock, encounters a horrifying apparition with the aspect of an ancient decayed cadaver,. .standing,.. . and then walking toward him!!  Then seizing and aparently devouring him!!!Then the title appears and the the main "story" unfolds,.. and this interesting character is barely even heard of again nor is this declared "secret" of his ever divulged.  The remainder of the film concerns a party of vacationers, including a mother and her young son, who arive at a ruraly-secluded chateau. After a single night of romance and eros and morning of frolickry in the garden,the horror transpires!!  Firstly, the chateaus entire electrical system is obliterated by a supernaturaly-charged power surge, thus plunging the ill-fated protagonists into darkness!!  Then, they are beset by a teeming mass hord of numerous beings with rotted visages and wearing fetid sackcloths (shall we call them "zombies"? )who immerse the doomed protagonists in a terrible onslaught of grisly death in divers fashion ( beheading, impalement, mastication, dissmemberment, dissembowelment ). Hence Burial Ground is, quite simply, a slaughter film. It's purpose being to depict the gruesome deaths of it's protagonist "characters" ( it even ends very abruptly right when the last remaining cast member is murderd,.. the whole closing credit roll being opticaly imposed over a freeze shot of her death scene ). Yet still, be that as it may, it actually does have it's few truely creepy, pretty frightening ( the appearance of the first zombie, during the opening prologue sequence, is quite frightening ) and creative moments ( mostly displayed in the numerous death scenes on which the film, again, is mainly focused )and a truely dreamlike quality over-all.
Something must also be said for the zombies in this film,. .. they are clever and resourceful ( certainly more so than in most other movies ).  For example, in what is the films most imaginative death scene, they captivate a victim ( located on a high balcony and attempting to close a shutter ) by nailing her hand to a wall with a spike thrown from a distance and apparently with supernatural agility and force.  She is then decapitated with a scythe ( with a VERY lonnnnnng stem ). They also gain entry into the locked up chateau by chopping away the barricades with axes and even battering the door in with a ram. And,in another scene, even ensnare some fleeing victims by decoying as a groupe of praying monks in an old monestary.
The music of the film is also notable and worth some description here. For the more harrowing and grisly scenes theres what sounds like old fashiond 1950's/60's style monster movie theme music ( which was probably left over from another older film ) complete with a howling theramin, an unearthly and eerrily beautiful synth score used for the more sedately creepy scenes ( including the previously related prologue sequence involving the profesor character and also during the closing production credits ), a luscious piano score for the more passionate scenes, and a jazz score ( also probably canned and played mainly during the opening tittle & cast credits ).
And theres the dialogue!!  Ahhh yes, we do have some truely wonderful and memorable bad dialogue here indeed!! So much so, in fact,that I even think that some sample quotes are definately in order!  For example, theres ... .. .

"We've wasted an entire morning inside!  Why did we come to the country?!  To twiddle our thumbs cooped up in a mausoleum?!

.. or how about ..... ... .. .

"Well I've always been just TERRIFIED of the dead!  I hope we're going to leave them in peace!

.. or try ..... . ..

"Ohhhhh GOD!!!!! What is it???!!!!!!!  Ohhhh Mark,.. it's HORRIBLE!!!!!!!!

"I dont know!!!!! .. . But it's not human!!!!!!  It's a walking CORPSE!!!!!!

"Ohhhhh,.. Mark!!!!!!  Ohh God, I'm just TERRIFIED Mark!!!!!

.. but, great as those above-quoted lines may be, the single BEST line of dialogue in this movie is incontesibly and without a doubt ...... ... .. . .

"(whiff.. whiff ) . .. Moma,.. this old cloth,.. . smells of death?!

.. . all of it deliverd in truely AWFUL dubbed voices!!  SO terrible, in fact, that they actualy sound like the voices of demented cartoon characters!!
Burial Ground is most certainly a film which the normal sane average movie viewer would call a "bad" film, as it does feature terrible performances and virtualy no plot,.. . yet strangely THAT actually kind of WORKS for it!  As I'de noted previously, one of it's cooler points is it's authenticaly dreamlike, or better yet nightmarish quality,.. . and this is that very rare and exceptional kinde of film in which a lack of plot actually ENHANCES that quality. Well THINK about it, . . have YOU ever had an actual DREAM ( the real kind, like when your asleep )with a PLOTline? .. I surely never have. Oh, and this film also has a treasured element of pervers sexuality in the presence of a young boy ( conspicuously portrayed by a creepy looking adult midget named Peter Bark ) with an oedipal longing for his mother,.. . or more specificaly, a yearn to be breast-fed by her, which gives it a quality of true dementedness. A truely esoteric cult "bad" horror film for slightly deranged fans ONLY.

P.S. My sole complaint about this DVD version here is that it does not feature the neato original poster art ( as my old vhs copy does ), instead featuring this stoopid and tacky still-photo on it's cover!  I do hope that'll be corrected in some future edition.