I read the book when I was a little girl and was enraptured with the world of both Sara Crewe and the stories she would tell of far-away lands and princesses. As always, I heed great caution in books-turned-movie, but in this case it's not needed-- the movie is, I dare say, better than the book.

The first thing that draws the attention of the viewer is the use of color-- vibrant hues engulf the screen and one remembers (if only for a few seconds) what their childhood imagination was like so many years ago. For children who are seeing the movie, the lens of the camera mirrors that of a child's: brilliant and luminous. In fact, the color and lighting throughout the movie is one way this film retains its magic over the years. When seeing the lighting and colors for the film 'Harry Potter III' it's not surprising that the two films have the same great director.

As for the score of the film, the exotic music provides a great juxtaposition to the traditional and sometimes harsh background of England circa 1900's. India's culture is portrayed with its best foot forward (which considering Britain's imperialist attitude towards the nation at the time, isn't such a bad lesson for kids in multiculturalism and diversity).

Both the music and colors of the film make it a good addition to the already-strong theme of the book, which is also enhanced in the movie.

As for the theme, every little kid should heed the lesson of this movie well. While Millennials were raised with the assumption that they are indeed special snowflakes, this book reinforces the notion in beautiful, rich cinematography. All girls are, after all, a little princess.

Aside from promoting self-esteem and individuality, the movie also encourages tolerance, questioning authority, loving one's parents, following your heart, determination, and standing up for your beliefs.

The premise of the movie is simple enough: a young, affluent British girl raised in India is sent to boarding school. Though at odds with the strict, embittered headmistress, she makes friends with the other pupils through telling her elaborate fairy tails. Her life changes immediately when her father, still in India, is injured and presumed dead. Immediately impoverished, Sara must face her new fate as a child servant to the boarding school. It's only when she meets, unexpectedly, an old family friend that she pieces her life back together. Though the movie ends with a more Spielberg-esque ending than the book, the conclusion still left me in tears.

I couldn't praise this movie any higher. Though I'm a 20-something college student, I would recommend this movie for people of all ages since the story is just so beautifully told in this film.