This is a film that needs and deserves to be seen more than once. The first viewing you should just immerse yourself in it, absorb the imagery, feel with the characters. If you get confused, stay with it.(SPOILER ALERT)  Then when you watch it again you will start to understand the context and realize just how wonderful it is. It needs to be viewed this way because it takes place primarily inside a human mind processing its own life and death, moving in and out of  various states of consciousness. In this world , thoughts become active characters.

 It is important that you don't know this initially, so that you experience this reality the same way that Henry does. You must become confused as Henry does and become engaged in the search with him: the search for answers, meaning and ultimately forgiveness. This is the mind's reality and should be the viewer's as well.  We can debate later on, if what the mind believes to be real is the true reality. The point is, it believes it to be real and it is real in the sense that it is it's sincere journey, embarked upon with honest fear, grief , guilt, and confusion, trying to make sense of it all .

 So you follow Henry's journey, from various states of  awareness. Henry's mind in one state, hears the voices and sees some of the faces of the people trying to help him.  He pulls in these characters from the outside world ,and creates aspects of himself from them when he goes into a deeper sub-conscious state. Not being aware of what is inside and outside, (`I hear voices, can you tell me which ones are real",) he asks  Sam, who enters his world to try and save him.

 In this state, the human mind does not realize what characters are actually extensions of  it's own personality. So we watch the story of Sam the caring psychiatrist, and Lila the post suicidal artist, who Henry has pulled from the outside world, and creates aspects of himself from them to help him save his life, but they are created from his mind not objective reality.  In reality they are the two people closest to him as he lay dying on the street.

 He brings these characters and others, into his deeper state, where they converge with the vivid imagery of Henry's past: his thoughts, memories, emotions and artistic perspective. This is a visually stunning world, that shifts often and in interesting ways, the way the sub-conscious works.  For example, Lila reflects aspects of Henry's personality, in regard to his own fragile artistic persona, that is also suicidal, can't paint on meds, wonders if their art is any good  and if they will be remembered. That they are one and the same is realized by Henry, only when Lila discovers that her art is signed by Henry and she runs to the fence.  This is Henry starting to move back towards the conscious world.

The sub-conscious mind as playwright, has its own way of dealing with problems and what it sees makes sense, but it is in a type of code that the conscious mind must translate before there is discovery and understanding. But this is the true  life and death struggle of the mind, and it is real.  Unlike some gimmick in lesser work, that releases the writer from explanation, and makes the audience feel cheated, this is the authentic reality of the mind.  So what you have watched has placed you inside the mind, and rather than detaching you, you have joined in the most intimate way, with another human being.  What you come away with after seeing this film is who Henry is, but it is his sub-conscious mind that has told most of the story.

 Henry decides that it is too late for him and accepts death. The suicide that occurs on the bridge, ironically jolts him back to life in the conscious world,("I have to wake up now"), where he sees the faces of Sam and Lila trying to help him. Sam tells him that the accident was not his fault, he was driving behind him and saw the tire blow out. This releases Henry from his guilt. My guess is that Henry felt he was to blame because he stopped taking meds so he could paint, and thought it might have affected his driving. (You get hints of that from other places in the film). But it is also from Sam that Henry learns that all the passengers are dead. . At this point , you come to the realization that Henry was driving with Athena,( who he was going to ask to marry him that night, because he had the ring), and his parents, when the accident happens.

As Lila speaks to Henry, he sees the face of his beloved and asks her to marry him.  The kind Lila, (who is a nurse), holds him and accepts.  Then Henry dies, joining Athena.

When Sam and Lila, (who do not know each other) move away from the body, a flash of D&eacute;j&agrave; vu occurs. Sam feels some connection to Lila and asks her to have coffee with him. It is possible that a soul that has left his body, but has not moved on yet, can influence the mind of the living. (Henry may have wanted to repay their kindness to him.) There also is the idea of alternate realities.

 Whatever conclusion you  would choose, Henry has been released from his pain and can move on, and the relationship between Sam and Lila shows promise.

The writing  ,direction, and acting are all first rate.