Here's a fact any sane person would recognize: pulling on a pair of tights and prancing around Hollywood Boulevard for tip money doesn't make you a superhero. What the subjects of this documentary don't quite get, though, is that it doesn't really make you an actor, either. But then, nobody is ever going to accuse this film's Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman or Incredible Hulk of having a stranglehold on reality.

Which brings us to the subject of delusion - a central theme of "Confessions of a Superhero." It's not that this film's four main figures are completely in orbit. In fact, a couple of them seem pretty sane. A couple of them. Even the dream of becoming a movie star - as monumentally farfetched as it may be - is shared by enough of the population that it alone can't reasonably be called pathological. But, combine a lack of self-awareness with profoundly poor judgment about how to go about actually achieving stardom and what do you get? Well, a really angry guy in a Batman suit.

Angry Batman seems to be delusional about a lot of things. He wants to be an actor, but attributes his lack of success, in part, to looking 'too much like George Clooney.' He fancies himself a martial arts expert but seems confused following even the simplest instructions in kung-fu school. Oh, and he tells questionable tales of hits he's made as a muscle guy for the Mob. (This he spills to a shrink while wearing full, dimestore Batman garb.) By contrast, the Superman-fixated Christopher Dennis seems positively sunny. Sure, he goes around spinning yarns of illustrious parentage, and he does seem to confuse building Superman-themed dioramas out of cardboard with building an acting career. But what the hell? At least he's getting his face out there for people in the business to see! Not that the 'people in the business' spend much time on Hollywood Boulevard having their pictures taken with lanky guys in bad Superman outfits, but that's how this delusion thing works.

To be fair, the Batman and Superman we see here seem much more out of whack than the film's other principals. The guy in the Hulk suit seems like a sweet man...and he does manage to catch a very small break in the course of the film. And our Wonder Woman? Pretty, small-town gal goes to Hollywood, walks up and down the street in a skimpy outfit and takes money from strangers. Let's just say that, given those circumstances, pretending to be Wonder Woman is not the most demeaning thing she could be doing.

So, if the previous paragraphs haven't made it clear, "Confessions of a Superhero" can be a lot of fun. But the question that arises when watching such a film is this: should we feel a little unclean laughing at these people? After all, unlike the subjects of the sweeter and more deftly crafted "Trekkies," our fake Batman and Superman are not just overzealous fanboys with an amped-up hobby. They're desperate people with fairly sad little lives. While "Confessions" may not quite go for the jugular in making sport of its subjects, it doesn't exactly spare their feelings, either. It may be a funny movie for you and me, but I'd hardly guess that Angry Batman would share that opinion.