"The Scalphunters" is entertaining and quite funny. Although the film is often interpreted as a social satire on slavery and its historical effects on race relations, for reasons described below, it is best viewed as a case of chance or circumstance and not as social satire.

The master's freedom is only apparent because it owes its recognition to the slave, who is not "equal" and therefore not in a position to fully recognize the master as such. The slave's bondage is in fact an education to a "freedom" higher than that of the master. Each man is deceived by his condition. Neither is free but it is the slave who gives birth to the idea of freedom, which then has all the force of a religion or ideology. The master's assertion of difference qua recognition makes the master the slave of his slave. Thus the dialectic of the master/slave relationship never ends as long as one remains on the politicized level of anthropological freedom or equality as recognition of one's self. The slave can never be "free" as long as his concept of freedom remains within the orbit of the leveling concept of equality; by doing so he becomes self-conscious or cognizant of the fact that his freedom necessarily entails the negation of the other over whom he becomes master in order to establish his "freedom" (in contemporary terms this plays out in the ubiquitous desire to be "creative" or "unique," i.e. the negation of equality or sameness). But when the slave becomes a master he immediately then becomes a slave, as described above. Pursuit of freedom and equality results in slavery. Satisfaction of the desire for freedom cannot be attained in this vicious circle, if at all. As the conditions of equality are actualized dissatisfaction increases (because of the innate desire of humans to differentiate), which always results in the demand for more freedom and more equality, usually under the guise of more "rights."

Given this one could view the film as a satire on satire, which would make it truly ironic in the Socratic sense. As Tocqueville explained, recognition would then recognize that "freedom" and "equality" are incompatible or mutually negating--freedom being the result of transcendence and equality a levelling force (see also Kierkegaard's essay "The Results of Observing the Two Ages"). Modern self-consciousness of freedom and equality negate themselves resulting in an aufhebung of ancient self-knowledge. The self overcomes narcissism by recognizing that "self-consciousness" lacks significance in the cosmos in which I am as a "self" insignificant, i.e., by identifying itself as a part within the cosmic whole (Hegel's identity of identity and non-identity). This is all well understood in Eastern philosophy and religion (such as the Advaita Vedanta form of Hinduism and the Madhyamika form of Mahayana Buddhism), wherein the concept of the subject/object duality necessary for the Western notion of human freedom and equality is rejected in favor of the harmony of opposites, which are nonetheless hierarchically ordered in the human sphere by the cosmic force of dharma. The Chandogya Upanishad teaches that the self or atman is the same thing as the Absolute of Being, Brahman: tat tvam asi (thou art that). This means "freedom" can be realized only by overcoming the opposition of master/slave and thereby transcending one's desire for recognition of equality and fear of non-recognition or inequality.