Ahhh, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom...

It's one of those you-love-it-or-you-hate-it films, even amongst Indiana Jones fans.  I know quite a few fans who think it's the best out of all four of the films.  I also know quite a few who'd like to forget it was ever made.

The film (4/5):

India.  1935.

After a near-fatal encounter with Chinese gangsters in Shanghai and a harrowing airplane escape, Indy (Harrison Ford) finds himself stranded in the heart of the Indian sub-continent.  He and his companions, resourceful pint-sized sidekick Short Round (Ke Huy Qan) and whiny spoiled nightclub singer Willie Scott (Kate Capshaw), encounter the shaman of a small village which has fallen on very hard times lately.  The shaman says that the village's children have been kidnapped, and all of the crops have failed.  He and his fellow villagers believe that these tragedies have happened because their religious artifact, a polished brown stone with three white lines carved into one side of it, was stolen and taken to Pankot Palace, home of the regional governor known as the Maharajah.

Indy believes the stone to be one of the five legendary lost Sankara Stones.  Seeing visions of personal fortune and glory, he agrees to travel to Pankot and retrieve the stone.  Once there, he and his friends quickly discover why the stone was stolen.  The Thuggee cult, worshippers of the evil goddess Kali, believe that the stone and the two others they've discovered give them immense control of the minds of other people.  Even the Maharajah is under their mind-control.  The head priest, Mola-Ram (Amrish Puri), and his trusted lieutenant (Roshan Seth) take great pleasure offering human sacrifices to Kali.  The village children they've kidnapped have been put into slavery, forced to dig and search for the remaining two Sankara Stones.  The Thuggee believe that, once all five stones are in their possession, they will be able to control the minds of everyone on Earth.

Will Indy be able to avoid being mind-controlled by the Thuggee?  Will he recover the stone and rescue the children?  Will Willie ever stop her damn whining???

Temple of Doom is definitely the darkest and scariest of all four Indiana Jones films.  This is not too surprising though, when you consider that Steven Spielberg and George Lucas were both going through some dark and troubling times in their own personal lives while making this film.  Spielberg, one of the producers of 1983's Twilight Zone: The Movie, was being sued for wrongful death because of a terrible tragedy on the set of that film.  And Lucas was in the midst of a messy divorce and child custody battle.  This film, along with the Spielberg-produced films Poltergeist and Gremlins, were the impetus for the creation of the PG-13 rating a year later.  A stomach-churning yet oddly-hilarious dinner feast, a rescue scene featuring lots and lots and LOTS of bugs, a horrifyingly gory and prolonged human sacrifice, scenes of the slave children being repeatedly physically abused by their captors, LOTS of gratuitous violence and some not-so-subtle sexual banter between Indy and Willie are just some of the reasons why parents of children under 12 should be encouraged not to allow their children to see this film.

Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is my personal favorite of all four films.  It's not the best one in the series.  Raiders of the Lost Ark is, and will always be, the best one.  Temple of Doom is my personal fave because there are many moments of wonderfully-timed comic relief to counterbalance all of the deeply darker moments in the film.  Some examples of this are:  the villagers openly gawking at Willie as she tries unsuccessfully to climb on top of an elephant, Short Round accusing Indy of cheating while they're playing poker only to have Indy discover that Short Round's been cheating throughout the whole game, and a Thuggee guard knocking one of his fellow guards unconscious by accidentally bonking the poor fellow on the head with a heavy iron mallet.  Of course, there are many other moments of comic relief throughout the entire film.  But, those three are my personal favorites!

Having said all that, I can see why quite a few people do not like this film for those very reasons.  It probably also doesn't help that this is the only film in the series that does not reveal any part of Indy's personal history.

All-in-all, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, while not the best Indy film, is an entertaining way to spend two hours in front of your TV set.  I feel I must repeat, though, that parents should strongly consider not allowing their younger children to watch it for the reasons I stated previously.

The video quality (4/5):

It's pretty good, considering that this film is now 27 years old!  There are some minor problems.  The color quality is a bit inconsistent at times, with flesh-tones occasionally looking a bit overly pinkish.  And there is some slightly noticeable film grain in one or two scenes.  But, those are just nitpicks on my part.  On the major plus side, I didn't notice any edge enhancement or compression artifacts of any kind.  And, that's always a good thing in my opinion!

The audio quality (4/5):

The language options included on the disc are English Dolby Digital 5.1, French Dolby Digital 2.0 and Spanish Dolby Digital 2.0.  There also optional subtitles available in those three languages.  The English 5.1 track is surprisingly strong and powerful, again considering the film's vintage.  John Williams' music nicely surrounds you from all five channels, and has some punchy subwoofer bass too!  The dialogue sounds just a tad bit tinny at times, but still comes through the center channel speaker clear and understandable.  And the sound effects make full and effective use of the front and rear surround channels during the film's action scenes.  The only disappointment, sound-effects-wise, is during the film's quieter moments when the rear surround channels are silent except for the music.

The bonus materials (3/5):

First, it must be noted that since this is the May 2008 re-issuing of the film on DVD, a skippable trailer for Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull plays before the main menu appears.

Well, folks, there aren't a whole lot of extras to be found on this disc.  What is here, though, is somewhat entertaining and informative.  The following bonus materials are included on the disc:

An introduction by Steven Spielberg and George Lucas.
"The Creepy Crawlies" featurette about the various insects, reptiles and animals seen in the first three Indiana Jones films.  This featurette includes an optional trivia subtitle track.
"Travel With Indy: Locations" featurette highlighting some of the real-world filming locations used in the first three films.  This featurette also includes an optional trivia subtitle track.
A storyboard featurette highlighting the film's mine care chase sequence.
A collection of galleries featuring on-set production photographs, promotional artwork and concept design artwork for the film's sets, costumes and props.
A trailer for the video game "LEGO Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures", as well as instructions for downloading a PC demo of the game from the game's website.

The "Creepy Crawlies" and "Travel With Indy" featurettes are the best of the bunch.  They provide a surprising amount of information and vintage behind-the-scenes footage, considering how short they both are!  The galleries were also interesting to look at, especially the one featuring concept designs for the various posters made for the film's theatrical release.  Chances are, though, that you'll view the rest of the bonus materials once, and never think of them again.

Overall (4/5):

Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is action-packed and entertaining, if you don't mind the film's darker elements.  It's not the best Indy film.  But, it's still very fun to watch, if you're an adult or a teenager.  Again, I can't stress this enough, this film probably should not be watched by younger or more sensitive children.  It's likely they'll have nightmares because of it.

Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is somewhat highly recommended by me, if only for it's many moments of much-needed comic relief.