If you're really interested in the tragic story of the Titanic, and the dignity, courage, grace and dispair of the passengers that will tug your heart, see "A Night to Remember," based on the definitive book by Walter Lord, which I read as a kid as soon as it came out.

Or, there's the B&W Titanic movie starring Barbara Stanwick, Clifton Webb, a very young Robert Waggoner, et al.  You might wonder why they need to create this fictional dysfunctional family to carry the story, if the disaster itself weren't enough.

But it steadily goes downhill from there.

There's the James Cameron version of Titanic which, to me, has an increasingly contrived story line as if the actual story itself couldn't maintain an audience's attention.  Such as:

-- Jack and Rose somehow were allowed to get to the bow of the ship, with him shouting "I'm king of the world!!!!," with Capt. Smith proudly looking on from the bridge, as if he would allow passengers to have access there in the first place.  And Jack & Rose are only wearing flimsey (especially Rose) clothes.  And this was April 1912 on a ship in the North Atlantic traveling at 20+ knots at 35-degree weather.

-- This was before birth control, and Rose didn't have a husband to account for a pregnancy.  But here she is as a first class aristocratic passenger with a guy traveling steerage she met only a day or so before in the back seat of a Renault.  Oh, pleeeeezeeee.

-- Or Mrs. James J. (aka Molly) Brown "just happening" to have her son's trunk with her, which has a tuxedo that "just happens" to fit Jack for the big event.  Oh, gag!!!  Never happened.

This version, with George C. Scott and many others, is the worst distortion of what actually happened, and the story line is so contrived, convoluted and fabricated that it should't have been named "Titanic."

J. Bruce Ismay never gave direct orders to contradrict Capt. Smith's instructions to the crew.

Capt. Smith would never let a passenger take the helm of the ship.

What really bothers me with this version, which I think is dispicable, is that they create their own sensational  version of dialogue among actual crew/passengers that never occurred, based on testimony of actual survivors, and a lot of these people died.  This really happened.

They should be ashamed.