Martin Scorscese's "Shutter Island" recieves Masterpiece Rating. One star means don't bother, two stars means wait till it comes out in pan and scan on HBO. Three stars means see it at the theater and rent the dvd. Four stars means  see it twice at theater and buy dvd. Five stars means the film transcends it's genre, ( in this case it is important to note this is an ADAPTATION of a novel. see it more than twice, buy the blu ray and immediately listen to the directors commentary upon first viewing. (smiling)
Only a Director of Scorscese's stature could command the resources to adapt Dennis Lahane's novel. Dubbed alternately "speculative" fiction, or "meta" fiction, the film captures the elusive gravity of the original prosaic presentation.
Make this movie with ten directors, and of course, you would have ten versions. I can only comment on the Scorscese version, NOT the one that film critics or Lahane fans wanted to be made.
In another directors hands, the films style, aided by long time Scorscese collaborators in Production, Casting, Art Direction, Director of Photography, Musical Score, and Costumes, would border on parody. In the master's hands, it becomes the finest adaptation of a novel into a "Thriller" yet made.
If one were to name the 20th century, in particular, the first half of the 20th century, my nomination would be "Century of the Psyche". Medical Science faced and empirically proved the validity, and reality of the soul, the psyche. It was also the American Century
It is fitting then, that the film takes place in the 1950's in America.
The story centers around a Federal Marshall, Teddy Daniels, and a new partner "from the Seattle office", Chuck, journeying on a prison ferry, to an island 11 miles off the coast of Massachusets.
Investigating the disappearance of a female prisoner, we soon learn that Daniels lobbied for the assignment, and that he has an agenda of his own, involving the arson death of his beloved wife.
The late Doors frontman and singer, Jim Morrison, in a paper he wrote while attending UCLA film school, remarked that film attempted two basic things. To present Dreams as "real" life, or to portray "real" life in a dreamlike quality. "Shutter Island" acheives the rarified status of fusing the two categories.
Disappointingly, after a week of so-so reviews nonetheless not having the slightest effect on a 40 million dollar plus opening, a marketing blitz mentioning " a twist " causes the slightly more than normal intelligent viewer to arm themselves with guesses and hunches that distract from the artistic genius of the film.
Regardless, the film delivers in every category.
English, it is said, was a gift to the world in that the language, fluid and protean, ever changing, describes more accurately than all others, emotion. It is in the emotional expression of that language that Leonardo DiCaprio's Oscar worthy performance outdoes any other in this, the fourth collaboration with Scorscese.
A note: the symbol of the Monster arising from the collective Psyche of the human race has a simple origin. It is simply the soul's snapshot of its own "unfinished Self". Searching for, finding, and coming to terms and integrating the Monster, is a Hero's Journey, and Teddy Daniels is heroic.
Left guessing between real and fantasy, dream and reality, hallucination and actual, we accompany Teddy on his journey.
At the end of our journey, we are left with our own unfinished Self. Asking the same question Daniels does to his partner Chuck. "Is it better to die a Monster, or to live as an Honest Man?"
Owing to Scorscese's and DiCaprio's Stellar efforts, and Lahane's genius in donating a container to hold and answer the 20th century's greatest question, those affected by this film, will ask it of themselves each time they view the film, and each day as well.
Note; The films final credits roll to a hybrid song combining Dinah Washington's "This Bitter World" and classical string music. This haunting song presented by Robbie Robertson perfectly encapsulates the journey as well, letting the viewer down gently to go and meditate on the lesson's learned.
A work of unqualified beauty and power, wholly unique in the history of Hollywood Thrillers,it is, I repeat, a Masterpiece.