I remember thinking (back in 1998 when the New Republic scandal was making headlines) how strange and intriguing the story was. Promising young writer Stephen Glass of a reputable current events and policy magazine - and apparently the then in-flight magazine of the president's Air Force One - is exposed for making up facts, events, and people in his articles. This excellent film re-tells that story. It's important to pay attention in the beginning, as the pacing is a bit slow (albeit deliberately), but it's to show us the characters' motivations and the interpersonal dynamics of the staff and work environment at the New Republic office. Once the story gets going, it really becomes an engrossing drama. 
Hayden Christensen plays Stephen Glass, and he's actually quite good in this role. I had only seen him as Anakin in the Star Wars films, but he shows more depth here, though, I'm still not convinced that he's as versatile an actor as others his age. Hank Azaria - veteran 'voice' in The Simpsons TV series - is absolutely believable in his smallish role as Michael Kelly, the senior editor. Peter Sarsgaard (who I liked and feared in Boys Don't Cry) plays Chuck Lane, who takes over for the departing Michael Kelly as Glass's boss and is ultimately the hero of this story. Sarsgaard, alone, is worth the ticket price (or DVD rental/purchase). Chloë Sevigny also stars and Rosario Dawson and Steve Zahn have small parts as well.
So you can see by the featured actors that a lot of young talent is at hand. I was well impressed with this film. There is no gun-play, no action, no sex, and no F-words, so it's probably going to bore unenlightened viewers. But for those of us who like human drama, it's pretty special. 
As for the bonus features, there is an excerpt of a 60 Minutes Special on Glass, which is really amusing as we get to meet the real Stephen Glass. By the end of the featurette, one certainly does get a sense for what a weasel Glass was (and probably still is).
There is also a feature-length commentary with director Billy Ray and the real Chuck Lane. This is one of the best parts of the DVD actually, because Lane is such a knowledgeable, likeable and modest guy, it's really a gift to hear his insight into the real-life events that took place. In contrast, Billy Ray annoys with his superfluous praising of his cast and crew; he practically confesses his incompetence as a first-time director. I don't doubt Billy Ray's intelligence and abilities, because the movie is excellent and it's clear that he really wanted to do the drama and the facts justice (and succeeded!); but it felt like he was using the commentary track as his own personal soapbox to thank everyone for being so "extraordinary" and "fantastic".
All in all, I was extremely pleased with my purchase. I don't watch all my DVDs over and over, but you'll want to watch this one at least a second time for the engaging commentary with the director and Chuck Lane. Highly recommended.