Of all the movies I've seen "set" in the former Soviet Union, this one manages best to show the reality.  Stephen Rea, as Viktor Burakov, has what would be an interesting job as a forensic pathologist - except that he is hampered in what he can do or say by Soviet dogma and bureaucracy.  When he learns that a serial killer is targeting kids and other vulnerables, luring them out of the city to rape and murder them, he is outraged (and frightened for his own children's safety).  He is also determined to catch this man.  Unfortunately, all of his superiors deny the possibility of communism ever producing such a deviant and refuse to give him even the smallest tools to help catch him.  Many, many years pass, and Burakov diligently pursues murder after murder, forced by his superiors to take precious time out from true investigation to shake down other Soviet targets such as homosexuals (deemed dangerous by the Soviets).  Finally, when communism collapses, he is allowed by his superior, Fetisov, the one man who has been sympathetic to his mission, to use modern tools such as computers and assigned adequate manpower to stage a hunt for this horrible killer who has been piling up the bodies for over twenty years.

All the leads here, Rea, Sutherland, and DeMunn, are very convincing, even if their Russian accents are not quite right.  Also authentically Soviet are the buildings, streets, and extras.  Since Burakov's real enemy here is the stagnation and apathy of communism, it would be inappropriate if the buildings he worked in, lived in, or searched were clean and tidy and well taken care of.  Fortunately, they accurately reflect what is going on during the death throes of an unworkable ideology - this was a bleak place to exist.

DeMunn portrays Chikitilo as gray and passive/aggressive.  He is eminently overlookable which explains why, when caught the first time, he is released.  It also explains how he lured all of these kids to their deaths without anyone taking notice of him.  And while he is clearly a monster, there are scenes in which DeMunn manages to inject humanity and pathos making him seem pathetic in addition to being evil.

Burakov's relentless pursuit of this killer despite the odds and what it cost him personally and emotionally are what make the final moments of the movie so touching.  This movie is difficult to watch as it does not shy away from the violence being committed (though what is shown is not gratuitous), but ultimately, it's the saga of one man's determination to do what is right and outwait an apathetic regime.  Very satisfying.