Spoiler alert!

We begin this film with Julienne Moore's character, Telly, talking to her therapist about how often she looks at her son Sam's things. Sam died over a year before in a plane crash at sea, so we think.

This movie takes a look at the love a mother has for her child and the bond that creates and asks what happens if that bond is severed.

Julienne Moore gives an emotional performance that had me feeling the pain her character was going through. She plays Telly Perretta, a woman who is not sure if her son ever existed, or if she made him up because of a stillborn pregnancy and is losing her mind.

Dominic West gave a wonderful performance as a single father, which I love seeing, who has also lost a daughter in the same accident. Unlike Moore's character, though, he has forgotten that he ever had a daughter. Ash was a hockey player for the NHL and now has a raging drinking problem. I felt it was a tad bit unrealistic that Ash would give up drinking on the spot, apparently never have another craving, and all because of a couple of dirty looks from Telly Perretta.

Gary Sinise, of Forest Gump fame, gives a wonderfully understated performance as Dr. Munce, the therapist that tries to convince Telly that her son never existed. He seems so empathetic and genuinely caring that it didn't make me hate him when it turns out he is working for the bad guys.

Alfre Woodard has a small roll as Detective Anne Pope. Only Woodard could take this small, but important character, and turn her into someone that sticks in your mind. She is a New York City detective who is called in when Telly and Ash go on the run to try and find out what happened to their children. There is a great scene between Woodard and a couple of NSA agents where Woodard really puts the agents in their place.

Linus Roache plays the alien conducting the experiment that causes Telly and Ash so much pain. He does very well with giving off a mysterious air until the end when all is revealed. I have to admit, my favorite scene with Roache is when his experiment fails because Moore remembers being pregnant and he looks up, says, "I need more ti" and is sucked into the sky. I still haven't figured out why Roache is mysterious and rather stoney faced throughout the movie, except for when Sam is getting on the airplane. I feel like he should never have showed emotion if he was an alien, but that is just my humble opinion.

Anthony Edwards deserves a mention as Jim, Telly's husband. He does come off as a bit wishy-washy, but it plays perfectly in the context of the movie. I love the scene between Jim and Telly when Edwards' character has forgotten Telly. He manages to give that vibe of friendly and a little interested, but not at all slimy.

I really like this film because it doesn't rely on blood and guts and gore to be scary. The suspense is well timed, there is romance, but no softcore porn. I love the underlying message, that love can conquer all. My seven year old loves scary movies and being scared, but it is hard to find movies that are not too violent and full of blood and guts and not full of sex. This movie fits the bill perfectly.