On my first day of third grade, my teacher delighted every school boy or girl present, including myself, when she said, "Class, as of today, everyone has an A." The smiles were huge, but they were soon followed by grumbles. Could it really be so easy? Of course, it wasn't. My teacher explained, "Everyone has an A, but from this point on, each grade beneath it takes away from that A." In short, it was a trick--a way to make students prone to thinking they were starting with nothing and working towards greatness as thinking they were starting with greatness and they only had to sustain. In regards to Christopher Nolan, who is one of the greatest living writers period, this scale is no trick. It's a requirement. You must judge Nolan on a scale of greatness, then determine if he sustained it, and while Christopher Nolan has never made a bad movie, he got dangerously close in The Dark Knight Rises (DRK).

So, what's wrong with the DKR? How can the third movie of a successful franchise, using the same creators, the same cast, and one of the biggest budgets in movie history fall short? It's the same thing that sinks most movies in its position, the writing wasn't there. Post DK, Christopher Nolan has been extremely busy, including making his dream movie, the mega-successful and mentally-titillating Inception, and he (I'm including his brother in "he") never got the opportunity to finish the DKR script, which is the script's largest problem--it's not bad, it's incomplete. Nolan is one of the most technically sound writers in Hollywood. This guy never makes a mistake, his every line of dialogue pushes the story forward, he follows storytelling theory to its core, focusing on building familiar settings, strong antagonists, helpers who have clearly defined roles, breaks his scripts into three clear acts, and always pays off in the "final battle," and upon its conclusion, the protagonist always become "the master of two worlds." These aren't talents Christopher Nolan was blessed with, they're signs of a precise, obsessive, and brilliant writer, someone who's entire existence is devoted to the page, and to top it off, Nolan frequently flaunts his flare for non-chronological timelines, which are nearly Shakespearian in their careful balance and meticulous execution.

All of this is missing from the DKR.

Is it the result of a bad script? Or was the story anemic?

First off, there were signs that Nolan's Batman franchise was fatigued. (Many noticed that DK was a rewritten version of The Prestige). In DKR, these signs became reality.

Bruce Wayne's butler Alfred, played by Michael Caine, is Bruce's wiseman and trusted source of perspective. In BB, after Bruce returns from saving Rachel from Scarecrow, Alfred shares needed insight to Bruce by saying, "You're getting lost inside this monster of yours." This comment returns the story to one of identity before Ra's re-enters the plot (like one minute later). Alfred's informing the audience that only by being Bruce Wayne and Batman in unity will Bruce defeat Ra's al Ghul, or else Bruce is "just a vigilante." It seems heady and unnecessary to analyze the film this deeply, but man does it ever pay off, especially during the final battle, when Bruce fights Ra's al Ghul on a train, which Bruce's father built, that's on a collision course with Wayne Tower, a destiny Bruce has long feared, in a fight where Ra's al Ghul tells Bruce, "You were just an ordinary man in a cape, that's why you can't fight injustice." In the end, Bruce does become more than himself or Batman, finding a superior identity, he defeats Ra's and preserves the Wayne legacy despite his father's home and train being destroyed. In DK, Alfred offers needed insight into Joker when he shares the story of a crazed man stealing jewels in the jungle, which informs Bruce that Joker is not a "common criminal," and it informs the audience that Bruce is underestimating the Joker. By doing so, Alfred is also sharing with us how, should Bruce choose to gain this sacred knowledge, he will eventually triumph.

In DKR, Alfred does not deliver a story of immense insight, he's asked to simply set up the ending, where we see Bruce Wayne living a new life away from Gotham. To complicate things, this scene also sets the tone of what is DKR's worst flaw, indulgence. For a writer who's known for his restraint, Nolan packed DKR with little needed side-scenes. Here you have Michael Caine, one of the greatest actors of all time at his rare specialty, the actor who makes boring but necessary dialogue interesting, an under-appreciated day laborer working for bosses making huge bonuses off his sweat, and all you really have to do, in Nolan's position, is not over think it. Do what you did in BB and DK and let Michael Caine tell the story, let the camera watch him stoically, and do absolutely nothing else. However, Nolan chose to cutaway to a depiction of Alfred's story, which was heart-wrenching as it gave away the final twist. It was an unfortunate risk that didn't pay off for Nolan, and that happens, but it's an indulgence because (I feel) it's likely the audience would've remembered Alfred's story without the cutaway. It's doubtful that Michael Caine is anyone's favorite actor, yet we all know one thing: When Caine speaks, we listen.

Before I stray too far from my premise, I will concede that my argument thus far begs the question. If Alfred always has insight to offer on the antagonist, why does Alfred have none to offer in DKR? Alfred has none because, technically, DKR has no antagonist. In any good story, the antagonist is the character who represents all the protagonist's fear, guilt and denial. (This is why the Joker is Batman's ultimate villain). Or to be brief, it's the character who wants to prevent the protagonist from reaching his/her goal. So who is the antagonist of DRK? Is it Bane? No, it's not. We find out at the end that Bane isn't doing what he's doing to stop Batman from fixing Gotham. He's doing it because of an immense, and subsequently pathetic, love for Talia al Ghul. But, wait... It's obviously Talia al Ghul, isn't it? Wrong again! Talia claims that her motivation is finishing her father's work. If her father's dream was to blow up Miami Beach, she'd have done so. It's a powerful motivator for her character, but it also means she's not Batman's nemesis.

So who is the antagonist of DKR? It's Ra's al Ghul.

It turns out that DKR is a bigger version of BB, which might've worked, except it ends up being hollow, we don't get a pay off, because Ra's al Ghul was defeated two movies ago. We know he cannot beat Bruce, and we know Bruce has already gained all the "sacred knowledge" necessary to defeat Ra's, and so Bruce is already the "master of two worlds" in this challenge. He's just, you know, older. Sometimes Alfred pointed out at nauseum.

At the end of BB, Bruce tries to tell Rachel that Batman is just a symbol, and Rachel tells him it's untrue, that Batman is no longer a mask. In DK, she writes Bruce a letter telling him that he'll always need Batman. Both of these stories confirm Alfred's insight in BB, which was that Bruce had to become something more than Batman or Bruce. By having Bruce face Ra's al Ghul again in DKR, we draw Bruce into another identity crisis, but this one is harder to maneuver without Rachel. There're few characters who know both Bruce and Batman equally, so it falls on Alfred to do it, and he proceeds to abandon Bruce, essentially equating Bruce's drive to save Gotham to that of a deranged and suicidal alcoholic.

Using Talia and Bane worsens the identity crisis plotline. As the saying goes, the protagonist is only as strong as the antagonist, and as Christopher Nolan knows, and temporarily forgot for DKR, all antagonists should be fanatical in their pursuits. Consider BB, where Ra's knows no limit in his view of justice, and then DK, where Joker so radically subscribes to anarchy that he mocks "cause and effect" theory by changing the origin story of his scars on his every recollection. In essence, despite being the most radical of the three movies, DKR is not a story of fanaticism, it's a story of love---it's the tragedy of Bane's love for Talia, and Talia's love for her father, and since neither pursuit represents fanaticism, we know our antagonists don't actually believe in their actions, which means they lack identity, as well.

For plenty of DKR, we listen to unintelligible speeches about how Gotham's being "returned to the people," which feels engineered since none of Gotham's citizens are actual planners or participators in this revolution, except for maybe a few hundred people in the sewers and 1,000 released prisoners. (BTW, in DK, didn't Nolan show us that even prisoners have morality? Why are they so willing, in DKR, to supplant an entire society? If it's true that these prisoners are locked up by Dent's law, then they're locals and they have families who're going to die.) Because of this, when Batman arrives at the final battle, beating down Bane, shouting, "Where is the trigger? I know you wouldn't give it to an average citizen" it feels anti-climatic. As an audience, we've known this data for hours, but Batman's only now catching up? Where is the journey we take with one of the world's greatest detectives? (Answer: We can't take it! He was stuck in a hole on the other side of the world...FOREVER.) Sure, Bane's claims of giving the button to an "average citizen" is, I suppose, a nice play on what the Joker did in DK, but I don't see why it was necessary in DKR.

As if the final battle in DKR wasn't flawed enough, it's felt like Batman says more than he does in all of BB and DK combined. We're talking about a dark, mysterious figure so powerful that his nemesis's often speak for him. In DK, when hung off the edge of the building, mobster Salvatore Maroni surmises the situation for Batman, saying, "From one professional to another, if you're trying to scare somebody, pick a better spot. From this height, the fall wouldn't kill me," which of course leaves Batman to say in his cold as ice manner, "I'm counting on it." When confronting Bane in DKR, on the steps of Gotham's City Hall (I believe), in response to Bane's taunt, Batman blandly says, "I came here to stop you." (If Nolan had been on his game, Bane would have said, "Have you come here to stop me, Batman?" and Batman would've said, "[enter comeback here].")

All these elements in DKR are tied together by the classic movie convention, a time bomb, which is, in actuality, a writers way of saying, "Since the entire universe is going to end simultaneously, all these plotlines must be related, right?" But, in this is where Nolan becomes the victim. How could he have anticipated the Japanese tsunami and pursuant reactor crisis? When he wrote the script, he had to feel comfortable with it, yet when his audience sees it now, things like "blast radius," "radioactive decay," and, "weaponized," are not terms we let graze past us. We know nuclear reactors can't detonate like a bomb, they need to be designed specifically as a bomb, and that weapons grade materials aren't safe for day-in and day-out power generation. Had Nolan known that we'd know this, Lucius Fox would've given a sentence or two to dismiss it, or invented a reason why fusion generation can explode catastrophically. Regardless, when we learn that it takes months for the radioactive decay to reach a critical point of instability (which I think is backwards, but I'm not a nuclear physicist, so what do I know), it feels eerily similiar to Japan's reactor meltdowns, which took weeks to be stabilized, yet because of the Japan crisis, we know it's ridiculous to even contemplate that the process, the decay or the meltdown, can be bolted down to an exact second five months in advance.

The science of the bomb plot bit Nolan in the butt, but where Nolan owns fault is in his story application of the bomb, which is problematic. Supposedly, Batman flies out over the bay, sacrificing his life to save the city (something which would resolve his identity crisis and confirm that, yes, the merged identities in BB did happen). Though, because of the DKR's beginning, I was expecting Alfred to go on vacation, stop for a drink, and look for Bruce, so the fake funeral beforehand was tedious, cause I was 2hrs 30mins in and I still hadn't gotten a pay-off, I was still waiting for Bruce to become the master of two worlds for DKR, and I knew that was impossible if he was dead. Of course, DKR does cut to Alfred drinking and looking up at Bruce with Selina Kyle, which offers its own closure. If Bruce needed Batman to come to terms with his parent's death, perhaps ridding himself of Batman, and using the "Clean Slate" program to give both him and his new love a chance at happiness, represents becoming a master of two worlds, but that is also problematic since, if it's true, then Bruce was his own antagonist in DKR, and if he was his own antagonist, why bring back Ra's al Ghul? And if Bruce was his own antagonist, and Ra's was just a symbol of that antagonist, and if Bruce didn't actually die on his helicopter flight, and he always knew he wouldn't die on it, then what exactly was the final battle, who won it, and does it even matter?

In the end, Nolan created a meaning paradox. Everything about this movie begs the question.

These contradictions in DKR null and void more than just the antagonist question. Most of the plot is built on the political and judicial reforms enacted after Harvey Dent's death, and it ties the deception involved in Harvey Dent's death to the failure of these protocols (crime goes down, but it's only because they've pushed all the poor and downtrodden into the sewers). Lots of time is spent in DKR talking about the "truth" and bringing it forward. Indeed, Bane does read Commissioner Gordon's unread speech, spilling the truth about Harvey's demise, which I guess every Gothamite wholly believed since no one questioned it. In fact, after Bane said this great secret, it was barely mentioned again. At the conclusion, Harvey Dent is outed as Two Face, and Batman is recognized as the true white knight of Gotham, but this in itself represents another contradiction. When Bruce decided to fake his death, or Batman's, he may have metaphorically killed Batman, but in reality, Batman becomes just another Harvey Dent, another fallen martyr who didn't actually die for Gotham.

Wasn't that what caused the conditions for the third movie?

In the end, I guess, Bruce's identity crisis between himself and Batman gets resolved when defeating his mentor, a man talented at multiple identities and deception in Ra's al Ghul (BB), goes onto to create a lie about Harvey Dent's death to stimulate collective action in Gotham and squash the Joker's plans for anarchy (DK), yet in DKR, we find out that Bruce didn't really resolve any identity crisis in BB, he never really needed to become Batman, and while it was a mistake to tell the lie he told in DK, it's okay to tell it again so that he can move to Europe and hook-up constantly with Selina Kyle.

(Not that I blame him!!!!)

So what could've given DKR a puncher's chance?

Two movies.

What Christopher Nolan tried to create, he is more than capable of doing, but he needed an extra ninety minutes to balance it in the special way only he can. Being such a traditionalist, Nolan might despise the idea that Harry Potter, Twilight, and the Hobbit are being turned into multiple movies from singular sources, but DKR would have done well to have a Part I and Part II, six months apart from each other, a la Harry Potter. The first movie ends when Batman gets his back broken. The second opens on a montage of him healing. It saves us the twenty minutes where he lays around immobilized on a mat, and it provides time to fill story holes and develop a proper antagonist. Ra's al Ghul can easily be a big part of this story, but he needs to be an inspiration to Talia, a catalyst for bigger things.

All that said, you can fall too far down the rabbit hole in regards to Christopher Nolan. He still gets top notch performances out of Christian Bale, Jason Gordon-Levitt, and a bit to my surprise, Anne Hathaway, who's an understated master at facial expressions (who knew?). The script, while flawed philosophically, has all the witty banter one expects from the likes of Nolan, including a few good jokes between Alfred and Bruce, a few good love-jabs between Selina and Bruce, and I think even Bane managed to turn a phrase or two. To paraphrase what I said earlier, it's not that this movie is bad, it's not that the script is bad, it's just not finished. Nolan could've done better with these pieces, and I think in time, he will say, "If I could do it again, I'd have given myself another 2 years to finish Batman." Who knows if that extra time could've have taken DKR to the level of BB and DK, aren't all the third movies in trilogies awful? In the end, the standards and protocols, "the way things have always been done," states that no series is complete unless it's a trilogy at the minimum, but perhaps in Nolan's Bat trilogy, two movies were more than enough.