Yes, the first versions of Highlander 2, even the one in big screen were not so believable and even stupid for the idea of immortals being aliens. But here on the Renegade version, the story is very different. In time, I don't believe, as the other writers here that Highlander 2 are so bad like this. Of course, Highlander 1 is a truly masterpiece, but personally, I think Highlander 2 is, at least, a funny and interesting movie. The science fiction pack is only a background to a bigger question about the future of Earth. The message that Sean Connery leaves to us in the ventilator scene is truly inspiring.

Well, back to the Renegade, the story is very changed compared with the other versions, and make this movie an acceptable sequence. The imortals doesn't came from Zeist anymore, so the story is on Earth, on the year 1500. The ressurection of Ramirez is because the power of magic, probably because of the quickening that brought Connor back to his immortality. And in a personal level, I think Ramirez got lost somehow when he was transported into the future. And about the future, Davis and Panzer, the producers, explains why the third and fourth sequels returns to the years before the shield from 2. Katana have the ability to see the future, so he travels to the future where Connor is the last immortal on Earth. When the shield is broken and the life in planet is back to normal, everything fades, Connor wins the right to return to the past and reborn in some years ago and then comes the events we saw in the first Highlander. That's why Brenda dies by a car crash in the third movie and not by radiation. The shield doesn't exist anymore. Yes, the story on Highlander 2 annuls itself, like if never happened.

Think: it's a dark future where the shield exists. Connor only can win the right to return to his time and reborn after some years if he kills the last immortal of the future. So he destroy the shield, it doesn't exist anymore. But it was there on the beginning. If he hadn't destroyed the shield, the story would certainly be very different. You just have to accept there were changes in the world, after the destruction of the shield. Like if this never had taken place before. It have a lot of science fiction on this movie. In the end of the movie, you just get on the conclusion that he returned to the past and the dark future of the shield is simply erased from existence. That's why the story of the movie annuls itself.

But how could Connor to have a life and a past on the distant future if he travelled through time? That's also easy, because the plot on the movie uses the same idea than in Back to the Future Part 2, witch is, the fact of you travelling to the future will not affect your existence on Earth.

Of course, the plot is not so well written, but the story in this Renegade version became an OK story and turns to a more believable version than the others. There are some low points and some questions that remained unanswered, of course, but in the end its a good movie. Lambert is excellent back to his role, Connery is wonderfull as usual and Ironside is either funny and evil, one of the best actings of the movie, he alone have some of the best moments of the film. Ah, I couldn't resist to talk about the score after Ramirez and Connor got shot by security guards. It's very funny!

All in all, this movie it's not a beauty, but it's not the beast that everyone are shouting around. A good one to watch in the afternoons or in a rainy day.