First off, the rating was extremely hard for me to figure out. This is not a dead serious, scholarly film, neither does it claim to have any intelligence other than the little it might. However, considering the fact that it's really quite fluff, I rate it as fluff - and, for that, it's good. [Talk about awkward and uninteresting openings.]
The heyday of the Brat Pack! The Reagan era! Wretched excess in everything from fashion to lifestyle...This movie has many very funny moments, ones that were probably not seen as such when this was made, but as we look back at this film from 16 years later, there are just some things that are hysterical. Too, there are some funny moments, timeless ones. My favorite line has to be the exchange on the fire escape: "...We need an experienced thief." "I'll get Billy." Yeah, so it only works if you've seen the film. Like so many other inside jokes, you can't quite tell if the director was poking fun at self-indulgent college grads or just pondering won't-grow-up-ever's. 
But hey. That's why they called it the Brat Pack. And it's quite a showcase of actors &amp; talents, a group well suited to working together. Emilio Estevez is the weakest link here, a pigfaced jerk whom you can feel NO, read that NO, sympathy for. Judd Nelson, Andrew McCarthy, both good actors in their own rights, create a good sense of repartee. Rob Lowe: Man, gives the legacy of Jim Morrison a whole new twinge. Very - how does one say this without undermining acting ability - gorgeous, alright? And honestly, the guy's got chops. This role is good, indulgent eye candy.  The women are really good. I don't honestly like Demi Moore, but this role suits her frenetic personality and high-maintenance looks. Ally Sheedy is in what I consider the best character role of the film, Mare Winningham gets to look absolutely awful but gets compensation - if you call it that - for this in the end, in the form of a going-away present. Be that cryptic, good. I hate telling people ends of films. 
Other than that, not much to say. Fluff, but good fluff, and a very good de-stresser. Wonderful for a "girl's night out" - Can't live with it, can't shoot it. Have fun.