Film buffs and anyone who went to drive-in movies in the 'Sixties will enjoy and learn a lot from this documentary retrospective of Hollywood's premier indie (cult) film maker.  For one thing, Corman employed great actors and directors early in their careers and they provide fascinating interviews and annectdotes about working for him (and learning from him.)  Jack Nicholson, Bruce Dern, David Carradine, Peter Fonda, Dennis Hopper ('The Trip' a psychedelic classic and the precursor to 'Easy Rider') , Ron Howard (his first directorial opportunities), Pam Greer, Martin Scorceese; even Sylvester Stallone (who is not interviewed) worked for Corman and his brother and got something from the experience that went beyond on-screen exposure.  Corman made only one 'socially significant' film--the well-done but money-losing 'The Intruder', a path-breaking film about the importance of the civil rights movement to restoring the core values of America.  This film is shown (in cuts) as dramatic rather than 'preachy.'  Other than that, Corman learned to make 'cheap' films because that was all he could afford if he wanted to stay in his chosen business.  Possibly the least-known side of Corman was that he imported and distributed the work of European 'art' film makers such as Frederico Fellini and Ingmar Bergman.  In short, he was very close to the innovative center of the film making that was being done during his most active time.

I most remember his series of horror films bringing the work of Edgar Allen Poe to the screen and starring Vincent Price--the 'Fall of the House of Usher' and the 'Pit and the Pendulum' stand out. Corman did five of Poe's works in all before he felt he was in danger of 'repeating himself.' Unfortuately, Vincent Price was not alive to be interviewed about this period--perhaps the commercial foundation for Corman's subsequent work.

The cuts shown from his finished films are 'unsparing' of anybody's egos:  he made 'explotation' films that featured cheap 'aliens', barely mechanical monsters, sort of sexy, sort of sado-masochistic views of women and, generally, whatever 'sold popcorn' at the time. (Think 'Boxcar Bertha', 'Bloody Mamma'.)  But, he also did a fine version of 'Little Shop of Horrors'--one of the finest translations of a Broadway classic to the big screen. Along the way, he helped to get American International Pictures off the ground and founded his own New World Films mark.  The future 'big names' he nurtured 'worked cheap' and gained great and useful experience in both acting and directing and, in this biography, remember him fondly as someone who was always cost conscious; who often filmed using shortcuts like not paying for filming licenses and permits and who did whatever was necessary to get a very large number of films 'in the can' and before his (stable, niche) audience. Production values on this documentary may be better than those found in his films and the interviews are truly informative and rise above Hollywood cant.  For interested persons, this documentary from A&E is highly recommended.