In his commentary track on "The Mysterons"--the pilot episode for the series--series co-creator Gerry Anderson remarks that in today's dollars, "Captain Scarlet" would cost the equivalent of three-quarters of a million dollars an episode to produce.
You can see it.
The dedication to quality in this series is nothing short of amazing: the miniature sets include shielded gun emplacements, moving sidewalks, and entire city skylines, and the special effects undoubtedly had some of the Hollywood masters scratching their heads, wondering how Anderson and his crew managed it. As realistic as it seems, though, you can never quite forget you're watching marionettes, but Anderson makes that work FOR the show rather than against it: with complete control over the construction of Scarlet's world and every "person" in it, the crew had the skill and foresight to create a consistent, substantial feel, resulting in a show that is engrossing, visually compelling, and sometimes downright creepy.
On the surface, it looks like a four-color superhero show for children, which probably led to its downfall: the show explores themes too sophisticated for most children using plots that are often too byzantine for casual adult viewers--"Captain Scarlet" requires the sort of dedicated attention only children seem to be capable of these days. Adults will dismiss the show (or embrace its kitsch value) because of the puppetry and obvious miniatures. As good as this show is, it could never have found a wide viewing audience.
But, artistically, it does succeed, and magnificently. The cheesiness of previous Anderson Super-marionation series is minimized in favor of a more realistic, dramatic tone. Take away the rainbow uniforms and code names and you've got a legitimate spy series that focuses on preventing terrorism and assassination attempts, and engages in elaborate manhunts and undercover missions.
This is truly the gem in the Andersons' crown...the show that legitimized their efforts to create drama using the most unlikely approach. Without "Captain Scarlet," there would have been no "UFO" or "Space: 1999."