Well, if you are an empath, you'll enjoy this film. Empaths, in case you didn't know, love getting inside of others, wanting to be able to feel how others feel and feel how they think. This film, in my view, builds from that premise of soul to body consciouness and body to body transfer of the soul's yearning to experience other personality types other than its own.

The premise of this movie is real simple: A "bad" or "evil intentioned" brain, named "Gore", from the planet Arous, flees to the earth, to escape judgement for his crimes done on his own world. This brain is able to "phase shift" its atomic structure so it can enter into an organic body while taking control of it.  However, every 24 hours it must take on its organic form to breathe oxygen, making it vulnerable or mortal, otherwise it is immortal in its phase shifted, spiritual state of existence. When Gore takes over John Agar's character, Gore discovers the pleasures of the earthly flesh and makes many an attempt to come onto his wife, Jane Meadows, which is why I entitled this "The Brain from the Planet Arousal".  The "come ons" are very toned down by today's standards, but no doubt if this was ever updated, allot more would be showed if the story were ever remade.

Anyway, back to the plot. Enters in the "good" brain named "Vol", sent to retrieve Gore and take him back to Arous for his punishment. Until Vol can trap Gore out of the human body he has taken possession of so he can be destoyed, Gore works his plans for world dominance over the earth. The whole film is great actually, including the optical effects for its day; that is until the final scene of the film where you see the wires holding Gore up in the room, while the scientist, whose body was inhabited by Gore, tries to kill Gore with an axe.

The whole ending is a real dissappointment which is why I only gave the movie 4 stars, not 5. You go from this real serious movie to out right hysterics when you see the wires holding up the "materialized" Gore brain in the room. If more had been done to better resolve the final scene in this film, this would have been a sci fi classic in my view, perfect in every way, otherwise the rest of the movie is very well done, both in premise and execution.

It certainly is worth anyone's time to view for the sake of the first 95% of the film. Its almost a total empath's delight to view this film, except for the final scene at the end.