Wasabi, one of the latest products of Luc Besson sector. However anti-American movie fans have raised their `Yankee Go Home' banners; to my mind this comedy - action film which is harmonized with French - Japon sensibilities, can be an alternative film to American movies.
Luc Besson - Jean Reno cooperation is going on. Leading character Hubert is a puncher policeman just like in American movies, ignoring legal details, fighting against the bad people. Again just like in American movies, Hubert has a chief who is complaining and shouting all the times; at the other hand he likes Hubert. Love book of Hubert is empty for 19 years, after a Japon woman has broken his heart and left him with memories, meal descriptions and a beautiful pen. Hubert has closed his love book and has focused on crime world. Then he learns that his Japan woman has died and has left him an inheritance: a daughter. Time for a Japan voyage.
Just focusing on the story, it is easy to think that this film doesn't have any difference from American ones. But this film isn't an American popcorn movie; it is a French / Japan popcorn movie.
There are enough big guns, rocket launchers, bombs; but the action scenes is not in American style, Hubert generally finishes his work quickly with one punch. In American movies the bullets let people fly backward for 2 meters; Hubert can fly people for 5 meters. 
Sense of humor which is full of small coincidences and comic events is extremely French. Lets turn to the Japan side of the film: there are many Japan people.  The beautiful girl of the film is Hubert's Japan daughter Yumi. I find her very cute with her teenage gestures and phone talks beginning with `mochie, mochie'. 
By this film, I've surprised that there are many Japan including policemen and mobsters speaking French very well.
If you want to watch a French (and a little Japan) comedy - action movie similar with American ones (but not in American style), I'll advice you this film. At worst you will lose time.