***Update. Feb.4, 2012. I just received a replacement Blu-ray sent from Image and although the menu is easier to access-- for example the version listed as 20 fps Gabriel Thibaudeau score and the 1929 24 fps version with the Gaylord Carter score, etc. the menu is the only upgrade. The momentary "freeze" moments which is in the first release on the 20 fps version are, sadly, still there. From what I can tell, only the menus were made better, which is both good and bad. It is nice the menu is easier to access for people who buy this new version but sad that the 20 fps movie still has several moments where for a split second the image freezes. Why they left that the same I have no idea. Okay, back to my original review in early November:

I just finished watching one of three versions available on "The Phantom of the Opera" Blu-ray starring Lon Chaney and since then I have checked out the other two versions. First I watched the 20 fps (frames per second) version because I love Gabriel Thibaudeau's score. I was blown away by how sharp the picture looked. I definitely picked up on details I had not noticed before. When the Phantom is in the water, for instance, you can see just how wet the coat is when he climbs back out and details on his face as well. There is also no motion blur as there was on the Milestone release. The one quibble I do have is that there are a few instances in which the movie freezes for a second and then continues running. One place this happens is when Christine jumps up from the couch in the Phantom's cellar. There is a momentary freeze and then also when she wakes up in the morning. It wasn't in Image's DVD release but this appears to be a different print. I have read another writer's review about this problem and he made note of it too. He says the producer of the Blu-ray, David Shepard, is aware of a few of the issues and there apparently will be a second pressing of this Blu-ray with the issues corrected. That is good news. The Alloy Orchestra version, the 24 fps version, did not have the freeze moments. The image details makes this Blu-ray well worth owning. Also, you choose the three versions based on the score. I know that is odd but you choose the Thibaudeau listing on the menu for the 29 version, at 20 fps, and then you choose the Alloy Orchestra Score for the 24 fps 1929 version and you can choose the Gaylord Carter score instead if you wish as it pops up and gives you the choice. The Jon Mirsalis commentary is on the Thibaudeau version and is interesting. Finally, you can choose the 1925 Phantom version by choosing the Frederick Hodges score. Although this is a bit different way to choose, I did not find it complicated. The Bonus features include a Phantom Trailer and the Thibauddeau interview, which was interesting. Also included are reproduction program photos as well as the shooting script on screen. I understand Milestone will release a version next year which will include the Carla Laemle interview from their DVD release a few years ago and a few other items. In the meantime, I am fully happy I purchased this. The Phantom, believe me, has never looked better and again, there is no motion blur. This is a Sweet release. I highly recommend it if you love Chaney and/or the Phantom. One thing I should add is that you get the proper aspect ratio. If you have a widescreen TV it is displayed in a square fashion as the movie was originally presented. If you own the "Wizard of Oz" on Blu-ray, it is identical in the way it is presented. It is so cool to see the Phantom in HD! Purchase this one today. You will be glad you did.