"Hendrix" isn't exactly a top-notch movie, in fact, in many ways it's a real dud.  However, it is a movie that is indeed worth seeing at least once if you're a Jimi Hendrix fan.  Admittedly there are many problems with it, and while it has some positive aspects it's not easy to overlook the downsides.
First and foremost the movie very hastily covers Hendrix's early years, most notably his childhood, which should have been focused on more.  His cold relationship with his mother is hardly established, aside from a brief scene between the two.  Another important part of Jimi's life, his tenure in the U.S. Army as a Paratrooper is very hastily done and is quite dissapointing.  While it's entertaining to see Jimi outplay Little Richard and then get booted off the tour for doing so, it's incorrect, I wont bore you with facts, but it's something to keep in mind.  Jimi's time as a studio musician is only mentioned by Jimi himself during one or two scenes, and that's about it.
Now I can overlook those facts, but the thing that dissapoints me the most is how they handled The Experience.  Bassist Noel Redding, while with some short and so-so scenes, is hardly paid any mind to, and even less for drummer Mitch Mitchell.  They fail to truely give Hendrix's band mates credit, nor do they do justice to the charisma between the three.  Hendrix's time after The Experience with The Band of Gyspys is served even less time, another important fact to Jimi's career brushed aside.  
Another flaw are the "musicians" themselves...they aren't even playing the instruments or making any attempt to make it look like they are for that matter.  During several drum rolls Mitch Mitchell sits there and hits one cymbal, it looks quite ridiculous to say the least.  Even Hendrix himself looks like he's just an amature who walked into a guitar shop, plucking the strings.  Last, but not least, is the movie uses no actualy Hendrix recordings, calling upon studio musicians to try and mock Hendrix, as many reviewers have mentioned before, the National Anthem at Woodstock is almost painful to listen to.  
So why see this movie just once? To be honest, while I took issue with all of these negative facts, I still enjoyed it to a degree.  Wood Harris, who plays Hendrix, does a fairly good job of capturing Jimi, though this is almost impossible to do.  The dialogue between Hendrix and others is entertaining with some unrealistic yet memorable lines.  I was glad that Hendrix's conflict between appealing to a mainstream white audience and appealing to his black roots was shown during a conversation with two Black Panther representatives.  
If you're a Hendrix fan, be prepared for this movie to have it's flaws, but don't dwell on them, see it at least once for the positive aspects, not the negatives.  As for the three men who wrote this, if you plan to write a more in depth sequel of sorts, do it right this time.  A movie about Jimi Hendrix needs time to establish his life, his career and his downfall, even if it meant a three hour film, I don't know of one Hendrix fan who wouldn't enjoy every minute of it.