War heroes are not what the once were.  We know of their actions and their trails but little do we remember their names, their home towns, or what they were fighting for.  However, there is one exception to this, the war heroes of the world wars.  It is easy to name off men from those times and what they did.  In this day and age we have almost completely forgotten those heroes of World War I most if not all veterans of the war have passed on now, yet we should still remember these brave men for their sacrifice during the first war and their determination to make that the "war to end all wars".  To help us with this task of remembrance, we take a look at Sergeant York, a Howard Hawks film from 1941.

The film tells the tale of Alvin York (Gary Cooper in an Oscar winning role), a rural Tennessee man who has more interest in fighting and drinking than farming or settling down.  We learn early on the York is a crack shot by shooting his initials into a tree outside the town church.  York soon discovers Gracie Williams (Joan Leslie) a local girl that York competes for with another local farmer and tries to set his life straight.  He works for a solid 2 months to raise 60 dollars for a farm of his own so he would have the ability to marry Gracie only to see this land sold to Gracie's other suitor.  York, in frustration, goes back to his drinking ways and on a ride home during a violent thunderstorm, he is struck by lighting and lives, only to find religion and become a model citizen of the town.  Soon after, the United States declares war and the men of the town rush to sign up for the armed services, all men but York.  York tries to be exempted due to being a consciousness objector but sent away to basic training anyway.  While in basic training York impresses his superior officers with his shooting ability and is promoted before being sent over to Europe.  Once there, York has to lead his squad during the battle of the Argonne Forest where York, almost single handily, takes out the German defenses and captures over 100 men.

Gary Coopers Alvin York is one of those film characters that seemed the perfect fit for the actor and time frame.  The film was released in mid-September 1941, a little of 3 months before Pearl Harbor and was accused of being pro-war by many pacifist/isolationist at the time.  Yet, the film doesn't really cross on or the other line on war, rather letting the viewer decided, along with York, what the right decision is for him.  In the end, York gives his commanding officer the reasoning behind his logic for killing all those Germans and it is an answer you hear a lot, both in movies and real life.  (No, I'm not going to tell you what it is, watch the film to learn what it is).

Cooper is an inspired casting for the role, and was the hand picked person for the job by the real Alvin York himself at the time.  It is hard to picture someone else pulling off that role.  Cooper is the greatest every man to act in film.  His stature and features were not awe-inspiring but his actions on screen showed that he was a man to be reckoned with.  You have to wonder what Cooper would be like today if he was acting.  Most likely he would be a character actor for movies and not have the fame and notoriety that he has now.  The best example I can think of an actor being on Cooper's level would be Michael Parks and his many characters that he has played over the years.

The war in this film occupies very little of the film, taking only a portion of the last act and moves very quickly.  We do not see how York lived or interacted with his fellow soldiers other than boot camp and we certainly don't see other battle experience other than Argonne Forest battle.  Outside this fact, the movie does an excellent job establishing York and his character in the film.  I enjoyed the ending in New York where a still humble York asks to go home and turns down a six figure paycheck for endorsements for farming.  To me, which summed up York in the best way possible, he did what was right in his mind with his beliefs and he didn't want any more than the next man for what he did.

In my limited research for this review, I found that most of the movie was fairly accurate to the life of York, though his conversion to religion did not happen in the flash of lighting bolt but with a steadfast attention of his wife and going to Sunday school masses. I'm sure there are other smaller items floating around here and there but that's not a bad record of inaccuracies compared to most "true story" films these days.