...because producers and directors should know a hopeless script when they read it.

There is a crow in the movie, but most of the symbolism pictured in the story is about ravens. After all, ravens feature prominently in Native American folklore, a fact which the movie repeatedly tries, but always fails to convincingly emulate.

While the villains in the original Crow as well as City of Angels dabbled in mysticism and magick, this installment takes it a step further. The villain aspires to become the Devil, or the Antichrist, or both. It isn't really possible to understand from the horrible lines and bad audio balance. The most depressing part of the movie actually begins as Dennis Hopper appears as the literal satanic priest (Anton Szandor LeVey would probably die of shame at this appearance), and begins an impossible to understand sermon on the incarnation of Lucifer on Earth.

Tara Reid manages to wear the same facial expression throughout the entire movie, up to the end, when she puts on sunglasses. Ms Reid should therefor only appear in movies wearing shades, as this greatly enhances her performance. At least, this way you don't immediately notice the complete absence of any acting talent whatsoever.

While the third installment of the Crow series, SALVATION, was a teenie take on the subject matter, with less blood, less adult content and a shining beacon of talent in the form of Kirsten Dunst, this unofficial part IV definitely spells the downfall of the saga.

If one were to measure the deterioration of the Crow series by the main actor's make-up, then it probably figures that in two scenes, Eddie Furlong goes about his business with apparently none whatsoever.

The picture quality is mediocre at best. Apparently, the production tried to create a somewhat mystical atmosphere by using perpetual twilight offset with glaring sunshine, but it doesn't work. In fact, the effect is more of a general fogging of the focus, perpetually obscuring details,

The sound is slightly better, although admittedly the soundtrack is the worst of all Crow movies. The Dark Rock that accompanied the previous installments is replaced with some Country and Soft Rock, while the ending is sounded over by a terrible kitsch ballad that really destroys any hope for redemption.

If you still haven't had enough of this movie, you can try the extras, which are suprisingly oppulent given that this is a Dimension Film straight-to-video release. However, they fail to add anything worthwile to this sorry excuse for a supernatural thriller.

Summing up, don't buy, or even better, forget it exists.