John Singleton's movie paints a bleak potrait on the state of black people in L.A. As a matter of fact, Singleton's movie does the biggest disservice to the communities of South Central Los Angeles. I graduated from Crenshaw High School Gifted Magnet (a school only a few footsteps away from where the movie Baby Boy was shot). I've been going to school for over 10 years in South Central and I have never once witnessed a drive-by shooting or seen someone get shot. When I visit my relatives they think they way Black Los Angelenos live is a life full of bloodshed and violence. No one in my family is a gangmember and I am not related to any gang members. I am a black male and I now attend the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Singleton's stereotypical depiction of Los Angeles Afro-Americans is biased, prejudiced and counterproductive. 
Yes, I do see the need for freedom of speech and freedom of expression, but at what cost? The characters in the movie were not real life characters to me because I know no one in real life who would act like Jody or Yvette any of the other main characters. This movie depicts young black men in all of the common media stereotypes: lazy, implusive, violent, unfaithful, selfish, gang-involved, incarcerated, cheats, con-artists, hoodlums, rapists, womanizers, woman beaters, trigger-happy, etc. Black women are depicted as loud, attidunal, stupid, classless, thug-loving, and dependent. Of course, not all black people act like this. Since I am black, I see many more depictions of my own people on a daily basis as lawyers, doctors, professionals, pre-med majors, thoughtful mothers, beautiful loving fathers, etc. The thing that I find wrong with the film is that it offers no sort of growth. It's cyclical. All of the characters remain in their same tattered state. A man was shot...and suddenly it's happily ever after? A woman was beat...a suddenly it's lover's lane in the park? The ending of the film was ignorant and too utopian to be called "real-life" or a true depiction.
I was deeply offended that Singleton chose the route of stereotypist. Instead of trying to find different views and bring different viewpoints to the table. He uses the same, tired 'Hood formula that he rode to success with Boyz N The Hood. I am disappointed in the way Singleton showcases Black Los Angeles. Maybe because Singleton grew up in an environment full of dimwitted-women, animalistic men and gangs, doesn't mean that all of Black California is like that. 
I can recall my freshman year of college last year. I was an out-of-state student in Michigan. I told them I was from Los Angeles. The reactions that they gave me were "whoa, you're from LA, have you ever been shot at?"..."LA must be really violent, how did you survive?" I've been asked these questions many times and it's startling. People outside of the community of South Central view it as a huge ghetto with gunfire being shot day in and day out. It's not the case. You have many different people in South Central just like any other community. And oh yeah, NOT EVERYONE IS GANG AFFLIATED. Sure gangs exist, but it's not to the point where we fear for our lives on an hour-to-hour basis, those are isolated incidents. Singleton, in his "bluntness" decides to throw dozens of normally isolated situations such as being attacked by a gang, drive-by shootings, etc. and act like it's normal livng. Well, it's not. I've never had aspirations of being a gang member and as a matter of fact I've never even talked to anyone in a gang. They were usually lowlifes that stuck to themselves and perished accordingly, unforunately. Also, why is it everytime Singleton does a movie on South Central there's the stereotypical drive-by sequence, that is so stupid. I've never had a drive-by on my street and none of my many friends who also live in South Central have never experienced a drive-by.
These are the many qualms I have about the film. I appreciate the great direction by Singleton, but as a writer, there were many loopholes in his script. The film itself went nowhere and was very cyclical. Many unnecessary vignettes. What was Snoop's purpose in the movie other than to add another "big name rapper for credibilty." It's so stupid. Singleton should be ashamed. He doesn't even live in South Central anymore. The community he talks about is one that was Pre-1992. Sure gangs and crime exist, but not to the extent Singleton glorifies. He doesn't offer any solutions to the problems of gangs or anything, he just sensationalizes the situation. He has done a major disservice to the community of South Central Los Angeles and it is a sad story. People who walk away from this film happy and not questioning themselves or the characters' actions afterwards are really lost and oblivious to misrepresentation of South Central's citizens. I could go on for a whole other essay talking about the loopholes of the script and the characters in a sociological and historical perspective, but that would be a book.