You know, the Amityville freak that I am, I have to say that although the producers of this movie had the right idea, it just didn't scare me the way the first and even the second Amityville movies did. One thing that was lacking in the 3-D movie here was the fact that much, if not all of the movie was taking place during the daytime. The first Amityville movie featured frightening hauntings, strange voices and eerie occurences in the early, early morning hours(between 2-4 A.M.), which are creepy hours to begin with. And I also felt that the fly scenes are a bit old by now, it's time after the first and second movies to start with some newer and different types of hauntings. The only time I felt that the movie did start to pick up was near the end, the last twenty minutes or so in the basement, which I won't give away. But I will say that it went on late at night, which is when the majority of the movie's spooky occurences should've taken place. The basement of that house was always to me, the downright scariest damn part of the house. On the plus side, I will give the producers of the movie credit for using the exact same house for this movie as the original movie used. Because if you're going to make an Amityville movie, it helps immensely to use the exact same house. And another scene that I felt was REALLY REALLY chilling(and made me feel as though the story is finally about to pick up) is when Lori Loughlin(the daughter of the home owner in this movie who is beautiful as always), goes out onto the lake with her friends on the boat that's tied to the dock in the back of the house. But, I also won't give away what happens there. It is worth taking a look at if you're an Amityville freak like me, but if you haven't seen any Amityville movies yet, watch the original Amityville movie FIRST. And watch it on DVD. The color has been restored so greatly on the DVD it's unbelievable. And watch it late at night, between 1-4 a.m. for the best chilling effects. "Amityville 2:The Possession" Is the second edition of the Amityville series, and I felt that for a sequel, it was VERY underrated and it has some very, very creepy, cr-eepy moments in it. it uses the original Amityville house as well, and the mother AND older daughter are VERY, VERY beautiful which also helps. I'd call the second Amityville movie a MUST SEE as well, especially for the scenes during the last 15 minutes of the movie. All I can say is, wait 'til you see what happens in that dreaded basement later on in the movie!!