This movie is one of those mysteries of Hollywood.  Why we got two movies about Truman Capote's writing of "In Cold Blood" is hard to fathom.  If "Capote" had not been made, this movie would have been more widely received than it has been.  Let's just admit from the start that "Capote" and Philip Seymour Hoffman created the more powerful and charismatic Truman, but Capote is more or less an impression of them man than an embodiment or impersonation of him.  Toby Jones captures the physical presence and the strange way Truman spoke more completely.  However, the Jones version plays more needy and less self-assured (but similarly tortured) than the Seymour Hoffman Truman.  I don't prefer one over the other and enjoyed both.  I have not heard anyone who knew Truman comment on which was more "accurate".

While both movies deal with Capote's homosexuality in some way, this movie is more frank and takes it further than "Capote" does.  Some may find the overt displays of sexuality in this film disturbing, but it is never graphic.  Where in "Capote" the relationship between Truman and Perry Smith is dominated by the manipulative writer, the relationship in "Infamous" is manipulative and desperate on both sides.  Which it actually was, I do not know.  Does anyone really know since the parties involved are dead?  Would Truman's testimony about it be reliable?  Didn't it change over time?  I love the scene where Truman is recounting something Perry told him and changing it slightly for different groups of people to gauge the effect.  For the book, he chooses the version for effect not accuracy.

Sandra Bullock is terrific in her portrayal of Nelle Harper Lee.  Frankly, it was such a delight seeing such a wonderful characterization that I didn't recognize her at first.  Usually she portrays the trademark sunny and goofy character despite the name or plot, and that is enjoyable, but this turn as a character was a real treat.  Jeff Daniels is also very good as the lawman Alvin Dewey who at first denies Truman access and then befriends him and enables Capote's ability to get information for the book.

The movie employs a technique of interviewing the characters who knew Truman as if the actors were the people providing insights for a documentary.  Some people have objected to this, but I kind of liked it.

I enjoyed this movie and admired its accomplishments.  Is it as strong a movie as "Capote"?  No.  However, it has some marvelous scenes.  As just a few examples, the scene at the end with Truman going through the things Perry Smith left him is very powerful.  Also, Sigourney Weaver has some marvelous scenes as Babe Paley and shows the powerful emotional connections Truman had with many women throughout his life.  I also liked Peter Bogdanovich as Truman's editor and publisher, Bennett Cerf.  When no one else would go to the hanging with Truman, it was Cerf who accompanied him.

I would recommend seeing both films and appreciating each for its strengths rather than trying to pit one movie against the other.

Reviewed by Craig Matteson, Ann Arbor, MI