This show boasts a rawer approach to the the teen high school genre, it comes close to actually showing sex and has no problem going into the minds of the males that would fornicate with just about any pretty girl that would have them.

Life as we know it does some things that are good, but ruins them somewhat by not truly committing to the serious, everyday concerns.  The things it presents that are commendable include: parental separation, divorce, starting over, monetary responsibility etc.  It's as immature as you would expect and in some ways the way it deals with these issues sometimes better than I expected. One of the best things about the show are the non-photogenic uncool people just coming up and talking to these guys and pretending like they're friends, it's priceless when it happens and it's almost a bad thing since it raises the question of do these guys only talk to people when the script requires them to be extroverted outside of their close knit of friends.  Furthermore, I feel the constant asides the three main characters make are unnecessary and ruin the raw sexual feel and immature character of the show by making these characters actions somehow seem more wholesome and likeable when they're not.  That is my opinion and I know that people disagree, but my vote is that the gimmmick is one of the things dragging the show into not being as good as it could be.

The show doesn't truly take any of the romantic relationships seriously which is why show feels like it's going to fast and doesn't stop to really appreciate the nitty gritty details of what a raw depiction of teenage life should be.  Ben's relationship in the beginning happens way too fast to be believable (even if it does happen that way in real life) and Dino's troubles with Jackie are just too grievous for it to be possible for them to be any more than friends from that point on. More importantly (and confusingly) the show both does, and doesn't get how to portray the family unit.  While Sue's family works wonderfully, as portrayed, Jackie's, Jonathan's, and Ben's don't have enough time to build.  It's the worst off in Jackie

s situation especially with her father being a drunk, we can't truly feel sorry for her if we don't really see what her life could be if he wasn't a drunk.  Although that's bad, the tragic thing is about Ben's family because he has a wonderful cast to portray them and Ben himself is the best performance of the show. Dylan Baker and Betsy Ann Baker (from Freaks and Geeks) are always good, but just feel tacked on most of the time so that when the episode comes where they have a serious conflict with Ben you feel like you don't really know them and here's where it becomes obvious that when it comes to shows about the youth experience, there's the men and the boys.  Freaks and Geeks is the man because it never really had to justify why it would spend an episode with the parents as a strong storyline because the storyline was so well written and in this series you don't really feel (I didn't) that there was a storyline, just ideas that never really came together and the writers expected the audience not to recognize this because of the good looking actors and the constant asides to them.  This is discouraging since some of the same producers from Freaks and Geeks worked on this show and a number of the cast members who pop up on the show were from Freak and Geeks, as well as other quality entertainments.  It's strange when this happens because the show almost doesn't know what to do with them due to the fact the show isn't about them, but they're clearly better than the show they're on. Even the main characters seem lost when this happens, like when the three protagonists get the new job at the wilderness store.  The only time the character acting role integrates itself is when Peter Dinklage plays the counselor.  It feels just right and makes the characters truly work to become real.

As a whole, I don't recommend it to people who are fans of Freaks and Geeks, a truly well-made series, but since this series is better than many series that remain on the air, I recommend it to people who believe that TV on DVD is stupid and unnecessary, I do believe this series deserves an audience on DVD, despite my objections, because Disney makes entertainment for mass audiences and families and I think there's something for the teenager, broken family, or even the cocky kid who looks like Tom Cruise who never got over himself in high school. Plus, there's tons of eye candy for the people who don't watch it for the story development (probably a lot more than I would care to guess).