On July 9, 2010, Universal Pictures and Illumination Entertainment released Despicable Me in theaters across the United States. Starring a plethora of well-known actors and actresses, including Steve Carrel and Julie Andrews, the movie was a success, raking in close to $57,000,000 on just the opening weekend. The person who wrote the storyline was Sergio Pablos, who was also one of the executive producers for this film.
 The main characters for Despicable Me are Dr. Gru, Vector, Margo, Edith and Agnes. Doctor Gru is an evil villain, Vector is Dr. Gru's "evil" nemesis, and Margo, Edith and Agnes are three orphan sisters. Taking place in a suburban neighborhood that is surrounded by white-picket fences, flower gardens and beautiful green lawns sits a house that sticks out like a sore thumb. Characterized by the dead lawn and towering structure, Dr. Gru's house is definitely the most recognizable. Also very identifiable is his car, which is a massive car/airship. Vector also lives in a unique house and drives a car/airship; however they seem more futuristic, while Gru's seems very villain-like. While Vector and Gru live by themselves, Margo, Edith and Agnes live with a terrible warden named Miss Hattie. While other children have the mother-figure in their lives, these three helpless girls are stuck with a cynical lady who gets her laughs from making little girls sleep in the Box of Shame. These are just a few of the characters and settings throughout the movie.
 After hearing news that a super-villain has stolen a pyramid, Gru and his minions have decided to pull off the biggest heist the world has ever seen: stealing the moon. However, there is one thing that he needs to pull it off: the shrink ray. The only problem is that his nemesis, Vector, has the shrink ray and is not willing to give it up because he, too, wants to steal the moon. While Gru was trying to break into Vector's lair, three orphaned girls named Margo, Edith and Agnes sell Vector cookie dough. Being the mastermind that he is, he adopts the three girls and  uses them to capture the shrink ray. As he spends more quality time, he starts becoming more of a father-figure and losing focus of stealing the moon. Will he become the ultimate super-villain? Or become the father-figure these girls need?
 Despicable Me has many underlying themes, but the one that I think that stands out the most is that no matter how "evil" you are, there's always a good side to people. For example, Gru is arguably the "baddest" villain on the block, with his demeaning and condescending attitude throughout the movie. As soon as he adopts the children though, his attitude slowly starts turning around. Now the person who was once the most feared villain in town is now softening up into a role model for Margo, Edith and Agnes. Showing that he cared about them and not about stealing the moon shows that he has changed into the father-figure the girls needed.
 I love this movie! Seeing that this movie is an animated movie, I can understand that most people would recommend this for young children. However, I would recommend this movie to people of all ages. Although this movie might seem childish, it has lessons that everyone can learn from. This movie is hilarious, with mild, but not crude or distasteful humor. Whether you're watching it with your friends or family, this movie is perfect for just about any time.