First off, I just want to say that I love this movie series and, to a lesser extent, this particular movie.  I've said from the moment I walked out of the theater after seeing it that the filmmakers could have EASILY added another hour or so to the length of the movie to make it fantastic.  And what's with the title?  Last Stand!  Come on, there are so many things they haven't covered yet:  Apocalypse, Sentinels, the Morlocks, and, as many others have been saying, Gambit and lots more of Angel.

Having said that, compared to a movie of this size and importance (and budget), this is a pretty bare-bones dvd, especially for a "Collectors Edition."  In fact, the only real difference between this and the regular widescreen version is that it comes with a little comic book (in fact it's a re-print of an old one-time X-Men comic that marks the additions of Wolverine, Storm, Colossus, Nightcrawler, and Thunderbird to the X-Men, but I hardly think that justifies spending an extra 4 bucks).

The one thing I noticed right off the bat that shocked me was that there is not a single behind the scenes featurette!  With all of the special effects and cool fight scenes in this movie, there should be at least a few really good featurettes.  Secondly, what the dvd does have, deleted scenes, alternate endings, and some other [...], are nothing really special.  Most of the deleted scenes are just slight variations of some scenes already in the movie (the extended version of the fight scene at Jean's house was pretty cool though) and the "alternate endings" are really disappointing.  Two are just short, alternate scenes that don't really conclude anything and the last one doesn't really make any sense (Spoiler:  Why in the world would Wolverine want to go back to Canada?).

How can they possibly call this a "Collector's Edition" if it's only one disc and has absolutely no featurettes!  They should have slowed down and taken their time with this one.  Come on, even Napoleon Dynamite had a 2 disc dvd set!