What else can be said about James Cameron that hasent already been said? Well, how about this....he is a dual-edged sword. On the one hand, you have a master craftsman in all areas of filmmaking, screenwriting, and forward-thinking technical/visual excellence, vision, and ambition. It would be difficult to think of too many individuals who are in that same league.

But at the same time, you have a very cheesy (ya, I said it!) individual who populates his films and screenplays with the same unbelievable stereotypes over and over again. The dialog is beyond corny, the storyline is nothing more then variations on extremely common (and tired) themes we've seen since the early days of film. He makes movies for the masses, and the masses are hungry. Hungry for what? Cheese, of course. They like their fromage any way they can get it. Do his films suck because of this? Oh farts no. But are they unique stories with complex, interesting, or true-to-life characters that turn a passive bit of entertainment into an experience which enriches your life in some way other then having a semi-thrilling 2+ hours spent sitting on your bloated rear end? Some would say no.

But in his defense, I strongly doubt he'd call himself a master of unique and/or artistic storytelling. He makes entertaining action films which nearly always push the envelope of what is technically (and financially!) possible at that time.

The Abyss shows him at his best, and excelling in those areas where he is quite possibly second to none. To call this film ambitious would be a massive understatement. But dont take my word for it, watch the endless (and highly informative/entertaining) bonus features on the second disc. When this film was made, it might have been historically, the most difficult film ever produced.

But I must say, the usual Cameron cheesiness finds multiple opportunities to make you say "oh what, stop it"! I remember when I saw this in the theater, during one particular scene, a man somewhere in the theater screamed out "oh get the F%$K out of here!".

An entertaining film, nonetheless.

On a semi-unrelated rant, to those who maintain his sequel to Alien is better then the original directed by Ridley Scott...please shut your pie-holes and feed another slice of delicious chocolate cake into it. The original, made for only 8 million, was a ground-breaking film in terms of it's affect on that genre. Some would say it was the most imitated sci-fi/thriller/monster film ever made, and I would have to agree with that. Cameron's infinitely more expensive version certainly wasnt bad at all. Damn great, actually. But whom do we applaud? Most of what Cameron used in his sequel, were more expensive versions of the same themes and gimmicks that worked so well in the original.

...but with the addition of cheesy dialog. He merely expanded upon a superb film with great special effects (for the time).

There you have it.

In this reviewers opinion, James Cameron is absolutely inhuman in terms of a brutally masterful technician and director, but an average storyteller/artist/writer (at best). Makes one sort of wonder though, how shockingly different things would be if this mans talent matched his skills...in all areas! You'd end up with films so bowel-shakingly and disturbingly good, that you'd possibly get diarrhea from the sheer brilliance of it.

I hope such an individual is never born, I dont think the average movie-goer would be able to take it.

Cheers.