From Bruce Lee to Jackie Chan to Jet Li and now to Tony Jaa.

After looking at the thai version, Tom Yum Goong, i was completely blown away in every aspect. The chases, action sequences, choreography and mind blowing hand to hand combat were perfectly executed, oh there were some excellent choice of weapons thrown in the mix too---> ELEPHANT BONES!! DAMN! That is as original one can get. Also seeing that Jaa uses no fancy camera tricks, strings and things of that nature is even more impressive. This is as hi-impact, in terms of speed, strength and pure agression, a movie can get. Jaa has really learnt how to use his body efficiently and effectively given any circumstance. I like how he also shows he can adapt his unique Muay Thai Martial Arts to any opponents fighting style into counter offensive attacks. Kinda reminds you of Bruce huh.

He says in an interview to expect even more originality and things no one even imagined before in his currentlty producing film ONG BAK 2 (which started filming in October2006). I have absolutely no reason to doubt the man and can't wait to see Ong Bak 2 and his follow up movies eg. SWORD.

I see some critics on the net complaining that there is no story. DAMN! whats wrong with some people. It has enough of a story and combines very well with all the action. If you want stories well just go buy the shawshank redemption or forrest gump! and leave us people who like to have some fun as well!

Soon as this DVD (The Protector) is released i'm buying it...tho i already have Tom Yum Goong on DVD..the movie is that good! I just want both versions... :)

Mr Jaa. if you happened to read this keep on doing what you do best and don't stray from your style of movie making...IT WORKS!!!...keep up the impressive work and thanks for carrying on this genre of film. I don't have to keep watching my Bruce Lee collection over and over and over to get a taste of great martial arts, now i can look forward to your future projects. Hope you read English..lol.