Lady in the Water fuses claustrophobic environment with the possibility of spiritual release and knowledge. It has a central internal conflict--dark atmosphere vs. spiritual hopefulness-- that jangles and intrigues. Atmosphere unsettles attempted cheerfulness; there's subversive creepiness at work.

The film is set in a Rear Window-esque apartment complex. The complex seems omnipotent, total, engulfing. It's a lot like Stepford Village; as viewers, we're in it and we can't get out. The icky, thick summer heat, continual throughout the movie, adds to our sense of constriction. The heat covers everything with layers of sweat and grime; even at night, the heat is a force that the characters must reckon with.

A sense of dreaminess and otherworldliness shift through the film's claustrophobic environs. Chalk those alluring, mirage-like qualities up to the editing and to the murky, heavily shadowed lighting. Chalk them up to the disorienting narrative, in which events happen quickly but cover only a few days. The dreaminess and claustrophobia make us feel drunk, elated.

The characters are strongly, sometimes irritatingly, stereotypical--but maybe director M. Night Shyamalan is playing with stereotypes. The characters' good-heartedness just needs to be brought out--and thank goodness for the lady from the water, who can do exactly that. She depends on the kindness of strangers. She's a dreary sprite who at any moment could turn into something from The Exorcist, Kill Bill, or The Sound of Music. When is she gonna turn into a tough girl?

None of the spiritual progress that the characters make feels right. In fact, it almost feels downright wrong. There's something leaden and very off about how well that nice neighbor lady over there, and that eccentric body builder here, and the others come together. These characters seem to be reaching for Protestant ideas in a heathen, mythology-laden environment. Their earnestness is incongruous with the creepy atmosphere, the inescapable apartment complex, and the elusive dreaminess of narrative.

I love the frank fantasy of the film. Shyamalan makes no attempts to defend the existence of these creatures, either human or aquatic. The world here is self-contained, much like the world of Shyamalan's The Village... and that's what makes it so amazingly claustrophobic and creepy; that's what makes it seem so unnervingly playful, both funny and serious. How deliciously intriguing it all is.