I had to finish this movie in two sessions because I fell asleep during the first one. In a bizarre twist, I woke up thinking the movie had suddenly become awesome; the aerial shot of the Aussie coastline* as the soldiers battled it out using machine guns while on jet skis somehow redeemed the first 45 minutes of the movie.

After figuring something was amiss, I queued the movie to the last scene I remembered before drifting off--sorry to say, my dream was better, but at least the final half was better than the first. Essentially it's a B movie with C movie problems; the kind you expect to find in the "cheap" movie bin.

A group of soldiers decide to use a high tech government virtual reality simulation computer for their own fun and games, but a ghost decides to join the party. As the story unfolds, we learn there's something even more sinister going on.

In the beginning, what seemed like a completely random subplot turned out to be poorly executed foreshadowing. In fact, this movie is filled with plenty of poorly executed foreshadowing at all the wrong moments and overacting when nuance would have been called for.  It wasn't entirely the actors' faults, though--the writer (and director) deserves some of the blame.

As a plus, the cold and dark atmosphere and visual effects were good--especially when the simulations were running; it had a Rainbow Six computer game feel.  The story was good, if not well-done, with a nice twist at the end.

The DVD has a 30 min. featurette detailing how the movie was made along with cast members explaining their characters and the movie's "deeper" meanings, some other random facts about the film's "haunted" location, and stunt coordination. There's also a 10 min. interview with the writer, Sven Hughes, and the movie's 2 min. trailer.

While this movie isn't going down in history as one of the greats, I could think of worse ways to spend a couple hours.

(*This is a UK production, so I have no idea why that setting popped into my head.)