"Up in the Air" had all the ingredients to be a great film: accomplished director and writer, talented actors, a clever and timely topic. And yet something feels amiss in this film, as though it came so close to the mark but just didn't quite make it.

George Clooney is Ryan Bingham, a man whose job entails flying about the country laying off employees because their bosses don't want to do the dirty work themselves. Ryan is a man who is detached from everyone in his life, and is convinced that he doesn't have a need for human connection and interaction. Throughout the film, two things happen: first, he is forced to take on a young trainee (Natalie Keener, played by Anna Kendrick) and show her his business, and second, he meets Alex Goran (Vera Farmiga) a fellow professional traveler with whom he begins a relationship. The film follows these characters as they connect and disconnect and try to make sense of one another.

The characters are compelling, and at times the film is poignant, but overall the whole is not greater than its parts. Perhaps part of the problem was the feeling that two stories were being told: the first act of the film focuses on Natalie and her travels with Ryan, and then Natalie disappears for much of the second act, which centers around Ryan and Alex. Both stories are compelling, but they don't fit together very well, and as a result neither feels like it received proper treatment. This is not to say that films must end well-resolved and clear-cut; this is not the case. Nevertheless the characters in the film should undergo some sort of arc, and I'm forced to question whether the characters here were given enough time to have an arc, or if their stories were cut short but trying to fit too much into one film. The story for the most part is engaging, though it is often predictable and occasionally tedious, and I wonder if it couldn't have been a more nuanced film.

This is not to say "Up in the Air" is a bad film -- it is not by any means. It is fun (albeit depressing) and Clooney and Farmiga are both excellent in their roles. Director Jason Reitman is an accomplished filmmaker, though next to his past efforts, "Juno" and "Thank You For Smoking," "Up in the Air" is his weakest film.

Perhaps my expectations were set too high by all of the acclaim and hype the movie received, but it is my belief that this film had the potential to be far greater than it was. It is certainly worth a watch, but something about it doesn't quite add up.