This review is just for the film itself, not this particular DVD.

I love this film so much that I could actually call it my favorite of all time.

For all the great philosophies of the world and all the current media on "The Law of Attraction," etc., "Limelight" offers the same substance delivered, in just a little over two hours, with such tremendous artistic efficacy that all the truths worth knowing in life are conveyed directly to the heart. Moreover, the film's transcendent theme music, so melancholically beautiful, only deepens the heart's understanding further.

Although the film's story is fanciful, it is so thoroughly human, the flow of events and dialogue so natural, that just about anyone, anywhere, at any time, in any walk of life could relate to its sympathies. I say "just about" because the film could be a bore to someone entirely of mundane orientation, although I believe that even someone of "meat and potatoes" nature would still be able to taste and appreciate the bittersweetness of this story that very much addresses the relationship of dependency and conflict between life and art, reality and imagination, the mundane and the sublime.

Being long on dialogue, "Limelight" defies the typical requisite of screenwriting, "show, don't tell;" however, the dialogue is so rich and inspired that it not only entertains but educates and so complements the eloquent body language of Charles Chaplin that at times it is as though the dialogue and Chaplin's physical artistry become engaged in a conversation all their own, which is fascinating to watch.

While sparse dialogue may be best for expressionist films of epic adventure, this film cherishes its dialogue in being an epic adventure of the soul, a poetic experience never wasted in words, only enhanced by them.

I can say personally that many times I have experienced the sense of futility and despondency of the film's character, Thereza, though certainly not to the point of attempted suicide, as depicted in the film; however, I believe that there are many forms of suicide and its attempts in which people end the lives of their hopes and dreams, and all that is required to revitalize the hearts of zombies is one significant encounter with Truth, which is what this film is about. "Limelight" is also about how that one significant encounter comes to be, how the Hand of Fate, the Law of Attraction, brings to us exactly what we need to survive - or perish, as the case may be. To quote Albert Schweitzer, "In everyone's life, at some time, our inner fire goes out. It is then burst into flame by an encounter with another human being. We should all be thankful for those people who rekindle the inner spirit." Charles Chaplin remains one of those people.

"Limelight" is also valuable historically in providing authentically-styled performances from the music hall days of London, which defined Chaplin's youth and influenced his renowned silent-screen persona. It is interesting to see how the standards of humor have changed and were changing as part of the film's story. The skits seem ridiculous by today's standards, yet they are genuinely imaginative and in fact possess more investment of creativity than any of what passes for humor these days. "Childish" could describe the style - but indeed, with all the depth of simple philosophy that children actually do possess before social conditioning educates them to ruin.

Here are some of my favorite quotes from "Limelight:"

"Life is a desire, not a meaning."

"The meaning of anything is merely words for the same thing."

"Billions of years it's taken to evolve human consciousness ... the miracle of all existence, more important than anything in the whole universe. ... Can the sun think? Is it conscious? No, but you are."

"There is something just as inevitable as death, and that's life - life, life, life! Think of the power that's in the universe, moving the earth, growing the trees, and that's the same power within you, if you only have courage and the will to use it!"

"What is there to fight for? Everything! Life itself, isn't that enough? To be lived, suffered, enjoyed ..."

"As a child, I used to complain to my father about not having toys, and he would say, this {the mind} is the greatest toy ever created. Here lies the secret of all happiness."

"You're alive and you'd better make the best of it."

"Life can be wonderful, if you're not afraid of it. All it needs is courage, imagination, and a little dough."

"Live without hope. Live for the moment. There are still wonderful moments."

"Life is a local affair."