I was a little disappointed with this movie, but I suspect my expectations were set too high based on some glowing reviews that led me to buy it.  However, it's the kind of movie I think I'll appreciate more on repeat viewings (it is very long, there are many characters to keep track of - often in different costume, making it hard to remember who's who - and many subtleties to pick up on).  It bore resemblance to other movies about musical genius (Amadeus, especially in the opening and conducting scenes; Immortal Beloved and Copying Beethoven - all great movies to emulate, by the way).

The movie felt a bit choppy, and I watched many scenes wondering what they contributed to the story and why they were included.  It's almost as if someone thought "let's include this!  Oh, and let's include that!," but then these disparate vignettes weren't stitched together very well to make them flow better, and the result was an overly long movie that leaves you with many questions.  There seemed to be too much unnecessary detail at times, yet not enough at others.  Basically, the movie could have benefited from better editing, both for length and content.  To give one glaring example, Sullivan was adamant in refusing to write any more music for comic operas and steadfast in his desire to write serious ones.  This stumbling block between the two geniuses was noted over and over.  Yet, Sullivan seems to miraculously come around and embrace The Mikado, giving up on his serious objections to the genre.  By what process did that transformation happen when he was so stubborn earlier?  This is central to the story and yet is not really explained aside from one scene where Sullivan apparently likes the new libretto (but why when it's not much different from the others???).

Having done all that nitpicking, I must say this film has many pluses - not the least of which is the beautifully rendered music, the extended live performance numbers, the great singing (which some have complained about but I found it marvelous and highly recommend the soundtrack), the opulent costumes, magnificent sets and excellent cast.  Visually it reminds me a bit of Moulin Rouge in its overall lushness.  The period setting is also of great interest (has anyone ever explored the pitfalls of the just-invented telephone before, or the marvel of the "reservoir pen" with its own ink?)

Perhaps there is just too much going on in this movie to adequately absorb in one setting.  Therefore, I am watching it again - which, come to think of it, is pretty high praise for any movie.  So ultimately, I must recommend.  Eventually, you'll probably love it.