I felt very skeptical about Susan Tom's ability as a mother and both my husband and I wondered about her motives. Each of those children needed a huge amount of individual care - in that household, nobody could have really gotten what they needed. I felt most sad of all about Margaret. It seemed to us that Susan was using her as an unpaid nanny/nurse/housekeeper and when she tried to express her anger about her own needs being buried, Susan basically shut her up in a very disturbing way. We felt certain that was because Susan didn't want Margaret's perceptive grievances filmed and any real criticisms to come out - it felt very abusive actually. What others said about the reasons to us did not make sense - Susan's reaction had very little to do with protecting Margaret's privacy. Adoption is such an enormous undertaking and requires such sensitivity - children have to feel that they are really loved and understood and have to be allowed to grieve their enormous losses - and that grieving continues throughout their life. You do not adopt in order to use someone to help you get the laundry done or give medicine to other children. Margaret must have felt utterly alone - she seem to be someone brow beaten enough to believe that her own issues were not large enough to justify complaint in comparison with children with physical disabilities. She seemed to be on the cusp of rebelling in the film - helped by a counsellor - yet that was silenced. Yet making sense of what happened to her - the loss of her birth parents (which was never covered), her full time employment caring for the other children, the loss of any connection to her culture - there was no space for any of that for her. How could social services allow Susan to take in all of these children who - each on their own- required so much attention and careful care? We asked that again and again while watching. The chaos and the unexamined anger in several of the children felt very wrong. It may sound cynical, but we both felt that the huge financial benefits (which were played down but which we know are considerable) together with Susan's own need to be needed (itself stemming from her own undemonstrative mother - who magically appeared after six years just as the cameras were rolling) had alot to do with her choice to take in so many children with such severe needs. And Susan clearly had serious body image issues - it came up several times - one wonders, sadly, if her choice of adoptees was linked in some way to this. It is not at all far-fetched to imagine it - people have very disturbing reactions to unhappiness with how they look. As for Joe, he was the other child that we really felt for. He needed a whole raft of care and understanding - he needed a mother and a father (he desperately needed a stable male relationship) all to himself. He had been abandoned so often and there were clearly genetic issues with anger and self control. And on top, his illness. So many issues that needed expert, tender understanding and patience. Existing in the chaos of that family with a mother who could not have had enough time for him and who we believe was (Margaret was right and perceptive) relieved when he died, was simply wrong for him. The whole set up seemed to us like an orphanage or a foster care situation - and it was not what these children needed. It may well have been exactly what Susan Tom needed to make sense of her life and to deal with her own issues. But this film should have been about the children and the filmmakers should have asked harder questions. We would like to know what happened to Margaret - the silenced child.