The idea of Hecklers is awesome... the first 20 minutes is a good look at stand up comics dealing with hecklers, but it stops there and becomes Kennedy going after critics and then a personal movie about critics of his stand-up act (which isn't that good) and his movies, such as "Malibu's Most Wanted" and other "gems" he has done. The movie title is misleading... it's really three movies: a short 20 minute movie about hecklers of stand-up comics, then a 20 minute movie about critics, then a 40 minute movie about Kennedy's critics. This makes the movie inconsistent... let me address the movie after the first 20 minutes since I already addressed the first 20 minutes.

The movie moves from hecklers to critics, asking the question of what gives critics any credibility (meaning they don't act, write movies, produce or direct so what do they really know). When that is done, Kennedy take the movie into a very personal realm. The last 40 minutes is all about Kennedy. Kennedy interviews critics who not only trashed his work, but say things like "Kennedy needs to quit," and Kennedy grilling these critics about personal attacks that have nothing to do with the movie being reviewed. In one scene Kennedy asks a critic who wrote "Kennedy should quit" if he has a right to make a living? This is where the movie goes and this is the reason it fails. So self-serving. Of course Kennedy has a right to make a living, but if a critic tells an artist that he/she should quit that isn't denying the artist the right to continue or to make a living, especially since Kennedy has made a living... a damn good one from what I can tell from the video. This make Kennedy look like a huge doucebag. There are thousands of entertainers trying to "make it" in Hollywood and Kennedy has a lot of balls to suggest that his career has either been damaged, hurt or destroyed by critics when he has been relatively successful... more so than most people trying to get into the entertainment business. For example: there is one scene where Kennedy is in his really nice pool, drinking a 40oz beer, and talking with a friend about how critics trashed his film and how this is going to hurt his career... you say this while you chill out in your pool, at your nice L.A. house, drinking... and I'm suppose to think you are a victim? Kennedy's attempts to make us understand and identify with him fails badly. At the end of the movie, I actually hated Kennedy... and before this movie, I liked Kennedy. Complete backfire. If you like self-indulgent documentaries, this is good. If you want to see someone attempt to get you to see things one way, but fails so badly at it that it gets you to see it the exact opposite way, this is good. If you want to see a movie about hecklers, watch for 20 minutes and turn it off.