"The Majestic" is a piece of cinematic nostalgia that is unfortunately weighed down by a simplistic, heavy-handed moralism. While enjoyable, it lacks the originality and inspiration necessary to make it truly engaging.
Set in the early 1950s, the movie straddles two starkly contrasting worlds: Hollywood, populated by shallow people motivated only by self interest; and small-town America, represented by the fictional California coastal community of Lawson, home to hard-working, dedicated people who will sacrifice all for principle. Casting an ominous shadow across these two divergent landscapes is the dark cloud of anti-Communism, represented by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) and personified by the Committee's Majority Counsel Elvin Clyde (Bob Balaban) -- bespectacled, humorless, single-minded, and stereotypically one dimensional.
The film's protagonist, Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey), is a rising screenplay writer who quietly suffers formulaic rewrites of his scripts by unimaginative studio executives. When scrutiny by HUAC for a youthful indiscretion leaves him black-listed, he flees the shallows of Hollywood in a bout of drunken frustration, seeking solace up the California coast. A car accident along the way strips him of his memory and lands him in the open arms of Lawson, where he is mistaken for Luke Trimble, a war hero missing in battle and presumed dead. The town celebrates his supposed return, reinvigorated with hope after years of loss during World War II. But when Peter's memory eventually returns, he faces not only the town's rejection but also the unrelenting pursuit of Elvin Clyde. Ultimately he must face HUAC, and in response he must choose either the way of Hollywood or the way of Lawson.
The film features a solid cast, including Carrey in another sound, non-comedic performance. Nonetheless, the story requires an ongoing suspension of disbelief in order to succeed. How could so many people who knew Luke intimately -- his father (Martin Landau), his fianc&eacute;e (Laurie Holden), and numerous life-long friends and neighbors -- be willing to embrace a total stranger based on nothing more than a physical resemblance? The weightiness of such a proposition has a natural, downward pull that the film cannot quite overcome.
But this is not the film's greatest weakness: instead, it is when the film attempts to stir deep emotions that it bottoms out in a shallowness that betrays its origins in a Hollywood as banal as the one it critiques:
When Peter reads the last letter home from the real Luke, the words of that doomed soldier to his distant fianc&eacute;e are intended to evoke the sadness of impending loss. But to anyone who has watched the magnificent Ken Burns documentary on the Civil War, the circumstances and sentiments of the letter are immediately recognizable as a thought-for-thought (and in some places, word-for-word) plagiarism of the heart-rending letter penned by Union soldier Sullivan Ballou.
When finally called before a special session of HUAC (inexplicably broadcast live on both television and radio), Peter's speech is clearly meant to produce the patriotic, lump-in-the-throat reaction many have to Jimmy Stewart in "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington". But instead of stirring patriotism, it is filled with simplistic platitudes. Instead of conviction, it sounds contrived. It is small-town America through the distorted lens of Hollywood, and it just doesn't work very well.
Good performances by a high-profile cast and cinematography that paints a pleasant nostalgia make "The Majestic" an enjoyable watch. But its lack of creativity and its clunky attempt to wed small-town patriotism to to left-leaning Hollywood politics result in only a so-so film overall.