It is absolutely shocking to me how many people love `License to Kill'. This is undoubtedly the WORST James Bond movie of all time excluding the dreadful `Never Say Never Again'. `License to Kill' crosses the line from gritty to ugly and mean spirited. I realize that in the Bond books Felix Leiter does get half eaten by a shark but the movie Bond and the book Bond simply are not the same characters and do not live in the same universe. `Casino Royale' was gritty but this film is brutal to the point that I wanted to take a shower afterwards.

The strange thing is that I enjoyed all the other Bond films by director John Glen who amazingly considers this one his best. In the end `License to Kill' was a box office failure for good reasons. It diverged too far from the formula and was poorly executed. I love Bond films but this is the one I recommend people avoid.

Here is my take on the bad, the good and the ugly

The Bad....

Rather than being timeless as any good Bond movie should be License screams 80's. There is a bar scene that looks like it was torn straight from Roadhouse and the plot seemed like a rip off of the 1986 film Raw Deal which also featured Robert Davi.

This is the second time Bond has fought a drug dealer and no matter how big time they may be they're still just drug dealers.

Pam Bouvier is one of those spunky, plucky 80's women who get tiresome REAL fast. She's also not particularly attractive for a Bond girl.

The movie is ponderous and repetitive and the editing is weird. Sanchez escapes the DEA and INSTANTLY manages to find Felix Leiter on his honeymoon. In one scene Bond is in the hands of some Chinese drug agents when one of Sanchez tanks blows a hole in the wall of the building. The audio cuts for a second and the scene transfers so abruptly that it comes off like a cheap editing job. The film just has the appearance of something done with half an effort.

For some reason they toss in a couple of stinger missiles in order to extend the plot beyond mere drug dealing but Sanchez ends up wasting them both trying to hit Bonds slow moving semi (he misses) and Pam's two-seater plane (he nicks it).

Somehow Bond is able to burn down Sanchez's entire secret base with a small beaker of gasoline despite the fact that guards were instantly on the fire with extinguishers.

License has some of the worst dialogue in the Bond series.

Even the theme song by Gladys Knight stunk.

The Good....

Robert Davi is a great villain. Still, he is just a drug dealer.

The locations in South America are actually quite nice to look at and the quality of the film improves in the second half from the dismal first.

Benicio Del Toro is a good bit of casting although his character is little more than a thug

The climactic scene with the Kenworth trucks is overrated but still fairly well done. It only stands out in comparison to the rest of the film.

The Ugly....

License to Kill is the meanest, ugliest Bond film ever. We get to witness a woman being beaten, Felix Leiters' wife being murdered on her wedding night, Felix Leiter being half eaten by a shark and a man exploding in a pressure chamber. As if that weren't enough Bonds OTHER associate is also killed and MI6 agents inexplicably try to kill Bond when he resigns.