Actor's actor Christopher Lambert (Lam-BERR) returns to the screen, reprising his role as Connor MacLeod in this glorious sequel to 1986's abysmal failure, Highlander. This film exceeds its predecessor in every conceivable way and I, personally, don't believe a better movie to have been made since.
 Highlander 2 does so much to fill in the plotholes found within the original film, primarily with regards to Immortals. For example, the theatrical release of the film tells the audience early on of a revolution on Planet Zeist, a distant desert world peopled entirely by immortals. Said rebels are banished to Earth by the wicked (in every sense) General Katana, where they are forced to fight each other to the death with swords until only one remains. Finally, a plausible explanation! Who could ask for more?
 Apparently the director could, because he re-cut and re-released the film as the "Renegade Version," thus doing the impossible: making the movie EVEN BETTER! Say `so long' to Planet Zeist (though I was sad to see it go), because Immortals are really from "A Very Long Time Ago!" The war took place on Earth, and all the immortals involved were banished to The Future! One film; two genius storylines.
 But it's not just in the past that the film excels - much of it takes place in the future. The year is 2024, and the planet has spent the past 25 years under a giant orange and red (and beautifully CG'ed) shield, erected by none other than Connor MacLeod to defend against the effects of the failing o-zone layer. This can't help but remind viewers of Orwell's 1984: a very likely vision of the future with too liberal of a timeline. The film is truly visionary in this regard.
 Don't think that the film's critical acclaim and widespread fanbase exist solely because of the plot, however; the actors may have a hand in that as well. Like I've stated, Christopher Lambert (recently seen in the outstanding futuristic adaptation of Beowulf) returns as cinematic icon Connor MacLeod, where he gives the performance of his career, especially as an aged Connor at the film's start, where he gets to ride a hoverboard. Lambert doesn't carry the entire weight of this movie on his shoulders, however. He is rejoined by Juan Sanchez Vila Lobos Ramirez, once again played by Sean Connery. Ramirez' entrance into the film is nothing short of a marvel of both writing and effects, and Connery's portrayal of Ramirez as a "fish out of water," a man outside of his own time, was remarkably believable. Even the sub-mediocre Michael Ironside managed an excellent performance as the sickeningly great General Katana. When you kill an entire train full of people by doing nothing more than driving it really fast, acting skills don't matter.
  To say that this film is a masterpiece would be an understatement. It truly deserves a place among Hollywood's Finest. If it's true that "there can be only one," Highlander 2. is it. Come to think of it, only one thing could have possibly made it better: Mario Van Peebles.