As much as I loved the original movie, this version is by far superior. I'm just amazed that it wasn't released this way originally. I find it hard to believe that Francis Ford Coppola would allow a movie studio to force him to cut out scenes to make the movie shorter which is what I understood happened. I don't blame Rob Lowe and the movie fans for being unhappy about the original scenes being cut out. The movie makes a lot more sense with the deleted scenes put back in. The music is also better.

I also really enjoyed hearing the commentaries from the actors. I was disappointed that Emilio Estevez and Tom Cruise (for whatever reasons) did not participate in the commentaries. I loved all the bonus features. It was cool to see the young actors, including the ones who didn't make it into the film, audition. I only wish all the actors had been together to do the commentary, as Rob Lowe and Matt Dillon are recorded separately.

This new version is amazing and should be re-released in the theatres. I did notice, though, that there were a couple of scenes that were added in that were not even in the book. That's the only flaw I guess I would point out is that Coppola should have stuck to the book instead of adding scenes such as the courtroom scene which is dragged out into more of a trial as if Ponyboy was on trial for murder. In the book it seemed to me that the courtroom scene was really just to decide if Ponyboy should be able to continue to live with his older brothers. Also the scene near the end where Cherry snubs Ponyboy at school totally contradicted what I thought they had overcome through the whole ordeal. And it wasn't even in the book.

All in all, this is definitely worth having. I just wanted to see more of the actors' auditions and learn who all did try out. They mentioned some such as Dennis Quaid, Mickey Rourke and Val Kilmer but I wanted to know EVERYONE who was there auditioning! Still, this is a great dvd with great bonus stuff and a must-have for any fan of The Outsiders...