Okay.  Most of us know the deal already with Paramount.  They've released the cheap, featureless DVD editions of the Trek movies in reverse order, and now, starting with ST:TMP, they're going forward again with special editions.  Meaning it was quite a wait for a set like this to come out.  Was it worth the wait?
Without a question.
When I say the film is a vast improvement, I meant that in more than one way.  First of all, this is one of the best DVD sets I've ever seen.  I won't bother listing the features: Check the Amazon.com technical specs for those.  This truly is the first Star Trek DVD truly worth owning.  But they are not the reason why you should give serious consideration to this movie.
The film.  The glorious piece of film that is ST:TMP-The Director's Edition.  I know... if you've seen the film, you must be scratching your head at that comment.  But as Robert Wise explains in the featurettes, they simply did not have the time to put together the film that they wanted to back in 1979.  This DVD is the glorious vision that ST:TMP was meant to be.  Robert Wise has somehow created a much tighter cut of the film without shortening it.  The movie is fast-paced (compared to the previous cuts, anyway), has astounding special effects (even where they haven't been re-enhanced), and showcases the relationships between the three main characters, as well as newbies Decker and Ilia.  Scenes that were once long and boring (to be frank) now offer you more varied perspectives.  It is now much more clear what is going on in many of the shots.  And again, the character relationships that make the movie special have now come to the forefront.  This really is the original Star Trek on the big screen -- oddly enough, a claim which may only be true of this film and Star Trek V (quality of the films notwithstanding).
This is a film that was once a cure to insomnia.  The Director's Edition repairs that.  It is still not an action-packed film like Trek II/III/VI, nor should it be.  However, it has become far easier to follow and much more interesting to watch.  The old film I might have rated two or three stars.  As for the new film, I wholeheartedly rate it five stars, even excluding the other DVD extras.  The differences won't be enough to change everyone's mind, but it did change this film for me and for many others I know.
The SFX Updates: If you have seen the Star Wars Special Editions, you likely both love and fear such updates.  I'm glad to say that the updates are used to amazing effect to accomplish scenes that they simply did not have the time or money to do in 1979, all held together by the promise that they will not do any effect that was not possible in 1979 (although they may use more advanced means of actually ACCOMPLISHING the effects).  Spock walks up to Kohlinar and sees 100-foot statues of Vulcan warriors -- a shot previously seen only in the Marvel Comics adaption.  The awful matte painting is removed (and, with it, the debate over whether or not Vulcan has a moon).  We fly past the Golden Gate bridge in San Francisco, and see a busy spaceport (featuring one of the original Enterprise's shuttles).  V'Ger extends out hexagonal footbridges to the Enterprise as crew members stand on the hull -- another shot that could not be properly realized in the original edition.  Once again, the horrible Enterprise matte painting is removed from that scene, replaced by a to-scale digital simulation.  And, no, they didn't digitally insert Cap'n Archer's Enterprise in the "ships named Enterprise" scene. ;)
For absolute purists, many of the original scenes still exist on disk two, where a total of 16 deleted scenes from the 1979 and 1983 editions make their residence.  But almost any fan will appreciate the work of love that is Robert Wise's definitive Star Trek: The Motion Picture.  It is a true experience to behold.