For 14 months in 1963-65, the United States had no Vice President.  Some members of Congress, chief among them Sen. Birch Bayh, believed that this situation (which had occurred several times earlier in our history) was intolerable considering the necessity of a clear chain of command in the nuclear age.  Their ideas were eventually codified as the 25th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, providing (among other things) a procedure for filling a vacancy in the office of Vice President.  The process was utilized only twice, both times in the first 10 years after its ratification.
The Contender tells the story of the fictional "next time" that the office of Veep needs to be filled.  We never see the Vice President.  Jeff Bridges plays the President, Sam Elliott (without mustache!!) plays the Chief of Staff, Joan Allen and William Petersen play competing suitors for the nomination, Gary Oldman plays a major leader of the opposition party, and Mariel Hemingway plays a witness before a Congressional committee.  
I listed those names for a reason:  These are skilled, seasoned performers.  Acting, to all of them, is really a craft.  It is a pleasure to watch them work.  Some of them (Allen, Oldman) inhabit their characters so completely that they may be giving their best performances in any film; Hemingway is good for perhaps the first time.  They have some great, highly theatrical scenes here:  the Oval Office meetings, the official and unofficial working meals, the time-limited appointments in Members' offices, the high-level discussions in cars, helicopters, and private homes.
The problem with the film is that the director/writer is NOT a skilled and seasoned craftsperson.  He draws the battle lines well and portrays powerful people (accurately) as unwilling to yield strategic points even to presumed allies.  He writes a couple of great characters (notably, to me, Allen's character's combination of feminism, femininity, sensuality, carnality, brains, purpose, and guts; and Bridges's character, who has to be seen to be believed).  But the other reviewers are correct that many, many of the lines at key intervals simply do not work.  They are also correct that the viewer is clobbered on the cranium with the specifics of policy positions which advance the plot little.  (In the context of this plot, for example, who cares about gun control?)  Of course, the plot hinges on the details and he-said/she-said/another-she-said recollections of an alleged college orgy, not exactly standard fare for a Constitutional conspiracy movie.  There are also glaring errors, as mentioned by other reviewers (to which I add these:  the movie has characters refer to "advice and consent", even though these words are not used in the Constitution with respect to the filling of the office of Vice President; also, good luck trying to figure out what time of year the action is taking place).  Furthermore, there is an utterly incomprehensible character played inexplicably badly by Christian Slater.
However, the movie does have THOSE PERFORMANCES and THOSE SCENES that bring the audience into the very midst of human struggles.  It gives us characters facing situations, small and large, which they have never faced before, have probably never envisioned facing, and don't exactly know how to deal with.  I don't always think the writer chooses credible ways for them to resolve their conflicts, but I sure as hell want to see films that illustrate the tension of such adverse circumstances where even your friends might be your enemies -- to the point that even a nominee's father's support for that nominee cannot be taken for granted.
Two final comments:  I adored the performance of the Columbo-style FBI agent assigned to do a background check on a deceased woman.  Another reviewer has criticized the film for not placing an older agent in the position; to me, the strategic gamesmanship of the characters makes it totally believable that they would assign the investigation to someone who is so young-looking that they wouldn't inspire suspicion.  I presumed the actress, Kathryn Morris, must have been an established star doing a cameo (which it isn't); that's how good I thought she was in a role that was not necessarily as subtle on paper before she took it on.  Finally, other reviewers have suggested other (better) films to rent; to their lists I must add a true five-star movie that is ACTUALLY about a congressional battle over a presidential nominee -- Advise and Consent, starring Henry Fonda (as the nominee).  If you want political drama without the overt sex and street language, rent that one instead of this one.  If you can stand it, see them both.