This is a light-hearted special effects filled movie for the entire family.  The premise is fairly simple:

An ancient artifact within the museum has caused everything in the museum to come to life at night for the past fifty years.  If anything gets out, and is out come sunrise it will turn to dust.  Ben Stiller is the new night watchman that must try to keep things under control while the exhibits go wild, and some ne'er do wells (shame on those of you that have given away the identity of the crooks in your reviews) that want to steal the artifact.

This is a fun movie that the entire family can enjoy.  The only real objectionable part that comes to mind is that the monkey urinates on Stiller at one point.  I personally don't find that kind of humor appealing, but it was the only instance of that type of humor, so I let it go.

If you are bothered by unresolved plot threads or plot holes, then you may want to pass on this.  There were a few things that kind of make you scratch your head as to the believability of what is happening.  I understand that this is a movie about museum exhibits coming to life, but the best movies of this genre will help you suspend your disbelief and accept what is happening.  This one tends to get you to the point of supending that disbelief, and then do something so cheesy as to make you groan.  There were instances where things seemed to happen because the writers had written themselves into a corner, and needed an easy way out.

The most glaring flaw in the movie to me was towards the end.  Stiller's character has finally come to grips with his new job, and the "badguys" show up to steal the artifact.  Thay are all apprehended one at a time, but the viewer never sees any resolution to what happens to them. There is no mention of a call to the police, and we never see them carted off by the police. As a matter of fact Stiller is nearly fired due to the condition of the museum rather than hailed as a hero by his boss (who should be grateful that Stiller saved the day).  It was almost as if the theft part of the script were shot after the movie wrapped as an effort to throw in a little more action, but they forgot to include the resolution of that major thread in the movie.

All in all I enjoyed the movie as a mindless effects filled romp that I could comfortably watch with my 5 year old daughter.  It is a fun movie, but I recommend you watch without a critical mindset.