After Connery left in You Only Live Twice and Lazenby's On Her Majesty's Secret Service comes Connery back again in Diamonds are Forever. Though it can't match up to the film it kind of copied which is Goldfinger, it is  still very good and as some great elements. Connery isn't looking his best  but is older, wiser, and does a great job. Jill St. John is good as Tiffany  Case but is stupid and a wimp at the oil platform. Lana Wood is great as  Plenty o'Toole and I wished she could have been in the film longer. Charles  Gray is excellent as Blofeld and is one of the best villains but WHY does  he have hair!  Glover and Smith are hilarious as Wint and Kidd, the two gay  assasins, and are even wittier than OO7 himself. However, the other members  of the supporting cast such as Jimmy Dean's annoying Willard Whyte and  Norman Burton's forgettable Felix Leiter are not very good. 
The Las  Vegas setting is fitting and the plot was confusing but good once you found  out what it was. Goldfinger had clarity, which is something Diamonds  lacked. The action was a chase through the desert where Bond is pursued by  Blofeld's men in a moon buggy, a car chase through Las Vegas and the climax  which is somewhat disappointing where helicopters attack an oil platform.  
Diamonds had excellent sound quality and earned a nomination at the 1971  Academy Awards for Best Sound along with films such as The French  Connection and Fiddler on the Roof, which won. This was something no other  OO7 film had or has accomplished. Goldfinger did win in '64 for Sound  Effects. This film loses some credibility because it seemes to bog down at  the end unlike other Connery films. The title song is good, and John  Barry's score is not as good as OHMSS's but holds its own.
Diamonds is  good and is like Dr.No in a way because though Diamonds is witty and Dr.No  is serious they both have excellent villains (Gray), (Wiseman), good Bond  girls (St.John), (Andress), and little action but great storylines and the  way the films go on. However, Dr.No is better and though Diamonds may be  one of Connery's worst it is better than most of Moore's films and is very  good.