Darling Lili is written, produced and directed by Blake Edwards (of  Pink Panther fame).  It's quite clear that he did it only so that Julie Andrews could star in it.

Set in World War I (despite the many anachronisms, including a striptease act), the protagonist is a Mata Hari character whose speciality is seducing Allied generals to extract information for the Germans.  The plot starts to fall apart immediately, as Julie Andrews is far too sweet to be a convincing seductress.  She's still playing the Mary Poppins-Maria von Trapp character that established her popularity.  We are asked to suspend disbelief to accept that this ing&eacute;nue is a master spy.  Assigned to entrap Rock Hudson in her snare, she predictably falls in love with him.  This doesn't stop her passing on the nuggets of information that he blurts out in the heat of passion to her controller, ably played by Jeremy Kemp.

The film suffers because Edwards' characterisations are wooden and totally unconvincing.  He is trying to make the audience sympathise with a woman who is betraying her country (she left Germany when she was young and her mother was English) and an idiot of an airman who can't keep his mouth shut about operations.  At the end of this pathetic film, the audience of veterans (who presumably suffered hell and lost comrades due to her treachery) roundly cheer her, Rock Hudson takes her into his arms and his squadron mates (the primary victims of her espionage) stand around beaming and clapping.  It doesn't help that in the midst of everything, the director thought it would be a good idea to introduce some Pink Pantherish slapstick in the form of two bumbling French military intelligence agents (who actually were in the Pink Panther films) and a cartoon British pilot who would be more at home in Those Magnificent Men and Their Flying Machines.  The climactic theft of von Richthofen's Fokker triplane is an adventure worthy of Snoopy.

Since this purports to be a musical, Ms Andrews sings some pleasant songs, including "Whistling in the Dark".  The music is competent but unmemorable, not ranking among the best work of the team of Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer.

In short, this is a bad film with a unconvincing plot and average music.  The only reason to buy it is if you are a fan of Julie Andrews.  That was why is spent money to get it.  Even then, I was disappointed.  It is, at best, a filler for a collection of Julie Andrews films.