The cinematography and musical score are amazing. Morgan Freeman does a commendable job narrating this film.  It is a very detailed documentary showing the incredible hardships that Emperor Penguins have to go through in order to mate, produce eggs, and raise their young.  It documents the penguins' 70+ mile journey on land, in -50 to -90 temperatures,  to the breeding grounds, their finding of mates, incubation of eggs, and the several journeys, back and forth, from the ocean to the mating grounds and vice versa of alternating parents taking turns, in order that the young would be fed, presumably with regurgitated stuff.

The conditions that they endure boggle the mind and are a great testimony to persistence and resilency.  I feel that I did learn something from this, and appreciate the lack of global-warming political propaganda.  They did a commendable job portraying the penguins' struggle for survival.  Although I'm not usually into "animal films," this one held my interest and that of my two daughters, aged 9 and 7.  The mating scenes are not explicit at all.  That being said, this is not a happy, uplifting film......it shows the harsh realities of nature, and adult penguins, baby penguins, and eggs that touch the ice too long are shown freezing to death or being eaten by predators.  For most of it, I found it quite depressing, seeing a death of one of the above every 15 minutes or so.  Of course we know that nature is a harsh place, and intellectually we know that just the right number of penguins survive(if too many, the food supply would be inadequate, etc.), and I thought that it wasn't really necessary to show baby birds freezing to death or being attacked by an albatross. Being told this by the narrator would have been adequate.  My youngest daughter, who is quite sensitive, was very upset about the freezing egg sequences, which at first she thought were hatching, and I had to talk to her for quite awhile about it.  Amazing, very realistic film, but not for young kids.