Rocky is a brilliant, wonderful and inspiring film.  I have never written a film review on Amazon before, but I just had to write one in this case.  As a young woman, I didn't think I was going to like Rocky.  As a general rule I hate boxing and turn away from violence on TV.  Yet Rocky was nothing like I thought it would be; it was no brutish, gratuitous celebration of violence but a tender, passionate, exciting tribute to following your dreams and your heart.

Everyone knows the outline of the plot by now.  Suffice to say that Rocky is a down-on-his luck fighter living in a squalid flat and feeling as if his life is wasted.  By pure luck he gets the chance to fight for the most coveted price in the boxing world.  He knows he can't win against his opponent, but he does know that if he digs deep and `goes the distance' in the fight then he will redeem himself once and for all.

The characters in this movie are fantastic.  It would have been easy for the character of Rocky to have be written as a cocky idiot, the kind of boxer who is all swagger and arrogance - and yet Rocky is nothing like this.  He talks aloud to his pets and is infatuated with a shy pet shop sales assistant (instead of the flashy, smart-talking blond that normally plays the love interest in this type of film).  Rocky doesn't even have the necessary cruelty in him to break a man's finger in his job as a debt-collector.  He does the most romantic things - such as shouting out `hi' to his girlfriend, Adrian, when he is interviewed on the news and shouting out her name repeatedly at the end of the fight scene.

Adrian could have been pigeonholed as the `girlfriend' with nothing more to do than slap Rocky on the back and cheer from the sidelines and yet her character brings so much more to the film.  As she and Rocky fall in love the movie blossoms into one of the most romantic I have ever seen.  In the scene at the ice rink and then when they are walking home you realise that they are absolutely perfect for one another (one has the body, the other the mind).  Afterwards, in Rocky's flat, the scene when they kiss is simply beautiful.

Overall the film Rocky has everything.  It has edge-of-the-seat fight scenes, romance and passion, truly deep characters and an ending so touching you want to step into the film and become part of it.  I would recommend this film to everyone, especially women who thought in the past that it would be too violent or too unemotional for them.  Go and watch this!

JoAnne