How little sense this movie made the first time I saw it: those goofy costumes, that strange plot! But for all the weirdness I could never forget it, it remained in a corner of my head. And then, the second time I had the  occasion to see Zardoz, everything fell into place: like HG WEll's Time  machine, Zardoz was a sci-fi interpretation of Friedrich Nietzsche's  philosophy. 
THe plot in a few words: mankind is doomed because it is  crumbling under the burden of its own historical consciousness (remember  the ruined library in the beginning?), most of the men have been wiped out  by a world war-type catastrophe, their descendants have fallen back into  animality, struggling to survive in brutish conditions and revering the  Titan-like Zardoz. Meanwhile, literally preserved in a bubble are a happy  few last men, a bunch of superior spirits who have discovered the secret of  immortality, or so they believe, but the secret is quite awful: immortality  is sterility. Of course the immortals are playing a losing hand (Nietzsche  didn't like the Last Men, the ones who come after history's pendulum  movement has spent itself and come to a standstill). Apparently happy,  apparently dominating, the dwindling bunch of immortals feel like prisoners  in their pastoral bubble, and the only way out for them is the sweet  oblivion of senility. Now just a stylistic comment: the immortals are  dressed in 70s futuristic gear, the senile old farts don Edwardian formal  dress: the movie was not about some hypothetic future situation, it was  about the here and now of 1970s Britain; senile establishment, futile youth  with the illusion they will be forever young, and the starving third world  knocking at the gates of the bubble. 
In Also sprachte Zarathustra,  Nietzsche tells us the saviour is an Ubermensch, a "superman" who  will shake off the sterility of the last men to push them back into the  meaningful and necessary movement of history, launching a new cycle where  others pretended there was only a single line, from beginning to end, with  progress in between (Hegelian/Christian view of History/Divine Providence).  Incidentally, a new cycle means both shedding (the illusion of) immortality  and recovering the capacity to (pro-)create. Hence the final scene of the  movie. It's interesting to see how, while the catastrophist vision of the  future has receded since the 1970s, the obsession of Western societies with  the illusion of eternal youth has only grown stronger... 
I can't think  of another movie so ladden with deep and cryptic philosophical metaphors,  even more stunning as it is quite entertaining without possessing an MA in  phil.