I went into this movie with high expectations, and to say the least I was very disappointed. I had to ask myself if this was just a bad comedy or a bad drama because there are so many elements intertwined that I couldn't tell the differece.(A quick example would be the whole tuba thing. I thought that was pretty funny, but no one else in the theatre was laughing when she first started playing it. She also played it during very somber times in the movies. If they were trying to be serious, they failed.)

I don't even know where to begin(which is a main reason I disliked this movie). There is just so much stuff going on, that the movie completely loses sight of the main love story. The director gets so caught up in his cute tricks, and cgi splattered intestines, that he doesn't invest enough time with the characters we should care about.

There are so many names and faces you have to keep track of in order to get any satisfaction out of the detective part of the story. When the "AH HA" part of the movie came, I was too confused to care. The detective story is just plain nuts. I mean give me a break. Murder By Death has more plausible story line than this movie.

The whole story is like a ADD wonderland. A clip here, another clip there. Wouldn't you think that the two lovers' relationship(prior to the war) would be important? There must not be more than 10 minutes of footage dedicated to their life before the war. The longest pre-war conversation they have consists the boy making fun of the girl when they are 9 or 10. How are we supposed to know these people and why should we care about them?

There are some parts that are quite touching, when they actually let the people talk, and I thought acting was generally good, considering the directing. I think there should have been a much more somber attitude to the entire movie because the fun ends every time the trench warfare is shown. At the end of things, I saw this movie as nothing more than a slightly-above-average-Hollywood-special effects-fluff fest...