Yes, I already reviewed this in January when I saw it on the big screen.  This movie was so big and so powerful, I had to see it again, this time on DVD in my own home.  It was still just as powerful, just as moving, and just as amazing the second time as the first.  I was able to marvel all over again at the depth and talent of Charlize Theron, from the way she swaggered, to the way she held her cigarette, to the way she spoke and used her eyes.  Here is an acting job so complete that to watch the movie FOR the acting is difficult.  It means you have to remove yourself from the character and the story.
When I saw this movie in the theatre I can remember that for the first time in many years, I did not look at my watch, I didn't talk to my friend, I didn't eat my popcorn. I'm not sure I even blinked. I was completely involved.  Same deal at home.  What was different for me the second time was that it allowed me to really appreciate the performance by Christina Ricci.  I was so blown away by Charlize Theron the first time I couldn't appreciate what Christina did with her character.  I had different feelings about her character, Selby Wall, the second time too.  I thought she was a sociopath the first time, a manipulative and scary young girl.  The second time, I thought she was just a scared young girl who wanted someone to take care of her, and who really didn't realize the impact of what her lover Lee was getting her into.  Which one was correct?  Who knows? Maybe both.  To me, the Selby character is pretty far removed from Tyria Moore (from what I know of the real life story), but the film does imply very clearly that Selby knew exactly what Lee was doing the whole time (Aileen Wuornos insisted to the end that Tyria did not know-something I always found hard to believe).
If you want to experience something truly wonderful; if you are sick of bad, superficial, waste-your- money movies, I urge you to see this one.  You will not be disappointed. And for goodness sake, it's not the makeup that makes this a great performance, as a few critics have alluded to.  Get real.  It's the acting.  Actually, "acting" seems to me to be too superficial a word for what this was. Charlize Theron nailed this to the point where it may be the best performance this girl has ever seen! I'm sure I'll be watching it again.
Just a word about the DVD- The sound was not that great.  Whenever music was playing and they were speaking at the same time, you could not hear what the characters were saying (maybe it was my player).  Also, the DVD said there was extra stuff included, like an interview with Patty Jenkins and BT.  That wasn't there either.