Imagine it, you come home from a buisness trip early, you find your girlfriend at home in bed watching some hard core amateur porn.  It's ok if she's into that, but when the naked people emerge from the bathroom, and the guy shows up at the door asking if the....  Well you get the idea.

So begins Old School, a story about men who have accepted societies entrapment of being an adult means that you cannot have any more fun, but they're going to fight it every step fo the way.

You have Mitch Martin (Luke Wilson) as a Lawyer who gets punched in the gut by finding out his girlfriend isn't all she appears to be, Bernard 'Beanie' Campbell (Vince Vaughn) owner of Speaker City, the guy who's worth "Three and a half Million dollars that the government knows about", and Frank Ricard (Will Ferrell) who in years the past was Frank the Tank, gives that up to be married and decides marriage may not be the best thing for him.

So after his break up from his girl friend Heidi (Juliette Lewis) Mitch finds a new place not far from Harrison University.

Beanie throws a "small get together" which means a majority of the campus shows up and there is a cameo by Snoop Dogg playing himself.  During this time Frank reverts back to Frank the Tank drinking from multiple beer bongs ("It tastes so good when it hits your lips").

So when Dean Gordon 'Cheese' Pritchard (Jeremy Piven) shows up the next day to inform Mitch he has 30 days to vacate as the house has been rezoned to the Campus the idea for a Fraternity is born.

The recruits are the typical Frat rejects as well as some non college guys just looking to spice up their lives.

There's lots of sexual innuendo, and lots of drinking, etc etc.  If you enjoyed animal house you're probably going to like this.  Also a cameo by Andy Dick (as Garry) and Leah Remini (King of Queens) as Beanie's wife.

It's just a funny movie, and then the extras, you have the Inside the Actors Studio Spoof, the missing/deleted scenes, the commentary.  If you've seen the movie a million times the Commentary will give further insight into this fascinating cinematic event.