Disclaimer: I watched this film as a streaming rental.  As such, I can't comment on the package featured on this product page, nor on the two short films included as they did not accompany the rental.  My review is concerned with the entertainment value of the film 'Steamboat Bill, Jr.' only.

Along with Chaplin, Buster Keaton is one of the silent era comedians I've heard most of, yet until now I'd never seen any of his films.  James Agee, in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0399508708">Agee on Film</a>, made such a strong case for him in a reprinted article concerning the silent era that I figured there had to be more to Keaton than the tepid synopses of his films that I'd read.  Perhaps it's unfair to expect anyone to capture the essence of Keaton's comedy in a few words or a single paragraph, but frankly, these short descriptions made the films sound tiresome and uninspiring.  'Steamboat Bill' is anything but.

To begin with, the actual events onscreen aren't the source of the comedy at all - it's in what Keaton does with them.  Where in a film description about a gnarled steamboat captain meeting his college-educated, dandified son for the first time is there room to explain that a father and son hat-buying scene is just one of the many priceless moments in the picture?  Or that two minutes watching Keaton trying to calm a baby, unaware that his gruff, grizzled father is looking on can be full of more character development than many movies cram into two hours?  While most summaries of the film rightfully focus on the tornado fueled finale, that scene of the film - while wildly entertaining - depends less on Keaton's ability to show nuance and more on technical feats.  Thus there are elements of it that have been copied and adapted for other comedians over the years.  What really sets the film apart is Keaton's ability to transmit complex emotions with subtle gestures and deadpan delivery that is impossible to imitate.  Other actors *might* be able to replicate some of his broader sight gags - but I doubt anyone could portray the disheartening, deflating range of feeling simply in getting his mustache removed at a barber shop.  In other words, there is no substitute for Keaton himself.

I don't think I can recommend this film highly enough to those who enjoy physical comedy.  I don't think I can recommend it enough for people who think they *don't* like physical comedy - if, after watching 'Steamboat Bill', they still don't, then I doubt anything will change their mind.  But even beyond the physical elements, viewers who assume older films will appear unoriginal and plain compared to the enhancements and embellishments added over the years to the medium in general may find themselves surprised at how unique and fresh Buster Keaton remains.  Watching Keaton now, it strikes me that the addition of sound to motion pictures created an entirely alternate art form, one whose very palatte changed the nature of comedy.  In that case, it's easy to think of 'Steamboat Bill, jr.' as one of the last works of the old masters.

This VHS copy probably matches up well with the streaming rental I watched, but there is a new <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003H221MS">blu-ray edition</a> that I'm saving my pennies for.  As an introduction, I can appreciate this version, but it's only whetted my appetite for more.