This is one of the best exercise-type of DVDs I have ever purchased.  In fact, this is the only one that I continue using on a regular basis-- it's THAT good!  I've been using it for almost a year.

It's wonderful to have two main workout sessions to choose from:  Water or Fire.  Each one lasts approximately 40min. and there is some meditation at the end, which is lovely.  While my inclination is towards the Water workout, by mixing it up with sometimes Water and sometimes Fire, I don't get bored.

The things that make this workout so great:

1.  Having a male and female presence.  This not only makes it more interesting to watch, but also shows that it's okay if the poses vary slightly.  Also, it just feels more balanced.

2.  The pace.  It flows just right; it's calming, yet energizing, and it goes by quickly.  I'm often surprised that i've reached the end.

3.  The mirror-image.  If the instruction is to put left foot forward, it's the mirror-image onscreen.  I love not having to think about which arm/leg to move.  As Cohen says, "We spend so much time in our heads, it's time to focus on our bodies and breath."  (That is a paraphrase of the quote.)

4.  The scenery.  It's awe-inspiring.  (Look up the Alabama Hills in California where it was filmed to get an idea.)

5.  The music.  It's so good, I rarely notice it.  In fact, I can't even tell you what it sounds like off the top of my head.  It just fits.

6.  The transitions.  Between each exercise, the screen shows a faded out image of something--flowers, water, etc. with the title of the exercise.  There is also a sound such as wind, or water flowing, with the transition.  It's beautiful, calming, and prepares me for what's next.  These transitions work really well and is just one of the many things that work together to make this a great DVD.

7.  The ability to turn off the instruction and just have music play.  Personally, I like the instruction and haven't felt the need to turn it off, but it's nice to have that option.

8.  The extras.  There is the option to watch an Introduction about Qi Gong, or a free-from demonstration (of Cohen) which is beautiful to watch, or do some Mudras.  I really enjoy doing the mudras even though sometimes it's hard to follow.

9.  With consistent practice (3-5 times a week) I find that I am feeling the energy more and more.

One thing that could be better:

Sometimes critical parts of the instruction come at the end of the pose.  All this means is that it will take a few times doing the workout before you are doing all the poses correctly.

I love this DVD and would recommend it to anyone who has an interest in Qi Gong.  It's very well done, and very effective.  It's also easy to watch again and again without getting bored or annoyed-- a feat for any DVD of this type!