Hi, In this review I'm not going to be reviewing the film Creepshow itself because I'm biased, it's my favorite horror film of all time! I'm instead going to be going over the 2009 Blu-Ray release of Creepshow and how it really measures up!! In my opinion I was really, really disappointed with the 2009 Creepshow Blu-Ray and I think it is one of if not the worst old horror film to Blu-Ray conversions that I have ever seen!!!  And here's why -

First - lets look at the Blu-Ray packaging/case itself. The cover of the Blu-Ray case has the same image as the front of Warner Home Video's 1999 bare-bones DVD snapecase release of Creepshow. Then you'll notice that the image on the Blu-Ray disc itself is just a closeup of the same image that's on the front of the Blu-Ray case!!! The overall packaging and design of the Blu-Ray sucks, it's basically the same as the 1999 snapcase!!!

Secondly - lets look at the picture quality of the Creepshow Blu-Ray. The picture quality according to the information on the back of the Blu-Ray case says it's supposed to be 1080p High Definition 16x9 1.85:1. That's crap!!! I played the the Creepshow Blu-Ray on my PC(HD ViewSonic Monitor) and the 1999 Creepshow snapcase DVD on my Samsung HD flat screen TV at the same time. I put the computer monitor and TV side by side and watched them both to compare picture quality/see any differences. The 2009 Blu-Ray and the 1999 DVD are virtually the same, it's like they just ripped the film from the Warner's 1999 Creepshow snapecse DVD and burned that DVD image file straight to a Blu-Ray disc!!!

Thirdly - let's take a look at the special features on the 2009 Creepshow Blu-Ray. I really could not believe that there was only one special feature on this Creepshow Blu-Ray disc!! That single special feature is just an original theatrical trailer from 1982. It's also the same trailer from the 1999 snapecase DVD. Also the picture quality of the trailer according to the info on the back of the Blu-Ray case is just 480i or 480p standard definition. Really, they give you only one frickin special feature a trailer and could not even convert the trailer to high definition!!! I also watched the trailers from the Blu-Ray and snapecase DVD side by side and they are both the same trailer with the same low definition quality!!!

What's really pissing me off about the Creepshow Blu-Ray is this. In 2007 the company called Universal Pictures UK released a Creepshow (2 Disc Special Edition)DVD which was mind-blowingly amazing!!! That DVD set has the following special features - making-of documentary running 90 minutes (titled Just Desserts: The Making of Creepshow), behind-the-scenes footage, rare deleted scenes, galleries, a commentary track with director George A. Romero and make-up effects artist Tom Savini, just to name a few.  Unfortunately this amazing Creepshow 2 Disc Special Edition DVD set was only released in the UK and UK only, and is PAL/Region 2 DVD format!! How Can this amazing Creepshow 2 disc DVD set be only available in the UK and not the U.S., I mean it's a cult classic American horror film!! Also how can a U.S. released Blu-Ray of an American film be worse than a UK non-high definition DVD.

In conclusion - The 2009 Blu-Ray release of Creepshow from Warner Home Video sucks, on a scale from 0-10 it gets a 1. If you already have he 1999 snapecase DVD of Creepshow stay with that, don't get the Blu-Ray because they are the exact same. DONT GET THE CREEPSHOW BLU-RAY!!!! By the way I recommend ordering if you can the Creepshow (2 Disc Special Edition)DVD from the UK.  It cost me about 13.08Pounds that's $21.00 US dollars, Get that 2 disc UK set if you can, it's amazing!!!!!!!!