"Magic mirror on the wall, who is the fairest one of all?" this has perhaps become the most famous question ever asked in a fairy tale. And in 1937, this was the question with which started this exalted masterpiece; a magical motion picture that bewitched millions of spectators worldwide and started a new trend of entertainment.

When Walt first began his ambitious project with a loan of 1.5 million dollars from the Bank of America, critics termed it as 'professional suicide'. Disney studios were well renowned for giving to the world the first cartoon in full color and also the first cartoon with sound (Steamboat Willy). Most critics predicted that Snow White would be a box-office failure. They argued that cartoons were only meant to last ten minutes, filling the gaps in the programme rather than becoming the main attraction. They branded Disney's ambition ludicrous and foolish. But their predictions were proved wrong. At its premiere on 21st December 1937 at the Carthay Circle Theatre in Los Angeles, the celebrity-packed audience applauded all the finest sequences. Snow White instantly became a worldwide hit of magnetic proportions, starting a saga of magic which soon grasped the whole world; launching a series of Snow White dolls, figurines, books and vinyl records.

 Walt's achievement was recognized by Hollywood in 1939, when Shirley Temple presented him with a special Oscar. It was unique, consisting of eight figures - one large Oscar and seven miniature ones. Since then, Snow White has become a cherished classic loved by people of all ages.

 The animation, though traditional, is matchless in its grandeur. And considering that in those ages, every single cel had to be hand-painted; one can say that Snow White is nothing short of visually spectacular. Entailing the tiring labor of some 750 artists who painted over a million cels; (only 2,50,000 were used in the finished film) this classic came to life. The music composed by Frank Churchill, Leigh Harline and Paul Smith is richly melodious and vibrant; the score and the songs really beautiful. From the dwarfs' 'Heigh-Ho' to Snow White's 'Whistle While You Work' and 'With A Smile And A Song' to the prince's 'One Song'; each tune has its own splendor. 'Someday My Prince Will Come' is soothingly melodious, and has indeed become a timeless classic (though I don't quite like the Barbra Streisand rendition of it).

 The characters are astoundingly brought to life by brilliant vocal performances. Walt had himself chosen Adriana Caselotti as the voice of Snow White, and her classical numbers are exceptional. Lucille Laverne is the perfect choice for the voice of the queen and witch. Broadway star Harry Stockwell provides a wonderful voice for Prince Charming; and Pinto Colvig and Roy Atwell portray Grumpy and Doc very well.

 An eternal masterpiece, Snow white has something for everyone. It transports us to a realm of innocence and wonder; and we lose ourselves in this enchanted world. It is a conglomeration of fun, beauty, warmth and romance that really touches the very bottom of your heart.

The 2-Disc platinum edition DVD is one of a kind, offering a breath-taking anamorphic full-screen transfer of this magical fairy tale, accompanied by an equally awesome Dolby 5.1 surround sound (the DVD also provides Dolby 5.1 French and Spanish language tracks). The bonus features are numerous (Disc Two having a total running time of 190 minutes); offering and in-depth look at the movie itself and how it was made. There are vast virtual galleries, early presentation reels, vintage audio publicity, a very nice set-top game and guided tours by Roy Disney and Angela Lansbury. The abandoned concepts and deleted scenes are a special joy to watch and the celebrity-hosted feature 'Snow White Through The Decades' is very informative and entertaining. I had to import the DVD from US and must say that it was worth every bit of my money. However, Disney studios have discontinued the title from the 31st of January, 2003, and the ones on Amazon.com have also gone out-of-stock. So if you don't yet have a copy of this classic, go get it now. I love this timeless masterpiece and will prize it always.