Being a big fan of the original Cruel Intentions, I was quite curious when I'd heard there would be a prequel. I'd heard it was to explore Kathryn and Sebastian's early relationship, and was very much intrigued. I didn't think it was going to be quite as good as the first, but I thought it ought to be worth two hours time at any rate. In short, my time would have been better spent hitting myself repeatedly in the head with a brick. The original is an extremely well-written, beautifully acted adaptation of the classic novel and movie(s) "Dangerous Liasons"(If you haven't seen the film starring John Malkovich and Glenn Close, I highly reccomend it...and for those of you who like that sort of thing, Keanu Reeves is in it, too.). I've seen it several times, and have enjoyed it more with subsequent viewings. Its prequel is everything the original is not. Apart from being improperly titled (a prequel should not contain a "part 2"...Since it is supposed to occur before the first part) It is poorly acted and horribly written, playing on some of the more clever lines from the original and butchering them to fit some pointless re-hash (pre-hash?). The actor playing Sebastian Valmont, while not nearly as good as Ryan Phillippe, may have some potential, if he can get over his James Van Der Beek phase, but other than that, the movie is absolutely devoid of talent. The only amusing character in the film is it's equivalent of Cecile Caldwell, an amazingly vapid young woman named Sherrie, though she has none of the innocent charm of Selma Blair (the actress who played Cecile in the original). In fact, the amusement comes only from watching her bumble her way across the screen. The biggest shock came when the credits rolled, as I learned the writer/director of this absolute travesty of a film was Roger Kumble, the same man who did just a wonderful job on the original. It just goes to show what people will do for the right amount of money. Do yourself a favor, if you enjoyed the original, buy Cruel Intentions 2 if only to set it on fire. That's what I'm planning on doing.