Ran, by Akira Kurosawa, is indeed a masterwork but I feel some scenes were overly dramatized and therefore am not a huge fan of the direction on this film.  In this film, an elderly Samurai lord, Hidetora Ichimonji, passes the lordship to his three sons asking only in return that he be welcomed in their castles and allowed to live out the rest of his days.  His three sons, Jiro, Taro, and Saburo have differences in opinion.  Mainly Saburo thinks that Hidetora's decision is partly due to him becoming senile and therefore doesn't agree.  As a result Saburo is banished and the two other brothers unite to conquer and attempt to kill Hidetora by cornering him into a tower in hopes that he will commit seppuku or ritualistic suicide.  However, Hidetora escapes and later joins back up with Saburo, who forgives him.  In an epic battle, Saburo joins forces with another ally to defeat the united forces of Jiro and Taro.

While very lengthy with what I felt as sometimes too much of a focus on drama, this film is very authentic in that it presents the true nature of the samurai in feudal japan.  This film is so full of subtleties about the samurai culture that are neglected in other samurai films.  In comparison to movies like The Last Samurai or others, this film is as authentic as it gets.  From shaved eyebrows and elaborate male hairdoes to kimono attire, this film captures it all and isn't lacking when it comes to maintaining accuracy in depicting the samurai world.  I really found it interesting and unique how the director used the different colors to denote which army was which.  Also the irony in a samurai lord who is forced to seek help from a boy who he had ordered to be blined with a hot iron cannot be ignored neither can the comparision when Hidetora and the jester are roaming aimlessly, without hope or home, in the ash fields to being lost and alone in damnation.  In sum, while I found Ran to be very intersting and useful in depicting the actual culture and way of life of the Tokugawa era samurai (the samurai in this film were using rifles which were adapted and traded from the dutch and other western merchants during the last last days of the Tokugawa rulers), I felt that quite often scenes were drawn out sometimes repeated when not necessary to the plot.  This is a very intersting move, but I feel that sometimes a drama/epic movie can risk being flawed by over dramatizing certain parts that don't necessarily need it, drawing out scenes that could take seconds to get the point across into several minutes.

  If you prefer drama combined with epic or are really looking to take a glimpse into the life of samurai in the last days of feudal Japan, then this is the film for you.