BRINGING UP BABY is one of the most legendary comedies in motion picture history and this beautifully packaged edition is a must for anyone who enjoys the film.  First let me comment on the earlier reviewer who claims the picture quality is underwhelming.  That is sadly true on DINNER AT EIGHT and AFTER THE THIN MAN among other old movies issued by Warner Bros. but the print of BRINGING UP BABY is near flawless, you rarely seen movies from the 30's virtually scratch-free like this!! Perhaps that reviewer has the earlier edition and I've seen a newer release (I'm reviewing the slipcover version)  but the picture quality here is fantastic and I am very hard to please.

This delightful 102 minute movie (a good 20 minutes longer than many comedies from the era) flies by in this wacky tale of a giddy young socialite who makes a professor's life a nightmare for 24 hours.  Katharine Hepburn is so delightful as the dizzy heiress and she really deserves praise for keeping the pace of her performance at the same frantic level throughout the movie and not slipping.  Cary Grant so effectively captures the nerdy essence of the professor it's almost as big a surprise to us as it is for Hepburn's Susan that he is quite the hearthrob once the glasses come off.  The supporting cast is wonderful too, most notably that grande dame of characters, May Robson, as Susan's pompous aunt and Charlie Ruggles as her easily confused friend.  Fritz Field is also memorable as the pyscharist whose path keeps crossing Susan's.

This DVD is a special two disc set which in addition to featuring trailers to several Howard Hawks films, it includes a vintage television documentary on the great director.  And then there's an extraordinary documentary on Cary Grant "A Class Apart" featuring some fantastic vintage candid film footage and interviews with two of Grant's wives (Betsy Drake might make you drop your drink with her blunt response to gay rumors about Grant!!)  If that's not enough there are two wonderful bonuses to make this seem like a night at the movies in 1938 - a hilarious Warners Technicolor cartoon A STAR IS HATCHED which features a hen heroine in this spoof of "star-struck girl goes to Hollywood" tales which features wonderful cartoon characters of everyone from John Barrymore to Mae West (our poultry princess even imitates Hepburn, rah-lee she does!!) and a very rare Technicolor musical short CAMPUS CINDERELLA from that year starring the delightful Penny Singleton only months away from stardom as "Blondie" (she's a brunette here) and keep your eyes open for Susan Hayward in a bit in a blue swimsuit.

This is a near perfect packaging of a classic film.  Let's hope future gems from the golden era will packaged with such loving care.