The Euro-horror films of the 70's fell into two distinct categories: those that were campy and scary and those that were just campy. Carlos Aured's Horror Rises From the Tomb falls squarely into the latter grouping, but like the finest of its kind this Tomb was wisely filled with plenty of cheap scares, bloody thrills, and gratuitous nudity.

A narrator tells us of the powerful warlock Alaric du Marnac (Paul Naschy )and his faithful mistress Mabille Du Lancre (Helga Line) and we witness their gruesome deaths in 15th century France. Before they are executed the demonic duo places a curse on the land and vow to return and wreak vengeance on the descendants of their persecutors. Present day appears and four rich socialites decide to use a medium to attempt to resurrect the evil sorcerer just for fun. Hugo (again Paul Naschy) and Maurice (Victor Barrera) are skeptical of the superstitions surrounding du Marnac's burial grounds but their wide-eyed girlfriends find plenty to fear. Intent on exposing their supposedly silly assumptions, Hugo insists the four take a trip up to the monastery where the dreaded warlock supposedly met his demise. Once there the group realizes too late the power of Alaric's wizardry and the reincarnated sorcerer will finally have his revenge.

The similarities between Alaric du Marnac and Dracula are shockingly abundant and appear only slightly altered to mask the obviously stolen traits. Both dress in gothic black garb complete with flowing capes. Both can control their victims with hypnotic powers to carry out their bidding, and both lust after blood (one prefers still-beating hearts to flowing veins however). If that wasn't evidence enough of du Marnac's borrowed legacy, the wicked wizard is also affected by a cross of sorts (here a necklace adorned with crossed hammers) and his mistress can be destroyed by a silver stake (with the bizarre requirements that the wielder be a girl with a pure soul).

While the story itself may be lacking in the originality department it really only serves as a catalyst for bouts of bloodletting and nudity. Far too often unnaturally fortunate coincidences arise and significant discoveries are made with too little effort. Little to no explanation is given for events and the characters' reactions to such ludicrous happenings, but ultimately realism is not a priority in such films. Gore is, and there are several notably unique scenes of carnage, and while they aren't as graphic as much of the imagery created today, they remain effective.

Combining a ridiculous mix of superstitions and mythology with primarily stereotypical scares, Aured still manages to overcome the low budget with a decent body count and a view of a few decent bodies. Vampires, zombies, sorcerers, pure souls, silver needles, ritualistic heart-ripping, good transitions, bad camera tricks, and a couple beheadings all make an appearance in Horror Rises From the Tomb, while reality keeps its distance. Hugo sums up the film best in a frantic warning, "Anything can happen in this madness!"

- Joel Massie