Well I just finished the movie 2 minutes ago and I just got a feeling of disappointment. Yes I will still see Part 2 but only because I'm interested in how they will pull that off as well.

The biggest flaw this movie has is this. Remember in the Batman: Year One animation where they had Gordon and Bruce narrating almost everything in the movie? How you could still feel like you were reading the comic only it had voices and motion? Don't expect that from this movie. They completely took out all narration whatsoever which was the best part of TDKR. There is no "This would be a good death... but not good enough", no "I'll feel better in the morning. At least I'll feel it less." and no "The rain on my chest is a baptism. I'm born again". Every bit of dialogue that gave you depth for the character and the troubles he has to face are completely stripped out.

Now the voice acting was actually well (Aside from Jim Gordon having a high pitch clown voice but that's my opinion) but the delivery of some lines feel rushed and not as powerful as you thought they were in your head. This is because they hired voice actors who never really got into the comic industry and didn't really feel for the character as much as someone like Kevin Conroy or Michael Ironside would. They also skipped a lot of scenes and replaced some with ones that would work better for the animation which I don't mind since they weren't very important ones.

The animation is solid and well done. It really compliments the character design Frank Miller had created and worked very well with a lot of the fight scenes. They also got the mutants spot on both on the animation and the flawless dialogue.

Basically to sum up the movie, it showed a plot but it didn't tell a story. If you were hoping to see your characters express themselves better in animation with voices and movements that could tell the story in a way that feels real then sorry this movie isn't for you. It's just Batman talking to Gordon and beating up The Mutant Gang. Nothing more, nothing less.