If you are a fan of indulgent European cinema- or just films that work more through tense ambiguity and insinuation, rather than propulsive dialogue and action- then you will love this. If you loved 'Chocolat,' 'The Hairdresser's Husband,' or any of the red white & blue trilogy, you will dig this movie.

Part Love-Triangle/dissatisfied & yearning woman- part Holocaust survivor story, part overcoming the everyday staleness of life/investing it with meaning. The film tries to stand on three legs and is overbearing/ awkwardly balanced. Precarious. At least to me. I still recommend it over any of the crite love-films/romantic comedies taped up and airbombed on the american public, weekly. yes it was better than Raising Helen, but not better than Raising Arizona.

I wanted to love it, and it has a great deal going for it, mainly the main character's face (more on that below) but ultimately I left the theatre last night, more than a little dissatisfied. The film tries to accomplish too much (the holocaust survivor tangent that doesn't really get anywhere- it simply serves to heighten Giovanna's sense of personal crisis- needing to act upon her dreams and not let them dwindle), and much of the action is just a bit unelievable (when Giovanna and Lorenzo finally embark upon their...). My suspension of disbelief was pulled taut- almost to breaking.

Too much insinuation, too long, the ending was too neat (I would have ended it at the conclusion of the 'running down the stairs sequence').

However, The characters are grounded authentically. The opening scene with Giovanna and Fillipo- her being a tad bitchy and him being a big-hearted bear, it set them up well. The neighbor, Ermine, was a nice touch. The dilemma that Gio faces at work was a nice tactic to expose her timidity which she begins to work through.

I will say this: Giovanna Mezzogiorno gives a superb performance, working well with what the script gives her. Also- DAMN. What a face. Her countenance more than made the film worthwhile and enjoyable, and (since this is European film) the filmgoer is treated to myriad shots of her, looking out the window, staring into space, pensively daydreaming... The camera works lingers on her eyes, lips and brow, never tiring... She has a magnificently expressive visage- the kind of face that probably won't turn heads on the street, at a glance- but lures you in, more and more. I can't say enough about her.

Nice film score, I'll be considering picking up the soundtrack once it's dropped a few bucks and isn't special order any more. The musical theme reminds one of the Kronos Quartet's strings n' beats from ',Requiem for a Dream,' though less scarred by loss and anguish, more wishful and understated. It worked well.

All in all, I probably won't see it again, but I'd recommend it to my artier friends.