THE KILLER INSIDE ME was a surprising movie for me because I didn't expect much from it. I hadn't looked at too many reviews of it and it sort of slipt under the radar. I've never really thought Jessica Alba was all that good of an actress, just a pretty face and after the last few films that Casey Affleck had done, I expected this movie would get more notoriety. But it didn't.

Well, Jessica Alba was pretty good in this. Although I believe she still has a ways to go before I would call her a good actress, this was a step in the right direction doing something so intense and outside of her comfort zone.

The movie was surprisingly engrossing and intense. I was involved in the film and enjoyed the chess match going on between the FBI and the murderer. Although some of the things the murderer did were so blatantly reckless, I would point them out and think, why aren't the FBI catching on to this. If the girl was beaten so badly that her face was caved in, then how did she shoot the guy in the head? Then the murderer slipt on his kitchen floor and had to chase one of his victims down the streets of town.

I started to think that either he was the worst murderer in the history of crime or the FBI were the worst agents in the history of crime fighting until I got to the end of the film. This had to be, hands down, one of the worst finale's to a movie that I have ever seen. All of the unreal and blatantly ridiculous things that happened throughout the film, were no coincidence, because the ending was just the same. A ridiculous fire and a police officer who fires a shot THROUGH an innocent woman's back and why would they let her approach him anyway, knowing what he is.

A strange movie that was at times engrossing and captivating and at the same time, irresponsibly handled by a team of filmmakers who didn't realize how ridiculous what they were doing would look to the audience.

I give it 3 stars for the fact that the movie was mostly interesting, but was tempted to drop it to 2 stars, just for the ending that left me so unfulfilled and disappointed I was literally angry for wasting my time watching it.