Despite the fact that this is supposed to be a remake, it almost isn't. I mean, the basics are here: creepy hitchhiker, young Samaritan, etc. But this version of the movie is nowhere near as subtle as it probably should be.

There are some significant changes - the eponymous hitcher is now terrorizing a young woman along with the young man. There is a lot more blood and gore (which really is just a sign of the times, as far as I'm concerned). And sadly enough, there almost seems to be less purpose. As if we are simply supposed to take at face value the fact that there is this crazy man and he's terrorizing these kids and blahblahblah.

One big problem I have is that the hitcher - "John Ryder" (LOTR trilogy's Sean Bean) - is about two steps away from being a freakin' supervillain. There is a body count of at least 20 or so people here....all tagged by Ryder, seemingly without much in the way of effort. He does away with these folks like he's simply swatting flies or kicking puppies. And the reasoning? Who knows? There isn't enough given in the manner of reasoning.

The kids aren't bad. Of course they do tons of stuff that the standard person outside of a horror movie would NEVER do, but that's par for the course. By the way, how come no one ever takes a quick, hassle-free plane ride anymore? They all wanna drive across the most remote regions of the country.

My other major problem is that the most memorable  (at least to me) moment of the original film is recreated here...and then some. It's one thing to include the most notable scene in the movie...but couldn't we have had a bit more in the way of subtlety? Yeah, I know we all like things to be amazingly realistic and gruesome nowadays, but I really think the moment could have benefited from a touch more discretion. The way it was done, I kind of just sat there and though "Oh wow. Look at that."

There were good things about the movie. I really liked the lighting. I'm not sure if Sean Bean is a cinematographer's wet dream or if the lighting just happened to look especially good around him, but the highway scene in the Trans Am looked awesome, as did the end of the movie (also on the highway).

There were also some really badass cars in this movie. That 442 was gorgeous. The stunts were also well done.

Overall, not a bad movie at all, but it's really best that you try not to think of the original when you sit down with this one.