this review is in response to:
UTTER NONSENSE, April 8, 2004
Reviewer: A viewer from poplarville, ms United States  
"This movie is confusing, unbelievable and trite."
yes, the movie is confusing...but confusing in the "fight club" way...in "the matrix" way...in "the sixth sense" way...even in the "alice in wonderland" way. it's the kind of movie that's confusing until the end, but then makes perfect sense if you've been paying attention...the kind of movie that has to be watched at least twice - the first time you watch it, you watch it to understand the movie and get the premise and the second time you watch it, you watch it with your new knowledge (new knowledge such as who tyler durden really is, what the matrix is, what the sixth sense is, why alice saw the things that she did) to pick up on the details we couldn't see before. 
"The first 100 minutes of the film you can skip. It transpires that all the mayhem, and blood-letting, unconvincing, at the hotel really didnt happen!"
after finding out that all these "strangers" are just different personalities of the psychotic killer, "all the mayhem and blood-letting" takes on a whole new meaning. we see how every "murder" gets rid of one of his personalities. we understand why it's so important to kill the killer - if the killer wins, that personality will dominate malcolm rivers and he will remain a murderer. 
"It was all imagined by this chap about to be executed for multiple murders."
"imagine" is such a bad word to use for what goes through malcolm rivers' head -he has several different personalities and they are forced to "meet" each other (in his mind) when his psychiatrist gives him a certain treatment. 
"He convinces those taking him o the xecution area, as well as the legal and psychiatric authorities, that he is no longer a danger since now he oly imagines bad things."
this is incorrect - they don't consider him a danger anymore because they believed that the killer personality was killed by another personality, edward. 
"Maybe he didnt take his medication that day, but on the way to the prison for the criminally insane he murders everyone in the car, and shortly thereafterwards sends one of his manifest identities, a young boy, to strangle an attractive girl her Florida garden. Apparently, the screenweriter was not satisfied with imaginary characters buried in the synopses of the psychotic killer, but with a Stephen King-like enthusiasm, made it possible for the killer to created these personalities in flesh and blood. I don't think this is clininically possible, and I have poured over the DSM -I-IV, of the AMA.If there were such an entity, it would certainly be a challenge to treat."
this is the biggest mistake in this review - the young boy and former escort don't come to life in "flesh and blood"...all this happens in the killer's mind - another twist to the ending. everyone thought that the child timothy died in the car explosion and that the former escort was the only survivor, but this is not the case. as we watch the woman in her orange grove in florida (in malcolm rivers mind), it seems as though everything is fine now, but timothy comes back and reveals himself as the true killer. he kills the woman and now he is the only personality inside of malcolm's head. because of that internal battle, malcolm reverts back to killer mode and murders his psychiatrist and the driver. 
"Since all that happened at the hotel was imaginary, I don't feel that I should have to describe that action."
why not? the hotel was the battlefield in his mind. we see the personalities struggling to survive and this is one of the most heart wrenching parts to watch. the viewer doesn't want the different personalities to die (well...some of them) because we've gotten to know them...BUT we want malcolm to mentally triumph and become just one person, so we're torn. 
"I will say this, altough I'm sure such a nuance point was not in the mind of the director or screenwriter, he lack of plot, craziness, inconsistencies, symbol objects such as a key,the curious amount of rain in Nevada, killings, does point to the imaginary ramblings of psychotic killer."
of course it was in their mind. that was the whole point - all of those little things tells you something is not quite right with the scenario. everyone's birthday is on may 10th, everyone's last name is a state name...the viewer is thrown off and believes that some preternatural powers, possibly from the indian burial ground, brought all those ppl together for some purpose. when we find out that those ppl are actually the same person, the viewer has the epiphany, "ahhh...now it all makes sense."
with all that said, i highly recommend the movie. it takes you inside the mind of a schizophrenic killer in the most interesting way...while it doesn't excuse his actions, it evokes feelings of sympathy and pity from the viewer because we see that this man wasn't truly a bad man (we see this especially with the personality edward)...his schizophrenia was caused by something out of his control. while the movie wasn't hugely successful (i think, in part, because it was marketed wrong), it's meant to be a cult classic like fight club or the professional.