After having watched a good number of these Frank Peretti type Christian "horror" flicks (Thr3e, Hangmans Curse, The Visitation, Last Sin Eater, Exorcism of Emily Rose, etc.) over the years in an attempt to find a Christian movie that is scary and/or good enough to keep the attention of todays Christian youth for a Fall Harvest party, I've come to the conclusion that none of these movies measure up.

Maybe these types of movies would have been scary in the 50's, but since most of us have already been desensitized as a result of being exposed to movies that almost make us have to change our pants after watching them, and because Christians are fairly limited in what they can show as far as gore and really frightening scenes, these types of movies tend to collapse on themselves and leave us saying "what's the point" after it's over.  The only choice left for a movie in this vain to be successful is that it must have some good "jump" scenes sprinkled throughout and at the very least a good story line.  Unfortunately, this movie has neither, which consequently causes it to be as one reviewer put it "mildy entertaining."

I've received positive feedback from kids about the movies "Invisible Enemies Among Us" and "Hangman's Curse", but even those movies can't really be called scary.  This movie wasn't even close to being scary, and the storyline was so convoluted and just plain dumb, I had a hard time making it all the way to the end.  There's not even much here that you can use to have a discussion about afterwards.  I mean let's be serious.  A guy standing outside the door with a gun in his hand is just not that scary to me.  Now if he was really ugly like Freddy, or indestructable like Jason, maybe it would be a different story.  But towards the end I was like why don't you just shoot the guy and get the movie over with?

At least the movie starts making a little bit of sense towards the end, but unfortunately it still gives the wrong impression that there are second chances after death.  And although they did mention the light, the movie made no attempt to identify who that light is.  By doing these things, to me the movie becomes pointless as a Christian movie because it has no redemptive value.  Overall I'd say that this movie wasn't terrible, but it wasn't that good either.