The remake of The Last House on the Left does not deliver. Whatever promise any of you who have not seen it yet believe it holds, I suggest you stay away now. This film is horrible. One thing that irks me to no end is the IMDb rating. How the hell is this rated higher than the original? While the original is by no means a great film, it is still a horror classic.

I wonder what anyone could see in this.

The original was a remake of Ingmar Bergman's The Virgin Spring, and explored the concept of revenge: a young girl is murdered and when the murderers stop by the parents' home to spend the night not knowing that they've killed their daughter, the parents take action and dispatch those who killed their child.

Sounds brutal, doesn't it? The main difference is that the original tackled the topic almost perfectly. This one just goes way off the mark. While the original was a masterpiece in exploitation (and had excellent performances by the actors who played the criminals and sported some nasty rape and torture sequences that served to make Wes Craven a household name), the remake is just a trashy wannabe of a film that does not even graze the achievements of its predecessor. I'd say one should stick to the Bergman and the Craven editions overall. There was a light rehash on this material named Chaos, but that one was a failure on all levels.

This one is just sad.

A waste of talent on all levels (not even Monica Potter and Tony Goldwyn, whom I both like could save it) and there's something more disturbing about the annoying Sara Paxton playing their daughter (who survives, unfortunately--unnecessary change) that is more disturbing than the actual rape and torture sequences, which I found laughable.

I find it funny how anyone could label this "anti-human," as some reviewers of the film did.

It's not. It's just a pathetic attempt at money. The blood and guts aren't even enough to satisfy gorehounds, and whatever great things anyone has heard of the ending, discredit them.

It gets you down.

I thank myself I saw this for free. No way would I have given this my money.