Bill Condon did an Excellent Job with Breaking Dawn Part 1 by staying close to the book. The wedding scene was beautifully done. I Love Bella's wedding dress very much. The Reception Ceremony was extremely funny with Charlie & Emmett. I truly didn't care about Jessica and her jealousy act. Plus Rene's singing did not catch my attention. I Loved the way Jacob interacted with Bella at her reception until he got angry and almost ruined Bella & Edward's moment due his childish temper even though he was truly looking after Bella's well being. However she is married now and you can't interfere with her decisions. The Honeymoon was Perfect! Now I have to clarify due to critics not having the facts straight. Edward & Bella consumed their marriage twice not once like some people speculated. Their first night Edward felt terrible for the after bruises Bella had from being intimate and made sure to keep Bella busy by the time is was bed time by doing regular site seeing activities. Until Bella finally woke up from a dream of desperation to mate with her husband once again. This is when Edward & Bella conceived. The fact is Edward & Bella slept together twice. Plus also please note Edward is 109 years old not 104. Please read the books before the facts are written. Also, Bella's pregnancy and make-up effects were Spectacular. I was feeling so bad for Bella the way she looked and what the baby was doing to her. The birth scene was extremely scary to watch as a Mother myself knowing this would truly be a lifetime experience to forget having a c-section this way. Plus the imprinting was perfectly explained. However people always love to judge. Please note Jacob is a Protector, Brother and Guardian for the moment until Renesmee turns 16. Then she makes the decision if they stay together more than friends. This is Tribal legend. Plus please note when the wolf pack were speaking in Jacob's mind is through their thoughts. Yes, I know this is a fictional story but please note wolves in real life do communicate mentally they don't speak or turn into humans. So please critics let's just enjoy the movie. This was Perfectly done just like our book was written. I can't wait now to see Breaking Dawn Part 2 on November 16, 2012.
There were parts that were edited from the books, and scenes that were shorten to give an accurate explanation. However, I know Summit will make sure these deleted or extended scenes are added in the movie. Plus the mature DVD I know they would release for the adult audience to watch as a Director's Cut.