This anime can be slow and confusing at times but overall it becomes good. As i watched it there were times in which i was losing interest in it but it always managed to hook me again. That reason for these moments of boredom is because of how the show is structured. It is done in separate arcs or mini stories in which we see the same events unfold in different ways. In each arc the story is restarted and goes from the characters having fun and develops from there until it ends in tragedy. After watching each arc i found myself more confused and intrigued. The first arcs are known as question arcs and there are later arcs that are called answer arcs although they dont always answer questions but instead offer similar circumstances to a previous question arc but with some differences and a different resolution. I think that in this set only the last two are considered answer arcs. i would have to check to be sure. After watching this series you might feel confused and disappointed because you never find out what exactly is occuring even at the end. This is because there is a second season of the series called Higurashi no Naku Koro ni kai which continues the story with more answer arcs. As of right know i dont think it has been released in the US but hopefully it will be because it completes the series and explains the reason why everything happened. So in conclusion when they cry is a good anime that I found to be interesting most of the time. Some people might not like the art style or how the story arcs are structured so it isnt an anime for everyone. But for me its only flaw was that it didnt have the complete story. But that's resolved by watching the second season. So if you dont mind an anime with little or no action that is slow to progress and provide answers and will leave you with more questions and confusion than answers at the end of it you'll probably enjoy this anime and will eagerly await the second part.
I apologize if this review is poorly structured and kind of random. It is the 1st i've ever written and i hope it isn't too confusing and that it is helpful to those thinking about buying when they cry.