I have been a big fan of the horror genre for nearly a decade. When I heard about this DVD, I was thrilled to hear that some company would be putting out a compilation of great horror moments. Unfortunately, this DVD, while well-meaning, is a weak. "Boogeymen" features essential horror icons like Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees, and Michael Myers doing what they're expected to do (kill people). Aside from the canon, the makers of the DVD decided to include the ridiculous bottom feeders at the butt of horror nerd in-jokes like the husky-voiced cousin of Jambi from "The Wishmaster," the adorable midget from "The Leprechaun," and the Gordon's fisherman from "I Know What You Did Last Summer." Add in some obscure indie horror clip ("The Ugly," which does look interesting) and some straight-to-video shocks ("The Dentist") and one is led to ask if this truly is a collection of "the greatest hits of horror" it so prominently touts on the back in all caps. Where "Boogeymen" fails is in its lack of quality film clips. With only a single brief scene for each of the 17 frightmeisters crammed into just under an hour the discriminating horror buff is definitely not getting enough blood for his buck. With the storage capacity of a DVD, is it too much to ask for multiple clips for each character? The clips themselves range from being great (the first slashing from "A Nightmare on Elm Street" and the last scene in "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre") to being just plain goofy (The Leprechaun's laugh-inspiring pogostick murder comes instantly to mind). Still, the extra features do add some life to this bloated corpse of a DVD. Along with optional in-feature trivia and DVD-ROM extras, the shining gem of the special features is Robert Englund's colorful audio commentary. With corny jokes and interesting annecdotes, Englund makes even the worst parts of the main feature seem watchable. You don't, however, judge a DVD solely on its special features. Apparently the first volume in a possible series of DVDs, perhaps the makers of this edition can learn from their mistakes when crafting their next killer compilation, "Boogeymen Vol. 2: Electric Boogaloo." Until then, rent the originals.