The Rescuers is the first Disney film I watched in theaters, also the first film I watched in theaters with my children when it was re-released back in the 80's.  For these and for other reasons, The Rescuers remains my fondest Disney memory, it is one of the most kid-friendly, charming masterpieces the studio has ever created and everyone in my family loves it.

You can't help falling in love with the sweet, soft tale of a little orphaned girl, being kidnapped by a pair of ruthless treasure seekers.  Penny lives in the gloomy and dark Morningside Orphanage, with the company of the faithful cat Rufus (Who was probably my favorite character, his little rhyme about Faith being a blue bird was just soo sweet!) who keeps in Penny alive the hope that someday a pair of nice people will come and take her away into a happy life.

Unfortunately, before this happens, the wicked Madame Medusa and her henchman Mr. Snoops will take the girl away into a dangerous mission in a lost bayou, into a dark and scary cavern where she must search for the dreadful Devil's Eye, the world's largest diamond.  Of course, not all is lost for little Penny, her plea for help inside a bottle reaches the shores of New York City and eventually the Rescue Aid Society, an organization (run by mice!) which's purpose is to help those in need, soon, the Chairman of the RAS, announces the mission, sending Miss Bianca along with Mr. Bernard to take on the dangerous journey.  The two mice travel through air, waters and land in order to reach Penny and bring her safely home, meeting cute characters along the way, Orville the albatross, Evinrude the dragonfly (A great little character!), Ellie Mae and Luke the muskrats among others.

Animation is a bit off in some places, mainly due to the fact that the prints released throughout the years were of poor quality, a good cleaning would really help.  Still the animation is lively and realistic, the film features great fun moments like a personal favorite when Medusa's two pet crocodiles, Brutus and Nero are trying to capture the mice who've hidden themselves inside an organ.  The songs, ah the songs!  All are soo beautiful, I could never understand why a soundtrack to this was never released...  "The Journey," "Rescue Aid Society," "Tomorrow is Another Day," "Someone's Waiting for You," "For Penny's a Jolly Good Fellow" but my favorite is "Faith is a Blue Bird" even if it really is only a little poem, I thought it was very sweet.  (Highly recommended)

"Faith is a blue bird,

We see from afar,

It's for real,

And as sure as the first evening star.

You can't touch it,

Or buy it or wrap it up tight,

But it's there just the same,

Making things turn out right.

You can't touch it,

Or buy it or wrap it up tight,

But it's there just the same,

Making things turn out right."