Fans of your typical stalk-and-slash movies will probably be satisfied by this remake. There is a lot of gore and most of the violence (meathooks piercing a back, arms and legs severed by a chainsaw, etc.) is onscreen and very graphic. Leatherface is frightening in a Jason Vorhees, silent automaton kind of way. The characters are perfunctory and the acting is mediocre, but that's not much different than the original. The effects are good, and the movie is well shot with some haunting scenes of the farmhouse and cumulous clouds rolling across a Texas sky. If you're a big horror fan (I am) there are worse ways to kill a couple hours. It's better than most modern horror films.

The reason I'm giving this two stars is that this remake doesn't seem to understand what made the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre so frightening. Tobe Hooper's 1974 classic had a stark, grainy documentary style, a shrieking soundtrack and an overall sense of decay and dread that's completely lacking in the remake. The fact that it's such an ugly movie makes it more plausible and disturbing. One of the things I love about the film is that so much of it is shot in daytime. You can almost imagine hundreds of cars over the years driving by this farmhouse, set back from the road in Texas, and never imagining that the family inside is descended into cannibalism and complete madness.

The remake doesn't get any of this. Instead, they go the MTV-ized route and basically co-opt Leatherface as a horror Icon like Jason, Michael, etc. Just another masked killer to carve up hot co-eds with power tools and kitchen appliances. The remake also doesn't even allude to cannibalism... I thought that's what the story was about?

Hey, it's not awful. I'd rather watch the TCM update than most other teen gore movies out there. It's just disappointing to see a director take a horror classic, completely carve out it's soul, and rely on slick production and graphic violence where grainy film stock and creepy suggestion worked so much better 30 years ago.