Like everyone else who liked Saw, I was looking forward to the sequel continuing on the legacy of clever traps, tension and gore that made the first in the series so enjoyable. Instead, it looks like the script writer bit off more than he could chew and the overall feel of the movie became contrived and, at times, laughable.

The whole movie would have benefitted from a reduction of about half of the cast. It was obvious they were intended to be nothing more than bait, but there were way too many times I would watch a character blithely wander along into a trap when just one second of thought would have been enough to figure out how to avoid it. Clearly, the writer was more concerned about showing off props instead of making sure that the characters were at least slightly believable. Luckily enough the traps were interesting and I could still find something to make me keep going to the end.

The plot ending was similarly weak. I had it figured out halfway through the movie when only a few characters didn't seem to be feeling the effects of the gas (not to mention that a serial killer who was presumably pushing around safes and hauling heavy equipment could barely hold up an empty plastic cup). The ending was neither scary nor interesting, just a cheap and very corporate segue to the next movie in the series. If Saw II flowed more naturally, or had at least some attempt at characterization, maybe the whole thing could have been more natural and rewarding.

It wasn't all bad here. Donnie's performance as a cop was shallow but honestly given. I was looking for a little more detective work, but I had no other real complaints considering the movie genre. Jigsaw was fine as a cinematic serial killer, and at least his philosophy never really changed.

As mentioned before the traps and the sets were cool and salvaged what was left of the tense atmosphere. The first Saw broke up the trap sections by using the Pig's head character for some old-fashioned suspense. Adding scenes like these to Saw II to vary things a little would have taken some of the burden off of the traps, making them more of a great addition to the movie instead of its only saving grace.

Maybe I was watching this with expectations too high? I don't think so, the movie just never delivered. Here's hoping for a better outing in Saw III.