I have been a bit concerned recently about the lack of RRDMs (Really Really Dumb Movies). I love RRDMs - some of them offer so much fun it is a crime to miss. Well, I finally hit a jackpot with "Transporter." 
There are movies where plot is built upon a single stupid idea. "Transporter" is not that kind of a movie - each stupid plot idea is followed by the next one that makes this one look like a gem of a human culture. I am confident they used one of the big soap opera scenario writers to write a scenario for this one. Too bad they weren't allowed to put one of the characters in a coma...
You know, criminals are apparently really bad when it comes to driving. Most of them tried many times but failed to pass for a driver license. That's the basic premise of the movie. What, you are not rushing to buy or rent it yet?! Read on. Now, since the crooks cannot drive, they need a driver for hire to drive/transport them. The kind of driver that can transport a briefcase or a bag from one French town to another without asking questions. The one that is able to drive the bank robbers for some half an hour in a small town completely surrounded and followed by police cars and not get caught and/or identified (note to myself: move my bank accounts from small French coastal towns back to US on Monday).
So everything goes fine: the crooks get same day delivery without giving in to FedEx, the cops are happy because even though they suspect the protagonist to be the transporter, they cannot prove it (not a single scratch on his car - his driving instructor must be a happy man). It all goes downhill however, when he manages to look into a package during one delivery.
I will not delve further into the plot as I don't want to spoil your fun. The premise discussed here is nothing compared to the rest of the film. I especially liked the girl's father (Ric Young). He looked so unnatural (in Michael Jackson kind of sense) that I was sure that he would reveal himself as a woman at the end of the movie. All in all, the actors fit the plot perfectly: there is no Cannes or Oscar kind of performance here. Oh, and you actually get 2-in-1: a movie AND an endless BMW commercial, which makes "standard" product placement employed in other films nowadays pale in comparison.
To conclude: run, don't walk, to rent this movie: you will have so much fun it will hurt.