I just wanted to say. . . a few of the reviewers are absolutely clueless and wrong in regard to the mixing of classical/contemporary motifs (i.e., "this horrible misinterpretation of Shakespeare" . . . "people dressed as ancient Romans, riding around in motorcycles and cars, speaking ancient gibberish").  The belief that contemporary interpretations of Shakespeare should "[e]ither keep it classic (with ancient sets, costumes, and speech), or make it modern (with modern sets, costumes, and speech)" totally negates and ignores the actual nature of Shakespeare's works.  It is no small wonder that the reviewer I'm alluding to found little enjoyment from this production. . . knowing a bit about Shakespeare's aesthetic and method of making art does help in enjoying how people interpret his plays. . . 
I guess that I'm saying all of this because in Shakespeare's times (and in many of his plays). . . his plays (and the productions of his plays) were meant to be anachronistic.  They contained chronological mistakes. . . for example, if we saw an actor wearing a watch in Mel Gibson's Braveheart. . . it doesn't fit.  Well, Shakespeare's plays contain purposeful (and accidental) mistakes like this. . . in essence, watches all over the place.  His plays combine elements of the "old," classical times. . . say, Ancient Rome in the case of Titus. . .  But, they also contain references to topical events and British culture/society.
Shakespeare (whether by pure intent or mistake) often blurred the line between time and setting in the way his plays are presented.  Taken from real, historical perspectives. . . plays like Richard III would make no sense to our disgruntled reviewer. . .  Richard III contains a character (Margaret) who had been dead for several decades (maybe even centuries. . . I can't remember, exactly) before Richard was even born.  However, she is a living, breathing entity in the play and even a British audience in the time of Shakespeare would have known that she was out of place. . . BUT ACCEPTED THE DISCREPANCY AS PART OF THE PLAY'S STYLE.  Shakespeare put this character from the past in his play (and she almost seems like a ghost) to haunt Richard and represent the lingering shame of a bloody Bristish history of vengence and betrayal.  Thus, mixing an out of place element into a Shakesperean play is not bad. . . Shakespeare does it all the time, even in his choices of characters and setting. . .
This isn't even to start citing examples of how certain props in certain plays are completely out of place in the supposed "reality" of the production.  For instance, scores of flowers that appear in Shakespeare's plays stick out like sore thumbs in the setting they're in.  The gloomy blooms of Ophelia's despair in Hamlet (DENMARK) are mostly (if not all) flowers from the British countryside located around Stratford on Avon. . .  Even the flower names murmured back and forth between the lovers of A Midsummer Nights' Dream (GREECE). . . yep, those flowers aren't Greek either. . . they're primarily British. . . from around Stratford on Avon. . .
I ramble, I make little sense and discredit my own assertions by continuing to talk.  Still, I thought it was important to mention this stuff because it actually demonstrates what a quality production Taymore's Titus is. . .  Her choices and decisions regarding people wearing Roman armor (who also drive around in cars) is little more than paying homage to Shakespeare's own love of mixing and matching different cultures, time periods and elements within his plays.  The combination of modern elements with the savagery of ancient Rome has a special power. . . to miss that is to miss the better point of Shakespeare.
By looking at the "savagery" and bloodlust of a classical civilization, Taymore allows us to realize how little difference exists between our culture and that "savage" time period.  The whole point is. . . as you are disturbed by "ancient roman armor" next to an arcade game like Space Invaders. . . or the ruins or Rome being the setting for motorcycles and modern vehicles. . . I think you come to realize that there is no juxtaposition. . . no jarring difference or uneveness about classical and "modern" elements being present, side by side. . . Taymore's work is powerful because it points out that be it Ancient Rome (legions and all) or the United States/Western World, year 2000. . . . the brutality and lesson of Titus is timeless.  Any revulsion to these weird combinations is actually a revulsion to the truth. . . that they are no different to each other within the fabric of the play.  Titus is an endearing, sad commentary by Shakespeare about the downward spiral of murder and needless death represented by stories like Cain and Abel.
Hence the reason Shakespeare's work is so often called "universal" and "timeless."  This production is a fine, postmodern interpretation of the disjointed elements of revenge. . . and it also portrays Shakespeare's (and our own society's) eventual preoccupation with violence and tragedy.  There are many, many better reviews here. . . I mainly wrote this to point out that playing with the time and chronological elements of a Shakespeare play is not sacrilege. . . it actually demonstrates that Taymore knows about the play and the spirit in which it was conceived/performed/observed by audiences.
I doubt I even explained what I wanted to. . . still, check out (Sir) Ian McKellan's Richard III if you have the chance and are interested in another excellent contemporary portryal of a play by Shakespeare.  However, I still find Titus more riveting and visually brilliant than McKellan's Richard III. . . . so, buy, rent, steal Titus if you're a fan of Shakespeare (or just interested in the sociology/the human psyche).  It's not for the faint of heart, but. . . then again, which tragedy by Shakespeare is. . . ?
enjoy the film!