I am not sure what to rate this movie as.  As a movie it kept me interested for the whole length.  However, as it represents itself as based on a true story, I would have to say that it is rather loosely based on the true story of the real girl in Germany in the 1970s of Annaliese Michel and it is not that close to the true story.  In the true story, there were two priests indicted and also indicted were the parents.  I would like to have known more about the real girl and not the story as depicted in this movie of a ficticious Emily Rose.  After reading all 187 reviews, I have to conclude that many saw this movie just to be entertained or shocked by it horror movie aspect even if the movie is supposed to be an exorcism based on this true story.  It is true that most movies are for entertainment, but this movie should make one think about the truth about demons.  Some apparently were mislead by the trailer and thought it was nonstop horror movie when most of it was a courtroom drama.

The real message that should have been taken from this movie is what the ficticious Canadian priest said of his experience with the demonic which was that "it scared the Hell out of him."  The other point the priest character made was that he wanted to take the stand to give the message of Emily Rose which was that Hell and demons are real.  That is the message that people should take away from this movie and that is that God is real, Hell is real and so is possesion, demons or fallen angels, victim souls, stigmatists and Catholic exorcists and exorcisms.  Only the Catholic Church possesses the power to exorcise demons from the possessed, a power that Christ himself exercised in the Gospel and promised to His Church, the One, True, Holy and Apostolic Catholic Church.  Whether or not the person of Annaliese Michel was truly possessed and died because the exorcism failed, only God knows ,and only the Catholic Church has the right to judge this case.  If she was a stigmatist, then again, it is up to the Catholic Church to decide if she was one or not. The state, such as Germany, does not have the right to outlaw exorcisms as superstitious or medeival.  If any one is interested in a true story of an exorcism, there is an excellent book called "Begone Satan," by Carl Vogl, available on Amazon for less than the price of a movie ticket.  As for stigmatists in the Catholic Church, there are many, including of course St. Francis of Assisi and St. Padre Pio of San Giovanni Rotunda in Italy who died only about 40 years ago.  When a man came to St. Pio and told him that he did not believe in Hell, Padre Pio told him, 'You'll believe it when you get there."

As for me, I believe all of the above - that Hell, demons, possession, exorcisms, etc., and all the truths of the Catholic Church exist.  As the tombstone of the real person of this story, Annaliese Michel, says, "Work out your salvation in fear and trembling."  That is what I intend to do, so help me God.  Many Catholic saints, such as St. Teresa de Avila, have experience the pains of Hell temporarily and the very thought of it makes the horrors of this movie seem minor.  One further recommendation is a book on Hell itself and that is "The Dogma of Hell" by F. X. Schouppe.  Reading that will make ones hair stand on end.  One does not have to be overly fearful of demons and Hell, however, if one is in the state of sanctifying grace and dies in that state.  He will be assured of Heaven, even if he has to pass through Purgatory.  But again, we must remember that Satan does go about as a roaring lion seeking those who he may devour and the wise will take heed.