This movie does not do Jane Austen justice. Where is the traditional apology of the father after he finds out his charge was actually right all along? What have they done to the Antiguan subplot, and where did all this  comment on the Antiguan slave trade come from? What happened to the  layabout lifestyle of the eldest son, and why was he suddenly sent to  Antigua when in the book he was good for nothing? 
This movie leaves so  many questions unanswered. The biggest one of all is why did the writers  even bother calling it Mansfield Park, when it evidently is not. Henry and  Mary Crawford's deception was never so obvious as in this movie. Their  countenance was revealed in more subtle ways - the product of bored sibling  minds. But what is this? Henry Crawford actually having sex with Mrs B? And  don't even start me on the basket of fireworks and doves. Jane Austen would  never have written such trite!
Any good fan of Jane Austen will tell you  that timing is everything in telling a story. Her novels are built to  careful meter, with rigorous and thorough treatment of every situation. The  movie however, manages to gloss over every intricate detail placed so  intelligently by Jane Austen in an attempt to provide a more fast-paced  account of sexual and mental betrayal. In fact, the movie tends to be  slower than the book, and certainly less detailed (I'm not even sure that  someone who hadn't read the book would understand what was going on half  the time). Some would argue that a movie is only two hours and one cannot  possibly cram a full book's worth of information into it. It would have  been nice, however, if they'd managed to include some of the plot.
As for  the ending....well what can I say. It could have turned out differently -  but it didn't.
The only saving grace of this movie are the well-cast  actors who play Edmund Bertrum and Fanny Price. The couple are adorable,  and I'm sure that if Edmund's nostrils stop quivering, he will make a good  actor some day.