Since leaving Disney, Don Bluth was once the great hope for the salvation of American animation.  Since that time, he was responsible for one great film, a few really good ones and a lot of other stuff.  TITAN A.E. is among the "other" stuff.  
After the terribly underrated ANASTASIA, I had really high hopes for TITAN.  Since his remarkeable debut with THE SECRET OF NIMH (his best film and probably the best commercial non-Disney American animated film to date) Bluth's efforts have been spotty, with a large portion being on the downside of quality.  ANASTASIA made a statement that those days might now be behind.  Unfortunately TITAN proves otherwise.
The film opens in exciting fashion with an impressive and thundering spectacle of action, tension and good animation.  At this time I point out that the film's sound is spectacular.  It probably sounds better than any other film of the year.  There is also another great suspence sequence at the end with spacecraft playing a classic cat and mouse game in a field of ice crystals.
Unfortunately, there's a lot of stuff in between those great scenes.  I found the dialogue almost impossible to hear in spots and the character animation is very clumsy (especially considering the nice work in much of ANASTASIA) and, truth be told, the plot is totally senseless.  There is no reason behind any of it.  Not only that, but the film is just stuffed with cliche after cliche after cliche, stock characters and an ending sequence you could see a mile away.  There are a few fresh ideas like a race of wicked winged aliens, but this gets burried in the muck of a muddled and over-all dull production.  
The site blurb calls TITAN under-rated, but I beg to differ; it is far over-rated given the number of positive reviews I saw when it opened (and anyone who thinks this film is more entertaining than STAR WARS EPISDODE ONE is loopy.)  If the film was ignored by audiences it is because it deserved to be.
Don Bluth left Disney to make fresher animated films, but it turns out the company he left was the true salvation of American animation.  If you want to see a great Don Bluth movie, rent THE SECRET OF NIMH or ANASTASIA.  If you want to see the best American non-Disney  animated film since NIMH go out and get THE IRON GIANT which really rocks.  But, if I were you, I'd leave TITAN A.E. to the easily impressed critics.