I had hoped to enjoy this new anime series and looked forward to reviewing it, but, after watching this entire disc, I'm sort of at a loss for what to suggest.

First, the obvious -- the animation on this release is rather thin.  Two examples will illustrate my point:

1)  Many scenes only have mouths flapping with no other animation on the entire screen.
2)  The illustration of water, in various forms, on characters became nothing short of annoying:  whether pouring rain, a sweaty brow, someone splashed with hundreds of gallons of water, or any other form of wetness one can conceive of, the droplets of water always BEAD on the characters' skin, even if it's in a downpour.  The water never RUNS.  Simple animation always neglected.  Really unimpressive work.

For the potentially positive --
The scenario has a lot of potential, but I can't tell whether the makers have the creativity to use this potential for positive development or not; and, this issue dovetails with the primary issue I view negatively, which is the cost.  The episodes are a mere 20 minutes each, and there are only 5 on the whole disc (you do the math on the high cost of this series).

Supposedly, another series of 5 episodes, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001K98M5A">Darker Than Black: Volume Two</a> will be released in late January, and its cost is lower, but given what I've been able to evaluate so far, I honestly can't in good conscience recommend this series because there just isn't much to go on (in fact, even the 5th episode is greatly disjointed in time from the others and injects new characters and potential plot lines, so it is difficult to tell if it will lead in an interesting direction or not), while investing quite a sum of cash.

Maybe the next set will have better animation, less trite small-talk in some scenes, etc., but I can't justify the cost for this first set, even with the hopes that the next installment will make it all worth the investment.  I simply can't tell.  And that's my honest assessment.