The movie Young Mr. Lincoln, directed by John Ford, produced in 1939 with Henry Fonda as Lincoln begins with Lincoln in his hometown running for the legislature and his relationship with Ann Rutledge. After Ann's death  Lincoln goes to Springfield to practice law.  Lincoln's first case is  defending two brothers accused of murder.  Matt Clay stabs Scrubb White  with a knife in a brawl.  When Matt and his brother are asked who murdered  White they both claim that they did.  The entire town seems to be against  the accused and the likeliness of the brothers being acquitted seems  unlikely.  However, Lincoln disproves the witness who claimed to have seen  the fight and the murder by the bright moon's light by an almanac.  According to the almanac, the moon was about to set during the time and day  of the murder and could not have been bright enough for the witness to see  by moon light at a distance of 15 feet away.  Not only does Lincoln prove  that J. Cass, the witness, committed perjury, but also Lincoln accuses the  witness of murdering of Scrubb White.  Lincoln theorized that when Cass  arrived at the brawl and saw that Scrubb was stabbed with the knife, Cass  cut Scrubb through the heart and killed him while taking out the knife from  Scrubb's body.  Lincoln accused Cass of killing White to because of a  dispute between them.  The movie's historical aspects are brought out by  Lincoln's different acquaintances and the fictional by the distortions made  in the trial to make it interesting, characteristic of the people, and the  filming of the movie.  Although these people did not contribute to  the plot of the movie, there were people with small roles who helped to  better understand the life of Lincoln. Ann Rutledge being one of them.  Through the one conversation that Ann and Lincoln had, one can easily see  that Lincoln's affection for her. Steven A. Douglas, Lincoln's political  rival, was pictured for only short time, and hardly any words pass between  Douglas and Lincoln but it is easy to see that they were not on good terms.  Mary Todd, Lincoln's future wife, helps us to see the aspects in Lincoln's  life that is difficult to see. Through the dance scene in the movie, one  realized the difficulties Lincoln may have gone through in his life being  brought up from a poor family and have not been thought to dance and other  upper-class ways of life.  The movie distorts much of the truths about  the trial.  The brawl actually took place on August 9th of 1857 not July  4th of 1832.  The accused were two best friends, James Norris and William  (Duff) Armstrong.  The fight was a drunken brawl between Norris and  Metzker.  During the fight Metzker was hit with a piece of wood by Norris  and a slung shot by Armstrong.  Metzker fell off his horse several times  going home from the brawl and was ill for five days after the fight and  died.  The trial of Norris and Armstrong were held separately and Lincoln  only defended Armstrong.  Lincoln was an old acquaintance with the  Armstrong family and defended Armstrong for free.  As in the movie, Lincoln  did prove the witness, Charles Allen, of perjury by the almanac but did not  accuse the witness of murdering Metzker.  Lincoln also had a few other key  witnesses, the most important Dr. Parker who testified that Metzker could  have died after falling off of the horse onto his head.  With so many  divergences from the true story, it is obvious that the scriptwriter did  not do much research.  The characters of the movie were very clear and  stereotypical.  The actions of J. Cass from the first time he comes on, as  were despiseable but as the story develops we see that he is even worse  than when first seen.  Abigail Clay is pictured as a sweet, old, loving,  women who can do helpless to do anything but watch death approach her sons.  Adam is a loyal brother who is willing to die for the other.  As most  movies of music helps the viewer better understand the movie.  The vibrant  lively music played as the mob tries to break into the jail cell and hang  the Adams and the melancholy flow when Abigail Adam visits her sons in the  jail communicate the emotions of the well.  The Jew's harp that Lincoln  twangs seems creates confusion and portrays the confusion Lincoln must be  going through as he tries to solve the case.  Lincoln's performance in the  festival games develops the characteristics of Lincoln, such as his  strength in the log splitting competition, and his cunning in the  tug-o-war. The scenes outside in the nature were beautiful and impressive  especially the last scene in the movie where Lincoln stands alone on the  hill made a lasting impression. The movie was entertaining with a great  fictitious plot, effective music and beautiful scenery. N.F. Mendoza, a  movie critic commented on Ford's remarkable performance of Lincoln and  failed to mention the historical flaw of the movie.  Historically the movie  did help to portray Lincoln's personal life with Ann, Douglas, and Mary  Todd as it may have been but the major emphasis of the movie, but the trial  was greatly altered.  Therefore it the movie is definitely a failure as a  documentary.