With nothing better playing in the multiplex that weekend, I took another chance on a bad Tom Cruise flick. When am I gonna learn?

Now, I know this is an action movie and is supposed to be fun and mindless. But it was just annoying. Of course, there is almost no plot (Really, Really Evil Bad Guy steals some device which can destroy the world, and Our Hero must save the day),and what plot there is just serves as  connecting tissue for the action sequences. The usual absurdities are there, too. (Did you know that all top female secret agents look like 25 year old fashion models? Or that a Catholic hospital chaplain will marry you right on the spot?).

All this would be fine if the film is fun and entertaining. But  everything about it is irritating. The action sequences are loud, bombastic, but really not all that impressive (ooh, the helicopter flies between windmills! That building sure is high! Big deal.). They look more like attempted show off pieces for the director than anything else.

To top it off, Tom Cruise has less appeal as a lead action hero than a paper bag. The James Bond films, for instance, have leads that are stylish, clever and witty. Cruise exhibits no personality at all. There is zero chemistry between him and his (much younger, of course) spouse. And he is on screen in almost every scene, making the movie quite painful as a totally undeserved ego trip for its star. The rest of the characters, for the most part, are ciphers,  giving Cruise equally bland support.  The always reliable Philip Seymour Hoffman is the exception, giving a deliciously evil performance as the villain. I was rooting for him!

It's a shame that so much time and effort is put into something that is so empty and bogus. Even the 14 year old boy I brought to this thing called it "stupid." Don't waste any of your time and money, not even for a rental. An afternoon nap would be less wasteful, and more exciting.

P.S. My favorite moment of dumbness: Cruise's Clark Kent persona is as a transportation engineer for the Virginia Department of Transportation. I love it when he tells his wife that he has to go to a conference on mass transit for a couple of days in Dallas, and won't be able to contact her!As a real life transportation engineer, let me reassure you that we are perfectly able to keep in touch with our spouses when we have to be away.

Our lives are more mudane than that, but actually more thrilling than

 the film.