Movies don't get more exciting and heart-pounding than George Miller's The Road Warrior (1981). Released theatrically in the same year as Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), The Road Warrior is every bit as influential and exhilarating as Steven Spielberg's cliffhanger bonanza. That it was made on a meager budget of $4 million proves that great movies can succeed on quality, not quantity.

As every action fan knows, The Road Warrior is the sequel to the apocalyptic original, Mad Max (1979). In the original, Mel Gibson played as a patrol cop who lost his wife and child due to a brutal gang and exact vengeance on them Charles Bronson-style. In the sequel, Max, along with a feisty mutt, goes on the run, searching for gasoline to keep his car going while avoiding dangerous outsiders who control the alluring highways. Max comes across a band of rebels, whose attempts to escape to safer, higher ground have been thwarted and imprisoned in an oil refinery thanks to a sinister motorcycle gang led by the evil Humungous. In exchange for gas, Max offers his service to the band. But like Ethan Edwards from The Searchers, in doing so, Max discovers something that he lost a long time ago...his own humanity.

I've stated many times that The Road Warrior is a great action movie. But words cannot describe how exciting and well-done the action scenes are. But I'll do the best I can in that regard. The opening scene where Max encounters Wez and his posse is riveting enough but the scenes where Max drives a semi-truck back to the compound while dealing with the motorcycle gang and is ambushed after ending his services with the band are also exciting.

Then there's the final car chase where Max uses a trucker as a decoy to lure Humungous and his army away from the escaping oil marauders. Joining the pantheon of great movies with great car chases such as Bullitt (1968), The French Connection (1971), Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), Diva (1982) and Speed (1994), this final car chase is simply mind-blowing. At the hands of an amateur exploitation director, the action scenes would come across looking confusing and sloppy but thanks to Miller's tight direction, great pacing and exceptional editing, these action scenes are both easy-to-follow and engaging without being overwhelming to a normal moviegoer.

But to talk about the action is to overlook the acting and visuals, which are also the key ingredients to the movie's success. Cinematographer Dean Semler, who would go on photograph the likes of City Slickers (1991), Dances With Wolves (1991) and Apocalypto (2006), creates an apocalyptic Australia, a vast world of desert landscapes and empty highways where danger lurks behind every intersection. The costumes and makeup are also stylish, with the punk mow-hawk elements worn by Humungous' army being the standout. Humungous, in particular, looks like a real menace with his hockey mask, lack of wardrobe and his enormous muscle mass. Like Star Wars, the technical staff in The Road Warrior successfully bring to life a "used future", a future that is neither pristine or polished but gritty and cynical, appropriate to the movie's apocalyptic theme and setting.

Because the movie conveys the meaning and acting through visual means, it's no surprise that dialogue is not heavily emphasized here. It's actually a smart move by the filmmakers because the dramatic scenes wind up being more resonant as a result. In a scene before Max and the obnoxious gyro captain enters the oil refinery, the two look down on the carnage ignited by Wez's gang on a group of innocent bystanders. As the gyro captain looks on, we see one of the gang members shoot an arrow at the woman who is offscreen. The scene then cuts to gyro captain's reaction and his horrified reaction speaks volumes. Similarly, Max spends less time talking than observing his surroundings and thinking about his situations. But like Clint Eastwood in Sergio Leone's The Man With No Name movies, when he talks, it feels eventful. When Max expresses his services to the good marauders and later tells them he will drive the truck, you get the feeling that you're in the presence of a real-life hero.

Speaking of expression, the acting in the Road Warrior is very good and over-the-top. Typically, I can't stand performers that overact but in this case, it's actually appropriate. Most subtle of these performers is, not surprisingly, Mel Gibson. As Max, Mel Gibson portrays a quiet loner with a nihilistic outlook on humanity. But by the end of the movie, as Gibson discovers his humanity, he becomes a warmer, more likable main character and Gibson's acting helps his character fully developed throughout the duration of the picture. On the other side of the spectrum are the villains Wez and Humungous (played by Vernon Wells and Kjell Nilsson) and Gibson's companion Feral Kid (Emil Minty). Wells is wildly over-the-top as the crazed lunatic biker that slaughters his enemies without ever being fazed by arrow shots. When The Feral Kid murders his male lover, Wez snaps and becomes a raging psychotic in a manner that could have been laughable but is actually riveting to watch. Nilsson is the quintessential main villain: towering, immense and with a voice (presumably dubbed) that epitomizes psychological warfare. As the Feral Kid, Minty brings an animalistic quality to the character but also a youthful innocence that makes him an endearing character. The Feral Kid can be as child-like as E.T. (as seen when Max gives him a small musicbox) and as vicious as Rambo (what he does with his boomerang) and Minty makes that character change work without being sloppy and awkward.

The Road Warrior stands as one of the best action movies ever made. Unlike many action movies that come and go because of their inability to create intelligent stories without resorting to pyrotechnics and fast-cutting to keep audiences awake, The Road Warrior works because of its gripping story, memorable characters, exceptional pacing and, of course, the action scenes themselves, makes it a breed apart from other stuntman movies where story is less valued than the stunts.

Don't walk away from this movie.

Strongest recommendation.