- CAUTION: SPOILERS BELOW -

I first saw Ninth Gate at the theater in 1999 or 2000 and I'm convinced that that is the best way to see this movie. Lights low, huge picture in front of you, rich, booming sound. The opening credits are great; Polish musician Wojciech Kilar's opening theme is excellent and sets an appropriate tone of weariness and dread. Some of the pluckier parts of the soundtrack don't seem to mesh too well, or seem dated -- but the opening theme is masterfully done.

The movie concerns a book dealer's attempts to piece together the three known copies of a medieval tome that was supposedly co-written by Lucifer in 1666. Yes, co-authored by Lucifer himself. Apparently Lucifer likes to sign his name "LCF," the movie shows, and he does engravings, too. Piecing together all Lucifer's drawings in the 3 extant copies of the 'The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows,' a book that reminds of the Necronomicon, enables one to summon the dark lord. Or so the theory goes.

Depp does an adequate, low-key job as the unscrupulous book collector in search of the volumes on behalf of a wealthy New York client (Frank Langella). As others have mentioned, you do get the feeling that some sort of unspeakable evil is always JUST around the corner. But after awhile it begins to feel like a big put-on. Is anything going to ever happen or not? The pacing of the plot is deliberate, even langorous, and there is a good amount of suspense and unease, ladled on thick and grey in various European settings. The characters are interesting and even eerie (the two book makers in Portugal, for example).

There are some moments, however, where the film seems to devolve into self-parody. For example, when you think of it, Satan himself, sitting around, doing drawings, and planting them in 3 different books -- well, that's kind of absurd, no? Nonetheless, if you don't think about such minutaie too much, you can enjoy the atmosphere and moodiness the movie conjures. One failing of the movie was when Depp's character, Corso, encounters the pack of Satanists at a secluded European mansion. This scene, which should have been climactic, seems to want to play like EYES WIDE SHUT, and it does sort of play that way -- but it's EYES WIDE SHUT as directed for the old 80s TV show Amazing Stories. Kind of hokey. In fact, some moments of this scene are laughably bad: One of the female Satanists, for some reason, hastily strips off her black silk robe and scuttles away naked, as if she'd just seen Godzilla approaching Mt. Fuji. Granted, fleeing is one thing -- but stripping off your clothes as you do so? Why was this put here? What the heck, Roman Polanski? Another Satanist looks like a Renassance Fair enthusiast, in long hair and a pony tail. And when Frank Langella strides into the scene, dressed like lawyer Melvin Belli in the Rolling Stones' GIMME SHELTER, proclaiming, "Mumbo jumbo! Mumbo jumbo! Mumbo jumbo!" it's hard not to laugh.

The ending also felt antclimactic. I remember in the theater that folks sat in hushed silence as the credits came up, and there was a feeling of disbelief that that confused, ambiguous little bit at the end really was the ending. (You'll know what I mean when you see it.)

If someone else other than Roman Polanski had made this movie -- a new director, perhaps -- you'd think, "Hmm, this was uneven but it had its moments. I can't wait to see what this director does in the next few years." But since it *is* Polanski and you expect a degree of excellence from him, it's a let down -- of sorts. ROSEMARY'S BABY and REPULSION are far superior to this. But if you have seen THE TENANT, Polanski's last of his unofficial trilogy of which REPULSION & ROSEMARY'S were the first two parts, well, it's about on level with that. THE TENANT was also a good, suspenseful, disturbing movie that nonetheless delivered a confusing, unsatisfying ending and had uneven, silly moments.

I'm torn between recommending this or not. I give it 3 stars. I wish I could say 3 and a half. It's not bad. But it just isn't as great as we know Polanski is capable of. Go into it with low expectations and you may be surprised.