When I found this DVD in a used bookstore it looked interesting. I could not have been more wrong! The story line is stupid. People killed by being blown to smithereens only to wake up in an alien created alien world completely restored to a healthy life all injuries repaired, but as the movie progresses the aliens who did this claim they have limited ability and control over how the awakened dead behave. They have the power over life and death itself, but no power over any behavior other that making sure everyone speaks english so we can all understand them and they each other. This movie is so full of holes and loose ends left as loose ends it is extremely frustrating.

Just one mention of the un-natural crap brought out in the movie is that this alien world is approximately 100 times the size of the earth. If this were true then the gravitational forces would be too great for normal humans to exist, but everything appears as normal for the purpose of the movie and humans can stand up and move around as though the gravitational force was equal to earth. Another loose end left loose.

I have to wonder if homosexuality is written into the original book this movie came from because it appeared the director/producer of this movie threw it into the movie un-necessarily for purposes of indoctrination. We had children watching this movie up to the point of when two men kissed and then we paused the movie and sent the children outside after a brief explanation of the perverted abomination presented in this film- also showing that an awakened from the dead Mark Twain also approved of homosexuality which is historical revisionism and irresponsible of all involved in this garbage. Needless to say it but the homosexual garbage thrown into this movie further ruined an already terrible movie. Don't waste your time and money on this garbage unless you are one of those who prefer the perverted lifestyle. We don't. And this movie is going right back to the bookstore, but this time with a perversion warning written directly on the disc for the next idiot who might make the mistake of purchasing this garbage. I'm getting a refund! And whoever made this movie needs their a** whipped.