While I'm glad to see that Poltergeist is available on DVD, I'm dissapointed with the studios for not adding of any kind of special features. I would've loved to have seen a 'making of' documentary for this movie. And why not? I know footage of the making of this movie exists, because I've seen some of it on a Spielberg biography, and the laserdisc version. So why was none of it used for the DVD!? It would've been far more interesting than a little 8-page booklet, but that's just my opinion. But MGM and Warner Brothers aren't exactly renouned for special edition dvd's.
As far as the audio and video quality goes, it wasn't that bad. Poltergiest is presented in dolby 5.0, and the picture, available in both wide and fullscreen, was fairly decent, though a little too dark at times.  Unfortunatly, those were the only two things keeping this disc from being a total waste. All in all, Poltergeist is a great movie, but a dissapointing dvd. And with the Warner Bros. version being packaged in a cheap cardboard 'snap-case', it doesn't even have the eight-page insert the MGM version has! 
There is some good news though. Warner Bros. is releasing an actual 'SPECIAL EDITION' OF POLTERGEIST in the fourth quarter of 2002 to mark its 20th Anniversary! More good news is that the first R1 DVD of POLTERGEIST II: THE OTHER SIDE will be released at the same time. So, if you haven't purchased this title yet, my advice to you would be to wait until the special edition is released. The current edition offeres nothing more than VHS quality picture, and a grainy, fullframe theatrical trailer.
In closing, I'd give the movie 5 stars for sure, but I'm rating the DVD. I just think one of the greatest horror-thrillers of all time deserves more than a trailer and an eight page booklet. I hope the new version will be newly remasterd, have a good 'making of' documentary, interviews with both Steven Spielberg and Tobe Hooper, deleted scenes, production photos, conceptual drawings, DTS sound, the whole works.  This movie deserves it!