This story revolves around Natasha Rostov.  She is the daughter of Count Rostov and lives in Moscow. She is a close friend of Count Pierre Bezukhov  She falls in love with the widow Prince Andrei Bolkonsky after the Battle of Austerlitz and gets engaged. After Natasha falls in love with another man, Prince Vasili Kuragine, she is forced to break up her engagement with Prince Bolkonsky. Prince Bolonsky then fights Napoleon at the battle of Bordino and gets mortally wounded. This improves Natasha's and Bolonsky's relationship before he dies. After Napoleon retreats from Moscow in 1812, Natasha returns to her family's demolished house and falls in love with the family friend Pierre Bezukhov.

This story is very historically accurate. The only real person in this story is Napoleon Bonaparte. According to wikipedia.org, "Others consider him (Napoleon) a tyrannical dictator whose wars and rule led to the death of millions and the permanent loss of prestige for France" ("Napoleon I of France"). This movie displays Napoleon as a man who only wants to fight. He doesn't care how many people he kills in this movie, he just wants to win glory. The two battles shown in this movie are also very accurate. Napoleonguide.com regarded the battle of Austerlitz as Napoleon Bonaparte's greatest victory; Austerlitz was a sublime trap that destroyed the armies of his enemies Russia and Austria." (napoleonguide.com). This movie showed a decisive French victory. The second battle scene in this movie showed the Battle of Borodino. According to wikipedia.org, "the battle ended with inconclusive tactical results for both armies, and only strategic considerations forced the Russians to withdraw" ("Battle of Borodino"). This movie shows the aftermath of the battle as happening that way.

This movie was set in early 19th century Russia. The movie starts in 1805 and ends in 1812. The movie takes place in Moscow, Borodino, and Austerlitz. All of the locations seemed realistic. Moscow had many Russian Orthodox churches and all of the nobility's houses were baroque in style.  These details are correct for early 1800's Moscow.  One prop that I thought were well presented were dueling pistols. According to answers.com, duels were common in 19th century Russia and pistols were the weapon of choice for duels (about.com). Another aspect of the movie that was good was the costumes. In Alan Schom's Napoleon Bonaparte there are pictures of the French uniform's and Napoleon's standard dress. In this movie the dress matched the dress shown and described in the book (Schom).

I would rate this movie seven out of ten. Henry Fonda was a terrible actor in this movie. Somehow his Midwestern accent failed to convince me that he was Russian. Mel Ferrer, on the other hand, did a much better job. He looked and acted like he was a noble. The plot moved very slowly in this movie. A lot could have been taken out without disrupting the story at all. One character that was a stereotypical Russian was Pierre. He spent the nights in a pub drinking vodka a lot, which was really not something the nobility did everyday. The story did build to a logical climax and resolution. The story did lose the viewers interest in the middle of the movie because the story was so long, 208 minutes. This movie would have been done much differently if it was made today. One major change would be that the battle scenes would be realistic. This movie made history more clear. If I made this movie I would get better acting and make it about half as long. I would not recommend this movie to another student because it takes so long to get through and it would not hold their interest throughout the whole movie.