This is my first movie review, so bare with me.

As a movie, I can probably say that this was a very 'ok' movie, and is worth probably a good-not-solid 4.
But, since this movie seems to primarily be based on Resident Evil 5 the video game, I was only hoping that they would add those nice touches from the game.

I watched this on DVD, not in blu-ray, or at the movie theaters, so I didn't witness the 3D like everyone.
I also don't have a 3D TV with 3D glasses for the blu-ray either, so that's probably also something that took away from the excitement.
When I first rented this (for $1 from the Redbox) I was thinking: Yes! I get to see more of Albert Wesker! Yes! I get to see the Executioner Majini! Yes, Chris Redfield in the movie for the first time! Yes, yes, yes!

But while I was watching the movie, and these characters started appearing, I was more saying no, no, no!! I'll explain.
They have the characters appearance down to a T, but the actors they got to play them are more-than-off.
I have a big problem with the people they cast to play Chris Redfield and Albert Wesker.
Since I'm coming specifically from Resident Evil 5 (As I've never played the previous ones and don't really know how Chris or Wesker looked in their thinner days), I'm expecting the actor that plays Chris to be chiseled and probably a little better looking than who they got to play, which is one of the stars from the show Prison Break: Wentworth Miller ([...])

Now, I started personally liking him as a PERSON, so I started to overlook that they got him to play the part, but it was still a back-thought saying "I'm settling with less by accepting him to play this part!" Wentworth is particularly skinny and thin when it comes to this character, even though he has Chris's voice (from Resident Evil 5) down packed, but it also doesn't look right for him to be talking like that. Chris talks a little overly-dramatic, or at least KIND of, and Wentworth did a great job at that, but it didn't look right for him to be talking like that, and also took away from the character and movie.

Next, it's Albert Wesker. Again, coming from the game itself I was expecting the Albert Wesker they cast to be older and more mature.
Personally, it doesn't look right for Wesker to be 'Young,' seeing him on Resident Evil 4, he actually was alot younger looking than 5, but I started liking his matureness on 5. But the person they have playing this character is: Shawn Roberts ([...]). Honestly, he started looking like a Mr.Smith (from Matrix) more than Wesker. Again, I started liking this actor as a person, therefor tried to overlook the character he was playing; but unlike Chris's actor, I just couldn't. Honestly, he is way too young to play this character, and his face is a little fat and it's just not kosher. Really, this was kind of a big deal breaker for me, seeing as Wesker is one of my favorite characters, yet they ruined him so deeply.

As far as everyone else goes, I never played any of the previous Resident Evils before RE4, so I don't know many of the new characters they introduced, like Luther West (Played by Boris Kudjo), if he even IS a character from the video game series.
I just knew Claire from her relationship between Chris (sister/brother). But other than that, I guess they have the right casting; I pretty much just look at the new characters they bring from the game, which I think they never execute properly at all, it's always something big off in regards to the actor playing the characters, even though they can't always be the perfect match, they still can find much better people to play these parts.

But enough about the characters and actors.
The movie itself isn't scary at ALL, much like Resident Evil 5, so they got THAT correct. It's barely even suspenseful.
It's actually pretty boring and slow until the Executioner Majini comes in to play, but in my honest opinion, even that battle was done wrong. Knowing that the Executioner Majini would be in the movie, I was happy to see how well the fight looked against him and the protagonists; but really, for him to be an Executioner the whole battle (if you wanna go as far as to call it "a battle") surely wasn't executed right at all.

I don't know if the infected in this movie are Majini or Zombies or what, but they do resemble Majini's how their mouths open up and the things come out, so I'll just call them as both. I liked the way they introduced the Executioner Majini, it was slightly suspenseful and it was like: uh oh! Here it comes! But when they actually fought it, it was cool and everything, but it just wasn't right. You have this big thing, yet it goes down like any other monster with a carefully aimed shot...They tried to shoot it and show that it 'doesn't go down easy,' even with a bullet-to-tha-brain But even that felt like non-sense after a little while.

I know that 'bosses' in movies can't be THAT hard or have THAT long of a battle, as it might make the scene feel repetitive, but to have THAT short of a battle just made it seem like you got ripped off. Again, like I said, this is all because I'm coming from the game itself, to critique these things as just a movie-watcher with no knowledge of the game, then it was just another boss fight done well, I GUESS.

But anyways, also, a problem I had with this is the fact that they call it a zombie movie, yet there really aren't that many zombies.
It seems like they just show a giant horde of zombies on the other side of the barricades to make it seem like uh oh we have to fight all these zombies! But no, really, they only have 2 if not 3 zombie encounters the whole movie. And really, besides the Executioner Majini, they didn't have any new monsters or anything that would make you say "What's THAT?"

The whole movie is basically filled with talking and walking, and while there might be enough action scenes, they aren't such a big impact that would make me say, this is too much action! Which is a bad thing, because none of the scenes were overwhelming, and in a good action movie, there has to be AT LEAST a FEW overwhelming things, to accompany the boring walking and talking scenes that come after it, but no, it was just 'ok' action.

Really, I'm not saying that boring walking and talking is actually boring, because it was actually pretty ok, but still, for it to be so much of this, with less-than-stellar action, it kind of makes the whole movie kind of boring, but still good.
Like the title says, this is a review from someone who played the games, and is disappointed with the way they implemented things, and is also disappointed with a few of the actors they cast to play such huge roles of Chris Redifield and Albert Wesker, a few of the main hearts of the series. And if I had to rate this movie specifically in ways of a Game-to-Movie transaction, then I would rate it probably a 2, because of the disappointment.

But when it comes to a movie itself, I could probably give it a 4, but you have to understand that this IS a game adaptation, if not directly. But it does come from the video game series, and they should have better thought-out the casting a lot better, and added a little more action AND horror/suspense to it. I loved the first Resident Evil movie, because it was scary in the dank underground subway or wherever, but I hate the fact that people can say "Fear in daylight" and just expect it to be scary...No, there can't be scary movies or games in the daylight, not unless it's filled with deep suspense as well.

It may seem like I'm reviewing a Resident Evil game right now, but I just can't help it because I'm a fan of the game(s) and I just wanted to get into some good Resident Evil action. I was hoping, really hoping, that this movie was bring back the scary-feeling that Resident Evil: Extinction, and to a lesser extent, Resident Evil: Apocalypse, was missing.

The game elements they implemented into the movie, honestly took big chunks out of the movie itself, seeing as how much they, to me, failed in all aspects of the new things added into the movie.

In the beginning of the movie you might be thinking: what? I hope the whole movie isn't like this. But it changes.
So, watching this as just a movie-goer with no experience of the game, it might be really boring.
I know that I gave this a 3, and possibly a 4, even though I'm talking rather harshly of the movie, but I guess at most it was a pretty alright movie; but like I said, the characters they inserted into this movie (mostly Chris and Wesker) failed in all aspects of the character, beside Wentworth's spot on voice. They can't put ANYone in a black leather coat, black shades, red eyes, and
slicked-back hair and call them WESKER...No...no way.

I give this a 3, and it's worth a watch. It may not be worth a buy though, if you're collecting these Resident Evil movies, then the most I would say is that it will just be part of the collection, most likely nothing else. This is the worst of all the other 3 Resident Evil movies for me. I hoped this helped.