I give this movie a 1 star for the acting and layout of the movie.

1) From the start this movie is chezzie.  It shows Henry Fonday flying and taking a photo of two German Officers riding in a car.  The flying part looks so cheap.  No pilot is going to fly like he's on horse.  As they flew over the German the driver of the car was acting stupid.  I don't think a German would run off the road and hide.  This aircraft was just taking photos.  Most soilders would fire at aircraft like this.
2)All the soilders when they are shot they all throw their hands up and do stupid moves.  This is so Hollywood.
3)You would think that with all the Big names here the acting would be alot better.  At times it seems that they are reading word for word from a cue card.
4)Again when the scene goes to others in a vehicle, it's all stage and looks chezzy.
5) In the part where the German combat Officers are in trailer that is being pulled by a Half-Track.  The camera pans by and shows the side of the trailer and the top vents are flipping open and close.  And then the camera goes inside to where they are meeting.  Now this trailer is only about 20 feet long.  But once inside it appears to be a large room.  But inside you see no vents flipping open and close.  And then the Commend Officers goes in a back room of the trailer.  Come on, are you kidding me.
6)In the scene where the tanks started to take over the field, the US GI's were jumping in the trucks.  One scene showed soilders throwing down their guns while they jumped in the truck, once again are you kidding me. And then there was a scene where the US GI's that were shot and died after they were captured.  When the camera started to fade out, you could see the US GI's starting to get up.
7)Another scene showed the German tanks rolling in a town and started to drive over some large logs.  And then 2 US GI's ran up and placed white packaged C-4 explosives on the lower front of the tank as it started to climb over the logs. And then the US GI's started to run.  As the camera zoomed in on the tank, there was no C-4 on the front its like it disappeared
8)There are to many scenes where models are used and it is very obvious.  I just can't believe that with all the hype of this movie then in the 70's. That this movie is nothing what I expected.  But this is my thoughts only.

If you watch the making of this movie from the extras, you would think that this is high budget film.  But I have seen 'B' movies that were better than this.  I was thinking that I would have another decent WWII to add to my collection.  But after about 20 mins. of viewing this I started to get bored.