This is ELP's live recording of a handful of sections from Mussorgsky's "Pictures at an Exhibition" piano suite.  They get points for taking the piece on *at all*, and more points for actually doing some portions well, but if you're familiar with either the original piano version or Ravel's orchestral transcription, it sounds like a band wiping their behinds on a beloved piece of music while simultaneously trying to siphon some second-hand "high-cultural seriousness" from it.
First, the positives: The opening "Promenade"/"Gnome"/"Promenade" work really well... arranged with color and imagination.  Greg Lake sneaks in an original comosition, "The Sage", which is really quite lovely.  "The Hut of Baba Yaga" and "The Great Gate of Kiev" also, by and large, make the leap from classical repertoire to rock-a-thon successfully, aside from an unfortunate segment of you-had-to-be-there organ feedback in the latter.
The negatives:  Emerson masturbates his Moog synthesizer far too often, and when he actually plays *discernable notes* on it, it is glaringly out-of-tune.  "Old Castle-Blues Variation" is actually an incredibly dull "blues" rhythm with Mussorgsky's melody plopped insensitively over the top of it, while the rest of the band lazily thuds along.  The recurring "Promenade" sections---in the original version of this piece, the harmonies are varied in each repeated movement, giving each one a distinct musical flavor, but here they just repeat it the same way every time, only with Palmer beating his drums a little louder in each repetition.  I get put off by the general air of "We're going to play this time-honored piece of music, and you should percieve us as serious musicians for doing so, but please ignore the fact that we are really just using the score as toilet paper."
The real value of this stage of their development as a band, is that playing "Pictures" provided them with a structural prototype for Emerson's own original, truly progressive compositions that would surface on their next two albums, "Trilogy" and "Brain Salad Surgery", which are truly 5-star efforts.  (TRILOGY'S, "Endless Enigma", especially, is like a condensed "Pictures".)  Ultimately, "Pictures" is merely transitional for ELP, and doesn't do Mussorgsky any favors!