I didn't expect much going into this film.  It was "directed" by James Dudelson and Ana Clavell, the filthy, uninspired hacks who somehow got their hands on a lot of George Romero properties and produced the unspeakbly awful DAY OF THE DEAD 2.  These two individuals should be stopped before they "direct" again.  They are as talentless as they are physically ugly.  With all that said, CREEPSHOW 3 was slightly better than I expected it to be.  It has a few decent moments (very few) but mostly the stories are incredibly stupid, poorly written and atrociously acted and directed.  Oddly, I didn't mind the animated portion of the film that everyone else is complaining about, and for all of it's obvious lack of budget, I thought the film itself looked okay.  There were a couple of decent gore effects as well, and the Call Girl/Vampire story was actually enjoyable (for me at least).  I also thought that the music score by Chris Anderson was acceptable (although not anywhere close to the scores composed by John Harrison, Rick Wakeman etc.).  CREEPSHOW 3  ends with the single worst CGI animation effect I have ever seen in a movie.  It looked like something I might come up with on my own computer after about five minutes of work.

What Taurus Entertainment and Dudelson and Clavell are doing with these rip-off sequals is simply obscene and should not be encouraged.  I bought my copy of CREEPSHOW 3 used simply so they wouldn't see a dime of my money.  I'm still holding a grudge from DAY OF THE DEAD 2.  They should truly be ashamed of themselves for bringing this blight into a wonderful little horror anthology series.  Of course the first two CREEPSHOW films still remain great classics, but it is so sad that CREEPSHOW 3 exists to put such a stigma on the series.  I see that a CREEPSHOW 4 is scheduled to shoot this year.  Let us hope that it can rise above the disaster that is CREEPSHOW 3.  Still, credit should be given where credit is due and not everything in this film is without merit.  The vampire sequence is pretty good, some of the gore effects are nice, the "radio" sequence isn't a complete failure but it goes on for far too long, the music score is decent and the film looks nice and bright with a few decent edits as well.  It isn't a complete failure, just an almost complete failure.