Where Julia Roberts has great success in her box office Cinderella story, 'Pretty Woman', Jennifer Lopez is less than successful.  I'm not saying that this is a bad movie---its cute, but its similarity to 'Pretty Woman' is almost text book and too convenient.
  J-lo is Marisa, a maid in a distinguished Manhattan hotel---she aspires to a management position and is motivated by her colleagues, and her son, Ty a young boy with a penchant for politics.  She's got two thorns in her side:  a mother who thinks management dreams are a waste of time and an ex-husband (who we don't see) who constantly disappoints Ty with his lack of involvement.  Enter Chris, young Anglo assemblyman played wonderfully and optimistically by Ralph Fiennes who when seeing Marisa dressed in a socialite's $5000 outfit assumes she is a guest at the hotel and becomes immediately interested.  J-lo keeps the facade going with some disastrous results and some funny moments with Natashia Richardson, as an over eager society woman, Bob Hoskins as the hotel's butler, and Stanely Tucci as Chris' PR man.

What's really wrong the movie is that unlike Gere and Robert's unmistakable likeability and chemistry, Lopez and Fiennes do not seem to match.  Fiennes is charming; he plays his part with the same boyish charisma seen in 'Quiz Show'--the audience cannot help but respond.  Lopez, on the other hand, is too harried, Fiennes good looks and pleasant mannerisms simply do not seem to effect her---why I can't imagine---perhaps she was too intent on playing Marisa as too burdened by her life as a single mother to actually enjoy the intentions of a fabulously good looking man. Her actions don't match the lack of emotions she fails to convey.  She comes across as flat (except for the obvious), Chris's dog has more soul peeking through out of its brown eyes than she does.  The young actor who plays Ty is far more engaging but his attachment to Chris seems stretched as does Tucci's desire to utterly control Chris's personal life---in these two cases, the fault lies with the script and not the actors.  Sadly, Fiennes is wasted in this film, but kudos to him on a perfect performance with little or no help from the script or his leading lady.

Recommended to those who simply love J-lo (?) AND to all women who love Ralph Fiennes.