Now I am a fan of the Hellraiser series. I remember watching the first Hellraiser back when it first came out (yea, Mom and Dad allowed me to watch whatever I wanted... SO WHAT?!?!). Hellraiser changed the horror genre... and Doug Bradley made PINHEAD an icon.

So... no Doug Bradley as Pinhead in this one.

Crap.

That right away turns me off. I don't like not having him in the iconic role of the lead cenobite. With that said... it took me a while to come to terms with Doug not being a part of this movie... so I didn't watch it.

Well, a few weeks ago I saw it was added to Netflix and I decided, "ok, it's time I just get this painful thing over with"... and I added it to my queue.

I would choose EASTER SUNDAY to watch a horror movie (LOL).

The plot was extremely similar in many ways to the first Hellraiser movie. I don't want to give away the plot or any story aspects because in the Hellraiser series, the tiniest little bit of information usually makes the difference. Needless to say, I found nothing wrong with the plot in general. If anything, I was really pleased that the STORY was a sort of backtrack to the original format of what Hellraiser was.

The acting... some were VERY good actors... some, not so much. Jay Gillespie was ok. I had seen him before in the remake of 2001 Maniacs with Robert Englund. I liked him in that movie but I didn't much care for him in this one. He seems a little OFF his game. Nick Eversman as Steven was really the star of this whole movie. He could turn his character on a dime and in a Hellraiser movie, that's what is needed. I was VERY impressed with him. Everyone else, just filler in my opinion.

The cenobites looked awesome as usual... a female chatterer, a few other female cenobites, then we get to the NEW PINHEAD... Stephan Smith Collins. Well... he's no Doug Bradley. And I found myself rather BORED with his version of Pinhead. He wasn't as cool and smooth as Doug in the role. He didn't have that twisted demon presence either. However, I will say he stood tall... and looked the part (mostly due to great people doing great makeup) but otherwise, his Pinhead wouldn't last 2 seconds with Doug Bradley's Pinhead in any showdown.

Is this a good Hellraiser?

No.

Is it worth seeing?

Yes.

If you are a fan of the Hellraiser series and have seen all the Hellraisers so far, sitting through Revelations isn't going to hurt you one damn bit... in fact it might make you nostalgic for the first Hellraiser... and if you sat through DEADER and/or INFERNO.... you can stomach this one which is better than those two COMBINED.

Hellraiser Revelations isn't the BEST of the Hellraiser series but it isn't the worst...

it depends on what you're looking for.

SO WHAT'S YOUR PLEASURE?