Ok, so the "character" of Elizabeth is shallow, entitled, etc....I read the book, before it became a "sensation", or before i was aware of it becoming a sensation. I think that is probably b/c there are probably thousands of woman out there who have felt what she is feeling yet don't have the cash or profession to take off for a year.  While the lead up to why Elizabeth is so unhappy in her marriage is barely hinted at in the movie (this i agree with, except it's only a two hour movie, and it would take at least 1/2 hour or 40 minutes to adequately portray that, and we, the audience, want to see Italy, so, chop chop), it is covered quite painfully actually in the book, at which point i almost put it down. I think the reason i didn't put the book down, was because Gilbert can actually be quite a good writer. There are soooo many self-help/travelogue/transformative whatever books out there, which i might be inclined to read, and have tried, and after a few dozen or so over the years, most discarded after a chapter or two, the narrator here is self aware enough to point out her own flaws and write well while doing it, so i didn't put it down. If you read any interviews with E. Gilbert, or the first couple of chapters of her other book Committed, you might come away understanding that she really didn't intend or expect this to become a sensation. I have been known on principle, not to see something or read something, b/c it is  a sensation, makes me distrust it. Whatever, I went to see the movie to get a vicarious trip to Bali and Italy, which i got, so I'm not complaining too much. And the whole complaint that these are first world problems and thus shallow, etc., yes, except if you are THAT unhappy in a marriage, get out before you inflict yourselves on children. Not everyone grew up with a perfect example of how to have a happy marriage, and it isn't always their fault for not having that example. This movie is admittedly the hollywood version of one woman's "journey".