I know what some, if not most of you, are thinking... 3 STARS?  I have seen the entire series, all the way to its conclusion.  I decided to write this review to give a little warning about what could have been one of the best anime mecha shows in the last few years.

So... to start with I will have to say the first DVD here is very good, there are very few things that detract from the first 5 episodes of this series.  The only thing I could say about it is the pacing in the begining is slow but you will realize later why it is paced in such a way.  The characters, dialogue, and story arc is very well thought out here in the begining and I enjoyed watching it immensely.

Now my review of the rest of the series is why I am writing this today.  The first "season" of Eureka Seven ( 1-26 ) is an incredible roller coaster ride that will both dazzle you and take you to places you wouldn't have considered before.  The second half of the series however is an INCREDIBLE dissapointment.  What was strong in the first season is weak in the second.  Strangely, also some episode budgets must have been cut in the second season as I could see marked difference in quality between episodes.  By far some of the worst episodes are in the second half of the show and I cannot begin to tell you how bad they are without possibly spoiling part of the story for you which I am loathe to do.  The story potential that was in the first half of Eureka Seven with its mysteries and life lessons are concluded badly and at times forgotten about in the second half, basically meaning the show felt like they were creating the ending as they were releasing episodes.  This generally works well in episodic shows but with such buildup, character developement, and mystery that was in the first half this does not work here.  To be honset if it was not for the first half I doubt I would have been able to finish watching the second, it was that painful to watch at times.

I wrote this review to warn you what will be coming ahaed and to say that Eureka Seven is an excellent anime with an unfortunate finish.  I am not saying do not watch this show but to just be a little wary of the second half, it could have been so much better.