**1/2 In the wheezingly old-fashioned "Mona Lisa Smile," Julia Roberts joins the ranks of Robert Donat, Glenn Ford, Sidney Poitier, Sandy Dennis, Robin Williams, Edward James Olmos, Michelle Pfeiffer and Kevin Kline, all of whom have played inexperienced teachers who manage to win over and inspire their initially recalcitrant students.  It matters not whether these pupils are hardened inner city gang types or snooty prep school geniuses, the arc of the story is always the same.  The teacher, armed with a sense of optimism and a zeal to "make a difference" in the students' lives, arrives at the institution nervous and unsure of whether she is really up to the challenge (or "he" in the case of many of these films).  After a predictably disastrous start, in which the students belittle her idealism and efforts and attempt to take advantage of her inexperience, the teacher invariably throws out the standard, stuffy, boring curriculum and finds a way to make learning relevant, fun and engaging.  This, of course, makes her the most popular teacher at the school, but also a threat to the ossified educational establishment, which throws up endless roadblocks in an effort to keep this know-it-all upstart from upsetting the applecart.  Undeterred, the teacher manages to get down to the students' level, rapping with them as if she were one of their own, helping to solve their problems and inspiring them to take their rightful place in society as freethinking, morally upstanding individuals.  Then comes the inevitable moment when the teacher must decide, midway through the term, whether or not she will be returning for the next semester, with the student who gave the teacher the most trouble at the start pleading with her to stay on and work her magic for generations of students to come. All of this invariably culminates in a tear-soaked finale wherein all the students gather in worshipful adoration of this almost godlike embodiment of Learning.  A number of the movies that have utilized this storyline have been quite good, actually, but "Mona Lisa Smile" is not one of them.  By bringing nothing particularly new to the formula, the film can't help feeling derivative and clich&eacute;d. Where is Miss Jean Brodie when we really need her?
"Mona Lisa Smile" begins in 1953 with Katherine Anne Watson's arrival as an art history instructor at Wellesley College.  The school, as it turns out, is a haven for elite snobs - and its educational philosophy of rote, tradition-bound learning shows that the school is more concerned with turning the girls into dutiful, supportive wives and mothers than freethinking career women (the only classes we ever see the girls attending are art history, Italian, table setting and synchronized swimming, not exactly a rigorous course of study for a bunch of young ladies we are led to believe graduate with some pretty impressive degrees).  Enter Katherine Anne, fresh from a state school in "liberal" California, who clearly does not buy into the false value system she finds here.  After some initial resistance on the part of the girls and the powers-that-be at the institution, Katherine begins, slowly but surely, to win people over to her modernistic, iconoclastic way of thinking.  
As a social document, "Mona Lisa Smile" is yet another film dedicated to exposing the "Stepford Wife" mentality of the conformist 1950's.  The problem is that "Far From Heaven" did a much better job of that two years ago.  In that film, the main character experienced a gradual awakening as to both her value as an individual and the societal prison in which she lived.  During the course of the film, we grew along with her.  Katherine, on the other hand, feels like a 21st Century woman transported magically to the 1950's.  Not that there weren't such forward-looking women at the time, of course, but it's not very illuminating watching a person, spouting ideas no one in the audience could possibly disagree with, bringing knowledge and enlightenment to the ignorant masses. The acting is good but the characters are all either shallow stereotypes or straw men designed for Katherine to knock down easily.  Ironically, the film is every bit as conventional as the conformity it's railing against.
Now that Ms. Roberts has gotten the Messianic Teacher Syndrome out of her system, perhaps she can move on to bigger and better things.  This particular hole in her resume has at last been filled.