Season 1 of the O. C. is touted as being the best, and while it was extraordinary, it didn't match up to the final season.  I struggled through season 2 and 3, watched it over and over, but found the storylines and characters dark and depressing.  Marissa's death was like a personal death in our family and I thought I, nor the series could never pull out of the darkeness.  But Season 4 was a true winner!  Autumn Reeser, Taylor Townsend, was transformed into a likeable, neurotic delight.  The best part was she knew she had problems.  My favorite line to Ryan was, when she set up Ryan , herself and Frank for Dinner, and said I know I am meddling, after I get this stalker issue resolved, that's what I am going to work on next.  You just loved her more and more with each episode. While her french husband was a bit of a distraction, there were some funny moments, like everytime she heard the word peaches, she clutched hers.  Ryan finally translating the french divorce documents was funny, and of course, him being the ultimate hero, saving her at the very last second from having to go back to that dianmal marriage in France.  The Peach torte reward  was amusing too.  And Kaitlin, Willa Holland, became a genuinely likeable character. Trying to capture her  little girl, just looking for love and stability. I love the scenes with her and Bullit.  He calling her squirt, and him letting her get the Ferrari purring, he'll be right out.Ping Pong, , so normal yet so bizarre.  Her Manipulation of this billionaire tycoon on how to woo her Mom was funny.  Ryan reached his potential as a Human and lost some of the defensive baggage he had in all the prior seasons. All 4 of them watching Meerkat Manor after Sandy slugged Frank was a classic Cohen moment.  Sandy and Kirsten are a true love story.  Sandy, the tough New Yawrker, and Kirsten the Belle of Newport, their chemistry never failed to entertain me.  I wish I had a marriage like that!  Season 4 was happy, funny and the witty quips just keep on coming.  So sorry it is gone, but my DVD's will live on.
Thanks O>C>

I hate getting emotionally invested in these series, because ultimately they end, always too soon, but this one was worth it.