I have tended to remember the disaster movies of the 1970's as a vein of the action movie genre, the latter being a series of explosions and special effects linked with episodes of sex and violence, and four word sentences.  Given my first hand experience with the seventies, I really wouldn't have thought I'd recommend any disaster movie to my worst enemy.  Then, a friend insisted we watch Airport.  I was so wrong.  This is not an action flick, as described.  Airport has vestiges of classic Hollywood, in its production values, and it's writing and direction. This is actually a movie!  It has a plot, which takes its time to develop (a bit unsettling for anyone who thought they'd pop it in and sort-of pay attention) and there are subplots.  There are a lot of characters, some of them young enough to make one realize that they were just starting out.  And then of course, there's Dean Martin as a pilot.  By the end of the movie you're no longer laughing at that idea.

The story begins with a plane stuck in the snow on a Nebraska runway (Minneapolis airport, actually) and another plane taking off for Rome (from Nebraska, in the seventies?).  There's a couple of failing marriages, politicians nervous over plane noise in the suburbs, Helen Hayes as a habitual stowaway, who, of course, stows away on THIS flight, and Dean Martin in love with a stewardess, played by Jacqueline Bisset, who of course is pregnant, and oh yes, there's a guy with a bomb in his brief case; and of course the bomb goes off, and the ONLY place the plane can land, is back in Nebraska.  Oh yeah, remember that stuck plane?

We thought the Soviet Union looked gloomy, in the seventies.  This film makes America look pretty gloomy.  Design seems an afterthought, although Edith Head did all the clothes, so everyone at least looks better than the rooms and terminals.  And boy does everyone seem so...adult, so grown up.  Such a short time ago, and yet a world away.

This is not a background film.  You'll have to dedicate the time, and its about two hours, to watch it.  But it's a good film, entertaining, with likeable and mostly believable characters.  I gave it three stars because it is a disaster film, and I just can't get myself to accept them as great cinema. But, I do like this film, and if you want action and romance, with a plot worth following, this will do it for you.