Jumping right into a Larry Clark film after watching something as mundane as the nightly news is a refreshing twist on an evening, I must admit.  I'm a fan of his earlier films "Kids," "Bully," and even the movie made after "Ken Park," "Wussup Rockers."  There's something about his ability to visualize a scene using young and underused actors that can hold it together and play a scene through to the end, especially when the scenes involve heavy, adult-themed concepts involving drugs or blatant sexual acts.  At times, as a viewer, you can question yourself watching these scenes, maybe pondering what this is doing for me by watching this?  And that's where I think this film falls flat.

The movie is nothing really but Clark getting his directorial-nut off by cleansing his mental-palate of these vignettes I'm sure he's always wanted to see in a film but never knew where they should go.  I kept thinking of Harmony Korine's "Gummo" through the entire viewing; these are obviously artfully-thought-out scenes that this director just conceptualized for the sake of their existence in one of their works.  I think it might be better if he stuck to one story like the rest of his works, but divide them up amongst the various groups, like Kids did, or even Bully.

The problem I have with the groups who have reviewed this film always point at the fact that this wasn't released here in the U.S. because it was sexually explicit and too real of an experience.  Sure it was sexually explicit, but I'm sure some art house would have released it if the film had a damn purpose behind the onscreen carnal experiments.  Personally I thought the scene ending out Kids was more shocking and devastating.  Clark himself responds to his films by saying "I'm trying to create a reality that makes sense."  I don't think this makes sense as a film.  It makes sense as individual paintings might make sense with what we're given, but as a film, you can't call it anything but absurd.

I gave the film 4 stars based on 5 stars meaning that I liked it.  I like mind-bending concepts in movies, but I like even more when it culminates into a movie that I want to watch time and time again.  I just didn't understand what he wanted to do with these scenes that he gives us to watch, it's like opening up someone's diary who you don't even know...it doesn't really mean a whole lot.