The movie and television industry of the late '60s tried to capitalize on the "Flower Power"/"Summer of Love"/"Drop Out-Counter Culture..." by basing entire projects on this new demographic, often with big budgets and big names: for example, the failed Preminger film "Skido", also from '68; the first season of the television show "Laugh-In", where psychedelia met the "Borscht Belt". Ofcourse, the result were usually poor and embarrassing. "I Love You, Alice B. Toklas!" has generally good writing and very good acting which elevates its' awkward or dated material, although the key scene involving his fiancee and parents's unwitting use of marijuana, as humorous as it is, even by today's entertainment standards is distasteful; likewise some ethnic and sexual orientation material which today would be inconceivable even for sitcoms. A particularly weak scene involves Sellers visit to Young's workplace, a mod Women's boutique. He still hasn't "come down" from the brownie interlude and shows up on an impulse. They flirt a bit until a male customer enters the shop. He is a masculine guy who shocks the giddy Sellers by asking to try on a dress. The reaction is uncontrollable laughter on Sellers' part, while Taylor-Young attempts to make the sale. There seems to be a lack of understanding on the creative end here because instead of TY asserting his "individuality", the hey-man-whatever-turns-you-on attitude of the era, she suggests to PS that the outfit might be for a masquerade party.
Despite the shaky foundation, Peter Sellers is astonishing as the "successful young Jewish lawyer" about to tie-the-knot. He gets his first real exposure to the Drop-Out folks while (trying to) attend a funeral during a limo drivers' strike - he takes control as chaffeur (in his Mechanic's son's "hippiemobile" he had to borrow) and meets his brother's girlfriend, played by Leigh Taylor-Young. She's the one who...bakes the brownies...and sends him reeling in self-discovery amidst new possibilities.
Joyce Van Patten is excellent as Seller's exasperated Secretary/Significant Other, whose we're-not-getting-any-younger attitude finally causes him to capitulate. Her character's amorous reaction to the Alice B. Toklas recipe is notable.
For every high there seems to be a low, however, and the ending is a case in point - the lawyer who seems to "come to his senses" following a party which goes haywire at his pad, unexpectedly retreats a second time from the marriage. On the one hand, going "straight" would have made for a bland wrap-up, but consider the idea that Van Patten could have turned the tables on *Sellers* by running off with his brother! [I guess we'll save that one for the imagined remake!].
Director Paul Mazursky, well-known for mild but memorable social satire in films like "Moon Over Parador", "Down And Out In Beverly Hills", and "The Pickle" always seems to get the most of out his actors even if the script needs work.
This 1968 release utimately survives by some terrific performances.