Alot can be said about Battlefield: Earth. Some good, some bad. Mainly bad is my opinion. All I can say is it could have been good if someone else directed and written this film. 
Roger Christian was the wrong choice. For some reason beyond me (and could helpfully be explained by Christian himself) he chose to shoot the entire film in Slant-O-Vision. A technique that good directors use to tilt their cameras for effect. Obviously Christian has no idea why but does it anyway. Its a distracting mistake that this film makes which almost makes the viewer tilt their head.
But thats what this film makes me do, tilt my head in awe. Its a low-rate film that looks like it was shot on a t.v. movie budget. Although with 80 million dollars, youd expect more than grubby special effects and lousy diolouge. It looks like Travolta is the only one having fun with their character. While the rest of the cast only appears for a favor. 
For sure, there must be alot of angry Scientologists out there for the mockery of this film and writer, L. Ron Hubbard. I am currently reading the book, which is far better than the film. 
Although the plot of the book is intriguing, the film somewhat presents a distilled version. Providing only the first half of the book. Surely Hubbards idea of his book translated into this is defninitely not what it deserves. It would have made an interesting film, having hiring someone else to write and direct it. 
With the $80 million they had, they would have at least provided better visual effects. But instead gave us obvious green screen effects and matte paintings. You'd think in the year 3000 that the Psychlos would use a bit more advanced technology than Radio Shack walkie talkies. 
The only thing I liked about the film was the score by Elia Cmiral. But the rest is a flop. If Christian's Cinematographer had sobered up and put the camera at a regular angle, this film would have been a little bit easier to look at. 
The trailers for the film looked like we were going to get an epic. How wrong they were.