Ostensibly, "Bobby" is supposed to be about the assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel in 1968. In telling that story, "Bobby" also tells the "stories" of 22 people who are all at the hotel for different purposes. "Bobby's" Robert Kennedy is portrayed by archived television footage and by a "body double" for some of the action at the Ambassador Hotel. The other 22 people are played by an ensemble cast including Emilio Estevez, who also directed the movie.

To call the other 22 people "characters" would be misleading. For one, they are fictional. In addition, they are not developed as characters but serve more as archetypes - for example, Christian Slater plays the racist archetype, Elijah Wood plays the young man conscripted to go to Vietnam archetype, Ashton Kutcher (of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CXS7">Dude, Where's My Car?</a> fame) plays the the counter-cultural druggie type,  Nick Cannon plays the simmering black rage archetype, etc. etc.

The problem with the movie becomes twofold - with such a large and unwieldy cast of archetypes, "Bobby" pushes Bobby Kennedy to the function of "backdrop" instead of the other way around. The second is, the viewer cannot engage and cannot care for an archetype.

This problems builds up to the climax of the movie when Bobby Kennedy is shot in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel. Throughout the buildup to the climax, the film cuts at various points from Bobby Kennedy archive footage, to its archetypes, to its Bobby Kennedy body double. When Bobby Kennedy is ultimately shot, Estevez goes overboard with quick cuts between archive footage and body double.

Here, "Bobby" commits an unpardonable sin. On June 5, 1968 when Senator Robert Kennedy was shot in the kitchen at the Ambassador Hotel, 5 other people were wounded - William Weisel of ABC News; Paul Schrade of the United Auto Workers; Democratic Party activist Elizabeth Evans; Continental News Service reporter Ira Goldstein; and Kennedy campaign volunteer Irwin Stroll. In "Bobby" 5 of the fictional archetypes are killed/wounded - the two archetypes who shirked their responsibilities to campaign for Robert Kennedy and, instead, dropped acid with the Ashton Kutcher archetype; the racist archetype played by Christian Slater; the unliberated woman archetype played by Helen Hunt; and, most telling, the conscripted young man archetype played by Elijah Wood. While in "real life" all five of the people wounded with Bobby Kennedy survived, in "Bobby," it is implied that the conscripted young man archetype dies and, it is VERY hard to miss the implication that because Sirhan Sirhan shot and killed Robert Kennedy, young men would be killed in Vietnam.

I call the event unpardonable because of the hubris involved in deleting REAL LIFE people in favor of these archetypes. How would you feel if you were William Wiesel watching this movie and instead of seeing yourself (or even some anonymous person) wounded in the kitchen, you see the racist archetype? If the assassination of Bobby Kennedy was such an important event, why trivialize it by replacing the real humans wounded and suffering with fake archetypes?  This is "dramatic license" gone haywire.

In making Bobby, it is clear that the intentions of Emilio Estevez were good. His head, on the other hand, was some place else.