After a bad day at work, from time to time I just put this in the DVD player and skip everything except the confrontations between Bill Foster (aka "D-fens"), a man who snaps for reasons revealed to us as the movie progresses, and the people who get on his bad side.  Abandoning his car in gridlock traffic, he marches across LA like a video game character, acquiring weapons and unleashing them on troublesome modern stereotypes all along the way.  His destination:  his daughter's birthday party (without an invite from his ex-wife).

Foster's anachronistic appearance (a nerdy, bespectacled engineer complete with white shirt and pocket protector) match his plight--the once powerful white American working man who can't move into the present and accept the changes that have taken away his power and control of the world around him.  Not that he is a racist.  He makes that clear during his confrontation with a real one.

Prendergast (the cop who is on the trail of D-fens), his basketcase of a wife, and his fellow cops are a complete annoyance, especially his ex-partner who's constantly trying to get him to jump into the sack with her.

Foster's ex-wife's unsympathetic telephone needling and admission to the police that he never actually hit her lead one to suspect there are two sides to their story and he has not entirely deserved losing his daughter.

The confrontation scenes are a bit contrived, never allowing anyone to intrude and interrupt or disrupt D-Fens's righteous speeches and violent actions against his antagonists.  The scene where he walks away from a carload of dead and dying punks after they've crashed their car trying to do a drive-by on him looks like he's walking off of a set because the girlfriend of one of the punks waits patiently on the curb until D-fens leaves before rushing up to the car hysterically.

The one person Foster encounters during his sojourn that I liked is the sarcastically sweet waitress at the Whammy Burger.  She's the only one behind the counter who doesn't lose her cool when D-fens pulls out the AK-47 or whatever it is because they won't serve him breakfast.  He certainly isn't the average jerky customer, and she's going to enjoy the moment, especially watching her idiot boss squirm as he is forced to deal with the situation.  She seems fascinated with D-fens, almost like she'd run away and join him on his rampage if he asked her to.

D-fens' only purely heroic act of the day is bashing in the face of the jerk yelling at the woman for cutting him off in the gridlocked traffic.  He probably killed him.  That's one I have to watch over and over again.  So's the scene where he cuts the phone booth to ribbons with the machine gun because the impatient jerk behind him mouths off at him for taking too long to finish using it.  Yes, I get a load of vicarious thrills out of watching this film, and I'm not ashamed to admit it.

The darkly hilarious scene where D-fens makes an old fart at the golf course regret not letting him walk through the fairway makes this my favorite golf movie.  I would gladly watch a four hour version of this film if D-fens spent all the additional time wreaking havoc and spreading panic all over the golf course, slipping a 4-iron and a pitching wedge into his bag of weapons, and climbing back over the fence, leaving the course to its onslaught of police helicopters, SWAT teams, ambulances and fire trucks.

Having far passed the point of no return by the end of the film, D-fens realizes he has lost the game and makes his most sensible decision of the day.

I would love to have seen a series of these movies.  "Falling Down 2," etc.  Just imagine how much fun D-fens could have while paying a Middle Eastern convenience store clerk $3.00 a gallon to (in his mind at least) subsidize terrorism, or shaking down a roofing crew for green cards and work visas.