The best part of this movie for me was the first half hour.
The hugely popular but superficial rock star played by Kristofferson is transfixed (as most viewers are) when he enters a small club after one of his concerts and hears Streisand sing.
Before he meets her, he is addicted to drugs and used to getting any girl he wants whenever he wants her.  He never has to work for anything.  His concerts are formulaic and uninspired, designed (as he puts it) to "give the fans what they want"... a series of meaningless stunts.
Streisand's character gives him something he can believe in.  Unlike his fans, she sees him for who he is, with all of his faults... and, unlike his fans, won't cater to his ego.

The best moment in this film comes when Kristofferson's character gets up on stage to perform, repeating the same lines he uses in every concert, and singing the same song he sings that he sings at the beginning of every concert.  Half way through the first song, he stops.  Over the objections of the audience and his manager, he brings Streisand out on stage, and urges her to take his place.  What makes this moment great is not just Streisand's voice, but the contrast between her performance and his, and Kristofferson's recognition that his own popularity is based on something that is no longer important to him.

After that moment, however, the film starts to go downhill.
Streisand's character falls hopelessly in love with Kristofferson for reasons that are never clear, and then asks him to marry her.  Why she suddenly falls for him I have no idea.  The entire dynamic between the two characters that is so entertaining in the first half hour is lost.  Kristofferson keeps trying to push her away.  He knows that he's no good for her... and he's right.

Watching her falling all over him again and again as he self destructs is tiring.  There's simply nothing appealing or likable about his character.  After awhile, you just don't care what happens to him anymore.

Streisand's performances, however, are certainly worth watching.  The scene in the recording studio (where she sings "Evergreen" to him) is classic.