This movie blew me away. I really enjoyed it and would recomend this all the way!
Note: This movie had a lot of twists and turns, and required you to do a little bit of thinking, so of course my dad came away with a feeling of confusion. This might be a movie you need to watch two times to get the true meaning of.
To start off, some of the futuristic ideas are just extrodinary, and seem very plausible. The futuristic cars (lexas) looked awsome, and like a design we could see in the near future, with the hydrogen fuel cell cars that is. Also, the way they had advertising.... it eaisly could be the wave of the future. And the way they have eye identification to personalize things... was another briliant idea. This movie could be stuided for all the futuristic content ALONE and be worth it.
Aside from this, it had a very good story. To sum it up, there is a person who works with the United States pre-crime department, and his job is to analyze data from 3 "precogs"(3 people who can forsee murders) and intercept the killer before they commit the crime. Later though, the precogs say that Tom Cruise is going to kill someone, so they are forced to arrest him, but he runs. This is when he learns that the precogs might have conflicting views, they might also view echo's(recurring visions), or they might have a minority report(a alternate ending to their vision, that is disregarded to ensure their system is 100% right). The whole story unfolds with twists and turns, characters seem to change right before your eyes. And it all leads up to the "murder scene", and then to the finaly story line, his farther is a murderer who "USES" the system to cover up his crimes.
The music is awsome, very well done.
The music along with the action scenes reminds me, a great deal, of Star Wars II... without the lightsabers of course, hehe.
The visual effects are stunning and keep the feeling that you are truly IN a futuristic film.
Also please note: there is killing, shooting, and blood, along with other crime related actions, so caution to those with children.
~Hope this helps