Doubt flet like a train wreck running in super slow motion. Within the first few moments it is clear what the story is about and, there is no doubt about what will happen. The only glimmer of doubt was how explicit would the director be in describing or showing what happened.

Details unfolded so slowly. This felt like a movies from the 20's or 30's or a Victorian novel. There was a different viewer dynamic; the director expected people to catch on slowly and fed the plot to the audience crumb by crumb.

Philip Seymour Hoffman and Meryl Streep are amazing actors. Mr. Hoffman is one of my favorites. He is very consistent with the role of Father Flynn. Meryl Streep on the other hand, gains and loses that New Jersey / Irish accent frequently throughout this movie. It's sad that Ms. Streep has never been able to maintain a single accent through a movie (Sophie's Choice the most notable). She is a powerful actress, and sometimes that minor inability can be overlooked with her performances. Amy Adams is sweet, and innocent as Sister James. It's a decent performance.

I am very sorry for being critical of this film. It really did not connect at all for me. The film is one hour and 45 minutes long. It is almost 45 too long. I think the real downfall was a poor script. Converting a play into a feature length film is a difficult process, what works on the stage rarely works on film; and vice versa. It seems the writer was just not up to the task. I know the Academy loved this film, and it has won many awards.

At a certain point, I also didn't much care what happened to any of the characters. The film did not develop a compasion or connection for any of the characters. We know, or think we know, what the priest did; so he is reprehensible. In fact the director makes him all the more awful with the drunken dinner scene juxtaposed against the Nun's serene silent meals. The principal was constantly remprimanding every child in the school; so no love there. The children all seemed to just float along however the wind was blowing. One would act up, another would be good, another would be a teacher's pet... but no real deep character development. Even Donald Miller, the child that is supposed to have been abused, we don't get anywhere near how he feels about things. The children are all just colors in some kind of flat painting. We develop some like or attachment to Sister James, but because she's having trouble with her class; or tormented about what she may or may not have seen. But she's not the central character of the film. I didn't care much of what happened to anyone in the film.

Technically, it's a decent job. There are about 6 angled shots where the camera is tilted 45 degrees for no particular reason. The tilt makes no sense at all. The sound was fairly flat. Thunder was about the only thing that delivered surround sound. The rest was all stuck in the front two channels. Dialog was clear. Pacing, this film is all over the map. There are so many framing errors and nonsense shots. It almost seems like they got the film in the can and then had to reshoot aimlessly.

So no, can't really recommend this one too highly. If somebody has no idea about the Catholic Church scandals, then maybe they would appreciate this film. Or the true Seymour Hoffman or Streep fanboy will have to watch this.