I am at a loss to understand why so many viewers are bashing this movie so rabidly.

I looked up the reviews before watching the movie; they were so overwhelmingly negative that I almost decided to return it to Big Lots and get my $3.00 back. Yet, having never seen an Uwe Boll's creation I was curious, and thought that at only $3.00 I wouldn't lose much. Also, it was supposed to be so incredibly pathetically awful that I became eager to discover this contender for " world's worst movie". In that respect I was sorely disappointed: Alone in the Dark is an honest B horror picture, and certainly hardly half as bad as purported to be by so many.

Certainly it is not on par with Alien, but in such a comparison the overwhelming majority of science fiction horror films fall short. As with most horror flicks, one should not expect a masterpiece of world cinema nor an Academy Award winner. Alone in the Dark is not a masterpiece and never pretends that it could ever be one, but it is certainly not an awful movie, nor even a bad movie in this genre. It works well for what it was supposed to do: provide 96 minutes of escapism.

Unlike many reviewers, I found Alone in the Dark coherent, never lacking in continuity, easy to follow and understand (but then I never needed Dune to be explained to me by a flyer!), suspenseful, fast-paced and attention grabbing; I was never bored a second.

The flashbacks illustrate adequately all connections with the past, and they are very intriguing in themselves. The close combat scenes are fascinating and perfectly choreographed. The creatures are quite impressive and disquieting if not absolutely original; one will also notice a definite Starship Troopers' influence in the combats between creatures and 713 agents, but it doesn't spoil anything. The sets are completely satisfactory and perfectly complement the action. The special effects are flawless and well worth being replayed several times. All of which is highly laudable when one remembers that it was a very modest budget movie. The twist and turns of the story, although not always unpredictable, work sufficiently well to let one go with the flow. The ending might leave some a little bewildered or unsatisfied, but it has its own logic and I respect that. This is a movie that some time from now I will watch again with pleasure.

The extras or special features are numerous and very interesting. I will be looking for other titles by Uwe Boll. I certainly do not regret having bought Alone in the Dark and not having let myself be deterred by the negative criticism; to amateurs of unpretentious honest horror B movies I would definitely recommend it.