Fracture, which came out on DVD this year, is an entertaining film that will intrigue the audience until all the secrets are revealed.  In the movie a young on-the-rise lawyer is given a murder case that is supposed to be a done deal.  The case is about an engineer who killed his wife and then signed a confession.  However, there is much more going on than what appears.

 The director, Gregory Hoblit, has directed other movies like "Hart's War", "Frequency", and "Fallen".  Most of his works deal with law enforcement and legal matters of some sort.

 The main actors are Anthony Hopkins (the criminal) and Ryan Gosling (the young lawyer).  Hopkins has played the role of the bad guy in many movies, most notably the role of Hannibal Lecter in "The Silence of the Lambs", "Hannibal", and "Red Dragon".  Ryan Gosling is most famous for his role in the movie "The Notebook".  He has also played in movies such as "Remember the Titans", and "Half Nelson".

 This film is an excellent example of a movie that will keep the audience guessing until the very end.  The manipulative power of the criminal in the movie is mind-boggling.  While the determination to prove himself by the young lawyer is a feeling that everyone can relate to.  The storyline of this movie is incredibly calculated.  The audience is given just enough information to make predictions about the outcome and what will happen to the characters.  This movie is more a battle of the mind and wits than of the sword.

 Hopkins does an excellent job playing the role of a mastermind who only appears to not have a plan.  Hopkin's ability to make the audience feel contempt for his character is unbelievable.  The words he uses, and even more, the way he says them has a way of making the audience have a great dislike for his character.

Gosling also does a fine bit of acting in the movie.  His role of a young lawyer who is on the rise is very believable.  He shows maturity throughout the film by his willingness to risk his future to do what he knows is right.

The movie rating is R for strong language and a couple scenes of violence that are not suitable for children.  This movie targets teenagers and adults who are looking for a good thriller with a twist ending.