As a huge fan of the manned space program, I recall being most anxious to see this film when it was released. I was somewhat disappointed, I suppose, at some of the historical inaccuracies in it. Alan Shephard's name wasn't withheld until the last moment, nor was John Glenn's flight ever scheduled for 7 orbits. (NASA controlers did inform Glenn that "he was go for at least 7 orbits." This however, only meant that his orbital trajectory was good enough to sustain, without correction, to last for 7 orbits. The flight was scheduled from the beginning, for 3.) But looking at the film from purely an entertaining point of view, I probably should have given it at least a four. I particularly enjoyed Scott Glenn and Dennis Quaid. And many other things were accurate...I believe NASA went ahead with the Atlas before they were comfortable in doing so. Probably the second riskiest thing NASA ever did was launch Glenn into orbit on top of the Atlas when they did. And the selection process was quite exhausting, to say the least. I enjoyed the scenes from early Edwards AFB, how all the Yeagers and Crossfields were in a tight little clique, and how hard it was for the new "hot dogs" to gain acceptance from them. Even though the movie was long, there was so much more that could have been dealt with. Scott Carpenter's flight would have been right up the alley for this movie. He was so enchanted with what he was involved in that he lost track of why he was supposed to be there and exhausted his fuel supply. Making a manual retro-fire, he missed his landing area by over 300 miles, and a nation was held captive to the television waiting for news on the fate of Carpenter. Wneh he was finally located, he was in his raft like he was on a Sunday afternoon trip down the local creek, wondering what all the fuss was over. If you're a stickler for detail, then a made-for-tv movie called "Moon Shot" many be more for you. But all in all, I enjoyed The Right Stuff enough that I bought it for my collection.