Anyone who thinks that there is some sort of moral ambiguity in this movie is completely delusional and semi-brainwashed. Despite all the comparisons to Bush and Cheney that exist in the movie, lets face facts, the regime in this movie was a Nazi style government which is much worse than the Bush Administration, and that takes a lot of hard work and determination. This was no pseudo-democracy, it was outright fascist dictatorship with no civil or political rights. Englishmen have revolted and overthrown kings twice in their history for crimes that pale in comparison to the crimes of the regime in this movie. America was founded in a revolution that is considered glorious, against a regime that was nothing compared to the one in this movie in terms of evil. And yet the absurd debate goes on, should V have done what he did? Is he a freedom fighter or a terrorist? IS V A TERRORIST??? If that is the question you come away with after watching this movie you truly are brainwashed, the question you should come away is how a terrorist regime like the one in the movie could achieve power and sustain itself. They are the real terrorists, not V. Again I ask what else V could have done? Submit or fight are the only options! There comes a point in the most radical regimes where peaceful protest is punished by death, then what? Submission or fighting is the only choice! There was no alterative to what V did except submission. And to those who would say that peaceful measures should have been followed and glorified instead of violent resistance. you are living in a fantasyland. Tanks in China crushed the pro-democracy movement of peaceful protest in, remember? Do you think peaceful protests would have stopped Hitler? If you think V is a terrorist for seeking to overthrow a fascist, racist regime that had killed 100,000 of its own citizens to guarantee its power, and experimented on V himself in twisted fashion, then you must also think that every partisan group that fought the Nazi's in occupied Europe was a terrorist too, that is certainly what the Nazi's said at the time. So therefore if you buy into V being a terrorist, or even if you try to equate V with the government in this movie, instead of seeing that the true terrorists were the fascist regime that started everything to begin with, you are thinking like a Nazi and identifying with the regime instead of with the person resisting the regime. It is not ok to fight against Nazis anymore, to stand up to them? If you stand up to Nazis you are a terrorist? Then the French Resistance was a terrorist organization and the Nazi's were the victims? Or there was some sort of moral equivalency between the Nazi's and the French Resistance just because they both killed one another? Such a contention is patently absurd, the Nazi's started the war and the killing and the only way to stop them was to kill them. V was in the same position in this movie. Sometimes you have to fight, sometimes the evil men have to be killed. We all know this to be true, there can be individual terrorists but there can also be terrorist states, just because a government exists and has power does not automatically give it some sort of moral high ground. Men who felt as V did killed Nazis in World War 2 and the world is better off because of it. That is a fact. Even Bush supporters know that some governments are no good and need to go, and supporting revolutionaries in those countries can be a good thing. What about Sloban Milsoviec? They should not have had a revolution and overthrown him? Complete submission and a total abdication of any willingness to fight is simply a recipe for success for despots like Hitler. America's founding fathers knew this, and it is simple common sense. Sometimes Revolution is necessary, sometimes the government itself is the problem. Coming away from this movie disturbed by V's actions more than you are disturbed by the governments actions shows you have crazy priorities. If you should not rebel against a Nazi style regime that kills its own people, strips them of all rights, experiments on them, then when should you rebel? Apparently never, no matter what. I suppose that there should also be a debate about rather or not V should have blown up the camp where he was being experimented on in order to escape. Obviously V should have just submitted to the medical experiments, blowing up the facility and saving his own life as well as stopping the sick experimentation that was being perpetuated on him was obviously a terrorist act, since the camp was state property, and whatever the state does it is automatically right, all the time, forever, and we should NEVER,NEVER, NEVER, EVER resist, EVER!! Give me a break! V was no terrorist, the true terrorists were the people he got rid of. Not everything can be solved by talk and peaceful protest, that is a lie you are taught to make you submit. Even if you do not agree with me at least ask yourself this question, if V was not right to start a revolution in the circumstances he was in this movie, then when is it right? Is revolution always bad no matter what? How bad does it have to get before resistance is ok? When can you resist, what has to happen to make resistance ok? If we followed the philosophy of those who think is a V a terrorist any semblance of modern democracy as we know would never have existed, it did not just happen, people had to fight for it. People have forgotten this, cowardice and submission to authority does not equal patriotism and virtue. If you do not believe me, find out what the founding fathers or those who fought against Nazism had to say. If they did not fight, injustice and evil would have reigned more supreme than it eventually did anyway. Sometimes violence is necessary and justified, we all know this. WAKE UP!!!!!