Neither good nor bad.

The questions about trust and intimacy are far more interesting than the script, which is banal, boring, and without a single interesting quote. This is not enjoyable or memorable dialogue, like that in Before Sunset or Closer. The performances are not bad, but the actors have nothing to work with. The direction is uninteresting too. In this case, "indie" means simple like a basic t-shirt from The Gap. I should disclose that I'm not a fan of anybody in the cast (whereas I am a fan of most everybody in Before Sunset, Closer, and We Don't Live Here Anymore). The way Knightley smiles by sort of clenching her teeth kind of annoys me (I liked Never Let Me Go, but despite Knightley). Anyhow, the desire isn't even palpable. This may be one of the least sexy, scintilating films about infidelity ever. It's very pedestrian. Mainly, however, the problem is the writing. It's not realistic. In real life, people's speech is more lively and referential. Overall, this type of writing is an attempt to be "realistic" in a way that isn't actually realistic.

Full disclosure: I turned it off after an hour.

Also, I used to be an English professor, which doesn't mean I'm smarter than other people, but it does mean I've spent my life watching "deep" films, art films, and foreign films. This film is very bad, compared with all the good arthouse/indie films out there. It might seem refreshing and deep (and artistic), if you are accustomed to watching Vin Diesel movies. But it is also true that, if you eat at Burger King a lot, Olive Garden will seem like fine dining. However, If you're accustomed to eating at 3 and 4 star restaurants in NYC, Olive Garden seems like fast food. Anyway, to make the analogy, this movie is to really good arthouse/indie films what Olive Garden is to Gramercy Tavern.

Nobody over thirty-five with a grad school degree will really like this movie.

For the record, while Blue Valentine wasn't on the same topic, it was a better movie (even though it wasn't a masterpiece).

It may all depend on how much you like Knightley. I don't understand her popularity. I like Winslett, Blanchett, and Beckinsale. I like Carey Mulligan too.