Filthy in spots, like the after-orgy water in a hot tub with a broken filter. Don't go in if you can avoid it, but if you must, bring a towel and some Dawn, because afterward you'll immediately want to cleanse off the muck. Everything about this film is non-subtle, from the clunky expediency with which the characters are transported into the past to the almost pornographic man-on-man love scene halfway through the movie. In two cases this movie would be porn except for the camera angles.

At the beginning of the film we see that each of the adults has a life problem. (The kid's problem -Jacob, played appealingly by Clark Dude--is that he has no life: he spends all his time in the basement living vicariously as a character in Second Life.) Adam (John Cusack) comes home to find that his wife has just left him. Nick (Craig Robinson) works as a dog groomer, when he wanted to be a singer. And Lou (Rob Corddry) has just attempted suicide by running his car's engine in his garage. In order to cheer him up, Adam and Nick pick Lou up from the hospital and take Lou back to Kodiak Valley Ski Resort where they had some of the best times of their lives. Jacob is dragged along against his will. He not only would rather get back to Second Life, but he and Lou hate each other.

At the lodge, they're in the hot tub, when someone spills a "Chernobly" energy drink onto the controls of the hot tub and they are transported back to 1986. The questions will be: Can Adam make a better choice in women? Can Nick do something now that will help him to avoid his fate as dog's butt washer and henpecked husband? Can Lou use his knowledge of the future to figure out a way to make money? (He's thinking along the lines of combining Twitter and Viagra.) Can they get their one remaining can of Chernobly back, which the patriotic ski boys think is some new kind of Russian energy. And since this is the weekend that Jacob was conceived, can he keep an eye on his slutty mom (Collette Wolfe), see who she was hanging out with, and find out who his father is? Did I mention that he and Lou hate each other? (This may seem like a spoiler, but only a toddler wouldn't see it coming the minute it's mentioned early in the film.)

Going back to 1986 gives the filmmakers plenty of opportunities to show leg warmers and kids with weird hair styles. Sadly, someone should inform them that this alone does not constitute humor. And neither does watching lots of BJs (including male on male), fake ejaculate on faces, banging a mother as her son looks on, and so forth. I was surprised that the film makers restrained themselves enough to stop just short of any shots of penetration. Maybe the actual acts are captured on the bonus materials. It's obvious that the filmmakers' talents would be better served with careers in porn.

The one redeeming element of the film was a running gag with Crispin Glover as the porter at the lodge. When we first see him in the present he's missing an arm and has the worst (funniest) attitude as, with his one arm, he tosses the gang's luggage all over the floor then holds out his one hand for a tip. Presumably he can get away with this because, what, you're not going to tip the disabled guy? But when the gang goes back into the past, they see that he has both arms. How'd he lose his arm? This becomes a running gag, with close calls throughout the film. But like everything else in this movie that is so blunt, when the moment finally comes, it's ruined as Lou unbelievably jumps up and down in celebration. Right.

Chevy Chase has a very bland role as the hot tub repairman. If only he could have been plucked out of one of his 80's movies, maybe there would have been a laugh in one of these scenes.

2 stars (out of 5) (Generosity due to the Crispin Glover bit.)