The late Ayn Rand was the supreme proof of George Orwell's comment that only intellectuals can come up with certain ideas, because no ordinary person could be so stupid. This film, which is, quite simply, the most unintentionally funny movie I have ever seen,is valuable only because it shows clearly why so many people who ranted (her name really should have been Ayn Rant)about the (very real) horrors of Communism in the years after World War One eventually wound up snugly in the grasp of Herr Schicklgruber and his little elves. (And, yes, I know that Rand wasn't herself a Nazi; she just played one in print -- and here, on screen.) Cooper's architect is an embodiment of the way Hitler saw himself: a Promethean creator, rejected by the Establishment that didn't know a genius when it saw one.It's hard to know which of the film's many inanities is the choicest. The idea that a "yellow"(i.e.,tabloid)newspaper could get the masses of New York worked up into a riotous frenzy over -- ARCHITECTURAL STYLES????? The proposition that, even after years of getting high-profile commissions, Cooper is STILL helplessly at the mercy of unfeeling mediocrities, who can kill off his entire career with one press release? The notion that one can be put on trial for the crime of not following mass taste?(In AMERICA????? -- where the biggest problem has always been ESTABLISHING a tradition, not breaking free of one.)And, of course, like any good fascist, Miss Rand never concerns herself with corny old concepts like right and wrong. ("Beyond Good and Evil", doncha know.)Cooper actually DID commit the act of vandalism for which he is tried; yet his acquittal is treated like a triumph of justice(presumably because no one Miss Rand cared about happened to get caught in that explosion he set off).And the homosexual subtext of this film -in the relationship between Cooper and his former enemy the publisher-is nothing short of hilarious.(When the boys plan their around-the-world cruise together, you don't need to wait for the dialogue to tell you that Patricia Neal won't be coming along).Finally, what makes this whole enterprise even wackier is that Rand doesn't even have the consistency of her own idiocy. The idea that a man like Cooper - proud, rugged, the ultimate loner- would allow a no-talent rival, WITH HIS BLESSING, to take one of his most prized concepts and pass it off as his own makes utter nonsense of everything we have been shown up to that point.In sum, if you want to do justice to "The Fountainhead", invite over any Patrick Buchanan and David Duke supporters you may happen to know, put some bratwurst on the grill, pop this gem into the VCR, and have a ball.