While I was disappointed with the tone and direction (and especially the ending) of this documentary, there is still some worthwhile material here -- notably the extended, supplemental interviews with Sam Harris, Alan Dundes, Robert M. Price, and the Earl Doherty commentary track.

As many reviewers have already said, the director did indeed come across like an angry young man with an ax to grind, so it was very fitting when Robert M. Price indirectly addressed that very matter. Here's a sample from that interview:

Brian Flemming: Do you think it's possible to be an Atheist and a Christian?

Robert M. Price: Oh, yeah. I kind of think I am one. Because I think it's category confusion to think of God as an external entity like the moon orbiting the earth. There's no God out there in that sense. In Psalm 22 it says that God is enthroned upon the praises of His people. Well I don't know what was in the mind of the writer but I love that phrase, because that is where God is. God is a function of worship and of religious experience. If you can show, as you probably can, that all religious experience comes out of the temporal parietal lobe of the brain, that's fine with me. I'm not trying to prove anything. I'm simply saying there is such a thing as wholesome religious experience that does not beg historical or scientific questions.

BF: So I've asked every Atheist I've interviewed this: Why do you hate Jesus?

RMP: I don't at all, in fact I fear Atheists have a kind of Dracula response. They have a kind of superstitious fear of Jesus [which] strikes me as neurotic and paranoid. What is the problem with Jesus? We're not talking about Hitler. What's the problem with the Bible? There's a lot of barbaric stuff as you would expect in an ancient mythical book, but it's not _Mein Kampf_; it's not _The Satanic Bible_. There's just a kind of superstitious phobia. A lot of Atheists have emerged from a lot of abusive religious experiences, and I'm glad they got out of it, but they now have a kind of over-reaction, it seems to me, like somebody who was in an abusive relationship and will no longer risk having relationships or commitments anymore. You're just cutting off your nose to spite your face.

BF: If you don't have faith in supernatural events and you don't believe, I assume, in an afterlife and heaven and hell and all that, what is religion for?

RMP: It's to enrich this life along the lines Aristotle said drama is, in fact all drama grows out of religion. It's a laboratory in which you create catharsis -- the cleansing of the soul of pity and terror by means of pity and terror, I think was his definition, although not necessarily terror but there is a sense of awe in the spectacle of the myths that are acted out and joined in by way of rituals and sacraments. It is essentially dramatic and aesthetic in nature. But that's not to downplay it. As Tillich said: One shouldn't say it's merely a symbol -- Oh no! no! What do you think a symbol is? Say _no less than_ a symbol! If Jesus did actually rise from the dead and you had it on video tape, what would be the spiritual meaning of that if that is where it ended? Why would that be any different than getting footage of a UFO or the Abominable Snowman? It has to communicate something spiritually because of a symbolic dimension, and if it does that, if it functions as a symbol, it doesn't really matter how it started, as a factual report or a myth.