I wanted to like this film. The reviews I read about it weren't very optimistic but I don't believe everything I read. Unfortunately, this time the reviewers were correct.

The Dying Gaul is a sensationalistic look at people that, quite frankly, disgusted me. I am not talking about sexual preferences here. These people were disgusting for so many reasons, none of which had to do with sexual preferences. I can stomach characters that are unsavory if there is a common sense perspective given their actions. In this film, however, the characters are revealed as decent people who make mistakes. Nope. They are all creeps.

In the plot of the film the writer of the screenplay gets emails from what he believes to be his dead lover. What is up with that? This is an educated person. He was able to create a complete screenplay so his use of language must be above average. Yet, to believe a dead person would communicate with the living - through emails, no less - is not something even your average person would fall for. Yes, there are relationship facts that are given in the emails but he confided facts to the person that is the one sending the emails.

The plot of the film gets even more laughable - yes, I found myself laughing at this movie - when the old Medea plot line came into play. And, I'm referring to the Greek Medea, not the African-American one. Although, HER films are at least entertaining!

The acting in this movie was not as good as others have said. Sarsgaard is the most annoying. In some scenes he has a pronounced lilt to his speaking voice as an attempt to sound "gay." In other scenes he speaks normally. I found this very distracting. As for Campbell Scott, he gives the same performance I've seen him give in other films. He isn't a bad actor but he's no Paul Newman. Of them all, Clarkson is the best.

The Dying Gaul is a pretentious project that is insulting to gays and Buddhists. Yes, Buddhism plays a role in the film, too. If you want to see a gay film go for Brokeback Mountain. If you want to see a movie that will, in time, prove to be one of those wonderful films that provokes gales of laughter because it is so unintentionally funny, watch The Dying Gaul. Just be prepared to learn more about the specifics of gay sex than you probably want to know.