Let me first start by saying that all in all this was a pretty good movie; and all things considered i probably would have loved it, save for the fact that I've already seen this movie before when it was called 'CUBE' (a movie on DVD about a bunch of strangers put into a maze filled with traps, where they have a small amount of time to escape before they die, and to make things worse.. one of the people with them is slowly turning into a murderous psychopath... oh and i forgot, the exit of both movies is found in a sequence of hidden numbers).

Anyway, in SAW II you are taken on yet another venture into the sadistic sociopathic mind of John 'The Jigsaw Killer' and we get to see small bits behind the mind of the madman (check out http://rebirth.saw2.com/rebirth/ for a brief cartoon about how he became what he is today). One of the low points in this movie that i enjoyed more in the first was there was a great deal more character development in the prisoners than there was in this movie, and if you pay real close attention (check to see who isn't coughing up blood in the house and ask yourself why) you might just be able to piece together the shocking ending.

Now a brief note to the members of LIONS GATE and Twisted Pictures..... OK we the many Fans of SAW get the picture... Yea Yea we all waste moments in out lives and probably deserve a good kick in the can for it..... I mean heck i probably should be out feeding orphan kittens right now rather than writing this review right? We get the idea now here's a few for you...Either take this franchise in another direction, end it here in SAW II or end it in a trilogy. I mean the 'we aren't grateful for our lives thing' can only stay fresh for so long.  I mean in SAW III Jigsaw could put a whole city to a test of life or death to save themselves after pumping poison in the water supply. Or maybe someone can give him a taste of his own medicine putting him to the test in a challenge where the prize would be the cure to cancer. But to those of you in charge of this franchise please don't murder this movie (with endless pointless sequels that bastardize a once unique concept) just so you can line your pockets with money.

Sorry for that rant, bottom line is the movie is pretty good and clearly worth watching unless of course you've seen 'CUBE' in which case you've already seen SAW II you just don't know it yet. This movie stays true to the original and overall is a quality sequel (especially compared to most horror movie sequels). And there was something else i meant to tell you..... Oh Yes........There will Be Blood.