The initial "Fatal Attraction" film, "Play Misty For Me" is loads better than this.  This film is not without its merits however.  Fine performances by the leads and taut direction with no lulls in the plot!  Glenn Close appears very unattractive in this film (but then again, she isn't very attractive especially with that tangled hair).  She looks like a psycho.  One cannnot understand the motivation behind Douglas's character sleeping with her....especially when he has the gorgeous Anne Archer as his wife!!  What man in HIS right mind would want to cheat on someone like her???  There is nothing in the script to justify his infidelity.  This makes the story less plausible than it could have been, unlike "Play Misty" which involves a single man with a one night stand that went terribly awry.  The ending packs a wallop with Douglas, Archer and Close in the bathtub sequence.  It would have been helpful though to find out if Close was really pregnant or not.  Psychos are pathological liars and will say anything to further their own purposes.  Close succeeds brilliantly on all counts and is a great villainness.  The screenplay hits another snag in the sequence where Close (Alex) kidnaps the little girl and takes her to the amusement park.  There is nothing to show how this is built up?  Does she just show up at the school and take the child?  The child would be terrified and there would be cause for concern...unless there was no one around, which is highly unlikely.  Or does she show up at the school and beguile the little girl with a story of how she is her mother's friend and her mother asked her to pick her up and take her to the amusement park.  None of this is shown.  All we see is Close and the little girl riding around in a rollercoaster, the little girl having the time of her life, not the least bit afraid.  This would have been all right if it had been properly set up, but it wasn't.  Also, if I knew there was pyscho threatning my family I would have warned my child to not talk to any strangers!!  This is where the plot falls flat.  Plus, didn't home security systems exist in 1987????  Or did they just forget to lock their doors when they went to the grandparents house and Close snuck in and started the rabbit stew??  Totally unbelievable.  That's why this film merits only 3 stars from me.