I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The more I think about it, the more I like it. It was a dark story, with torture and death, but there is more to it. It, as many other reviewers have said, makes you think. It asks the question of "How far is too far?" and "Do the ends justify the means?". The film is very good and I would suggest it for anyone who enjoys films with deeper meanings, such as No Country for Old Men and others. This is the end of my Spoiler-free review. For more in-depth reflections on the film that might ruin the story, read below.

The story begins with a man introducing himself as Steven Arthur Younger to a video camera. You soon find out that this man is, in fact, the terrorist that pushes the whole plot forward. He claims to have set 3 nuclear bombs in 3 different cities across the United States. Upon receiving this tape, the government goes into a frenzy, trying to find this man and his bombs.

You follow a woman named Helen Brody, a special agent for the FBI. She enters the story with her tracking potential terrorists. She finds out about Younger from the television news that is turned on in her office. She demands to know who authorized it and is told that it is classified, but that she will be briefed about it. The FBI steps up all of its terrorist tracking, and this is when Henry Harold Humphries enters the story. When FBI Agents arrive to question him, he calls a mysterious man, who then calls Agent Brody, ordering her to back off and saying that Humphries is "extremely dangerous" and should not be approached. Humphries, later known simply as "H", turns out to be a special "interrogator" (read torturer) for the government. He is called in to get the bombs' locations from Younger by any means necessary. Agent Brody attempts to help Mr. Younger, who she promises that she will rescue from the "illegal" behavior and detention. The deeper part of the film begins to kick in around here. When H first begins to torture him, everyone is up in arms. Up to this point, they have stuck to relatively calm means of interrogation, the worst of which is hosing him with cold water for extended periods of time. The first thing H does is chop off the tip of Younger's pinky finger on his right hand with a small ax.

When he does this, he is promptly pulled from the room by the soldiers near him and verbally reprimanded. He responds by saying that it is the only way that will work and that, since younger doesn't exist, it is legally allowed. When the highest in command available OKs the actions, most of the people back off. Brody, however, still fights for Younger. As the film progresses, the torturing gets worse and wors, but Agent Brody's reaction to it is lessened and lessened. At one point, after a bomb explodes at a shopping mall, killing 53 people, she, albeit briefly, takes a knife to him. After this, H becomes more and more sadistic with his torturing, insisting that it must be taken up several notches to get the information. When torturing him is not enough, he decides that they need to use his wife to try and get to him. Agent Brody begins to interrogate her, but is convinced that it should be done in front of Younger. Under the premise that nothing will happen to the wife, she allows H to take her into the torture room. When this method proves ineffective, they begin to escort her from the room. H, however, wants to torture her in front of him to break him down faster. When they refuse to let him, he quickly spins and slits her throat, killing her for the sole purpose of upsetting Younger.

The torturing continues afterwards, as the information is too important to waste their best interrogator to a murder trial. H begins to talk to Younger about winners and losers. As Humphries sees it, it is not "H vs. Younger", but "Victory and Defeat". The title of good, however, goes to the victor as they are the ones who write the history books. Specifically, he says "there's only victory and defeat. The winner gets to take the moral high-ground, because they get to write the history books. The loser... just loses". This introduces the viewer to the idea that nothing that there is no good, but only winners who wrote that they did the right thing. Another point to consider is the question of "How far is too far?"... The estimates for casualties is in the millions, so is torturing one man acceptable? If that is, how about his wife? is torturing and/or killing the people he loves, who may or may not have anything to do with the plot, OK because it will save other people's lives?

To further that question, the story takes another, final, sick twist: Younger's children are brought into the equation. Once again under the premise of non-violence, they are put into the torture room while Younger is situated out side to watch. He screams, giving of a stream of expletives but also giving the FBI the locations of the bombs. they knew where one of the bombs is, so they know that he is giving out legitimate addresses. H, however, proposes a new idea: a 4th bomb. This completely unfounded guess brings the question of "how far is too far" to the front, as they must decide: torture 2 innocent, small, helpless children in front of their father just to cover their bases, or not and choose to let a 4th bomb detonate, potentially killing millions. In the end, the entire question is dropped on the shoulders of Agent Brody, who has the option of dragging the children in and strapping them down to do "unthinkable" things in the name of maybe saving an unknown number of people, or saving the 2 and instead putting the masses at risk. She chooses the latter, walking out with the 2 children in her arms to watch the sky/cityscape as the time counts down to noon (the time the bombs are going to detonate). The film, unfortunately, cuts out before we can know the ending. This was obviously done to underscore the question. by not giving a definite yes or no to whether she made the right decision, we are stuck pondering what we would have done in the same circumstances.

It is a very good movie, and even if you've read this before watching the movie, you still should watch it. It is well worth the couple of dollars to rent, and is a captivating film.