There are few movies today that are worth seeking out. American Movie is one of them. With a completely true story (very loosely describal as "Ed Wood" meets "This is Spinal Tap" meets  "Crumb"), filmmakers Chris Smith and Sarah Price have captured  and perfectly presented a slice in the lives of some truly memorable  characters. By the end of the film, the audience is not only enormously  satisfied and entertained, but feels as though they truly have met new  friends. The audience I saw this with went wild, particularly during Mike  Shank's (you could not write a funnier or more endearing character)  screaming scene. Those who want to enter filmmaking for a living should be  required to view this, as it shows Mark Bochardt persisting through pitfall  after pitfall to finally complete his horror opus "COVEN" (I  would buy the DVD just to see this short film). We can only hope that his  dream project "Northwestern" will one day see the light of day.  "American Movie" has drawn comparisons to "Roger &amp;  Me", though I find the former far funnier, as Chris Smith wisely  allows his subjects to do all the talking (whereas Michael Moore's film  relies on his narration, while quite amusing, for much of the laughs).  Indeed, we only hear Smith perhaps a half dozen times through the film, as  Bochardt is never at a loss for words. It's not very surprising that  "American Movie" was not even nominated for the Best Documentary  Oscar, neither were the best "fiction" films of the year (in my  opinion), "Being John Malkovich" and "The Straight  Story". It's just further evidence in the case that the Oscar doesn't  mean jack. "American Movie" is all ready a classic, however, and  will continue to have a special place in film history. It's a shame that  this film didn't get the kind of wide release that Adam Sandler movies get,  because I truly believe that once word spread audiences would flock to see  it. Anyway, I have planned well in advance to purchase the DVD, as it is a  film to be cherished by all those who love movies.