What can I say about this film? "Serious" Burroughs  fans tend to exercise their credentials by panning it,  more often than not, while serious fans of Mr.  Cronenberg's work are totally rewarded for their  willingness to follow him on his seamless  hallucinogenic visions. 
  So who is right? The film fans, of course. Naked  Lunch, the "novel," is not filmable in any sense of the  word. There is no way any screen adaptation could  ever meet the work's fans expectations or private  interpretations. So the film should be judged on its  own merits, as an audio-visual presentation (much  as Apocalypse Now! is not to be narrowly  considered as an adaptation of Conrad's Heart of  Darkness). As a work standing on its own is how this  picture truly shines, of course. 
 As the beautiful 1950's period-piece titles float over Ornette Coleman's wonderful score, you know you are in for a treat. Like Sting's chuckle at the beginning of "Roxanne," it is an effortless expression that this one is going to be great, so relax. 
 The characters are wonderfully stylised icons of 50's artistic bohemian life. Struggling to get by, pursuing their writing and their personal proclivities without concern for mass acceptance (or even legality), trying to cope on the fly with the chaos bred by the passions that unravel and disorganise their lives, they each exude at their core a powerful need to be themselves. 
 We hop on this ride as "flies on the wall" (sorry, I really could not help that!) observing one William Lee (Peter Weller), at a point where he has fooled himself into thinking that he is leading a nice, normal life. He has a wife, Joan (Judy Davis), and a steady job catering to New York City's happiest inhabitants, the ever-present insect population. But nothing stays simple for Lee for long. He follows Joan in her development of a taste for the intravenous consumption of his bug powder, until the supply dries up. In his attempts to figure out a way to "kick," or at least survive withdrawal painlessly, a mysterious Dr. Benway provides him with a substitute that will make him "lose his taste for the bug powder all together." 
 At this point more chaos enters his life in the form of his accidental shooting of his wife. On the run from the law for drug use and probably murder, he travels far, far, away to a place we know as Interzone, which while styled as a "notorious free port on the coast of North Africa," retains a remarkable similarity to the New York underbelly in which he already lives - to the point where his concerned friends ("just finish your book, Bill, then come back to us") are only a bus ride away. He is quite obviously also on the run from himself, as well. His writings, his hallucinogenic "reports" on his trip, are what are to become his book, Naked Lunch, although he denies all knowledge of its creation ("nothing that a reasonably well organised cabal could not put together," probably misquoted at this point). 
 Lee spends an indeterminate time in Interzone, wrestling with his drug use, which has moved on to the "true black meat of the Brazilian aquatic centipede," his sexuality ("homosexuality is the best all around cover an agent can have"), and his writing - wrought highly visible in this incredible film by the series of typewriters with personalities, needs, and benefits all of their own. 
 He ultimately seems to be on his way to escaping his Interzone, with the recently liberated Joan Frost (also played by Judy Davis), for the neighboring Ataxia (sp.?) but as he is being accosted at the border and asked to prove that he is a writer... the film loops in on itself and once more, he finds himself inexorably writing the same story. He can run and hide behind the fog of drugs, sexual escapism and outrageousness, and over the edge writing, but he cannot escape the realities of his life. 
 In this film the attempt to live in one's own created reality is examined so realistically you almost forget that the lead character is hallucinating most of the time. The recreational pharmaceuticals, the sexual experimentation, and the drive to create are limned in an incredibly clear and valid way - as is their downside, the pitfalls inherent in experimenting on oneself against the narrow confines of "conventional wisdom." It is an excellent guidebook and companion piece to anyone struggling with issues such as these in their own life...