This is a military trial drama.  When dire actions occur under tinderbox cirmcumstances, the President has a public relations nightmare and needs a scape goat.  The scape goat gets his retired buddy to reluctantly come out off retirement to defend him.
While I found this movie to be entertaining, I don't know that I'll watch it again except to discuss it with my 15 year old son in order to get his take on some of the issues covered in the movie. The issues of patriotism, defending those who depend on you, doing the right thing and how to get out of things that are over your head, are important issues that are addressed in this movie, they're just not addressed that well. 
It doesn't take an avid JAG viewer (not that I am one nor am I an attorney) to realize that if the movie shows you what happened and why, but there is no corroborating evidence and there are prosecution witnesses who are lying, then you discredit the "bad guys'" testimony. This should have been of prime benefit to the defense, but doesn't happen here.
This movie reminds me of a theme I find in many other movies as well as books. The management characters only care about their careers and are willing to step on the backs of the hump characters to whom they owe unpaid gratitude for the efforts that management takes credit for. Cynical yes, accurate, probably, overdone definitely. It's an unfair world, let's get over it and produce works that shed more understanding on those characteristics in the human condition and human spirit from which we can benefit. I see no reason to constantly remind ourselves how unfair life can be.
The acting was quite good given the lack of depth the actual characters are forced to portray in this movie. The actions of all the bad guys are predictable and so are those of the good guys.
The burning question, on which the justification for the accused's actions hang, is whether or not there was gunfire from the crowd on the street. It seems to me analysis of the bullet holes in the soft masonry walls of the embassy would indicate trajectory and therefore prove or disprove the accused's claims. If you stick your finger in a bullet hole in the wall and your finger is pointing up at an angle not horizontally, and there are a substantial number of those holes, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to solve that mystery. A second question is why the ambassador was not required to prove he was the one to remove the American flag when he evacuated the embassy as he said he did.
The ending was anticlimatic and therefore a let down and the epilogue on the screen explaining the fate of the bad guys seemed more like a lame afterthought than it was helpful. Had it been a true story, I might have been interested, as it was just pleasant fiction, I could care less. Except. . . . the story behind how the bad guys were found out in the epilogue text, might have been a better story.