Director Sam Fuller's Shock Corridor is one of those wildly aberrant works of art than can be called great, on some levels, and utter schlock, on other levels. And both are correct assessments of this film that can only be termed a didactic melodrama. What results, though, is that one is left with a so-so film- not the piece of pulp garbage that many reviewers first assailed the black and white film (with dream sequence snippets in color) as, upon its release in 1963, nor the masterpiece that revisionists have proffered in later auteur-based assessments. It had been almost a quarter century since I last watched the film, but recently popped in The Criterion Collection DVD of the film, and rediscovered its `charms.'
On the positive side, the cinematography by Stanley Cortez (who did The Magnificent Ambersons and Night Of The Hunter) is first rate, often with experimental shots and angles, and good edits that are reflexive, yet bold. The use of close-ups veers between the pedestrian in back and forth dialogue exchanges, to the horrid, in close-ups of even minor characters.... one just has to love Fuller. Who else but he would append to the start and end of the film, this epigraph?: `Whom God wishes to destroy, he first turns mad.'- Euripides (425 BC). Was Fuller a great screenwriter or film director? No. But, if you understood what drove him, you could appreciate how he wrung the most out what little he had to work with; something megabucks schlockmeisters like Steven Spielberg and George Lucas could learn much from. The Criterion DVD is one of the company's earlier ventures (the 19th release of the company, with over 400 now in circulation) and it shows. There are no extras on the disk, save for a nice little trailer. The actual print is mediocre, with many scratches and blemishes, although, at the time, Criterion boasted that it restored the color to the trio of dream sequences each of the murder witnesses engages in, and this adds to the film quite a bit, versus if the scenes were shown in black and white. The film's score, by Paul Dunlap, is typically over the top and jazzy in many parts- although standard film noir fare of the day. It also is shown in its original 1.85:1 aspect ratio and runs an hour and forty minutes, although it seems much quicker, for few of the scenes run on too long.
  Overall, Shock Corridor is one of those works of art that is not nearly as good as its laughable and naïve supporters claim, nor nearly as bad as its fomenting detractors want it to be. It is crude, lurid, vulgar, yet also passionate, and searing in its criticism of the Camelot Era of America. America was (is) sick, and Sam Fuller wanted the world to know. And, in an odd way, this film contains a bit of poetic lyricism, in its meld of the strange, the experimental, and the vulgar. In short, as flawed as it is, it is a deep slice of Americana, and worthy of the preservation bestowed on it by the National Film registry. See it, and regardless of your opinion- good or ill, it will get you talking. When was the last time a current Hollywood release did even that?