As previous reviewers have noted, _INHERIT THE WIND_ is a work of fiction that is based on what came to be known as "The Scopes Monkey Trial."  Also previously noted is the fact that Spencer Tracy, as Henry Drummond, the character adapted from the real life Clarence Darrow, and Frederic March, playing the role of Matthew Harrison Brady, whose character is based on William Jennings Bryan, engage in a carefully choreographed and outstandingly acted "pas de deux" that, to this day, has rarely been matched in any movie.
It should be understood that this is a work of fiction, and is not meant to duplicate the facts of the Scopes trial.  That's why the names have been changed -- to allow literary license for dramatic purposes.
With this as background, one needs to understand the political climate that prevailed when the play from which the movie was adapted was written.  The play was written in 1950, in the middle of what has come to be known as the "McCarthy Era."  The anti-Communist hysteria of the time was seen by many as a threat to intellectual freedom.  It was politically dangerous, at that time, to directly take on those threats to freedom of ideas, so the playwrites (Jerome Lawrence and Robert Lee) came up with the idea of using the Scopes Trial, which was safely in the past, as a vehicle to express the importance of the constitutional guarantees of such things as freedom of speech.  That the play they wrote in 1950, and its 1960 movie version, were of such dramatic intensity was just icing on the cake.
I think that looking at _INHERIT THE WIND_ from the standpoint of historical perspective should do away with some reviewers beliefs that it is some sort of atheistic plot to challenge their belief systems.  Also, repeating myself, I believe that it is important to realize that it is a work of fiction and need not accurately reflect the details of the real trial.
It's worth seeing from several perspectives.  As a well acted movie; as one that creates an atmosphere that makes the viewer feel that he is in that hot, humid courtroom; and as one that expresses how important our freedoms really are.