This is a gem of a movie that parlays Jim Carrey's considerable talent and a delightfully amusing concept of an unexpected gift of six penguins into a heartwarming but hilarious film that never sits still for long.  Carrey's performance goes beyond the simply goofy, slapstick characters he played early in his career to become more nuanced and human, yet still terrifically funny as always.  A man whose own father neglected him, Carrey's character is an exceptionally successful business executive who is on the verge at first of becoming the same kind of father that his own father was, but taking care of the adorable but quirky and demanding penguins wakes him up to the fact that family is the most important thing in his life.  At the end, a letter from his father helps him realize what he must do in order to get his life back into balance, and he brings his fragmented family back together and gets his life back.

This DVD was so much fun to watch that after watching it the first time, I watched it again right afterward with the commentary turned on, and then I watched it again the next day with my 85-year-old mother, who laughed at various points in the story.  This to me is the kind of movie that never loses its appeal.  Far more so than the ubiquitous "A Christmas Story," this movie has the kind of lasting appeal that really works--not just because of nostalgia but because it is endlessly entertaining and it satisfies the heart.  In addition, the filmmakers include just enough character actor roles to make this film pop.  The bellman who figures out how to make money off Carrey's flouting the building's rules and Angela Lansbury, who plays the little old lady with a lot more verve and irreverence than you would expect, plus the p-obssessed assistant, all add their own bit of humor to the story and people it with wonderful elements of comedy worked nicely into the already preposterous plot (see, I'm doing the p's too).

If you need a movie that everyone in the family is likely to enjoy, this is the one.  Jim Carrey is at his best ever, the casting is outstanding, and the movie just works.  From beginning to end, its fun interwoven with heartfelt moments captivated me and made me laugh.  I love this movie, and I hope they're planning a sequel to it with more impossible but ridiculously funny circumstances demonstrating the new grace and warmth that Carrey shows in this film.  Rent the DVD and see if you feel the same way about it.  If so, you'll want to buy it and make it part of your family DVD library for those days when you need a laugh or the comfort of a warm family moment.  It's definitely a keeper.