With the success of the 21st Bond movie - Casino Royale, starring Daniel Craig, a new, younger audience will come across this 1967 version, a parody of the James Bond movies.

On paper this Casino Royale should have been the best comedy ever made. With a line up with the likes of Peter Sellers, David Niven, Woody Allen, and Orson Welles, it is almost a crime that Casino Royale was such a critical disappointment.

Five directors and as many writers has done untold damage to the structure of the movie, with some parts so obviously dire and tired, whilst some parts funny and stylish. For example, the beginning, where David Niven is held up in a Scottish castle of beauties, is mainly slapstick stuff, whilst the Peter Seller's parts are quite witty and more script orientated. The stuff with Sellers and Woody Allen are great but it is lost in reels and reels of bloated directionless action.

You can tell that this movie is composed of three stories spliced together in a sort of desperate attempt of actually finishing something that most of the crew and cast probably regretted starting in the first place.

Some of the dream sequences seem to be `proper' scenes that have been edited out and placed back in. The film reminds me of the last Peter Seller's Pink Panther movie, where unfinished scenes and old scenes are spliced together to form sort of story. But it fails, and the actual story structure of Flemming's Casino Royale is lost in the broth of too many cooks.

Orson Welles, who plays the initial baddie, Le Chiffre, is always a enjoy to watch but it is sad to see him take these type of roles, especially in a mess like this, which is a shame as he would have made a proper Bond Villain, tormenting Sean Connery with wit and quips before enduring him to an elaborate death, which of course doesn't succeed.

David Niven plays David Niven of course, which is weird as he was originally one of the famous actors reportedly put forward to play the real Bond before unknown Sean Connery got the role. In this context, it seems Niven got the booby prize.

Peter Sellers is on fine form, but his role is lost here and there in between bloated long scenes that do not involve him, nor really pull the plot along. Woody Allen shows us his original slapstick and his more surreal humour, long before his more intellectual efforts in years to come. His Jimmy Bond is typical Allen, self-deprecating and self-loathing; not being able to fulfill the respect of his more famous uncle, Niven's James Bond.

The saving grace for the film actually belongs to Burt Bacharach; his score is typical sixties, fun and colourful.

All in all this film is not great, but serves as an odd nostalgia of many talents from both sides of the pond playing on screen together. Others include William Holden, Deborah Kerr and Daliah Lavi.

The film could have benefitted enormously from having just one director to keep the comedy in check and to create a better continuity balance. The film would have been great with a director like Mel Brookes, a great comedy film director and king of parody.

I would recommend this film to fans of Austin Powers rather than James Bond. The music, camp colours and sets, and the bevy of sixties girls, the giant UFO and the `evil' plot all precede the similar Mike Myer's creation 30 years later.