On first-look it seems to have everything old school Horror fans love: a murderous old woman's ghost, an army of evil dolls, dark family secrets, tragic lost love, and a sleepy town drenched in fog. With a look rivaling some Hammer films it's undeniable that it has style to burn... And that's it. It's critical and commercial failure upon release hardly comes as a shock; you'd expect this wooden abortion to premiere on the Sci-Fi channel before being dumped straight-to-dvd. Beyond the veneer of this dummy is a superficial excercise in futility that shows you shouldn't bank on success.

After the opening credits all brain function is immediately shut off. A newlywed couple are trying to have a baby, Slappy from Goosebumps shows up, death and idiocy ensue. Our protagonist returns to his hometown to play gumshow among a population of four with a shaving detective in pursuit. He discovers a vengeful ventriloquist's phantom with a party favor string of tongues. If you can formulate a plot from the listless scenes that let writer Leigh Whannel air his familial damage give yourself a pat on the back. "Whose the dummy now?"

Critics have called this film slow but it's more accurate to site the utter lack of narrative drive. More to the point, it's like getting knocked on the head and led through a kiddie ride haunted house for 90 minutes. After a half-hour of the emotionless WB lead wandering aimlessly through decrepit locales the question is begged, "Where the hell are we going?" The only nonsensical excuse from the filmmakers for this Grand Guignol circle jerk is, "The Saw films did well." But ghosts were never meant to kill people in grisly ways, and it's this lack of subtlety that turns what could be something spooky into a lame neo-slasher. People could see the antagonist as a shameless lift of Freddy Krueger (and they'd be right) but to draw comparisons to better films makes it seem as if the filmmakers were motivated by anything other than fame. Under James Wan's direction Donnie Wahlberg (whose turn in The Sixth Sense is unforgettable) becomes the caricature of a poorman's Vince D'Onofrio to be senselessly killed (an electric shaver buzzing along the floor as a campy death note) along with the rest of the cast. Unmotivated homicide runs rampant and everyone's head is on the chopping block, including the genre's. Dead Silence proves there's been a great generational disconnect no ammount of aesthetic could ever fix and that the old school is very and truly dead.