The first two and a half seasons of The Big Bang Theory were good. That is true, I believe. It managed to rise above the morass
of crap on most broadcast networks and be just good- not exactly a glowing review, but more than you can say for most of the TV out there.

However, the back end of the third season and this season have suffered from a noticeable decline. I'm not really sure exactly what changed, but it's mostly because of three things:

1) The Flanderization of Sheldon
At the show's inception, Sheldon was nowhere near as socially bereft as he is in S4; he's just a very smart, somewhat awkward guy with an admittedly large number of personality quirks. However, when this was spotlighted as the funniest thing in the show, it was ratcheted up several levels- and this actually worked for a time. In season two (the best season), he's at just the right level of obnoxiousness and social neurosis. However, by now he's nothing but a generally insufferable man-child who can't even hold a simple conversation. He's still somewhat funny, granted, but he has to carry the show most of the time. Why?
Because...

2) Leonard is a Jackass
Like with Sheldon, Leonard has been cranked up to 11. Observe-
Season 1 Leonard: Easily the most normal of the 4.
Season 2 Leonard: " "
Season 3 Leonard: Slightly more jerkish, but not enough to seriously disrupt the show.
Season 4 Leonard: Egotistical jerk-ass who complains about everything and fails to actually be funny.
But basically, Season Four of TBBT is just

3) Too much like everything else
As I said earlier, The Big Bang Theory first popped out to me because it was funnier and better than most everything out there. But the writing is sloppier, the characters are more broadly drawn and Flanderized (ex: Wolowitz' perversion, Penny's 'stupidity') and it's just not funny. Granted, there were a few good episodes ("The 21-Second Excitation", "The Justice League Recombination"), and I generally liked Bernadette and Amy Farrah Fowler (except when she only served to highlight just how 'whacky' Sheldon was). But it didn't click for me this year, and I don't know if I'll tune in again.

Full Disclosure: I missed most of the second half of the season's original broadcasts because of a conflict with Community (8/7 ct. on NBC!), but I have seen 17 of the episodes including the last 2. Feel free to malign me for it in the comments

Grade: 2/5