Monarch of the Glen, made for Scottish television and the BBC, is an engaging series set and photographed in the highlands of Scotland. For most viewers I suspect these highlands will be known (or not) from glancing through the National Geographic magazine or a coffee table picture book  It is a delightful contrast to many BBC situation comedies that take place in mundane urban settings and are burlesques of real life. In contrast, life at the Glenbogle estate seems almost real, you even want it to be real!  It is a series of  63 episodes distributed over 18 DVD's with many cast changes, gains, losses and returns, and by the last episode, few players in the original cast remain.

Monarch is the story of the fictional Glenbogle estate and seat of the MacDonald Clan.The like of  this series may have been made for American television but I have not heard of it and might not recognize it if I saw it. Monarch can be as bracing as a brisk early morning breeze coming off the loch. There are no ridiculous car chases, no hot-dry hillside rendezvous, no seedy side-street hideaways, no operating rooms, no phony explosions accompanied by flying bodies, little interpersonal physical violence, and few if any elegantly coiffed females whose acting is restricted either by the script or talent. Ocasonally we come across a bristle-faced goon who is a bad guy.  The stars of the series include many good actors with unfamiliar (to me) faces, and there is the always elegant Susan Hampshire who plays the reigning Glenbogle matriarch Molly. The Laird of Glenbogle, her husband Hector, and head of the MacDonald clan, is appealingly played by Richard Briers. Hector, always irascible, impetuous, predictably unpredictable and impractical, frequently a wastrel, is killed mid-series by an explosion he set to kill an overgrown pike he suspected of ruining his fishing in the loch. A character found through much of the series is the resident naif and court jester, Duncan, played by Hamish Clark. Duncan's antics, while amusing, can also be tiresome though he helps each episode move forward.

The Glenbogle Manor House around which much of the action is centered, is another of the series stars. It is real, architecturally interesting inside and out, and, for the series, in need of repair. Money, for the estate, is an ongoing problem, and many episodes deal with  financial stresses. The estate, over 45,000 acres, includes the loch, still and glassy or tossed by the wind, magnificent landscapes that stretch for miles, and moist, mossy, arboreal understories that are quiet as cathedrals. Crofter's cottages, humble, attractive, and real, are separated, often by miles of landscape. In this space, time, plots and sub-plots, and contrasting sets of characters come in and out of view as each episode progresses.

The series includes a number of love interests and amours and on occasion can border on soap opera.although most viewers will have little trouble identifying with the characters.and the loves won, lost, or pending. As the series ends, Golly, the highly competent and ever faithful Glenbogle ghillie and factotum wins his almost unreachable and nearly lost Molly as they face a hopeful future together.