BEE SEASON is a film that is at times mesmerizing. It tells the story of a young girl named Eliza Naumann played to perfection by the young Flora Cross who discovers she has a gift for spelling. The gift appears out of nowhere and she's not sure how to handle it. Her gift catches the interest of her father Saul, a Jewish theologian/professor played by Richard Gere who believes his daughter may be a mystic. Saul shifts his attention from his son Aaron, played quite well by Max Minghella to his daughter. His doting attention also detracts from his relationship with his wife Miriam played by Juliette Binoche.

The film has strengths which carry it and keep the viewer interested. We see an inside view of the world of spelling bees and we are introduced to the Jewish mystical tradition of Kabala which answers questions viewers could have throughout the film. The characters are compelling as well. Yet there are faults. Miriam has faced significant tragedies in her life which come to a head in the film.  The details of the tragedy are too vague. We are supposed to sympathize with her and believe her husband's self centeredness is the cause. While the film intends to portray this, I'm not sure it does as effectively as it perhaps could. Richard Gere is a good actor, and he seems to put all of his efforts into the role of Saul, but I'm not sure we would see him as completely self centered if we were not told this was the case. I still can't decide if it's due to Gere being miscast or the writing. Aaron begins looking into other religions which stirs up family tension. We believe the sincerity of his quest since he comes across as rather spiritual, but his ultimate choice seems like a stretch.

While my criticisms may seem significant, I do recommend this film. The story is told from the point of view of Eliza, and the strengths of her character do carry the film. The film also has an intimate feel due in large part to the cast members working well together. It also flows rather well and while not perfect, all in all is an enjoyable evening's entertainment.