The World Is Not Enough released in 1999 directed by Michael Apted who has really just done a lot of TV work & some documenteries. I actually saw this in theater when it came out. This is 1 of the better Bond movies. It stars Pierce Brosnan as James Bond for the 3rd time Judi Dench reprises her role as M. Which she was given a bigger role. Desmond Llewlyn as Q who died after this movie came out. Robert Carlyle as Renard Sophie Marceau as Elecktra King  Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones & Robbie Coltrane returned as Zukovsky. Story is Bond is in Biblo Spain to retrive money for Robert King but he wants to find out the truth about the murder of 0012. The banker is murdered by his assistant Bond escapes arrives in London with the money. King's lepel pin is triggered to arm a bomb it kills King. Then we get a decent boat chase with the assassin she tries to escape in a hot air ballon Bond grabs a hold of a rope tries to reason with her she shoots 1 of the gas tanks kills herself Bond falls a short distance we get a cool opening with a great theme by Garbage. Bond traces the money to a terrorist named Renard who has a bullet in his brain which he feels no pain but the bullet will eventually kill him. M thinks Renard might go after King's daughter Elecktrta because Renard abducted her previously. Elecktra runs her father's oil business now she is building a big pipe line. Elecktra is over seeing it when she is attacked we get a decent action scene while sking it's cool. Bond goes to Valentine Zukovsky's casino to find out if he was behind the attack on Elecktra. He finds out 1 of Eleckta's body gaurds Davidov is working with Renard he goes & kills Davidov poses as him to find out what Renard is up to. In this missle site or whatever were intoduced to Dr. Christmas Jones & she is suspicous of Bond. He finds out Renard is stealing plutonium his cover is blown & we get 1 of the better action scenes. He also finds out that Elecktra might be working with Renard. A bomb has been placed in 1 of the pipelines Bond & Jones go to investigate he fakes there deaths to throw Elecktra off. Elecktra turns on M no suprise you could see it coming 10 milies away. Bond thinks that Zukovsky is working for Elecktra but that's not the case Electra's men are trying to kill him this was a decent acton scene. Basically they find out where Renard's hide out is Madien's Tower in Instanbul Renard is going to use a Nuclar Sub to cause an instant catosphic melt down to take out Russia's oil pipe line. 1 of Zukovsky's henchies turn on him Bond & Christmas Jones are captured. Bond is put in a torture chair it's kind of cool Zukovsky comes in saves him but he is killed in the process he goes & frees M kills Eleckta goes to save Dr. Jones & that's pretty much the movie. The boat chase took 7 weeks to film. The scene with Zukovsk in the pool of caviar was filmed on Robbie Coltrane's birthday. MGM wanted Sharon Stone for the role of Elecktra King. Peter Jackson was considered to direct. The original screener was 160 minutes I do suggest the game on the N64 & PS1. Michael Apted did a decent job directing. Some of the acting is on & off Pirece Brosnan was great again. Judi Dench was good again she figured into the plot more. Sad Desmond Llewlyn never got to play Q again you can't go wrong with Llewlyn & Judi Dench. Robert Carlyle worked fine as the villain. Robbie Coltrane was pretty good. I'm not a fan of Denise Richards but she did a decent job I'd rather watch her than Halle Berry in Die Another Day. Sopie Marceau her character wasn't the best I don't think it was needed honestly but she did good for what she had to do. I think the director & cast all did a good job it has some problems & the plot wasn't the best but it gets the job done. I'd rather watch this over a lot of the Roger Moore Bond movies or Casino Royale yes I'm serious or Die Another Day now that's a bad sequel.