WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD!

On the surface of this searching, interesting yet self-consciously cynical film are certain production values that are impressive and memorable. Laslo Kovaks' cinematography is sharp and spacious. The music is dynamic, restless and clearly expressive of the questing, revolutionary mood of the late Sixties. I even enjoyed the film's meandering, episodic nature as it expressed the various characters' desire to live a less hectic, less materialistic and more leisurely, spiritually rewarding life.

However, as I mentioned above, the whole thing is weighed-down with what I perceive as a heavy-handed and self-serving sense of hopelessness that is established right in the very first scene in the movie where the two main characters, `Wyatt' and `Billy', played by Dennis Hopper and Peter Fonda, are introduced. Simply put, they seem aimless and irresponsible in a selfish way. I understand and accept that they are trying to get away from the time-pressure, the stresses and moral confusion of a maddeningly complex, over-competitive and de-humanizingly mechanistic society, but where are they going? They have no jobs; they don't produce anything for others, only for themselves by dealing drugs. By the way, I've got no problem with the abundant marijuana-smoking the film. That's not a `drug' -- it's an herbal product of Nature that God, the Creator of the Universe, put into the soil of this planet for us to cultivate and use in a variety of ways from recreational to medicinal.

But 'Wyatt' and 'Billy' also deal in things like cocaine -- which we all know can be destructively and terminally addictive -- and hallucinogens like acid, which can pose serious mental and emotional problems for emotionally fragile and/or damaged people who take it in unsupervised and spiritually unwholesome settings. For two guys allegedly fleeing from the evils of materialism, they sure didn't question the ethics of profiting personally from the sale and distribution of these often dangerous psychoactive substances. In other words, their cynicism about `the way things are' is stronger than their optimism about how things might be.

Their attitude towards women is ambiguous, at most. They're not abusers in a violent or misogynistic way, but they certainly don't know, or seem to even want to know, about what they could gain spiritually by committing to a woman in the monogamous sense. I think Peter Fonda's character exhibits this one aspect of the film's subtext in a sensitive and powerfully emotive way. To my eyes, he seems to ache to reach out and share himself fully with a woman, but at the same time he exudes that familiar male dread and fear of revealing his need to be part of something larger than himself. The scene in the New Orleans graveyard is pure, artsy-smartsy bleakness that is deeply disheartening and speaks of the waste and inconsolable tragedy of using drugs and alcohol to achieve a so-called `high' by breaking down the ego and scattering it to the wind - most commonly while engaged in the act of sexual intercourse - while at the same time numbing oneself to the possibility of experiencing joy through committed love, which builds the ego up and makes it feel more secure, alive, and creative.

There's so much more in so many scenes of this film that I'd like to comment on, but for brevity's sake I'll skip to the ending, which is where the previously mentioned self-serving cynicism reaches its hysterically dramatized zenith. The sudden, seemingly senseless violence of the fatal shotgun assault on `Wyatt' and `Billy' is shocking, disorienting, and resonates emotionally and politically, too. But when I stop to think about it, I find myself able to imagine at least one possible reason why the men in the pick-up truck acted in the way that they did, not to validate it in any way whatsoever, but only to point out how the weight of the film's dead-ending cynicism practically left no other way for the writers and the director to imagine a more optimistic ending to the film.

And it's this: `Wyatt' and `Billy' are so detached from the vast and varied current of life in America in all its ugliness and beauty, and appear so ready to reject out-of-hand the so-called `Establishment' they are allegedly running away from, that in the end they seem as haughty and condescending, as disdainful and mistrustful, as intolerant and hateful, and possessed of as much prejudice and ignorance and inflexibility as the `squares' they encounter in their motorcycle trek across America. They couldn't get far away enough from what they hated to be able to shed the irrational impulse to hate those who were different from them. And they obviously never got hold of a copy of Jack Kerouac's semi-autobiographical novel, `On the Road', because if they had, they'd have learned to be more experimental and imaginative in their dealings with people.

Like Miles Davis once said, "You've got to learn the rules, to break the rules." Thanks for your attention.