Don't believe the naysayers - SUNSHINE CLEANING is a charming, intelligent and deeply felt film. Telling the story of dysfunctional sisters Rose and Norah (played likeably by the brilliant Amy Adams and Emily Mortimer) starting a business as a crime scene clean-up crew in the suburbs. In spite of this potentially grim subject matter, Megan Holley's script mostly eschews a downbeat or depressing tone, indeed it often surprises  with its warmth and sensitivity. The film is at times quite funny, but it's more often very moving. There is also an admirable economy of storytelling. We are told everything we need to know about these characters in under 90 minutes. In the hands of a lesser talent one might easily imagine something more lengthy and ungainly.

Concentrating on the different ways in which people slowly come to terms with life's traumatic upheavals and disappointments, there is never anything heavy-handed or preachy in the screenplay. This intelligent, subtle approach is beautifully complimented by Christine Jeffs' direction. There is an almost documentary style to the way the film is shot, though this is not to say there are lots of wobbly hand-held camera takes and the visual style with its gently subdued  pastel colours is never at the expense of the narrative or the performances.

There is not one poor actor on show, and it's a shame really because of its "independent" status, intelligence and (comparatively) low budget that SUNSHINE CLEANING will not be as familiar to audiences if it were produced by one of the bigger US studios. All the principal actors give career-best performances and the dependable Alan Arkin is especially worthy of praise. Jason Spevack, playing Rose's 8 year-old son is also exceptional - a superb child-actor who quietly steals scenes without being saccharine or irritatingly precocious.

The extras on the DVD are slightly disappointing. The most interesting feature is the short documentary "A FRESH LOOK AT A DIRTY BUSINESS" which looks at the reactions of 2 actual clean-up workers to the fictional representation of their profession in the film. Both Emily Blunt and Amy Adams make brief interview appearances here, but I personally could have done with a longer "Making-of..." documentary. The commentary by writer Megan Holley and producer Glenn Williamson is not without value but it lacks the kind of insights that would make one look at the film afresh, instead the discussion mainly focuses on the experiences of the film crew at the Albuquerque locations and of various drafts undergoing rewrites.

Nevertheless, SUNSHINE CLEANING is well worth a punt, especially if you're looking for US cinema with a brain that's a bit left-field whilst still managing to be warm and strangely inspiring.