&#65533;Trust everybody, just not the devil inside.&#65533;
The stage is set at Venice and the target is thirty-five million dollars worth of gold bullion.  John Bridger, a master safecracker, is about to pull the last job of his career.  Only this time he isn&#65533;t running the show, that responsibility has been passed on to his successor Charlie Crocker, the mastermind behind the whole scheme.  Everything goes according to plan, until one of them decides to doublecross the rest of the group.  Now, a year after that unfortunate incident, Charlie finally locates the traitor&#65533;s trail.  He enlists the help of John&#65533;s daughter Stella, who happens to be an expert of safes and locks herself.  Together with his former cohorts, they will attempt to reclaim what is rightfully theirs&#65533;, as well as exact revenge the person that betrayed them.
Admittedly the plot of The Italian Job follows the same set up as most caper films: a crew get together, then comes the obligatory introduction of the important players, with the explanation, the preparation and finally the completion of the heist.  Despite the formulaic scenario, director Gray&#65533;s execution was so energetic and thrilling that such contrivance can be easily overlooked.  There were a couple of story elements that were never fully explained to my satisfaction.  Even so, these irritations did not dampen my enjoyment for the film.
&#65533;There are two kinds of thieves in the world: ones that steal to enrich their lives, and ones that steal to define their lives.&#65533;
Mark Wahlberg is likeable enough as the main character Charlie, but lacks the charisma to carry the movie himself.  Luckily, the rest of the cast was more than capable of picking up the slack.  Charlize Theron exudes confidence and a kind of recklessness in the role of Stella Bridger; her charm is unmistakable here.  Edward Norton, on the other hand, seems to lack his usual intensity playing the villainous Steve.  Seth Green is again relegated to be the token wise-cracker, don&#65533;t get me wrong, the guy is funny and does a good job as the computer wizard Lyle, but I think he is capable of much more than just the comedy relief.  Jason Statham is dynamic as Handsome Rob, and Mos Def&#65533;s Left-Ear is quirky.  It is a shame that Donald Sutherland&#65533;s part is so small, even though his character, John Bridger, is an important aspect of the story.  I confess that for most of the film I was dreading the cliched romance between the two leads that is usually found in these movies, and to my surprise the writers never resorted to it.  Choosing instead to ride the adrenaline rush all the way to the end, and The Italian Job benefited greatly because of that decision.
The Italian Job is full of kinetic energy with well-staged speedboat and car chases, it is an excellent film and a fun movie with a lot to offer for fans of the heist genre.  I was pretty much caught up in the excitement after a few minutes into it, and what followed was one heck of a ride.  This is what summer blockbusters are all about, having a good time.