In the behind-the-scenes documentary that's featured in the "Deliver Us From Eva" DVD, its star Gabrielle Union says that "there are a lot of firsts in this movie that we haven't seen before, ever."  Well, having watched this film, I can attest that her comment isn't entirely true.  "Deliver Us From Eva" actually covers charted territory, as the script is really an urbanized retelling of "The Taming of the Shrew."  Union takes the ball and runs with it as Eva, a no-nonsense, take-the-bull-by-the-horns woman who controls the lives of her three sisters and their relationships.  The men who are dating these women are up to their ears with her controlling ways, so they call upon the help of Ray (LL Cool J), whom they pay to date and dump Eva so she can stop meddling into their private lives.  I would have been more forgiving if "Deliver Us From Eva" were smooth enough to glide over its flaws, but they stick out like zits on a 14-year-old.  While the film is watchable, the script sometimes tries too hard to get its point across, has clumsy dialogue and predictable one-liners, and is mostly surprise-free to the average moviegoer.  Plus, I often found it hard to believe that these grown women are so empty-headed that they'll uncritically follow whatever instructions their sister gives them.  I mean, what's so great about Eva? How did she get on such a high pedestal and what makes her so incredibly superior to the other ladies?  The movie doesn't give a convincing answer and falters as a result.  But it's still worth a look solely for Union, who lights up the screen in a role that's simultaneously irritating yet hilarious.  Leaving no room for ambiguity, Eva makes it clear to everyone (even her local minister) that her way is the right way.  LL Cool J (credited as James Todd Smith in this movie) continues to show promise as an actor, but if his performance indicates anything, it's that he still needs to learn how to completely relax in front of a camera.  Still, Smith possesses a warmth in "Eva" we haven't witnessed in his prior films such as "Any Given Sunday."  To be honest, "Deliver Us From Eva" is really a 2-star movie, but I'm feeling generous today, so I'll give it an extra star solely because of Gabrielle Union.  Even as the movie threatens to collapse, she holds herself together, which is no mean feat considering the second-rate material she had to work with here.