The film is very much in the mold of "Sleepy Hollow," at least visually.  However the remoteness that provides for a lot of the unease of that movie is almost entirely overlooked in "An American Haunting."  This could have been made much more effective if the flight scene where, about two-thirds of the way through the movie, John and Betsy Bell seek to escape from the house, had instead been slightly retooled and used earlier in the film.  It's only very late in the film that you really get a sense of isolation and it's almost too late to add any chills.

As others have commented, despite some major talents, the film didn't leave me with feeling that the actors were being used to their full abilities.  Sissy Spacek spent most of the film moon-eyed with fear (and she really does that better than anyone in Hollywood) but I would like to have seen more fire, particularly as the film begins to point to its entirely predictable pop-psychology conclusion.

Other minor annoyances: The jump from present time to the Bell Witch past is jarring and unnecessary (in fact, it weakens the fright-factor as you've always got in the back of your mind that you're witnessing past events, instead of participating in them contemporaneously.)  The exaggerated "American" accents are at first amusing, but soon grow tiresome (I think the actors thought so as well as they start out sounding like so many inbred hillbillies, but by the end of the film their diction is more or less normal.)  The Darth Vader-like breathing of the "witch" POV wandering around the house, by reminding me of "Star Wars," actually put me more at ease instead of heightening the tension.  And I think this movie revealed to me for the first time that school children were playing soccer in the 17th century!

There were several interesting plotlines that were never really explored properly and could have been left out or at least explained a little better.  The relationship between the student and teacher; the possibility the much hated John Bell was the victim of spiteful neighbors, etc.  These devices were apparently thrown in to more firmly connect the film to the historic (and theoretically true) accounts of the Bell Witch, but they also served to divert your attention and let the air out of any building sense of dread.

That said, while the movie wasn't the worst horror film I've ever seen, it certainly didn't live up to its potential or billing.  There were some frights but, as others have noted, entirely too many of them were the result of sudden really loud noises, instead of anything truly supernatural happening on the screen.