Mira Nair's latest romp into Indian culture takes us to the rain soaked outskirts of Delhi as the colorful tale Monsoon Wedding unfolds. Filmed on a tight schedule with minimal resources over a course of merely 30 days, the film chronicles the days leading up to the wedding of the daughter of Punjabi businessman Lalit Verma (Naseerudin Shah) and his high society wife Pimmi (Lillette Dubey). In Monsoon Wedding, Nair makes a 180 degree turn from her days of slum hopping in Salaam Bombay, by weaving aspects of India's rapid globalization into the thick fabric of Indian traditionalism. As patriarch Lalit golfs with his friends, he discusses his troubles financing the wedding despite his shipments to Macy's. All the while, his golf cart coasts past village women walking along the greens, donning fruit baskets on their heads as they have done for centuries. Meanwhile the comical marigold munching wedding planner Dubey (Rajiv Vaaz) talks on his cell phone with his stock-market obsessed mother who later laments in a single breath, the downturn of one of her investments before switching to complaints that her son has "not taken an interest in any girl and will never allow me to see the face of a grandson". 
Naseerudin Shah and Lilette Dubey give strong performances as the preoccupied parents of Aditi (Vasundhara Das) the daughter who tries to do the right thing by entering into an arranged marriage despite her passion for her former boss and married lover Vikram (Sameer Arya). Nair doesn't shy away from taboo topics as the arrival of a family friend leads the orphaned older niece Ria (brilliantly acted by Shefali Shetty) to expose a terrible secret from her past that threatens to break up a long friendship. Meanwhile Rahul (Randeep Hooda)  an NRI from Australia and Ayesha (Neha Dubey),  Aditi's promiscuous cousin act on each other's attractions towards one another under the very noses of the elders. Never one to lose sight of the labor class, Nair tenderly portrays the blossoming romance between wedding planner Dubey and the pretty young servant girl Alice (Tilotamma Shome). 
Despite brilliant performances by Naseerudin Shah as the dutiful father and uncle, Lilette Dubey, Rajiv Vaaz and Shefali Shetty, Monsoon Wedding is not without its weaknesses. The hand-held camera, a by-product of the low budget makes the film look at times more like a home video taken by the unsteady hand of a thirteen year old. Wavering shots, extreme close-ups and noticeable breaks in the film are distracting. Also disappointing was the pallid performance given by Vasundhara Das. As the confused bride, Das pouts and blinks, but for all her lip -biting and knit eyebrows, she appears to be acting in her own film. One begins to wish that she would return to her old lover and allow a romance to blossom between her understanding fianc&eacute; (Parvin Dabbas) and her more mature and worldly-wise cousin Ria. 
But Nair once again surprises at the end and manages to serve up a Bollywood style-ending that allows for an enjoyable distraction on any rainy, if not monsoonish afternoon.