REVIEW CONTAINS PLOT SPOILERS (though I did not think this was a very plot-driven movie)

The Barefoot Contessa is only slightly over two hours long, but it seems interminable. As World War II came to an end and the European economic recovery fueled by the Marshall Plan took effect, Americans were beginning to enjoy travel in Europe. Here we have two very big stars (Humphrey Bogart and Ava Gardener) and a film crew getting to spend several weeks along the Riviera making "The Barefoot Contessa." They probably should just have taken a vacation in Europe, though the decision to make this flimsy excuse of a movie probably made tax sense.

Joseph L. Mankiewicz wrote and directed this story of Maria Vargas, a "Spanish dancer" from a sordid background whose beauty and supposed talent attract Hollywood scouts to the seedy Madrid nightclub where she performs. After about half an hour of talk and maneuvering, she's convinced to come to Hollywood where she gains stardom as "Maria D'Amato." There's more talk and I fell asleep for about 15 minutes. She goes back to Europe where, along the Riviera, she mingles with the "international society" set, which includes a number of deposed but still monied aristocrats. After never allowing herself to love anyone, she falls in love with an Italian count--or maybe he's French or from Monaco. From somewhere along the Riviera anyway, and he owns some impressive real estate with sweeping views. They marry in the Catholic church, and on their wedding night, he tells her her can't function as a husband due to injuries sustained in the war. To give the count an heir, which Maria thinks will make him happy, she fools around with a gardener. When the count finds out, he kills Maria. The story is told as a series of flashbacks, interspersed with scenes her rain-soaked funeral.

To the extent the movie has a story arc, it's about Maria's "fairy tale" life, from the gutter to fame and fortune to royalty, and then her unhappy ending. The real concern seems to be to give Mankiewicz an opportunity to vent his obsessions about the phoniness of the movies, the film industry, and society as a whole, and boy does he vent. The characters, mostly the supporting characters, talk on and on and on about matters that have little bearing on the story. Their chatter does nothing to advance the story or develop the characters. The script strains for wit it almost invariably fails to find. Although the Riviera settings are gorgeous, the camerawork does little to bring them, or the characters, to life. If the ten commandments of good storytelling all rolled into one are "show don't tell," this movie will spend eternity in hell. It's all telling and no showing.

This was my first Ava Gardner movie and I suspect it will be my last. She's a feast for the eyes and wears lovely and seductive costumes as Maria. Unfortunately, she has about as much charisma as a cardboard box.

Humphrey Bogart is competent and gives a relaxed but not particularly memorable performance as the film director who shapes Maria's career.

Not recommended except for people who have to see everything Bogart ever did.