Team America: World Police is as stupid as it promises to be. In the interest of full disclosure, I generally enjoy the cable TV series South Park, but Matt Stone and Trey Parker seem to miss the mark with their movies.

The problem with Team America, I think, is a simple one. When Parker and Stone do movies, they aren't limited by the stricter mores of television. While their stuff usually has some good seeds, they rarely develop into anything in their films as it's much easier to issue a string of curse words. If that were to happen once or twice in the movie, it could be funny. When it happens every five minutes, it gets old.

For all of the flaws though, there are some great moments. The music is full of foul words, but hilarious, and the highlight of the soundtrack has to be Kim Jung Il - - yes, the North Korean dictator - - singing "Lonely". Since the characters are marionettes, their movements have much of the same funny, fake quality as those in the South Park series. Parker and Stone capitalize on this at crucial moments in the plot, creating automatic comic relief. The creators also use computer animation, sometimes subtly, to make the characters seem more real when they want to.

I'm not trying to be too serious in picking apart the movie as it should be clear that it's not going to be up for Academy Awards. But Parker and Stone have a gift for making an audience laugh and they have a unique perspective on the world. The movie uses the same technique as the South Park series of making enemies of both sides of a debate: The movie opens with the Team obliterating the heart of Paris. So, from the beginning, the movie is a commentary on America's ignorant use of power and insensitivity to other cultures and customs.

At the same time, some liberal ambassadors of Hollywood and New York City aren't spared. The Screen Actors Guild becomes the Film Actors Guild (apparently so the acronym can spell the word FAG,) and is headed up by none other than Alec Baldwin. Most of the celebrity marionettes meet extremely violent ends as they square off against the Team in their quest to rule the world. In one hilarious moment, Michael Moore blows himself up, taking Team headquarters with him, as he becomes a martyr for peace.

This is one to rent, in my opinion, but it's definitely good for some yucks if you at all like the Parker/Stone sense of humor.