Honestly, this is the best show that was ever made for TV and it only lasted one season. I am gutted that they cancelled it all these years later. I am sure the studio is still kicking themselves over that unfortunate call and likely fired the studio exec that made that bone-headed decision. This series has made them a lot of money in DVD sales. It now has a cult following and they could have made so much more money off of the show had they just stuck with it another season or two to let the show build a following. It was, and still is, one of the most realistic shows ever made. Not just with the kids, but the adults in the series as well.

For those of you that have been living under a rock and somehow managed to miss this series through the years, I'll give a quick run down of the basics. The main character is Angela, a 15 year old introvert who is obsessed, to the point of distraction, with Jordan, a handsome slacker who leans against things in the most appealing way. Her new bestfriends are Rayanne and Ricki, grunge kids that take her from wallflower to weirdo-hip-chick in record speed, leaving her former bestie Sharon in the dust. Her neighbor Brian, the brain of the school, is obsessed with Angela, unbeknownst to her, bringing the love-fest, teenage-angst style, full circle. Surrounded by the kids drama are the different parents who are all struggling with their own issues as well, and all of these plot lines are treated with respect and realism as well. The parents and adults in the show aren't treated as just filler here, they are well rounded characters with their own sub-plots playing out.

What was so unique about this show is the brilliant writing and the brave story lines. The covered issues range from teen alcoholism, homosexuality, guns in the school, low self esteem, teen sex, homelessness, to parental infidelity. Even a Grateful Dead show and Kurt Cobain's suicide show up! My So-Called Life was ahead of its time for its realistic approach to the story lines. Most everyone in the audience will be able to relate to at least one of the characters in a very real, authentic way. The show truly was pure genius!