The idea of Brigadoon is lushly romantic; it's a shame the movie lacks the magic & romance of an emotionally engaging movie. Part of the magic is lost because, apparently due to budget limitations, the movie is filmed on a soundstage. This makes the film small...in every sense of the word. With the Scottish Highlands being as important a " character" as any of the people, it is a shame that the lush beauty of this land is diminished to a sound stage with obviously painted backdrops. So often while watching the film, I felt jarred by the fakeness of the sets. It prevents some viewers, like myself, from becoming immersed in the magical story. And, for a fantasy to work, one needs to be transported to that imaginary world. This simply doesn't happen here.
Another reason that I was unable to connect emotionally to the movie is the lack of any character development. This is especially critical with the Gene Kelley-Cyd Charisse couple. It's hard to see the reason for an intense love occurring; plus, unfortunately, there is a lack of romantic chemistry between these two. Also jarring is the extremely bitter & cynical Van Johnson. With the exception of the marvelously whimsical soft-shoe duet that he performs with Kelley, this character seems to be too harsh a counterpoint to the sweetness of the townsfolk. And that's another problem, too: this supposedly magical place felt saccharine and one- dimensional.
Finally, with the exception of "It's Almost Like Falling in Love," none of the songs are all that compelling. The dances fail to captivate, too: there's nothing like Fred Astaire's scorching firecracker number in "Holiday Inn," or the breathtaking Astaire-Rogers final duet in "Follow the Fleet." This lack spells trouble for any musical. You've got to have good singing and dancing in a musical. Otherwise, what's the point.
There is, however, enough good to partially redeem some of the film's weaknesses. Some of the ensemble dancing is quite good; the schoolmaster is believably warm & wise, giving the story behind the miracle of Brigadoon credibility, the costumes are stunningly colorful and well- designed; and the inimitable Cyd Charisse graces the movie. Others have commented how little like a Scottish lass she appears. But the elegance and purity of her dancing more than overcomes this potential problem. On whole, then, this movie has some enjoyable moments. It simply lacks being one of MGM's finest.