I use to own the 2-Disc Special Edition, but had picked up the Super-Cool Edition 2-Disc set on Tuesday.  On to the movie: You start off with a simple heard of mammoths, along with other species like rhinoceroses, sloths, and others.  A sloth (John Leguizamo) named Sid was abandoned by his own family and he runs into a mammoth (Ray Romano) named Manfred and he is continually annoyed by the sloth and his annoying self and sense of humor.  They later come across a mother holding her baby after she had jumped off a cliff next to a waterfall as a sacrifice to save her only kid.  After a moment of the sloth and mammoth arguing, they come to an agreement that they'd bring the kid back to his parents.  Shortly afterwards, they come across a sabre-tooth tiger (Denis Leary) named Diego, that played apart in the attack of the humans who asks to deliver the baby himself even though it wasn't for that purpose.  The tiger and mammoth compromise and all three find the humans together.  Through all the annoying moments with each other and mostly Sid, heh heh, they start adapting with each other.  Once they get close to the human tribe, they enter a cave and come to a point where there are drawings of their own kind printed on the rock...That's when they learn a little bit about themselves and who they are as a part of their own species.  They become very good friends with each other and they call themselves the weirdest heard, but they start to smile and have fun, along with Diego defending his friends from the rest of the heard of sabre-tooth tigers.  They start looking after each other in the funny times of danger that they have and, in the end, the mammoth proves that he does not want to harm the human tribe, but return their baby and part in peace.  The message that I see coming out of this animated movie is the friendship they have even though each of these three characters are different (sloth, mammoth, & a sabre-tooth tiger).  Along with fantastic animation and silly comedy for kids and adults, it has a great story for everyone.  I can't wait to see Ice Age 2.