A screenwriting disaster with lots and lots of appealing bits in it. Jane Russell is terrific. And the movie has Thurston Howell the Third, Vincent Price, AND Perry Mason--who couldn't love that? The cinematography goes from very good (well, maybe just good in the shootout scenes) to very, very good. Robert Mitchum has lots of great lines (She: "I heard you killed --------. How did it feel?" Mitchum: "He didn't say.") But oh my god, the idiotic plot. The movie can't begin to decide what genre it is--it goes from film noir to suave romance to slapstick comedy (I mean really, the BOAT SINKS?) to over-the-top melodrama complete with mad bug-eyed pure-evil arch-villain and neo-Nazi-ish doctor. And what is that weird freaky business with the belt? Just a whack-O mess.

To begin with, the movie goes for practically an HOUR without the audience knowing what the heck is going on; and when you finally learn, you'll wish you'd stayed in the dark. With a plot this hopeless, you'd want to put off getting to it for as long as possible too.

According to the commentary by Vivian Sobchack (I like DVDs with commentary tracks), the notorious nutjob billionaire Howard Hughes had purchased RKO Radio Pictures in 1948, and immediately began "helping" with the studio's products, including this 1951 release. She says he was responsible for most of the bad parts of this movie-that-can't-make-up-its-mind: apparently he was virtually writing the film himself by the time it turns weird and genre-bending. So this is really a textbook example of how a meddlesome boss can ruin a project...except that apparently the meddlesome (and inexplicably inconsistent) censors helped spoil the broth too.

I can't even complain that it's not a "film noir" because it is. But only in places.

There are holes galore in the plot--not only is the main plot straight out of a comic book, but there are all sorts of little "asides" that don't advance the story. And although it's hard to dislike Robert Mitchum in anything, he never conveys the sense here that he's ever actually in any danger OR that he is but doesn't care (like in "Out of the Past"). But that's beside the point--it's the genre-confusion that spoils the stew here, like a whole bunch of standard Hollywood tropes tossed in randomly and stirred. Where did that term "hot mess" come from? It's perfect for "His Kind of Woman!".

I can't quite bring myself to give this two stars because of the lovely Jane Russell and the great B&W camerawork and...well, all the swell Hollywood pros doing such swell jobs at what they do. But three stars is really a stretch for a movie that just plain fails to come together.