Being a teen in the 1980's I grew up with a lot of the teen sex comedy romps, at the time I thought these movies were hilarious, and couldn't get why older people didn't think they were funny as well, fast track 20 years later, watching some of these movies again, as an adult I can see why.

Superbad fits this category, I believe those in the 14-20 year range might find this "coming of age" teen comedy funny, but adults might look at it as nothing more than a film of some teen boys running around trying to get sex, and swearing a whole lot, and I mean a lot, ok the entire film. The one thing about the movies with the lovable dorky guys in high school are to make them seem, well likeable, as the cool kids treat them like crap, and they wind up coming out on top at the end, the thing about Superbad, I didn't find the characters likeable at all, Seth was nothing more than a foul mouth vulgar jerk, and Evan lacked any real depth. The scene stealing Fogell character had some laughs, but that was about it.

Another thing is these characters existed in some weird fantasy world, where the cool kids were only the boys, who treated them like crap, but the hot girls they were interested in, well they were really nice, and liked them back, man, where was this high school at? What I remember cool kids both male and female treated the un-cool kids horrible, and wouldn't give them the time of day,so this aspect in the film of the hot girls being really great to our loveable loser heros, laughable in the way it's not at all plausible in the least. And the adults in this film (cops,convience store cashiere etc) being total morons,okay right.

And I find no comparison to this film with Revenge of the Nerds, that film actually pretty much depicted how the so called "Geeks, Nerds and Losers" were treated, and one of the main characters ending up with the snotty popular cheerleader was at least possible. What I got from this film, was if I shot a 90 min movie with two boys sitting on a couch cussing up a storm, talking about sex it would make millions.

To me this film just isn't anywhere near as funny as Revenge of the Nerds, or the more recent film, The 40 year old Virgin, those films made me laugh, this one just made me fast forward it through scenes, and wish I could have got my rental money back.