Whether this is the original buddy cop movie which launched a whole genre or not it's  certainly one of the best. Ganz (James Remar), an escaped convict, goes on a violent search for money that him and a couple of partners stole and hid three years ago. Only a few people know where the money is hidden and one of them is Luther (David Patrick Kelly). Ganz meets up with him and Luther tells him that he can't access the money for a couple of days so Ganz takes his girl as collateral. He plans on hiding out at a hotel but the cops trace a stolen credit card that Ganz used to pay for the room and show up at the hotel. A gunfight erupts and of the three cops on the scene the only man to survive is Jack Cates (Nick Nolte). Cates wants Ganz even more now that he is a cop killer and he starts his own investigation  hoping to anticipate Ganz's next move. He learns of the hidden cash and realizes  what Ganz is after. The only other person left alive who was in on the job is a fast talker named Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy). He's  in prison serving out his last couple of months on a three year sentence. Thinking that he can lead him to the money before Ganz gets it Cates springs Reggie from jail on a 48 hour pass. Cates is all business but Reggie wants to enjoy being a free man and get a little action. The two hate each other immediately and they spar both verbally and physically. They make a great team and are a lot of fun to watch. There is a lot of humor in watching Nolte as the raspy voiced and hung over cop trying to control a live wire like Murphy (making his film debut). Director Walter Hill would practically remake this movie in the 80's as Red Heat but this is the version that works. The film is raw and gritty with plenty of violence, nudity, and language. There are even a few nasty racial slurs between the two men. Remar is terrifying as Ganz and it is nice to see him and "Warriors" co star Patrick Kelly in a complete role reversal from their characters in that Hill classic. This is one of Hill's best films as it shows his considerable gifts at directing exciting action scenes and coming up with great one liners for our heroes to deliver between gunfights and explosions.