Movie

Black-ops agent Mallory Kane (Gina Carano) is double crossed and left for dead by her own agency in this Steven Soderbergh directed action thriller.

Video

Haywire was filmed with Red One cameras which results in an awesome picture that has remarkable clarity but I did notice that the picture got softer  in extremely bright scenes.  I am sure it stems from the fact  that the backdrops did not have any artificial light and relied solely on natural light. While the picture was soft in well-lit scenes it maintained a great deal of detail. Darker scenes seemed to be where the filmed shined best because a lot of small details became extremely clear.

Audio

Haywire was mastered with a DTS-HD 5.1 track  which made gunfire very immersive. In certain quiet scenes I did have to crank up the volume because the dialogue was extremely muffled. Most times the muffled dialogue came from Antonio Banderas so be aware of that if you are watching this film at low volume. The HD track did a great job with a lot of the close contact fight scenes since every impact resonated through the front and center speakers in my home theater. Punches and kicks did not come off as canned sounds like in a lot of films but had a genuine feel. Sound engineers did great work in that regard. One thing I noticed Soderbergh did often was use music in non dialogue scenes frequently which some may find annoying. I actually found the music complimented the fight scenes well.

Extras

Extras in this film were rather limited. I am not a big viewer of extras but one focused on Gina Carano's fight training and the other on the male leads (Channing Tatum, Antonio Banderas, Michael Fassbender, Michael Douglas, Bill Paxton and Ewan McGregor) that shared screen time with Gina Carano.

My Take

Haywire at first glance has the makings of an action classic but I felt let down after the credits rolled. Gina Carano minus her altered voice did a great job in her acting debut and had awesome chemistry with all the male leads. She had natural screen presence which is something very  fighters and pro wrestlers lack when they transition to acting. Fight choreography was the high point of this film due to the very close proximity of the camera during fights.  Carano did a great job making the fights look believable and showcased her MMA and Muay Thai background well.  The plot of the film though was very paint by numbers like most action thrillers which is something I did not expect from Steven Soderburgh after seeing his other work. The film ended abruptly and really failed to close out certain plot points which again considering the director was a big blemish.

Recommendation

Haywire is a solid action film that does not demand repeat viewing sadly. If you are a fan of Steven Soderburgh then you may want to check this out but I can't in good faith recommend this as a purchase if anything it's rental worthy at best.