Most reviewers seem to be focusing on the political aspects of this film and how former allies are now enemies, etc., etc. Unfortunately that kind of review has been done to death, and there is really no way to resolve this problem without checking yourself into a mental hospital. People just need to understand that things were different back then and the nature of politics is change. I really have no interest in that point of view at all when watching this film. What really bothers me is how completely unrealistic it portrays warfare and battlefield operations. Truth is, Rambo should've been dead ten times over. For instance, when the Russian gunship drops the bomb just before Rambo drops into the cave, it would've been completely reasonable to expect a bomb of that size to not only produce a larger explosion, but collapse the roof of the cave onto Rambo. Then, when Trautman and Rambo take cover from the Russian army in the trench, one has to wonder if the Russian troops were trained by the same guys who trained the stormtroopers in Star Wars. What should've been like shooting fish in a barrel became a total farse for the Russians. Just lob a few grenades in there and watch the body parts go flying! And isn't it funny how a molotov cocktail will disable a t-64 tank? I mean, I could understand if it was a t-34, but a 64? The tank doesn't even seem to suffer any physical damage, and runs fine when Rambo uses it. Yet, for some reason the Soviet tank crew seems obliged to evacuate it. Not only that, but a tank that requires several crewmembers to operate can now be driven by ONE guy when Rambo hijacks it! Not only can he act as a driver, but as a gunner too by somehow managing to reload the main gun while driving the tank at the same time! Finally, is it even necessary to state how dead Rambo would be as soon as he hit that chopper? The best one can hope for in this movie is the music, unfortunately the rest of it makes about as much sense as a G.I. Joe cartoon, but at least with a cartoon you know what you're getting. Is it too much to ask for some level of realism in a movie like this?