Since people like to qualify their reviews of this with religious affiliation, I will start by saying I am agnostic-atheist.  I can say a lot of what's already been said in this review, but feel that is redundant.  It is a funny mockumentary film, but doesn't really bring any of the strong rational arguments against religion, instead appealing to the emotional.  Worse, Bill Maher, in trying to present rational arguments at one point, argues something that is factually very questionable. IE: the comparisons between Horus and Jesus; the description of Horus in Budge's translation of the Book of the Dead does not say half of what is claimed by Bill Maher.  For Bill to claim the religious overlook the facts and then make poorly grounded claims in the film only makes it easier for people to refute his whole argument.  In Bill's defense, the claim was originally made by someone else in a published work, but how hard is it to check your facts when Budge's translation of the book of the dead is available in electronic form for free and can easily be searched using text find.  I will not recommend this to friends and family on this basis alone.  The second problem the film has an ending that I can't really figure if it is serious or meant as a mocking of agnostics/atheists as well.  He presents his own doomsday prophecy that even I as an atheist find alarmist.  I just had to ask "Are you serious?" because he mocks the religious for their doomsday beliefs then asserts that their beliefs will cause a doomsday.  Like saying "Repent ye believers for the end is nigh."  What???  I honestly can't see how Bill Maher got the reputation as an intellectual when he is willing to do such intellectually dishonest things.
There are reasons religious beliefs are harmful, and aside from the very obvious example of religious extremists, Bill misses these entirely.  If you are agnostic or atheist or on the fence about your own religion, you may get a chuckle from this film, but if you want material that addresses the real problems of religion get something from Shermer or Dawkins.