Fantastic acting and screenplay all around bring one into the lives of a family torn by monetary, materialistic, overextended desperation, showing how easily "one of us" can get sucked into a downward spiral of events in order to maintain a level of decorum and standard of living that we are used to and seemingly must have, demonstrating how a basic lack of character and a "touch of evil" can pervade this struggle and lead to murder and deception even at the expense of one's own family. This movie hits very close to home, with all of our middle class struggles, calling into question how far we are willing to "stretch the boundaries" in order to "white lie" just enough to maintain who we THINK we are, and thereby get ourselves trapped down the slide of no return. One watches in pain and horror as Hoffmann's character devolves from an upper middle class successful real estate accountant into a "soul death" where desperation is the English way of surviving, where most of us less selfish (in this case, Hoffman's attempt at self-preservation is truly more selfish than a suicidal end to his life would have been) souls would come to the point of likely committing suicide in order to escape this inevitable fate.

One is led to feel for Hawke's character as a victim of circumstance, and yet he cannot be totally exonerated due to several flaws in his character as well as indicated in the film. The father of the Hawke/Hoffman brothers likewise cannot escape scrutiny via his hell-bent quest for vengeance, which results in a rather sad climax.

A warning: this is certainly not ANY sort of feel-good movie. You will be touched by this movie in ways not initially intended, and not necessarily desired. BUT, you will not escape this movie's experience without serious introspection and movement of your soul, one way or the other.

Recommended, but only if you are very emotionally stable and or have the support of those close to you who are. Watch this movie with your (mature) family members. You will need the support. "The Notebook" is a similar style movie, but even it has a generally positive outlook. "Before the Devil Knows..." leads to a fatalistic lack of hope, despair, and death.

Be ye cautiously warned. The acting is first notch and one believes and experiences each characters' plight and expends a ton of emotional energy in just viewing this film. Hawke has grown immensely, but Hoffmans' continual mumbling and trailing off of words and resulting occasional unintelligibility is starting to annoy me (in many movies of his), I must say. Find a way to watch this movie, but plan it carefully, and don't watch it alone...