There are many ways to keep your adrenaline up; and Chev Chelios is going to need every one of them to stay alive... What they actually meant is that there are many excuses to do wacky things, and Chev Chelios have got the one to do all kinds of crap.

Now, this is not a mental movie. This is an outrageous ride through the last hours of life of an unlikely person, a professional hit man (and the unlikely events of such). Chev is not following any conventions, nor is he taking prisoners; once he hits the gas of his vehicle, the action starts and won't stop.

This is a quite fun movie to watch. Now, weather or not exists some Chinese synthetic poison, that thing sure delivers an excuse to somehow glue the unexplainable and/or ridiculous action sequences that happen thru LA. The direction was also quite refreshing: it was like the guy actually believed the story and tried to jump us into the adrenaline driven last moments of Chev Chelios. We also get a break at the elevator scene, were we are explained for the bits of the movie we did not get. Stathan's acting is decent, and I like the Ricky Verona character and his unintended comic relief liners.

There is a ton of action on this movie: cops chase Chev thru a mall, he gets in a bar fight, breaks havoc in an hospital, runs thru the street with a hard-on, shoots hit men, has sex with his girlfriend, gets into a car chase-shooting situation, etc.

Now, there's been some controversy about the China Town scene, were good-old Chev has sex with his girlfriend in front of a lot of Chinese people, a scene that breaks today's feminism standards on movies. Well, I guess there's where your sense of humor must be harnessed. And if you don't have any left, let me tell you that if you tear your clothes for Chev having consensual sex with his girlfriend at a public place, but you do not utter a word about him armored-robbing medicines from a hospital, well, then your hypocrisy gauges must be re-calibrated.

It is a great movie for action fans.