In the wake of Charlton Heston's death, I decided to have a marathon viewing of his films. I rewatched many of my favorites and sought out some of those I had never seen.

It had been a long time since I'd watched "The Omega Man" and it seems very dated now. Made in 1971, it is very much a product of it's time, full of bad fashions, outdated slang, and late 60's sensibilities (plus, every black character sports a big afro).

The first 30 minutes of "Omega" is somewhat faithful to "I Am Legend," the novel on which it is based, at least more so than the recent Will Smith movie. Heston's character, Robert Neville, has carved out a lonely life as the last man on earth. The creatures who rise at night are not vampires, but the victims of a plague caused by germ warfare. They pursue Neville and talk to him like in the novel rather than being mindless brutes.

The night people, who dress in hooded robes and call themselves "The Family," are like a group of undead albino hippies. Their leader spouts all kinds of pseudo-philosophical babble and rants about how Neville must be destroyed. They are creepy in some ways, lurking around in the shadows, but mostly they come across as annoying.

But once Neville encounters a group of young people who are resistant to the plague, the movie deviates significantly from the book and goes downhill fast. Neville joins them as they try to avoid the Family's clutches, leading to a lame and abrupt ending.

However, the worst thing about "Omega Man" is the score. I don't know what the composer was thinking, but the music throughout is wildly incongruous with the subject matter. It's hard to feel fear or suspense when elevator music is playing in the background.

So, is "Omega Man" worth seeing? Yes. It's an interesting artifact of pre-"Star Wars" science fiction. And if you are a Heston fan, it's one of the films in his classic sci-fi trilogy (which also includes "Planet of the Apes" and "Soylent Green.") There are some suspenseful moments and the sense of loneliness is effectively conveyed at the beginning. Just be prepared for dated dialogue, cheesy music, and a disappointing ending.