When the flyer for Brotherhood of the Wolf first graced my TV screen, I immediately jumped up from the couch and raced to my computer to check out its website. The realization that the film was subtitled did not dampen my excitement. In fact, I was even more intrigued-and frustrated that I would have to wait so long to find out what French film could offer the horror genre. Moreover, I love werewolf movies, and BotW certainly seemed to be one. Would it stand the test of time alongside such greats as The Howling and An American Werewolf in London ? 
In a word: no. But not because BotW is a bad film. Actually, it was excellent. Well-acted and suspenseful, this epic kept me guessing right up to the end, even if that end was about a half hour too long in coming. Yet at nearly two and a half hours, it contained enough gore and violence to keep most horror fans tuned in. The opening sequence in which a young woman in ripped apart by an unseen monster was especially gripping. For those viewers also interested in stunning and unusual visuals, this film will certainly satisfy. 
Still, it has its problems. 
First off, it adds nothing to the horror genre because it isn't really a horror movie at all. Startling and action-packed, yes, but not at all horrific. Call it a...historical forensic film, if you will, with the emphasis on historical. That's where the other problem comes in. 
Historical horror is my favorite type. However, 17th century hairstyles and social mores do not accuracy make. Authenticity is paramount. Sadly, BotW blows accuracy out of the water with its Mani character, an Iroquois native transplanted to provincial France. 
Don't get me wrong: Mark Dacascos is a great actor, though the casting of an Oriental gent as a North American native will raise some eyebrows. More iffy, however, is the Oriental fighting style this native displays. Imagine Crouching Tiger, Hidden Werewolf , replete with roundhouse kicks and walking up opponents faces very, very quickly. This Kung-Pow-Pow action, as well as a somewhat improbably weapon near the film's finish, sticks out terribly, completely ruining all chance of suspension of disbelief. 
That said, Brotherhood of the Wolf is still a good movie. A movie completely misrepresented as a horror and suffering from an overabundance of artistic license, but a good movie nonetheless. As the first film to be reviewed by Malefica, I give it 3 and 1/2 stars out of 5, with a half being docked for length and a full star snipped off for the glaring inaccuracies. But that scene at the beginning...brrrr.