Lemon Tree is a professionally made film. Israeli films like the Lemon Tree and others like James Journey to Jerusalem, Beaufort, Waltzing With Bashir and Syrian Bride cause great damage to Israel with their negative depiction of Israelis. There are extremes on both sides, rich, poor, strong or weak, but the general tendancy of the leftist liberal Israeli filmmakers is to complain, point out what's bad about Israel, criticize rather than show us what's beautiful and positive, i.e., Israeli doctors saving the lives of hundreds of Palestinians in Israeli hospitals, Arab-Israeli students enjoying one of the highest standards of education, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, national medical insurance, benefits Jews in Arab countries never enjoyed. Rather they were persecuted, and 800,000 of them were expelled from their homes from 1948-1950. Mostly Israelis in Israeli films are seen as unsympathetic, brutal bullies abusing the "poor victimized" Palestinians, while the Palestinians are glorified as heroic, resisting Israeli racism, far from the truth. Whenever Israelis deal with the Palestinians they are apologetic, forgetting the thousands of Israeli civilians and soldiers (young sons & daughters of Israel) murdered and maimed by Arab wars and Palestinian terror spanning 60 years since the birth of the nation, and going back to the 1800's culminating with the slaughter of the entire unarmed Jewish population of Hebron in 1929. One must also remember that Palestinians murdered and maimed 100,000 Christians in Lebanon which provoked the Christian revenge at Sabra and Shatila that got extensive media coverage while atrocities committed by the Palestinians & Muslims were and still are covered up out of fear of offending them, i.e., following the 9/11, and Ft. Hood murders (now determined that he was acting alone, a man suffering from great stress. I ask, if he was suffering from stress and acted alone, why did he prepare so professionally for his murder spree, and cry Allahu Akbar as he gunned down his victims, instead of just taking his own life?). Israelis should learn PR from the Arabs who will never, ever criticize their suicide bombers and terrorist gunmen, rather they celebrate them as great heroes martyers, and boast rather than express guilt over their murder and maiming of civilians. Film, Syrian Bride, by the same director shows the Syrian-Druze as hating Israel. Why not make a film about the thousands of heroic Israeli-Druze who serve in elite Israeli combat units and love Israel and serve in the Isreali army with honor? Anyone seeing these negative Israeli films as this lemon Tree, gets a distorted view of Israel and its valiant people, and I deplore these films and the leftist Israel Film Center that supports these Israel bashing movies. One yearns to see Israeli films return to days of when Israel was represented by the lumnious and humane I Love You Rosa, and The Policeman.