Perhaps I had rented "The Eyes Of Tammy Faye" or seen it first on cable it's hard to recall. What's crystal clear is the impact it had on me.

I suppose like most who are as outside of the secular, fundamentalist strong hold Tammy Faye was little more than a cartoon to me, someone to be laughed at for a moment and quickly forgotten.But the joke, if there was one, was most definitely on me.

The documentary succeeds in stripping away the cruelty of the media hype surrounding her - and at the end of the day and certainly by the end of the film you see her as the fearless and forgiving person of both strength an faith that she was in truth and in life.She was uniq ue to say the least and a survivor to say the most.

The film is accurate in the portrayal of how Falwell robbed the Bakers of PTL and shed new light with painfully accurate detail of how Tammy was manipulated and abused by the heavy, greed based hierarchy of Evangelical Christians. Tammy never succumbed - not entirely to their hate driven mantra, instead she remained true to herself and her core beliefs that God didn't create garbage and dirt. We were all, even us LGBT folk children of God. And at that time this was an awfully brave position to take.

The first person to physically hug someone with AIDS publicly. She was fearless and in her own quiet way fighting  against the tainted ideology of Fanatical Fundamentalist Christians by refusing to be bullied -  as a woman and a person of faith.The documentary has it's light hearted moments and I would imagine even the most critical curmudgeon would find themselves cheering her on while falling victim, and happily so to her endearing charm.

Sold out by the men in her life - and towards the end abandoned by Messner himself. Her core beliefs were never shaken. Not her belief in the human condition, her love of people, her fierce individuality and of course her faith. A brilliant documentary that looks without grand standing or squinting into into her daily struggles and the ghosts that haunted her.

The Eyes Of Tammy Faye is bound to open another pair of eyes - your own.