I have to admit to the same technical difficulties with my DVD as others have reported.  Once in a while it goes out of focus and even seems to freeze at one point.  The edition I have has a different cover than the one on Amazon.Com but the company and the double-movies are the same.
I bought the DVD for THE KILLER SHREWS and it is the most entertaining of the two films.  While the costumed dogs are a bit hokey, with a little imagination, it works fine.  Anyway, puppets are used for close-ups.  The premise is simple.  The over-sized mice eat anything that moves and the only food left are the people on the island.  The people have to get to the boat or die.  We are spared the gore so common in movies these days but there is still a lot of suspense.  You never know when one of the hungry beasts is going to pop up.  If they bite you, you're dead.  There is poison in their saliva.  After that, you're dinner.  There are some recognizable actors in the film, too, familiar from programs like the Dukes of Hazzard and Gunsmoke.  Oh, by the way, the beginning seems a bit truncated and starts abruptly.  I seem to remember a school-type mini-documentary (only a few seconds) at the begining with footage of real shrews. It is missing from the DVD and may be the result of a poor master film copy.
As for THE GIANT GILA MONSTER, the lizard is not really scary and the miniature sets look like miniature sets.  Don Sullivan is the likeable hero, a hard-working boy down on his luck but able to sing.  He decides to use some nitro he had in storage to fight the creature.  Convenient for sure, but don't we all keep some handy for a stray monster?  The kid is so cleaned-cut, friends with the sheriff no doubt, and forcing his gang to behave, that we have to wonder if the movie's makers were trying to win parents over.  There was a lot of negative opinion about the wild ways in 50's movies.  
The director Ray Kellogg liked using foreign beauties in his films.  Both movies feature a love interest with an accent, one from France and the other from Sweden.  Indeed, Ingrid Goude in THE KILLER SHREWS was a Miss Universe Beauty Pageant Winner.
>No blasphemous or dirty words.
>No nudity or sexual content.
>Plot Violence but nothing graphic and no gore.
Guaranteed to please fans of old horror movies and to bore the kids-- big time.