I will admit this now, before i start the review. Rocky is my all-time favourite film, something you probably didn't know about me.

Rocky follows the story of Rocky Balboa, a boxer whose career takes a tough turn, subject to fighting mediorce talent and dealing with a fierce timekeeper, the owner of the gym. His days are dominated by being a lone shark for a lazy boss and mainly boxing matches at night to scrap up money. Rocky idolises the current Heavyweight Champion, who he claims "took his best shot", but when a disaster strikes with his fortcoming match with Mac Lee Green, a boxing promoter comes calling and Rocky's life changes.................

Rocky is a simple film with a low budget made under one million dollars. The most important aspect of this, is what happens to the central character, the focus and subsquent change, the chance he receives.

What i loved about Rocky could be made up in the following points which are: his desire to make his voice heard; his kindness and wanting to be understood, where his intelligance lacks and the determination to prove himself worthy.

Often regarded as the born to play role, Stallone made Rocky an outcast, where teasing and patornising comments, hurt him personally as his he always considered a retard. Stallone makes Rocky feel, he can do this, but doesn't withstand any oppertunity without real guidance. You care about Rocky, because he isn't nasty, selfish or bitter, he is a geniune human being, a man who wants society to notice his kindness rather than inteligance.

Talia Shire co-stars as Adrian the shy girl who works in the Pet Shop, whom Rocky has affection for, but is bullied by the more experienced and able Gloria. Her performance shows the boost in her confidence during, especially with the encouragement by Rocky, who they draw together since they are able to fill in gaps of judgement.

The scene stealing performance however, belongs to Burgess Meredith as Mick, the fierce timekeeper who is protrayed as a fragile, broken hearted man, unfulfiled by his once miserable boxing career. His temper, often gets the better of his personality and often struggles to understand Rocky's stance.

Other performances of noteworthy include the abusive, arrogant, dependant on drink, Pauline, Adrian's brother and the role of Apollo Creed, who was not patrotic in his finest stride but willing to take a gamble to please his nation.

The editing of Rocky focuses on Rocky's friendship with Paulie; his apparent, gentle relationship with Adrian who encouraged him to go all the way, Rocky's training sequences, especially the touching run to Phildelphia Art Museum, a glowing moment and the long dragging fight.

The music to Rocky is enthuastic with the introduction of the thumping muted trumpet fanfare right through to the closing slender, but soft operatic of a string quartet, highlighting the feelings that we have just witnessed.

Rocky was definteley the worthwile winner of Best Picture, a true landmark in film. Rocky changed cinema altogether with a downbeat American white-collar community in the abstrait, which a man wants to escape from to succeed. Rocky is a classic and don't you "ever" forget that.