Boy, this is a tough one. The original "Night of the Living Dead" is a landmark genre milestone, deserving buckets of praise. Despite pitiful actors, crude make-up effects and a budget from hell,  George A. Romero really struck a nerve in 1968. He created a classic that  still to this day stands out as one of the best. A classic in no need of  any additional scenes...
Therefore, I cannot for the life of me explain  how much I HATE this new version of the film. The 15 minutes of new footage  brings absolutely nothing to the story. Only confusion and irritation.  There is a new religious angle (given to us by the most hysterical and  hideously overacted priest in cinematic history), that completely ruins the  quiet mood of the original. Some extra gore-scenes and shots of more modern  looking ghouls have been added, replacing several well known zombie shots  from the 60's version.  
The soundtrack has been completely replaced by  modern synthesized music, a move that finally puts the lid on the original  movie, turning it into a modern day techno extravaganza with the 60's  atmosphere of a Marilyn Manson concert. The most tremendously clumsy and  idiotic fault is that the sound is out of sync with the action in many  scenes, which really makes you wonder who in God's name approved the final  print. The only good thing I can say about this new edition is that the  picture quality has never been better. Super sharp and crystal clear, the  best transfer ever. 
I really suffer with Mr. Romero... His first  masterpiece has been bashed by critics, truncated by censors and marketed  by greedy people who ripped him off financially. It has been remade and  restored with terrible results and he will forever be associated with every  worthless new experiment, churned out by dollar hungry amateurs determined  to bank in on his name.
I sincerely hope he had nothing to do with this  release. Romero is a quality-buff, adamant about the perfection of his  work. He is hardly mentioned in the narration, and I'm pretty sure he's  happy about it. Because no matter what happens, George A. Romero will  always be the one and only inimitable master of the living dead. 
No one  can ever take that away from him...