If you go into THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY with the idea that you will learn anything factual about Michelangelo, Pope Julius II, the Sistine Chapel, and Renaissance Rome--much less art--you are in for a rude awakening.  Historians were quick to point out that the film was even less historically accurate than the Irving Stone bestseller on which it was based.  Film critics were also harsh: while they described the film as competent, by and large they felt that a movie so crammed with notable talents should have been quite a bit better than it actually was.

There is some truth to these accusations.  As a whole, THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY is essentially a prettified and cleaned-up 1965 idea of the characters and story it offers.  Even the alleys are well-swept and the servant drudges remarkably clean, and in terms of visuals and designs the film is nothing so much than THE SOUND OF MUSIC gone Italian.  The dialogue is remarkably pretentious and the plot extremely repetitive.  And certainly neither Charleton Heston nor Rex Harrison were anything like Michelangelo or Pope Julius II.

Even so, the film works unexpectedly well on its own merits.  Heston and Harrison may be incredibly miscast, but they both play with considerable conviction, and their clashing styles lend surprising believability to their scenes together.  While a more accurate portrait of the era would be more interesting, one can't complain about the entertainment value involved; there is always something to see on the screen.  And although director Carol Reed and writer Philip Dunne play fast and loose with the facts, the story they offer is quite entertaining.

This is not a great masterpiece of cinema, but it is a lot of fun to watch--as long as you don't take it too seriously as either history or art.  The bonus package is quite slight, but the restoration is very nice, and the film comes with the original and interesting documentary on Michelangelo's works that prefaced it when it was in theatrical release.  While I would not place this on a short of list of films to own, it is a pleasant enough way to spend a rainy night, particularly if you are looking for a film the entire family can watch together.

GFT, Amazon Reviewer