Well for those of you who have followed my reviews on the uk site (if they ever got posted) this is the promised review of the newest Hellraiser entry. Hellseeker.
This is a real tough review to do. As most of you will of realised and appreciated by now - the majority of horror films should always be rated on a different scale to that of normal films. There general crassness is something that can be savoured and enjoyed when pulle doff with cetain panache, or compensated for with wonderful characters such as this series Pinhead. The problem here, lies in the fact that it is still a far slicker, smoother, and downright better film than most horror flicks (and especially the poor status of most of this trashy but fun saga). But despite this - the movie lacks any true soul. Or evena r eal sense that the film-makers were really enjoying themselves.
The story itself is the main problem. It would be fine if it wasn't for the fact that it is sooooo damn close to the previous chapter Hellraiser: Inferno. and whether you hate it or love it (personally i found it by far the greatest Hellraiser film up there with the original)Inferno undoubtably boasted originality, style, and a brave sense of direction. This film is handled with the same amount of watchable intrigue, and i never really got bored, but the whole thing should of been made later on...maybe in a couple of sequels time - to distance itself from Inferno.
For Pinhead lovers, beware...he turns up here about as much as in Inferno, but delivers his usual panache in the form of Doug Bradly (starting to get a little too old for the role now maybe?? but hell - i love him). He does seem to be growing slightly less scary with each outing however.
The return of Kirsty Cotton is a welcome one, even if we don't see much of her either....her most enjoyable moment being the obvious set up at the end that leaves the film open to what could be some damn fine sequels (rumours are - they're trying to fiml Hellraiser 7 and 8 back-to-back...so here's hoping they're actually meant to be seen together as a double bill with the return of Kirsty vs Pinhead).
The director (although this is his first feature film) handle sit all finely enough - having worked on manymany good and bad horrorfilms (including the director of photography on the likes of House On Haunted Hill and Valentine) his eye for colours and contrast shines through, and whilst its still all a little untextured , its far better than most of the films he's merely collabarated on. 
The DVD is good. With a crisp widescreen presentation and 5.1. surround, a bunch of trailers (though none for the film - as usual...come on dimension !) some pointless alternate takes, a brief look at the special effects and a commentary by the director. Oh - and by far the finest typography design on the front cover of the whole series ! It matter to me !
So then - a mixed bag. For a quick glance to my reviews of the whole series...check out my stared guide below....and until next time....send e-mails to dimension to make them make the double-bill !..
Hellraiser ...1/2 (sheer originality but slightly dated)
Hellraiser 2 : Hellbound ... (crass and tacky)
Hellraiser 3 : Hell On Earth ...(stupid but fun in a daft way)
Hellraiser : Bloodline ... (a mix of good and really,really bad)
Hellraiser : Inferno ...1/2 (a masterfull chapter, fantastic)
Hellraiser : Hellseeker ... (an adept but unoriginal telling)