My experience with foreign films is tragically limited. I've watched a few mainstream hits such as <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CXR4">Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon</a>,<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002DYKP88">Hero Special Edition</a>, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000F4LPJ6">Battle Royale: Director's Cut (Collector's Edition)</a>, and then a few beyond that aren't worth mentioning. And my experience with John Woo's films is even more limited, encompassing only his John Travolta/Nicholas Cage-driven ventures. So, I didn't quite know what I was getting into when I rented RED CLIFF. I had read the reviews and seen all the five stars, but people tend to get excited over visually spectacular foreign films like HERO. So I popped in the first part of the film, then the second part, and I quickly found out that all the hype was justified.

This marks the first time I can honestly say that I want to watch a nearly five hour movie a second time.

The basics: RED CLIFF takes place at the beginning of the third century CE and revolves around three warring kingdoms of China. This conflict eventually climaxes in the Battle of Red Cliffs, where the Emperor's forces clash with the allied armies of two warlords. That's the simplified take, but there's nothing simple about this movie.

To westerners like myself, the first half hour was tough to get through; getting all the names right, figuring out why everyone's fighting and what they're all fighting over was difficult. But as the pace slows down, the movie deliberately takes us around and allows us to get to know each of the many main characters individually. This was done very well; everyone gets some rather deep characterization. Everyone had their own quirks, personality, and attitude, so by the time they all start mingling it was hard to get lost again.

The battles that take place between the three kingdoms are vast, bloody, and mind-blowing. By the end of PART I, I was already impressed; the choreography and action rivals some of the best parts of other epics like TROY and THE LORD OF THE RINGS. But by the end of PART II, oh man; the bar had been kicked up to new heights. It's hard to believe the scale of some of these battles within the context of a movie, let alone believe it when you realize that all of this actually happened.

But make no mistake, this isn't a humorless, four hour bloodbath. The action doesn't drive the film; it's the characters and the story that make up the backbone of RED CLIFF. I came to adore each and every character, their sense of honor, their reasons for going to war, and the friendship that allowed them to best the odds. I even came to sympathize with the characters on the other side of the battle, the Emperor's armies. John Woo has done all he can to ensure that while you're rooting for one side, you understand the motives of both, so that the outcome is perhaps that much more ambiguous.

I really came to adore RED CLIFF. It has something for everyone: an historical epic that plays at Chinese mysticism, memorable characters, romance, comedy, friendship, and some of the most intense action set pieces ever put to film. Anyone who even THINKS that they might like this movie should give it a try. It might be over four hours long, but it did more to hold my attention than other movies a quarter of its length.

And many of you might have noticed an additional THEATRICAL VERSION of RED CLIFF available. I would highly recommend that you opt for this INTERNATIONAL VERSION; I have no idea how they could cut this movie in half and still make it presentable. I have no idea how they could cut this movie in the first place! A grave disservice to a near-perfect film.