Along with the movie series SAW, this is the best horror movie to watch where the bad guys win.  The story was believable and the events could happen from 1969-1973.  I thought the prequel did a great job explaining the origin of Leatherface, Old Monty, and Sheriff Hoyt.  The Hewitt family are criminally insane and you don't want to be around any one of them. When the movie was over, I felt like I witnessed a horrible event.  This movie captured the impending doom of the characters very well and there are a couple of surprises in the movie that I will not reveal.  I kept thinking to myself, "Leatherface is the deadliest personification of evil."  Leatherface was terrifying to look at, as well as watching him perform his terrible deeds.  The prequel showed me why Leatherface is lethal compared to the other horror characters we're familiar with such as Jason (Friday the 13th); Freddy (Nightmare on Elm Street); Michael Myers (Halloween); and Jigsaw (Saw).  I believe we will be seeing more parts of the movie when it comes out on DVD as an unrated version.  After seeing it at the movie theater, I felt like there were some parts cut out to avoid an X rating.  I was very satisfied with the movie and I think it is a horrifying movie to watch.

  If you liked the original TCM movie and didn't like the 2003 remake, you might not like this movie.  I loved the 2003 remake and with this prequel, it goes together great!  Now, you can watch them together as one movie.  The problem I had with the original TCM was the story of teenagers investigating a grave robbery which sounded bogus to me and it seeemed like an idea for a Scooby Doo cartoon.  The other problem I had with the original TCM is the hitch hiker character.  He was irritating, over the top acting, and extremely silly, which didn't help make the movie scary for me.  Don't get me wrong, the original TCM was ahead of it's time for some of the most arresting horrifying images you would ever see.  And of course, the dinner and the original Leatherface was disturbing.  I think the remake of Leatherface is much more deadlier, disturbing, and terrifying than the original Leatherface.  I'd rather fight the original Leatherface versus the new one.

  I don't want to go into what happens and how it ends.  But I can say I was very satisfied with "The Beginning."  I feel like it's the best horror movie of 2006 with "The Descent" being in second place. It's going to be hard for a horror movie to top "The Beginning" because I have this feeling that new movies trying to compete with "The Beginning" will become one dimensional trying to outdo the gore, the evil character, or the setting.  I liked this better than the original TCM, however, I liked the 2003 remake the best since I was rooting for the heroine (Jessica Biel) to kick Sheriff Hoyt and Leatherface's butt!

  Jonathan Lieberman was an excellent director and I'd like to see what other movies he plans to direct in the future.  Also, the writers did an excellent job of creating a movie that left me feeling uneasy throughout the whole ordeal.  This movie made me feel like I don't want to encounter any of these characters since they really give me the creeps.  I don't want to visit the house because bad things will happen and there's no escape.  Also, I don't want to drive throught these small, isolated ghost towns because bad things will happen beyond your control.  Overall, I felt like I watched a horrible nightmare unfolding and it would be awful to actually live through this experience.

  By the way, I wouldn't be surprised if they come out with a sequel that takes place right after "The Beginning."  I'm sure it would happed if "The Beginning" does very well at the box office.