Absolutely loved this film series in it's original non-extended release and was eager to see it in an uncut version. Not very happy with this particular DVD compilation. Each of the first 3 discs contains two parts, but there is no way to 'play all' in the bare-bones menu options, so the action is interrupted somewhat by having to select and setup twice for each disc. There is a lot of graininess and/or pixelation, much more akin to a streaming video than what one might expect in a physical disc. Also, the video on the third disc, containing parts 5 and 6, is choppy and the disc will not play *at all* in my laptop player. (Disc not recognized.) So much for portability. I had hoped to be able to watch this while on a long road trip (I won't be in the driver's seat). I do appreciate the use of subtitles rather than voice-over (never a fan of dubbing).

Overall, the quality of this set is very disappointing. Very poor, substandard transfer to DVD. Hope a better set of discs is released soon.

UPDATE 5.19.12:
Sent the set back for a replacement. Replacement set had same issues. Again, the third disc, Hornet's Nest, will not play in my laptop. However, I did manage to get it to play in a much older (at least 10 yr) stand-alone DVD player.

Just want to add that, while this particular set is below par in quality (despite its hefty price tag) the *content* of the extended series is great. This is a first-rate trio of thrillers. Noomi Rapace and Michael Nyqvist are amazing, with characters who are compellingly and convincingly fleshed out. Rapace's portrayal of the darkly brilliant, quirky, and bitterly disenfranchised Lisbeth Salander is breathtaking. Nyqvist plays perfect counterpoint as Mikael Blomqvist, the calm, dogged, community-minded activist-cum-sleuth. Together, they are explosive. The Millennium Trilogy, as conceptualized for the Swedish screen, is a long, wild, gasp of a ride, and a very satisfying cinematic experience. I have also seen the English version of Dragon Tattoo with Daniel Craig, Rooney Mara, and Christopher Plummer. Unlike the original Swedish, the English version falls flat and fails to engage. The characters, unfortunately, get lost behind the actors, and their back stories - so seamlessly woven into the original - feel jumbled, rushed and incomplete in the Craig/Mara film. Not awful, by any means, but somehow generic by comparison. Nothing in the genre quite holds a candle to the Oplev/Alfredson rendition of the Dragon Tattoo Trilogy. Too bad I can only give this particular release of this 5-star series a 3-star rating.

Hopefully, a better-quality extended edition will be released that will do these films justice.