I have to chime in and agree with customers so far about the Ultraviolet digital copy. In the past I've always ordered versions with digital copies even if it means a few extra $$ as I would gain a copy for my iTunes library. Recently, though, Warner has gotten on the Ultraviolet bandwagon. Ultraviolet is a somewhat clunky online service that manages your copy for you. While you do technically receive a digital copy, you cannot import it to anything other than the Ultraviolet library. Those of us who enjoy the iTunes crossover will be sorely disappointed.

Lessons learned? Yes, and they are two-fold. First, when Amazon lists the movie with digital copy initially, there has not been an indication that the digital copy was any different than in the past. The 'Ultraviolet Digital Copy' that now appears in the header is new to those of us who placed the order early. In a sense, we're not getting what we've ordered. To be fair, this is NOT Amazon's fault. I'm also certain that they would accept a return/cancel the order for the simple reason that you won't get what you were expecting. So, the lesson here is to watch for the studio that is releasing the movie and keep in mind that they are likely employing Ultraviolet, and then act according to your preference even if the initial indication is that your copy is simply digital or Ultraviolet digital.

Second, figure out whether you mind Ultaviolet. Clearly, there is enough of an outcry against it that it appears Warner is making its customers unhappy. Protest by not buying the slightly marked up version with the digital copy and continue to lower the ranking here, which is clearly the case with the last Potter film considering the overwhelming number of single-star rankings. I'm still too dearly attached to the idea of having a copy to watch on my iPod or iPad so Ultraviolet remains a far, far inferior solution to the digital copy question. Will it stop me from buying versions with Ultraviolet digital copies? Maybe - but sometimes the difference in cost is very small, if we even have a choice in blu ray versions of the film.

Regardless, this is simply a move toward greater proprietorial behavior on the part of digital media providers. As much as technology opens up tremendous opportunities for crossover, it's only a matter of time before someone decides that they aren't making enough money or that they are losing too much control over their product, and then moves to change the rules, ultimately to the displeasure of the consumer. More one star reviews are likely on the way as we are persuaded less by the content and more by the 'packaging'.