The latest entry into what seems to be a continual procession of horror flicks in the last year is Final Destination.  The plot revolves around a teen who sees a horrific vision of the plane he and his friends have just boarded, exploding in mid-air.  He awakens in a cold sweat and panics when the events in his dream begin to unfold just as he'd seen them in the vision.  It's an excellent and engaging start to a movie that unfortunately slowly deteriorates into what's more or less typical horror fare.
 Final Destination is all about shock-value and on that note, the movie delivers. One particularly disturbing scene caught everyone so much by surprise that it caused numerous vocal reactions and left our audience of mostly teens and twenty-something's giddy for the next several minutes. This scene will, no doubt, be the subject of many high school lunchroom conversations for the next month or so.  Similar incidents occur throughout keeping you enjoyably edgy and about as overly paranoid as our onscreen cast of characters.  It must be noted that there are some hideous scenes of gore and death, but this movie is far less heavy-handed with them than other movies in the genre such as Scream 3. 
 Unfortunately, what starts off as a powerfully intense tale, gradually levels out into a movie full the usual irritants of idiotic behavior, gross inconsistencies, and silly plot lines so typical of horror.  If I see another person risk life and limb to save the family dog, I'm going to gag.  The movie goes from the seriousness of The Sixth Sense to the more or less tongue-in-cheek horror of I Know What You Did Last Summer, leaving me with mix emotions.  
 There can be little doubt, however, that Final Destination will make a lot of money and will be followed by numerous sequels in the coming years.  It is obviously designed to appeal to the less discriminating Generation X crowd, who will likely hail it as one of the greatest movies ever. More mature moviegoers, however, may find that it's pretty much a finely tuned re-hash of what already been done.  Nevertheless, if you want to see a movie for the sake of sheer shock value, I suggest you see this one.  You won't be disappointed. 
Jeter