I teach high school history, American and World to advanced placement students.  For some reason that I have never fathomed, it is extremely easy to find engaging and interesting videos on World History that students love and look forward to seeing (CNN's Millennium Series comes to mind along with the History Channel's Engineering Empire series).  But for American History-----good gosh!  Did they sit down and decide to make the narrators sound like they're going to sleep?  Do they want the students to keel over in their desks as their eyes roll up in the back of their heads?  I don't know, but it's amazing how out and out DULL most American History videos are.  There is one great exception----Ken Burn's Civil War.  That was probably the best documentary ever done for many reasons.  Exciting, interesting, etc.  Outside of the marginally-engaging History Channel's Ten Days That Changed America, I haven't found many documentaries to interest teenagers.  And when I saw that Ken Burns did a Thomas Jefferson program, I jumped at it.  Well, something happened to the master after the Civil War production.  The Jefferson documentary is like every other documentary you'll ever see----talking heads that will put you to sleep within seconds, and narration voice-over speakers who sound drugged into some kind of stupor.  It seems to me that most documentaries today follow this same formula.  I don't know why.  So for those of you seeking exciting documentaries on American History that will foster interest (and keep you awake), good luck.  There's a lot of good products on recent history, on Civil Rights, for instance, where you can actually see and hear the virulent racists speak for themselves and you can see archival footage of historical events.  But what's happened to the great story tellers like Shelby Foote?  You won't find many left.  And you sure won't find them in this well-research program on Jefferson.  But it's as dead as he is.  And I repeat that I love Ken Burns and still recommend his other products.  But not this one.