I had heard that this would be the Grudge installment that explains how the curse can be contained.  The first two films depicted something like exponential growth like a plague (each person infects a few more).  The world should have succumbed to a similar curse millennia ago if it worked that way, unless it's possible to stop it.  So, I had high hopes for a grand finale.

There were several characteristics of the earlier films that were hard for some to follow but added to the mystery (and fun) for me.
1) Moving around through time.  The viewer had to put the pieces together.  This drew me into the picture, had me feeling a need to understand the meaning of the time sequences so I could help the poor characters know how to fend off the creepy-crawlies.  In G3, it's a strictly linear time sequence.  Active thought not required.
2) Randomness of the villain.  In Japanese horror, so I've read, raw hate doesn't need a provocation to strike its target.  G3 Americanizes this with a revenge motive.
3) The exponential growth thing.  G3 tries to fudge the plots of the previous two films, depicting simply that the curse was "reborn" in Chicago rather than spreading there as a second outbreak location.

Last but not least, G1 and G2 had me on the edge of my seat to see how it would unfold.  (Again, the out-of-sequence depiction of time helped with that.)  G3 had me slumped way back on the couch predicting what was going to happen as much as 10 minutes in advance.

I don't share the perspective of those who had seen the Japanese version (Ju-on) first, so I really got into the first two installments; but alas, it seems the well of ideas has been used up. The Grudge has run its course, and I'm disappointed that it didn't wrap up with more of a bang.  The first two films really set the stage for a grand show-down, either containing the rapidly-spreading curse or seeing it destroy the earth.  Instead, it was a half-hearted effort as the direct-to-video marketing foretells.  If they make a Grudge 4, I will not make it a high priority to watch it.