Has anybody remarked upon the very sick basis of the film's plot, to wit, A woman has so fragile a psyche that each time she gets her heart broken she moves her entire family to another town? Huh? Wait a minute. What Locklear's character needs is a shrink. Imagine, for a moment, how often that can happen to a woman with her problem? Why do men treat her this way in the first place? How is it that she "gets her heart broken" over and over again, that's one issue; then, each time that happens she runs away from the entire region. This is some sick ***t, peeps. The cruelty Locklear's character perpetrates against her children is incalculable, and all because she can't handle her problems, and yet it is never suggested that she is truly sick emotionally and needs professional help. It's not that Jean is a perfectionist, because if that were her problem then it would be her doing the breaking up, but the men find a way to undermine and sabotage the relationship. In a subtler way, Locklear is subconsciously picking men who will disappoint her, not because they aren't perfect, but because they are bounders of one sort or another, fly-by-nights, heartbreakers. It can be argued that perfectionists find ways to undermine their own happiness by behaving in just this way, however, I believe Jean isn't that character. Furthermore, everyone knows - or should know - one doesn't need a "perfect man" to conquer this addiction, one needs to have the inner strength to tell this kind of man to take a hike and to be more aware and observant of the guys who aren't that way. I have found that therapy is the only way to go for someone like Jean who is as broken as they come.

Then, the way it is handled here is just clumsy, not funny, and so unlikely that the suspension of disbelief requires the help of the same architects who designed the Golden Gate Bridge. Movies based upon mix-ups and misunderstandings are common, of course, as this trope has been used in books and plays for centuries, sometimes quite successfully. Here it looks threadbare. But the cruelty against the kids here is played for laughs, and that is because the screenwriters clearly don't think that there is an underlying, fundamentally sick quality to it. They think it's just always the case: women get screwed over by bad men, not that the women to whom this happens are not dealing with the fundamental problem of sabotaging themselves. Wait, I'm not through...

A secret admirer who claims he is in love with a woman he has never spoken to and who knows nothing of him is called a stalker. This isn't the 1800's when women took a more innocent look at love, and further, trying to play Jean off as someone from another century doesn't work. Caroline Rhea enters a few lines from the real world about just this other side of things, not that it does any good. 2 stars only because I really like the Locklear girl.

OK, I'm done. And Locklear as a baker of fancy cakes?

All right, all right, I'm through.