I want to start by saying that like others I dislike the idea of the Ultraviolet digital copy, but that shouldn't be a reason to rate the actual movie one way or another, it would be like giving a one star review because you didn't like the cover art!.
Now to the film, I saw this in HDX on VUDU, and enjoyed it...to a point.
It's a complete change in direction from the first film, doesn't seem to follow on at all, and even the garbled comic book intro doesn't really resemble the events of the first movie.
It's done in a different style for sure, that's not necessarily a bad thing, but it does have a rock video, muddled feel.
Budget constraints obviously were in the driving seat, compared to the acting in the first movie, this is definitely worse, even Cage looks tired and bored most of the time, delivering lines as if they were on cue cards.
The story is laughably stupid and predictable, and any actors of note who appear tend to plod through the thin script.
All that said it has a ridiculous charm, this time out the Ghost Rider is much more of a diabolical maniac, and the transformation scenes with Cage trying to hold the beast back are a good laugh.
Quite a bit of action, some very good special effects, especially on the VMax bike they used will please fans of the genre, and I suspect the choppy camera work, flicking in and out of black screen, and slow motion make it look and feel like a comic book storyboard.
Locations for shooting are all Eastern Europe, again obviously driven by a small budget, and although the special effects are good, the whole thing is a bit ridiculous.
I enjoyed it as a stand alone movie, without the depth or story of the first movie for sure, but eye candy nonetheless.
When I first saw the trailer for this last year, I had expected a big budget sequel, and I didn't actually see or here of a theatrical release, which after seeing what's on display might explain the straight to DVD production feel.
3 stars, if you like this kind of stuff, it will generate a couple of hours of harmless fun, if you're looking for a meaningful sequel, don't bother.