Jean Jacques Annaud&#65533;s &#65533;Enemy at the Gates&#65533; comes on like the nasty younger brother to Speilberg&#65533;s &#65533;Saving Private Ryan&#65533;. In Speilberg&#65533;s vision, war is the final option by which Democracy can overcome Tyranny. In &#65533;Enemy at the Gates&#65533; war is the meat grinder into which Tyranny casts its constituents.
The beginning of &#65533;Enemy at the Gates&#65533; (EatG) deliberately echoes &#65533;Saving Private Ryan&#65533; (SPR) but is the exact antithesis to it. In SPR, American GIs storm ashore on the beaches of Normandy. Subjected to murderous German fire (graphically depicted), the American&#65533;s rely on leadership, firepower and clever tactics from experienced veterans to get them off the beach. 
The experience of war for the Russian conscripts of EatG is somewhat different. Arriving on the east bank of the Volga in locked cattle trucks, their first view of Stalingrad is that of hell. They are subjected to continuous air and artillery attack as they cross the Stygian Volga in flimsy boats with little or no protection. Those who try to escape into the river are summarily shot by the Commissars. Upon reaching the city itself, half the conscripts are handed rifles &#65533; the others are told to pick them up weapons as their comrades fall &#65533; and are sent straight into battle with no planning or leaders against a well armed and prepared foe. Slaughter ensues and the NKVD mercilessly shoots down the survivors that try and retreat to their own lines. 
Welcome to Stalingrad.
So begins a film of such potential and promise that it is hugely disappointing when it falls flat on its face. The story revolves around the exploits of Noble Sniper Vassili Zaitsev (Jude Law). According to legend, Zaitsev was such a threat to German morale that they sent the head of the German Sniper School, Major Konig (Ed Harris) to deal with him. So far so good. Add love interest in the form of Tania Chernova (Rachel Weisz) and a triangle with Commissar/friend Danilov (Joseph Fiennes) and the potential was there for an adult love story (and I don&#65533;t mean the XXX variety) set against a truly epic backdrop.
And what a backdrop! The recreation of the devastated city is truly awesome. Cold, yet burning, strewn with corpses and piled with rubble, the city itself becomes the most powerful character on the screen.
So what went wrong?
Well the actual script for a start. Basically, no relationship is developed between Fiennes and Weisz. This turns the &#65533;love triangle&#65533; into a toothless dramatic device as the conflict between the two men is ascribed a political motive. There is no progression in the relationships between the characters &#65533; they just seem to turn on and off as the vagaries of the script dictate. Also the Mrs Filipov character is meaningless &#65533; she serves only to act as a mother for Sasha, a character that could just as well have been an orphan. By doing this she just sucks up screen time that could have been better used elsewhere.
Nothing serves to tie the events together into a convincing narrative, which, considering that the most important battle of the Second World War is taking place, exhibits extreme laziness on the part of the script writer and the director. No overall impression of the battle is produced, so there is no sense of urgency in the Soviet position. A string of battles take place but the viewer is in no place to put the pieces together, to watch as the German stranglehold on the city tightens. As the film progresses, the individual characters seem oddly divorced from everything else that&#65533;s happening. Passing references are made to some significant landmarks, such as the Tractor Factory, the Chemical Works and the Department Store but the average viewer has no idea where these locations are and why they are important.
And to think it could all have been simply handled by placing the Danilov and/or Chernova characters in the 62nd Army headquarters makes the sloppy handling all the more mysterious.
Which brings us to the overall ambivalent treatment of the historical setting. No, I&#65533;m not complaining about irrelevant technical details such as when certain tanks were manufactured. But their is an overall disregard for the historical context of the setting. Using this film as a sole point of reference would leave you to believe that the Soviets were capable only of staging mass human wave attacks during the middle of the day and partying in the bunkers at night. In reality, it was the Soviet expertise in infiltration and night attacks that overcame the German superiority in air and artillery. Also, according to the film, the battle was managed by Kruschev (played excellently played Bob Hoskins) from a luxurious headquarters on the Eastern side Volga. No mention is made of Chuikov, the 62nd Army commander responsible for the defence of the city whose headquarters on the West bank of the Volga was frequently under direct German fire. The final Soviet victory is not attributed to any particular event either. One day, the Germans surrender. Why? There is not even a passing mention of the Soviet counter offensive that surrounded the German 6th Army in Stalingrad (this is doubly surprising as, in the film&#65533;s timeframe, the German&#65533;s were surrounded BEFORE the final showdown between Zaitsev and Konig).
One is also forced to wonder whether the German financing of the film was a consideration in the depiction of German forces, who are portrayed in much more even-handed light than is the Soviet Army.
So ultimately, the film fails. The true story of the battle of Stalingrad is so dramatic that if the film had followed the historical tension closely, a much more gripping film would have been the result. As it is we are left with a spectacular looking film (there has got to be an Oscar in there somewhere for set design) with some masterful moments and some relevant comments on the nature of tyranny and war. If only it had had a script&#65533;
It really only deserves 2.5 stars but for the magnificent set and the subject matter.
Watch it if you want, just make sure you watch Klimov's "Come and See"