Heaven's Gate is a bloated nightmare, a movie so boring that it tests even the most hardened bad film connoisseur, if Troll 2 and The Room are on one corner of the bad film realm Heaven's Gate is on the other, the section reserved for arrogant, quasi-art atrocities, that people sit through and praise to appear smart and cultured.  The only other bad film I can think of that resembles Heaven's Gate in terms of size and scope is Caligula and the latter is far more entertaining (and Malcolm Mcdowell is a better actor in a bad film than Christofferson is in a great film).  The one good thing I can say about enduring Heaven's Gate is that it makes you appreciate entertaining art and what actually having a talented director behind the helm means to a film.

The problem with the film starts right at the top, Michael Cimino is a director without vision, he's obsessed with beautiful set pieces, long panning shots of environments, and camera filters that make us visually see the grit of the west, of course none of this has any meaning.  A director's vision for a film should be the nucleus and everything else should be built from that (cinematography, character direction, etc.), Heaven's Gate is the result of a mess of fancy sets and long sequences without centralization.  The perfect example of this is the roller skating scene, which is about as entertaining as watching someone's old home movie of a late 80's roller rink birthday party.  Anyone can pick up a camera and point it at something, a director is supposed to be more, someone that paints with the lens, Michael Chimino is drawing stick figures.  Characters go from boring scene to boring scene being swallowed by large sets and exquisite environments, it's like watching ants crawl across the roof of the sistine chapel.  Even the dialog is enhaled by the ambience of the locales.  Now the snooty film buff might say this was brilliant direction, but in case I'm pretty sure the cigar is just a cigar.  I could go on and on, Heaven's Gate is a treasure of badness, any good critic could write a 200 page review of it and still have enough material for 500 more pages (historical inaccuracies not included).

That being said, should you buy Heaven's Gate, absolutely if you're a film student, watch it, endure it, take notes.  Just a warning though you'll need a heavy dose of Deadwood to get up from the hangover.