The 1990s were a rough period for Woody Allen. After a series of wonderful and highly varied films beginning with 'Take the Money & Run' in 1969, Allen's creativity began to fall off with 1987's sour drama 'September,' which was filmed twice with different actors due to Allen's dissatisfaction with the initial version.

From that point forward, Allen's career ran over increasingly rough ground, with the wildly overpraised 'Crimes and Misdemeanors' (1989) also being filmed twice and ultimately cobbled together from various versions of the script.

In his heyday, there was no such thing as a bad Woody Allen script, a bad performance in a Woody Allen film, and only rarely were the actors chosen miscast.

Allen commanded the best talent the business at the time had to offer, including Diane Keaton, Meryl Streep, Charlotte Rampling, Mary Beth Hurt, Jose Ferrer, Geraldine Page, Sam Waterston, Mia Farrow, E.G. Marshall, Jeff Daniels, Dianne Weist, and Michael Caine.

Throughout the 1990s, Allen soldiered on, making one weak and repetitive film after another, with 1994's hilarious 'Bullets Over Broadway,' and, to a lesser degree, 1999's poignant 'Sweet & Lowdown,' being the only truly bright lights among the films Allen wrote and directed during that era.

His films were now populated with second- and third-tier actors like Famke Jenson, Helen Hunt, Jason Biggs, Winona Rider, Lysette Anthony, Madonna, Tea Leoni, Miro Sorvino, Jonny Lee Miller, and Gretchen Mol; when major talent like Judy David and Leonardo DiCaprio were utilized, they were most often badly utilized.

The 'Greek chorus' segments in 'Mighty Aphrodite' (1995) are among the most embarrassingly bad scenes in any film by a major American director.

Among these weak films, most of which failed commercially, falls 1993's 'Manhattan Murder Mystery,' a movie stitched together from the remnants of Allen's and Marshall Brickman's original script for Allen's classic 'Annie Hall' (1977), which was, oddly enough, originally conceived as a murder mystery taking place in New York City.

There's no doubt that Allen's fans were thrilled to see him paired with Diane Keaton again, but the resulting 'Manhattan Murder Mystery' is trite, amateurish, ugly to look at, poorly written and directed, and worst of all, boring and highly implausible.  It's almost impossible to believe that the artist who produced such diverse and beautifully conceived films as 'Love & Death' (1975), 'Interiors' (1978), 'Manhattan' (1979), 'Stardust Memories' (1980), the underrated and waiting-to-be-rediscovered 'A Midsummer's Night Sex Comedy' (1982) and 'The Purple Rose of Cairo' (1985) made this film.

Even Keaton is terrible in an unfocused, overly-relaxed, and almost unprofessional performance, showing none of the poise, wit, and nuance she displayed in earlier Allen films, or her own vehicles, such as 'Baby Boom' (1987).

Angelica Huston, who gave such a grating performance (in an admittedly poorly written role) in 'Crimes and Misdemeanors,' is the sole bright light here, as Marcia Fox, a shrewd and aggressive author who easily figures out how the murder was committed.

The plot has New Yorkers Larry and Carol Lipton (Allen and Keaton), and their friend, Ted (Allen Alda), coming to believe that the Lipton's neighbor has murdered his wife.  The obsessive Carol seems far stranger and more dangerous than the man suspected of murder, and Larry's continual flippant comments fall embarrassingly flat ("taste my tuna casserole and tell me if I used too much hot fudge.").

Alda brings absolutely nothing to his weakly-written role, and the film drags sadly on, with tepid, obvious, and contrived 'plot twists.' Ted develops a crush on Carol, and Carol later becomes jealous of Marcia; both scenarios are used to pad out the wafer-thin plot.

The good news is that, against all hope, Allen is rounding out his life and career with a huge creative bang, and an international bang at that.

Wisely and daringly leaving New York City and America behind, Allen, for a number of reasons, has been working in Europe, where he was produced such widely-acclaimed and commercially successful films as 'Match Point' (2005), 'Vicki Cristina Barcelona' (2008), and 2011's warm, lush 'Midnight in Paris,' Allen's most commercially successful film in America to date.

Even the less successful films Allen has made recently have been far better than his 90s work: 'Cassandra's Dream' (2007) and 'You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger' (2010), both filmed in London, are certainly engaging.

The messy, fragmented 'Manhattan Murder Mystery' is worth seeing by Allen completists, but most are likely to find it a sad example of his weak and often unpleasant 90s oeuvre.