Last year, Saw rocked the horror-film world. With an interesting plot - a serial killer named "Jigsaw" kidnaps people, then makes them do horrible things to earn their release - and some incredibly intense scenes, Saw was a breath of fresh air for a too-often clich&eacute; genre.

Saw II doesn't fare nearly as well, though it eliminates the low-budget, flat-out bad acting of the original. Drenched in gross-out gore, shallow characters and a now-worn plot, it can't live up to the legacy of its predecessor.

The original movie certainly had its fair share of blood, but the sequel tops it. The scripts has the characters shot in the head, bleeding from the eyes, rolling in vats of hypodermic needles, cutting their wrists, burning to death, slicing their arms to pieces and passing out from deadly gas. All this is fine and dandy, but it comes at the expense of character development.

One of the first movie's best aspects was that it told the audience why each character was chosen for kidnapping by Jigsaw. One is a private investigator, another a drug addict. Jigsaw uses his "puzzles" to make his victims face their flaws and, if they can stomach it, do what they need to to survive.

In Saw II, however, there is but passing mention of why the victims are there. There's the drug dealer, the suicidal woman (the drug addict from the first movie who, apparently, has found new vices to replace the old ones Jigsaw helped her overcome), etc., but the viewer never relates to any of them.

Finally, the recycled plot can't make the movie worthwhile. There is a new twist - a detective arrives at a crime scene to find a message from Jigsaw, then catches the killer. Jigsaw, it turns out, is a dying cancer patient who wants to force others to see the value of the survival instinct.

From there, though, it's Saw all over again. Before his capture, Jigsaw and his accomplices kidnapped some people and, you guessed it, drugged them up and put them in a room in an abandoned warehouse. There's a clock ticking, and when it runs out they'll all die.

Even the movie's very first scene, the murder the detective later finds the message at, is a rehash of a scene from Saw. A man (instead of a woman like last time!) has a device strapped to his head that will kill him if he doesn't unlock it first. The key is in the person's eye, where last time it was in a dying human body's stomach. And the machine will drive spikes through the new victim's brain instead of ripping his jaw apart.

In short, Saw II is good for some skin-crawling, nauseating scenes, but it can't match the intelligence, character development and innovation of its predecessor.