I was fairly excited to see this movie, I have always enjoyed the other Halloween movies in this series. The only suspicion I had was the fact Rob Zombie was the director, I was not much of a fan of his other work. That being said, this movie is just mediocre.  It isn't so bad; it isn't that good.

Whatever little character development attempted failed miserably. The story of Michael Myers is nothing unexpected. (In not ruining too much) He came from a chaotic family with less than amiable family members. That's all you really get from his family. Zombie spends a decent amount of time predicating  Myers' personality, which is to show he has none whatsoever (which is a little odd if you think about it, considering the situation he's already in). So you won't get much in regards to character essence.

And now to the best part--or in fact, not the best part at all: the killing scenes. It doesn't necessarily concern me if this is in the "thriller" or "horror" genre because this movie includes neither element. People dying doesn't make such a movie, lots of people die in Braveheart, yet that movie yields neither such class. Zombie must have really missed out here. Just because someone wears a mask whilst carnage is in the works doesn't make it scary. There are no jump-in-your-seat shocking killings. There are no killings which are that horrific. Like I said, every killing scene is predictable, because you know for a FACT Michael is already there. Know those feelings you got watching the Friday the 13th movies, where you just knew that person was going to die, and somehow doesn't because the killer wasn't actually there or her boyfriend jumps out instead? None of those either. V e r y  P r e d i c t a b l e.

Mediocre. Shallow. Predictable. These are the words I chose to describe this movie. But, if you have a night where you don't really have much to do and your friend was kind enough to have purchases this movie and wouldn't mind lending it to you, it's snowing outside and nobody in their right mind would think about going outside, you have a cup of coffee and a blanket, this movie is worth watching. Maybe just once...