This review will be useful to that segment of potential purchasers of the film who became interested in it because it is not only about a famous (though doomed) mountain-climbing expedition but also because it is (indirectly) about the Third Reich. This specific segment for which I am reviewing the film wishes to see something positive about that period in the film. (It is relevant also that I, though an American, have lived in the Alps myself, I speak both fluent High German and also Austrian alpine dialect, and I majored in German at Georgetown. Further, I have extensive mountain-hiking experience....but not in mountain "climbing" -- with pitons, ropes, etc., for I have never had a subliminal death wish, and when you see this film you may end up agreeing with my remark.)

It is a typical West German movie (and I say West German deliberately, because West Germany simply ate East Germany, illegally, in 1990, and imposed on the whole country obsessive anti-Nazism. Every year, in that supposed German democracy, thousands are arrested for peacefully saying anything at all positive about the period 1933-45.) And so it is "de rigeur" in this film (as well as all the other West German films) to consistently portray National Socialists as totally sinister, extremely uncool, and latently monstrous....just waiting to holocaust someone In this film, they add for good measure an obese, cynical, large-nosed and black-haired Jew, who criticizes the whole expedition to one and all as insanely dangerous. The Jew is shown as being the one wise man in the whole crew of Eiger onlookers.

Even the blue-eyed lead actress Wokalek is forced to wear brown contact lenses, because cool people do not look Aryan! That is how ridiculously tendentious and lecturing this film is on the one hand.

I think I should also say, without giving the ending away entirely, that it sticks to the fundamental historical facts ....at least about how the real expedition truly ended, which was in an extreme and searing tragedy. Do not expect an American-style "happy ending" at all, for the truth is there was no happy ending. But somehow even this ending is subtly blamed on the Third Reich, as if Hitler had pushed those men up the north face of the Eiger.... No, alpinists for decades have attempted these sorts of perilous climbs -- dreaming of testing their skill, bravery and determination under the most daunting conditions -- and they have done so without Adolf Hitler and on a regular basis. Hitler certainly did not encourage Mallory to climb Everest in the 1920s (who perished) nor Hillary in the 1950s (who succeeded). Dozens have perished on Everest or K-2, but I suppose some day we will get a film about how every man who died on those peaks also was killed by Adolf Hitler...(Just a day before this review was written, even his parents' grave in Austria was dug up at the insistence of Austrian leftists!)

On a positive note, the film "North Face," reflecting the eternal German obsession with technical quality, is well-done in its breathtaking film work. You get a powerful sense of the majesty and danger of such a climb.

But if you hate Nazis (how brave of you to conform with what the media tells you from cradle to grave) and you love politically correct films where Germans are doomed for "following Hitler," and you welcome blue-eyed people getting brown contact lenses inserted in their eyeballs so as to avoid looking Aryan, then, for you, I would give the film four stars. Then you will like this film, and be subtly happy that it ended in a disaster.