I've seen all the movies and already had some on DVD, so this Blu-Ray collection was just an upgrade for my collection. I bought this on sale so I got the nine movies for about six and a half dollars apiece. I haven't watched them yet, but I'd give just the movie set 5 stars if they came in any kind of useful packaging. Instead they are packed in a "book" with nine fat "pages" and the movies are slid in the side of each of those fat pages. If they slid in and out easily, that would be OK since the pages face into the book cover and can't fall out. Instead, the pages are really tight and the disks not only won't slide out, they won't even shake out.

The only way to get the disks out is to stick your finger in between the top of the disk and the thin cardboard cover and push down and slide it out a little. It only comes out a little since there is a bump inside the top and bottom of the inside of the page that prevents it from sliding easily more than about an inch out of the page. You then have to get a piece of Kleenex or toilet tissue or some other soft paper and fold it over the stuck out part of the disk and pull it out the rest of the way. I didn't have any scratches on my disks, but if you drag the disks in and out a lot, they'll be draging their playing surface back and forth across the cardboard which can't be good for their surface.

The "book" is a really pretty way to keep the disks, with pictures and text on each of the facing "pages" about that movie, but a horrible way to get to the disks if you actually want to play them a lot. A better solution would be to just keep the book on the shelf as a curio and put the movies into nine DVD slim cases and set them next to the book. Barring that, if you could find some of those old paper sleeves that DVDs and CDs use to come in, you might try putting the disks in them and trying to slide those in and out, tho it would probably be a tight fit unless you cut the top and bottom of the sleeve off, but at least it would protect the disk surface from sliding over the cardboard.

Again, a five star rating on the movies, but a one star rating on the packaging.