Following a tragic fire and a stay in a mental institution, teenage Anna (Emily Browning) returns home to find her widowed father (David Strathairn) preparing to remarry. His love interest is the nurse (Elizabeth Banks) hired to care for Anna's now deceased mother.

Anna joins forces with her sister Alex (Arielle Kebbel) to try and dislodge the nurse. As they ask more questions about the fire that claimed their mother's life, the girls become convinced that the nurse is not who she says she is. But proving this to their father seems impossible, for he regards them warily and seems to believe everything he hears from their stepmother-to-be.

The Uninvited is a remake of the Korean horror film Janghwa, Hongryeon (released here as A Tale of Two Sisters) directed and written by Kim Ji-woon. The original was only released in 2003, and is superior in every way to the Hollywood version. In fact, the Korean version is so beautiful and the English language adaptation is so awful, the comparison calls for an accompanying rant on the very practice of adapting recent foreign hits for American audiences.

It's great to see artists of the caliber of Kim Ji-woon being paid for the rights to their work. If only the people buying those rights would honor what they buy. What is the point of remaking a film with a devoted following, and distorting or throwing out every element that excited fans and critics about that work? Wouldn't it be better to have a U.S. distributor re-market the original with the aim of making it more popular? It seems to me that the expectation of American audiences is dismally low in Hollywood. Or is it pure xenophobia that makes the majority of our film producers believe anything good still ought to be re-titled, re-focused, and given a Western cast?

Leaving the general social attitude and getting back to The Uninvited, the problem with adaptation is demonstrated perfectly in the DVD extras. There the film's directors and producers talk about why they were drawn to the project. The directors praise their favorite Korean horror films for their emotion and ambiguity. The producers also note the ambiguity of the original, and then go on to explain how they and the writers systematically did away with that ambiguity, because it was confusing and made the story "hard to follow."

In other words, they were not bright enough to understand or interpret the original to their satisfaction, so they made it simpler and more stupid, for the rest of us. Unfortunately, all of the changes made to A Tale of Two Sisters turned The Uninvited into just another cheap ghost flick sprinkled with teen angst.