Woody Allen said in an Interview once that 'Manhattan', was never the film he intended to write, the end result turning out infact completely different to the intial vision he had, and that he was actually very surprised at the popularity and accolades it earned by audiences and critics alike. Yet this supposedly unintentional fluke, became the definitive 'Woody Allen' film to many, and a modern cinematic masterpiece that paid reverent hommage to Allen's home town of 'New York City'. A city which Allen's main character 'Issac', admits to 'romantacizing out of all proportion'. I admit it was partly Allen's films over the years that led to my fascination and long distance love affair with New York. A melting pot of artists, writers, intellectuals, Jazz, Gershwin, smokey bars and cosy restaurants, quirky bookshops and delis. And of course the highly strung Manhattan neurotic, never without their 'shrink', or analyst. It's all here in this 70's cinema classic. Woody Allen could not have captured the magic and poetry of his beloved city more sublimely; magnificently filmed in black and white 'Panavision', with an exquisite musical score, cinematography, and all round cast ensemble. Most of my favourite of Allen's films are his collaborations with Diane Keaton, they had such a wonderful chemistry.
The charm of Allen's films lie largley in his clever, witty, satirical and often sadonic observations of human nature, foibles and weaknesses. The fragility of life and fickleness of relationships. Allen's movies often present like a modern take on Brechtian theatre, with the central character acting partly as narrator, and detatched observer or commentator as well as participant. Pondering lifes deeper questions, puzzlements and moral dilemmas. Presented always with his wry Jewish American, intellectual brand of humour. Manhattan, along with 'Hannah and her Sisters', and 'Crimes and Misdemeanours', in my view probably display this "wry observation" the most stylishly and successfully. His films (particularly the earlier ones) are also full of mocking self parody, where by he is really often just playing himself or at the very least aspects of himself. There are some hilarious moments and memorable vintage 'Woody' lines here.
 "She's 17 and I'm 42..". Says Issac to his friends about his young girlfriend Tracey (Mariel Hemmingway)."I'm older than her Father... I'm dating a girl where in I can beat up her Father, that phenomenon never occurred before". And on relationships: " I'm old fashioned I believe people should mate for life like pigeons.. or Catholics". But my favourite, in conversation with his ex wife( the divine Meryl Streep)who left him for another woman:
 "Well you knew my history when you married me".
" Yeah my analyst warned me, but you were so beautiful that I got another analyst".
The characters in Manhattan are very 'New York' yet ones that audiences recognize within themselves and own lives, or society at large. With all their petty adult problems of extra marital affairs, and flitting from one relationship to the next. Perhaps a subconscious distraction to avoid dealing with life's more deeper issues, such as death. A subject never far from Allen's thoughts.
 Allen and Keaton are great as always but I think Mariel Hemmingway really steals the show here, she's just perfectly gorgeous as Allen (Issac's) young love interest, who despite her youth has a wisdom beyond her years, enabling her to teach him ultimately as much as he's taught her, especially in the beautifully ironic twist at the end.
Manhattan really is a timeless visual piece of cinematic art, and most quintessential 'New York' movie. It most definitely would not have  worked as well in colour. As one reviewer eloquently put it, the city itself is as much a star of this movie as the actors, if not more so.
Last year I was finally lucky enough to have my dream of visiting New York City become a reality, and I was not disappointed. Every so often as I strolled through Central Park, or Greenwich village, I half expected to catch a glimpse of Woody in the street, hearing Gershwin and Cole Porter tunes as I gazed at the Brooklyn Bridge or the Russian Tea room. New York is certainly very much his 'Town'.