When it comes to NC films I always seem to either love them or hate them.

This falls in the middle.

Very interesting 'plot' for sure but it sure had alot of holes in it. Spoilers - Obviously we find out this 'organization', which at the beginning we are led to believe is very small with only very few people involved. Later, we find out the 'organization' is rather huge including police officers, reporters, NC's own co-workers & the list goes on and on.

With such a large organization with so many involved including those (police, reporters etc) who could 'do the job easily', it makes no sense that for 'every kill', they then 'tap that victims family member' to do the 'next kill'.

These are just normal people & most simply would not carry out the 'next kill', regardless of 'the favor they owe'. It would all blow up in a hurry as this 'secret & small organization' filled with a 'few select people ready & willing to do the jobs while keeping everything quiet' is actually a huge organization filled with normal people that would ensure it certainly is not quiet.

With so many normal, non killers 'doing the jobs' or 'being asked/threatened to', this would not last a month, even with police officers involved to 'help keep it quiet', let alone 10 or more years.

No way could they do it as they do & have it last that long. It wouldnt take the 'journalist' or anybody else 10 or more years 'to put the pieces together'...it would take a month before these 'normal people let the cat out of the bag'

So, it really made no sense why they had the number of people involved with many 'skilled in killing'..'100% for the cause' & 'dedicated to keeping it quiet', but they then use tons of normal people 'unskilled in killin', 'not dedicated to the cause' & certainly 'not dedicated to keeping things quiet'..in fact, these 'normal people would ensure its anything but quiet/a secret.....

But hey, its a movie so no biggie 'it doesnt make logical sense'.

But even tho, the movie still seemed rather predictable with it being fairly obvious at the beginning that the 'favor they will ask NC for', is going to be to kill someone.

It was also fairly obvious that we would find out there was alot more people involved then 'just a few dedicated citizens' as well as knowing we would find out 'a person/people' close to NC that he knows well, were involved as well & involved in helping to 'screw NC'.

But hey, the acting was decent, the plot interesting so was worth watching, but not a movie i'll watch more then once.

So, I do rec at least watching it. You may love it. You may hate it. You may fall in the middle like me, but it certainly was worth a single viewing for me, anyway.