Well now that Amazon has combined all Patton reviews to be displayed on all versions, I will sum up my original review of the 40th Anniversary Digi-Book Blu-Ray Edition to encompass a more, `in general' tone.  To those wondering why so many people found my review helpful, it was because I researched and found important information about that particular release and felt a duty to inform all future Patton Blu-Ray purchasers that the 40th Anniversary, Digi-Book edition was in fact the same, horrible, DNR mess that had been available on Blu-Ray for a few years prior, just in new packaging.  But the biggest reason for my review was that I knew (thanks to Bill Hunt at The Digital Bits) there was a properly re-mastered version being worked on and I felt a need to inform people so that if they wanted a good transfer, they would need to wait a bit.  Now that my review is visible on all versions, I can see how it would frustrate people to read everything I had written, from the original review to all the updates on the progress of the re-master.  So I shall summarize and make it more appropriately broad in an attempt to be more helpful to everyone.

Very first thing!  There is only one version of Patton on Blu-Ray you should get if you want a proper master.  Follow this link if you're not already on the correct product:  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B009A87ZKG">Patton [Blu-ray</a>]

Now, about the film.  Patton is a classic among classics.  This is perhaps one of George C. Scotts best performances of his career.  And although the film has many inaccurate accounts for the sake of artistic liberties (what true story film doesn't?), all the way to the end with the `all time' ox cart dodge, the performances and cinematography are what make this movie a timeless classic.  Yes, it is slow.  At least for today's ADD, plot line spoon fed, 3D with no actual depth loving audiences.  But to those who prefer story to gimmicks, I would call it "paced", and not slow.  This is a dialog heavy film.  Do not go into it thinking otherwise.  And it is long.  But not dull.  George C Scott even won an Oscar for his performance and famously rejected it stating that he did not feel he was in competition with other actors and had this to say about the Academy Awards, "The whole thing is a goddamn meat parade. I don't want any part of it."...  This film is almost like a very well directed, greatly acted, stage production.  Accept the set pieces are amazing, real, and captured on a now rarely used 70mm film stock.  So if you are interested in a summed up version of who General Patton was and his incredibly important role in winning WWII, than this would be the film to watch.  So good in fact, that they've never attempted an actual remake of it...yet (studios, please don't).

On to the Blu-Ray issues mentioned above.  If 50% of this movies awesomeness is the beautiful cinematography, than no one should be subject to a sub-par version of this film on the PQ front.  What I want to do here is give everyone yet another heads up.  At this time, the version linked above is the only version of Patton you should purchase on Blu-Ray.  All others, the original release a few years back, the 40th Anniversary Digi-Book edition, and even the copy in the 4-Pack War Movie collection, should be avoided at all costs as they are all the same, awful, waxy looking transfer that was done when few people fully realized what Blu-Ray should be used for in the HD market.

In Blu-Ray's infancy, studios often tried to get rid of all film elements that made a movie look less "HD" by today's standards of things being shot digitally.  I believe they felt that if there was any grain or softness to a film, it would make people think it was not an HD master and possibly make people not want to jump to Blu-Ray.  The fact is, anything shot on film will have grain.  It's one of the many elements that give film a life and character of it's own.  And even though Patton was filmed on 70mm film, meaning a much finer grain structure than typical film stock, the studio decided to wipe all grain off of the image for the first pressing anyway (known as DNR, or Digital Noise Reduction).  If applied properly, as in to remove digital noise that is more of an issue when decompressing the file and not native to the original film, it's not a bad idea.  But when used to take away elements that are native to the original film, we get a `waxy' appearance on faces and other objects on screen.  Much like a moving wax museum.  I'm not sure why, but some people still like this.  But to film purists who want a movie to look as it looked while in the theaters, this is unacceptable.  Unless it's Pixar, people shouldn't look waxy.  This is exactly what happened with the original pressing(s) of Patton on Blu-Ray.

Thankfully, not only have studios realized that Blu-Ray and an HD displays true role should be to accurately represent the original work as best as possible, but the complaints were heard about Patton as well and a re-master has been in the works for a few years now.  It was recently announced and will be released on November 6th of this year, 2012.  If you are looking for a version of Patton that is true to it's original intent and look, than that version is the only one you should get.  To those of us that have been waiting, we are crossing our fingers and toes that this one does not get messed up as well.  Yes, this may have gotten long.  But trust me, not nearly as long as the original post, which I will be archiving in the comments section.

And once again, if you're purchasing Patton on Blu-Ray, be sure it's this version and this version only:  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B009A87ZKG">Patton [Blu-ray</a>]

P.S. I will change my stars as soon as I see the new version.