If this film has a good feature, it is probably the landscape photography. But it ends there. Along with a disjointed storyline that frequently leaves the viewer hanging (how did the girl get out of the cave?), the film is nothing more than a series of episodes strung together in the editing room. It is so clumsily put together, it wouldn't pass muster as a student's first year film project. If there is a story, it is this: A child becomes fixated on a fox that keeps trying to evade it. The child's obsessive curiosity at times borders on stalking and the claimed "friendship" between the girl and the fox is never adequately proven.

Genuine nature films, or films that use real animals, are notoriously difficult to film. And the abrupt-style photography in this film demonstrates, without any doubt, that the interactions between fox and child (and several other animal scenes) were created in the cutting room. The dubbed dialogue is pedestrian and Kate Winslet's narration neither helps nor hinders--it's just there. Even the "trapped fox" event seemed like a desperate ploy by the filmmaker to inject some badly needed drama into this surprisingly stodgy film. The girl's bizarre decision to trap the fox in her room--and cause the panicked animal to get almost killed by crashing through a window--very much contradicts the idea there is a friendship between them at all. By movie's end, the girl demonstrates no maturation, no learning curve, and yet she suddenly parrots the script writer's words that "foxes and people cannot be friends." This gratuitously injected dialogue, of course, completely undermines the film's heavily advertised premise that they can be.

I am totally baffled by the largely positive professional reviews of this film. I read these AFTER, not before seeing this film, and I'm at a loss at the saccharine adjectives of praise in many of them. I watched this wretched movie with guests, who, like I, were hoping the movie would turn around and show some of the "magic" promised on the DVD jacket.

Sadly, this movie now tops my list of worst films ever. Do not be suckered into supporting Luc Jaquet's horrendous mishmash by spending good money on it.