The Best Years of our Lives is a very eye-opening film concerning the difficulties of World War II veterans in returning to the States after their tour of duty.  Three returning veterans meet on a flight to their "small town" (which seems rather large from the air as they approach).  However, one of the men (who had seved with the Navy) has lost his hands in the war, and now has what is constantly referred to as "hooks;" this is by far the most touching and interesting tale of the three interwoven threads in the film, yet relatively little time is afforded to this tale.  
Each man returns to a family and a romantic interest.  The treatment of these issues, however, seems at odds with Hollywood fare and the Production Code system and the influence of the Legion of Decency (affiliated with the Catholic Church) of the time.  There is a very touching scene with the man with the "hooks" being undressed and helped into bed by his romantic interest in his bedroom (with his parents across the hallway) well before they are married.  The daughter of another returning military man falls in love with the third returning veteran even though the latter is already married; the film can be read as ambiguous at the end, but one can easily infer that they WILL get married soon (once an aforementioned divorce is finalized).  
Various issues facing the return of veterans are brought to the foreground in this film.  Memories (rather, nightmares) of combat and the loss of comrades, lack of interest in the medals and commendations, handling naysayers, acquired interests in smoking and drinking (heavily), apprehension at seeing family and friends once more, and - especially - the lack of job possibilities are all quite prevalent throughout the film.  
Except that this film is well over 2-1/2 hours in length, this is a good film overall.  The Scene Selection portion of the DVD is especially well-constructed, easily allowing users to find where to begin again if they cannot watch the entire film in just one sitting.  This is certainly not a Citizen Kane, but is still a good example of 1940s Hollywood filmmaking.