Alright let's be honest here.  The Last House on the Left is a bad movie.  However, it is still worth your time.  Its SEVERLY dated (just look at....everything).  Half of the time you are either shocked or laughing you butt off.  I threw a horror movie festival over spring break one time and this was one of the movies we watched.  Well it was hysterical, most of the time in the beginning we expected porno music to kick in and for a pizza man to show up.  However once it got going, we still found ourselves laughing but also found some moments that were cringing and awesome (from a horror fanatic's point of view).  My favorite scene has to be the dentist nightmare.  What makes this film so shocking has to be the back and forth segments of horror and humor and that this movie was released in 1972.

Here's the story.  Two girls are on their way to a concert and on their way want to get some pot.  They run into four convicts who end up raping and murdering them in the woods right next to the house of one of the girls.  Since the murderers' car broke down, they decide to stay at the girl's house.  The parents willingly let them stay at their house, feed them and so forth.  Slowly they find out that both the girls are dead and then extract their revenge.  There is a chainsaw scene and might I add that the chainsaw can barely cut and it's amusing how long it takes to saw through a chair!

This movie is also the first of Wes Craven's directing career.  I've seen several of his films and most of them are good but not great.  This one has a great story but because of an inexperienced director, an extremely low budget and so forth it suffers greatly.  They recently remade Craven's second film, The Hills Have Eyes, and I read online that they are considering remaking this one as well.  After viewing this movie I thought that this is one of the few movies that really deserves a remake providing it has good actors.

The Last House on the Left is still amusing and I would watch it again.  It's shocking, it's unintentionally funny, intentionally funny (the scene where the policemen run out of gas is hysterical) and most of all cheesy.  Yet at the same time, there are parts that you would not see in movies today and I'm surprised that this was allowed release in theaters back in 1972.

I'll admit I don't have this DVD, but the cover makes the film appear to be darker than it really is, as the house never looks evil like it does on the box cover.  You'll see what I mean if you watch the Last House on the Left.  Rent this movie for a few laughs and disturbing scenes.