First off, I'm a big fan of the 8 films to die for. I have several of them, from the 2006 series, 2007 series and the 2008. This movie starts out with a girl and her family in a car and they are involved in an accident. Both parents die and the girl is left with a fear of cars. She's older now and with her therapist is going back to the scene of the terrible crash, in a car, to help her with therapy. Within the first 10 minutes of the movie, you realize what type of cry baby this woman(the girl) is. They pick up this hitchhiker, who has them drive out to this remote camp that is closed down for the season(yeah right, I'd do that). They let him out and start driving off and suddenly have a flat tire(right front). The therapist gets out, checks and oh no, its the skewer the hitchhiker had he was eating from. The girl gets out as well, starts freaking out and crying like a baby. The therapist tries to get her back in the car after pulling it from the tire(allowing the air to escape). Finally she gets her in the car and they start driving, but the tire finally blows.(Who cares? Alone in the woods, flat tire, crazy hitchhiker.. I'd keep driving) Anyway, the therapist gets out, goes for help, dies. The girl gets out, freaks out, tries to walk, somehow.. hurts her leg. Goes back to the car. Cries, whines. One part of the movie, the crazy guy some how puts the dead therapist back in the car, key in her mouth and the car is wedged between FOUR trees. The girl is unable to get out. I ask myself, how did he get the car in those trees. The girl tries to "drive" out, can't do it.. but amazingly, she is able to roll the window down and use her FOOT to push against the tree and move the car. Anyways, I watched this movie with my daughter, after about the first 15 minutes of "the horror/torment from the hitchhiker" we was wishing he'd kill her, just to shut her up. I had to force myself to watch this movie, in hopes that the girl would die. I tried to give this movie away to my friend, but they did not want it. I wasted my money buying this movie and I hope you don't waste yours.