First, let me say that I enjoyed the movie. I have been a fan since the Hanna-Barbera cartoon from the eighties.  This is a cute and enjoyable movie, even with the occasional low brow humor and over-indulgent slapstick that channels old Hollywood physical comedy.  No the story isn't overly complex, but it does dabble in backstory that pays attention to the canon from Saturday morning cartoons a la Hanna-Barbera without going into too much depth.  It's enjoyable for all ages, whether kids or kids-at-heart who want to be nostalgic or just entertained.  The cast was a good fit, even if Hank Azaria was subject to brutally obvious Wile E. Coyote moments in the story.
Now the downside: Even though I won't rant with a verbal tantrum that some of the others have already posted, I will say that I share their disappointment about my purchase of a more-expensive 3D Blu-ray version of this film, to find out that doesn't include all the extra features like "The Smurfs - A Christmas Carol". This one item in particular is a substantial omission from the 3D combo pack, and apparently it's not available through iTunes as of this date. It's also disappointing that the digital copy included is not an iTunes compatible format.
I do not like the new Ultraviolet streaming format for various reasons that others here have already (rather irately) mentioned, as well as one particular reason of my own. When we, the consumers, purchase something that includes a digital copy, we do expect to be able to use it with our portable devices without the over-complications of creating multiple new accounts to access it, and to receive low quality streaming that the new Ultraviolet Digital Version seems to impose.  My main issue with the service is that when I download Ultraviolet Digital Copy instead of streaming it, I haven't been able to find a selection in the software that allows me to choose where to store the file.  This is a major inconvenience when you are using a computer that only has a 256GB hard drive like the Macbook Air, and when you use a network storage device such as Time Capsule or WD Sharespace on your home network to store audio/video digital media. It also means that (so far) it will not play on an Apple TV.  I understand the right of the manufacturer to produce their own digital copy format, but that doesn't mean it is the format that consumers want, or want to pay for in lieu of important special features that are included with less expensive editions.  I definitely don't want to purchase two copies of the Blu-Ray combo packs to get everything that is typically included in all of them, including the 3D version.  My suggestion is that the industry pick a standard for digital copies just like they did when they all caved and went with Blu-Ray, and also select a standard on content inclusion/exclusion so that consumers aren't disgruntled or disappointed.