I have been a fan since I first read the book and watched it in its premier broadcast on CBS.  When I am asked to name my favorite movie, I always cite Lonesome Dove (even though it is a made-for-television miniseries).  Today I purchased this newly-released Collector's Edition, even though I already own the 2000 Hallmark 2-disc release, and even though I suspected the touted "widescreen" had been accomplished by cropping/letterboxing.

After reading the handful of reviews here that seemed to contradict each other, I popped both discs in separate players to compare them with each other.  The good news is, the audio is remarkably crystal clear, a definite improvement.  The picture is also markedly superior, very sharp, and the color is brilliant.  On the older Hallmark version, the colors appear pale and washed out compared to the newer version, which has much deeper and richer tones, after remastering.

The bad news is, it is in fact cropped.  When I watched the two discs side by side, it is immediately apparent that part of the picture is missing at the top and at the bottom of the screen, in most scenes.  What is really strange, however, is that in some scenes part of the picture has been cropped from the (left and/or right) sides of the picture, as well.  There are some scenes in which the picture has been cropped on ALL FOUR sides of the picture.  I am not imagining this.  I was able to confirm this by playing/pausing the two versions side by side and noting that characters are sometimes in frame, other times not visible, parts of signs and lettering on signs are sometimes visible, sometimes not visible.  Objects visible in the older version may not be visible in the newer release.

Even stranger, in the new release, in some scenes one side of the frame may show less (on either the left or the ride side of the picture) in the new version (e.g. missing a person, or an object), but the other side of the frame may show people or objects that do not appear in the "original" 4:3 aspect.

Bottom line: it would appear that the original production was filmed in some aspect other than what was originally broadcast on network; this newer version ADDS some of the previously unseen aspect in some scenes, but in other scenes OMITS some of what was originally broadcast.  Still, the picture quality is really nice, and if you are as big a fan as I am of this, the greatest story ever told, it probably won't matter to you.  I will keep my older version copy, but I doubt I will ever have a reason to want to watch it instead of this one.