I haven't even seen this movie but I can attest to the fact that slaughterhouses are grim places and the beef industry a sad one, indeed.  After hauling cattle and hogs in a tractor-trailer to these charnel houses I have seen with my own eyes the impersonal, utterly depressing truth of factory farming.  The sweet momma cows who have given up their babies year after year until they can no longer produce 26 gallons of milk per day are then consigned to the hamburger trade.  They load up well since they are used to being handled and their udders, grossly distended from having not been milked in anticipation of slaughter, sway awkwardly.  As a former nursing mom I felt so sorry for this condition which I know from personal experience to be painful!

Sometimes they would go down in transit and the kill plant would chain the cow's legs and drag her off the truck then lift her in the bucket of a front-end loader.  I remember one's udder leaking milk onto the dung-encrusted floor of the trailer ( We clean them but they fill up fast! ) in below-zero temps, leaving a frozen reminder of her service to mankind on the eve of her death.  It seemed obscene to trample the remnant of life-giving milk in the process of unloading the rest of them.

While waiting to unload once I observed the cows go into the building, then somewhere within the next 30 feet behind the closed doors they met their deaths.  Then the bloody hides, so recently clothing a living creature, rose up a conveyor belt and fell in a heap into a dump truck to be taken to a tannery.  Every 40 seconds or so a fresh hide emerged from the building, steaming in the chilly air.  Talk about gluttony!  And all I could think about was the fat, oblivious masses of people gorging on fast food with no thought where it came from.

I no longer eat hamburgers, hotdogs, bologna, or any other kind of processed meat that is ground up and reformed  ( I WILL NOT let my son eat chicken nuggets! ) because the sanitation practices necessary to a wholesome product seem unattainable to me with a workforce whose native language is not English.  The illegal immigrant situation is yet another aspect of this scenario; illegals can be forced to work in hideous conditions for fear of being turned in.  The little Latinas who worked in chicken plants when I hauled a reefer ( That's a refrigerated unit to you stoners out there! ) couldn't believe that a WOMAN was driving a truck all by herself.  When it dawned on them, they invariably burst out in broad smiles.  I hope they saw a way out of an abusive relationship or something by seeing me do that; apparently some illegal men have been known to terrorize their women the way employers terrorize them.

At any rate, the food industry needs to be rethought from top to bottom.  Thomas Jefferson himself envisioned a nation of small-holders,each with his ( or her! ) own farm, each capable of self-sufficiency.  I'll be buying this movie ASAP!