Liberals: This Baby has it all! A plot whose central organizing event is a US soldier in Iraq running his massive Army truck over an innocent Iraqi child standing helplessly in the middle of a dusty street. No, it was not exactly "deliberate" - he was ordered to to do it to comply with a standing Army order that no truck in a convoy under attack must stop for any reason. The memory of the child's body flopping around in the undercarriage drives the otherwise virtuous soldier to a form of drug fueled sadism/insanity which ultimately leads his murder by his fellow soldiers, also "messed" by the Horrible Injustice of It All. To add impact and visual interest the writers of this screenplay have the young soldier's body dismembered and then burned and there are many opportunities for quick glances at photos of the crime scene.

But wait there's more! Susan Sarandon does her nauseatingly condescending impression of a Red State mother who blames her husband (Tommie Lee Jones) for the death of her son because he idealized military service to the son! Jones resists the temptation to display his great range by playing exactly the same character he always plays, only tireder. There is even a scene where he has a depressing conversation with another burned out old man who happens to be the same actor with whom Jones had a similarly pointless scene in No Country For Old Men.

What would a movie like this be without the old Glass Ceiling theme?
So we have the tall svelte knockout (Theron) as the detective whose career is devalued and demeaned by older pot bellied neanderthal male detectives who insist she only got her position through prostitution.
There is the crusty cynical white male police chief (Brolin/Bush) who is only interested in re-election but reluctantly agrees to let Theron do the right thing in the case. The gritty reality of everyday police work is brilliantly captured by Theron's wardrobe. She is, inevitably, a single mother with a precious pre-pubertal male child.

As sharp and worldly wise as Jones' Father is even he succumbs to...yes, cultural insensitivity, when he refers to a Mexican American soldier as a "wetback." In the powerfully affecting denouement of the story he and this soldier are reconciled by their mutual pain and disgust with Life and the Military. Get those tissues out.