The movie is seen more as a cautionary tale to Paris, Britney, and Lindsey.

The actors are what keep the movie from being a disaster. I think that her story was long overdue, but because people still see her as a beloved person that knew her, Dylan and Reed were really upset with the film.

Before seeing "Factory Girl", watch or revisit "I Shot Andy Warhol", which is another point of view on Warhol (this one has Lily Taylor, Stephen Dorff in drag and Michael Imperioli), and you can see a not so flattering side of Warhol using and manipulating.

The film itself is better than expected, but to hide Dylan (or make a composite Dylan out of 2 people) and to use everyone else's real name says a lot. I don't think he did Dylan as good as Cate Blanchett did though, but you get the point.

Guy Pearce got Warhol down, Sienna Miller did a fine job as Edie, but it kind of reminded me of the same flaws I found with "Sid and Nancy's" where they both played iconic figures but were in movies that weren't.

You can't say anything bad about the actors. The interest of doing a movie about her is reason enough, but people either love or hate it... esp.

Jimmy Fallon actually impressed me, I think he's better suited for supporting roles.

Supposedly one of the Olsen twins was in the movie... not sure where though.

After watching "Factory Girl", check out "Ciao Manhattan" and see the real Edie.

Truth is stranger than fiction regarding Warhol himself. - the PBS Doc,"The Complete Picture", the Warhol Diaries, Popism,
his movies (which are either bootlegged or via import, but that's where you'll find Edie in the Warhol movies) or screened at the Warhol museum in Pittsburgh), "Superstar", "Nico Icon". Lou Reed and John Cale's "Songs for Drella", a concept about Warhol's life on CD, the 1989 doc, the best portrayals of Warhol by Crispin Glover and David Bowie (The Doors and Basquiat), still pale in comparison to when he was in society pages and Page 6 in the Post.

As a standalone movie with fictional characters based in truth, and not seeing it as a historical true story but as entertainment, it works.

The only thing I wish was Warhol being around to have seen this.

It's a rental or something to watch on cable. You'll watch it the one time. The "unrated" in bold on the cover, but I don't even know why.