Before I begin, I would like to give a disclaimer. Although I liked this film, I have only viewed it once and I am also I young man who has not seen many westerns. Therefore, it has not yet grown on me (as many previous reviewers have stated that it does) and also I have very little to compare this film to. With that said, on to the review...

My first impression of this film was that it was very well done. The plot of the film is thick and dark and has many parts, the main segment being the story of Will Munny (Clint Eastwood) and his companion Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman). Munny is a retired assassin in from Kansas who has decided to live a life of rationality in tribute to his wife, raising two children and working (and failing) as a pig farmer. One day Munny is confronted by a young assassin-in-training known only as "The Schofield Kid" about going to Wyoming to kill two cowboys who slashed a prostitute (there is a $1,000 reward put up by the prostitutes). The film, in an extremely summarized version of the extremely dense storyline, is the story of Will Munny struggling to come to grips with his haunted past.

Although I enjoyed the suspense of the film very much, there were two aspects of the film that I didnt particularly enjoy. The first was the constant use of shadowed lighting which spread shadows across the face of nearly every character in the movie and which made the film extraordinarily difficult to concentrate on. While I understand this technique is used in emphasis of the darkness of the film, I still don't think it added anything to the emotions running within the movie. The second was the use of Richard Harris' character, "English Bob". I didn't understand how his portion of the storyline was relevant to the rest of the movie other than to allow for an excellent soliloquoy by Gene Hackman inside the town jail. There were many more portions of the film that I did appreciate very much, especially the youthful enthusiasm of the Schofield Kid, who beautifully contrasts Will's bleak denial of his true identity with yearning for adventure.

I will probably watch this film again at some point, but even after one view, I strongly reccommend it for its dark and brutal storyline and excellent acting performances. Watch it several times if you get the chance, and let the film mystique grow on you.