Eastern Promises was one of the films I wanted to get my hands on as soon as possible. Not merely because of the director but of the stellar cast he managed to sign on. I watched the film several times to make sure I got every little detail. Let's start with Viggo Mortensen's character Nikolai, a rather mysterious person at first sight. The scene in which he extinguishes a cigarette on his tongue promised much fiercer brutality to come making amendments to a corpse that got in the way of a Russian mafia prince played by Vincent Cassel. And this was just for starters. The story begins with an apparently Russian teenager appearing in a pharmacy asking for help in broken English only to break down in a sea of blood. In the next scene she gives birth to a baby girl and dies shortly afterwards. Midwife Anna of Russian heritage assists the birth in a North London hospital and takes it on herself to find out more about the girl and her family. What she does not understand is that a visit to a Russian restaurant takes her right into the very heart of a criminal dynasty of Russian mafia controlling their business from there. Armin Mueller-Stahl delivers a brilliant performance as mafia king Semyon who changes colours like a chameleon, appearing as a loving patriarch, brutal father and icecold killer with all the charm required. Nikolai's role is to be submissive to his protege's every whimp and he does so with utter discretion and testing of the limits of his role. Vincent Cassel brings Kirill to life as only he can with the right amount of zero tolerance, sadistic tendencies and the urge to overthrow his father to become the big boss himself. Anna unconsciously crosses ways with Nikolai when she delivers the diary of the teenage girl written in Russian to Semyon only to find out too late that she has made herself and her family vulnerable to  him. Her uncle Stepan translates the diary too and unravels a story of promises of a better life in London only to end in a brothel and drug abuse thanks to the Russian mafia clan. Suddenly forced by threats of Semyon to destroy Anna or her family, Nikolai has no choice but changing directions and loyalties from Kirill to Semyon in a deadly game to protect Anna and himself from being exposed of his true motive to serve the clan. Eastern Promises is a shining example of how great a mainstream mystery thriller can be.