I thought this movie looked incredibly stupid when I saw it promoted - and I stayed far away from it when it came to the theater.  Then, recently, a friend of mine wanted to watch it and I basically had no choice but to sit and watch it with him.  I really like Parker Posey, so I tried to make the most of the movie.
And, about two minutes into Josie, I reaized I didn't have to "make the most of anything.  This is a really cool movie.  It's surprisingly very smart too.  It says alot about our culture today...all the consumerism and marketing and cross-promotion synergy that's forced down our throats (read an article in a magazine about a book that's being made into a movie with a documentary feature being produced for the TV and a video game set to hit stores by Christmas, right after the fast food Happy Meal tie-ins...Welcome to McWorld!...and spend, spend, spend!).
The movie is also very funny.  What horrible marketing it had when it was in theaters!  I never knew this flick would be roll on the floor hilarios.  Tara Reid is genius in this movie - and that's something I would never have dreamed I'd say about Tara Reid, based on what I know about her from her appearances on TRL or whatever.  Her character is hands-down my favorite in the movie. She has some really great lines and gags as the sweetly-stupid Melody.  She's worth watching the movie entirely unto herself.
The rest of the cast is really great too.  I'm not a big fan of Alan Cummings, but Parker Posey is her usual talented self here.  There's several great cameos in this - and lots of in-jokes for people who remember the Pussycats cartoon from the 70s/early 80s.  
I honestly can't say anything bad about this movie.  It's one that I can see again and again and still laugh out loud over.  And the great thing about it is that hardly anyone has seen it.  It's one of those private little gems you can add to your dvd collection and take out to surprise and entertain friends one night.  They will totally make fun of you when you suggest Josie and the Pussycats...but I GUARANTEE you they'll apologize when the movie starts up.  I still apologize to my friend for making fun of him about his love of Josie.  But like I said, when I'm wrong, I admit it.  
Seriously..give his movie a chance and add it to your collection.  You won't regret it.