This movie suprised everyone by NOT becoming a hit... and it was a failure because of the "film makers" who worked behind the camera on this film. The acting on this film is excellent, there are many highly tallented actors in this movie...the fact it stinks is not their fault.
This movie is NOT APOLLO 13, nor is it FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON. Those are 5 star hits...largely because Tom Hanks and Ron Howard worked very very hard to keep their films ACCURATE. The true stories of the early space program are better than anything that Hollywood can produce.
Tom Wolfe's book, on which this film was based, is a wonderful read, I highly recomend it. It is filled with lyrical writing and poetic images... none of which translated well into the film.
Rather than simply tell the TRUE story of this incredible time, the "film makers" tried to capture some of Wolfe's imagery... and were about as sucessful as Custer was at Little Bighorn. They never decided if they wanted to tell the story of the space program as it REALLY was; or to turn this film about the very real men and women who worked on PROJECT MERCURY into some sort art piece full of bad lighting and mythic symbolisim...so they tried to do both...thus making a great book about truly heroic men into the sort of undirected self-indulgent mess you expect from someone in their first year of film school. As someone who was raised around the Space Program I actually found much of this movie insulting...at the climax it is impled that John Glenn's sucessful re-entry was the result NOT of the long hours put in by the hardworking people at McDonnel-Douglas who built FRIENDSHIP 7, nor the cool and calm efforts of the folks at NASA who controlled the flight, nor Glenn's (literally) ace piloting skills...no this moive implies that it was an unknown Australian aborignal witch-doctor who "chanted" Glenn home!!
The men (and now women) who had "THE RIGHT STUFF" in REAL life were serious hardworking engineers as well as being calm and unflappable test pilots. They were "steely eyed missile men", who thought logically and rationally, they LITERALLY "did the math" every day. What they DIDN'T do was wander around wallowing in self-indulgent angst about the mythcal symbolisim of what they do...they were to busy REALLY DOING IT! Apparently the "film makers" never did "GET" that key point...fortunately the much more tallented Tom Hanks and Ron Howard did, go see their work instead. Don't waste your money on this. Buy and read THE BOOK the Right Stuff- it is a fantastic first rate read! Buy FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON, or APOLLO 13 on DVD if you want to see something fun and exciting and real, and if you want science fiction buy COWBOY BEBOB THE MOVIE...but this movie is NOT the "right stuff". Avoid it.