I recommend buying the movie Raising Helen. The reason I recommend this movie is because it is funny and will make the audience laugh, it will also make the audience cry many times. Last reason, is that it teaches a very important lesson; you don't realize what you have until it is gone. At the birthday party, Helen gave her sister her gift and asked her "if she remembered the moves to "Whip it Good."

 Raising Helen made me laugh many times. For example, while Helen and her family are dancing to "Whip it Good," they had fire hydrant hats on their heads at the sister's birthday party. The two younger sisters, dancing and singing to the song "Whip it Good." Another example is when Helen threw a birthday party for a stuff hippo. It was hilarious seeing the waiter rapping the Happy Birthday song, not many adults would do that to make a little girl happy. Finally, when the teenage niece threw a party at their house, while Helen was gone, Helen had the neighbor chase the kids out with a baseball bat. What was comical was the neighbor was a little lady who was threatening big guys. Not only is Raising Helen funny, it has sad moments.

 In the movie it will also makes the audience cry many times. For example, when the audience finds out that the parents had died in a car accident, Helen and the kids climbed into the closet and talked about their parents. Another time the little boy went every basketball practice and game but couldn't play. Helen went to the coach and demanded to no why he didn't get playing time. The coach responded he refuses to play. When Helen asked the boy why he didn't play he said it was because his dad could no longer play with him.

 This movie teaches the audience a valuable lesson that "you don't know what you have till it is gone." For example, when Helen gave up custody, due to her feeling of parental failure, to her sister and realizes she can not turn back time before she had children. Helen didn't know how to change from being a friend to parent.

 These reasons are why I recommend Raising Helen. It will make the audience laugh many times and if you enjoy as I do, a good tear jerker. The last reason is that you don't know what you have till it is gone. When I watch a movie, I like to know that you're going to learn a valuable lesson.