Based on the novel by Blaine M. Yorgason, Windwalker is a story that holds its viewers captive until the very end. Set in the Midwest's striking Black Hills during the late 1700s, the story begins in the dead of winter with an old, dying Cheyenne man telling his two young grandsons the story of his life.

His story contains elements of hope, love, determination, disappointment, happiness, death, tragedy, and sorrow. Tears pool inside the man's eyes as he tells of one fateful day when his enemy, the opposing Crow tribe, stole what he had loved and cherished the most. Ever since that day, his life had been an endless journey as he searched for the son that had been snatched away from him--the son that he was never able to reclaim. With a weary, tearful smile, the old man murmurs that his journeys are now over and that, "It is a good day to die." His eyelids droop shut, and he breathes his last.

As the old man's journey comes to an apparent end, a new journey unfolds for the family he left behind. After conducting a proper funeral ceremony, the man's remaining son and his wives and children begin a travel of their own to escape the disease that is ravaging their people. Vulnerable and alone inside the wooded Black Hills, they become easy prey for their infamous Crow adversaries.

Windwalker is a story of hard work and survival with themes including a father's undying love, the strength of family ties, perseverance, and young boys becoming men. Though simple, the tale will tend to sweep you along and leave you laughing, crying, and gripping the edge of your seat.

Overall, the 1981 film is well-made. One of the things I appreciated most about it was the accurate portrayal of the native Indian people, who are often wrongly presented as wild, inhuman savages in other films. All dialogue is spoken in the native Crow and Cheyenne dialects, and footnotes are provided at the bottom of the screen. Very little dialogue is actually spoken, and the well-acted drama is used to carry the story along.

Windwalker does contain a few minor quirks, the biggest being its music, which, at times, could be better. A few of the measures tend to pull the audience away from the native atmosphere, such as the sudden burst of triangles every time the father's white horse appears. Another has to do with the Crow warriors' superstitious fascination, and even fear, with the white horse. This superstition is largely unexplained to the audience and can be somewhat confusing. A few sections of the film also tend to drag when action scenes are separated by clips of the surrounding scenery, sometimes lasting the better part of a minute.

Despite its few weak points, I would highly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good family film. Captivating and heart-touching, this classic should leave few people disappointed.