This is a movie about people who are just happy with what they have, and who just want to live simply.

For the Kerrigan's, they think they have the best positioned house in Australia - backing right onto one of Melbourne's airports.

To the rest of us, we'd say they were tripping!

But like I said, their happy with what they've got and where they are, and they'll be damned if anyone thinks they are going to take it from them.

This film has a great reputation in Australia, and is definately worth seeing, this version is the "tweaked American version", so it is a little different from what we got over here in the cinema and the Australian VHS version, but I got this from Amazon.com a couple of years ago because strangely you couldn't get it on DVD in Australia for the longest time, although it has been released since with a stack of special features that you don't get in this version.

This is actually a favourite of Rob Schneider and Adam Sandler's which led them to use Michael Caton (who plays the main character in this movie of Darryl Kerrigan) in "The Animal" (I know this from Rob's commentary track on "The Animal" DVD).

This movie was made by a group called "Working Dog" that have just about done it all in Australia, they have had several radio shows, several TV shows, including their long-running and still going talk show "The Panel".

This was their first feature, and obviously done on a very tight budget and schedule, but with those two factors in mind it still makes for a good effort.

Their second film "THE DISH" is more polished, and a lot classier movie, and a LOT highly recommended by this reviewer (Check out my other reviews for more info on THE DISH).

Who knows when their next movie will be out or what it will be about?, (The Working Dog team are very secretive) but I can't wait for their next offering.

At the moment they are also releasing "Lonely Planet" style travel books to fictitious lands, the first two out are "Molvania", and the new one "Phaic Tan", which are currently not available on Amazon.com, but can be bought on-line elsewhere.

(do an search for "PHAIC TAN", you will be taken to a site for the book, and it is FUNNY!)

Anyway, buy this film!  It's fun!