What can I say about SAW other than the acting in this film was atrocious!  I mean, it was laughably bad.  The guy that plays Adam can't say anything without cracking me up.  And chubby Cary Elwes is the epitamy of pompousness, every word he says sounds forced as well.  I know the above sentences don't flow very well but I'm a bit pissed.  I had high hopes for this film and feel so wronged after finally having seen it.  The premise is very intriguing: two strangers wake up in a wickedly dirty bathroom, their feet chained to metal poles, or the wall (does it really matter, just know they were bound).  Throughout the course of the film Elwes says (with an air of righteousness) that they're probably in the clutches of the "Jigsaw Killer", a serial murderer that kills not so much physically but psychologically.  This concept fascinated me and I'm sorry to say it wasn't executed rightly at all.  Danny Glover stars in his worst role since Predator 2 and adds even more insult to injury as the obsessed detective stopping at nothing to find this horrid killer.  Of course there's plot twists abound, all involving the identity of the killer and a (I have to say) greatly executed sequence involving one of the only survivors of the killer that was really the highlight of the film.  The first viewing of this film left me stunned at what had occurred but after further thought i know why i was stunned: the ending is preposterous, a point which is generally okay in horror films but not okay in a gore hound's wet dream masquerading as a horror film that masquerades as a thriller.  Anyone not likely to catch the idiocy that the ending carries and not likely to care about the bad BAD acting this film is for you.  And, of course, gore-hounds are in for a treat after Elwes puts the saws provided the two near the beginning to good use near the end.  Me, I don't want my hour and a half back.  I want this to be billed as a horror/comedy.  Laughing out loud at this film is very easy especially at the end when Adam screams in agony, pure gold.  I know it sounds awful but, I am saying this, watch this film and see for yourself.  Most love this movie and that's fine, it's an American Film, all gore, nothing to back it up, except an interesting premise that's shot all to hell by the bad acting and unbelievebly idiotic and/or unbelievable plot twists.