When I go to the movies, I want to see stuff I haven't seen before. I don't want sequels, retreads of TV shows from my childhood nor anything with Matt Damon trying to be Jason Bourne.

This movie is like nothing you have seen before and ( sorry to all the nay-saying reviewers ), simply ground breaking and fresh.

Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez take hardboiled noir crime fiction and compact it into a diamond of a movie, shot through with hardboiled lugs, an honest cop and oh-so sexy dames.

Let me address the movie's critics one at a time.

a) No good guys.

That is so palpably untrue. The three principle male character are all good guys - all trying to do what's right in the confines of the moral murk in which they find themselves. The bad guys aka the true murderers and the Mob all die - some really horribly in forms of almost karmic payback.

b) The picture demeans women.

No it doesn't. If they were all pathetic objects to be used and thrown away and potrayed as such, that might be an argument with some validity. The girls in Old Town are all in charge of their lives and are quite possibly the strongest group characters in the movie. Even Goldie makes a conscious choice when she seeks out Mikey Rourke's character. She isn't an objectified victim and he ( monster that he is ) loves her for the kindness she has shown him.

c) Cheesey voiceovers.

Some people never seemed to have heard of Chandler or Hammett. The dialogue fits perfectly to the movie. Like the line from Chandler "It was a blonde. The type of blonde to make a bishop kick a hole in a stained glass window". You can imagine both Bruce Willis' or Clive Owen's characters saying THAT line.

Even Mikey Rourke's last line is so pitch perfect to his character. The entire dialogue is spot on for the genre.

d) People are shot, pounded and pulverized and don't die.

It's a movie, from a set of graphic novels. That's the genre. Heck the end of "The Wild Bunch" is pretty similar, but that doesn't detract from that movie being the greatest American film of the 20th century. And isn't it really what you want in a movie, the good guys to keep getting up and the bad guys to go down horribly? That's oh so satisfying on a fundamentally moral level. I'm not looking for "realism" in movies, that's not why I go. If I wanted that, excreable flicks like Gary Oldman's "Nil By Mouth" would have been a box office smash and people would have seen Ewen MacGregor's "Young Adam".

d) Jessica Alba's relationship with Bruce's character.

Disturbing? Yes. Probably meant to be and Bruce realizes it's wrong and ultimately does something about it. He does the honorable thing. As I said previously, all the principle male charcaters are essentially good guys and do the right thing in the end. Ms Alba's motivation? I can quite easily accept that her affection for the one man who ever showed her kindness could, over time in a place as morally bankrupt as Sin City, become something deeper for her ( and so more difficult for him ).

e) The stories not connected.

They are if you stay to the end. Just not in any kind of grand way. The characters all cross paths, that's all. That's OK with me. Everyone doesn't have to know everyone else.

To conclude, this is one of the best movies of 2005, a perfect fit of style and more style.