In this sequel directed Kate Shea, a tormented girl (Emily Bergl) who possesses the supernatural power of telekinesis, (the ability to move or make changes in objects by force of the mind) is lured into a scandal, which is orchestrated by a bunch of over-sexed jocks. As she emotionally  falls apart, her peers prove that making angry could be a fatal mistake.  Although this film is entertaining to an extent, the overall dialogue,  directing, and writing of the film is considerably weak. The characters are  flat and undeveloped, so its very hard to empathize for anyone. Unlike the  original where there is a definite emotional outburst in the audience as we  watch Carrie's (Sissy Spacek) heart shatter when her first moment of true  happiness is demolished, by a bunch of cruel, mean-spirited classmates.  "The Rage: Carrie 2" may have worked if the last 20 minutes were  not thrown together so sloppily. By just watching the scene it looks very  B-quality and merely a careless attempt to feed the audience "eye candy." The humiliation scene is okay, the duration and/or the cruel nature could have been amplified a little to actually add some suspense. As for the final showdown, well that was just simply ridiculous in my opinion. Blood and severed heads were carelessly thrown around with absolutely no effect whatsoever.  Broken glass cannot cut a person's head off, and kill off an entire crowd of people. The fleeing extras were very lame, I found myself laughing in some parts. The duration of the scene was only about 4 minutes so as you can imagine you can't really have any suspense or fear when you have all that stuff flying across the screen all at once and in such a sloppy manner. I did like the b/w scenes with Rachel in front of the flames, but that lasted only for an instant. As for the part when Rachel reunites with Jesse at the very end, well that part I found myself really laughing...at how ridiculous it is.  How do you go from going completely unstable to the point of insanity, killing off half the senior class, to suddenly kissing and making a mends with your lover, after he obviously sees your destruction? The fact that he still fantasizes about Rachel a year later, seems a little dumb too. It seems that the last 20 minutes were either put together last minute or carelessly done thinking we as an audience wouldn't notice. I feel this movie really had a good idea going and would have worked really well but just wasn't carried out that great. It may sound like I hate this movie, I don't actually I'm just a little disappointed in it. Overall I think it's worth taking a look at, especially if you liked the original, but don't expect a classic.  END