I have just finished viewing this movie and I must say I was left with a number of questions, but first, I must tell you, someone in my hometown had rented the movie and kept it so the movie store had to order another copy so naturally i thought that the movie would be good. In the meanwhile, it seemed like throughout the movie, the young men were trying out for basketball playoffs. I mean, in the beginning the movie started off with two rival teams in Los Angeles at Steve Harvey's dance studio or WAREHOUSE as they refered to it as Rad's in the movie. You get a feeling that Steve's character wanted to reach out to the boys in some sort of way. He was giving them advice and hard discipline, but then the story just doesnt add up. I am confused if the girl Jennifer Freeman's character was really Marques Houston's sister, because when we first see her in the movie, she is talking with her mom, who is played by Jackee, who is supposed to be Marques Houston's mother as well, but when Marques is jumped by thugs who take his merchandise, no one comes to the hospital to see him but his boys, not even his grandmother or mother, only his sister and then you only see his mother and grandmother together again at the end of the movie when they are competing at the dance tryout for $50,000. Also, what is with the rain scene. The boys are always on the basketball court between their dance routines, but you never hear about them going to school, is the movie set in the summer time? Then we see Marques and his sister set against the backdrop of a South Central L.A. neighborhood as we see in other movies that have black youth, struggling to make it in the streets. I think the only real product of this movie was Beautiful, played by Meagan Good and that is because she is so confident and her character will not allow anyone to disrespect or degrade her. She tells Omarion or David, "you have to ask us to your car like ladies, we are ladies" when he comes to pick them up from work. The grandmother has somewhat of an influence on Marques' character, but the only real reason to watch the movie is for the dancing. It is no "Stomp the Yard" by any means, because there is no story line. Its more of a zig zag criss cross type of storyline. I think that if they had've let Marques character get more instruction from Steve's character in the movie, the movie would've had more direction, and then they wait till the last minute to put Lil kim in the movie and she didnt even judge the dance contest fairly until Steve Harvey said, "you got to take it to the streets, this is to important to them boys." I think it was a ploy to lure more age 11-17 year olds into the movies.