First of all, let me just say that, why is it that most black films are the only ones that can preach about "JESUS", without offending anyone? Anyone ever think about that? Most 'white' films about Christianity are Roman Catholic influenced. Rarely will you ever see or hear any 'white' preachers, in a 'white' film, even use the name of Jesus. But black films can get away with it. Well, i applaud the intention and motives of Mr.Tyler Perry...but i have to say, he sent the wrong message with this farce.

The film revolves around the character of Helen McCarter, and her abusive marriage to a one time drug dealer-turned lawyer. He gets a girlfriend and kicks her out of the house...after 20 years of marriage. Thru her cousin (played by Tyler Perry), she befriends a handsome young man that sweeps her off her feet. Before the film ends, her husband gets confined to a wheelchair. His girlfriend leaves him and he needs his wife to take care of him...which she does, unwillingly. She wants revenge and gets malicious on him (He's paralyzed from the neck down). She then learns from her mother and grandmother (also played by Tyler Perry), that she needs to forgive him. She does. All seems well, especially after they all attend church together, and seemingly start anew. After church they're all at the grandmother's house having a nice soul-food meal, and she get's up and tells her husband she's in love with another man, and walks out the door. The film ends with her in her new lover's arms. Now, if this is what Tyler Perry thinks is a Christian message of a movie, then I've got news for him!? The Bible says that a Christian woman that has an unbelieving husband, should stay with him and be submissive. Her Godly and Loving character may just save him. Nowhere does it say that we should leave to go find a 'better' lover. It does say a man can put away his wife, but it's not taught as the best thing to do.

I just feel that Tyler Perry is sending the wrong message with this film. Her husband cried and repented in church. She hugs him and cries with him and they worship God together. Then she runs out the door and into the arms of another man??? Excuse me, but that's just wrong.

 Not only that, but parts of this film were very vulgar and distasteful. It's not really what you'd want your children to watch. Drug usage, shooting, sexual innuendos...not really a family film. There were some very funny scenes, and much of it was entertaining ( i don't know which came first, this or the Nutty Professor films, but one of them is a rip-off of the other...at least Eddy Murphy didn't use Christianity as a crutch). Overall, i cannot recommend this one.  You'd be better off watching something else.

* One star.