I just finished this series today and I gotta say I'm not that impressed. Hell Girl also known as Ai Enma runs a website known as the Hell correspondence. Initially most episodes are episodic in the sense that each episode is separate story in which the protagonist gets wronged by some individual, usually the antagonist and they end up contacting the Hell correspondence so they can enact their revenge. Which seems like a good idea considering the moral implications in the story but this gets rather repetitive. First 10-12 episodes I found myself asking, "Is this series ever gonna pick up or is it gonna continue being episode after episode of characters being wronged and then getting revenge." I mean the first 10-12 episodes seemed like just a different character with a different problem and then enter Hell Girl to enact revenge Ad nauseam. It wasn't until later episodes that two characters a journalist named Shibata Hajime, a former blackmailer, and his daughter Tsugumi where the series starts to get more in depth as far as plot structure. As you progress through the series you learn the reason why Hell correspondence exists or but its never that clear who's really pulling the strings. I suppose in season 2 & 3 they'll be getting more in depth with the story line. I suppose the viewer will also find out the background stories of some of the people assisting Hell Girl. Considering that this story didn't have such a horrible ending is a redeeming factor but the rest just falls flat. Like in series like Death Note the viewer is pushed to ask themselves, "Do wrongdoers deserve punishment for their wrongdoing? Or is everything not always so black and white." These moral implications make the premise a lot more interesting but in the end you must always pay a price.

Rating 1-10
Animation: 8
I would have hoped that with the punishment being Hell they would have made the initial punishments a lot more terrifying graphics wise but the characters and background settings are very well rendered.

Story line: 7
Like I said the first 10-12 episodes are extremely repetitive and at first watch I had to put this series down for a while and watch something else but eventually the story gets more in depth.

Characters: 6
Most characters who assist Ai Enma in Hell correspondence aren't given background stories and some of the characters who dish out revenge have background stories that really aren't that well developed.

Replay Value: 0
I don't think I'll be watching this again.

Overall Rating:
I gave this an Amazon 3 out of 5 because I just thought it was okay. At first watch it seemed like an interesting premise for an anime but it wasn't well executed at all. The ending was pretty good and it left me interesting in maybe watching the second and third seasons but hopefully it won't be as repetitive.