I like Game of Thrones, that's why I bought it on blue ray, This is a review of the features not the show.

Usually when I buy a full season on DVD or Blue ray I feel a little bit cheated. Sure it comes with the show and that is why I bought it, but the features are always lacking IMO. This is not the case with this set. The first disc has a very in depth Character profile section, these are clips of the actors and show creators explaining who the feel they character is. This feature is well presented, and contains most of the characters from the show, not all unfortunately. Another feature was the In episode guide, Which is a pull out side menu that accompanies you as you watch each episode, this feature while functional and cool, does not add anything to the episdoes and all of the content is from the already given bonus features, so you learn nothing new. There are many other featurettes included on the last disk.

The best feature by far for me was The Complete Guide to Westros, this feature is awesome. It provides a great way for a new fan or even an old book fan like me a great way to go in depth into the history of westros and Essos. It is split into 3 sections History, Houses, and Lands. The Lands and Houses section is just text, but the History has many different topics ranging from the Children of the forest to ancient Valaryia's history, these topics are narrated by the actors from the show and lay out the history of this world very well, some topics come with multiple view points portraying how opposing Houses view a topic. Each video is composed of hand drawn images and many of them are very well done. While I didn't learn anything new, having the info put out there in that fashion really brought the history forward and made it tangible.

The next best feature was Anatomy of an Episode, this feature was unfortunately only available for episode six, but I loved it. The feature plays the episode but has pop out windows with the show creators discussing each scene in detail. I thought it was very well done and the presentation of it was smooth.

All together the Blue Ray edition is a must have for any fan of the show or books.