To be honest, there's no real way to top the first "Halloween". It was, and still is, a classic, and rightly referred to as the father of all slasher movies. The original created so many ideas (now standards in the slasher genre) that had never been done before and that was what made it so haunting and genuinely frightening. However along with the sequels came tired rehashes of old ideas, and pointless plot twists that inevitably lead the story down. Despite the downfalls that eventually plaugued the series, "Halloween II" is a great attempt to continue to the legacy that "Halloween" created. While it is not nearly as inventive or great as the original, its story, cast and ideas are far ahead of anything this series would do later on, which makes it a worthwhile viewing.

The major point that makes Halloween II worth watching, is that it picks up right where Halloween left off (There's even a small portion of the end of the last movie shown at the beginning of this one). The plot is probably the best part of the movie. Having the movie take place the same night as the first makes the two movies, fit together as one big story, which is something that few horror franchises (or movie franchises in general) have effectively done. Myers has been shot 6 times, and knocked out of the upstairs window of Laurie's house by Doctor Loomis (as seen in 'Halloween') and now Laurie has been taken to the local hospital to recover from the injuries she suffered in the first movie. It's in the hospital where much of the movie takes place. The hospital works just as well as a creepy setting, as the Strode house did in the original. You must suspend your disbelief a bit (the hospital is poorly lit, and there is only a handful of medical attendants on hand) to truly let the scenery take affect. The hospital creates some genuinely scary moments as there are many more places for Myers to lurk in the shadows before springing upon his unsuspecting victims. Some have criticized Jamie Lee Curtis' (who plays the heroine Laurie Strode once again) acting in this movie, citing that she has little or no emotion and seems to have not been interested in the movie itself. I however see it a bit differently. It would seem that after the traumatic events that Laurie has just lived through from the first movie, and that she has been given medication for her injuries should definitely play a role in the way her character is shown in this movie. I wouldn't expect her to just act as though nothing that happened in the first movie was a big deal. The effects definitely make Laurie out to be a much more estranged individual, which adds to the overall portrayal of Laurie Strode. The cast is also fairly decent for following the original movie. You of course get series vet Donald Pleasence returning as Doctor Loomis, as well as some new faces that help to add the mix. The characters aren't as memorable as those found in the first movie, but they do a good job of acting their parts. The killings of course are much more graphic than the original (even though some lack the intensity of the first movie) although some are laughable (like the hot tub scene), and the body count is of course bigger. However in terms of suspense and overall horror, it is the best in the series, behind the original. Combining the great plot with the cast and scares, it makes Halloween II equally as respectable as the original (although inferior I must admit).

No horror movie is ever going to capture the magic the original "Halloween" had. However "Halloween II" is probably the best thing that John Carpenter and co. could have done to follow the first movie. With all the other less than stellar sequels that followed, "Halloween II" remains one of the best movies in the series in terms of sheer suspense and horror. If you liked the original, then this is a perfect fit for you. It is criticized pretty harshly throughout the movie world, but that's mostly because its not the original reincarnated. Compared to all the other sequels the series has to offer though, you can do far worse. Give it a chance.