I remember hearing about this movie when it came out around 1999, it was around the time I was beginning to buy DVDs of some movies I liked (I paid 44$CAN for my first DVD ever, "Tomorrow Never Dies"). I didn't knew it was a Milos Forman movie so I wasn't even interested, I tought that the picture on the cover looked somewhat ridiculous. It was after I rented the movie "The Peoples VS Larry Flynt" that I decided to see it, since the two movies were written by the same writers and directed by Milos Forman, so I figured it would be another classic. It turned out to be one of the worst movies I've seen in a while, it have been so horribly mangled that the "Milos Forman" touch is not even present at all... As far as I'm concerned there's so much holes and continuity errors in the story that seeing it is a complete waste of time, I wouldn't call this a good memorial to Andy Kaufman's legacy, it would be more of an insult... I believe that since Milos Forman named his two latest childrens Andrew and Jim in honor of Andy Kaufman, my opinion is that there was a misunderstanding regarding the real Tony Clifton, who is apparently still alive and played himself uncredited in this movie. In any case a few years ago around 2008 I read the original script I found on the internet, with some imagination it give a glimpse of how it was intended to be originally, and it's easy to see it would have been of the same quality as the movie "The Peoples VS Larry Flynt", a "10" out of "10". Among other things, there was supposed to be a scene where Andy Kaufman is robbed after going out of the nightclub where he met his manager George Shapiro, and he act with the burglars as if he was on stage acting. A awful lot of other changes like that were made, probably during the editing process where they put the movie together... I don't know if the original parts were filmed or still exist, maybe it would be possible to "re-edit" the movie in the future so it would be as intended originally... It should be noted that either Milos Forman, Jim Carrey or the writers Larry Karaszewski and Scott Alexander worked seriously after that movie was made, Jim Carrey seem to work just for the fun of it and he do what he want...