Let's be honest and upfront about this.  I love Woody Allen movies and always have, right up through his last truly great film, Bullets Over Broadway.  Since then, it's been scattershot.  Mighty Aphrodite and Everyone Says I Love You were okay.  Hollywood Ending wasn't that bad.  Deconstructing Harry was an interesting change of pace.  Other than that, I can't say that I've enjoyed any of his more recent films.  Celebrity, Small Time Crooks, The Curse of the Jade Scorpion - nearly unwatchable.  It almost seems like he's phoning it in.
So turning to Anything Else, it appears that he might have learned some lessons from his previous efforts by removing himself as the romantic lead.  Thankfully - who wants to see Woody wooing Christina Ricci?  And also thankfully, he gave himself a part that is actually the best one in the film.  His wisecracking Dobel generates most of the genuine laugh moments in the plot alongside an under-used Danny DeVito.  Unfortunately, since Woody is not playing the main "Woody" character, it's left to Jason Biggs to more or less assume the persona which gave me some qualms, especially remembering Kenneth Branagh's Woody impersonation in Celebrity.  Surprisingly, Biggs pulls it off without lapsing into caricature but it's hard to digest that a twenty-something man would just happen to possess all of the neuroses and cultural tastes of Woody Allen as we have come to know him.
The same goes for Christina Ricci.  She doesn't do anything horrible in the film but her character becomes very tiresome very quickly and while it enhances the comedy elements surrounding Biggs's character, it's probably not the best idea for a romantic comedy to make one half of the loving pair so annoying.
Stockard Channing is also a wonderful actress with an interesting character who doesn't get enough screen time.  I know that a lot of actors make sacrifices just for the sake of being in a Woody Allen movie, but some deserve more when they achieve something.  I mentioned Danny DeVito earlier - his scene in the restaurant and Stockard Channing's when she plays the piano are gems.
Fortunately for the film, Jason Biggs can do subtle comedy and his character generates a lot of empathy.  Hopefully Woody has found a new niche for himself in his films as a major supporting character.  Dobel allows Woody to lapse back into some of his early career schtick without crossing the line that made most of us cringe at some of his more recent work.  Just in looking at the advertising and PR for this film, one would never know that it was a Woody Allen movie and it's a shame that it's come to the point where his name might be construed as a negative.