200 Motels is probably the most difficult Zappa project to follow, and that's saying something as most of his compositions are difficult to follow.

There are a number of themes running through the movie.  The most obvious is life on the road where most of the band is looking for groupies (in this case even Keith Moon dressed in a nun suit) and where to score some trendy chemical amusement.

Ringo Starr played Frank Zappa in the move. Theodore Bikel is the announcer and devil.  He was in the movie because he and Frank had the same agent, and `Frank was a very convincing person' according to his biography.
All of this time, the band is being tempted by the devil.  You mean he'll make me sin?  Yes Jeff, sin!  Wow! I'd like to have a word with you about your soul.

They then end up playing in cheesy towns with rednecks for an audience. What the f was that, play something I c'n enjoy, which was followed by Jimmy Carl Black singing Lonesome Cowboy Burt.  Then add some former members of the Mothers such as Don Preston lamenting that if he never joined the Mothers he could be a star.

Another theme is that Zappa is always listening to them and stealing their material, which was true.  Zappa used to have a tape recorder that he'd keep around (see the pictures in the Hot Rats album) and secretly record the band.  Flo & Eddie had access to one too.  Some of the recordings are included in the Playground Psychotics CD.

When the bassist Jeff Simmons was required to say things in the movie rehearsal that he had said in private, he quit the band just before filming.  The secret recording of Simmons quitting the band is also in Playground Psychotics.  This resulted in the hiring of another bassist who quickly quit.  Eventually Martin Lickert, Ringo Starr's driver comes in the door and it is learned that he can play a little bass.

There's also the life of the groupies in which Keith Moon plays the part of a groupie in a nun suit, which was originally intended for Mick Jagger!  Pamela Miller (DesBarres) makes her movie debut as a reporter.
Zappa's intention was to just have the players be themselves.  That way they wouldn't have to act.  According to him, the only real actors in the movie are Ringo & Bikel.

The orchestra gets lampooned by Ringo (stating Frank's lines) when he explains that a rock band can make millions while an orchestra member is an unimportant musician.  He recommends re-education camps.  The orchestra supposedly was so glad to be done with the movie that they ripped up the rented tuxedos at the end of the movie.

All in all, due to time and money restraints, 200 Motels was recorded to fit into a budget and hard to follow.  Lets face it, under normal circumstances some Zappa projects are hard to follow.  Even then, it still has some pretty good moments in it.  The ending credits show the print outs of the financial results and expenses of the movie.