I lack the scientific wherewithal to speak to the scientific accuracy of this film, but I do know a little something about Virginia Beach, having lived in this area for most of my life.

There's a scene in the movie where Elijah Wood and his sweet thing are running past a sign that says "Virginia Beaches, 6 miles" yet in fact there is no such place. Virginia Beach is singular and all the signs I've ever seen leading to the oceanfront say, "Oceanfront, 6 miles". But that's not my point here.

We seen that sign in the background just about the moment that the comet strikes the ocean. And then between the time the comet strikes and the moment the massive tidal wave comes to shore, we see Elijah and Sweet Thing going up the mountainside.

Those mountains, replete with pines and evergreens, appear to be the mountains of the Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains which are more than 200 miles from Virginia Beach. It's going to be mighty tough to get from the oceanfront to the Blue Ridge in the amount of time a tidal wave can travel from the ocean front to a few miles inland.

Then there's the scene where the guys in the spaceship are chasing the comet in space. They're flying into the comet's tail, and the space ship is taking a lot of abuse because of it. Watching that scene and knowing NOTHING about spaceships, I had to think, "Why not fly alongSIDE the comet and avoid the debris field?"

Lastly, the scenes of people's response to the news that the world was ending was not believable. We all want to think we'd be big and brave, but I doubt that we'd go about "business as usual" until a few hours before the world ended. I suspect there'd be chaos, even with the subtle hope that the comet's direction could *maybe* be altered with nuclear missles.

Thinking about my own life, I'd grab my dear husband and all the canned goods I could fit in my trunk and head up to those secret hiding places, high in the hills of his native home, West Virginia. I'd make this trek a LOOONG time before the last days of earth, mainly because I wouldn't want to die on westbound I-64, just as the movie depicted. (I guess that was I-64, which is THE road from Virginia Beach to the Blue Ridge.)

I surely wouldn't wait until the last minute to see how things went.

All that aside, I have to wonder about the rest of the science in this movie.

One last comment, I agree with other reviewers that the Tea Leoni was not believable as an anchor. However, the scene at the very end, where she and her father embraced and then braced for the end, was very touching.

Three stars for good acting and great actors and for the good sense to put Morgan Freeman in the lead role as President. Let's write him in on the next ticket! Morgan Freeman for president!!!