I admit that I never saw this movie until yesterday, however I now realize that I grew up hearing my parents recite lines from it all the time.  I never even knew that these particular expressions were from the movie, so imagine my surprise and delight to recognize them when I finally heard them spoken by the characters in the film.  I immediately called my 84 year old father, who told me that he and my now departed mother saw the movie in the theater when it first came out and loved it.  They often used to joke about the scene in which Katharine Hepburn falls into the canal, plus the famous line of Rossano Brazzi's in which he tells Katharine Hepburn to "Eat-a da Ravioli".  I split my sides when I heard that line, and found out that my parents split their sides too when they first heard it!  I know I heard my father say the line to me whenever I ate ravioli as a kid, LOL.

My father told me that my mother was a huge Rossano Brazzi fan - I remember her mentioning him to me when I was little.  Wow, now I know why she liked him so much!  Although my mother and I are of Italian descent, we never really went for Italian men.  For Rossano we would make an exception!

My Dad also told me that tourists flocked to Venice after that movie was made and wanted to see the spot where Katharine Hepburn fell into the canal.  What a beautifully composed movie, both cinematically and from an emotional aspect.  You can feel Jane's changing emotions in the way the scenery looks.  It's just gorgeous, and was actually quite pensive and moving at times (what a contrast to today's frenetically paced movies).  I was quite surprised at the quality of the cinematography - It was crisp and sharp and the colors true and vibrant, which is not all that common for movies of this era.  Plus the fashions were beautiful too - We would expect no less of Italy anyway, but even so, some of the clothing looked far more modern than in other movies of the time.  I wanted to freeze frame every little shot.  It's obvious that Lean took great care to set up every shot to be a postcard.

Yes, Katharine Hepburn's character is independent with a vulnerable side, as is fitting with her persona as an actress, but in some ways her character in this movie is also very much a product of her time.  Then again I know some women today who would act just like her in such a situation.  I guess I find Rossano Brazzi so attractive that his being "separated" is only a minor "detail" - Geesh, when you go on vacation in Venice and meet a handsome guy who's crazy about you, who cares?  LOL.  Do you really think you're going to have a life together?  That's kind of unrealistic, and part of a fantasy.  You can only enjoy it for so long.  When Jane wakes up to reality it is only fitting that she should realize she needs to go back home to America.  Some of this movie is a little trite, predictable and melodramatic, but it's so well done that you want to overlook that aspect as much as Rossano Brazzi's supposed unavailability.  Honestly, I'd "eat-a da ravioli" every day if just to be near him, LOL!