One imagines, I think, that it must be quite trying to live life not so much as a person, but as an institution; an icon - especially when this state of being isn't chosen, it's assigned.  There's little room for being human, or experiencing other people as they really are, not simply as the version of themselves they must be when in The Presence.  Deep, soul-rending mourning and this particular kind of status must make poor bedfellows indeed.

I should confess straight off that I am a rabid Anglophile and would be more than content to watch Dame Judi Dench read from the phone book.  She could burn down my entire town and I'd applaud.  With those biases admitted to, I should add that as I am well aware of them, I can and do step back from them in assessing this film.

But the result is the same.  Such a wonderful movie.  Talent abounds, the scenery is beautiful and Her Majesty is shown without her "modifier" - "Queen."  Here we have glimpses into a woman named Victoria, a woman who has lost her most beloved husband.  She, however, faces rather unusual circumstances.  Rare, I would wager, is the widow who has Parliament clamouring for attention, a Prime Minister ever at her door, a cabinet, and a nation all wanting their share.  What's a devastated queen/woman to do?

Find John Brown.  When John Brown came to service at Balmoral after Albert's death, it was not the first time he had been in service.  She first mentions him in her immaculate and lifelong journal several years prior to Albert's death.  His treatment of her as a person, with flesh and feeling, coupled with her innate fondness for Highlanders - the Queen was very unlike most of her English subjects in that she was refreshingly devoid, for the most part, of prejudices based around nationality or religion - produce in her some of the very first moments of peace and "lightening of the spirit" in the wake of what I am sure can be called the greatest tragedy of her long life.

All the above it played out in inimitably talented hands, all across the board.  Perfomances true and moving, landscapes sweeping and full of that beautifully moving and melancholy magic that is the vistas of the Scottish Highlands.

Long story long, my friends, buy it.  Yesterday.  'Nuff said.