Set in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, Kandahar follows the quest of Nafas (Niloufar Pazira) to illegally reenter the country three days before her sister -- whose legs were blown off by a landmine years earlier -- can carry out an intended suicide during the last eclipse of the 20th century. During her arduous trek through the war-torn wastes, Nafas encounters four distinct guides, each representing a different atrocity plaguing modern day Afghanistan: a defeated Afghan refugee; a fatherless young boy expelled from an Islamic religious school; an African-American militant turned healer; and a one-handed thief who claims to be the victim of a landmine accident. These encounters turn out to be the most structurally sound elements of an otherwise disjointed and unsatisfying narrative. The story is based on journalist Pazira's own unsuccessful attempt to reach a friend in Afghanistan after the Taliban took power. But the film is considerably less successful as a fictional odyssey through a harsh and hostile environment than it is as an exploration of modern war-ravaged Afghanistan. Substituting Iranian for Afghanistan desertscapes, director of photography Ebrahim Ghafouri captures stunning and indelible images, the most impressive coming when a group of legless men race on crutches to retrieve parachuting artificial legs dropped from a Red Cross helicopter. But director Makhmalbaf's lack of closure regarding the plot is frustrating -- we never learn whether Nafas ever reaches Kandahar and saves her sister. If the entire point is -- contrived from information gleaned via the closing frame -- that all of Afghanistan has been under an eclipse since the Taliban arrived, fine. But it needs clearer delineation to have the necessary punch so that audiences don't have to be left guessing as to what the ultimate point of the movie is, other than one of oppressed futility. The film runs a scant 85 minutes, so this was obviously an intentional decision, perhaps meant to reflect the ambiguity of international press regarding the conditions within Afghanistan (pre-September 11th). Yet Kandahar isn't a documentary, it's a feature film by one of Iran's foremost directors, and as such one would have hoped that the staging and acting were up to Makhmalbaf's usual standards. Sadly, the murky conclusion hampers an otherwise fascinating and utterly disquieting look at a place alien to many Westerners who up until recently couldn't have cared less about its people or politics.