I have not read this series of books although after hearing my movie going companion moan about how the story was butchered I'm inclined to read the books to see what I've missed.

Since I haven't read the books I went into the movie with an open mind and was totally disappointed.

All of the elements of a great story were there, the hero on the quest forced to make the decision to move forward into a great adventure.  The mentor to the hero that is trying to redeem himself from his real or imagined lack of honor/courage.  The fair young princess (read - love interest) that that hero must rescue but is a feisty wench in her own right.  The evil king who betrayed all that was noble and good to seize power for himself.  The son of the evil king trying to redeem himself from the family heritage that has blackened his name.  And the band of rebels holed up in their secret hide-out awaiting their hero to come when the time is right to strike.  All good elements of an action/adventure yarn to keep you on the edge of your seat.  Star Wars did it (well Chapter 3 did), LOTR did it, Robin Hood did it, several times.

Eragon missed, big time.  The story was slow, the character development - weak at best, no sympathy for any of the characters was developed.  When Brom died I was relieved for Jeremy Irons to finally be out of the slow torture that is this movie.  The FX on the dragon and the magic spells rocked, but that can't carry a whole movie.  The plot never explained who Princess Arya is and her relation to the king or the court.  And what's with that dragon?  Is it solar powered that flying into the sun for 5 minutes changes a cat sized lizard into a dragon that can seat a well built teenager?  There were a lot of story elements that didn't make sense to me but frankly, I just didn't care.

My suspension of disbelief snapped about 20 minutes into the film.  After that it was an endurance trial to see whether the movie would end before I started laughing out loud.

For what it could have been, this was a big disappointment for a movie.  Try the book instead - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/044023848X">Eragon (Inheritance, Book 1)</a>