Having grown up with the series when it originally aired (the series debuted on my birthday in September 1976!), I have been a fan since the beginning. So when the series finally started being released on DVD- I was thrilled!! Now first off this series debuted 35 years ago this year. The writing, the sets, the clothes...everything is going to seem VERY dated. But that is just part of the charm of Charlie's Angels. The series actually began as a 2 hour TV movie in March of 1976. The ratings were so huge the series was then ordered. Thankfully drastic changes were made between the TV movie and the series debut episode. The character of Woodville-a very starchy and BORING guy-was the main contact for the angels and Charlie. Bosley was there too but clearly there did not need to be 2 bridges to Charlie so they kept just Bosley. Wise decision. David Doyle's sparkling, endearing and befuddling portrayal of Bosley never lost its charm from season to season. Whereas Woodville wore out his welcome within minutes of appearing on screen. Also the angels gained more and more control over their assignments. Initially the men (Charlie, Bosley, Woodville) told them "you will go here. you will be undercover as this". The little women under the men's thumb. But once the series came about- episode by episode the girls took control. This was very much unheard of at the time. Sabrina Duncan-the high school cheerleader, formerly married, knows decent Spanish, has a knack for wacky undercover assignments and quickly became the unofficial leader of the angels. She knew how to jump into a case more so than Kelly or Jill. While more likely to be consertatively dressed- Sabrina was a tough cookie. Kelly Garrett- the orphaned little girl who hung with some rough characters in her young adult years (Re: dated a car thief once) was really wet behind the ears when the series began. In Season 1 she tried real hard but wasn't always sure of herself. Thankfully her confidence grew as the series did as well. Jill Munroe- the no bra wearing, fluffy blonde haired dynamo. She was all giggles, wiggles and cotton candy. A nuturing role model to young athletic girls but never came across as a serious investigator. She was the most likely angel to sneak in a room, open a closet and then leave without closing the closet door. Hence tipping off a suspect that someone was on to them. Jill was spunky and a free spirit. The angels really did seem like friends. Their chemistry was unmistakeable. Looking at the series as a whole- this was my least favorite season. Why? I didn't get caught up in Farrah fever and the future angels all seemed more into their roles as investigators. Jill didn't. I never warmed to her as much as all the others angels. Still- this show no matter the season was good clean fun!!