The film is a travesty compared to the book. I do not make the trite argument of whether or not the book is better than the film. That has nothing to do whatsoever with my review of this exploitation film.

My family has twice been through this sort of life-altering series of events, and after seeing the film in the theater with great expectations, i wanted to gouge my eyes out. The treatment of mental illness was handled in a criminal manner, and I can only guess that this was done out of sheer stupidity or ignorance on the director's part.

For people who have been through these tragedies before, this movie is merely a painful drudging up of the greatest sorrows and angers. (Don't see this movie.)  And for those who are unfamiliar with people in this condition, you should not be there at all. I only say this because the audience surrounding us in the theater laughed uproariosly during scenes in which we were crying. This is not the film to see for the average movie-goer with no background in severe mental illness. You would only become more ignorant for absorbing this film.

SIMPLE FACT: good acting or bad, making the actions of people with these mental illnesses into big jokes, into prop gags, is just plain wrong. And that is what the director chose to do. The audience howled in laughter during the most soul-crushing parts (due to perverse or moronically skillful direction), when they should have been greatly saddened by the condition of the mentaly ill people. It was utterly appalling.

I have not watched such an offensive, debasing film in a long time.  This movie exploits the mentally ill, while it makes the film-makers money. It makes those who have been through the pains of having helped family and friends with mental illnesses relive moments of terror unnecessarily. People inexperienced in this area who see the movie learn nothing or learn falshoods on the topic. The film is done in a trite manner with no regard to actually helping individuals with their lives. That alone is enough to say that this film is so horrible that there is no reason for anyone to see it ever. EVER. Never ever see this horrifyingly misguided explotation film.

And if anyone who reads this was on the production staff: producers, (adaptation) writers, the director... please feel free to contact me on this forum. Then we can move somewhere more private (e.g. e-mail). I would not mind having some words with you.

The unfortunate result for film viewers who have no dealings with the mentally ill on an intimate level more likely than not will come away from the movie thinking that severe mental illness is laughable at best and can be ignored at worst. Please do something better with your time and with your mind; stay away from this movie.