I am a huge Christina Ricci fan, however this film dissapointed me. The attempts at comedy seemed awkward and seemed to come at the most dramatic times of the movie. It just didn't *flow*. Oh, and while we're on the topic of comedy, the only funny parts of the whole movie were those shown in the trailer.
Christina wasn't beleivable as a sorority girl. The personalities of the characters were inconsistant -- one moment they were snobby and shallow the next caring, and then shallow again. She seems to have fallen in love with Pumpkin after one day of frisbee tossing.
I was confused also with the time period of the movie. I'm assuming it was meant to be modern day (it says "not long ago" in the very begining and she drives a Wolkswagen that wasn't too old) yet thats about all that suggests that. The hair and clothes are dated and so is the music they listen to. The movie seemed to portray a sorority in the 60's. 
On a positive note, although Pumpkin had very few lines, the camera really captured his soul. That's a good thing since the script and overall flow of the story didn't. I feel his character could have really been developed better, however it seems they were too busy at desperate attempts for a laugh. Another plus was the fact that the film was very colorful and beautiful to watch. That's about the only thing that kept me watching.
The end was dissapointing and confusing. The entire movie shows how a "normal" person and a mentally handicapped person can fall in love and connect on a deep emotional level. However, at the very end, one becomes disturbed when Carolyn asks pumkin grade-school question about metaphors and he obviously doesn't understand. She gives this, "what am i getting myself into" look to the camera as the walk off into the sunset. This seems to go against everything the movie was trying to say about two people in love and made me uncomfortable. It seemed to hint that Carolyn will spend her life being Pumpkin's mother rather than lover.  
You can tell that this movie was meant to make some sort of an impact, but seemed to take a wrong turn after the first ten minutes.