As a fan of the first film, The Bourne Identity, I had high hopes for this middle installment of Robert Ludlum's trilogy.  Sadly, director Paul Greengrass and cinematographer Oliver Wood failed to deliver.

Much of the film is just plain too dark to see.  Characters are often shot backlit against a window, and for some reason it never occured to Wood that he might have to throw a light on the foreground actor so we can actually see his face.  Instead we get a lot of unrecognizable silhouettes.

Greengrass is apparently of that school of directors that has never heard the words "tripod" or "SteadiCam".  The footage is so dizzying that you would have thought the cameraman was drunk during the entire shooting schedule.  SOME camera movement is fine during intense action sequences, but this film takes it to such extremes that the audience often cannot follow the action at all.  Edits are so tight that the viewer cannot orient himself to the new scene before he is whisked away to yet another which he cannot get a handle on.  As a result, the action sequences, especially the car chase scene through the streets of Moscow, are entirely incomprehensible.

My only other complaint is with the previews for this film, which made it out to be a cat and mouse game between Bourne and his former handlers.  I remember one specific scene where Julia Stiles' character says "He's doing exactly what he said he would do", referring to Bourne's warning in the first film that he would "bring this fight to your doorstep so fast" if they didn't let him be.  Yet that scene never made it into the final cut.  Yes, some of that cat and mouse does occur, but far less that you might expect.  The story is far more involved than we are led to believe, which is not necessaruily a bad thing, except when that story is told in the briefest glimpses by director Greengrass.  This is definitely one movie you'll have to watch about six times just to get the basics.  Sadly, that's not just because of the story's complexity - it's also because of Greengrass's very poor telling.

In the end, this film is definitely worth watching, but do so with some Pepto Bismal nearby, 'cause Greengrass' directing will definitely make you sick.  Identity's director Doug Liman, turned Executive Producer for Supremacy, should definitely take back the director's reins for the final Bourne installment.