I worked in El Paso as a TV news photographer, so I'm somewhat familiar with those events in Juarez.  I think this is definitely an important topic to make a movie about, but, as some of the other negative reviewers have stated, much of the dialog and acting is too over the top.  All the heated arguments between Lopez' character and her boss back in Chicago, and then the tense personal arguments between her and Antonio Banderas about whatever problems had happened between them in the past, was totally unnecessary to the story, and only served as distractions from the main subject matter, the mass murder of women in Juarez -which in and of itself is dramatic enough, so why add all the silly dialog about "if you do this I'll give you the foreign correspondents job..." bla bla bla...

Another thing that annoyed me was the way in which they tried to blend into the story certain elements from real life, but those real life things are all chronologically mixed up.  For example:  She's talking to her boss about the Egyptian suspect the authorities had arrested, and later, they hear the Juanes song "La Camisa Negra" on the radio.  That got me a little confused as to when this story was supposed to be taking place.  The Egyptian guy was arrested in 1995.  "La Camisa Negra" was released in 2005.

Also, When I worked in El Paso, I covered a press conference at the Cereso prison where the Egyptian guy spoke to the press -so extensively, in fact, that some of the TV reporters got annoyed, asking him, "How much of this do you really expect us to be able to fit into a 2-minute news story?"  So, the scene where the police detective angrily refuses to allow the press to interview the Egyptian, is somewhat inaccurate.

Lastly, when Lopez and Banderas arrive at the scene of one of the murders, the way Juarez police confiscated her camera and didn't allow them to take pictures, is the opposite of how I recall their relationship with the media.  Our CBS affiliate had a Juarez stringer who was always bringing back extremely gruesome closeup video of the cadavers.  Police over there would actually give the media much more freedom to photograph crime scenes, to the extent that journalists were allowed to cross the yellow police lines and walk everywhere the detectives went.  Not to say that was good, but I remember that's how it was.