Ok, I realize that bashing this film may be a little redundant with all the 200+ negative reviews it's already garnered it's self here on Amazon. It's been quite a while since I've written a review so please bear with me, negative reviews and all I'm going to try to just be fair and not go, "omgomgomgomfgandalf was it too dark and i couldn't seeeeee lolllllzzz"

I shall try to avoid that and I'll attempt to be informative and concise in my explanations and critiques.

Ok,
So the movie starts out exactly where the last one ended only somehow the big f-off ship they left in the first one somehow used the amazing predator shrinky ship technology to not only make it so small that it housed two predators a couple facehuggers and a dead pred who i guess they planned on allowing to decompose in front of the window during the long trip home? I don't know. But that's just as ludicrous as the beginning of the movie gets and I assure you while you're not trying to figure out whats going on in later scenes due to the excessively dark processing and color timing (I think who ever color timed this movie should never be allowed to work on a movie again), you'll be scratching your head questioning the logic of any and all characters including the two title species'.

So,
The movie has failed everywhere so far lets see what else I can add to that. Oh, I know. Direction.
Or lack thereof,
The movie is directed and acted much like the softcore cinemax porn films that you used to watch when you were in high school the only problem is they removed all the boobage and instead inserted a ton of predator ownage. That's right the predator owns the aliens in this movie he's even featured holding two (TWO not one) alien warriors by the throat for about 15 minutes while the two are completely helpless to defend themselves. And to those who might defend this film and say that he was a "cleaner" for the predator race, in the same way that Jean Reno was a cleaner in Leon: The Professional but to that I say what sort of bumbling idiotic race would entrust it's intergalactic anonymity to ONE guy? (I see a predator homeworld where the government is run by people unfit to manage the fryer at a local McDonalds).
But nevertheless the predator in this film is essentially invincible and you lose any and all fear for his sake which, I mean, if the Predator is to be the hero in this film shouldn't he at least be like able or have some sort of fault other than being ugly as all sin?

I think this movie would have played a lot better if it had been titled Predator 3: AvP because that's really all we're getting anyways.

I find it funny where we have part of a series that was once helmed by the likes of James Cameron, Ridley Scott, David Fincher, John McTiernan and the french guy that everybody hates who made Alien Resurrection. (His name was Jean Pierre Jeunet and he's an amazing director with the likes of Amelie and City Of Lost Children to his credit) that a couple of CGI artists best known for the effects on Galaxy Quest should helm the final (hopefully final) chapter in both series'.

Okay the soundtrack is ridiculous, one minute we're hearing an excerpt from Alan Silvestri's Predator score and the next we're hearing something from John Frizzel's Alien Resurrection. This is the most irritating thing about this movie and even as much as I hated the first AvP debacle, AvP-R removes any semblance of originality from it's format and choosing to just reiterate other peoples work.
This film is like a poorly made fan homage (Ever seen Batman: Dead End? It was seven minutes long and still an overall more entertaining alien and predator experience.) Complete with reenactments from the Hive ambush from Aliens, the predator duel from Predator and many other so called "nods" (I call them blatant rip offs) to the previous classics.

Ok still with me?
This disc lacks special features whatsoever. Ok it has two commentary tracks one with the directors and the other with the guys who make and wear the alien suits in every Alien film excluding Ridley Scotts original Alien. Ok I have as much desire to gain an insight into the brothers Strausse methods of film making as I desire to really see where the stuff I flush down the toilet goes when it's all done. The second track is slightly more interesting in a fanboy sort of way.

This might sound redundant but the acting in this movie is likes of which cinemax late night actresses can point and laugh at. I'm not kidding these people are some cross between what you would have expected from an 80's B movie and a random bunch of spoofers you could find on youtube. The acting in this movie is really pitiful, let me just say that much about it. I think the most well acted part in the film was the Predator, actually.

What I can say is good about this movie is that they didn't wimp out and they went for over the top blood guts and gore in this movie, however they go at it with the subtlety of a 500 pound gorilla attempting to perform brain surgery on a gnat with a rubber mallet and some of those safe for kids scissors. But whatever I guess beggars can't be choosers when we have to follow up the total lackluster and pg-13 AvP which could have been good if Paul WS Anderson would have stood up for the fans of this franchise a little bit. Not that the brothers Strausse did that either, they simply walked into a movie that the studio could have cared less about so they got to make an R rated film without even having to convince a studio.
Whoops this was supposed to be the part of the review where I say POSITIVE things about this film.
To continue,
The movie does feature some of the best mechanical effects I've seen in a film in a long time. The Predator looks awesome if not a little bulky and weighted down sometimes. The Aliens are so/so not really bad but not really great either, besides you can only just hardly make them out half of the time.
The Pred/Alien, okay this odd creature was certainly an interesting one and it's one of the few things I give this film kudo's for. While it's really not that fun to watch anything's better than ANOTHER knock down drag out fight with the queen alien. I would never dare accuse the brothers Strausse of originality but I do like the idea they chose to expand the alien a bit. Which was something that was done in every Alien film except for the first AvP.
Kills!
There are some great kills in this movie, not quite the caliber of Eli Roth but still there are some decent kills in this movie, if not some of the coolest in either franchise.
It's a short film, ordinarily that wouldn't be a plus in a movie review but for this one I'll make an exception. The 101 minutes of the Unrated version I own is about 11 minutes too long in my opinion but oh heck whats the difference.

Oooooooookay. I suppose you've read this far and are wondering why I bash this movie so hard. Well, my only Christmas present last year was to go see this movie. So I went all bright eyed and full of hope for it. Because I really did have high hopes for it. I watched the movie and was thoroughly disappointed on all fronts. I've been into the Alien and Predator films since before I was old enough to spell 'mandible' and my fandom has made the transition to geekdom long ago. I watched the movie and left the theatre utterly deflated, like I had lost an important basketball game or like a little kid kicked me in the shin at the mall for no reason and called me ugly.

I only own this dvd because it was given to me and the only reason I haven't given it to a homeless guy to add warmth to his barrel fire is that it completes my alien/predator dvd collection.

Useful tips if you've already bought this film:
Inebriation: Inebriation, has the same effect on bad movies as it does on women. They look much better than they actually do, but then when you see them again and your sober you have a big "WTF???" moment.
Objectiveness: Be objective, think of it more as a comedy about bad actors and alien superbeasts and it's actually a riot.