straight-laced "perfect" girl wants more commitment from her straight-laced "perfect" man; Then Girl meets a rough and mannerless loner (but of coarse he's really just misunderstood & hides his feelings with a coarse exterior.)  And of coarse they "hate" each other. Righhht. And yada, yada, yada opposites attract and they get feelings for each other.  Sound familiar?

So basically this movie is predictable at least as far as the overall plot is concerned.  It's you're basic romantic comedy movie that was obviously written by a guy as most of these types of movies are.  Or if women were on the writing staff, they obviously didn't put as much into the script as the males did. Hints to this are:

1. The coarse and a-holish male lead who at this point is still a stranger gets to walk in on the woman while she's in her underwear; he ignores her demands to exit the room while she's changing and she finds this behavior 'charming.'

2. The female lead is of coarse proper and neat, and full of manners & always prepared because that's the way girls are... and the male lead is dirty, rough & mean because that's the way guys are.

3. The male lead gets to act like an a-hole (but he has an excuse because his girlfriend left him) and allows her luggage to be stolen by people he knows to be thieves...but then after he's had his laughs with that, he decides to get into a bar fight with them to get the stuff back and she finds this "impressive."

4. Female lead walks all over ireland including up a steep hill towards an irish castle in 4 inch heels and the tinge of pain never flashes across her face.  Even though the little miss perfect type would wear heels like that, there would be blood after walking all day in those on hard ground and then walking up a hill.  That was just too much.

So what's good about this movie?  Well quite frankly the female lead.  Don't know her name, but she is superb in her role and she really makes the entire movie. Seriously.  Without her I really think this film would've been quite boring given how predictable and average the script is.  The costume design is also great.  Really brought out the characters.  The actress does wonders for this boring overdone script & she is the reason to watch this movie.