Dhoom 2...seen it, loved it. Before I continue with the actual movie review I'd like to comment on a couple of things. The first comment being the comparison between Bollywood and Hollywood; I personally don't think it's a totally fair comparison because we're talking about two extremes that are seeking a mutual ground. Both movie industries command respect in their own way and much so among those familiar with them. So a note of warning, if you're looking for Hollywood standard stunts with Mission Impossible type action and precision, you might want to look elsewhere. But if you're a risk taker...Dhoom 2 is your movie.

Another point I'd like to make is about the vibe on the kiss between Ash and Hrithik (the female and male lead characters in the movie). For goodness sakes Hrithik is married and Ash is engaged, but both are such good actors that they light up the screen so well and make their romance believable enough to threaten some people. Now that's what I call good! Dhoom 2 is definitely not the first Bollywood movie to have a scene with smooching in it, (see Neal N Nikki, Bunty Aur Babli, Bluffmaster, Kaho Na Pyar Hai, however short the kiss may be) but it is the first to make headlines and land in court for it. Another thing that baffles me about the Indian culture (I'm not Indian but a total Bollywood buff) is how the concept of Bollywood actresses in skimpy, revealing cloths swaying the most attractive parts of their blessed hourglass bodies to the exotic rhythms of percussion instruments is perceived as okay when a kiss is a taboo. Even the traditional sari with all the adornment and striking colors that make the wearer stand out only serve to accentuate the wearer's curves and most definitely arouse the senses of an observer, be it male or female. So it's fine to get as far as the edge, one may even fall over the edge as long as you're not caught locking lips, well...I think this is absolute contradiction.

Now that's said Dhoom 2 is about an international thief (Hrithik Roshan). Like any thief of his caliber he has rules. He works alone; makes his own tools which include robots and holograms to use in a heist; wears disguise so no one knows his true facial features; steals only perfect priceless artifacts and has a knack for numbers. Plus he goes by Mr. A and leaves his mark behind after every heist.

In India, there's the police department trying to catch up with Mr. A. before he starts the raid on Indian artifacts. The department's prominent trio is Jai Dixit (Abisheck Bachchan), Shonalia (Bipasha Basu), Ali (Uday Chopra). Their plans to catch Mr. A. all become futile, thereby taking the chase to Brazil. In comes Suneri (Aishwarya Rai). She's also a thief in her rights, but she is being plied to work with the police department in return for an expunged record. Well the story goes that she's able to convince Mr. A. enough that he breaks his rules. He takes her on as an apprentice and even reveals his true identity, so much so that they create a form of "trust" and then a romance ensues. Time comes for Suneri to decide to give up Mr. A. to the police or allow the romance blossom. Well you have to find out the rest in the movie and how she makes her decision.

Pros:
1. Noteworthy songs, partly in English with a lot of hip-hop vibe and attitude
2. Good looking actors and actresses...a dose of Dhoom 2 might make you reconsider eating another burger
3. Big name actors plus above average performances
4. Action plus comedy plus romance plus adventure all rolled up in one movie. Funnyman Uday steals the show with all his pranks. I found myself cracking up in every scene he's in.
5. Exotic locations plus really beautiful colors

Cons:
1. Not a well rounded plot. Bipasha's character could have been easily dropped out of the movie and one won't even know the difference
2. Not-so-good lines/script for characters but compensated for with the sexual tension between the lead characters
3. How hard is it to identify a guy in a bandana, fake side-burns and hair extensions as compared to when he's not.
4. Stunt precision isn't...well how does a guy on roller blades outrun a helicopter? Why will you disembark a helicopter on motor bikes to start a high speed chase that might just as well be done in the helicopter and for goodness sakes from the rear of the tunnel too?

Overall Dhoom 2 is a good movie. An above average attempt for a Hollywood thriller and a definite A-plus for a Bollywood movie...oops there goes the comparison again. If you can overlook the downside of the movie, Dhoom 2 is one of those movies you can just sit back, kick off your boots, relax and enjoy the ride.