I have to admit that I had high hopes for this flick. The two main actors, Foxx vs. Butler, in an Epic show down that by the trailers looked "Biblical" had me excited from my first viewing of the trailer.  After having watched the entire movie, I am left with feelings of confusion and frustration.  I'll attempt to explain with minor spoilers...

The script has huge holes and is confusing.  Like I stated above it's hard to discern who the Hero is supposed to be. Foxx is an egotistical lawyer who cannot stand to lose.  He will cut deals where deals shouldn't be cut just to get the untarnished record. (Some justice is better than none). There is a scene where his daughter views a disturbing video that would obviously traumatize an adult, yet the whole scene is dropped as Foxx's character ignores his family and focuses solely on Gerard's character as he proclaims to Gerard's character that many have tried to outsmart him and have failed.  The movie tries to portray him as sympathetic and you can see that Foxx is putting a conflicted expression on his face.  However the fact that he ignores his family completely and cannot lose is unacceptable.
Gerard's character starts out as a very sympathetic character and then in a blink of an eye, he is transformed into a cold blooded killer no better than those who killed his family.  He promises "Biblical" retribution that never comes.  He is proclaimed as the most intelligent tactician ever, and yet he is suddenly out smarted by Foxx's character who magically moves a ticking bomb miles away within minutes.  I was utterly disappointed and let down.

In the end I didn't want either character to win.  I found myself hoping that Gerard would take Foxx's character out and then be taken out himself.  No redeeming qualities come out of Foxx's character and the end scene is meant to do just that but ends up putting the final nail in the frustration coffin. There was nothing special about this movie and I wouldn't recommend it unless you are one of those that have to see it for yourself.  Take it on me, it would be better to just believe the review and leave this on the rental shelf.  Do not buy it unless you enjoy wasting your money.