Trying to create an art film by pretending to question what they pretend are not actually the very controversial topics that they are (i.e. abortion, homosexuality, invitro fertilization, etc) within many subplots...this film ultimately fails by purposely failing to make a main plot out of any intellectual points of question brought about in the story.

It is almost like the director Don Roos had just taken a screenwriting class and was trying to incorporate various taught film mechanics into an independent film. The captioning that is spread throughout the film is almost cliched and ultimately leads the viewer down deadends.

Does Mamie regret not aborting the son she later meets after the whole movie is intertwined with what blackmail she goes through to meet him? She seemed to have no intention of hunting down her given-up child before being blackmailed to do so. After she does meet him, which is shown without any audible dialogue or real interaction, there is nothing more shown about the subject, other than her dancing at the end and he is in the room.

 All we know is that she nervously claims not to be "pro-life" after Jude derides her for referring to her fetus as a baby. The only real reaction we are given is overblown and questionable.. after she runs out of the boy's home and is subsequently hit by a car. We are told at the beginning that she is not dead, and we are shown this at the end. But to just be "not dead" at the end is not a very good character analysis.

Most of the characters are dealing with new cultural troubles such as: questions about who a son's sperm donor was, a homosexual affair, a gay boy being blackmailed for his very gayness, a girl questioning abortion because she does not know if the child is this gay boy's or his fathers...this all seems to be presenting us with problems that are problems of problems.

I think Roos is just trying to present these problems as problems to be considered as "normal problems," and not for what they are. He does not help us understand these problems through any point of view on his part. Maybe this is because he does not know anything more about them than just being able to identify them. It is as if he had originally been unaware that adultery, sex business work, and abortion causes such identifiable problems? Well, I guess it's a start, but it makes quite an intellectually devoid and soul-less film experience. It's almost like he has just made a trite list.

I think the actually presented irony of "happy endings" by Mamie's anxiety over what Javier says they are for the women he lays is one of the few real clues given that could help to really identify this "sad" film...but this is definitely not a purposeful premise on the part of the director.