Shakespere's late military drama "Coriolanus" is rarely staged. Perhaps the most famous modern production was at Stratford-upon-Avon: during the run Olivier injured himself in his spectacular death scene and had to be replaced the next performance by a young Albert Finney, leaping into stardom. To my knowledge the new movie version is the first time the tragedy has been filmed, and a very impressive d&eacute;but it is. Ralph Fiennes, who seems to have made a career playing aloof patronising men (Eugene Onegin, et al), is making his own directorial d&eacute;but, guiding himself in a strong performance as the fatally disdainful patrician. He has placed the 5th Century BCE story in our own 21st Century with almost depressing relevance: the military invasion, the political back-stabbings, the bloody assassination are all alarmingly suitable. Most of the violence is presented in the opening sequence, as the Romans storm Carioli and Caius Marcius single-handedly defeats the citadel, earning himself the honorific title Coriolanus. Both Carioli and Rome seem to be suffering inner-city blight as filmed by cinematographer Barry Ackroyd, but, considering the bleakness of this story, his neorealistic vision is apt. The acting  of Fiennes's supporting cast is also realistic, no one attempting a "grand" style, yet remaining faithful to Shakespeare's expression. Brian Cox is especially good as Menenius, and his scenes with the two conspirators played by James Nesbitt and Paul Jesson are some of the best in the picture. (By the way, during the crawl credits at the end, we learn that two of the Roman citizens have been christened Cassius and Tamora, dark characters from other tragedies.) Vanessa Redgrave is Volumnia and gives the part a great deal of stern dignity, never allowing her formidable character to become nasty. Volumnia is first and foremost a mother. (Interesting note: Miss Redgrave, who is the daughter of Sir Michael Redgrave, has yet to become Dame Vanessa. She is, of course, a political activist.) Gerard Butler, as Aufidius, is the only cast member who seems to be slightly out of sync, though his hunky presence makes him a believable warrior. The picture is only about two hours long, so needless to say a lot of Bard has been excised; but John Logan's screenplay retains enough of the plot and poetry to make this a worthy Shakespearean production.