Having never watched Grey's Anatomy before, I decided to rent Season 1 Disc 1 several weeks ago and was instantly hooked. I have since been marathoning through the seasons. I looked up reviews on Season 4 to see if it was just me, or if the acting and story lines had truly gone to hell. I was relieved to read that the writer's strike played a role, and so am regaining hope of recovery in Season 5.

Seasons 1-3 established each character with depth, and Season 4 threw all of it into doubt. Not only were the story lines ridiculous, the actors' personalities became very uncharacteristic and, therefore, no longer compelling or believable. They resorted to juvenile behaviors all around, petty bickering, and lost their humanity as they ravenously hungered for the worst patient traumas like vultures circling over prey.

Yang, one of the most interesting characters IMO, loses her confidence and her aggressive pursuit of surgical practice and becomes a flailing submissive resident who constantly bows her head in shame. O'Malley, formerly sexy with his adorable innocent personality, becomes a total goofball darting about with zero "swagger." Stevens, previously the most compassionate and emotionally attached intern, now behaves like a shallow high school girl who could care less about her patients (except in rare moments, when the old personalities and story lines come through temporarily).

Oh, and EVERY patient that EVERY doctor treats codes on the table, which became so predictable I had my fast-forward button under my thumb for these events. They also upped the gore factor - not my idea of better entertainment.

As for the lesbian conversion thing, it could have been an interesting twist if it were - AT ALL - believable. Since it had NOTHING to substantiate either character's inner sexual identity turmoil from the first 3 seasons (apparently written in by the substitute writing staff?), I'm guessing I'm not the only one who found it a pathetic storyline to watch.

If you are a Grey's fan, maybe you will "tolerate" this season as I did, half watching while half doing other things, in the hopes that you won't be too lost if/when the next season brings things back to life!

Whew... eesh... and ugh.