I was amazed when I found this video, thinking "my goodness-Al Pacino-I can't believe I haven't heard of this before".  After seeing it, I'm thinking "Now I know why I had never heard of this, and I wish I were still  ignorant!"  Afterwards, I just had to look it up and submit a review on  it-something I've never done before.  This movie is just begging to be beat  to a pulp.  Reading Greg Russell's review was far more entertaining than  the 125 minutes I spent watching this waste of celluloid.  I kept watching  the movie (being a bit of a history buff) thinking "this has got to get  better-any minute now".  It doesn't.  Unless you have a penchant for  self-torture, don't waste your time, money or energy with this film.  In  fact, if you DO have a penchant for self-torture, poke yourself in the eye  with a sharp stick for 125 minutes.  Certainly that will be more rewarding  than the constant tease, waiting for someone to sympathize with, some event  to cheer for, something to enjoy.  From a content perspective, it seems  that the scriptwriters went out of their way to find everything base,  disgusting, dark and slimy with both sides of the American Revolution,  while ever so carefully leaving out anything uplifting, noble or  praiseworthy.  By doing so, they did not make it more accurate, they simply  made it more base, disgusting, dark and slimy.  This movie is an insult to  the Americans AND the British.  This is NOT a movie for kids, unless you  want to totally deflate their patriotism (speaking to Americans) and fill  them full of inaccurate drivel.  I challenge the notion that this is a  common man's perspective on the Revolution.  The Revolution could not have  succeeded if this were, indeed the typical common man's perspective.  From  a style perspective, it's just a rotten movie-badly filmed, badly acted,  badly put together, bad sound, gee, what else is there to say?  This is a  movie where, had I seen it in the theaters, would have built a sign and  protested in front of the theater until it stopped showing it.  It is very  probably the worst movie I've seen in my life.