And so it happens that the media moguls have conspired once again to recreate yet another of our national traditions:  the annual reprise of a motion picture that has been blessed and certified by the entertainment  industry as a "classic."  Only rather than let the test of time  determine what films are worthy of this especial classification, it is  instead forced down our throats with unrelenting promotional hype and  non-stop broadcasting, as is frequently done with "A Christmas  Story" on any of several Ted Turner-infected stations.  But this time,  the moguls got it right.
"A Christmas Story" is fast becoming a  Christmas tradition, where families gather around the television to enjoy  the warm sentiments and precise humor that decorate this film much as they  would gather around the Christmas tree to open presents.  And the reason is  simple.  "A Christmas Story" brings us back in touch with our  youth and the time of our life when we could daydream, feel carefree and  unbridled.  I have never seen another film that so perfectly captures the  unassuming, innocent imagination of a child and portray it on screen.  Who  cannot relate to little Ralphie (Peter Billingsley) and his desire for a  Red Rider BB gun?  We all felt the same way at one time or another for the  toy we had our own hearts set on, and the bitter disappointment when our  mother gave us her own rendition of "You'll shot your eye  out."
Jean Shepherd's heartwarming tale is filled with hysterical  anecdotes and memorable characters like the father (Darren McGavin) and his  "tapestry of obscenities that, as far as we know, is still floating in  space over Lake Michigan."  Don't worry, his "obscenities"  are mumbled and indiscernible.  And the scene with Ralphie and Santa Claus  in the shopping mall is so side-splittingly funny that I would urge you  refrain from drinking beverages while watching it.  One slightly  disappointing observation was the lack of anything religious or suggestive  of Christmas' true meaning anywhere in the film.  But if we should ever  need a quick reminder, we can always look to Linus in "A Charlie Brown  Christmas."