Wow this movie started with great promises.  The movie itself is entertaining to watch, the music is just fantastic, and the dance sequences are spot-on.  The costumes, digital effects and art direction are interesting and tasty.  I enjoyed seeing Andre move around the screen.  They have all of the elements here to make an outstanding, spectacular musical that could have put Chicago to shame.

But it didn't.

The problem lies in the script and director.  First of all, there were scenes that were simply out of order.  Characters had information before they should have.  Had they flipped the scenes around, it would have nudged closer to fulfilling its promises.  But there are some basic directing pitfalls from which a lot of new filmmakers suffer.  Not enough time passes.  Days lasted entirely too long.  Many individual scenes go on too long, thereby omitting the opportunity for a new scene that would have better developed the characters and plot.

There are some technical flaws as well.  There's a night scene early on that uses rack focusing to draw your attention between characters.  However there's one angle that has neither character in focus and jars you out of the scene.  There's a great profile master shot between Andre and Ben Vereen is overly backlit thereby washing out the characters.

And Ben Vereen is simply wasted in this movie.  He plays one note.  Had the script been allowed to breathe, they could have given him life and the opportunity to shine.  There's neither growth nor resolution with Ben.  In fact, most of the movie suffers from a lack of growth.

Terrence Howard gets off to a rocky start.  His character is far too stiff jawed.  By the end of the movie he finds his cool and salvages the role from its poor direction.

Antwan Patton dominates when performing, but he winds up a frustration in character development.  He meanders through the dramatic scenes lacking purpose.

There is nudity in the film that feels thrown into the mix for nudity's sake.  It felt gratuitous and unnecessary.

This is supposed to be a musical.  But the script doesn't take advantage of the musical numbers as a device to advance the story.  Yet the musical scenes that were included were so well done, so exciting, they left me wanting more.

It's a movie worth seeing, but put in the hands of a seasoned director, it could have been brilliant.