I couldn't get through this film until I was 4 months pregnant. Otherwise, without dialog, it was too boring. (I found the cats more entertaining to watch.) I'm not one of these people that thinks babies are cute so perhaps if you are, you'll like it more.

As a parent-to-be, I found the contrast between the consumer lifestyle of first world countries with third-world countries very interesting. I was also intrigued with other culture's hands-off approach to parenting. But, after watching the movie, I find that it didn't probe these differences enough for me to make a decision about which method is healthier. In fact, it mostly confused the issue. (Some might say that the movie was not trying to indicate one method was better than another... but I think, very subtly, it was definitely criticizing first world methods and presenting the "Noble Savage" methods as something more respectful.)

For instance, in one scene, an African baby takes the toy of his older sibling. The older sibling takes it back. The baby hits him. The older sibling hits back. The baby cries and no one comes to comfort him because no one is watching them. As a viewer, my first reaction was, "Well, that will teach the baby not to take toys and hit! I'm glad the mother didn't rush in and scold the older sibling."

But, then, later, I watched an older Mongolian toddler full out attack his younger baby brother and no one intervened. He simply kept hitting the baby until he got bored. All the while, the baby was crying. No one came to his rescue. Then, the minute that little baby learned to stand the first thing he did was reach over and grab someone who was smaller than him and made her cry. What had he learned? If you are bigger, you can beat up on those smaller than yourself.

So, which is best? Give children less supervision and let them sort it out for themselves, risking that one child will abuse the other, or intervene and risk over-protecting your child? Which is the worse evil? Over protection or a bullied/bullying child? The film did not answer these questions or even probe these questions deeply.

Also, I found it a little distasteful that the film makers rushed to make fun of "first-worlders". The scene where the little girl in Japan had a room full of toys and seemed bored and unhappy was contrasted with the little boy in Mongolia who was tied to a bed and was SOOO happy to get a roll of toilet paper to play with. The message, "We give our children too much!" was loud and clear throughout the film. But at this point, I thought, "WAIT! We don't know if the baby in Japan was bored and unhappy because of her toys. She could simply be overdue for a nap! Also, I bet the boy in Mongolia has similar, cranky, overstimulated days and moments, also!" It got me wondering if I was actually being presented with the truth of the situation or with a trendy message about American consumerism.

And the little clips of the San Fran couple singing tribal songs about the earth mother with their children while inter cut with clips of the real African tribe... come on! Everybody knows we're suppose to laugh at the stupid Americans at this point. All that did was make me wonder at the agenda of the film-makers and if they were presenting an accurate picture of both American parenting and other culture's.

So, was it worth my time to watch as a parent-to-be? Yes. It will definitely make me think more about being too over-protective and too involved in my child's life. But other than as a "caution sign" in the back of mind, I'm not sure if this film is actually going to change any of my parenting behaviors (I'm still going to buy tons of learning toys because is it better to risk over-stimulating the child, sometimes, or risk under stimulating the baby's brain and s/he lags in development?) So, see it but expect it to confuse you a little bit about how to parent and don't expect it to answer any questions.