I had such high hopes for this movie.  After watching it, I felt betrayed.  I have been a fan of the Alien and Predator series for as long as I can remember.  I've played the games, read the comics, read the books and seen all the movies.  The AvP movie was by far the worst representation of these two franchises to ever grace (disgrace?) the cinema.  First of all a PG13 rating?  What the f@&% is that all about?  The movie might as well have been PG.  Hell, why stop there?  Make it G so my 2 year old daughter can go see it.  Paul W.S. Anderson can have the Aliens and Predators playing pattycake while the humans form a circle around them and play duck, duck, goose.  (Now, I'm just being silly)  Seriously though, what's the point of bringing together the two baddest Sci fi characters in history if you're not going to represent them the way they should be?  Why even put humans in the movie to begin with?  I mean, okay, you could use them as fodder for the aliens to reproduce with.  Other than that you really don't need human interaction when it comes to these two franchises.  Aliens and Predators can do a good job of kicking each others asses without human interference.  Apparently, Mr. Anderson thought humans were integral to the plot.  In my opinion, he should have followed the plotlines of the PC games or even the books.  Instead of the humans being scientists, they should've been Colonial Marines.  Also, place the setting of the movie in the future on some other planet.  Not present day Earth.  The fight scenes were dizzying and obscure for the most part with a few exceptions.  Aliens gestate way too quickly.  2 minutes and they're a chestburster already?  Whatever.  This was a total disappointment in almost every sense of the word.  A different director, a different backdrop and an "R" rating would have made this film so much more.  If you want real AvP action, read the books or play the PC games.  If you want "just barely passable" AvP action, stick with the movie.