There are a couple spoilers in this review, but none give away the ending.
If we were to cut all the filler out of The Matrix: Reloaded, we'd be left with a ten-minute movie. On the other hand, if we were to cut all the filler out of The Matrix, we'd be left with a 136 minute movie. Scenes in The Matrix: Reloaded are either unnecessary but cool fight scenes, necessary but boring dialog scenes, an unnecessary, endless AND boring chase scene; an unnecessary and nearly unwatchable sex scene, or (just occasionally) necessary and cool dialog scenes.
First, the good. The special effects are excellent, as you'd expect. The fight scenes are mostly good: the rooftop battle between Morpheus and an agent (the sole highlight of the chase scene) and Neo's duel with the French guy (or the Merovingian - I'll just call him the French guy from now on)'s minions of doom are great, and the multiplying Agent Smith/Neo fighting with a ten-foot pole scene is decent, though overlong, indulgent, and stupid (that many Agents would have killed anybody else, but Neo is "The One", so of course he survives). The ghost-people that the French guy enlists also are interesting, but only in that they can do that phasing thing - otherwise, they're stock characters. The Oracle's still charming as ever, and the conversation between Neo and the Architect is good by this movie's standards.
Now for the bad. Other than the Architect, none of the new characters are at all interesting: the kid who idolizes Neo is annoying; the French guy is pompous, self-centered, and impossible to hear (He's soft-spoken and talks in a heavy accent); his wife is just a cold-hearted killer; Seraph (the Oracle's bodyguard) is totally useless; and the Keymaker just runs, hides, and randomly drops down dead. I guess Niobe is all right, but she doesn't have half the personality that other female characters Trinity , The Oracle and Switch had.
I say "had" there for two reasons; Switch obviously died, and Trinity is no longer an intriguing character either. In the first movie, she was, but all she seems concerned about now is screwing Neo. Speaking of Neo, his transformation into a Christ-like figure has robbed him of any personality - he does way too much of that "Superman s#@!" (including a self-indulgent flight scene "borrowed" from the Superman movies - taking a few cues from your dad, eh Keanu?), and simply doesn't seem like a person anymore. Morpheus has also suffered, mutating into a faceless revolutionary. He does a lot of wild-eyed, inconsequential shouting. Not much else. The dialog, too, is painfully bad.
So there you have it. A triumph of style over substance. A lot of slow-mo kicks (they could at least speed time up, just for variety's sake), explosions, techno music and Neo's Messianic posturing. Not much of a plot, though, and not much of a movie. Stick to the first - it's bound to become a classic. The Matrix: Reloaded is not.