The first thing I noticed when I picked up this 2 disc set was the phrase "From the Producers of the original Highlander" emblazened across the top of the case.  This is intentionally misleading, since the producers of the original film are also the people who produced all of the wretched sequels since, Bill Panzer and Peter Davis.  If there's one thing they've shown us throughout their association with the Highlander "franchise", it's that they'll stoop to new lows to milk their cash cow, with no regard to continuity whatsoever.  Supporters take the stance that, for their to be any sequels, the end of the original film must be ignored.  This isn't so: a character who's 450 years old has plenty of history to explore, and there could've been any number of stories to tell in that time frame.  As for the character of Duncan, and the television series, all they really had to do was set the show sometime before 1985, when the first film took place.  Sure, it would've been a little more expensive, but it would've been worth it, and would've shown more respect to the source material.
Now that that's said, I must say that despite all of this, I found Highlander to be better than expected.  I expected it to be awful, and was pleasantly surprised.  That's not to say it didn't have problems, but buried between them were some sparks of genius.  I particularly found the sub-plot involving Duncan and Kate to be interesting, and original.  Unfortunately, I thought the villian was too overplayed and over-the-top, the characterization of Connor off-the-mark, and the disregard for the rules of "the game" disappointing (if even the vile Kurgan would pay heed to the rules, wouldn't the others?  Sure, it may sound a little unrealistic, but...)
The second disc, with a rough cut of the film, is an exercise in bad editing.  Everything I enjoyed about the DVD cut is missing from this version (though there were 2 things in the rough cut that I thought should have made it to the final).  Also, I thought the music in the final cut was great, but there was some even more exceptional music in the rough cut -- too bad they don't tell you who wrote it!
One other thing I forgot to mention: this film accomplishes a feat thought impossible: not only does it contradict the original film, but ALL OF THE SEQUELS and THE TELEVISION SHOW ITSELF.  But if you ignore all of that, it's really not all that bad.