The Good: It is everything the first was-it is still great! It's still a must-see movie for any Harry Potter fan. It may not have the suspense and the gripping scenes Rowling's book has but it's still a fantastic feature! Chris Columbus once again does a wonderful job on the movie. He keeps the Harry Potter 'magic' alive. He has created something that in the near future will be a classic. The characters, the plot, the inventions, and the suspense are all wonderful! Emma Watson once again plays her role to the best of her ability. She is perfect for the role of Hermione! The movie certainly has more than it's share of charm; charming characters, the magical 'charm', and the sheer image of Rowling's peculiar inventions. The film's special effects and the acting will impress you. This sequel to 2001's 'movie of the year' is scarier, longer, more suspenseful, and more interesting than the first. But you obviously need to know the story of the first book (movie) to understand and enjoy this installment. The late Richard Harris (Dumbeldore) is first a surprise then an immeasurable relief--and fated to be the proudest legacy of the movie that is a beautifully crafted dark fable. In fact this installment is something you would enjoy even if you haven't read the books! The wacky inventions will impress you (as I mentioned before). Another thing that I was impressed by was the enigmatically stunning phoenix (a Greek mythical bird that burns into flames). This feature has tons of new things; New characters, extra school lessons, new creatures, and new inventions! Overall it's an excellent installment!
  The story revolves around Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) who has not had a fine summer. Not only has he had to put up with his haughty Aunt Petunia (Fiona Shaw) and Uncle Vernon Dursley (Griffith) and their fear of his magical abilities, but also it seems as if Harry's best friends Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) and Hermione Granger (Emma Watson) have forgotten him - as they haven't responded to a single one of his letters. Then, unexpectedly and strangely, house-elf Dobby emerges in Harry's bedroom and warns of great danger if the aspiring wizard should attempt to return to Hogwarts. Dobby than tries to prevent the wizard from attending his 2nd year at Hogwarts. Although they faced a dangerous mishap at Platform 9 and 3 quarters, the worst was yet to come. The news of the flying car (that Harry and Ron rode) had reached Snape. But basically (Later) the 3 youngsters continue their adventures this time trying to find out about the deadly 'chamber of secrets'. Watch them unravel the haunting mystery at Hogwarts!
Bad: There isn't really anything 'bad' about Harry Potter. Gilderoy Lockhart however, was very annoying. Snape was as usual the mean, cruel, hateful, and despising teacher at Hogwarts. But if you think about it, that's the way Rowling has made them... so I guess there's no 'bad' in the movie!
Ugly: In only a word... "snakes". Creepy, crawling, slithering, slimy, ugly reptiles! However 'snake-lovers' (like the majority of the people I went with) would enjoy the 'snake scenes'. 
  Harry Potter is a creative work of art! Overall rating: A+