GOODFELLAS might be the most uncompromisingly honest movie ever made. This film can also be described as an extremely entertaining criminology class. Based on Nicholas Pileggi's biography of Henry Hill, WISEGUY, it's the first feature film that really delved into the everyday routine of life in the Mafia, showing how it operates as a world unto itself with its own customs, rules and enforcement mechanisms. So many of the movie's details strike exactly the correct note, right down to the food these guys cooked and ate. You could base an Italian cookbook on the screenplay. 
Collaborating with Pileggi on the script, Martin Scorcese trenchantly brings out the mindset that drives organized crime. In voiceover narration, Hill (played by Ray Liotta) lays out why the Mafia was such an attractive "career option" for guys like him. "To me, being a gangster was better than being president of the United States....It meant being somebody in a neighborhood full of nobodies....To live another way was nuts. Those goody-good people who worked ... jobs for bum paychecks and took the subway to work and worried about their bills were suckers. ..." Henry Hill is no hero. In fact, he raised sociopathology to an art form. (The book WISEGUY goes into much greater detail about Hill's "activities." It's unbelievable what he got away with.) But Scorcese does a magnificent and sometimes hilarious job in making us understand why Henry and his cronies do what they do.
The acting is something to behold. Liotta has Henry pegged. It might seem strange to see Robert DeNiro play an Irishman like Jimmy "the Gent" Conway (true name Jimmy "the Gent" Burke). But of course this is DeNiro; there's no role he can't play. Lorraine Bracco, future SOPRANOS star, was justly nominated for an Academy Award as Henry's wife. Joe Pesci steals every scene he's in as Henry's smart aleck, ultra-violent partner Tommy. Paul Sorvino is in the role he was born to play as Henry's fatherly crime boss. Another fun thing, in retrospect, is spotting other future SOPRANOS stars besides Bracco. A young Michael Imperioli plays a mafia gofer who pays the price for disrespecting Joe Pesci's character. The actress who plays Tony Soprano's mother-in-law also plays Henry Hill's mother-in-law. We also see Tony Sirico (Paulie Walnuts) in the background in a couple of scenes early in the film.
Scorcese pulls out all of his directorial techniques to extraordinary effect. What does he have to do to finally win the Best Director Academy Award? As always, he knows exactly how to use period music to enhance a scene without exploiting it or pandering to the audience. It's a pleasant surprise, for example, to hear George Harrison's "What Is Life" in that hectic sequence late in the film as Henry's world implodes around him. 
GOODFELLAS is also fascinating in that it chronicles the beginning of the end of the Italian mob's heyday. Henry Hill (his father was Irish) was one of the first people to rat out his friends in the organization, but he would not be the last. Hill left the federal witness protection program in the mid-1990s, several years after this movie was made.