Clerks II takes place 10 years after the events from the first movie. After the Quickstop is burned to the ground, Dante and Randal now work at the fast food restaurant Mooby's. Aside from that not much has changed, Randal is as insensitive as ever and offends people on a regular basis. Even his best friend Dante is speechless sometimes hearing Randals statements. Dante himself is in the lucky position to have a new girlfriend with whom he wants to move to florida. He sees his big chance to finally make something out of his life, allthoug he can't shake a somewhat bad feeling about it.

Brian O'Halloran and Jeff Anderson both act quite well, however Anderson's part is the cooler one, so he manages to stand out a little higher. At the same time, it is Anderson who is responsible for the moral speech towards the end of the movie. So Anderson finds himself in the difficult position where on the one hand he has to deliver this somewhat insensitive, offensive guy who on the other hand finds the right choice of words at the right time. This is close to contradictory, but Anderson manages to make the best of it. It's also nice to see, that unlike Dante Randal has come to terms with what he is, much like in the first movie.

The movie gives the fans at least partially what they could expect. Randal and Dante discuss movies, mostly Star Wars and Lord of The Rings. Randal gives a great sum-up about the Ring-trilogy. They discuss sex, mock customers and complain about their lives.

Unlike the first movie Clerks II is coulored and you can clearly see the bigger budget. More Locations, more spectacularly camera movements, gueststars. That somehow, however, leads to a movie lacking the charme of the original.

The mainplot is a lovestory which is far more dull and predictable than we know from Kevin Smith. As soon as you met both girls in Dantes life you immediately know where the story is going. What about Dante's inner conflict from the first movie? Here the story is clear right from the beginning, even Dante knows it, he only needs the courage to admit it. Therefore the plot is incapable of keeping the audience entertained. This must done through other ideas, sadly this is where Kevin Smith failed.

There is a scene that almost lasts the entire finale where a semi-attractive middle aged man first strips to reveal some kind of SM-Outfit, then sucks off a horse before he finally starts penetrating the animal from behind, meanwhile the entire clique is watching with popcorn and coke and a 19-year old is even masturbating. Sorry, Smith, what's your problem? Since when did "Jackass" become you direct competition? It might have worked as a short gag, but this way, where the only thing missing on the way to fully grown animal porn is a close-up of the animals penis, it's a questinonable idea at best.
Not quite as questionable, but also misplaced is the muscial show in the middle of the movie. The car-scooter sequenze doesn't seem to serve the plot either.

Also, Mr. Smith should really stop getting his wife into his movies. She seems misplaced. You could already see that in "Jay and Silent Bob strike back". If Smith loves her, that's fine. but he can't just force her into movies. It clearly wasn't Shannon Elizabeth as Justice who didn't fit in the girls combo. In Clerks II she seems equally misplaced.

The obligatorily appearances of Ben Affleck and Jason Lee however are fun, though the question why they both had to have those mustaches might remain unanswered.

We also get to see Jay and Silent Bob though their on screen time is significantly shorter than in Dogma or Mallrats. It's also them who keep even the cheesiest scenes funny, which ultimately might be the only reason they were put in the movie in the first place.

Clerks II is hard to rate. The movie offers some cool onliners, the weakest mainplot from all the Kevin Smith movies so far (including Jay and Silent Bo strike back!) and some ideas that really put the makers sanity into question. Anyway, I missed the charme and simpleness of the first movie. Cool guys with cool statements. Clerks II is too hollywood, all that Kevin Smith managed to avoid until then and those parts that aren't hollywood are edgy or outright repulsive. Those who liked the previous movies should definitley check this one out, too, but I'd say wait til it's a little cheaper. I surely wouldn't spent [...] Euros on the DVD again.