"Passport to Pimlico," (1949) has long been considered a classic British comedy of the post World War II era.  A black and white Ealing film that weighs in at a quick 81 minutes, it is now available in a remastered version of highlights from that studio's near-mythic production.  Upon its release, the film was nominated for several rewards; there can be little doubt that it heavily influenced the later, better known Peter Sellers film <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00009MEKJ">The Mouse That Roared</a>.

The entertainment that was directed by Henry Cornelius concerns a close-knit East London neighborhood, then one of the poorest in the city that secedes from England.  A document that shows that Pimlico parish is, in fact part of the French duchy of Burgundy, is discovered at a local bomb site just after the end of World War II.  British authorities try to regain control by blockading Pimlico's perimeter; the newly minted Burgundians fight back.  The picture stars some of the biggest names in British comedy of the time: Cockney Stanley Holloway (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002HK9IDQ">My Fair Lady</a>) as shopkeeper Arthur Pemberton.  And  Margaret Rutherford (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001344YU4">The Belles of St. Trinian's (1954)</a>) as Professor Hatton Jones, a part that was originally written for a man, offered to several men, and then rewritten for her..  They are ably supported by a laundry list of other well-known comic players: Raymond Huntley, Sydney Tafler, Hermione Baddeley, Basil Radford and Michael Hordern.

In the picture's time, it was recognized that the isolation of Pimlico, and its support by the common people of London, was based on the Berlin Blockade of June 1948-May 1949.  Shirley's comment in the pub, "We'll fight them on the tramlines, we'll fight them in the local ..." was recognized as a take on Britain's wartime Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill's famous speech, "We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills..."  It was also understood that the placard we glance once, reading "Forget that Cripps feeling," refers to Stafford Cripps, then-Chancellor of the Exchequer.  Another speech of Shirley's, "We always were English and we always will be English and it's just because we ARE English that we're sticking up for our right to be Burgundians," is still frequently recognized as an indication of the way the English of the time, who had yet to lose their Empire, continued to see themselves as citizens of England, not Great Britain: that too came later.

In fact, in many quarters, the movie may be more esteemed for its social/ political smarts than its comedy.  It paints an extremely accurate picture of the English world at the time.  The summer of 1947 saw a record heat wave. A massive loan from the United States has had the unintended consequence - and how often do we see that--of crashing the British economy. The war has been over for two years, but there are still live bombs that need disarming, and the bomb damage is widely evident.  The population has had about all it can take, from Germany and its own bumbling government.  Everything that mattered was still controlled by ration coupons, expensive and difficult to impossible to get.  A young woman sees a dress she loves in the local dress shop; she can afford it too, but she can't have it, as she hasn't enough clothing coupons.

As to the comedy, well, seemed to us on a recent viewing, that Holloway and Rutherford, for all their comic genius, were wasted.  We didn't see that they had a whole lot of funny business.  Furthermore, the sound is muddy, and the scandalous lack of subtitles, a true exemplar of penny wise pound foolish thinking, meant that most of the dialog, no matter how witty it might have been, was wasted upon us.  The Cockney accents are likely to prove very difficult on this side of the pond, and I'm not sure that viewers on the other side will do much better.  Wish I could be more enthusiastic.