This set of DVDs is the best collection I have in my library. Altogether they beat any other set. Each DVD is a special edition DVD, not just a normal set. Each one has it's own documentary produced in 1999 which runs from 30 to 45 minutes. You hear very interesting interviews with cast and crew that are narrated mostly by Patrick MacNee of `Avenger' fame. Each one also has a special mini-documentary about some aspect of James Bond such as a biography of the first James Bond director, a feature on stunts of James Bond films, a section on Q branch, a section on the art/set director of a lot of the films and a section on the special effects. These run about 25 to 30 minutes. Each DVD comes with trailers, TV spots and even radio spots; not that interesting. The older films also contain some original featurettes. The DVDs' also come with picture galleries that contain some short but interesting production notes. Usually I find galleries boring, but these pictures are all very interesting because they aren't just traditional publicity photos, but behind-the-scenes shots. Alas, the one item missing here is deleted scenes. Some of the trailers and photo galleries hint at deleted scenes but none of the DVDs' have them. The only other item I didn't care for were the documentaries that were edited together and are moderated by some fellow from the Ian Fleming Foundation. First of all they have too many people on the documentary. They have comments from over a dozen cast and crew from each film. They often don't talk about the film you're watching but some aspect of Bond films or the movie industry in general. Although sometimes interesting, mostly verbose, the commentary is easier to listen to without a picture. I'd prefer comments that are directly related to the film you are watching. A lot of the comments are lifted from the documentaries, so this will be the second time you hear them. The commentary is a feature that I'll only listen to once. Overall this set is hands down the best of any collection I have. Each DVD by itself is good to average, but taken together this set is a must have in anyone's collection whether your like James Bond or not.