I host a "Classic Movie Night" once a week and invite friends of mine over to watch various influential, critically acclaimed, and/or "great" movies of yesterday.  With its 5 Academy Award nominations, 2 wins, and a Golden Globe for Best Picture, along with it being the first "Widescreen" movie ever released, this seemed a pretty good choice for Easter Weekend.

I remember picking this up from the local library as a child and being enthralled, completely convinced that it was an accurate representation of what 1st century Christians were going through.  Now I'm a little bit older, and a little bit wiser, and while the rest of my friends found the movie laughably enjoyable in a campy sort of way, I still feel the movie tugging at my heart in certain areas.

There are parts were Marcellus' descent into madness seems more like bad acting, but Burton still gets across the guilt and shame he feels at murdering an otherwise innocent man.  I love the fact that the movie did not attempt to depict Christ himself, (His face is kept just off-camera), as the story follows His effects on others rather than on Jesus himself.

I consider myself more of a "Classic Film Buff" than some of the other twenty-somethings that come over, so the over-the-top acting doesn't really strike me as peculiar.  If you are used to standard amount of over-acting in other similar films, (such as anything with Charlton Heston in it), then I don't think you will be bothered by it.

The religious motifs are not historically based, but are at their heart correct.  At one point, a wise old man Justus is telling Marcellus about a woman who was paralyzed, and whose sickness made her angry and bitter at everyone around her.  When Jesus came through the town, He healed many of their sick and lame.  Marcellus looks at the woman, who is still paralyzed, but now singing a joyful song of hope, he asks Justus, "Why didn't Jesus heal her?"  Justus responds, "He did."

It is for moments like that I can see the heart of The Robe, and it touches my own heart.  It might not be everyone's cup of tea, it might not even be all that great of a movie, but it is good enough for an enjoyable evening, and an inspiring story.