I watched some of this in the theaters when it came out. I was lucky i didn't have to pay for it since i worked there. Recently my mother gave this to my son for Christmas because she couldn't get rid of it. No one would take this movie from her for, even though she was trying to give it away for free.
So i sat with my son a few days ago watched the rest of it. My first impressions of the beginning of the movie were good, but not excellent. Well it went down hill from there. The characters kept talking about aliens taking fish...who could these aliens be? Of course the aliens are humans. So these 'evil' humans are taking these fish. Since we are taking the fish that they eat these animals are starving. When the movie gets to the end and they are dancing and singing, the camera pans out to get these wide shots of the dancing, but there doesn't seem to be a shortage of them. This is ok because by the time the movie ends some how real humans (not CGI) dance with the penguins and make things all better. Yes, that is right a dance solve the problem (sorry i ruined this crappy movie for you save your time).
My other problem with this movie is the singing. Have you ever watched a National Geographic special on emperor penguins. Well let me tell you they can't sing, they can't dance. Yes, I do understand that it's "cute" to watch these animals do this, but the over all story destroys this element that could have been fun. The main character of this movie is only able to dance, and because he can't sing he can't find a mate. That is a good story within it's self, but it falls flat on it's face.
Let's review the acting now. I love Nicole Kidman is a fantastic actress, but for some reason her voice through the whole move sounds like she is in a dream-like state.  Elijah Woods is interesting I thought he would end up in the Crack Of Doom at any minute. Robin Williams is the same as he was in Aladdin and every other movie he has been in: Loud, annoying, stupid, and the same yesterday, today and forever...he never changes his style (this includes all comedy's not dramas).
Waste your time go ahead, but I warned you. I would rather watch The Little Mermaid II than have to watch this piece of crap ever again. If I could have given this movie zero stars i would have. IT WAS THAT BAD. Don't forget we are all bad people and we destroy wildlife all the time. We live in America an we are the great evil of the world.
Hollywood thank you once again for making us look like bad people in a stupid movie.