I didn't expect great things from the Soderbergh remake of Solaris. Being an avid Andrei Tarkovsky fan, I was always of the firm belief that no remake could surpass the intensity and beauty of the original film, even with the much-lauded Steven Soderbergh / James Cameron(producer) partnership at the helm.
Psychologist Chris Kelvin is sent to a space station orbiting the planet Solaris, in order to investigate the strange happenings onboard. Upon arrival, he finds one of the crew dead from suicide, another isolated and unwelcoming, and the third appearing rather insane. Later, Kelvin realises that the planet is in fact sentient, being able to probe into its inhabitants' minds and recreate, in physical form, one's memories of people long lost to them. Soon he finds himself in the presence of his dead wife, who remembers events in their life together, but doesn't recall ever actually having those experiences. She is only part of the person she used to be, a manifested memory.
The film begins well enough but quickly descends into conceptual chaos. Where the original focused on the bounds of science and humanity, the remake is a simple-minded, if perplexing, love story. Where the original was thought provoking, heavy with desperate love and questions of conscience, the remake pretends to be all these things and then fails miserably with the ending, where everything is said instead of shown and stupid, redundant `twists' abound. It seems as though Soderbergh has been taking advice from Steven Spielberg who, as we all know, defines that a movie's not finished unless you tack on an extra half hour to ensure your sunshine and your puppies and your mandatory happily-ever-after.
Of course, the film is not completely without its merits. The directing is top-notch. The editing is pretty good in places. The score is great. The CG shots of Solaris are gorgeous. But that's all stuff on the surface. It's beauty without soul, the form of the original film with none of its substance. Tarkovsky would be rolling in his grave.
If you're after an intense action/romance blockbuster, wait for The Matrix sequels.
If you want a recent film with real substance, get The Hours instead.
If you are one of those annoying cinema-goers who always express your non sequitur views loudly at the expense of everybody else's abject exasperation, need to have a `deep' analysis of everything regardless of whether there really is any need, and like it when a film's themes are spelt out so that you can claim the insights as your own, then... by all means, get Solaris. Oh yeah, and those who like random, gratuitous shots of George Clooney's naked butt will not go away disappointed either.