I didn't know what to expect when I tuned in to Sorority Row on pay-per-view.  I wasn't expecting an oscar worthy triumph, yet I was hoping for a good suspense slasher such as in the "Scream" series.
What I found were film highlights that surprised me in a good way and some lows that were irritating and maddening.

The surprise?  Usually what is bad in a slasher flick?  The acting of course!  Actually, I was taken aback at the director, the script, and the lead actresses to blend a menagerie of  personalities into a believable group of stalked and terrorized sorority sisters.

*Spoilers if you don't want to read on*

Leah Pipes, who plays the witchy Jessica, made my jaw drop a couple of times during the movie with her dialogue and the dead-pan serious way in which she conveyed it.  She has great fun with the self-obsessive, downright cruel sorority "leader".  Margo Harshman, who plays Chugs, the beyond sexually promiscuous one, comes across with such a matter-of-fact I'm a tramp and I know it--whatever.  The scene where she toasts herself in the mirror and ridicules herself with a self-admitting this is what I am statement is both saddening but amusing.  Rumer Willis, who plays Ellie, covers the emotionally distraught one more than sufficiently.  My only fault with Rumer and it isn't so much her fault, perhaps the director, is that she goes through the entire movie near hysterics and at the end in the blink of an eye does an about face into "I'm a brave person now" seriousness.  It seemed very hollow, there should have been more of a cue in metamorphosis where the viewer could see the character of Ellie moving toward the change.

The other actresses did well too and the cameo performance by Carrie Fisher as the tough as nails house mother makes me want to purchase this movie.

  I also give credit for creativity-I never saw a tire iron made up like that into a weapon, yikes.  The beginning prank resulting in death was a bit stretched too long, but I'll give it an A for originality. The resuscitation scene was a little gross though, have to admit.

  The lows:

1)  WHY is it in most slasher movies that when there is a group of people trying to escape from a slasher, they DON'T run, no, they all go back into the house where the killer is and THEN they split up. Well, maybe if they do that, there's no story or movie. :))  Still, there has to be a different way.

2)  A very aggravating scene was where the biological sister of the sorority sister killed in the prank is wandering through the downstairs calling for her sister who may still be alive, but her calls were not emotional, desperate, or really full of anything.  She might as well have been calling out "I think it's going to rain today" or "I have some letters to put in the mailbox after class".
Aaarrrrgh!

3)  The ending, or so-called sequel hint of an ending. Enough said.

4)  I guess I'm more of a suspense fan. Like the "Scream" series, I like action-slasher films.  There's no chase scenes, only "oh now where are you killer" moments and then he's there and it's done. And it's too reminiscent of the "Black Christmas" movie for those of you who have seen it who can recall the house fire at the end of that movie.  Just because it's a sorority house doesn't mean it HAS to catch on fire!  In closing, the confrontation scenes really were just the heroine hitting the killer over the head and walking away, the heroine hitting the killer over the head AGAIN and walking away.  I just wish I had director skills for I believes an audience deserve something to "chew on", hold them in the moment, create suspense not just clobber-pause, clobber-pause, etc.

 All in all, I'm very surprised to be wanting to get this movie for the acting and not the script content.  To the actresses-way to go ladies!!

William