Rize by David LaChapelle has some great kids, and great inspiration but it doesn't fulfill its initial concept and direction.  The individual scenes with individual youth expressing their hopes, their direction away from gang violence, and their inner growth is inspiring.  And if any youth in the movie were to read this review, I want to say, I was impressed, and you gave me some uplift too.  I appreciated the youth having the courage to feel their feelings, and express them.

  I did not like the change of tone in the movie by various elements introduced into the later part of the movie.  It cheapened the growth shown in the beginning.  As one reviewer said, "When they began the "BattleZone" I totally lost my admiration for the director of this so called "documentary".... Why did they & Tommy the Clown turn this into a brutal contest?" In real life, Tommy the Clown held weekly contests between groups in his academy, and they were evidently not the "brutal contests" shown in the film.  In fact, there were 60 dance groups in the area by then, and not just the simplistic Clowns and Krumps shown in the movie.  How did 60 get reduced to two?  And why?

  Tommy the Clown and at least four of those he trained have gone onto greater things around the world, and the impression in the movie that Tommy the Clown was ruined is not so. Tommy the Clown has dance class for the L.A. school district, and has taught in many different schools and universities.

  And the movie has all these kids saying they could not leave their "home."  How true that is, I don't know, but it seems reasonable some did, especially those that made the inner growth to depart from gang life.

  Another reviewer says, "La Chapelle also repeats the old saw that the "cool" way to succeed is to be part of the entertainment industry. This is perhaps a highly-visible attitude amongst youngsters but it's a totally wasted opportunity to showcase a way of using dance as a way to rize in a more than simply metaphorical sense."  I totally agree that the movie unconsciously shows, but consciously misses the young people dancing as a way of "personal Growth."  The youth grow, but the movie seems to try to steer away from that awareness.

  Also, the focus on entirely unrelated movie clips of totally unrelated dances from unrelated African tribes, was disgusting.  So dark skinned people were putting on face paint in both scenes. That was the only resemblance.  Look at the African scenes closely, and you don't see Krump or Clown dancing. There are many different types of dance among many different types of tribal peoples. It seems to fit the definition of racist to just clump some of these random scenes with the youth in L.A.

  Then when the movie starts with such hope, we end with a young dancer being shot senselessly in a drive by shooting, and a scene with someone selling caskets... and some religious scenes.  Where are the youth?  Left standing while someone sings Amazing Grace.  The movie could have shown youth with a future, going places, Growing, but it didn't.  If I could give the youth five stars and the movie's later direction two stars, I would.  It was worth watching, once... but I would not give it as a gift.