Pollock traces the life of artist Jackson Pollock from 1941 until his death in 1956. It focuses particularly on the nine years that culminated in Pollock's lionization by Life Magazine as the leading figure of mid-century American art. A project of director/star Ed Harris that was years in the development, Pollock gives equal emphasis to the painter's professional achievements and his troubled personal life. It also highlights the role of Lee Krasner, a fellow modernist painter who became Pollock's lover and later his wife. Krasner, portrayed by Marcia Gay Hardin in an Academy Award-winning performance, effectively relegated her own promising career to the backseat in order to promote Pollock's work, take care of him, and protect him as much as possible from his own demons. 
Ed Harris has always been one of my favorite guys to watch on the big screen. In a long line of films - including Knightriders, Apollo 13, The Abyss, The Truman Show, and The Right Stuff - the common denominator in Harris's performances has been a kind of surface placidity that can give way suddenly to explosive emotion. That quality fits like a glove on the character of Jackson Pollock, a painfully shy alcoholic given to fits of towering rage. Occasionally, in embodying the extremes of the artist's personality, Harris seems to miss the more delicate shadings in the middle. Nevertheless, it's a mesmerizing performance, the perfect complement to Hardin's loyal, longsuffering Krasner. 
An extraordinary level of craftsmanship is evident in nearly every aspect of this film. Harris went to great lengths to learn enough of Pollock's celebrated painting style to be able to mimic it with absolute confidence. Some of the most enjoyable moments in the movie are those in which the artist simply works, attacking the canvas with big, looping ribbons and fat dollops of paint. Even the music score that underlies these scenes of triumphant activity is perfect - intricate and understated, as if it didn't want to disturb the painter in the moment of inspiration. Minute attention to period detail and set design impeccably evoke post-World War II America, and the film somehow captures the vigorous optimism of the American art scene that is reflected in the flowering of Abstract Expressionism. 
Each scene is a small gem, cut with seeming artlessness. In one sequence, Pollock has just traded one of his paintings to a grocery store owner for a case of beer; and now, already a sheet or two to the wind, he's bicycling home with the wooden crate full of bottles perched perilously on the handlebars of his bike. After managing to stay upright for some distance, he pulls a bottle from the case, somehow knocks the top off it, removes the cigarette from his mouth and tries to take a swig from the bottle - all of which he impossibly pulls off until a passing car distracts him and the whole thing comes crashing down. In someone else's movie the scene would be a throwaway, some humorous filler to round out the weightier stuff; but here it's an exquisite miniature of everything that's miraculously right and everything that's tragically wrong with the protagonist. Nothing in this film is thrown away. 
Pollock isn't always an easy movie to watch. It's certainly not a panegyric to the artist who, while unquestionably brilliant, was also an abusive, self-absorbed drunk. It is, however, an inspiring paean to the redemptive power of creative endeavor. As much as you might scorn the painter for his loutish behavior with Krasner and others, as soon as he picks up the paintbrush and hurls himself into his work, he's got you. In 1949, Life posed the rhetorical question of whether Jackson Pollock was the greatest American artist of his day. That's a question that is probably as difficult to answer today as it was then. But it seems certain that Pollock is the greatest film about any American artist of any era.