I feel somewhere in between of giving this film 2 or 3 stars. It's a commendable experiment, a very original movie, and for that I would give it 3 stars. But for all of that, it is ultimately a movie I didn't enjoy much. So that's why I gave it 2 stars. Read on for further thoughts...
First, the animation. It's amazing. It's interesting to see how it changes from scene to scene, giving it different moods for different characters. The extreme distortions in one, for example, are very engaging. Yet I have a little but. The truth is the different parts (backgrounds, characters, objects) bounce around a little bit throughout the whole film. This is certainly interesting and goes well with what the movie is trying to convey, but I can't help getting a little bit dizzy about it all, and I think it would have been much better if this 'bounziness' (for lack of a better word) would have been used sporadically. That would have been much more effective. The same goes, for example, for the extreme distortions previously mentioned. They are repeated throughout a long dialogue where all we see is that face being contorted and distorted over and over again. But despite all the minor complaints, animation is excelent, and will have you glued into the screen for some time.
Then, the plot or, better said, the dialogues. The idea of the movie was promising, and I really wanted to like this movie. But the fact that it has no plot whatsoever puts the whole of the importance on the dialogues. And the truth is that some really succeed in making you think, whilst most are simply... boring. They start repeating themselves and going off to places that don't make any sense at all (unless you're high, I guess). It's just so many 'profound' reflections that don't actually have any meaning, any substance behind them. There's mainly questions asked in this movie. Don't expect any anwers. And although I think that could be a good thing, after the first 30 minutes, it all gets boring and repetitive. And it goes on way too long after that. The other thing I didn't really like was the 'plot developments'. They were waaaaay too predictable. Like when Wiggins is told 'You can tell you're in a dream when you try to switch off a light and the light stays on'. I expected this would occur sometime later in the movie. It would have a bit of expectation. But it happens right after they finish speaking. One way or another, I figured they would show us this whole film was a dream, but I though it would have been interesting to give some suspense to this, or to give the feeling that maybe some of it was dream while some might have been reality. The ending was very predictable as well. When I saw him starting to fly off and reach for the car again (and because of the time I knew the end was near), I automatically knew he would fly off and the movie would end.
The music, however, is something entirely different. Glover Gill composed a poignant and engaging score. The tango music fits perfectly the film and the questioning it's trying to get through, and I thought the music scenes were some of the best parts of the movie itself (especially the one in the Ritz in Austin, where they are dancing tango, towards the end).
In the end, Waking Life is a worthy experiment, but the end result is not as good as I would've liked it to be. I think this could have worked much better as a short, but I guess it wouldn't have had so much attention and success. The animation and music are top-notch, but the film becomes quite boring after the first half-hour, except for a few interesting dialogues.