Look out, step aside!  Minority opinion coming through!

On the '90's kids' game show "Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego?", there was a quickfire round called "The Chase" announced by fedora-clad house band Rockapella grabbing whatever props they found out back and running across the stage.  It didn't matter what there was going on  -  usually, there WAS nothing coherent going on  -  just that there was commotion in a shared direction.

"The 39 Steps" is the clear predecessor to "The Chase."  We escape a pursuit on a railcar, only to cut to a chase through a waterfall.  We get out of a waterfall; he's off through the moors.  We do get a '30's chopper (well, autogyro) chase, so that's something, I guess.  The movie never really stops and lets it all simmer, though; the plot doesn't build or twist  -  it just continues.  The lead's sent to a far-flung Scottish town with one cryptic clue  -  find the 39 steps  -  but no candidates for or information on those blasted steps arrives, so the bulk of the movie is one long Keystone Kops sequence with no clear goals in mind.

(Please don't comment to lecture me on the nature of the MacGuffin.  The device doesn't prohibit tension-escalating tactics in the chase itself  -  new information, changes in allegiances, junctures where the lead has to stop and desperately puzzle things out.  This cupboard is bare.)

We never really get a handle on the protagonist, either.  He's good in these situations, but almost too good  -  always instantly, nigh-painlessly ready with the perfect lie or escape.  (It is, though, entertaining to see him struggle successfully through an impromptu speech without any information on the guest of honor, the occasion, or his assumed identity as speaker.)  While actor Robert Donat is a suave presence, for the character, there doesn't seem to be a there there; he just acts as the plot requires at any given moment.  Also, some empty-headed ninny becomes important in the final act for utterly no reason that to supplant attempts at tension with a lame and totally extraneous romantic subplot.  The love interest's insufferability makes the protag's bullying of her no more welcome or comfortable, though.

We're left with a series of memorable images: a sudden, horrific burst into Donat's bedroom at night, and the subsequent telephone call, where the lead can see the voice on the other end of the line through his window.  The moors part of the chase, shot with the camera angled upward, so both hunters and quarry are starkly framed against a moving sky.  The simple yet brilliant action at the climax that prompts the end reveal.  Or the scared, beaten farmer's wife who takes a bit of pitiful cheer in lending the lead assistance  -  if only she had been the one manacled to him in the final act.

Look, obviously, I'm going against some pretty formidable grain in not being impressed by this movie  -  Criterion, for one.  Wait, didn't they include Michael Bay's "Armageddon" in their lineup a few years ago?  Heck with 'em.  In the meanwhile: yes, it's an early glimpse into the themes Hitchcock would revisit with much more success later in his career, but taken on its own narrative success, it's no "The Lady Vanishes."