The "Based on a True Story" hook of PUNCTURE wears its welcome not too long after the first act, but it's a powerful punch of a first act. In essence, this is the tale of the small Houston personal injury law firm Danzinger and Weiss who, on behalf of a nurse dying of AIDS from an accidental needle stick, take on Big Medical and their vast monopoly over the products they produce. It's a pretty predictable tale all around from anyone who's seen pretty much any legal drama ever. The characters are pretty stock as well as the plot. We have longtime character actor Marshall Bell (from just about every film you've seen since the mid-80's) as the grizzled, ornery designer of the live-saving safety needles; Brett Cullen (most recently seen on PERSON OF INTEREST) as the slick-as-a-snake big-time defense attorney; Mark Kassen (the film's co-director, with his brother Adam) as Paul Danzinger, the responsible, practical and harried partner; Vinessa Shaw (perhaps best known for her role as "Domino" in Kubrick's EYES WIDE SHUT) as the dying nurse that kickstarts the film's tale and Michael Biehn as the shadowy and mysterious man that seems to be pursuing the protagonists, who we don't know is friend or foe. Doesn't sound very original, does it?

That's until you factor in Chris Evans as Mike Weiss, the other half of the firm. Weiss is a pretty serious drug addict as we see very early on in the film. In a dynamic introduction to his character, he's been on a bender of cocaine in a dumpy motel room and is preparing questions for a witness and practices on another user. As we also see early on, Weiss has a very unusual lifestyle (he keeps an alligator in a wading pool; he drinks health-nut juices like wheat grass while constantly abusing his body with cocaine, an assortment of pills, heroin, etc.) and is rapidly heading for a divorce presumably due to his constant affairs and his rampant drug use. But when he meets Shaw's character and sees what is going on in the medical supply industry, it becomes less about the kind of ambulance-chasing law they've been doing and more about starting something on a possibly global scale. This, of course, awakens something perhaps long dormant within him about what being a lawyer is really about.

Evans, despite his more recent star-turns as Captain America, is a consumate actor who really gives Weiss a sense of perpetual mania; when he's in motion, he is almost hyperkinetic, but when he crashes, he crashes hard. There's rarely a moment in the film where his character hits a false note, and the story is infinitely more interesting when he's on screen. As charming and energetic as Evans is, he shows a deeply vulnerable side that he rarely gets a chance to show when he isn't busy commanding superheroes.

The film does a commendable yet all-too-predictable job of showing how hard it is for a small law firm to take on a large cabal of evil corporations and their machinations and influence over other businesses, the government, and perhaps even life itself as the film's climax is met with echoes of the great Meryl Streep film SILKWOOD. All of the performances, while rote, are effective with the exception of Mark Kassen, who just seems a little out of his depth here. The film is directed with some style but the film doesn't want to take too many risks by making Weiss out to be a bad guy, or to explore the darker sides of his life in too much depth, which is sad because the film is almost clone-like in its ERIN BROCKOVICH construction and it could benefit by bringing something much more unusual to the table that really sets it apart.

Aside from Evans' performance, PUNCTURE is a take-it-or-leave-it legal drama that has moments that stay with you, but unfortunately, they're too few and far between.