I'm not going to spoil this movie for you  but I will reveal a number of things about the movie that form it and why I didn't enjoy it at all.  I was actually angry at the film after it was over because I felt the film preached to the audience about it's topic and ended in an artificial way that couldn't even give that gleeful feeling of wish fulfillment for do-gooders.
  That's the first thing about this movie that anyone would want to know. It's a movie about doing charitable things for others although to what length the movie keeps us in question about until the very end.  It does this with a non-linear structure that's not necessarily storytelling in the nature of Tarantino, but more in line with Christopher Nolan's early films.  The pieces are kept enigmatic not because the story is more exciting that way, but because mystery is the only way anyone would bear sitting through a film this lukewarm (my opinion). Will Smith plays someone who gradually reveals himself to be an IRS agent who has questionable methods at best. He comes into contact with A blind vegan meat salesman, a woman with a bad heart problem,  an elderly home manager and an abused woman.  In each case, he proceeds in a way that would lead you to believe he's either a disturbed IRS agent or....something else.  He does some terrible things to a few of these people which spurs the action along and is actually the only thing about this film that made me interested in it.  There's a decent love scene for Smith in this film with Rosario Dawson and their love angle is OK, but it really seems out of place here since I knew all along that the film wasn't about their relationship and it would only be a subplot.
  That being the case I felt the entire film was treated like a subplot in the writing phase on to the production and that's why none of the drama, or romance played very well.  With this problem, the need to keep the resolution and meaning of the story mysterious throughout is paramount since none of the characters, or storylines will be delved into very deeply which is bizarre considering the film is over 2 hours long.  The object of this movie structurally is to keep the audience guessing and wondering why things are happening and also where it's going.  I'm not a person who always has to know what's going on in a film to enjoy it, non-linear storytelling is something I find enjoyable,  but this film uses this as a device because the story is just too preposterous for its own good.
  Toward the end, I was putting up with the film but my patience was waning since the more the story revealed itself, the more I disliked it and realized the ending wouldn't feel in line with the rest of the film...and in my opinion it didn't.  Fans of the film may feel that it's humane and commendable, however the film seemed to me to be opportunistic and sensational beyond reason.  For these reasons it was impossible for me to suspend disbelief and swallow the extremely lame ending.  For me, the only way the ending could work would be if the motivations of the main character had justifiable reason, and they don't.  I'm not going to ruin it for all of you who haven't seen the film, but I don't buy Smith's guilt throughout the movie and especially at the end.  An accident is one thing, but to remedy any calmatous action with an intentional one of this magnitude is unethical and I don't buy it, or the denoument (let-down at the end).