Before I became a christian, this movie was like my mantra of life. Im not kidding, this movie was that important to me at age 14/15 back in 1985. However, now that I am 32 and it's no longer the 80's, it's the year 2004, I'll say some stuff about this film.
This movie depicts a story of kids in the LA area in the early 80's, who due to family problems end up running away and becoming punks. These characters are "rescued" in different ways by a group of punk kids called "TR"-"the rejected"..they live in a house in the middle of an abandoned suburban neighborhood "out by the 605" freeway in Downey, CA (which is actually a predominantly latino community in real life)..these kids are punks with spiked hair, leather jackets, ripped army surplus clothes and run down cars with the names of punk bands spray painted on them...in other words, they dont look like others. They're opposed by local "redneck" type adults who seem to have it out for the TR kids, until a showdown..in between are various concert performances from 80's LA punk bands DI, the Vandals, and tsol...a very young Flea from the Red Hot Chili Peppers is in the movie as Razzle, a kid who shoots cockroaches with his slingshot and loves his pet rat. Also in the movie is Chris Petersen as Jack, one of the main characters, and an actor who's only other role was a small part in Oliver Stone's Platoon
I will say that this film is not entirely realistic...it's a somewhat "punk rock romanticized" version of LA. Southern Cal in this movie is seen as this place where wild dogs run around like coyotes and people sit by bonfires at night..as if LA in the early 80's was some sort of wild west frontier. Also, anyone in this movie who's not a punk rocker has no fashion whatsoever...all the non punks in the film wear random polo shirts and slacks from the discount section of Mervyn's. There's no breakdancers, pop lockers, mods, low riders, or any other style of person to compete with the punk lifestyle (styles that actually were around in real life in LA at the time)-it's either punks or t.v audience-looking "maniquins"...in a way, it's a teenager's view of the world, there's me and my group, and then there's everyone else.
However, Suburbia shows the value of being a friend to others, and shows the problems of prejudice and dysfunctional families, which is somewhat the moral of the film..It's not 100% realistic as some feel, but it will show Penelope Sheris's vision of 80's punk culture-- before it was turned into the "MTV Jackass/Blink 182" "corporate version" of punk that exists now