Jeff Sweet Get A Clue Clueless, a modern day version of the story Emma, by Jane Austen, was a film about a young girl growing up in an up class Beverly Hills high school.  Cher, Alicia Silverstone, was a girl that started off very immature and selfish.  During the film Cher also went from being very popular to not so popular.  At the end she was finally enlightened and grew up.  Cher was the average "miss popular" everyone has experienced in high school.  She was very self-conscious and worried what people thought of her.  She also hung out with only the cool kids at school.  An example of her selfishness was when she tried to hook up two of her teachers because she had gotten bad grades in one of their classes.  She believed if she hooked them up, they would become happy and give her a good grade.  The whole time she put on the front that she was really doing it for them, but in reality, she was doing it for herself.  She was also very mean to other kids that didn't meet her standards.  Tai, one of Cher's new friends had a crush on a skateboarder; he wasn't cool so Cher tried to hook Tai up with someone who was.  It turned out that the guy didn't even like Tai and was a real jerk while the skateboarder was very kind to her.  For the first part of the movie, Cher was the most popular girl in her School.  Tai, her other friend, was not.  She started of kind of like a scrub.  During the downfall of Cher's popularity, Tai was becoming more popular.  There was one specific scene when Tai was talking to a group of people about her near death experience at the mall and all the people there paid no attention to Cher.  Another thing that was upsetting Cher was her Ex-stepbrother, Josh, was spending a lot of time with Tai and Cher was getting very jealous.  At this point Cher finally realized something had to be done.  What she did was she grew up.  She figured out that she had a crush on Josh and needed to stop being selfish.  An example of not being selfish was when her high school had a day when they excepted donations to give to a third world country.  Cher donated everything from her clothes to her snow skis.  She also started being nice to everyone, not just her cool friends.  The final act that proved she really had matured was she went with Tai to watch that skateboarder in a contest.  After that, Tai and the Skater hooked up and Cher had no problem with it and was even happy for Tai.  Clueless was a very funny film that had a lesson behind it.  The lesson was not to judge people and be kind to everyone.  In the beginning of the movie Cher was a snotty selfish high school girl.  In the middle of the film she lost her popularity and realized she needed to change.  At the end, she finally grew up, stopped judging people, and got a "clue".