I'll start by saying I LOVE "The Great Raid". The movie itself is tense & exciting and the acting top notch. But I was terribly saddened to see MULTIPLE SCENES MISSING from the "Director's Cut" Blu-ray DVD release, scenes which were included in the standard DVD release of this film.

GONE is the scene where Margaret (Connie Nielsen) and Cora (Eugenia Yuan) are attempting to buy quinine from the Filipino underground, and are forced to flee for their lives when they realize they're being set up for a robbery.

GONE is the scene where Margaret is first accosted by the Kempetai officer at her apartment, and is slapped by the soldiers after trying to push past them to reenter her apartment.

GONE is the scene where the Rangers are under the bridge in the dark of night, and the Japanese truck stops so one of the soldiers can relieve himself.

GONE is the scene where Margaret attempts to buy passage on an evacuation truck in the jungle, and uses her watch to buy additional rides for the poor woman & daughter who didn't have enough money.

Can someone please explain to me why these scenes were cut? Granted, there was additional footage included in the Blu-ray edition that wasn't in the standard DVD release. But they were just extentions of scenes that were unimportant to the film, and certainly not worthy of the scenes that were sacrificed to make room for the extended scenes. But why sacrifice scenes at all? Isn't Blu-ray supposed to hold four times the data of a regular, standard DVD? Would it have killed those money-grubbing thieves in Corporate to have included both the new, extended scenes as well as the old scenes that were removed? Haven't we, the hard-working consumers who keep you guys in business, been cheated, robbed, gouged, and tricked enough into buying far inferior products in the name of Corporate greed?

It's funny..but if I walk out my front door right now and steal 20 bucks out of some poor slob's wallet, I can be arrested and charged with robbery and most likely thrown in jail. But if some rich jerk in a fancy suit with a Corporate logo robs me in the name of business (over & over again lol), he's rewarded with huge bonuses and grows fat off the cheated consumer's carcass.

You gotta love it!

PS. I'd send this crap of a Blu-ray back to Amazon for a refund if I thought I stood a fat chance of getting it. What a bunch of crap!