WOW! What a greatly entertaining classic this is! Director Michael Curtiz [CASABLANCA, 1942] really cranks it up a notch with this one. This wonderful, technicolor Western is exciting, funny, tragic, suspenseful, romantic...and a little bit of everything else, whew! It had a great hero [Errol Flynn as Wade Hatton], a great villain [Victor Jory], the great guy-you-love-to-hate [Bruce Cabot], the adorable little kid and, of course, Olivia. All about the unbridled, lawless cowtown of Dodge City, Kansas, and the attempts to restore it to the God-fearing, family town and bridge-to-the-West that it was meant to be. Great start as standard stagecoach races a modern locomotive to the town. Amazing scenes of bison strewn throughout the plains. The Sheriff-less town, however, is out of control with wanton violence, gambling and the retribution murder of cattlemen not willing to deal with criminal Cabot of KING KONG [1933] fame. Flynn is flanked by his frequent screen pals: the omnipresent Alan Hale as Rusty and Guinn Williams as Tex. Hale is funny and charming while the awesome Williams is a riot. They are so endearing that you'd just wish they were your pals. Flynn is a stalwart and courageous cattle agent who is asked to become town marshal but refuses. Things change dramatically, however, as another wanton shootout leads to the tragic death of a small boy. Time to put that badge on. This is an amazing film that included the forced sequestration of guns [remember UNFORGIVEN, 1992, and TOMBSTONE, 1993] and the intimidation and assassination of the town newspaper editor [remember THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALENCE, 1962] who is trying to support Flynn and expose Cabot and his gang. I could not help but have flashes of these three Westerns as I watched this film. The barroom brawl is a doozy, a classic production---you just gotta see it yourself. Jory, with that great sinister face, voice and demeanor is memorable. Cabot, who was the hero in the orig KING KONG, played the crooked, muderous cattleman and "owner" of Dodge City perturbingly well. Hey, even the Angel in IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE [1946], Henry Travers, is in this and Ward Bond is thrown in there somewhere, too. Overall, a splendid, wonderful, full-of-life Western classic that ,yet, has never received maximum honors from many pros. Overshdowed by STAGECOACH, GONE WITH THE WIND and THE WIZARD OF OZ---three iconic films---all in that incredible year of 1939 ? Still, I believe superior to STAGECOACH and a benchmark from which Westerns should be compared. I'm sure Mel Brooks would agree.