After waiting months for this amazing classic on Blu-ray, I received it in the mail yesterday, ripped it open, popped a HUGE bag of popcorn, ordered pizza, and threw it onto my (brand new!) Sony player to watch it with my wife and kids on my (brand new!) 46" Sony bigscreen. Couldn't wait, as the old DVD was substandard (but at least it had correct "formatting"). Let me explain, as that terminology might be incorrect.

First, over Saul Bass's titles, the horses seemed a bit "wide." Optical illusion? Tired eyes? But NO, the real horror hit when Gregory Peck got off of the stagecoach, and instead of looking his normal 6'3", HE APPEARED ABOUT 5'9" AND WITH ADDED POUNDS. My kids didn't notice it as they didn't know what to expect, but when I asked my wife, she squinted, then nodded slowly in disbelief, her mouth wide. Then she looked at me, slowly shaking her head.

Neither of us said more, but watched with jaws in our laps in mute horror as Greg was greeted by a 5'10" Charlton Heston, then was hugged by a 5'1" Carroll Baker and was introduced to a 4'6", chubby Jean Simmons. Something was clearly wrong when Chuck Conners and his brothers looked like a family of slightly oversized dwarfs. OFF! went the Blu-ray (and I had bought two copies, one to give as a Christmas gift)!  *SIGH*

ON! went the "old" DVD, just to make sure we weren't all hallucinating. If you're in my boat, try this: freeze Gregory Peck on Blu-ray after he leaves the stagecoach and walks around it (just before he checks his hat), when he's still in a full shot (head-to-toe). Then freeze the old DVD in the exact same place; you'll see right away that in the "old" DVD Greg looks his normal, lean, 6'3" self, whereas on the Blu-ray he looks less than imposing, like he'd come west on a doughnut truck rather than a stagecoach.

Some of you might remember how the same thing happened (12 or so years ago?) with an early version of a SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS DVD (non-Blu-Ray, of course). Both the brides and brothers looked like, instead of dancing, they'd been hibernating in the woods for several months with stores of Krispy Cremes and egg-nog. We purchasers of it never received satisfaction, other than the fact that about two years later a 2-disc set came out with the ("formatting?") correct.

Not sure who's to blame - there is now a 20th Century-Fox* Home Video logo that appears before the M-G-M lion logo - doubly ironic since the movie was made by neither, but by United Artists (of MAGNIFICENT SEVEN, VIKINGS and GREAT ESCAPE, etc., fame - wonder how THOSE Blu-Rays look - GULP!!)

*Rupert - is EVERYONE there at NewsCorp asleep on the bridge?

Guess this means that from now on whenever we buy a Blu-Ray we'd better rip it open and play it immediately, so that three years from now when we decide to run it, we're not stuck watching a cast from MunchkinLand, with no memory of where or how we bought it, unable by then to return or exchange it. So much for one more technological "advance." Yikes, guys...really?!!

Asked with love...of great films the way they "should" look...!

Sincerely,

-John Hanson, Studio City, CA;  email, if anyone is interested: studiosolutions101@gmail.com