While a world without tragedy may be desirable for us mortals, it is unfortunately not in our fate. Sometimes everyday people with normal lives are thrust into calamity. And sometimes that calamity is so devastating, our faith and happiness are quickly smeared into mud. If anyone can imagine their child dying in a gory accident, they still cannot imagine the internal agony that would follow. Now double that tragedy. Triple that tragedy, and you have the basis for a heart-gripping and believable tale. The character, Annie, understandably, cannot easily recover from her loss and withdraws psychologically. Her pain envelops her, and she commits suicide. As an artist, she was more prone to an emotional perception of her environment. While in good times her painting expressed her joy, it also controls the strokes of her brushes in bad times.  
The movie follows this dark course, but delivers a twist. It offers hope. While delivering the audience through a powerful action-filled experience into the afterlife, it is laced with an encryption of spiritual enlightenment. Tuning into Annie's mind, the liquid texture of an artist's palette becomes an underpainting to the visual renderings of the film. Chris's journey to rescue his soulmate Annie is a moving decline through graphic levels of hell that rival the images of the painter Bosch. As he struggles through fallen souls and wrecked landscapes, his appreciation of the gift of inner life becomes more apparent. He is finding himself, as he is searching for Annie.
Although most traditional religious thought is unclear in their written doctrines on suicide, leaving the outcome of suicide victims open to mortal pessimists, this story offers a brighter take. In this new view, the audience is able to transcend the judgements of theorists, and discover an afterlife that is as mutable as oil colors on a plate of glass. A beautiful rendition. Only in discovering who we are, and why we are where we are, are we finally able to attain the heavenlike destiny that God has set aside for us. 
Perhaps in the real afterlife we are not saturated with doctrination and separated by denomination. Hopefully we humans are finally able to set aside our prejudices of religious zealism and ignorance that so seperates us here. Wishfully, we will discover a world that is how God intented, a world like we can imagine in this visual movie.  Without revealing too much of the ending, believe that this story will lift you in the end, and give you dreams as vivid as rainbows. Enjoy.