The description gives the impression that this movie follows a 1000 year quest for eternal life, but the story is actually entirely about a researcher, who is torn apart by the dying/death of his wife, the story she (mostly) wrote, and a Buddhist wet dream.  The acting and scenery are very dramatic, and if there's a silver lining it's the absolutely superb acting.  I'm not going to lie, this movie had me moved to tears by the middle.  The presentation of someone losing perhaps the only person they love in life is emotionally devastating.  Unfortunately, the movie doesn't know when to stop and pulls out a very tired cliche (oops, just a moment too late!) not once but twice in two "major" parts of the film.  One of them is certainly major, the other is more abstract and only emotionally grating because of what it appears to mean to the main character (the researcher).

The point of the movie seems to be to convey to the audience that they should be OK with death, and the story, such as it is, follows the arc of a man becoming OK with death.  Unfortunately, it just suddenly happens.  The character has an epiphany that the audience is supposed to have already experienced.  That epiphany might be that the atoms you're made of will persist until the end of time, or it might be more metaphysical, in that you just need to give yourself over to the "great cycle", or find peace with the fact that you're going to die simply so that you can smile and go on living.  Take your pick, as none of these ideas (or any ideas at all) are fleshed out in the movie.

Minor gripe about the scripting.  While the acting is superb, and gut-wrenching, the character of the wife is a little one-dimensional, in that she's had an epiphany about death, and that's pretty much it.  Beyond that, her only significance is that she loves the main character and he loves her.  She never seems to realize that even though she's OK with dying, her husband isn't OK with her dying.  She's never presented as being sad for anyone that she's leaving behind, but instead seems set on telling everyone that she's OK with it, and POSSIBLY trying to get her husband to be OK with it, by constantly voicing how she's OK with it.  She seems to not realize that her death is going to be a VERY BAD THING to the people she leaves behind, and the movie just ignores that side of things, presuming perhaps that if everyone is OK with death that it will be less painful to lose our living, breathing friends and family forever, but being OK with your own eventual death and being OK with losing loved ones are two entirely different things.

On the more despicable side of things, in the wife's story there exists a Grand Inquisitor that holds that murdering people is freeing them from their "bodily prisons."  While I would not say the movie endorses murder or suicide, it definitely runs with the idea that dying is being reborn or freed in some manner.  Also, there is a scene of abject horror in the wife's story that I can only assume exists from an early draft of the film, and despite not really fitting with the tone of the film, it was shoehorned in anyway because the writers couldn't resist ramming it down the audience's throat that you're going to die and plants are going to eat you.

Anyone watching this film hoping for a "sci-fi" will likely be disappointed.  The future is a bubble in a rotoscope kaleidoscope nebula, flying toward a dying star.  When I say "bubble", I mean that literally, it's a bubble with a Eastern bent.  The main character lives in a bubble flying through space with a tree and nothing else, and nothing happens in the future beyond the man reaching the nebula and his epiphany.

On the whole, I cannot endorse this film except as a tear-jerker, and unfortunately the emotional steam ran out toward the end and I was just left staring, hoping for a moral to come out of the ending.

Good special effects (well, if you like very abstract effects), good production values (cinematography is pretty solid except for the awkward shoehorn scenes), good acting, bad writing, bad story concept.  Unfortunately, it's an emotional roller coaster that I feel I rode for no reason.