Sir William Golding's Classic book Lord of the Flies is being read  in classrooms across America. This timeless novel about a group of young boys  who have been plane wrecked on a deserted Island is in almost every high  schools curriculum and will be for many years to come. The book gives  excellent examples of human nature and government, While also showing the  simple mindedness of a group of young boys whom are lost on an island without  any grownup supervision.  There have been two movies made about the Novel Lord of the Flies,  One which was made in the 60's in black in white and one made in the early  90's. Although the earlier one kept very true to the book the newer one was  very far off, To a point where it was slightly humorous. The First big  difference that i saw between the book and the later movie was the arrival of  the boys on the Island. Though it did not really state in the book how they  came to be there you know for certain that they did not arrive on a raft, nor  with a very sick adult whom of which was their captain. Once you got to know  the boys in the movie you learned that they had all went to the same  military school, where as the boys in the novel did not seem to know each  other at all when they first got to the Island. In fact the only relationship  that had been developed before their arrival on the Island were the twins Sam  and Eric.  Another very big difference with the two was the language being used by  the boys in the movie. They used Curse words a lot where as the boys in the  book seemed far to innocent to do such a thing. Because of what I already  knew about the Characters I found this quit amusing. Finally I would like to  to talk about the boys them self. I mean who the hell was Tony that they  spoke about in the movie, not one persons name was tony in the book. The  descriptions that were given about each boy were not even similar to how they  show have looked. One of the first lines in the book was talking about the  Fair Boy Ralph, whom was very dark and did not look nearly as intimidating in  the movie.  I believe that the Director of this movie was trying to make a more recant  version of this timeless Classic. He made changes in his version to make it  seem more real and true to what would have happened only while doing this he  lost control of what the book was really about. Lord of the Flies like I said  was mainly about human nature and Government, the book was chalk full of  symbolism and the director of the movie very much took that away.