there goes the neighborehood... all over again! the third time's a charm as "married with children the complete third season" has even more twisted fun in boldly subverting tv's domestic nest, smashing taboos and stereotypes as this wildly popular, often controversial hit series breaks all the rules, dirtying up tv's prim proper landscape on its way to earning a place in pop-culture infamy. petty, backstabbing, and always at each other's throats- just the way we like'em- the bundys became true american icons during their original hit run, holding up a cracked mirror to our own lives, damaged goods and all.. includes new opening theme song

episodes include:
  disc 1
#1. HE THOUGHT HE COULD - when al finds a library book that is 31 years overdue, he decides to finally face the librarian who pegged him a loser.
#2. IM GOIN TO SWEATLAND _ peggy sees her idol, elvis, in the sweat stains on one of al's t-shirts and decides to make money off the image.
#3. POKE HIGH - while kelly tries to score with a high school fullback, al roots for the opposing team in hopes his old school record will remain intact.
#4. THE CAMPING SHOW - al and steve's vacation in the great outdoors is ruined by female hormones and man-eating animals.
#5. A DUMP OF MY OWN - al sets out to fulfill a dream when he begins construction on his very own bathroom.
#6. HER CUPS RUNNETH OVER - peggy is so miserable when her favorite bra is discontinued that al is forced to find a replacement.
#7. THE BALD AND THE BEAUTIFUL - al and steve seek the counsel of a hairless support group.

disc 2
#8. THE GYPSY CRIED - a gypsy fortunteller predicts disater for marcy and good fortune for al, steve and peggy.
#9. REQUIEM FOR A DEAD BARBER - when als long time barber passes on, he resigns himself to a future of beauty salon haircuts.
#10. EATIN' OUT - when the bundys receive a modest inheritance check, they decide to splurge and eat out at an elegant restaurant.
#11. MY MOM, THE MOM - peggy is the hit of kellys mother/daughter career day.
#12. CAN'T DANCE, DON'T ASK ME - kelly must join the tap dance club or be kicked out of school.
#13. A THREE JOB, NO INCOME FAMILY - when peggy gets a job selling cosmetics and brings home more money than al, he gets a second job to regain his self-respect.
#14. THE HARDER THEY FALL - steve is obsessed with the fear that an enraged driver may come looking for him.

disc 3
#15. THE HOUSE THAT PEG LOST - steve and marcy return from vacation shocked to find a big hole where their house used to be.
#16. MARRIED... WITH QUEEN - peggy and al attend the polk high school reunion where peggy is determined to win the title of reunion queen.
#17. MARRIED... WITH QUEEN: THE SEQUEL - at their reunion peggy vigorously campaigns for the title of reunion queen.
#18. THE DATELESS AMIGO - when bud finds it difficult to line up a date, he resorts to the next best thing a mannequin.
#19. THE COMPUTER SHOW - peggy brings the family closer to the poorhouse when she buys a home computer.
#20. LIFES A BEACH - when al decides the bundy clan needs to spend quality time together, they pack up and head for the beach.
#21. HERES LOOKIN AT YOU KID - when a neghborhood peeping tom has taken a peek at everyone on the block except peggy.
#22. INFAMOUS LOST EPISODE! ILL SEE YOU IN COURT - while staying overnight in a motel, peggy an al discover that their most intimate moments have been videotaped by the management.