Pin head is back. This story tells how the box was created and what pin head plans on doing with it. It spans three generations and tells the story of one families quest to shut pin head and his plans down for good.

The cons

I love the actor who portrays pin head Doug bradley he almost makes this picture worth watching alone. You finally get some back story on the cube and why it was created and how. You get informtion on what it's purpose really is in this film. The story line is some what intersting with 3 different generations of male family members being involved in creating the toy box and trying to stop pin heads plans. The picture has a few interesting kills in it and some gore as well for horror fans. You also have two other new cenobites that were some what interesting like the two who are joined together.

The cons.
 The new cenobites aren't as interesting as the ones in the first two film by a long shot. They look pretty generic to be honest and could have been characters from the borg in star trek the next generation. Doud bradley is awesome,but the rest of the cast leaves me wanting. It's like they picked people up at wallmart and asked if they wanted an acting job. The picture does have a few intersting kills,but the level of blood,gore violence and sexuality is toned way down from the first two films. I was kind of disapointed by that as this is the first hellraiser film I've watched in years besides the first two. Also the idea of setting parts of it in the future on a space ship doesn't work for me. It was only a small part of the film,but doesn't fit right in my opinion. Also the budget for this film must have been lower than the first two as the effects look much worse. One guys shooting laser beams at pin head in the end made me laugh. It looked worse that the effects on the original star trek tv show. Maybe their is another version with some special features on it,but the copy I purchased has very little. You don't get any directors commentary or any behind the scenes stuff at all. This would have been a nice thing to have as I usually enjoy watching those things. The only thing I got was some previews of other films.

All in alll a decent film,but it doesn't live up to the first two film at all. I can't suggest this to any one and I'm a big fan of the first two films. Also I ca't understand the high rating some of the fans here are giving this film. It doesn't deserve any more that two stars at best. This is worth a rental or maybe just watching it on youtube or something. I'm glad I didn't pay much for this weak film.