"The Counterfeiters" is a German historical-fiction film about Operation Bernhard, a secret operation conducted by the Nazi's during the latter years of World War II in which a team of concentration camp inmates counterfeit large sums of British money in order to fuel the Nazi war effort. The film follows the main character Solomon "Sally" Sorowitsch, a master counterfeiter, who is arrested by the Nazi's and eventually sent to the Sachsenhausen ("Saxon-house/place") concentration camp take part in Operation Bernhard. As essentially the prisoner-leader of the Operation, Sally must juggle the strict demands of his Nazi wardens with the determination of a few of his fellow prisoners' attempts to sabotage the Nazi war machine, as well as with the duty he owes to his fellow innocent prisoners to keep the Operation running smoothly and hence keep his mates alive. The result is a story engulfed in a sticky moral dilemma that ends (just in time) with the end of the war and the liberation of the concentration camp.

In my opinion "The Counterfeiters" is in between being a good film and a bad film. I thought that there were unnecessary scenes of sexuality and violence; and hence I thought that the film would have been essentially the same without these few scenes. For example, when Sally watches his friend Kolya get shot by a Nazi guard, we (the viewer) see Sally looking through a small window, then the film switches cameras and we see Kolya get shot through the head. Instead of this unnecessary five-second scene of disgusting violence whereby we see the bullet take a piece of flesh out of Kolya's head, I think that the camera should have stayed focused on Sally-looking-through-the-window since the result would still be the same: Kolya is brutally murdered. Instead, the camera switches to let the viewer watch the gruesome scene. Because of this (and several other similar scenes) I thought that "The Counterfeiters" was trying too hard to shock the viewer with violence that the viewer knows is simply un-real. Overall, the effect of this violence-saturation was to turn the film into something like a comic book or a wanna-be Schindler's List.

But I digress. I thought that the acting was merely OK as well. The main character seems to have only one facial expression throughout the film, and many of the other characters seem two-dimensional. Also, the soundtrack was strange: a mix of Latin American rhythms seemed to give the film a fake-ish feel. Also, I was somewhat morally confused when the main saboteur (Adolf Burger, played by August Diehl) is hailed as a hero by the concentration camp Jews after they had liberated the camp (after the Germans high-tailed): Burger (whose memoir, I learned from Wikipedia, served as the genesis of the screenplay), through his sabotage activities threatened the lives of the entire counterfeiting team. Perhaps he is shown as a hero because his sabotage slowed down the counterfeiting process, and hence hastened the end of the Third Reich, but I have trouble accepting this (heroism) because Burger had no idea that Sally had the power to prevent the sabotage (i.e. besides snitching on Burger)... But I digress again...

Broadly speaking, I think that we must take films like "The Counterfeiters" with a grain of salt, for this film is essentially a success story, while the Holocaust is most definitely not: it was, without a doubt, part of the worst series of events in modern history. While it may be human nature to look for and to find success stories and "heroes" in the history of the Holocaust, I think that often such stories serve to reduce the complexity of history, and far to often this is exactly what the casual movie-goer gets, which is to say, excitement and gratification.