Johhny Depp, who has always been known for choosing strange &amp; challenging roles, did something strange in 1999,2000. Over the course of a 12 month period, he starred in 3 films. Usually just the opposite is true.  The Astronauts Wife was totally forgettable, while Sleepy Hollow was  wonderful. The Ninth Gate falls somewhere in the middle. Trying to get back  his glory days of Rosemary's Baby, director Roman Polanski chose another  interesting, supernatural vehicle. I just felt that it lacked a lot of  things that kept it from being as brillant. One of these things,  regretably, was Depp's performance. Only a bit more animated than his  performance in the Astronaut's Wife, Depp sometimes seemed to be sleeping  through this role. He was much more effective in another of his "every  guy" role in the movie Nick of Time. Though the truth is,with this  film, he didn't have a heck of a lot more to work with. Polanski couldn't  seem to make up his mind whether the characters in this movie were supposed  to be cartoony or dramatic. He got an odd mix of the 2. Just listen to  lines like Depp's after he and the dead book owners wife have just finished  mking love ( i can't repeat them here)...but he delivers the line smirking  into the camera like something out of a campy spy movie. There's also the  annoying bit of Polanski not introducing the when &amp; where of any of his  scenes. Depp goes from NY to Portugal to Spain, and Polanski leaves the  viewer wondering just where the character is now, and sometimes how he got  there. Sometimes it feels like the viewer came in in the middle of the  picture, when they have been watching it from the start. However, the film  does hold the viewer's attention ( unlike the somewhat similar, apocolyptic  snoozer End of Days), despite its almost 2 &amp; 1/2 hour length. And some  of the performances are genuinely eerie, like that of Frank Langellas (  just listen to that voice on the phone!).But going for the anti-climactic,  artistic ending was a wrong move. It left me, oddly enough,feeling like I  was taken ( much like Corso's clientele in the movie). The picture was shot  nicely enough &amp; had some terrific music ( that included a bit that  almost sounded like the Jaws theme). I think that Polanski could have given  in and given the viewers a little bit more of a spectacular, Hollywood  ending ( and beleive me, I don't say that often!).