This documentary only rates 2 stars from me.  It is overly long (more than 2 1/2 hours).  There are a number of scenes that could have been trimmed down, as they were needlessly long.  Other interviews were repetitive.  The director should have completely deleted the scene with the pro-abortion band, a nearly naked lead singer with duct tape on her nipples. (gee, that was kind of alliterative, wasn't it?).

The pro-choice side of the debate had some intelligent and thoughtful things to say, but there were plenty of pro-choicers who also had very little logic in their arguments.  The pro-life interviews were nearly exclusively with wackos and unsympathetic personalities who came off as country bumpkins, fanatics or killers.

By the way, where was the balance in all of this?  This film explored the murders of several abortion doctors, and their killers, but left out the harassment and jail sentences and lawsuits brought against a number of well-known pro-lifers.  Nothing was mentioned of the Federal "FACE" laws that closed down the peaceful, if disruptive, sit-ins in front of abortion clinics.  Nothing was mentioned about the RICO laws that the abortion rights folks have sought to bring to bear against their opposition.  There were few too many interviews with the heads of national right to life groups, to get their measured opinions on abortion.

Instead, we got Alan Dershowitz' lame take from Fiddler on the Roof:  "You're right.  He's right.  You're all right"  We should expect more from his otherwise fine mind.

The most positive thing in this film is also its' most graphic imagery:  that of an abortion being performed, live and on camera.  And, what the abortion doctor did immediately after with the fetal remains:  carefully going through the mutilated body parts to make sure he got everything out of the mother's womb.  Disgusting.  But, that's show biz!

The final scene was of a 28 year old woman, seeking her 5th abortion.  You couldn't help but feel sorry for her, but come on!
How can you rescue this, pro-choicers?!  She wasn't seeking her abortions because of rape or incest.  She didn't have mutated embryos.  She was a pathetic, lost single woman who had made a string of bad choices.  And, again, she is seeking an abortion as a form of birth control.  Wow.  NARAL and Planned Parenthood will probably make a poster-hero of her.  She admitted to a history of depression.  There's a surprise.

There are some good, and perhaps great, documentaries out there on the Abortion divide.  This isn't one of them.

Try to keep your feet out of the "Lake of Fire."