US Title
Big Show (c) vs. John Cena
This match was surprisingly decent. It was a little slow, but did a good job of making both guys look good. There was only one really big problem with this match: a minute-long rest hold is a bit much for a 10 minute match. *3/4
World Tag Team Titles
Booker T & RVD (c) vs. Dudley Boyz vs. Cade & Jindrak vs. La Ressistance
Isn't this great? A match with no build and members of the HEAT crew on "the grandest stage". Match was a whole lot of nothing, but nothing un bearable or anything. *
Chris Jericho vs. Christian
Now, this is more like it. A pretty good match with both guys busting out some cool moves. Jericho isn't as good a brawler as he is with his normal style, but he worked pretty hard here and pulled off a pretty good match with Christian. ***
The Rock & Sock connection vs. Evolution
Throwing in Rock sort of killed all the good build, as he was only involved in this for 2 weeks while Foley and Orton had been feuding for months, but I guess in the end having Flair and Rock in to help Foley carry Batista and Orton was good. Match wasn't anything special, but Flair was really on here and anything Flair-Rock is absolute gold. **3/4
Interpromotional match
Sable & Torrie vs. Jackie & Stacy
Well... I can't really complain, as I didn't expect anything and they kept it short. Still.. if they were going to do something like this, they could have included celebrities like XIX, just to make it feel WM-like as apposed to something you can see on every RAW and SD. DUD
Cruiserweight Championship
Cruiserweight Open
No match up was actually given enough time to be good, but the whole thing was pretty fun as it was loaded with cool cruiser spots. **
Interpromotional match
Goldberg vs. Brock Lesnar
Special Ref: Steve Austin
This was pure crap and a really bad note for Lesnar to leave on. DUD
WWE Tag Team Titles
Rikishi & Scotty (c) vs. WGTT vs. APA vs. The Bashams
Unlike the RAW tag match, this did have one or two weeks of buld, but it is definitley not a WM-level match, as every one of these teams aside from WGTT should be on Velocity. The match was just like the RAW tag match, excpet a minute (or two) shorter. *
WWE Womens Championship
Hair vs. Title
Victoria (c) vs. Molly Holly
It was pretty good, but didn't last very long. *1/4
WWE Championship
Eddie Guerrero (c) vs. Kurt Angle
Easily the MOTN. Kurt was good, but Eddie was just excellent in this match. Great, lengthy match, with a good finish, fitting of Eddie's character. ****
Interpromotional match
Undertaker vs. Kane
This was pretty bad, but it got the point across (The dead man is back and ready to squash everyone in his path), and since I am a big Kane fan, I'll be generous. *1/4
World Heavyweight Championship
Triple H (c) vs. Chris Benoit vs. Shawn Michaels
This match was good, but terribly over-rated. It was a fun triple threat match and that is just about it. ***1/4
A very well put together video package closes the show.
Overall thoughts:
Well... there is a lot of crap on here, but Eddie-Kurt is great; the triple threat and Jericho-Christian are good, and the cruiser open is fun to watch. Plus, if you hate Goldberg or Brock, you might want to see them get booed out of the building. If you only buy a few WWE PPVs on VHS/ DVD, I wouldn't recommend this, but if you get most, then this is definitely something you should check out, if just for Eddie/ Kurt.
As a show this was good, but as a WM this was just ok. It's on a similar level as WM 2000 (which also featured a few good matches and a lot of crap), but it's crap compared to XIX or X-Seven.