Being a child from the eighties I can't help but keep relating to this movie over and over (I'm now ex-military and currently work in the airline industry). I saw this movie when I was a junior in high school, having watched other John Hughes' movies such as Breakfast Club. I always liked Hughes movies for being heartwarming and sort of guiding during my teenage years. I'm sure a lot of people my age will also agree. I had grown very fond of John Candy since I saw him on "Stripes" and absolutely loved Steve Martin's "Ruprick" in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. I knew that the public was headed out for one hilarious experience when these powerful comedians where casted together. Was I ever right, there are scenes in this movie that still cause me to start laughing just thinking about it. It's funny because I find myself travelling constantly through these cities and I can still see poor Neal Page racing Kevin Bacon for a cab in downtown Manhattan only to trip on Candy's trunk. I've been past the "Braidwood Inn" where Neal and Del shared "their pillows" together. This movie sure hits it with people that travel for a living, matter of fact it is a permanent addition to my "suitcase DVD collection". Obviously it is a John Hughes film and he finds a way to keep the movie humane and heartwarming even with the dozens and dozens of hilarious scenes. The "photoshop pause" ending focusing on the late John Candy's face as well as in Uncle Buck sure served as a sad premonition to his very early passing. Planes, Trains and Automobiles is not just an excellent timeless comedy but a legacy to the great work by this great actor.

John certainly had a way of portraying himself in his characters as he repeatedly mentioned that he refused to loose weight fearing it would affect the public's perception of his characters. I could never imagine someone like Del Griffith looking any other way.

There are a couple of interesting things worth mentioning about this movie:

1. On one of Neal's phone calls to his wife she is lying in bed watching TV. From hearing the TV you can tell she's watching the movie "She's having a baby", also from John Hughes and released AFTER Planes, Trains...was released to theaters.

2. Neal's house in the end of the movie is the exact same location used for Bill Murray's "Bed and Breakfast" stay in the movie "Groundhog Day", notice the building exterior and the shot down the street in both films.

3. The "Braidwood Inn" hotel is located actually in Braidwood, Illinois not Wichita.

4. On the final scene driving the burned car Neal and Del are supposed to be driving from St. Louis to Chicago, yet they are pulled over by a Wisconsin State Trooper (???)

Again, Planes, Trains and Automobiles is an excellent comedy which will have Hughes fans constantly travelling back in time and everybody else finding themselves a having a great hillarious day.