I had never watched Dark Angel during its short run on FOX. I'm a big Cameron fan, but mixed reviews and lack of interest on my part kept me from giving it a shot. I didn't even know the show had been cancelled when the first season popped up in stores on DVD. One thing I love about DVD is the chance to experience full seasons of TV shows in one big serving. I've become a Buffy/Angel addict, had the chance to collect all The X-Files (which I watched religiously since it first aired when I was a kid) and have also discovered great shows like Felicity, Six Feet Under, and The Shield. I've always been a huge movie buff but I've found that television done right can be much more satisfying than any film. Stories unfold like novels and characters develop in ways that films just can't match. Greg Berlanti's new show Everwood that's on the WB is a good example of this. Hands down, that show is superior to 90% of the garbage at theaters this year. Which brings me to Dark Angel.
 As an Amazon addict, I read countless reviews before deciding whether or not to buy movies and TV shows I haven't seen before. I'm fairly busy, I'm a writer/director and I run a production company in Los Angeles, and usually don't have the time to post my own thoughts. But I feel Dark Angel merits a post to hopefully get more folks to give this show a shot.
 After reading a ton of reviews on various DVD sites and here on Amazon, I purchased the set. Based on the comments online, all seeming to either love the show or loathe it, I really wasn't sure what to expect. The set arrived and it sat on my desk for a week or two before I even popped it in. Some free time came up and in a very short perod of time I watched the whole series, mostly late at night on my PC. Some albums, movies and TV shows come into your life at the right time and fill a void or make you feel a certain way. I don't know exactly what was going on but I found myself really moved and involved in this show. I got really emotionally involved in Max's journey to find her long lost siblings and in her relationship with Logan. The scenes where they share blood in particular are touching and original. If you like thought provoking sci-fi with Cameron's fingerprints stamped all over it, this show is for you. Its got action, drama, romance, humor and a decent dose of darkness to keep you enthralled. Jessica Alba, lovely and tough as Max, really shines. Michael Weatherly and John Savage are also terrific.
 The first season of Dark Angel builds to a nightmarish conclusion in the season finale that will have you screaming at the screen and wanting to rip your hair out because the second and last season isn't released until October. I've already pre-ordered my copy.
 The 6 disc DVD set contains all 22 episodes of the first season and a nice set of extras.  Commentaries on four episodes including the Pilot presentation are chock full of details about the production, hefty budget, special effects and Cameron's involvement as co-creator and writer.  Also included are four featurettes, auditon tapes, gag reel/bloopers, and a trailer for Cameron's Dark Angel video game. Highly recommended in my opinion.