I think that many people are surprised at this film and do not view it in its intent because they do not know the story behind it.  The film is actually a stage play and is therefore set up as one.  The actors performed the play onstage for several months before beginning shooting and therefore their portrayal of the characters is much like that of actors onstage.  The delivery of the lines is a little overexaggerated because the script is written that way.  The scenes are comprised of long chunks, not like films are made today.  With modern movies, there are cuts everywhere, usually not allowing many scenes to last longer than five minutes without cuts back and forth between character and giving more of an illusion of movement.  However, becuase this film is based on a stage play, it is shot very much like it has been staged in a theater, not cutting back and forth between the characters every ten seconds and giving more of a lingering view on the characters.  This is not to highlight physical movement, but to allow the viewer to absorb the main focus of the film:  the dialogue.  The key to understanding and enjoying the film is to listen closely to what is being said and the subtleties of the language.  
As far as film to screen transition, I believe the director did well, considering he was trying to preserve the feel of the film as a staged play.  It is executed very well, especially since it was shot in under twenty days and is an independent film.  I would agree that if I had not known that this had been a play before it was a film, I would be greatly confused.  It is clear that the purpose of the film was not to make a big motion picture based on the play, but to preserve the feeling and nuance of the play in a film version.  Knowing that this is the motivation behind the movie, I feel that people would be able to enjoy the film more and really allow themselves to think about the issues it raises, for that's what the purpose is; not to impress, but to inspire thinking.