Let me start by saying I loved the TV series. It was crass, it was racist, it was vulgar, it was violent, it was perfect. As long as you don't take it too seriously, the show is hilarious. Of course some people couldn't take a joke, and complained, and the series got canceled. Oh well. Three years was a pretty good run.

I'll start with the good. The voice acting is top-notch, just like it was for the series. Seth MacFarlane rounds out the usual cast of professional voice actors nicely. Not ALL of the jokes fall flat; some of them, like the ones about Israel and the Shabbat, are decently funny. The producers (the real ones, not the Jew Producer in the show) are Jewish, so they can get away with it.

However, the bad... well, the first thing you'll notice is that the animation doesn't look quite right. It was done in Flash by a different animation studio. Personally, I don't think it looks as good. It doesn't look all that bad, just different. Also, a lot of the facial expressions look more like a Ren and Stimpy cartoon than the original series. It makes it look like a fan film or an internet cartoon.

A lot of the jokes are stupid, or worse, just not funny. OK, we know Captain Hero likes to bang dead chicks. There were episodes in the series that showed that with a throwaway joke here and there. Those were funny. But dragging it out over the entire movie is stupid, and towards the end when she starts getting really decomposed it's just gross. Gross can be funny, but dragging it out way too long makes any humor fade away fast. Even a giant monster that craps in its own mouth COULD be funny, but they do absolutely nothing funny with it. So it comes off as stupid and forced. When they make fun of the DVD producers' commentary in the movie, it made me think that they actually would sound as dumb in the real commentary as they do in the phony commentary. They don't, but I can't help but wonder if that's what the writers' room sounded like at times (I don't know how to write out way out of this minor inconvenience. Let's see Foxxy topless just for the heck of it!)

Then there's the plot. The movie is only 70 or so minutes long, and barely anything happens. None of the characters really develop any (though I suppose that doesn't really matter, considering the source material - continuity was knowingly thrown to the wind in the series) except maybe the Jew Producer. Bad guys become good guys, a lesson is learned. Sort of. They sort of make a point by saying Drawn Together doesn't need a point. That's true, but they try to rip on South Park to do it, and that just straight up fails. South Park is, frankly, a lot better than Drawn Together was. When you outright insult another show, especially a successful show, you had better make sure you do it right or it'll just look like you're being petty and jealous. That's exactly how it looks here.

As much as I loved Drawn Together and would be happy to see the series be another one where good DVD sales brought it back, I can't recommend buying this. Buy the TV series DVDs instead. They're funnier, the animation is better, and the gross-out humor comes and goes in small, hilarious doses rather than stick around long enough to be truly vile.