OK. so we've got a crime drama with some easy cliches: assasin with preternatural skills, ordinary guy (cabbie) with dreams of a better life; a brief meeting with casual love interest that turns out to be a key element to the plot and lastly of course a shortening list of victims that provides the engine for everything else.

Usually, when you watch a 'Firstname Lastname' film the whole point is the branding and the quality of the film is inversely proportional to the amount of desperate product placement and insecure-film-director ego identification. The need of one person to grab the credit for the work of several hundred talented individuals renders the whole thing worthless.

After a build-up like that you might be expecting the 'Collateral' falls into one of two extremes: awesome or pitiful. More interestingly, it's neither. For those of you that enjoy the 'Michael Mann' flavour, this is an opportunity to experience it in a new mix. No, it's not 'Miami Vice' with 20 years of additional designer stubble. Nor is it 'Heat' re-visited - although that would not necessarily have been a bad thing. One of the hallmarks of previous Mann productions is the creation of atmosphere using well matched musical accompaniment. The MTV generation  in particular will remember how Miami Vice epitomised the fashion for a storyline crafted seemingly specifically to match the mood music - almost as though the program was an extended rock video. Style over substance, the critics said, as though that was something bad and shameful. It was the 80's - need more be said?

So how does this all relate to 'Collateral'? Well, something happened with the editing and particularly them music production. No honey-smooth music; it's jarring, disjointed and - most significantly - noticeable. If you've noticed no mention of the trivial stuff such as visuals & cinematography or the acting ... something happened there too and it was much more interesting. It's refreshing seeing Tom Cruise step outside the pretty-nice-boy stereotype and if he'd been given more to work with he could have added some serious depth and grit to story.

Despite the soundtrack let-down; despite the 2-dimensional storyline, all is not lost. This is worthwhile entertainment that will grab you in the mood and take you with it. It's not going to set you ablaze so set your expectations appropriately and you'll enjoy it.The pace is unusual; uneven with a slow-fast-slow approach that creates a 'when will the punch land?' feeling. The violence is causal, matter of fact and by no means purely physical, which supports the overall atmosphere nicely. Whatever else you might fault with the production the visual treatment is terrific. There's a bleak, almost monochromatic edge to the colouration and a washed-out look that - once again - supports the atmosphere. Nihilism should be effortless to be convincing and 'Collateral' takes the less is more approach to good effect. There's enough blam-blam-crash-boom-bang to keep the action folks interested but 'Collateral' provides more than a succession of set pieces choreographed around then next explosion. The morality is ambiguous (thank goodness) and while there's some sense that a message should be taken from it all it's not rammed down your throat or telegraphed with endless 'major-plot-point; major-plot-point' signposts in the written-for-morons style.

For:

- stark, nihilistic, ambiguous and visually delicious.

Against:

- intrusive soundtrack and some crashingly illogical elements to the plot that - had they been left out - would have improved the overall effect of the movie tremendously.

The Near Miss:

- Can someone give Mr. Cruise a role where the character has some SERIOUS depth? Given how well he did with what he had here there's every indication he could join the ranks of the unforgettable nasties. Bring it on.

Recommended dining:

The Gaumont production 'La Femme Nikita' by Luc Besson provides a better example of mood and atmosphere or the so-called style over substance genre but with a surprising amount of substance and some pathos thrown in for good measure.