I do like this DVD, despite I always prefer tribal fusion. I like it most about the posture thing. Ranya spends over 10 minutes in explaining posture and alignment, which I think already worths the whole DVD's price (although not a lot for 5 hours' lessons in a 2-DVD sets). Imagine you have to pee and hold it, this is the way to dance, it helps you feel grounded to the floor, gives a saucy twist to the moves. My Goodness! Aren't we talking of the same thing all the time? The chi in Chinese Kung Fu, the hole just a few inches below the belly button, the K exercise for strong inner muscle recommended by doctors,....all boiled down to the special lower abdomen strength.....then Ranya put a soft ball between her thighs to show the pulling in of the inner thighs, also a red spandex to pull butts inwards.............., to contain everything together.....like inside a cylinder! Oh, I forgot the zip that she stuck to her lower garment. Imagine a zip in the muscles at the middle front of the hips, yes, zip the muscles in ..And she put on a beautiful pink bra to show us how to open up the chest (breathe in first), & the back but at the same time keep the back muscles engaged as if being held by the bra straps....and with everything lift up (by pulling of the upper body uuuuuuuuup including the hands and then putting the hands down) so to create a space between upper body and lower body, so that movements become more fluid.....I wish I can spell out as clearly and interestingly as she does in the DVD..but it does open up my eyes...once I practise what she teaches, mine! My stomach naturally sinks in and my legs become firmer (I just ordered a ballet conditioning workout to help strengthening my lower abdomen, now I know I don't really need it.)!

No other belly dancers had told me the above, or as interestingly and in such great details as she does, which makes the DVD stand out. I have just told R, my son, that we need to have characters or to stand out amongst a group of persons. Like Tiramisu, the brandy makes it stand out, or chocolate orange mousse cake sold at Conrad, the orange peel makes it stand out....but not any ordinary cake with sugar, white flour, cream and butter (or even not butter but transfat) but no characteristics. In addition, the dancer is very sexy in her body language, including how she speaks, moves, pauses and dances .....so yes, this is a wonderful DVD!

In addition, she dances with live musicians too! With very sexy (feminine, I mean) moves,...very different from my favouite belly dance - tribal fusion (sort of modern)...I consider it is a must for my belly dance library. In any event, the posture thing is worth every penny of it!