Movement and color aid in the identification of character's personalities because warm colors and motion represent Frances `Baby' Houseman's radiant energy and aspiration and because cool colors and stillness represent Lisa Houseman's insignificant, unsuccessful role. In addition, the physical appearance of each sister suits her character well.

  Contrary to the norm, I viewed the sequel, Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights, before I had ever seen the original film, Dirty Dancing. I am basing this information on two occasions that I watched Dirty Dancing. The first time was on November 15, and the second on November 17, 2005. Both viewings were during the evening, in my home.

 As Frances `Baby' Houseman learned various dancing techniques, the upward motion of her body seemed soaring and free because it followed the natural tendency to move upward over a composition. Her movement in this direction indicated a strong sense of aspiration and joy as well as a position of power. During various dance routines, Baby often moved assertively toward the camera, reinforcing her confidence. This closeness also forced the audience to follow Baby on a more personal level throughout the film. The red, orange, yellow, and pink colored dresses that Baby wore were stimulating, attractive, and clearly portrayed her radiant energy.

 Cool colors, including blue, green, and gray, were worn predominantly by Lisa Houseman. Lisa played a much more subtle role than her sister, Baby. Her movements seemed to be choreographed with much less complexity that was hard to appreciate as opposed to the kinetic richness and beauty of Baby's dances. The relationship between the audience and Lisa was distant and rather impersonal because she often withdrew from the camera. Uncomfortable stillness upheld her role.

 In addition, the sisters' physical appearances suited their character well. Baby was a blue-eyed-blonde of medium height and had a bubbly personality. Stereotypically, this stood behind her successes in the dancing world, and her flamboyant relationships with the opposite sex. Even though she was beautiful, Lisa's pale skin, brown hair, and brown eyes, made her role much less memorable.

 Symbolic expressions powerfully reinforce each actor's character in the film Dirty Dancing.