For a very long time, I had put off purchasing any of the "Alien" movies on video because it always seemed like some change was taking place that would be an improvement over my purchase.  Once the DVD format became popular, it seemed there were at least two different editions of any "Alien" movie available at any given time.

Then one of my brothers spotted this HUGE (9-disc) boxed set of the four movies, knew I would appreciate it, and sent me a link to Amazon's page for it.  This is what I'd been waiting for, it seems!  Each film is presented in widescreen format in both its original theatrical version and in an alternate version, there are audio commentary tracks, and there are "making of" videos with all kinds of behind-the-scenes footage.

Whether the alternate versions of the films are actually improved is best left to the viewer (If you really want my opinion, I think "Alien" was actually improved by the added scene with the cocoon, since until I saw the second film I'd always assumed the alien was simply eating or killing people.  "Aliens" is not improved much, but it's interesting to see the scenes in which the colony is intact and populated --- before the aliens invade --- as a contrast to its "ghost town" look later.  "Alien 3" actually suffers in its alternate version, which is far less gory and more slow-paced than its original release.  And "Alien Resurrection" has an alternate opening and closing scene that, for all their technical glitz, are actually less interesting than what was in the original film.)

The special features are quite a treat, especially in the case of "Alien 3," which I feel is the weakest link in the chain (its high point being the clever means of disposing of the alien).  Apparently, the penal colony was originally going to be a wooden artificial world populated by neo-Luddite monks.  The alien or aliens would ambush them in a wheat-field, a visual reminiscent of the 'raptors in the tall grass in "Jurassic Park 2."  One monk would see Ripley as being in league with the Devil.  Thanks to endless script revisions and lack of funds (or lack of enthusiasm?), all that remains is the monk-like brotherhood that the prisoners have formed, and the general lack of high-tech weaponry.

To conclude, I would recommend this set for any fan of the "Alien" movies who would like to have all the versions, with their respective DVD bells & whistles, all in one box for easy access and comparison.