Probably riding on the success of their debut, The Spice Girls released their sophomore album a mere ten months after their debut. This may not seem to short but it is considering other artists who came out around the same time, such as Brandy and Monica with their sophomore albums, had several years away from the music scene between albums. This album is very similar to their debut. The girls co-wrote all ten of the songs on the album and it is saturated with dance hits even though ballads are really their strength. Lyrically, the album does not fair much better than the debut but the vocal talent is still undeniable. Also, the album was timed, though fairly rushed, in order to coincide with the movie of the same name. 
The album, like their debut, kicks off with the lead single, "Spice Up Your Life". Like the first track on the girls' debut, "Spice Up You Life" has extremely nonsensical lyrics but is unbelievably addictive and hard to get out of your head. The vocals are only average at best and the girls sound like they are shouting in a couple of places. The second track, "Stop", was also a big hit for the girls even though it was not particularly good. Possibly the only reason this song was such a success was because it was so catchy. Otherwise, it had little to offer (mediocre vocals and lyrics). 
Next came a debatable album highlight, the mid-tempo "Too Much". The girls do a great job with the style of song and it's a shame that it is the only one of its kind on the album. The lyrics are a little bit confusing at times but they do make sense, unlike in some other songs. Granted, the lyrics are a little repetitive (especially in the chorus) but the vocals are good enough that it makes up for it. This song is followed by one of the weakest on the album, "Saturday Night Divas". Like many of the Spice Girls' tracks, the beat is decent but the lyrics leave a lot to be desired. The chorus in this song is extremely irritating ("get down, get deeper and down, get down get deeper and down, Saturday night."). It leads nowhere and is extremely repetitive.
Following this was another album highlight, entitled "Never Give Up". It is a very fast track but it has a great message about, obviously, never giving up. The vocal quality in this song is decent. It is decent in the beginning, picks up toward the middle but goes a little downhill again towards the end. Unlike many of the girls' upbeat songs, this one actually works quite well. Unfortunately, it is trailed by another two weak tracks, called "Move Over" and "Do It". "Move Over", if you look at the lyrics, looks like one short song that was merely repeated to make it longer. Towards the end however, you have the girls simply stating words that rhyme with "generation." "Do It" does not fare much better. The girls pull what is commonly known as the "Mariah Carey style". That is to say, the sing some lines quietly then shout others. It works much better for Mariah.
Next, we come to the two best tracks on the album, "Denying" and "Viva Forever". "Denying" is extremely well sung and the lyrics, though a little weak at first, improve quickly to make a beautiful song. The girls convey the message that by denying who you are, "you ain't foolin' nobody but yourself". Finally, we come to the best track by far and my personal favourite, "Viva Forever". This is the only track on the album that actually has quality lyrics as well as stellar vocals. The lyrics are simply enchanting and even the music in this track works well with the vocals. Lastly, we have another weak track, "The Lady Is A Vamp". The album would have been much better off stopping after "Viva Forever". The last track seems to be a tribute of some sort but the vocals are exceedingly irritating and the lyrics are very difficult to follow.
Overall Mark: 2/5
Given that this is the girls' second album in only one year, you could expect it to go one of two ways. Either the girls could show off a whole different side to their personality or they could stick with the same formula as their debut. Unfortunately, they go with the latter because, well, why mess with something that worked? The girls are better off singing songs like Viva Forever, which is truly beautiful and showcases their talents. Regrettably, we only get a virtual copy of their debut with only four tracks that really stand out and only two of which are really amazing. I would borrow this before I bought it.