Unfortunately, Bridget Jones's Edge of Reason is just one more example of a sequel that falls short of the magical perfection of the original film.  Actors Renee Zellweger, Colin Firth, and Hugh Grant, reprise their roles with the usual charm and gusto of the first movie but their efforts can't sustain a weak storyline that has poor Bridget spiraling downwards into a seemingly endless series of mishaps which seem to become increasingly discomforting to watch.  The final (low) blow occurs when Bridget is arrested and detained at the Thai prison among women whom she finds out have been abused, drugged, and pimped by their "boyfriends".  The "humor" in this wears even thinner (if that's possible) when Bridget teaches her fellow inmates the proper words for singing Madonna's "Like a Virgin".  (Perhaps the writers should have been incarcerated instead of poor Bridget.)

The film sequel picks up where Bridget Jones's Diary ends, with Bridget and Mark Darcy well into the start of their relationship, wrapped up in the excitement, joy, and self-absorbed warmth of being a couple.  However, the relationship is tested as Bridget's insecurities coupled with Mark's self-conflict in trying to reconcile loving someone who doesn't quite fit in among his work colleagues and friends, forms the storyline for the movie.  Matters get further complicated with the reappearance of Daniel Cleaver with whom Bridget is paired for a work assignment.  While Edge of Reason has some wonderful moments reminiscent of the first film such as the exchanges (albeit short ones) between Bridget's parents, her friends, and of course the obligatory "giant panties" and disarmingly funny fight scene between Mark Darcy and Daniel Cleaver, in total it just isn't enough to match the near perfection of Bridget Jones's Diary.

It was also a bit surprising to see some character shifts, particularly with Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant) who in the first film was a seductive yet charming predator who seemed to have some (if little) conscience.  In Edge of Reason, his seductive charm has now taken on a darker quality which makes it clear he is not to be trusted.  Mark Darcy (Colin Firth) exudes moments of warmth ("I have a high regard for your wobbly bits") mixed with cool aloofness but underneath it all, he does love Bridget and we root for him as he struggles to define the context of that love.  As for Bridget, she continues to battle her own demons, but finally realizes that Mark does love her, "just as she is."  (Note:  Bridget's coloring has inexplicably changed from the engaging babyish colors of cream and pink from the first film to a somewhat ruddy tan in the sequel - which seems odd as the sequel is supposed to pickup just a few weeks (or 70+ shags-worth) from the end of the first movie.)

The DVD bonus segments, particularly Bridget's interview of Colin Firth was very funny, and the segment on the "Lonely London" CGI effects was quite interesting.  However overall it would have been nice to have had more material included on the DVD such as: a featurette on making the movie, trailers, movie premiere and press interviews, out-takes, information about the music selections used for the movie, and perhaps even more deleted scenes (only 3 deleted scenes were included on the DVD).  At  $20.99  this is a pricey DVD (more than The Incredibles, and just a few dollars short of Lord of the Rings and many other better made films) with few additional materials to justify the cost.