This is a very entertaining and delightful western to watch.

If you are looking for historical value and true-to-life realism in your western, then this might not be your best option.  Other than the fact that the two main actors are called Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid, and they rob trains, and they end up going to South America and rob banks, there isn't a whole lot of hardcore truth and factual events that you could point to in this movie and say with conviction that these were the true final days of BC & SK.

With that being said, let's not forget that this was made in 1969.  The movie itself looks about the same as many westerns being put out on television during that period - a bit campy and certainly more concerned with style and how well it looked, rather than telling the hardcore-gritty story of the two bandits.  The movie comes off as a very Hollywood-ish story that devotes more focus on making sure that the viewer was going to like BC & SK, (or specifically Newman & Redford) than it did on the subject of the story itself.  Watch and see if you don't think that this film is a case of Newman and Redford - playing themselves, as cowboys, then it does as them playing the cowboy characters.

As for entertainment value - this is an awesome movie.  It has plenty of cute one-liners and certainly repeatable lines (Who are these guys!?), funny and delightful moments, and plenty of time (film) devoted to making you feel all warm and fuzzy about the last pair of true western outlaws to grace the western hemisphere.

I would certainly not rate this in my top ten list of western movies, but that is because I look for more realism and reality in my movies than I do for artistic relevance and screen-appeal of the actors.  I would however rate this as being a movie that most people will really enjoy and get a kick out of seeing.  It's the type of movie that you SHOULD see, and will be happy that you did.  It will also appeal to those who want a taste of the late 60's early 70's style of making and presenting a movie - the musical score - the wide to zoom shots - the starry shots of presenting a pretty girl (Katherine Ross), etc.  All those crafts and that particular style of movie-making is now gone.