This edition gets 5 stars from me although I did give the volume 1 release a 1 star rating. This is how Glee should have been released in the first place, in a COMPLETE SEASON set. I understand why people who bought the volume one are upset, but at the same time, no one was forced to buy the volume one release. Yes, it was sneaky of FOX to issue a "Volume 1" when they had no plans for a "Volume 2," but anyone who actually read the reviews before they purchased volume one would have realized that FOX clearly had no plans for a second volume. Many people wrote reviews, saying things like "Don't but this release, don't let FOX rip us off" or "Let's teach FOX a lesson, don't purchase this!" and so on. The sad thing is most people ignored the warnings and bought the release anyways and are now complaining about this release even though they will probably end up buying this set as well. I was seriously tempted to buy the volume 1 release HOWEVER I held out instead because I knew this would happen. Don't go freaking out on FOX, they have every right to release their show in as many editions as they choose. Who knows, a couple years down the line they may decide to release a "Special Collectors Edition" for season 1. However, I do feel bad for fans who bought the volume 1 thinking it was the complete first season, but studios do what is best for the studios, even if that means irritating a few fans. Its up to the consumer to make decisions about whether they are going to purchase the product, and everyone should make sure to thoroughly research a product  before buying. Many customers knew the risks when they bought the volume 1 edition, and I know that equal amount of customers were happy just to have Glee episodes in their hands so early in the season regardless of whether FOX planned to release the 2nd volume. Next time, wait it out though before you buy the release, or buy it and don't complain about getting what you paid for.

Now on to this release. This is a seven-disc set planned to be released September 14th. Unlike the past volume release, which has little to no bonus features, the complete season set will have extended episodes, sing-along karaoke, a behind-the-scenes look at 'The Power of Madonna' episode, 'Glee' makeovers, never-before-seen 'Sue's Corner' segments, a dance tutorial and more. I haven't heard anything about episode commentaries, but hopefully there will be some of those as well.

As stated earlier, there are NO PLANS by FOX to release a 2nd volume with the 9 spring episodes as a companion to this volume 1 release. You will have to buy the Sept 14th complete 1st season set if you have already bought release and would like to own the other 9 episodes on DVD. In addition, there was talk earlier in the year about an alleged rebate included in the complete 1st season release so that fans who had already bought the volume 1 release could get some money back because they double dipped. Later on, FOX denied any such rebate, but now it looks likes there WILL BE A REBATE. All the info about this rebate, or "Gleebate" as FOX has dubbed via a special website FOX has set up.  Just google Gleebate DVD to see the rebate details and how to get ten bucks back.

I know it was kinda a low-down move for FOX to release the Volume 1 DVD set, but I can't help but be excited for this new complete season set!!

*****UPDATE: Ok I guess we all underestimated FOX! I am very happy though that they have decided to release a 2nd volume of glee for those who bought the first! Now everyone can stop complaining.