This film has many layers.

It is one of the best action movies ever made.  It is full of graphic beatings, intimidation, sexual sadism, shootings, fires and car crashes.  The Texas prison guards and police look real and mean business.  The criminals look and act like real criminals - seedy, ignorant, brutal, and callous.  When Beynon (whose name in pronounced "Benyan" throughout the movie) is found dead his brother orders his henchmen not to waste time burying the body, saying "dump it down a dry well, if you can find one."  McQueen handles the 12 gauge shotgun and .45 Government Model pistol adroitly as befits an ex-Marine and the shoot-outs are very believable.  The wounds look real, the dead people look dead.  In reality, two people could not survive such a series of violent encounters unscathed, but it's a movie, so they do.  Such is the magic of film that we believe it all happens just as we see it.

It's a portrait of life in a certain time and place, Texas in the early 1970's.  The background scenes are very unselfconscious and natural - the accents, the heat, the mesquite, and barbecue, the open and friendly manner of Texans.  The extras seem to have been there all along, living their lives; the camera just happens to catch them as they respond to the whirlwind of violence that rolls into town with McQueen and MacGraw.

It's the story of a strong sexual relationship between two very attractive people.  It is not surprising that Steve and Ali became sexually involved off the screen and eventually married.  The chemistry is obvious and clearly communicated, even though the standards of the time did not require the sexual explicitness that we have become accustomed to these days.

It is an exceptionally well made film.  Every frame hold one's interest.  In fact, Peckinpah's mastery of the visual aspect of film is such that each PART of each frame holds one's interest.

The plot is intriguing.  How is "Doc" going to get out of prison, and how is he going to rob the bank, and who is going to betray whom, and how?  And how are he and "Carol" going to finally get to Mexico?  Only the ending has a false ring.  "Doc" and "Carol" are ruthless criminals in spite of their good looks and classy clothes, but we prefer to think they are misunderstood lovers, and we want true love to win out in the end, so we accept this ending.  But as others have pointed out this is not how the book ended, and it is not consistent with the overall tone of the movie.

"The Getaway" is a powerful portrayal of the criminal mind as it acts out its ruthless greed and selfishness.  But two amoral people like "Doc" and "Carol" could in the end never have really trusted each other.  Thompson's story makes this clear, while Peckinpah's film muddies these waters in order to provide an acceptable "Hollywood" ending.

This review is based on the VHS version.

Update Oct. 20, 2007:

I have just seen the DVD version for the first time.  Visually it is a significant improvement over the VHS version.  The music is more coherent, less sappy.  The critical commentary track provides some very interesting insights into the acting and Peckinpah's film technique.  The "virtual" commentary by Peckinpah, MacGraw, and McQueen reveals all three to be fairly inarticulate and lacking in insight - Ali gushes on and on about what a great actor McQueen is, when what she really means is how much in love with him she is.

It's still a great film, even better on DVD.