I loved this movie, but there were four problems that made it difficult to love.

First, the character, Mary Kelly, is a whore who apparently never works.  You see her friends working, and even witness the transaction between a whore and her trick.  But Mary Kelly is clean and nice and somehow manages to make a living as a whore without having any customers.  I mean, I understand that one of the main characters can't be depicted as this disgusting, filthy, diseased whore, because no one would want to identify with her (whether they actually did or not is another story), but the way they sanitized it was ridiculous.

Second, the ending was just plain stupid.  They set it up so that this poor little French whore is killed in Mary Kelly's place (I don't care if I ruined it for you), and that Mary Kelly escapes back to Ireland where she raises a little orphaned girl.  This made me so angry I couldn't stand it.  First of all, the little French whore was just as sweet and nice as Mary Kelly was, but they make it look like it's somehow OK that the French whore was killed - it's NOT OK to kill off a whore just because she isn't your focus.  That in no way reduces the horror of the act itself.  ("Besides, there's no reason to kill [whores] - most of them are already dead inside.")  It was a stupid and endlessly irritating plot "twist."  I'll bet some Hollywood dim-wit forced them to tack that on.  No wonder the movie failed miserably at the box office.

Third, this took place in 1888, and then Mary escapes home to Ireland, where she raises her friend's little girl - you see her, looking like she's reached maybe six years old or so.  Well, guess what?  The Irish Potato Famine started in 1889, so Mary the Sanitary Whore, and baby Alice would have starved to death long before Alice got to be six years old.  Now, it makes sense to bet that Americans don't know their history, but still, it was schlocky and melodramatic and just plain pathetic.  I just couldn't deal with how stupid it was.

Fourth, there was a tacked-on love story.  I won't comment any further than to say that love stories or love-subplots ruin more movies than they save.

However (and I know how ridiculous this is going to sound after all the negative stuff I just said), other than these problems the movie was pretty good.  There are these seriously disturbing scenes in a mental hospital, and it's fun to watch Depp parade a whore around with him through an art gallery, offending all the "respectable" christian-types.  The dialogue is pretty decent as well.  I tend to shy away from movies set in this period - like Bram Stoker's Dracula - because modern writers can't seem to reproduce the dialect with any sort of accuracy.  I mean, this flick doesn't sound completely authentic, but it's really good relative to other movies set in this time, and there are even some decent jokes and wise @ss remarks ("I can suck the Thames dry").  Also, the movie is beautiful to look at.  I don't know anything about the art of movie making, but whoever was responsible for the background scenes and camera work did an excellent job.

What's more is that the plot, aside from the tacked-on love story, is interesting.  It isn't exactly accurate insofar as the details of the case, but at least it's compelling and somewhat plausible (as opposed to the travesty of Mary Kelly's never turning a single trick).

So, if you can deal with the above mentioned problems, the DVD is worth your money.  Even though these things bothered me more than they might have bothered most people, I own the DVD, and like the movie very much.  I know that sounds hypocritical, but I don't care.  That's how I feel about it.

Insofar as the second disc, and the special features, I can't comment.  I don't really care about that stuff, and don't own a single DVD with special features that I've ever bothered to watch.