I am a DIE-HARD fan of John Carpenter's Halloween. It is simply phenomenal. I am also a Rob Zombie fan. I like his music and was overwhelmed with joy after House of 1000 Corpses, just because it was a REAL horror film, when all we had were ignorant 'horror' films that just tried to trash horror altogether. When I first heard that Rob was going to do a Halloween movie, I jumped for joy. I heard he was supposed to be such a huge fan of the movie and I thought if anyone could bring it back to the brilliance of John Carpenter, Rob could do it.
  I WAS WRONG.
  I think Rob must've sat and watched John's movie and said, 'Everything he DID do, I WON'T do. Everything he DIDN'T do, I WILL do.'
  Not much blood, mine will be a bloodbath.
  Not a lot of nudity, mine will have wall-to-wall t&a.
People who never got the idea that Michael Myers was supposed to be the boogeyman and he's supposed to be a supernatural entity in the shape of a human will be happy, because Rob makes Michael a 'regular' guy, making the Loomis dialogue about him being evil sound really pretentious. Also, it's funny that you can keep shooting him and stuff and he still keeps coming, despite the fact he's a 'regular' guy. You can even blast his blood and brains all over the place and he'll just wind up with a little scrape on his head.
  Sorry Rob. Have to call B.S. on that.
  I'm really trying to say that Rob Zombie just WAY OVERTHOUGHT this movie. One of the things that made the original so great was the fact the story was so simple, if you just pay attention while watching it.
  I DO like the cast a bit. Danielle Harris and Kristine Bleebe are lovely, awesome and look really good with no clothes on. Malcolm McDowell was a super choice for Loomis. Brad Dourif is always a joy to see in any movie. We get the Zombie regulars (i.e. Sherry Moon, Sid Haig, Bill Moseley, Ken Foree, etc.) That warmed my heart to see that.
  I am waiting with anticipation to see Lords of Salem, his next movie, but Rob should stop with remakes and make his own, original movies. This flick shows that just because you can remake movies, doesn't mean you should.
  Plus, the original Halloween is a beautiful, well-shot movie. This looks more like Rob was making a dingy, unappealinjg exploitation movie. Good stuf, but John Carpenter still rules.