Despite it's glossy visuals, production values and dependable performances by Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette, Stigmata is an utter failure at it's core. At the basis of this overwrought dreck is a Catholic conspiracy revolving around a hidden gospel written by Jesus himself. A gospel that the church doesn't want anyone to know about. Their line of thought focuses on the belief that this testament would somehow challenge the basic tenants of Catholic faith. Most pointedly in the removal of a mid-point between man and god. Essentially saying that you wouldn't have to talk to god through the church and follow it's methods of repentance, (hail marys and whatnot). Unfortunately for the pretentious drivel that is Stigmata, there is a simple flaw that makes this film completely null and void. Apparently everyone involved in the production of Stigmata wasn't aware that all evolutions of protestant faith are already based on the iconoclastic tenant of a direct connection with god. Growing up a baptist I am well aware of it. I'm also aware that it's nothing new, and catholocism isn't any worse for wear because of it. Stigmata's intensely self involved delusion is, quite frankly, pathetic. That this film actually caused any ripples whatsoever in the Catholic community is beyond me.
Beyond that more obvious failing, this film has loads more. Logic leaps and plot contrivances are par for the course. We also get to revel in and underlying cheapness. This is most apparent in the occasionl and utterly pointless nudity of Patricia Arquette. Not that she's not a pleasure to look at, but it doesn't serve any purpose other than a thrill. Neither do the over stylized and over loud effects. At one point she is possessed by some kind of demon who procedes to toss Byrne around, trashing the place. The only reason it happens is so they could have some sort of evil and menacing presence in all this mumbo jumbo. Once this film goes all Exorcist on us, (a film who's shoes Stigmata couldn't even shine), there's no saving this mind number.
Yeck! Avoid like the plague.