The 1080p Video:

'Godzilla's 1080p MPEG-4 AVC transfer, in its original 2.39: 1 aspect ratio, is actually fairly solid. This isn't the knock-it-out-of-the-park home video presentation some might be expecting, but it's a perfectly fine transfer in its own right. (Especially of a movie I have no intention of ever, ever, EVER watching again.)

The movie is drenched in persistent rain, which adds a blurry, oppressive look to the entire film. While there is a fair amount of grain on the transfer (more than you'd expect for a relatively recent film), sometimes it became unclear whether or not the image was muddled or grainy or if it was just the added element of rain.

That said, other aspects of the transfer fare better. There are no wonky technical issues, skin tones look good, detail is heightened, and blacks are deep and dark.

The only other major problem has nothing to do with the crispness of the image, but rather the newly presented high definition presentation, in which the visual effects (of which there are many) look even lousier. Watch those baby Godzillas bouncing around Madison Square Garden and you'll wish Ray Harryhausen had slapped the filmmakers.

Now The Audio:

On the other hand, the lossless DTS-HD Master Audio 5.1 track is truly impressive. Literally from the opening frame, when the dirigible in the logo for Emmerich and Devlin's Centropolis Films production shingle flies through your living room, you'll know you're in for a treat.

This is one of those kick-ass mixes where, if you turn it up all the way, you'll probably get complaints from the neighbors, while at the same time there's enough nuance, subtlety and directionality of the mix that you'll actually be impressed, and not just for its sofa-shaking prowess.

Literally, the action sequences spring violently to life. Rubble cascades from buildings, suspension bridges snap and sway, and Godzilla lets out his piercing roar with such lifelike force that you'll wonder if the dinosaur-ish creature is in your home. There's always so much going on, with an emphasis on bowel-rattling bass that you'll wonder if you can take it all. You do, because it's that good.

That said, every effect is crisp and clear, the atmospherics (like that persistent rain) remain admirable and in the few sequences with dialogue, that too is crisp, clear and also well prioritized, even when competing with the on-screen mayhem. David Arnold's fantastic score, which is often overlooked, also sounds spectacular.

This mix really is reference-quality and was almost enough for me to watch the movie again. I said almost.

Also included are mixes in French DTS-HD Master Audio 5.1, Spanish Dolby Digital 5.1, Portuguese DTS-HD Master Audio 5.1 with subtitles in English, English SDH, French, Portuguese, and Spanish.

The Bottom Line is,
I might just only go see this movie for it's crisp audio track.

Video: 4/5
Audio: 5/5
Movie: 2/5