The number 23 (lowercased because I do not mean the movie yet) has a long-standing tradition of mystery and mayhem associated with it. The Hollywood rendition of "The Number 23" fails to connect with the mystery and resorts to mayhem, violence, and shock to derail what could have been a sly, psychological thriller.

Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, William Burroughs, Aleister Crowley, Robert Anton Wilson, and many other noted, great thinkers were ensnared by the spell of this number. So have many lesser known, but equally earnest seekers of truth. Jim Carrey, in the role of Walter Sparrow, seems like a cardboard cut-out of the authentic seekers who have attempted to solve the 23 enigma.

Many have been swept up in the synchronicities associated around the number 23 as it manifests unexpectedly; more than a few become obsessed. If you look for 23, it's suddenly all around, traversing time from past to present. It might be the metal numbers on a power pole in your yard, the number of the garment inspector who left a slip in your new shirt's pocket, a child's birthday, or your change from the coffee shop.

It may appear simply as shorthand for referring to our current president,"W," the 23rd letter of the alphabet, and it is in our DNA. And the number 23 is central to the plot in the popular TV show "Lost," and 23 showed in some fashion nearly every episode of "Star Trek the Next Generation" that I watched.

This movie suggests that the number 23 has some secret control of Walter Sparrow's mind and actions, but the movie only scratches the surface, substituting violence for subtlety, stumbling over the historical perspective, and weaving out of control. The attempts to show how 23 is everywhere come across as a bit contrived at times, but do capture the mindset of those who become ensnared in obsessive thinking.

Jim Carrey does take what is a quiet, internalized obsession for most star-crossed 23 conspirators and turn it into an external manifestation of fear, confusion, and madness. It's fun to watch his reactions to the web of 23s ensnaring him and to work out the codes that yield 23s as his character does the same.

The movie, though, is a glorious mess of confusing plot strands, flashbacks, and twists, and provides scant understanding into why the characters choose one course of action or into what motivates most of the supporting cast to be part of the storyline.

Visually, the tone and sets work with the theme--better than a convoluted plot that hints at the mystery of 23 without even suggesting what is at the heart of the 23 enigma.

It's too bad that those who brought this concept to the silver screen did not do a better job at conveying the story of this number, but perhaps they were all puppets of a greater force. In other words, a documentary would have been much more engaging than this flawed fictional portrayal about the 23 enigma.