I had always wanted to see this movie.  An ex-girlfriend of mine and I always used to say we were going to watch it when we were together, but never did.  That was maybe a year ago, and i just saw it for the first time tonight after long last.
I really wish i hadn't seen it.  You can get a gist of the plot from some of the other reviews, i'll just get into why this film was not good at all.
The dialogue in this movie was awkward in most parts if not all.  The only time things were really flowing was when Bike Dude was talking to that one girl's flatmate.  The lack of good dialogue made it so that i didn't care what happened to any of the characters.  If the two main people, I can't even remember their names, had never seen each other again, i wouldn't have really cared, becasue the awful dialogue never showed any kind of spark between the two of them.  We are just supposed to see them having sex and assume that they are perfect for each other and so incredibly into one another.
I never heard one bit of REAL romantic conversation during the movie.  It was all short, clipped little phrases stuck together.  I know that at the beginning of relationships, things are like that, awkward, but GEEZ!  The two main characters, Steve and Linda, i think they're called, never had a moment that WASN'T awkward.  If that was their relationship in its entirety, it was truly pathetic, and they didn't belong together because they couldn't even have normal conversations.
There was no real action, apart from people bobbing their heads to grunge music while the band onstage tore it up occationally.  The characters were left to pull the wieght of the film, and they were all basically transparent and one-dimentional.
PAINFUL to watch.  Awful editing job.  Things just kind of rambled from one thing to the next.
I never got wind of a coherent theme, or moral, or anything that i could've learned from the movie...
although the cameos were quite interesting.  You'd see a person walk up next to Matt Dillon and HEY! it was Chris Cornell.  That kept my attention.
The one thing that really bugged me is that before i saw the movie, i heard the soundtrack and LOVED it.  But then, in the movie, the have Chris Cornell singing "Seasons," an incredibly emotional song, and they have this vapid, colorless Steve walking down the sidewalk contemplating a boring relationship based off of sex and awkward conversation.  It destroyed all the great music, to have such a piecemeal film constructed around it.