Helvetica is a documentary about the eponymous font (sister to Windows' Arial). Not being a graphic designer myself, it was interesting to have a glimpse into that world and to hear people share their passion in that area. (Sometimes I was laughing AT them, however, when they were over the top in their love for a font!)

The film documents the creation, reception, backlash, and renewed appreciation of the font among designers, but now it seems almost meaningless. It was interesting to hear how Helvetica discarded the seraphs of other fonts and fit perfectly with the Modernist sensibility that dominated in the 50s and 60s.

Corporations and designers adopted the font for their logos and communications because it looked clean and modern and accessible, which is how they wanted to be perceived. But all that is now gone because, when nearly everyone adopted it (and it's amazing how many companies have), any comparative message that it might have carried is lost. Instead of standing out as clean/modern/accessible, now you're just like everyone else.

Reflecting on the film, I was reminded of other artsy people discussing their works and the weight they carry -- an author, a musician, a director, or actor speaking of all the thought that went into a particular scene, the emotional freight that it communicated so clearly for them, and how moving it was to everyone who experienced it. Yet for me, it was just "meh."

So it is with the Mona Lisa, so it is with <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0930289234">Watchmen</a>, so it is with Helvetica. Each of these may have forever changed ("revolutionized" is too strong of a word for a typeface) their worlds, and comparing each to what came before I can see why. Nonetheless, time has marched on, and the arts have continued to develop, sometimes for the better, sometimes the worse.

In the end, I prefer other art to the Mona Lisa, though little of it could have happened without her. I prefer Bach and Mendelssohn to Renaissance music, though the former is unimaginable without the latter. And I prefer Times New Roman to Helvetica.

On a technical note, I watched this on Amazon's Video on Demand, but, unlike other things I've seen here, Helvetica's sound was too low on my laptop's built-in speakers. I had a to attach externally powered speakers.