Ferguson does an excellent job exposing the banking crisis in easy terms so that everyone understands.  We are typically made to believe that these sensitive financial instruments are too complex to understand and so therefore we should go back to the celebrity gossip column and stay there.

But no major networks are covering the crisis adequately, and our eyes our not yet open to the rapacious nature of our current banking and monetary system.

If you can understand greed and power, you can understand the current crisis. And it is still, years after the movie was made, current.  Why?  Because no one has yet been placed in handcuffs.  All of the criminals still walk free. Instead of going into hiding, these top CEO bank robbers are smug and brazen, and still at work, devaluing currency, gambling with the money of banking customers and tax payers---the globe over.

So even if you bought a house that you could afford during or before the housing bubble, you are still a victim of a gigantic crime.

Why is no one in handcuffs?  The regulatory agencies and the honest people put in place to oversee banking activity have all been deliberately downsized, bribed, or intimidated.  So the out-of-control theft could happen and even accelerate.

Ferguson does an especially honest job of exposing the problem as a bipartisan creation.  There are individuals in both major political parties to blame, as politicians helped deregulate consumer laws that were originally put in place to protect us.

The original criminals, however, are the top echelon of the banking empire, especially the Federal Reserve, the fox who is nefariously guarding the hen house. Not only did  the criminals deregulate the laws which were originally put in place to protect us, they broke existing laws to do their evil deeds.

And because there have been no arrests, the looting continues.  I think Inside Job is required viewing for every US Citizen. Not only has our money been stolen, but our freedoms as well.

Wake up, America, we are being robbed!