If i need to describe this movie in one word, i guess it would be charming.

Being a big fan of a "Prayer for Owen Meany" (John Irving's novel the film was suggested by)

there were bound to be some things i didn't quite picture exactly like the director

but i must say that i am thankful for the director's choice of keeping the storyline

"simple", that is chucking the whole american history part of the novel and the children's

growing up. Johnson concentrated on the most charming part of the novel, keeping in all the

quirky and often hillarious lines. The cast is tremendous, starting with Ashley Judd,

who is perfect for the part, Joseph Mazzello, the ever serious young actor who as always lives up to the audiance's expectation

(and i must say that is a very hard task since his performances through the years have become nothing less than

brilliant), and there is also the young Ian Michael Smith, who i have to say at certain points of the film even matches Mazzello's talent

(reffering to the scene on the dock where he's shouting "Sorry!", which is heartbreaking).

Oliver Platt doesn't have that much to do, but what he's given he uses professionally,

and Dana Ivey, as always, sparkles in a female supporting role. Very rarely do you find the music that

breathes life in to a certain story and whoever chose it, did a fantastic job.

Also kudos to the director of photography, who helped, in association with the director, to make

every shot breathtaking and stunning. I almost forgot to mention what a pleasure it was to see Jane Hooks in the part of Miss Leavy

(i loved her in the "3rd rock from the sun"). The only things i hold against this movie is the choice of Jim Carrey as a narrator.

There's just not enough spirit in his narration, not enough warmth to the whole story and the exquisite character that is Simon Birch.

This film is not just a must see, it forces to you to replay it over and over again

breathing in the sweet aroma of the 60s America and the great tale of extraordinary friendship and,

ultimately, love.