DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER, the seventh official movie in the James Bond series, is a surprisingly mediocre affair. Producers Broccoli and Saltzmann valiantly attempt to remake GOLDFINGER, but wind up with a simulacrum of that acknowledged masterpiece. Thus, while it's often fun, it seldom feels inspired.
After a weak precredit sequence in which he tracks down and kills his archnemesis Blofeld (or does he?), Bond is assigned to find out who behind the theft of diamonds from mines in South Africa, and for what purpose. He must also discover who has been murdering members of a smuggling pipeline. As it turns out, Blofeld, hiding behind a Howard Hughes-style business empire, has been stockpiling the diamonds so that they can be used to refract light for a powerful laser satellite which can destroy whole cities.
Up to a point, it works. The first act, which finds Bond taking the guise of captured diamond smuggler Peter Franks, is quite good. It even allows for a laugh when Franks escapes and Bond kills him outside of Tiffany Case's (Jill St. John) Amsterdam apartment. She inspects Franks' wallet, which Bond has replaced with his own, and gasps in horror. "You've just killed James Bond!" Connery, in his best Bondian manner, merely shrugs. "It just proves no one's indestructable."
Unfortunately, the Maibaum and Mankiewicz screenplay is muddled and confusing. Despite some outstanding dialogue (some of the best in the series), the story itself is difficult to follow. Only on repeat viewings, for example, do we learn that the smugglers are being murdered because the pipeline is being closed. However, we never know if the villain started the pipeline to begin with or merely infiltrated it. We never understand why some of the secondary characters show up in key scenes. GOLDFINGER benefitted from economy and clarity; DIAMONDS has neither.
Guy Hamilton takes the director's chair again, and he brings the same sense of pace and glitz he brought to GOLDFINGER. But this time the pace is so fast that one barely has time to digest what is happening. And despite one good fight scene, the picture suffers from a curious lack of suspense, especially during the climax, which takes place on an oil platform. Worse still is the inclusion of juvenile humor, which distracts from one's overall enjoyment of the picture (and serves as a harbinger of the Moore years).
Connery gives a relaxed and confident performance as James Bond, as does Ms. St. John as Tiffany Case. Charles Grey plays Ernst Stavro Blofeld as witty and urbane, even charming, but not at all menacing. The secondary villains aren't very menacing, either, and it often seems like Bond dispatches them too easily.
Musically, the picture is uninspired. Barry's score is okay but does not rank with his best, and Shirley Bassy's title song, which has some genuinely haunting instrumentals, is noisy and inane. It simply lacks the vigor of her previous effort - yep, GOLDFINGER.
Connery's last picture for the franchise - but not his last portrayal as Bond - shows the series in decline. It is fun, to be sure, but its reliance on the previous outings is starkly evident. Despite its outstanding dialogue, DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER is a weak entry in the series.