Please don't hate me for disliking this anime.  I watched it all, and whenever I discuss it with people, they can't believe I 'didn't get it' or was dissatisfied with the 'not-a-real-ending' ending.  They tell me it's got nothing to do with Judeo-Christian themes, though the characters live in a monastery environment and have angel's wings and are outcasts (sinners).

You can read the wonderful reviews and get the gushing perspective, or can read mine and see why I think this way.  Let's go over the title of this review piece by piece.  First it's Slice-of-Life.  You won't see any action, or romance, and the pacing is slow.  To begin with, I'm not a fan of Slice-of-Life, and I saw all these five star reviews and let someone talk me into watching it.  Stop right here if you also like hot-blooded man anime, because this is about as chick-flick as anime can get.

If you have kids, the kids will like it.  It does function as good babysitting -- it's a pleasant juvenile moralistic fairy tale.  Not so wonderful if you happen to be an adult; at least I didn't find it at the level of Miyazaki or Disney movies, which I always enjoy because they have great dramatic tension.

If you can fall in love with the characters, this won't matter, but if you are like me, and cynically MST3K it in your head because it's boring, thinking 'this is a new fan-pandering direction...  loli-angel-furries' then the first episodes will also fall flat with you.  If you like anime such as <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001BN4WA4">Aria the Animation Season 1</a>, you likely love the show (and you should buy it).

Next we have 'allegorical' and 'fill-in-your-own context.'  Haibane Reimei is set in an idyllic 18th century style location (near a large town) with caring people and tons of daily chores.  It is wholesome, hearty, and flat out boring.  The animation is good, but the story can be a metaphor if you want it to be one.  Whatever ideas you have about life-after-death, you can apply them to this show in some fashion and grow quite attached your personal interpretation.  I've had people foam at the mouth about how their interpretation makes H.R. such an awesome story, and I'm such a terrible guy for not agreeing with them.  I'm not going there, but if you like intellectual anime open to highly subjective philosophy, you'll like this product if you enjoy non-violent slow plotlines.

Finally, what really drove this anime into the 'dislike' category for me was the ending scene.  Yeah, it's an end.  Some will even argue their interpretation means it's a redemptive end.  The type of end it is, well that's not a part of the actual show.  My viewpoint demanded more for me to consider the end a real end, and let's leave it at that.

I didn't like the show.  If you share my tastes, which I have communicated in this review, you won't either.  I concede it is a good production, but I also hate artsy films with high production values, and this anime toed the line between 'boring kid's story' and 'artsy philosophy.'  Make of that what you will, and please don't rage-unhelpful this review because you thought the anime was the greatest thing ever.  There are plenty of glowing reviews, and I know my opinion is in the minority.  Feel free to tell me how my opinion offends you in the comments.  Thanks!