01-27-2010 NOTE: Liongate has replied to my email, and has promised to send a replacement. They have not specified a date. Since it appears the "new" version is not yet for sale on amazon, I am not holding my breath, but it is heartening to see they have responded as they have.

12-28-2009 NOTE: The NY Times reports Lionsgate acknowledges the missing 10 minutes (a production error), and will will provide a replacement (83 minutes) for those who purchased the 73 minute version. Details by sending an email to [...]  or 800-650-7099

I have not contacted them yet, but thought I should add this information right away, for those who like me, love this film.

As today this dvd is not available directly from Amazon, I presume they are awaiting the new 83 minute edition before they relist it for sale.

MY ORIGINAL REVIEW:
I'm terribly  biased toward this film. One of those that either grabs you, or bores you til your eyes roll back in your head. If youre looking for a plot, theres not much to summarize: you'll get an intimate look at a 1904 Christmas party in Dublin. Little happens. But much is revealed as this Christmas Eve passes. The attendees are a cross-section of (mostly)  Catholic Dubliners. Joyce is quoted in the last few minutes of the film, in a very  memorable scene.

One reviewer here mentions several minutes of the original film were cut in this recent dvd transfer  This film was only available (in the USA) on vhs  until recently.  Both the ntsc and 2006 pal dvd  versions sold on amazon (and amazon uk)  show the running time as 83 minutes. An old vhs tape selling  on amazon.uk  shows the time as 79 minutes, so I'm  a bit confused. If it has been cut, its a shame; this one could be 4 hours longer, and I wouldnt mind.

The incidental music is wonderful too. Incidentally, a Broadway musical of this short story ran briefly back in the '90s. I would love to see the full score of that show released, though I fear its not worth the expense for the producers, since cast recordings generally dont sell well.

This is John Huston's last film. His daughter Angelica is a member of the magnificent ensemble cast.