As a big fan of the book series, I was somewhat reluctant to watch this series. Too often, good books don't translate into film -- particularly into television series! But despite my trepidation, I bought season one and I have to tell you -- IT IS PERFECT IN EVERY WAY.

No, it's NOT a literal transcription of the books but it does remain fairly true to the plotlines and "spirit" of the original books. None of the minor changes hurts the story and a few of the changes -- like new characters -- actually add to it.

When critiquing books and shows, one of my criteria is whether or not I like the characters. After all, I'll be spending several hours (at least) with them. I wouldn't spend time with a loud, nasty or vulgar neighbor so why would I spend time with characters I don't like? Based on this one criterion, this show is a real winner. I liked ALL of the "regulars" -- Precious, and Grace and JLB, and BK -- and would gladly have dinner with any of them!

I can't possibly list everything I liked about the series, but I will point out a few highlights:

CASTING -- is perfection itself. I was worried that they would make Precious less of a "traditionally built" woman to fit the common TV star mold (young, thin and vapid) but Jill Scott is a true beautiful fatty (not as fatty as I am, but she can be forgiven that one flaw). She's a bit younger than I thought she was  in the books (I seem to remember reading that Mma was in her late 30s or early 40s?) but Scott's depiction is so true to character that it didn't bother me in the least. The other main characters are equally ideally cast with particularly kudos to the actors who play JLB Matakone and Mma Makutsi. Absolute gems one and all!

WRITING -- the writing is funny but never slapstick, poignant without being maudlin, and always very natural -- the way people speak, not the way writers write.

CINEMATOGRAPHY -- short of going to Botswana, I can't think of a better way to view this sometimes stark but always intriguing country. The shots are as good as you'll see in any first rate movie and almost never see in television series.

In short, I simply adore this show. It's the best thing I've watched in years (decades?) and I hope it goes on and on and on and on...