INDECENT PROPOSAL, along with THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (Al Pacino and Keanu Reeves) are two of the most entertaining morality plays out there.  The  moral to the story, without needing to go into Christian theology or  anything else is really simple: there's no such thing as a free lunch.  I  remember when the movie was out in the theatres and the many sound bite  talk show people would ask guests and people on the street if they would do  what the couple Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson did in the film; so many  fools said "yes, in a heartbeat" and I wondered about the  education system of our country!  The line of the stylish Robert Redford  when Demi Moore accused him (while slowly being seduced by him) of being a  man "who likes to own things" summed up the whole movie:  "You think I need to BUY women?"  Redford, a man in this movie  who as a billionaire has seen and caused the birth and death of  multi-national corporations the size of ancient civilizations, knew EXACTLY  what would happen to their marriage, and to their mind- and to her heart,  if they knowingly accepted this proposal most indecent. He depended on  THEIR arrogance and scoffing at the fragile nature of human relationships  and the invisible architecture of the human soul; knowing, like every man  (and woman) with a secret plan for another human being, that that would  bring about the predictable but unexpected chain of outer events.  The  movie's most poignant turn, however, is when he reveals the road not taken  in HIS life, with all his billions, and how that has generated much of his  actions.  Only then do we really discover under no uncertain terms what he  wants, and what he is willing to do to get it.  That really begins the  falling domino of epiphanies that leads to the revealing of the gentle,  fragile and beautiful hearts of all three of the characters, and the  transcendent power of love, committment and surrender.  
It's a good  guy/girl movie as well, because Woody Harrelson is so much the All-American  man, full of rambunctious flaws and money problems (can't relate), where  Robert Redford is, well, Robert Redford; he is the next best thing to Sean  Connery's James Bond in this movie when it comes to the debonair, power-  broker man the women couldn't resist if he had a 30k a year job, let alone  making 30k every couple of hours.  The testosterone is there.  Combine  that with the transformation of both of their characters because of the  love of Demi Moore, who can play the dichotomous strong/weak women better  than most of the Hollywood actresses out there still (if she would just  take better scripts- aren't the bills paid sweetie?), and you've got more  intelligent INNER action, romance and sympathy than you can shake a stick  at.
Worth owning.  Ignore some of it's flaws (too miniscule to mention  really; if you want CASABLANCA than buy that for Gawd sakes) and you'll  have a great time with it- perhaps even learn something about yourself that  you didn't know you knew.