Going into this movie blind, with no expectations, and "negative critic review" skepticism, I came out smiling and applauding to the credits. The story is not to be compared strictly to the Shakespeare play, but it gives plenty of "easter egg" nods of acknowledgment to the masterpiece, including one very special (and clever) appearance that was quite a surprise to see! No spoilers here..

Watching feuding gnomes in glorious color and animation will enchant the little ones, but the humor and script will captivate the older audiences, including everyone from young adult college kids (I'm 25 myself) to parents and grandparents. Keep your eyes peeled, and your ears perked, for fun and hilarious references throughout. The cast is a treat including everyone from Ozzy Osbourne to Michael Caine, and the music is great too, especially if you're a "classic rock" Elton John fan from days past. Every tune is either strictly from his library or carefully paraphrased background music that sends subliminal messages making you question, "Which one is that one?" Of course, each familiar number makes you want to sing along.

As for the 3D, at first I thought some of the tricks at the beginning were "cheap" tricks, as are present in all 3D movies.. then the 3D opens up with some really awesome scenes which make parts of the scenery push through the screen and hover over the living room floor, from sprinkling water to the roofs of work-sheds to blades of grass to dusty debris to beautiful flowers. The crystal clear 1080p resolution brings out the rustic look of the gnomes, and the colorful palette of detail bursts with life on your 3D television. It's also a nice touch to have "full screen" 1.85:1 aspect ratio that fills your widescreen display without any black bars on the top and bottom.

Overall, I went into this film with unfortunate doubts clouding my own judgment. The resulting smiles never ceased, the laughs were never forced, and I truly felt great when the credits rolled. The good feeling you have when you eat a really tasty meal, or walk out of a difficult exam, relieved and content?

Yea, that feeling.