I purchased this movie strictly on the basis of the Academy Award nods it received. I wanted to see it in the theater, but never got around to it.

My former acquaintance with the Coen Brothers, who directed Oh Brother Where Are Thou?, had me thinking this would be top shelf entertainment mixed with elements of plot complexity that would have me walking away feeling satisfied.

What I was treated to however is a movie that by pretending to be psychologically absorbing ends up being overly pretentious, adding nothing to an age-old theme, except replacing time-tested dialogue with wandering philosophic rants and discursive action segments. The minimalist trend in our moviemaking industry for avant-garde films has apparently shown that not even backwoods story telling is immune to overweaning reintrepretation. Tommy Lee Jones thus appears as a rustic sage no different than a Greek philosopher.

Further, I'm not sure why this story needed to be told. That would seem the most important obstacle to overcome when pitching any idea to a studio. Get the studio's buy-in and perhaps they'll listen.

There was nothing particularly engaging about watching a guy who stumbles upon some money bungle his way through a series of close calls with a hired assassin, only to give up the ghost in the end. It's been done before. If walking around bug-eyed for most of the movie and acting as cold as the grim ripper qualifies for Oscar buzz, then I guess Javier Bardem deserved it. But I'm surprised such one-dimensional acting is the flavor of the day here. It was Frankensteinian to be quite frank (no pun intended). Why not give Arnold one as well for his stoic farce as a cyborg from the future? Ok, I know he didn't flip coins, but he did have some great non sequiturs! Tommy Lee Jones, who has been typecast ever since his days in the Fugitive, could have been completely left out of the cast, and I don't see how it would have made the slightest difference except to stamp the movie with philosophical substance. It seemed his most important role in the film was to reveal the decimation and aftermath of the bloodbaths left behind by Javier Bardem and various associates. Every now and then, he muses on the meaning of life through the current set of circumstances and in one throw-away scene between him and another officier, we see his real dismantling of the situation as a fatalist polemic against the societal "changing of the guard" (i.e., kids walking around with green hair). You don't need to be the Oracle of Delphi to know that crime and violence are pervasive, and such open-ended observations, while trying to show that it can happen anywhere (even in small Texas towns) is no greater revelation than it's ever been. Thus, the Coen Brothers do nothing here to repristinate the topic.

Reviews that consider this kind of storytelling spellbinding seem to fall victim to a machination that lies at the heart of postmodern literature as well: if you can create a story in which your audience misses the point, you can always appeal to something beyond their comprehension. Since most people don't want to admit they don't get it, the wagon train has been set in motion, and those same people will likely admit to its sheer genius, if only not to be shamed by their brethren; however, there will be little conformity or reason as to why or what makes it genius.

In summary, stay away from this movie unless you want to fall into the postmodernist move toward disappearing storylines, gross character development, and cut scenes which string along the movie in perpetuity without resolution.