I saw this movie at the Loews theater in NYC by Lincoln Center.
I went with 3 other people and thought the theater would be empty.  To my surprise, the theater was PACKED and we were barely able to get seats (we needed to sit apart)....this was even after the movie had been in theaters for a while.  
I know about the 1915 Armenian Genocide where 1.5-2 million Armenians were exterminated (learned about it in college), and was skeptical about how the movie would come out.  I think Atom Egoyan had quite a challenge in making it considering there have been NO PREVIOUS MOVIES BASED ON THIS TRAGIC HISTORICAL EVENT and Turkey still denies it.  By judging how packed the theater was, and how quiet everyone was while watching it, I think it's safe to say he did a SPECTACULAR JOB! 
Reading about it in a textbook is one thing, but watching it on screen is another! If you were not moved while watching this movie then you are probably as heartless as the turks and nazi's who commited Genocide! I recommend any college, university, or high school professors and teachers to use this movie as an aid to lectures on Genocide and Haulocaust.  The movie within a movie helps make the history more clear.
If you don't believe me, then read the NEW YORK TIMES review:
"... Ararat is hands down the year's most thought-provoking film."
It's not just a story that deals with the Armenian Genocide and issues of truth and denial....it deals with so many other issues people in present day society live with every day.  There is a struggle between the loyalty toward family vs. loyalty toward significant others.
Put all the secondary and tertiary story lines and themes aside.  This has been the first movie about the ARMENIAN GENOCIDE-the first Genocide of the 20th century (before the haulocaust) and it was long overdue.  It's a tragic chapter in the history of humanity where Armenians as well as Greeks, Assyrians and other Christians were also persecuted and massacred.  
Hopefully this movie will educated more people about what happened so we won't be destined to repeat history.  This is evident in history when Hitler gave encouragement to his followers by saying.....who after all remembers the Armenians?
Read the book "an american physician in turkey" by Clarence Ussher; the movie is based on it.  It's a story about an American missionary Physician who goes to Turkey to help the Armenians during the Genocide.  It's an eyewitness account of what happened...