I purchased this film with high hopes, being an aficionado of off-kilter movies.  And with a plot like Being John Malkovich's, how could I go wrong?  A downtrodden puppeteer, working on floor seven and half of an office building, discovers a portal into the mind of John Malkovich.  Even with such an intriguing premise, though, I felt this movie struck out (I am in the minority in feeling this).
Let me first say that all of the primary actors performed brilliantly.  Cusack played both the melancholy and crazy sides of Craig the puppeteer quite well, and Diaz really shone as his quirky wife.  One of the best performances was by Malkovich himself, lampooning himself quite handily and playing the different "inhabitants" of his body as adroitly as he played his own self.
However, even these brilliant performances don't save the movie.  Fantasy is a difficult genre to conduct successfully, contrary to popular belief.  One of the unwritten rules of fantasy is that, no matter how fantastical the story, it needs to be internally consistent.  The film fails miserably in this aspect.  Sometimes only a single person can inhabit Malkovich, sometimes multiple people.  Far-fetched explanations about the subconscious and the "power of the puppeteer" attempt to account for this discrepancy but ultimately prove insufficient, if you follow them through to their logical conclusions.  The writer also throws in several random occurrences with no apparent connection to the idea of the portal.  Why, for instance, does Malkovich end up in a world full of people who look like him when he goes through the portal?  Is this some play on his ego?  On the nature of how we see the world?  I really don't know, and I don't think these inconsistencies were meant to be "things to make you go hmm," as in other films.
And I suppose that's really what really bothered about Being John Makovich.  The idea is a fascinating one, brilliant even, with so much potential.  But that potential is squandered for cheap laughs: a lesbian affair through Malkovich's body, chimpanzee childhood traumas, lecherous old men, etc.  Instead of harnessing the inherent ironic humor in the idea and making this a thought-provoking movie, the writers used the idea to string together several cheesy laughs characteristic of other Hollywood comedies.
As it is, I give Malkovich a star for good acting and another star for a nice idea.  For a real five-star, absurd, ironic, and absolutely fascinating comedy, I recommend Fight Club.