I saw the movie on opening night, and I thought it was pretty great. Of course, the immediate question will be how it compares to Nightmare Before Christmas.  I think that Corpse Bride fails to quite achieve the greatness of Nightmare, which is one of my favorite films of all time, but I'm certainly not saying that it isn't great fun, or a success... it is.  Part of the question may involve the fact that Nightmare was Burton's first and therefore definitive animated movie, and that this one, though certainly not any sort of 'sequel', just by merit of being a similar film in many ways will always seem at least a little inferior in the minds of most.  However, it may be slightly more than that:  this one didn't exactly strike the same magical chord with me as Nightmare (of course I am an older and different person now), but I still liked it a lot.  As some other reviewers have stated, this film also seems fairly short in comparison.  I will say this:  the animation, especially at the beginning, is stunning - crisp and complex, probably more so than with its predecessor, and that in itself is a joy to see.  The colors are very drab in the beginning, as befits the gloomy starkness of the film's mood and its Victorian (ha ha) setting.  Then the film becomes much more colorful in the land of the dead, turning the conventions of death and life around, a very interesting touch, I thought.  It seemed, though, that the sharpness of the images became more blurred later in the movie, with all the colors and more sources of light.  Perhaps this is intentional, or maybe it was just my eyes, but I preferred the crisper animation.  I liked most of the characters a lot (Christopher Lee's character reminds me of the Winter Warlock from "Here Comes Santa Claus"), but overall didn't find them as endearing as Jack, Sally, the two-faced mayor and company...  At first, I didn't like Emily (the corpse bride herself) so much, but her redemption at the end is more than enough to change one's mind.  The dog (I forget his name) is just as cute as Jack Skellington's Zero.  As for the music, I'll agree with some reviewers that it definitely lacks the very original punch of Elfman's work for Nightmare (one plus however are the touches of harpsichord in the dreary above-ground world - perfect!).  The main song number in the land of the dead seems to come off as a silly imitation of the style of Oogey Boogey as lacking in substance as he was (okay, okay, the bugs do count as something..)  In fact, the music may be the only thing I can put my finger on that I would consider a disappointment in this film, but it's still one worth seeing for anybody (considering, though, that the target audience is really adults, not children, as the themes and images may be considered quite morbid), and a must for Burton fans like myself.  I might add that I absolutely loved Charlie & the C.F. too, and am a big fan of Tim's work, particularly Big Fish, Sleepy Hollow, Ed Wood and Batman (Apes is my least favorite of his work).  Despite my constructive criticisms, this one remains a dark and wonderful tale with a life-affirming message.