The cracking of the enigma code played an integral part of the allied war effort of World War II.  The Germans had developed and nearly perfected a code machine capable of sending accurate messages swiftly without fear of interception due to it's complexities.  It was important for the allies to not only get their hands on an enigma code machine but to decipher its ever-changing code.
U-571 builds its premise around this exciting and disturbing event but the film, itself, is anything but exciting.  It merely attempts to ride on the coattails of other submarine films such as The Hunt For Red October and Das Boot, including all of the suspense devices that it can squeeze into its 2 hours.
Matthew McConaughey plays Lt. Tyler, an ambitious young marine officer wanting his own naval commission.  'I don't think so' says his Captain (portrayed woodenly by Bill Paxton).  Apparently Tyler would not be capable of making the tough decisions, risking lives for the mission or the greater cause.  Disappointed, Tyler wonders what his next mission will be, succumbed to the thought that he will forever be a submarine's second in command.
But this is WWII and his next mission is revealed quickly - to disguise their US submarine as a German submarine, find another German submarine stranded somewhere in the middle of the Atlantic, pretend to be Germans, board the real German submarine, steal their enigma machine and get out of sight before the real Germans arrive.  But the catch is to ensure that the Germans remain completely unaware that the enigma machine is gone.  Otherwise, the Germans will abandon its use.
Through a course of events including submarines catching on fire, going far beneath its depth capabilities, and continuous carpet bombings, Tyler is forcibly given his own command.  Will he have what it takes to be a submarine captain?  Will he be able to risk lives for the sake of the greater cause?
More bombs, more fires, more plummeting submarines and - yes - an opportunity to send a man to his death are soon to follow without surprise.  As an audience, we are asked to feel for the officers who are risking life and limb for truth, justice, and the American way.  It is an almost impossible feat with U-571 as the characters are simply used as plot devices for the film.  If the producers wanted to reach the success of Red October or Das Boot, they should have realised that it is the boat that is the plot device and it is the characters that provide the story - not the other way around.
The film fails as it is simply bland and unoriginal in its character development, or lack thereof, and its action sequences.  But more importantly, and more shamelessly, is that it rewrites history without embarrassment or concern.  Although it mentions in its end credits that this was a work of fiction, it still gives the impression that these events at least bordered on accuracy.  
The enigma machine did exist and was captured by the British forces.  The British were also able to board a submarine and steal an enigma code book.  And the British were eventually able to crack the enigma code.  Certainly, these events could be made into an exciting film, not just one which is merely watchable.