Lark Rise to Candleford is a BBC series based on a book by Flora Thompson.  The series were highly recommended to me by my husband who bought a complete set from Amazon, for me to watch it at my own pace and leisure and I must say it is an excellent show and I enjoyed every minute of it.  It had a peculiar effect of calming my nerves and leaving a pleasant feeling in me because the characters in the story were generous, understanding, compassionate, and firm when necessary. To my surprise, the screenplay did not have any violence or unnecessary sexual scenes.  A movie without sex and violence is rather rare these days.  Every evening I was eager to watch the next installment.  Most of the characters were serious about their obligations, performed their duties diligently and above all they respected each other.  There was a bond in the community and that is what impressed me the most. The writer of the series has taken a lot of effort to depict the late 19th century life style as realistically as possible.  Darcus Lane, who runs a post office, stands out as a role model and she is adorable.  Her very smile makes one feel a thrill of joy.
The story takes place at the end of 19th century when industrialization was on the verge of beginning a new era. Laura, who is the daughter of Emma and Roberts, narrates the story by writing daily events in her diary.  We are talking about the period 1880 to 1890 in England.  The agriculture is the main occupation of the inhabitants, income is limited, and many people live in poverty and others hand to mouth, Robert's family enjoys relatively a better standard of living because Robert is literate and holds the position of a very skillful mason.  He is the leader in the community and people respect him.  He feels the land- lords are exploiting the farmers by paying them low wages and believes in a kind of a socialistic system that would create a fair wage structure for all.
Laura is beautiful, has many likable qualities, loves her parents, and shows a lot of compassion for others. Her mother is very proud of her because Laura loves to read and write. Laura has a younger brother who is very serious for his age and wants to join the army or work on the farm.  Emma does not consider working on the farm an honorable profession and feels one cannot have a better living standard just by being a farmer.  Emma is tired of the hardships of life not having enough money to spend.
Darcus Lane is Emma's cousin, who has inherited a forge and other business from her relatively wealthy father, now deceased.  Darcus is poised, well- educated, practical in business matters and runs a post office in her home in Candleford.  During the period in which the story takes place, the government did not run post offices directly but rather subcontracted the postal functions to the private individuals.  The important rule to run a post office was the person must be unmarried and take an oath before a magistrate that there will be no delay in delivering letters or telegrams.
Darcus has employed as a postman, a tall and handsome fellow who promptly delivers the letters and fervently talks about his allegiance to queen Victoria.  His loyalty and dedication to his profession is admirable but at times looks very funny.
The village population was gradually growing and Darcus needed one more person to deliver the mail.  People working in the farm could not come to the post office to collect the mail.  For their sake, Darcus kept post office open in the late hours.  She wrote a letter to Emma and Robert asking that if they approve, she would like to have Laura work in the post office as her assistant.  Laura accepts the job and begins working happily in the post office. She lives in Darcus' home, has a room to herself and a comfortable bed.  Another member in the Darcus' household is Zilla, an elderly woman rather obese and slow moving, employed to clean and cook. One day while relaxing, she suddenly dies. Later, Darcus hires a young girl to whom she entrusts the job of cooking and other household chores.  The girl is ignorant and has no idea of how to cook. She is afraid if she does not learn her new job she will have to go back to her father from whom she has run away, because of his violent temper and his beating her. Darcus sympathizes and starts her with simple menial tasks.  The girl is thankful to Darcus, does her job as best as she can and is loyal to her.  Laura is also friendly with the girl and helps her to learn certain chores. The girl appears in some very funny scenes, shows up at odd moments, and says something stupid when Darcus is having a serious conversation with her clients.  Darcus would order her in her stern voice to go and clean the attic, meaning thereby, do not interrupt.  At every difficult, awkward moment, Darcus exhibits her calmness and composure.
Another important character in the story is Timothy, the local landlord and a magistrate who in the past dated Darcus but the latter did not reciprocate because she felt there was an economic disparity between the two and, therefore, their relationship would not succeed if they got married.  Later Timothy marries a beautiful woman but he still keeps visiting Darcus in the post office and other places regularly despite the fact she discourages such visits.
Occasionally business people come to Candleford to start a new business.  On one occasion, a businessman, who it turns out was brought up in the village of Lark Rise, comes to Candleford, and opens a hotel in the town. It later transpires that he has left a son in some other place.  Darcus goes there and brings him back to his father. The child is very attached to Darcus. He prefers to live with her than with his father.  While barely a young lad, his father decides to leave him with Darcus and then moves to another town.  Darcus later legally adopts and raises the child.
Finally, Darcus meets a man whom she has allowed to work in her forge. She falls in love with him and they get married.
Laura meets a journalist and she marries him.
The show has several other interesting and delightful characters, but to describe them will take a large space. I will, therefore, stop here.