I'm giving this film two stars simply because it was suppossed to address WWII and for the many big stars in the movie. Stars one will recognize are: John Wayne, Kirk Douglas, Patricia O'Neal,George Kennedy, Henry Fonda, Carrol O' Connor and more. Basically this movie seems to lack focus. I watched this movie wondering where it was going and trying to figure out what the general themes were. It's hard to figure out what this movie is really about because most of the ideas in the movie never quite have much of an impact. First, the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. It was unbelievable in how the characters in the movie are not surprised at all by the attack. Where was the shock? And there is very little of the attack. Battleships ar sunk in the harbor, all is lost and the film just glosses over all of this. The attack is over and done with before it really even developed. In the battle with the submarine John Wayne breaks his arm. I couldn't believe how FAST three months passed in this movie. In one scene he reports to his superior with a broken arm and then suddenly it is three months later and soon after the cast is off. And the movie is hard to follow because of the pacing and the lack of development. And it may be me but Patricia O'Neal just doesn't cut it at all as a love interest for John Wayne or for anyone. I see this slow talking homely nurse, smoking a cigarette and I feel just like getting away. A romance between these two suppossed battle tested adults just doesn't work at all. But of course this movie has the two adults jumping into the sack before John Wayne is shipped off on assignment. And this movie has Pat O'Neal pursuing John Wayne. She asked him out. She came to his house and initiated SEX. Sure, this sort of stuff happened but the times too were often a lot different in the 40's. As others have said the movie injects sixties attitudes into a 40's set movie. An independent woman pursues a man and initiates sex. That is more of a sixties theme than a 40's theme. And Kirk Douglas's character is just a cliche. Kirk plays a drinking, fighting navy man with an unfaithful wife who dies after having comitted adultry. Later Kirk relives his wife's unfaithfulness when he has a flashback with the young nurse. So Kirk rapes a young girl who then commits suicide. To redeem himself Kirk goes on an airborne reconosance mission which was a suicide mission to atone for the rape, because afterall he was headed to prison anyway. All of the island battle that was to take place with the Japanese is poorly developed. Other than the naval battle there was no fighting on the island. John Wayne loses first his son on a PT boat and then his own leg. Wayne awakes on a hospital ship to face his creepy love interest Pat O'Neal. One of Wayne's fellow officers or a superior says that Wayne "Is a hard man to kill".

Really, this is a poor WWII movie with some big stars who seem pretty bored with the script. Wayne particularly seems to be unipressed with his dialogue and the script, but even Wayne at his best could have not saved this hodge podge of ideas. Some of the main ideas of the movie were: the attack of Pearl Harbor, the adulterous wife, a father who never was a father to his son, a rape and two suicides, a jealous admiral who tries to take credit for another's work, a man with a disentegrating military career, a son who comes to respect his father as he matures as a man, teasing a man can lead to rape, some confusing island warfare, etc.

Some of the special effects are quite good as in the sinking ship with the gaping gash in the side. The car going off the cliff has a dummy that is on fire whose head hits the windshield a few times. This scene is really out of place in movie that wants to be an epic drama. The car scene is straight out of a bad B movie. A simple head on collision crash without a body on fire in the car would have sufficed. In a 40's movie the car would simply have plunged off the cliff on fire or exploding on the rocks below. This movie injects a b movie car crash that is simply out of tone to the rest of the movie.

All in all this is pretty lame and long movie, but two stars.