This edition is only for the most ardent Saturday Night Fever fans and completists. The film is at the top my list so naturally I was going to get this no matter what. And I recommend it to those fans only. For those fans, you will get interview excerpts from actors who played the likes of Mr. Fusco, Father Frank Jr., Bobby C., Doreen, delicious deejay Monti. It's the first time I saw Barry Miller(Bobby C.) talk about his time working with Travolta. (Maybe he needed the money) It is nice to see how these people look after all these years. Returning from previous edition for more recollections are actors who played Double J, Joey, Annette, Stephanie. Missing in addition to Travolta are actors who played mama and papa Manero, Gus, as well as Tony's sister which would have been nice to see. Back to Bay Ridge segment with Joseph Cali(Joey) was nice but kind of short. The effort to visit some of the locations were very casual indeed. He visits Pete's Dance studio and when he knocks and no one answers he says "Oh well" and strolls on without returning later. Barry Gibb and Robin Gibb return to share there experience working on the soundtrack. I always thought Maurice was the mouthpiece for the Bee Gees who did very well mixing humor when talking about his experience working on the music for the film. With his death, that role is delegated to Robin who is insightful but pretty much always stays serious. He even says something like "It is the music that makes the film." I thought for some reason Barry's remarks about the whole thing was rather bland and boring...must be the old age. For all the time Stigwood and others spent talking about the brilliance of the writing and the story, I wanted to see Nik Cohn(writer for the original story 'Tribal Rites of the Saturday Night' which the film is based on) and Norman Wexler(screenwriter of Saturday Night Fever)give their thoughts on the film and the phenomenon...maybe they are dead and not available. I really wished they included the original theatrical trailer in this DVD because even though I have seen the film over 50 times, I have never seen the trailer! Hope this helps.