_Night Watch_  (_Nochnoi Dozor_) is a bizarre Russian film based on a series of novels which features an epic confrontation between the forces of Light and those of Darkness.  Apparently throughout history there have always been "Others", those possessed with supernatural powers (vampires, witches, shapeshifters), who must choose to fight on the side of Light or the side of Darkness.  However, at one point in time a confrontation occurred between these two forces in which armies of Light and Dark led by Generals Gesen and Zavulon fought on a bridge.  However, in order to prevent the complete destruction of all their forces the generals agreed on a truce.  Thus was born the "night watch" (the watch over the forces of darkness in the night by the forces of light) and the "day watch" (the watch over the forces of light in the day by the forces of darkness) to assure that all laws were followed by the Others and that the truce was not broken.  It is during a confrontation between these two forces that the hero Anton makes his appearance, is revealed as an Other, and chooses the side of Light.  Apparently, Anton had sought the services of a witch to bring his girlfriend back to him and to cause her to miscarry with another man's child; however, at just the moment she is casting her hex upon the child the "night watch" appears.  The movie features a dark atmosphere in which Anton must attempt to prevent a vampiress (whose vampire boyfriend he has killed) from sucking the blood of a young boy.  The movie also reveals an ancient curse placed upon a girl, Svetlana, which has caused a vortex to appear drawing all in her path to their destruction.  Ultimately however, the forces of Light must again confront the forces of Dark in an apocalyptic battle in which the chosen Other must choose between Light and Dark.  The movie is certainly strange and while the dubbing into English may appear cheesey, it nonetheless is highly entertaining.  For an apocalyptic Russian film with an eerie atmosphere of supernatural strangeness give it a try and you are sure to enjoy.