I was a teenager when the first Star Wars came out and like many teenagers at that time I immediately became very interested in Sci-fi.

I was somewhat interested in science fiction before Star Wars because after all we did have the original Star Trek series which was quite good and some cool movies like the first Planet of the Apes, but those were exceptions (in my opinion at the time) to the rule that most Sci-fi was just crap particularly in the execution (I now believe that most Sci-fi films today are still crap but they sure look great).

This was before even video tape and movie rentals and being young I did not have control over what we watched on TV so I had only caught slight pieces of some movie that had me transfixed even though I only caught snatches of it here and there. That movie was of course 2001: A Space Odyssey.

So along came Star Wars and suddenly Sci-Fi became epic, not just in story but in execution. Like many teenage boys I ran to the bookstore where I began gobbling whatever science fiction books a Puerto Rican kid from the projects in The Bronx could afford. I don't remember the first Science Fiction book that I bought post Star Wars but I clearly remember that the second book was Philip K. Dick's The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, which if you don't know bears no resemblence to Star Wars or any action book/film it's hard to believe they're in the same genre (generally speaking).

Looking back later in life, after reading it again as an adult, I realized that The Three Stigmata Of Palmer Eldritch was way too advanced for a person at that young age but in my very young person's point of view I still thought it was awesome even if it didn't have lasers battles and dogfights and even though I still enjoy sci-fi themed action films, sci-fi books are a different matter and The Three Stigmata Of Palmer Eldritch is probably the reason why.

Even as I write this it only dawns on me now that The Three Stigmata Of Palmer Eldritch can be actually be enjoyed by serious minded adults plumbing it for the meaning in its metaphors and teenagers who may be able to intuit deeper meaning amidst the wild and crazy events that take place between its covers.

The Three Stigmata Of Palmer Eldritch also started me on the path to becoming a fan of Philip K. Dick and I'm proud to be able to boast that I got there before all the Johnnies-come-lately that stormed the house after Blade Runner. I've read nearly all of the novels and the original five volume collection of short stories as well as the excellent biography by Lawrence Sutin: Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick. But that was years ago; my memory is not what it once was so I plan to start all over again.

I wish The Gospel According to Philip K. Dick was a better biography, actually I wish it was a great biography because that's what Philip K. Dick deserves.

The effectiveness of a biography on an artist or author, as far as capturing the essence of its subject, can be judged by whether someone who has little to no knowledge of the subject at the very least will have their interest piqued, and at most  if they're filled with a desire to explore their work.

Philip K. Dick was a paranoid drug user who sometimes could not distinguish fantasy from reality, let drug using teenagers hang out at his house and oh he wrote some books that were kinda cool and hey, one of them was made into Blade Runner.

He also lied so he can get into a clinic for drug abusers in Canada while trying to hide from drug dealers to whom he owed money.

That's what I learned from The Gospel According to Philip K. Dick.

There is precious little biography in this biography as a decent chunk of time is wasted with bad and slow animation of a typewriter tapping out interesting gems of information such as how Philip K. Dick did not see much success while he was alive which although true, just furthers the image of him as a loser.

Several of his major works are not even mentioned such as The Man in the High Castle. You know the one that earned him a Hugo award and is often cited as one of the first examples of alternate history novels, the one where the Axis powers win WWII, the one he wrote with the aid of the I-Ching (if that doesn't send shivers down your spine I don't know what will).

Now, I also happen to be a fan of the late Robert Anton Wilson who was interviewed for this film and usually when making a film such as this, only a small amount of footage is used from the interviews and I find it hard to believe that Robert Anton Wilson or any of the interviewees appearing in this mess failed to give deeper meaning to Philip K. Dick and his works. It's almost as if the filmmakers were afraid that potential viewers would fail to appreciate the full depth of Philip K. Dick's life, works and mind. Of course some effort is made in that direction but it's lost in a desert of the colorful characterizations I noted above. So instead we get lousy animation over snippets of Philip K Dick talking about some of his works, some of which is not very clear partially because of the sound quality and partially because of the ever present bad synth music, that as I remember, never ceases.

We're also treated to interviews with some nice young men who run Philip K. Dick websites and personally I have to believe that if you're the type who will go through the trouble of creating and maintaining a web site dedicated to Philip K. Dick that you are probably intelligent and deep, but in this film these guys just come off as goofy fan boys.
The only good thing I got from this film was of personal interest as Philip K. Dick himself refers to The Three Stigmata Of Palmer Eldritch as a "...book so extraordinary that it may have no peer..."... an insane book that was not about insanity, it was insanity." I don't know what that says about me but I have a vague feeling that it's positive, but if all you know about Philip K. Dick was from this movie you'd have a different opinion and I couldn't fault you for that.

I fully understand that by calling the film The Gospel of Philip K Dick the filmmakers are going to dwell mostly on the pink laser incident (oh, just look it up) and the works that resulted from that experience but by failing to balance the film with a more complete and meaningful biography they render the subject they love so much down to an oversized bear of a man in need of a serious intervention, and all this after opening the film with Robert Anton Wilson comparing him to James Joyce, whom Robert Anton Wilson admired.

I would hate to see how these guys handled a writer they hated.

Opening the film with a nod to the opening of Blade Runner was just pathetically lame but I can't get the image out of my head of the filmmakers high fiving themselves over its cleverness.

Yeah, it comes across as that type of film.