I will dispense with the standard plot synopsis and, for the most part, a review of this movie.  14 years later, most of us looking at a special edition "Basic Instinct" DVD already like it enough to at least show interest in possibly buying this.  My question was, is it worth it to replace my old "Basic Instinct" DVD with a new one?

By my count this is the 4th DVD transfer of this film (there was a bare-bones DVD of the theatrical release, then a special edition with extras, then the unrated directors cut special edition with the same extras (that one had the dumb "ice pick box," but was eventually, and is now, available in a standard box whose cover art looks just like all the other releases (including the original VHS release):  All white box, torso-and-up shot of Stone and Douglas whith her clawing his back), and now this one that still retains that same image of the stars, but now it is inside the lettering of the title).

I mention this for two reasons.

The first may not matter much to amazon and other on-line shoppers, but here's what happened to me while walking around Best Buy today:  I already owned the "bare-bones" version (I picked it up for 5 bucks brand new at least 5 years ago, so this has never been a movie one needed to drop a lot on to own), but I wanted the unrated director's cut I saw advertised in the Best Buy weekend circular.  I picked it up off the shelf and saw there was the older '02 special edition release right next to it for $5.99.  I was not crazy about spending $15 (not that that is a terrible price, mind you) on a movie I already owned so I decided to go with the '02 version (I'll get to the comparison between the two in a moment - that is reason #2).  I got home and found out it was the special edition alright, but it was the original theatrical version.  It had extras and such, but the point of replacing the thing in the first place was to get the director's cut.  So I went back to Best Buy and, sure enough, because the boxes look the same except for a tiny-worded "director's cut" in the bottom corner, I grabbed the wrong one.  The director's cut was there and it to was also only $5.99 (and because of some additional sale I was unaware of it rang up as something like $4.40).  So BE CAREFULl WHEN SELECTING A VERSION OF THE FILM. The ice-pick box, dumb as it looked on the DVD shelf, seems to be gone so there is no easy way to tell all these apart.  You gotta do a little reading.  "Special Edition" doesn't automaticly mean "director's cut." (Especially for a DVD that has had as many similar - and similar looking - releases as this one.)

That's my first point.  The second is to inform you that, in comparing this new version "special edition director's cut" with the $5 version I got, the only difference, besides the newly arranged cover art, is that there is an interview and an introduction by Sharon Stone.  That's it.  Other than that, it has the same bonuses, commentaries, etc.  And that is said if that even matters to you in the first place.  If you just want the movie, there is no reason to opt for this new, more expensice release; or if you already have the director's cut, replace it with this one - unless you really want to hear from Sharon Stone (that's her now, mind you, not 1992 - I'm just sayin'...)

So why was this made then?  "Basic Instinct 2" hits theatres in a few weeks. I'll reserve judgment on that move until I see it, but I can judge this as a cash grab.  I'm not angry though.  "Basic Instinct" is hardly the first film to pull this stunt and I almost wish that some of the movies I really loved had just one "special edition" or update from its first DVD incarnation, not to mention 4 or more.  I would just hope there would be something that sets them apart from the previous version.

That's not the case here.

* One quick observation I could not resisit mentioning:  It is ironic that a movie as notorious for its graphic sex and violence as "Basic Instinct" that the Amazon info lists its rating as simply "Unrated for drug use and laguage."  :)