9 is a computer-animated fable that takes place after an apocalypse has apparently destroyed every living plant and animal on the face of the Earth, including all of humanity. The only "living" entities on the planet are nine rag doll things, created by a dying scientist in an attempt to ensure that life will continue. Each doll has a hand-written number on its back, in the order they were created. To the last one, 9, he has left instructions and a special device that, he hopes, can restore life to the planet. But he dies before he can give 9 the instructions on what he's supposed to do next...

And so 9 comes to life in a dead world, his first sight the dead scientist's body lying on the floor in front of him. Soon, he meets up with the other eight rag doll things that were brought to live by the scientist as well. Who are being chased and captured by some bizarre robot that has the skull of a dog for a head. And there's this little green disk thing that glows with these odd symbols and -

You know, I'll just stop right there with the plot summary, because it doesn't matter. 9 is quite enjoyable when taken at the level of "Wow! Does this look cool!!" But taken on the level of narrative or characters or plot - no way, man. Just forget it. 9 is probably the best-looking film I've seen in a long time that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. I'm actually serious when I say it's fun to watch - I certainly watched the whole movie, and didn't feel bored or cheated at all. But it really is just sort of a moving art piece.

The set design and artwork on 9 is stunning. The look of the devastated alternative steampunk future world is beautifully desolate. The odd creations concocted by the Brain Machine to go chase and... uh... kill, I guess... the rag dolls are a joy to watch. But when the movie was over, I thought "Huh. That would've made a really great short film".

And lo and behold, a look at the extras on the disk reveal that, in fact, 9 was a short animated film originally, and was later expanded into a full-length feature. The original short film is included here as well. I watched the short. It had everything that was cool in the feature, without the meaningless plot and expensive voiceover actors. I can see immediately how it must've impressed the hell out of anyone who saw it.

But. For the life of me, I can't understand why anyone wanted to turn such an excellent little short work into a puzzling feature length film. I started putting together possible scenarios in my head: Did the studio want the talents of creator Shane Acker, but the only way to get him was to agree to make a feature-length version of his short? Did he have an even stranger idea that they turned down in lieu of this one? Did they look at District 9 and say "Hey! We should take some other science fiction short film and turn it into a feature too!" Did they approve the entire concept while stoned? Inquiring minds want to know!

In the final analysis, I'd say that 9 is a odd but artistic experimental film that will probably appeal to die-hard science fiction fans and/or animation buffs only.