I've watched over a dozen documentaries and movies about the Nanjing massacre, and I've read several authoritative sources. Therefore, I looked forward to seeing this film, and was shocked at how dreadfully boring it was. I don''t care how many awards he's won; Chuan Lu is a terrible director who has no idea how to tell a story. The Rape of Nanking is an incredible story, and the atrocities which took place over a 6 weeks period, basically tells itself. But in this case, he completely mangled the story. All he had to do was dramatize actual events, and show us what happened from the perspective of the victims and the perpetrators. But noooo. Chuan Lu decided to ignore historical fact, and to make up his own story, and make up characters who did not exist, and events which did not happen and to focus on the trivial and insipid.  Even worse, he basically  avoided any presentation of the incredible atrocities which took place. Fact:  over a six week period hundreds of thousands of Chinese and Chinese soldiers were subjected to incredible horrors:  being burned alive, bayoneted to death, buried alive, their heads cut off, raped to death, pregnant women cut open and their babies paraded on the end of a sword. But you wouldn't know it from Chuan Lu's version of history. Instead, all of this is compacted into about 60 seconds. Then, Chuna Lu (who is both the writer and director) decides to make up his own story which just meanders aimlessly and has almost nothing to do with what took place. Case in point: John Rabe was one of the only heroes of Nanking, and engaged in numerous acts of bravery, and is responsible for saving tens of thousands of Chinese--Instead, Chung Lu turns Rabe into a bumbling fool and coward who abandons the Chinese. The director/writer, Chung Lu, should be slapped across the face for doing this. Then there is the scene where Japanese soldiers are threatening Rabe and the Safety Zone if 100 women do not volunteer to become comfort women (prostitutes). Again, Rabe is presented as a bumbling cowardly fool. Didn't happen.  In actual fact, the Japanese offered to pay Chinese prostitutes to return to their work as prostitutes, but serving the Japanese. Ms. Vautrin, an old maid school teacher who was supervising/protecting a large group of women in the Safety Zone, was shocked and outraged and insisted  that no Chinese woman would consent to working as a prostitute.  Instead, several dozen Chinese women, former prostitutes, eagerly accepted the opportunity to get back to work, and accompanied the Japanese willingly--this according to John Rabe's diary. The director, Chung Lu, obviously has no interest in telling an accurate, honest story.

Everything about this film rates a zero. In addition to being boring and inaccurate, here are some other major problems: . 1) its filmed in black and white which made it very difficult to distinguish some of the central characters as they were dressed similar and in clothing which obscured their identity; e.g. Japanese soldiers looked like Chinese soldiers, Japanese soldiers with their identical hats and uniforms looked identical, Chinese dressed in rags looked very similar. 2) There is no narrative, no central focus, no central POV, no main character. 3) It is depressingly slow paced. 4) Everything about the film meanders, so it is difficult to tell who is who, what is going on, what they are intending, what just happened or will happen or why. 5). Because of the uniforms, hats, and the black and white filming, it was near impossible to distinguish between the "good guy" Japanese officer, and the "bad guy" Japanese officer (neither of whom actually existed).6) None of the characters are fleshed out or given any personality,  and we know nothing about them and so we have no reason to like, hate, feel sympathy, or understand what they are experiencing. In fact, the movie never focuses on any of these characters and instead just jumps around with no logic behind the story telling 7) The acting is BAD and one dimensional. 8) The photography was childish; they used a handheld camera for many of the scenes--as if this was shot on a low budget (when in fact he spent 20 million making this garbage.

The Rape of Nanking is a shocking, horrific, nightmarish story. Amazingly, this film managed to make it boring.