Am a bit surprised at how many negative reviews there are for this movie.  No, it isn't Star Wars and it's not a big action thriller.  Rather it's a movie with a message--that we need to protect at all costs the things that are really important (the last existing forests in the world in this case).  Other than another little known Bruce Dern movie (Smile), I think this is  his best performance.  Frankly I cringe when I see or hear Bruce Dern, so I think it says a lot for his ability as an actor to pull this off successfully.  I really don't like him, but this is still a favorite movie of mine.  You can't hate the character he plays in this movie because he is doing something terribly important (saving the last forests), but you don't like him either because he is fanatic and ends up killing to save the forests.  I thought the music was great in this movie; very beautiful and haunting.  Some didn't like it because of Joan Baez.  I never liked her politics, but her voice is one of the most beautiful voices of that era.  If I was stranded on a desert island with only one movie to watch, I sincerely hope that it would be this one.  It is not that entertaining to younger folks raised on the computer-generated special effects found in the better science fiction movies.  It will never measure up to something like the Matrix or any of the Star Wars movies, but it is still a hauntingly beautiful movie with special effects that are good enough to keep you interested.  As most other reviewers have said the robots are charming.  Don't listen to the bad reviews; decide for yourself.  Even if you don't like the movie overall, you'll find something enjoyable here.  The somewhat surprise ending is very sad, so if you want an upbeat movie, this is not the one for you, but it couldn't end any other way, really.  This one gives me a tear in the eye and lump in the throat at the end every time I see it.  A little campy and silly, but overall a real gem of a movie.  Probably had more impact and was more impressive at the time it first came out, than now.