This film has already been released here in Colombia, which is weird since usually films arrive here late rather than before they are released in U.S.A. I saw two days ago and well, I have a things to say to the audiences from the states. You could say this film is a mixture between Naked Gun, Bean and Austin Powers. One thing I found negative about it is that it copies jokes from various comedies, I don't want to be a spoiler so I won't say which, but some of the jokes will seem very familiar. But the good thing about it is that is not a waste of a film, and Rowan Atkinson proves that he can also be funny talking. I think he did quite well as the other James Bond spoof. He is not as exagerated as Mike Myers, so this film is different. And he managed to stay away from the Bean persona, something I was afraid of. The plot is as simple as Bond plots are today, only with various comedy twists. Johnny English starts as Monneypenny, he is just a in this particular film, MI7 clerk, until every agent is wiped off(funny situation that will not be revealed here) so he has to take on the biggest mission that was pending, which involves the crown jewels and a french tycoon in the sort of Goldfinger played by John Malkovich, who did his best to perform the character with dignity, and I think he escapes from stinking by the fingernails. The film is carried out just like Bond movies, the agent meets the girl, the villan, something happens, he gets close to something, he fails, he gets close to the girl, the bad guy almost makes it, but fails and gets busted, endind with the agent and the girl. Very straightforward, but every situation is filled not to the brim, which I think was the smart thing to do, with funny situations. And although many of the jokes are rip-offs, Atkinson managed to make them his own. The film is very short, but feels longer, I don't know why. The end is rather stupid, but I admit that it stirrs laughter, not because of the situation but because you can't help but crack up with Atkinson's face. I don't think many people will like, unlike the Bean skits and the film, I think some will find it stupid and unnecessary, but nevertheless, I think is a fun movie, and if somehow people get tired of or don't want to see either Matrix Reloaded, or Hulk, or X2, or T3, or any of the other box-office killers, try to tke about and hour and twenty minutes to see a silly but funny little comedy that spoofs James Bond. I don't think it will be a hit, and if it is, oh the humanity, because it's far from being great, but it's worth the money, specially in summer vacation when there is basically "nothing" to do. See all of the other summer pop corn movies before this one, otherwise you will probably hate it beacuse you could have seen something else. But it won't be a total waste of money, you will laugh because it's not at all a stupid teen flick with disgusting sexual situations and fluids, sounds and smells. It has it it's own very silly and simple way, integrity and dignity, it's hard to find, but it is there. One star for Atkinson's performance, the other for being balance in it's jokes, the other because it doesn't fall apart like many comedies, in stupidity and desperate necesity for a laugh, and the last one because it basically does not totaly stink.