If you have read the previous reviews, you can easily see that this movie has been debated greatly. Some thought it excellent, while others liked it and still yet, some who deemed it "trash." 
Some seem to think that Angelina Jolie (Lara Croft) was too sultry and self-assured, or didn't seem to show much emotion. For those that have played the game, Lara Croft is depicted just that way. In the video games, Lara Croft doesn't get scared too easily, or often at that. Not that I think it's right for her to seem so tough, just that it stayed true to the video game. 
Some think that Jolie's clothes were too skimpy. I understand where this is coming from and I would be just the one to object to a skimpy outfit, but Jolie's wardrobe was very well done. Her outfits were VERY much like that of the games. 
Others stated that they thought Lara Croft was depicted as invincible. I find some truth to that, but Lara Croft is wounded in the movie. She does bleed, she's not Superwoman.
Still yet, some seemed to think that the plot was too weak. I, myself, found it rather well done. Some stated that the artifact she was searching for should have been more recognizable to the average person. Yes, this could have been done, but, again, returning to the video game, the artifacts that Lara is usually after are not well known, but they all hold some great power. (Much like in the movie)
Overall, I think that, for a game adaptation, this was VERY well done. It WASN'T another underdeveloped Street Fighter. We follow Lara Croft to find a special triangular articfact that holds the mystery of time travel. A good self conflict happens when Lara must decide whether to use the artifact to find out what happened to her father. I found the plot was deepened by the mysterious disappearance of her father and, returning to her "lack of emotion," we see that Lara is not always sultry and tough. Her father seems to be her soft spot. Special effects were wonderful and VERY enjoyable.
I found that casting was very well done. Angelina Jolie made for a perfect Lara Croft. As for doing ALL her own stunt, I found myself in awe with some of the extremely challenging motorcycle stunts as well as the bungee roping. I found the casting of Lara Croft's father, perfect. Using Angelina Jolie's own father, John Voight, to play her character's father made for perfect scene chemistry. As for Lara' enemy, talk about good. I hate to say that I'm not sure of the actor's name because he did such a good job. He was so devious. I think that a very enjoyable scene is the Croft Mansion break in, but if you haven't seen the movie, I'll let you see it for yourself. This movie has a little of everything and would be enjoyable to men and women. There is loads of action, adventure to different countries (Cambodia, Britain, Russia), drama, comedy, and even a bit of subtle romance, with Lara Croft's ironic attitude and sarcasm as well as her "sidekick's," if you will, goofiness. BOTTOM LINE: Very enjoyable and recommended.