Ok, there may be spoilers below.

Here is the movie, Witherspoons characters friend talks her into joining one of those dating sites.  She wants to get off the site but sees a guy on there that she thinks is good looking.  The guy works for the government.  Him and his friend go around taking out bad guys and saving the world.  So, the guy tells his friend he joined the site and is going on a date.  His friend and him decide that they will both go so the other can be his wing man.  But, his friend starts liking the girl as well.  Which one will be able to get the girl in the end?

That's it, the entire store.  Now I know that most stories sound simple but have things from A - B that make you interested.  This is not one of those movies.  These guys have very important jobs in the government, yet they act like two children when it comes to this girl.  The one does not date much, but the other says he always has dates.  So why then is he so dispirit?  They decide they will both date her and let her choose.  They set ground rules.  The use government equipment and men to help spy.  One scene has one of the guys following the other with one of those drone things that fly's in the air.  The other guy (while in the passenger seat of a moving car) pulls out his gun and shoots down the drone.  Ok, how much do those things cost?  Are you telling me the guy can just shoot one down and get in no trouble?  In another scene the guy throws a knife directly at his friends head.  Nothing seemed real during this movie.  These guys would have gotten in so much trouble for doing any of the number of things they did.  Another thing that bothered me and my mom as well, there were never any other people in the office with the two guys.  There were desks, but not one other soul.

It was such a dumb movie.  It cost $5.99 to rent of FIOS, I think it was a waste of money.  We laughed at parts, but the entire time I was thinking to myself about how bad it was.  If you want to buy this movie, rent it.  You will thank me later.