James Garner, this actor is the classiest and most realistic PI we came to know as Jim Rockford. The way he could capture the cast and create the very likeable character that was welcome in our living rooms for the better part of the seventies.

He was so believable as the always struggling to find the truth. He made us resolve that the only reason he investigated the case was because he cared, not so much about the victim, or the suspect, it was because no one else could solve it. He cared about doing something others had failed to do, or would fail to do. No one else was available or willing, so Jim got the call. He'll doing, he's not happy about it though, and it won't be cheap either, it's $200.00 a day...plus expenses!

Jim is not too cool, he's not too smart he's not too cocky, that makes him very real, and very believable. It makes the show very entertaining, even today, 31 years later. Jim never tried to be more than he could carry, just enough. Just enough of the real man (James Garner) to sell the character of Rockford. He let his co-stars shine too, he never stole the show, of showed them up, always giving them equal play time and play type. This made the whole chemistry of the show incredible, it made it last and no matter the story it was entertaining to watch.

I'm so glad I haven't been able to see these episodes in so long, it really makes watching this DVD now much more special. I'll take my time watching them, maybe one ever week to two weeks, maybe skipping some over summer, just to make it last, just to savor every scene, every interaction of characters.

What a gem this is! Well worth the wait. I only have two tv season series on DVD, Little House on the Prairie (1,2,3) and now I jsut bought this, season one. I gotta tell ya, I can't wait to see the release of the other seasons comin' up. This is going to be a great trip down memory lane again, thanks so much Jim, James, for making this show so good, so personal, so classy!! Like you could do it any other way?