If you sense an overly-critical tone in my review it's due to frustration. This had all the potential for ranking right up there with Dangerous Liaisons in my book. However, I couldn't help but notice the hint of irritating pretentiousness with the film in general... and what was the deal with Kidman's nose (extreme and annoying). Her performance was Oscar-worthy but the nose was an overdone and unnecessary distraction. Streep was good... though not outstanding (despite her lame melodramatic character who I could've cared less about). Until the kiss, I honestly spent part of the movie thinking Julianne Moore's character was umm... shall we say... "mentally challenged"? Considering her character's issues I'm not quite sure if that qualifies as a good or bad performance. In the case of all 3 women, I failed to grasp the reason for all of the self-absorbed suicidal angst.
In a situation like this, the real problem usually isn't with any of the aforementioned. Cinematic near perfection could've been achieved here. I've not read the source material but I felt like the screenplay may've missed some important theme(s) or failed in its attempt to sufficiently make the "tie-in" of the characters meaningful. There were tie-ins however. AND HOW! That "Mrs. Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself" thing that spanned all three storylines had all the subtlety of a train wreck. Perhaps instead of throwing the audience that anvil they should've spent more time on character development... and I'd assume that this IS supposed to be a character-driven film. The leads didn't seem legit, especially Laura (how could she leave such a beautiful son that, clearly, loved her so dearly). Possible I'm sure but they didn't develop her enough to make it credible. As a woman who loves women, it should've been relatively easy relating to or caring about them.  The movie stayed in "misery mode" too much for my tastes without enough character development to really explain the misery. Instead I found myself either loathing them or occasionally thinking "the acting's great but who cares?".
There was something else that I'm not quite sure of that disturbed me deeply about this film... IT'S INTENT.  Some of the messages and portrayals in the film were questionable at best and unacceptable at worst.  All 3 women were portrayed as oppressed and the oppression is ended only by some form of flight, abandonment (of devoted husbands and CHILDREN) or by relationships being severed through suicide.  Husbands are portrayed as pathetic one-dimensional ball-n-chains. (Male-bashing in a lesbian flick is a cheap shot) The only enduring relationship is Clarissa's lesbian relationship.  In the two scenes where the wives are busy "feeling up" neighbors and sisters, oddly enough a child is in the background silently watching the entire episode.  What's that all about?  In one of the final scenes with Clarissa the film actually attempts to validate Laura's self-serving abandonment of her own children.  "That was death. I chose life".  That was the moment when I wanted to nuke the film.  
Overall I gave it 3 stars. The photography, direction, art direction and acting definitely made the difference. The score's presence, or lack of, had its moments. I also thoroughly enjoyed Toni Collette (always hot), Stephen Dillane (the train depot scene was perhaps the film's best), Allison Janney (remarkably sexy) and Claire Danes (remarkably good)? All actors/actresses carried their roles extremely well. The exceptions were Ed Harris (his appearance was Oscar-worthy as an aids victim but his peformance was so pathetically over-the-top, I wanted to push him out of the window myself) and Laura's husband, who was so flaccid and one-dimensional that he was more like a caricature. I wasn't exactly sure if Laura was trying to kill herself because of the "unhappy existence/sexuality thing" or just to get away from him.
Though I noted the limitations of the screenplay earlier I must admit that there were some truly exceptional moments which I enjoyed. This type of film can walk a fine line between brilliant and unbearable (in this case it's closer to brilliant).