The directors define their job as storytelling. That's what my review will be about.
  I first watched this movie when I was at Mathilda's age so it was a great timing so I could communicate with the character while watching the movie. Now, at the age of 20, I bought the DVD with additional footage and watched the movie again with a whole different eye. I won't write anything about the story. I thought the story was good enough for an american movie. Still I think so. The acting was topnotch, especially Natalie Portman. When you watch a child actor for the first time in a movie, you measure his/her acting realated to the age. You say "Good for a child". But Natalie plays like she's a professional actress doing this for a long time, which doubles the success of the movie. Because mostly, if there's a child actor in the movie, you dislike it because you dislike the child's acting.
  So, there are great actors/actresses, there's a good plot, there's great ending, which is 50% of any movie I think, and there's great score by Eric Serra. (There's isolated score in the DVD for soundtrack fans like me)
  But there are some glitches related to the "storytelling". My favorite director is Robert Zemeckis because I like the way he tells his story. Steven Spielberg and James Cameron are also great storytellers, also Lucas. Besson is also good but he's a little bit light.
  If you watched Fight Club, you'll understand what I mean. There are several ways to tell stories. One is "Fight Club" style I think. There's no logic in what you see but there's logic in the plot. One is Zemeckis Style. He tells really seriously his stories, you don't see anything which you cannot see. But he does with a great magic.
  Some directors (weak ones) can't catch any of the two spirits I mentioned above. Besson, I think is between being Zemeckis and weak. There are incredibly great moments in the movie, especially the final. But there are some freebee editing and storytelling thoroughout the movie, so it makes the movie 4 stars instead of 5. But again, it's one of the best movies made in "Hollywood" so far because it's real, even though it's a bit heroic. The love though, is not so much believable because Matilda is too young. But hey, I'm not from America, and I'm not a girl. Still, it doubts me if Matilda can really fall in love with Leon.
  So, you know the movie, buy this edition and get the real movie not the censored one.