I wrote a review about 'Mystery Men' in 2001, when I had only seen it once and it was one of my first reviews, and it was three lines long. Since then, I have literally seen it again hundreds of times, and wrote over a hundred more reviews, so why do I like this movie so much?
It doesn't have much of a storyline, but that's not what they concentrated the movie on, they concentrated it on st&uacute;pid comedy, d&uacute;mb quotes and unique charecters. Basically, what happened was that these three w&aacute;nnabe superheroes that live in Champion City, but there is already another superhero, 'Captain Amazing' who is actually millionaire, 'Lance Hunt' in disguise. When he goes missing the Mystery Men have to try and save him, and save the world.
The comedy was very l&aacute;me, and only some people don't find it funny, but some, like me, find it hilarious. I know four other people who have seen this movie, and only one of them liked it. I think it is just too st&uacute;pid for most people.
The charecters were the best part about the movie, and had nine main charecters. First, there was Mr. Furious (Ben Stiller: Zoolander, The Ben Stiller Show) whose secret power was being incredibly furious. The Blue Raja (Hank Azaria: The Simpsons) had a secret power of throwing forks at people. The Shoveller (William H. Macy: Jurassic Park III) had a secret power of hitting people with a shovel. They were the three original charecters, but after recruiting, they first got The Spleen (Paul Ruebens: Dr Dolittle [voice]) and his secret power was to fart. The next recruit was The Invisible Boy (Kel Mitchell: Kenan & Kel), who could only turn invisible when no-one's watching him, and becomes invisible again when he looks at himself. Carol The Bowler's (Janeane Garofalo: The Ben Stiller Show) secret power is to throw bowling balls at people, and finally, and probably my favourite of the superheroes was The Sphinx (Wes Studi) whose power is to be 'terribly mysterious'. The other two main charecters weren't part of the other group. Captain Amazing (Greg Kinnear: You've Got Mail) is the famous superhero, and Cassanova Frankenstein (Geoffery Rush: Shakespeare In Love) is the supervillain who has just been released from a nut house. Other charecters include Monica the Waitress (Claire Forlani) and Dr. A Heller (Tom Waits).
The DVD version of the film offers these extras: Spotlight on Location, Directors Commentary, Deleted Scene, The Origin of the Comic, Theatrical Trailer, Music Highlights, Interactive DVD, Production Notes and Cast & Filmmaker's Notes. 
The Directors Commentary is basically a version of the film with the normal sound dulled down a little with the Director of the film, Kinka Usher, saying what they were trying to achieve with the scene. The Deleted Scenes are what you might expect, these are those scenes edited out. I feel with these scenes in the film it would have made a lot more sense, oh well the editor knows best I guess! 
I would say that I wouldn't buy the DVD version of the film just for the extras, but at the time I couldn't actually find a video version of Mystery Men. But I am sure that they must have released a copy on Video Tape. 
The special effects in this film are great. The most fun special effect I think was the Tornado in a Can non-lethal weapon. This managed to lift the person off the ground and land them on a car! 
Hope this review helps,
Mr. Gospel