am 36 years old and I never saw this movie until this year..
I have to say that I thought it was FANTASTIC!! I have a 3 1/2 year old and she loved it !!
The actors did a Great job!! especially Lesley Anne warren who in my opinion is Cinderella... no hype or overdoing it, she did the part simply and classy, taking her scenes beyond what most actresses would do. (you really feel sorry for cinderella with all the amount of neglect she gets,I enjoyed the fact that she tries to remain good natured and happy spirited with the situations that were given to her). Beautiful singing voice and a great dancer! ("In my own little corner", "Impossible","A lovely night" are wonderful songs).
. Her together with the prince were a match made in HEAVEN!, BRAVO to the both of them!! they look, act and sing VERY well and speaking of Stuart Damon....(where do I start) He is SO HANDSOME in this movie my jaw dropped!! I thought he was very humorous in many scenes,(He new what he was looking for in a woman and test ran all the maidens at the ball, maybe he was a little harsh with the step- sisters but he had an idea of who wanted him for her "prize"). . His singing voice is Excellent (especially with his songs "loneliness of evening", "10 minutes ago" and "do I love you because your beautiful". I loved how he would look at her especially at the ball when he saw her at the top of the stairs(one will never forget that gaze along with the silence that followed as they walked toward each other...aaaaah!)and the end when he realized that this poor gal was his true love, and when he tried the slipper on her, My gosh where did they find him! -A GREAT CHOICE OF A MAN FOR THE PRINCE.
The rest of the cast is great!... Pat Carol was quite funny as Prunella especially at the ballroom,and when the prince tried on her slipper!) she has alot of humor (especially her little laugh) and with her wicked sister they make quite a pair( I thought the sisters were supposed to be Anastasia and druzella??) Unfortunately Walter pigeon and Ginger Rodgers didn't have enough "Air time"(I thought) but made a grand King and Queen when they were shown. Jo van fleet's version of the wicked stepmother was very interesting (she really does not like cinderella) and the interplay between her and Cinderella was very good, her facial expressions are priceless, you have to pause your vcr and have a good laugh!!. Celeste Holmes was a very convincing Fairy god mother(a very silly one)her singing voice was good.
The sets/ special effects are totally fake but you tend to overlook that and concentrate on the story. The movie rolls right along ,(no time for boredom). There are parts in the original "Cinderella" children's book/film (the WALT DISNEY version) that are not shown in this film (examples: the mice that help Cinderella, her trying on the dress the mice made for her and having it ripped by the stepsisters, and getting helped at the end to get out of her room to try on the glass slipper.)etc
I TOTALLY recommend this classic movie to anyone.. I have the VHS version and It's GREAT!!(picture and sound) I also have ordered the soundtrack cd!! Do your family and yourself a favor and buy this!!It is sooooooooo romantic... I have actually cried at some scenes, I wish I could have seen this as a child but I APPRECIATE this now.....