First of all, let me explain that the TWO-STAR rating I've given this, the Blu-Ray DVD version of Creepshow, is only for the DVD itself.  The movie, which is one of my all-time favorite horror flicks is definately a FIVE-STAR piece of movie-making!

This Blu-Ray disc, as others have found, is a great disappointment. The video transfer is fair at best.  I did an A/B comparision between this disc and the regular DVD on two Blu-Ray players with an HD 32" television and I see very little difference.

But what's worse, the only extra is the trailer. Now here's the real injustice to Creepshow fans:  There is an excellent 2 Disc DVD Special Edition available from the United Kingdom. The first Disc contains the full-length film. But unlike the American DVD release, there's an audio commentary throughout the feature with George Romero and master make-up artist Tom Savini. And in addition to the 2.0 stereo sound, there's also a 5.1 surround soundtrack! The second disc is filled with a multitude of extras! First, there's a 90 minute feature "Just Desserts--The Making of Creepshow." It's loaded with interviews with George Romero, Tom Savini, and many other cast and crew  members.  Also included are deleted scenes, alternate takes and bloopers. Next, there's behind-the-scenes footage personally filmed by Tom Savini. Finally, there's a stills gallery and of course the trailer.

The entire package comes in a clear standard keep case which is contained in an outer cardboard slipcase! Now, if you didn't already realize, here's the bad news:  Since this is a European release, it is in the PAL television format, Region 2.  It is also very unlikely that any of these extras will ever be available here in the U.S. because Universal Home Video owns the rights to everything in the U.K. not Warner Brothers; actually the 90 minute featurette appears to have been assembled by Universal and is introduced as Universal Presents...  I doubt Warner Brothers will ever strike up a deal with Universal to bring these features to us fans in America; they missed their chance for this Blu-Ray release.

If you have a region code free DVD player and a PAL to NTSC television converter, go to Amazon.uk and order this package. It's well worth it!!