Over the years, Disney has gone from giving us quality to giving us garbage such as the stuff found on the Disney Channel (Shake It Up, Jessie, ANT Farm). This proves that Disney has not been as good as they used to be. Thankfully, however, some of the workers at Disney work their hardest to satisfy the fans of the older days such as myself, by re-releasing their animated movies for new generations, among other things. With the Diamond Edition of Lady and the Tramp, they are not only doing the fans of the classic Disney films justice once again, they are also doing ME some justice, as I am a huge fan of Lady and the Tramp. In fact, I was pretty hyped for this release.

The story revolves around Lady, who is a pampered Cocker Spaniel, and a streetwise Schnauzer named Tramp. One day, Lady's owners leave her with Aunt Sarah and her Siamese cats while they go on vacation. The Siamese Cats mess up the house and blame Lady for it. Aunt Sarah decides to get a muzzle for Lady at the pet shop, but then Lady runs out. Tramp spots Lady and helps her get the muzzle off. And the rest of the movie is done wonderfully.

As you can tell by the title of this review, I love this movie with all of my heart, and it happens to be my favorite Disney classic, and my second favorite movie of all time, next to Scamp's Adventure. The charm of the film is at a ridiculous high, and the quality of the sound and visual experience are at its very best.

Particularly the voice acting is among some of the best in any animated movie. Barbara Luddy is the perfect voice for Lady, and it's one of the best voice overs I have ever heard in my life. Lady happens to be my favorite character in this movie, because of her voice, and she's just so freaking cute! How could you not love her? I love her personality, her design, and anything else that is good about this character. This is one of those characters that I could just reach into the screen and hug.

Tramp also has a very good voice actor by the name of Larry Roberts. Roberts is the perfect voice for Tramp, and also adds to the character's street-wise personality. Tramp also has a very positive attitude towards his life, especially since his life is poles apart from Lady's. It's also very fun to dub this character when watching this film, just like with Scamp in the sequel. Tramp is the perfect other-half for Lady.

The art value of this film could not be any more spellbinding. The animation is some of the freshest, most vibrant animation I have seen in a Disney classic. The sole Disney Classic about animals that I think has been able to do this is Bambi. The characters in Lady and the Tramp are animated very well, and move so stunningly, almost as if they were real. This is why I miss hand drawn animation, and why animators need to step up and use this kind of animation for their movies, not computer generated animation. Yes, I like some CGI animated movies, such as most from Pixar and Dreamworks, but CGI is not a very satisfying type of animation in my eyes. Hand drawn animation is much more emotional and moving than anything of CGI.

What else does there need to be discussed about the movie? This is Disney at its best, and I hope Disney doesn't stop making re-releases of their classic movies.

Also, another thing I have to point out is the trailer for the sequel that is featured on here. Best trailer for a movie I have ever seen... hands down. Go buy the Lady and the Tramp Blu Ray for any generation. You will save the world from falling into the pit.

Rating: 5 stars/5 stars