I purchased this DVD through Amazon and have only watched it once, so this review is based on one viewing on the small screen, 12 hours after the fact.  I had a variety of reactions to the film.  Early on, it seemed to drag a bit and I felt like it could have been an audio piece instead of video.  I didn't feel like the visuals really added much in the first hour or so of the film.

But the format grew on me as the film went on and I was accustomed to it by the end.  The effect of seemingly random photographs and video snippets shown to the sound of (usually) one side of a conversation with Kurt Cobain was a kind of disconnect that was probably intentional, but tended to be off-putting at first. If you watch the film on DVD, be sure to watch the extra features, in which Azerrad and Schnack explain the work and some of the choices they made.  These featurettes put the film in a better perspective, and made me appreciate what I had seen a bit more.

This film is probably best described as a companion to Azerrad's book, and readers of "Come As You Are" will recognize portions of Cobain's words in the film from the book.  That being said, "About A Son" does not seem to be something a casual fan would really enjoy - I would only recommend it to Nirvana/Cobain die-hards and completists.

The movie seemed to be missing something, and that something was the music of Nirvana. I thought it was a nice touch to include music that Cobain appreciated, but I really feel like it would have been a better and more complete "documentary" with music and performances by (or at the very least, more photos of,) Cobain and Nirvana.  I don't know if Schnack et al were unable to obtain the rights to these types of materials for financial or other reasons, but the film really suffered in my opinion for the lack of the very music that was being discussed. It felt incomplete, which again may have been intentional. But if it was intentional, I feel it was the wrong choice - this film needed more Nirvana. I can understand not wanting to have tired, old photographs, performances, and music dominate the film - leave that to "Behind the Music" and its copycats - but leaving that type of material out entirely made the film suffer, in my opinion.

All that being said, "About a Son" is a powerful film for fans of Nirvana. It is a warts-and-all look at Kurt Cobain the person (as opposed to Cobain the musician or Cobain the unwilling generation spokesman.) Parts are funny, parts are informative, and parts are just plain sad. It angered me to hear Cobain's rationalizing of his drug problem and it spooked me to hear him discuss his own death (even mentioning blowing his own head off at one point,) in interviews recorded a relatively short time before it happened. For the faults I felt it had, the film was touching and well-made.  I am very glad I watched this movie, but I am not sure I need to own it and doubt I will watch it again.