I gave this production just one star. Unfortunately, it is the worst Titanic movie/series I have watched. The SOS Titanic from 1979 is absolutely superior both when it comes to characters and the story itself.

This production contains a long list of goofs and grave errors, both when it comes to the vessel itself and also the things going on onboard. The characters speaks in a way that was absolutely inappropriate in 1912 and not something you associate with first class passengers (in some scenes).

They also manage to feed the idea of bad workmanship and that company greed was the reason for the life boat capacity. That is absolutely wrong! The British Board of Trade promoted the idea that the vessels should be life boats by themselves, through heavy compartmentalization. The Olympic class liners were designed according to this concept and could float with two sections completely flooded or the first four compartments flooded. The regulations demanded a seating capacity of 900 in the life boats and the vessels were in fact equipped with a life boat capacity of 1178. That is 278 seats more than required.

A cheap bomb plot is also put in place, just to fit the modern terrorist inspired minds.

Then we have the depiction of the ship itself. For the first time ever has a Titanic movie completely evaded the grand staircase. Even the budget production from 1996 shows it. Then we have the very strange corridor placed where the gymnasium is - and an even more interesting stair case leading from it to the third class dining room.

They bragged about showing the second class in this series. The little problem is that they shows almost nothing of it, just something that pretends to be the main stair case in that class. SOS Titanic did a much better job since it focused on the second class passenger Lawrence Beesley.

The plot with the Italian restaurant staff that was locked in is simply too much. The same goes with the usual "locked in third class passengers". By just checking the GA plans of the vessel, that common myth can be put to rest. Those passengers had access to the forward and stern welldecks and the poopdeck. It was possible to go from there to the upper decks by using the stairs.

It is the only Titanic production I have viewed that was directly boring. The gross inaccuracies made it too uninteresting.

For those who want a pretty decent TV interpretation of the disaster, watch the full edition of the SOS Titanic. Even if it shows a "dream version" of the ship, it is much better made and a lot more correct.

Among the movies, the A Night to Remember is the best bet, followed by the Cameron movie of 1997. The absolute strength of that movie is that is shows the vessel in a very good way.

I can also recommend the Saving the Titanic. It is an interesting and well made depiction of the effort of the crew when they tried to keep her afloat after the collision.