Addendum to my original review: 
I am glad to learn that this title is in fact 16:9 encoded. However, I've been bitten by the letterbox enough times to remain wary of all titles that do not indicate 16:9 (see below). I offer Disney's DVD of "The Rocketeer" as an example.  The package for Rocketeer has the word "Widescreen" prominently displayed, but it turned out to be letterbox widescreen.  I do not believe, as one reviewer accuses, that I was being irresponsible in alerting buyers to the possibility of the "Journey to the Center of the Earth" DVD being letterboxed.  No, the irresponsibility lies with whoever marketed this disk without bothering to indicate that it was 16:9.  Anyway, thanks to all those above who posted to set me straight.  I am now eager to order this title. I believe my original review remains germane in part, and may be instructive to some, so I will leave it.
Original review follows:
Buyer beware! Pre-release information of Fox Home Entertainment's new DVD edition of "Journey to the Center of the Earth" states only that the disk is "widescreen". There is no indication that this disk is 1) 16:9 encoded, 2) enhanced for widescreen TVs, or 3) anamorphic. If none of these three key phrases is present, it is a good bet that the word "widescreen" merely means plain old-fashioned letterboxed formatting. 
Why should you care whether this disk is 16:9 encoded? Because when played back on a widescreen digital TV, a 16:9 disk is capable of delivering significantly higher resolution. Even if you do not own a widescreen TV, chances are you will, soon. When you buy a digital widescreen TV, if the "widescreen" disk you buy today is not 16:9 encoded, it will continue to look more like letterbox VHS rather than widescreen HDTV. 
Personally, I am content to continue watching my VHS tape of this title until Fox releases this title with 16:9 enhancement. In the meantime, I would suggest an alternate purchase of a quality DVD digitized with true widescreen enhancement, such as the splendid new DVD editions of "Forbidden Planet", or "The Time Machine" starring Rod Taylor.

Vote with your pocketbook. Let the studios know that you demand 16:9 encoding on all "widescreen" DVDs. After all, why should you settle for less?