I've probably seen a thousand movies about cops, and I'll probably see a thousand more. To my memory, some of the best portrayals of cops on the silver screen come from films such as "Serpico," "The French Connection," "The Prince of the City," and "L.A. Confidential," or even minor films such as "Q & A" and "Year of the Dragon." My "favorite" movie cops, so to speak, tend to be the ones on the edge of the law, or the force, or both. 
There was a fair amount of pre-release print devoted to this film, so of course I had very high expectations of Denzel Washington's character, who's an L.A. street detective always "on the dark side of the force." The parallels between Washington's Alonzo Harris and the real-life Rafael Perez (the LAPD detective notorious for his role in the Rampart scandal) are obvious. But what's most interesting about this comparison is the fact that David Ayer's searing screenplay was essentially completed long before Rampart became a synonym for police corruption. This is not just a story imitating history, but reflecting it directly. Ayer drops you headlong into the gutter to smell, breathe, and taste the world that "Training Day" brings, the blurred line between good and evil. Along with Antoine Fuqua's stylish direction and Mark Mancina's ominous score, this film doesn't just show you the streets ... it is the streets.
The story introduces Alonzo in the most effective way possible ... by using Ethan Hawke's character Jake Hoyt as his "straight man" (and our moral center), so that as we are bombarded by Alonzo's extremely unconventional methods, Jake's reactions are also ours. In scene after scene, Alonzo's lesson is that in order to get crime off the streets, you first have to get close enough to it to make you a little dirty. Not surprisingly, Washington dominates the screen in every single scene, with language and behavior unlike most of the movie cops portrayed before him. Washington invests the character with one part depth, one part smarts, and two parts swagger, with a street-level expertise that is alternately impressive and repulsive.
I was somewhat let down by the final 20 minutes, because Alonzo is suddenly made into an irredeemable villain, which cheapens the character, and we are supposed to accept what becomes of him at face value. Such a giftwrapped ending is in keeping more with Hollywood's peculiar white hat/black hat moral tradition rather than the harsh realities preached by Alonzo throughout the film. It looks like an ending decided in the production office rather than on the keyboard. A more ambiguous ending would have been more explosive in its own way, and I suppose that's why the break is so clean.
Denzel Washington's second Oscar is well deserved. Alonzo Harris is one of the most unforgettable movie cops I've ever seen. The moral here, if there is one, is that even a blurred line can be crossed.