I think I expected a French version of Alias, and perhaps Nikita the TV series is such, but this movie from 1990 was much darker and, in actuality, more interesting than I expected. It was still a little bit violent for our tastes, including the opening sequences where you are "introduced" to Nikita. I have to use quotes on that introduced, because this is one of those movies where nothing is ever explained, partly because that adds to the hip and stylish nature of the camera work and the dialogue (both of which are great) but also because it helps put the viewer into Nikita's place, where she doesn't really know anything either. That method of always showing and never telling, though, is also what fascinated me about the movie. It would be interesting to see the American version of this movie, Point of No Return, and see if that version maintained the mystery.

Quick recap of the story, without spoilers, if you've never seen this. Nikita is a young woman who kills a police officer, so the government "kills" her and offers her a chance to make amends by becoming a special operative. After years of grueling training, she's "released" to the world, given a fake cover, told her operative name, and informed that she would be called for her first mission in six months. She then goes about becoming a real person (something I would have said she wasn't before she killed the policeman) and things are just swell until that call comes and she is forced to live a double-life. All in all, this is a superhero plot and movie--the first half is the origin story while the second half is the actual plot of the movie. The ending is one of the better for this type of story, and we also liked how, in this movie, people not only got killed when they were shot (unlike most movies of this type where bullets are sprayed everywhere and no one ever seems to get hurt) but they also run out of bullets (see previous comment).

I'm not sure I really liked the movie, but I didn't hate it either, and there was much more a chance of the latter with a film of this type.