I just finished watching the Image 16 X 9 five-disc box set of WAR AND PEACE.  I'll admit up front that I haven't seen the Kultur full frame version, so I can't intelligently compare picture and sound quality.  The Kultur version is available only in Russian with English subs, whereas the Image version gives you the choice of Russian, English or French language tracks along with more subtitle options than I've ever seen offered on any DVD.
First off, the film is an epic story and is powerfully cinematic.  It's evenly divided between the war and peace sections.  No film could really do justice to Tolstoy's great novel -----except perhaps a very long TV mini series------but at seven hours Sergei Bondarchuk had the scope to attempt it.  The characters are extremely well drawn: the actress playing Natasha looks very much like Audrey Hepburn; however, the actor playing Pierre looked so much like one of Benny Hill's characters that I had a little trouble getting over it.  The interior sets are nothing less than magnificent and the exterior cinematography dynamically sets the mood.  The script condenses Tolstoy's masterpiece as well as can be expected for a novel close to twice the length of Gone With the Wind.  There are some scenes of tremendous power that you won't soon forget and I've never seen a film make such narrative use of moving clouds.  They almost become a character in the film.
As to quality: the sound is quite good.  The picture, though, was obviously taken from a dupe negative.  The close ups are fine, but the interior long shots are soft and grainy-------but are mercifully kept to a minimum.  If you're going to watch it with the English track, turn on the subtitles because many times during the film an English dubbed translation is not available for certain passages, but is given in the subtitles.  My guess is------because the print was assembled from several different sources and differs from the shortened version seen in English speaking countries--------that there was no English track for many scenes.  
During this era, Russian was considered the language of the peasants.  The aristocracy spoke French.  On first hearing French, I thought the filmmakers were being historically accurate, but when I heard Russian and there was again no English dubbing, I came to a different conclusion.  
The idealistic ending may bother some of the realists out there, but the "forgive your enemies-brotherhood of man" theme was very much a part of Tolstoy's novel.  
The fifth (bonus) disc contains documentaries on Tolstoy, Russian history, interviews, etc.  This is one of Image's most prestigious releases so far.
Jay F.