If you're coming to CASTLE OF CAGLIOSTRO after having admired Miyazaki's other work, you'll be extremely disappointed - it's his first feature as a director, and is clearly a work-for-hire based on Monkey Punch's popular (and VERY Seventies) LUPIN III manga and anime. So there's very little of Miyazaki's humanism or love of nature here - and a lot of Lupin III's outlandish sideburns and 007-Meets-Benny Hill schemes. 
However, if you're coming to this movie looking for Lupin III, you'll be delighted because it's an outstanding adventure for him and his usual gang of cohorts (including Inspector Zenigata - who has to work WITH him for a change to catch a genuinely dastardly villain!). If any touches of Miyazaki are evident, it's in the movie's treatment of women and sex - the heroine Clarisse seems tremulous at first glance but proves to have a lot of courage in the clinch, and for once Fujiko is more effective female hero than doublecrossing tease. Even Lupin's perpetual horniness is toned down considerably - he comes off as a genuinely gallant "gentleman thief" than the loud jacket-wearing stunned-ox-in-heat he often comes across as in the anime series (currently playing on Cartoon Network's ADULT SWIM block).
Another good touch is the portrayal of Zenigata - "Pops" isn't a totally-incompetent bullying buffoon in Miyazaki's view, but a good cop driven bonkers by his fruitless pursuit of a great adversary. He knowingly risks his career (and life) and teams up with the man he's been determined to arrest since - well, forever! - to stop the villainous Count Cagliostro's schemes. Of course, the movie ends just as almost every Lupin III adventure does, with Zenigata chasing Lupin - again! - and Lupin, Jigen, Goemon and Fujiko getting away from him with foolish ease...again....
If you go into CASTLE OF CAGLIOSTRO looking for a fun lighthearted adventure, you'll be delighted - just don't expect to see much of the man who would later give the world classics like TOTORO, PRINCESS MONONOKE or SPIRITED AWAY.