The whole time that I was watching this movie, I kept thinking to myself what a shame it was that it's so bad, when it has so much potential.
And this movie really does have a lot of potential.  Starring Arnold  Schwarzenneger, who we already know can do sword-and-sorcery quite well,  and Brigitte Nielson, who is gorgeous and neat in the title role, this  movie certainly had the potential to go forward in that regard, and it was  directed by the same guy who did Conan the Destroyer, and we know he can  handle these movies at least somewhat competently, so what went  wrong?
The main problem is the presentation of the film itself.  Whereas  its predecessors, the Conan films, relied on and were centered on their  extremely powerful music and visuals, this movie had pretty weak, typical,  light musical fare that from some composer I've never heard of.
Another  fault was the humor.  Barbarian took itself too seriously, but that was  okay as it was a serious movie. Destroyer didn't take itself seriously at  all, which worked out pretty well as it wasn't a serious movie.  This isn't  a serious movie, but it is taking itself way too seriously. The whole thing  from the dialogue through the special effects through the costars are  unintentionally hilarious.
Another problem with this film was the  continuity department.  As noted in the previous review...the body blinks.  More stuff like that occurs.  Someone takes an arrow in the back, and then  is laid on her back.  And for us REH fans...How in hell is Arnold the High  Lord of Hyrkania?
The special effects are ridiculous, most notably the  pitiful "talisman" which can "destroy the world through  storm and earthquake" and the cut-screening of the queen at the end. I  couldn't quite tell what to make of "the machine," but I wasn't  very impressed, and the bone bridge was kind of ridiculous.
And the  absolute worst thing about this movie is -- the opening.  Sonja wakes up,  beaten and bloodied, and in order to show the viewer the background story,  an angel comes down and tells her, "Sonja, Queen Gedren came, ordered  your parents killed, allowed her soldiers to rape you, and burned your  home.  To get the revenge which you will seek I vest in you great sword-arm  strength."  BS!  The movies short enough, it would have been helped  by including that scene as an opening rather than as a story being told to  a participant by some weirdo sword carrying angel.
However, despite all  the problems with this movie, a couple things stand out, which is why I  gave it a 2 instead of a 1.  First of all, the swordplay.  While at times a  bit overwrought, this is some of the best, most realistic, onscreen  broadsword fighting you'll see.  The other is Sonja herself.  She is a  gorgeous, strong actress whose only fault was deciding to accept a part in  this film.  
And the last thing is, despite it all, I somehow enjoyed  this film.  It must be that appeal that all things foolish have for people,  but God help me, I enjoyed the thing.