The 1970's were for the most part a bad time for movies. Economic troubles amongst other such woes seemed to plague the entire world.

And the cinema had it no better. Again, for the most part.

See, for every Raging Bull, Taxi Driver and Star Wars, there always seemed to be a Giant Spider Invasion or Food of the Gods to make the average moviegoer queasy. Add the increasing popularity of television to the mix and well, you get the idea.

Seemed Godzilla was one of the lucky ones.

Well, yes and no. See, Godzilla managed to continue to be a mainstay in the theaters, but in order to do that, he would have to do an embarrasing amount of things most of us hardcore fans would soon like to forget. Like...

A. Use his breath to propel himself in the air.

B. Play second fiddle to Jet Jaguar in the following film Godzilla vs. Megalon.

C. Do a flying missile dropkick in said Megalon.

and...

D. Go from a walking doomsday device to lovable children's hero.

Which leads us to this film. See, having to weigh their budgetary options, Toho Co. Ltd, along with director Jun Fukuda, director of 5 Godzilla films, opted to use stock footage from previous Godzilla films like Monster Zero (which in itself used footage from Rodan (1957), also in this film), Ghidrah, the Three Headed Monster, Destroy all Monsters and Son of Godzilla, as well as other Toho outlets like Frankenstein Conquers the World. The idea was by using this footage Toho could save money in visual effects. This decision was and still is not appreciated by fans (me, I liked it, considering that at least most of the footage was from good films), blaming Jun Fukuda for ruining the Godzilla legacy.

But it wasn't all his fault. In the days where there was no money, screenplays were written in a day and moviemaking was basicly a rushed, incoherent job, even Fukuda today fells like watching these films are like "opening old wounds."

In either event, most of this footage was used again in Godzilla vs. Megalon, but I would reccomend watching this film at least once to get a glimpse of that infamous time in moviemaking.

Later!