First a confession: I watched this with the preconception that sequels, ESPECIALLY the third of a series, are nonsense. So far only Back to the Future 3, Last Crusade and Return of the Jedi have disproved the rule. But JP3 does not. I will be brief, as was the film.
  The plot is typically brainless for a sequel, and even with a story it feels as though we're just wandering from one contrived action sequence to the next. The other two films set up conventions (ie these characters die, these don't) and now we know what to expect... so when half the plane crew get eaten, it comes as no surprise.
  The cast are passable. Niell and Nivola are excellent, but much as they appear as the only dinosaur experts in the story, they also seem to be the only credible actors. They are surrounded by William H. Macy, doing that-nice-American-guy he does in every film, and Tia Lioni, loud, annoying... B-List! Alan's loathing of being involved is more than felt by us.
  And the effects... Personally, I've heard a lot of praise. But why? The computer-dinosaurs really LOOK like computer-dinosaurs, in all their out of place glory. And the model dinosaurs have such slow, jerky movements that make them reminiscent of the stop motion Harryhausen movies that paved the way for Jurassic Park. These effects are awful!
  And the Spinosaurus. Included purely for the sake of having another dinosaur, with no explanation (even Niell points out that Spinosaurus shouldn't be there), it is a strange creature, and if it weren't the main monster, we would wonder why it follows the cast throughout. The fight with the T-rex is disconcerting... at this point, I realised I was rooting for the T-rex! It's death more than symbolised the direction this film was taking Jurassic Park.
  And the hideously under-developed raptor idea... what was that again? They're intelligent? Clearly forgotten during script-writing, the idea is picked up again at the end for a last minute confrontation. And then a rushed end, everyone is happy, the dinosaurs are back in the jungle where they can't hurt anyone... and we're left wondering what the point was.
  Perhaps it's thankful that it was only 90/100 minutes. It was stretched at that, too.