It would be fair to assume that a movie titled Dr. T &amp; the Women would be one of three types: a cheap B movie about a washed up doctor and a bunch of showgirls, a tacky porn movie, or a lighthearted look at a man who loves and respects the many women in his life. I expected the third and was sadly mistaken.
Early in the movie, Dr. Travis describes women as angels who should be worshipped. His problems with the women in his life are supposed to result from his doing just that. His wife suffers from being loved too much, one daughter is spoiled because he gives her everything she needs, his office manager has a crush on him because he's a great boss, his patients love him because he tells them all they're beautiful... it goes on and on.  
Those are the fictional problems of the character in this movie. Here are my problems . First, there is not a postive female role in the entire picture, with the possible exception of Liv Tyler's character. His wife is loony, his sister in law is a drunk, one daughter's a spoiled brat, the other's a tattletale obsessed with violence, the office manager tries to seduce him, the old bat in the waiting room regularly assaults the young, beautiful, rich, insecure woman who has bi-weekly appointments at the gynecologist because everyone there tells her how beautiful and perfect she is, and the golf pro, supposedly a strong, self-confident woman, is fooling around with a guy who she knows is married. Even Liv Tyler's character, a friend of his daughter in town for the daughter's wedding, is dubious. I mean, if you had to squeeze in a visit to the gynecologist while you were in town, would you really want your best friend's father at the other end of the stirrups?
Second, if Dr. T loves women so much, why does he treat them so poorly? He ignores his family, doesn't visit his wife in the mental hospital for six weeks, doesn't get a second opinion when her doctor diagnoses her with some ridiculous condition and recommends he not see her, cheats on his (beloved) wife during that six week period, constantly leaves women in his waiting room for hours on end and, although it doesn't actually say this in the movie, probably doesn't pay his office staff enough to put up with the garbage that they handle for him while he runs out to golf and shoot skeet.
Finally, the filmmaker seems to have taken Richard Gere playing a gynecologist as an opportunity to frame his face as often as possible with women's thighs. Do we really need to see him do a breast exam? Is this an integral part of the story? Was the birth scene, shot from the doctor's point of view, necessary? Oh don't worry - this movie couldn't care less about the women in it, so the birth only lasted 15 seconds and was as clean as Martha Stewart's kitchen. It was just an excuse to place Richard Gere between one more pair of female thighs.