"My Big Fat Greek Wedding" is a funny film. And I recommend people watching it for the many laughs found in it. But I am afraid that it is a mistake for  folks to believe that this flick is a completely accurate portrayal of Greek Culture in America. It is not! And it disturbs me that some people actually think it is. Plain and simple, the makers of this film had to play on and even exaggerate stereotypes to keep it funny and sell it to the public. 
  The Greeks are a people who are rightfully proud of their ancestral contributions to Western Civilization. The film was correct in showing us that. And they indeed value familial bonds - as do most North Americans. Again the storyline was correct in that regard. But generally, the Greeks are nowhere near the clannish or meddlesome individuals that this film would have us believe they are.
 Professor Bruce Thornton, a scholar of the classics and humanities has written in "Greek Ways: How The Greeks Created Western Civilization",  "What is unusual in the Greeks is a real curiosity about people different from themselves and a willingness to consider whether those peoples might have something worthy to offer."

  I would submit that the vast majority of  Modern Greeks living in North America, still hold true to this idea. If they didn't, there is no way that they would have done as well as they have in the United States. While Greeks like to preserve their culture, they also enjoy mixing with other people. And they take great delight and feel appreciation when non-Greeks learn a few Greek words,  enjoy a Greek dish or come to admire some Greek custom.  I would submit that since much of authentic Western culture has it's roots in Ancient Greece; there is probably more similarity between Greek-Americans and other Americans of European descent, than there are differences. Think about it. 
  Buy the film and keep in mind that it is about one Greek-American girl falling in love with a nice young White Anglo-Saxon Protestant.  But please don't take it as a serious study of Greek culture in America. That would be like thinking all of Canada is covered in snow year round. It is not.