The movie goes out of its way to try to depict what made George W Bush president and what made President George W Bush a failure, but it has little substance beyond reenacting quotes (usually in the wrong setting) in a loose, disjointed narrative. This isn't a documentary; it isn't a drama; and it isn't really a comedy, tho it desperately wants you to chuckle at times.

The dialog is weak, with characters often telling each other information they both know as a clumsy means of revealing it to the audience (or worse: why would GHWB say to GWB "...our family, the Bush family"?). The performances are good, but sometimes border on overtly dramatic (Wolfowitz and Powell) and plain caricature (Rice and W). Richard Dreyfus's Dick Cheney stands out as a straight-faced comedic character. Bizarrely, Scott Glenn actually underplays Donald Rumsfeld's eccentricities.

The Blu-Ray release looks great (a bit grainy and desaturated, but by choice), but the menu system is bad. There are several trailers at the beginning, and the menu buttons are disabled (you have to use the chapter forward button several times to get thru all of them). The "Filmmakers' Research and Annotation Guide" is a very long series of notes on where various ideas came from, but there is no way out of it. Literally. There is an exit button on screen but I could find no way at all to get to it, and the menu, return, and exit buttons are all disabled.

There is a pretty good commentary by director Oliver Stone, who really needs to stop trying to deconstruct and reconstruct presidents. And there are several other extras of some interest, assuming you liked the film in the first place.

I saw the film because I love the White House and expected numerous scenes in a good replica, but there were rather fewer scenes in the White House than I expected and the sets are not at all very good. The Oval Office and Situation Room are very good, but there is a dining room and an entrance hall that correspond in no way to the real spaces, and other scenes are framed in such a way that you can't even see the room, just the characters. A real disappointment.