Why only two stars? I hated the movie. One star is because I support Zombie movies, the second star is for the fact it's not a HORRIBLE horrible movie/inexscusable waste of 2 hours of life as long as YOU are not the one who pays for it (watching, buying, or renting!). That said...

I loved the first movie. Hands down. So I had mild expectations for this, but it dashed even the lowest bar.

The concept was good. The IDEA I liked. The execution wasn't worth the film it was put on. The plot and ending was completely and easily figured out in the first 30 minutes. The first five minutes was the ONLY good part. The rest went from painstakingly slow to freakishly quick and predictable.

*edit*- spoilers *end edit*

Strike 1-unbelievable, very unrealistic. The fact that so many incidences were because of character COMPLETE AND UTTER stupidity disappointed me. That 2 kids want to go on an "adventure" considering the devastation that occured, knowing that people were brutally murdered, knowing how contagious the virus was, having to steal bike keys from the hands of a dead zombie and still happy and laughing?

Strike 2- the fact that they give UNLIMITED ACCESS to EVERYTHING to any of the survivors they found. That would NEVER happen and the fact that they say the military would do that is laughable. The military doesn't even trust regular citizens with INFORMATION, so I couldn't believe they would give that kind of access in that kind of situation and think everything was going to be hunky dory.

Strike 3- The way that they (as in the people trying to save them) knew that the kids could genetically be carriers and were trying to release them over the channel instead of taking them to a base, where they might be killed but had a better chance than on their own, knowing that they could have been infected already (since they found the mother who was also infected and highly contagious).

The only 2 people I actually cared about was the sniper (Oh, he was cute) and the helicopter pilot (ah, that's not cool). As you can see, it wasn't even a deep sense of caring. The other main characters (not the extras, they don't really count) got less than what they deserved. And France too (just kidding! couldn't help it! :D )

The only reason I can recommend this movie without hating myself is that you can get it along with the first one for a good price. And if you are dedicated to watching zombie movies then watch it just to say you've seen it. But it really is a horrible movie.