I bought this blu-ray pack because I love House and I can't imagine anyone would be on the fence of buying this pack. You're either a House fan or you're not and reading amazon reviews won't change that. However, I wanted to talk about the packaging of the actual discs and the experience I had watching the first couple episodes.

Short version: it's terrible. If you bought House Season 6 or movies such as In Bruges or Quantum or Solace (I think?) you'll be familiar with this god awful freeware that Universal uses in all of their Blu-Rays. Load times are way too long. From putting the disc in to seeing the start of an episode, that process can take upwards of five minutes. You might be thinking "Well it's only five minutes." But you have to imagine situations of when you'd watch House. Probably with some friends or if you're eating dinner and want to watch something.

In five minutes you can lose interest or be half way through your meal. Now add on the fact that you basically have to repeat the process once per episode and in three hours of watching House you've probably spent upwards of 20-30 minutes starring at a black screen. It's ridiculous. Every Blu-Ray I own that has this BD Live set up has the same problem. Other Blu-Rays that have their own system, they work perfectly, load instantly and have no issues. The fact that this Menu setup is still being used is because not enough people are complaining, I'd suggest either buying the regular DVDs if you can do without HD or find a customer contact for the maker of these Blu-Rays and complain, it's really terrible.

I also forgot to add in there that if you pause the show, after about thirty seconds a screen saver of the "Universal" logo shows up. Sounds great except that screen savers are for one purpose: to save your screen from burned-in images. This screen saver is incredibly bright and more importantly you can't resume from the screen saver. You have to hit stop and then press play, which reloads the disc from the beginning. Remember that five minute wait I was talking about? Imagine if that happened in the middle of an episode and you had to do it again, plus added time to get back to your positioning. It's garbage.

____________________

As for the show itself: I'm a House apologist. I loved seasons 1-4 (minus Tritter and Vogler) I didn't mind the transition of a new cast, it made sense, besides House's Head is the best episode of the series and it wouldn't exist without Season 4. Season 5 and 6 definitely declined in quality but it was more-so individual episodes that were cringe worthy not the series itself (Anything with Foreman and 13 was awful and pretending that Wilson was going to leave the show was a joke).

Despite all that I've stuck with the show because the good episodes are really great. I haven't seen the entirety of Season 7 (I missed the first few episodes) but from what I did see, outside of the very first episode and the very last episode, this is one of the better seasons. I might even rank it in the same category as Season 4. The show has been going for so long they've obviously lost the mystery and excitement of "what crazy thing will happen next" but they've done so much already I can't imagine how they'd escalate it. With that in mind they focus on just interesting individual cases which are medically interesting and I think the drama elements are more toned down overall which is how they should be.

The first episode is pointless at the last episode is frustrating but everything in between is great. Like I said before, the Blu-Rays themselves are garbage but if you can grit your teeth through it or decide to buy the regular DVDs (that don't have the same menus set up) then you should enjoy House Season 7.

P.S. The packaging of the discs themselves is three holders, with discs 1 and 2 stacked on top of each other and discs 3 and 4 stacked on top of each other on the different holder. Disc 5 is by itself. I don't know if this is better or worse than the Season 6 holders since this new version may cause scratches (I think? Not sure) but at least they're trying.