"When I became a man, I put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and the desire to be very grown up." ~C.S. Lewis

Though he may not share Lewis' faith, there's no one in Hollywood who embodies this quote more than director Guillermo del Toro. His films are fantastical fairy tales for adults, steeped in the tropes of loss, sacrifice, death, monsters (human and imaginary), and love.

I'm an unabashed fan of the (admittedly flawed) original film, about a baby demon brought over from The Other Side to fight for the Nazis during World War II. He's instead rescued by American forces, adopted by a professor of paranormal studies (John Hurt), and given the name Hellboy. All grown up, he's part of the Bureau of Paranormal Research and Defense (B.P.R.D.), tasked with fighting otherworldly baddies--and keeping as low a profile as possible while doing it.

This sequel opens on a Christmas Eve in the '50s, with Hellboy's adopted father reading the 10-year-old an unconventional bedtime story. It seems years ago there was a great war between humans and faery creatures (elves, trolls, goblins, and so on). The elf king had a Golden Army created--hundreds of automatons that were unbeatable and unstoppable. But the king regretted the bloodshed, so a truce was agreed upon, with humans taking the cities, and the faery-folk taking the forests, with the understanding that neither will encroach on the other.

Now it's the present day, and Nuada, the prince of the elves (they're long-lived folk) has decided that humans should be destroyed and the magical creatures should take back what is rightfully theirs. He's trying to assemble the three parts of his father's crown, which will allow him to awaken and command the Golden Army. But his twin sister Nuala, who doesn't agree with her brother's plan, has fled with one of the pieces of the crown.

Enter the B.R.P.D., comprised of Hellboy (Ron Perlman), his inflammatory--literally--girlfriend Liz (Selma Blair), and the fish-man empath Abe Sapien (Doug Jones). They're joined by Johann Krauss, a by-the-book, ghostly new commander voiced by Seth Macfarlane. They're trying to find and protect Princess Nuala, and keep Nuada from awakening that horrible Golden Army.

Hellboy and the gang first encounter Nuala in the Troll Market, an updated Mos Eisley Cantina filled with amazing creatures--I can't wait for the DVD just so I can explore those scenes some more. One of the things I like best about del Toro is his willingness to use real actors in real costumes, rather than relying on CGI so heavily. This is never more evident than when the Angel of Death makes an appearance later in the film (also played by the amazing Doug Jones). It's genuinely creepy, and more so because we know it's not a computer effect.

One scene that definitely does use CGI is the fight with the enormous forest god. It's an interesting struggle, as Hellboy feels he may have more in common with this creature than he does with the humans he's trying to save. Also, whatever the creature touches--whether with its appendages or with its "blood"--blooms into colorful life. You find yourself feeling slightly sorry for this creature that creates beauty every time it touches something.

But the film's not all about fights and monsters. There are plenty of laughs--more than in the original. The fight between Hellboy and Johann Krauss was entirely unique, and a fine bit of physical humor. And the scene where Hellboy and Abe bond as they reflect on their love lives is very well done and funny. I wish there were more scenes like this, where we're given insights into these fascinating characters.

One of the most interesting scenes of the original is where Hellboy is tempted to take back his rightful place in hell, and embrace his demon-ness. He's able to overcome this temptation when he holds fast to his adopted father's Catholic faith--and he grasps his father's rosary, which burns an impression of the cross on Hellboy's hand. But aside from a few images of a cross and a rosary, this sequel doesn't have any of the Christian themes of its predecessor. Apparently overcoming temptation once in the original film has eliminated it altogether, as his love life is the biggest problem he seems to face now. My biggest complaint of the film is that there's nothing uniquely Hellboy-ish about it. You could almost have inserted any superhero into the plot and it would have made just as much sense.

I'm not sure it's a minor quibble, but it's certainly a forgivable one. I enjoyed Hellboy II -- probably more than the original, all told. But where this movie drops the more interesting questions in favor of more action, take the Hellboy by the horns and work through some of them with your teenagers.