I should say right off this is one of my guilty pleasures, but it seems a little balance would useful in the reviews.  There are many good things about it, the plot is imaginative and I like some of the acting.  But the logic and the production fail in so many ways that anyone but a fan is likely to view it as a camp humor flick rather than a serious sci-fi movie.

For a sci-fi picture to work the science must at least be plausible, and there are just too many problems, starting with Breen asserting that the first one to build bases on the moon and Mars will be able "to police the earth with nuclear weapons".  I trust I don't need to point out how comical that is, and shame on the producers for assuming the audience would be so thick.  After that howler it's difficult to take it seriously, like the brain vision equipment, presented as if it were an everyday thing; oh, we just hook this up to that, and zang!  Brain movies.  Yeah, right.  And why would the Martians decompose so fast, even assuming they would have stayed juicy for 5 million years?  Silly.

Then there's the logic lapses.  The explanation by the overly-rigid and formalistic Breen is that the spacecraft must have been a German propaganda weapon.  This is spite of the material being harder than diamonds, incredibly resistant to heat (even Quatermass seems to miss the fact that it absorbs heat, which should have been a warning), the intact buildings overhead, the unlikelyhood of something buried that deep ever being found (how did it get there??) and so forth.  Sure, a by-the-book military type as a foil to Quatermass makes good sense, but Breen would have to be a barnyard idiot.

Finally the production values are very cheesy.  The clay they are digging is obviously in a stage set, you can see where the roof beams end next to the stage wall.  The exposition is sometimes very ham-handed (like a "bomb squad" billboard attached to the hood of a jeep), the news stories horribly corny ("New Finds!").  Stuff like that makes you wince.

Well, at least this DVD is welcome to those who have a soft spot for this thing, like me.  And at least it puts the film together correctly.  For years and years it ran on local US television with the sequences completely out of order, and apparently no one running the film even noticed!  Obviously Vertigo it ain't.