It all looked so promising - at last, a big-budget movie about Ireland's history and actually directed and screenwritten by an Irishman! Tax breaks from the Irish government and thousands of Dubliners willing to work for free as extras gave it an added boost.  So what went wrong? First of all, we have the Oirish cliches. Take this one. Mr Collins makes a speech on a donkey cart. There were such things as platforms in early 20th century Ireland, but let that pass. Then the polis come. Collins gets down from the cart and headbutts someone. Mob take out many hurleys and start headwhacking. The whys and wherefores are a mystery here. It's the modern version of the obligatory barfight scene. Irish public are violent louts whose innate thuggery must be harnessed by a fellow thug in order to behave loutishly towards bigger thugs?

Did anyone actually read the facts about the IRA campaign of guerilla warfare? We get the idea that the whole war, though outwardly aimed at England, is just an internal squabble - which is exactly how the English tried to portray it.

And then the story. It is well known that most real lives don't translate very well to the screen, so subtelty and imagination must be applied liberally. Unfortunately, Collins's true story doesn't lend itself very well to a movie, as the story of, say, Patrick Pearse or Eamon de Valera would. Their lives had real cinematic qualities - heroism, political vision, idealism etc, that is lacking here. Instead of fictionalising the character, which is usually necessary for a successful dramatic narrative, Jordan used the actual facts and twisted them, which only usually works in history, when the historian isn't very particular about the truth. Thus, instead of being a valuable asset to the republican movement, Collins *is* the republican movement. One doesn't wish to underestimate Collins's role, but it was almost exclusively in intelligence. Think of how interesting a film based on Collins's espionage might have been, instead of the fruitless insistence that he was the Big Fella, he really was!

Instead of the statesman that he was (recognised all but officially as the President of the Irish Republic in America, where he toured and raised funds in 1919-20), de Valera 'becomes' a mere conniver, whose only interest is...well, it's not explained, really, but we just *know* he's evil. To set the record straight, all Jordan's insinuations about his motives are wrong. He did not suddenly jump from being a little, egotistical man, to one known internationally for his integrity and his opposition to imperialism - and fascism - overnight. He also had a much greater involvement in the War of Independence than he's given credit for, and neither he nor Brugha approved of Collins's occasional 'revenge' killings. And so on.

As for the acting, the standard was poor. Neeson was alright, but the others were, frankly, atrocious. (Poor aul' Harry Boland, portrayed as a weakling by Quinn, was most definitely *not*  killed in a sewer but gunned down in a hotel room by a murder gang. And why was Dev, in his 30s at the time, made to look old enough to be a grandfather? That's apart from the fact that they really should have given him a moustache to twirl to make him the complete stage villian. And let's not mention the woeful miscasting of Julia Roberts...)

Such a pity, really. I think we all in Ireland deserve a better showing, really, after so much Hollywood misinterpretation of Ireland.