Rob Reiner's "When Harry Met Sally" definitely owes something to Woody Allen, especially to his films like "Annie Hall" and "Manhattan". And if someone disagrees with me, they clearly have never seen a Woody Allen film before in their life. Nora Ephron, who got an Oscar nomination for her script, must have watched Allen's movies before she wrote this. "Annie Hall", to me, is the quintessential romantic comedy of all time. Every romantic comedy made after 1977 (the year "Annie Hall" came out) owes something to it. I don't think all films mean to take a little something from it, but, it's just that "Annie Hall" has left such a big impression on filmmakers and writers that they "borrow" from it unintentionally. Now, this is not to say that "When Harry Met Sally" is a bad movie. I enjoy watching it. It's a good romantic comedy with funny characters, but, it's just that, as I watch this film I can't help but think back to Allen's two films. I mean they even went as far as to use Gershwin's music (Allen's "Manhattan" had a complete Gershwin score to it)! Remember the scene at the end? With Sinatra singing "It Had To Be You". When Crystal comes to realize that he loves Ryan, and he starts to run through the streets of New York to find her at a New Year's Eve party. Well, I like this scene better in "Manhattan" when Allen is running after Mariel Hemingway and in the backgroung we hear Gershwin's "Strike Up The Band". That scene seemed to have more heart to it. "When Harry Met Sally" does have it's funny moments, everyone loves the scene when Ryan fakes an orgasm. And there is wonderful timing between Crystal and Ryan, no question. I also like Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby. Harry Connick Jr's music is fine as well. I like the way he sings "It Had To Be You". His music adds a certain sweetness to some scenes. This is what I would call a "cute" movie. It would be fun to watch this movie with a loved one, because as stated by others, both men and women will find this enjoyable. I would recommend that one watches this movie after they've seen "Annie Hall" and "Manhattan". "When Harry Met Sally" is fun to watch, but, it doesn't offer anything we haven't seen done before.