OK.  The debunker is about to be debunked.

First, I'll mention what I believe are legitimate criticisms of Michael Moore's movie.  Though I generally agree with Moore and his message, there are occasions where he stretches a bit.  One of the most valid points made concerns the Oregon coast.  In Fahrenheit, Moore points to the one part-time trooper within 100 miles of coast, and makes it appear this man, singularily, is responsible for keeping boats of terrorists at bay.  State tax dollars do not go to border patrol; this is something that federal agencies specialize in; federal police and the Coast Guard.

Personally though, I think Moore included that scene, more than anything, as an excuse to give us yet another slice of small town rural Americana, like he does with Tappahannock VA, or in "Roger & Me" when he includes the totally extraneous scene of a woman building up an Amway buisness.  In this instance he couldn't resist the temptation to make a direct link between the lack of troopers and Bush's incompetence.

Another valid point, illustrated via FahrenHYPE's contributors, is that the US - Saudi relationship is a delicate, flawed relationship which stems all the way back to 1945, and that one can find ample pictures of every American president hamming it up with the Saudi elite.  This does illustrate one tenet of Moore's movie: it focuses so singularily on Bush's administration that the less-educated viewer might think "Crap.  Our government had so much openness and integrity before the criminal regime of Bush Inc."  In reality, Bush's policies, though more aggressive and transparent than his predecessors, are the culmination of fifty years of US imperialism.  This might take a slight amount of heat off Bush personally, but it doesn't excuse our government's imperialism.

(It is worthy to note, however, that in "Bowling for Columbine," Moore does highlight the larger context of US foreign policy from 1945-present.)

OK, now to rebut the more ridiculous criticisms:

First, there's the "mountain-out-of-molehill" school of criticism of Moore's movie:

That in the Florida classroom, the children were reading to the president, not the other way round!  Second, the amount of time Bush was sitting there was actually five minutes, not seven!  Third, Porter Goss' phone number was not a 1800 number, but a 1-877 toll free number!

Needless to say, the above criticisms do not stand up affirmatively to the question "Does this alter the validity of the message of Moore's film?"

Election 2000:  Shot of Katherine Harris declaring that Bush won.  Remember, Katherine Harris was the secretary of state, which also meant she was the Florida vote-counter for Bush.  FahrenHYPE completely avoids the Black voter disenfranchisement issue.  It does however focus on a shot of an editorial Moore used, from Bloomington Illinois' PANTAGRAPH paper.  Apparently, Moore blew up the headline and rearranged the paragraphs so that they would fit the movie screenshot.  The paper was offended and asked Moore for an apology, which he rightfully did not issue, as he did nothing wrong.

After 10 minutes of the FahrenHYPE's contributors reminiscing about the patriotism and heroism of the police and firefighters on 9/11, obviously included to put the viewer back into the immediate 9/11 aftermath mindset, political operative Dick Morris starts attacking Clinton for eight years of failure to stop 9/11.  No hard facts are presented that Clinton was asleep at the wheel; to the contrary, Clinton's team thwarted many domestic al-Qaeda attacks, most notably a Y2K (late 1999) plot to blow up Los Angeles international airport.  Why?  Because they took warnings seriously.  Clinton met with Richard Clarke for terrorism briefings every day.  Bush had a clear warning on August 6, 2001 and ignored it.  Of course, none of this is mentioned in FahrenHYPE.

Moving on to Afghanistan and the whole Unocal thing:  what Dick Morris and company are saying IS TRUE:  Unocal DID explore an Afghan pipeline deal during the Clinton period (when Dubya was governor) and the plan WAS dropped.  But they don't tell you the rest of it, because it proves Moore's point.  The REASON it was dropped was because Unocal couldn't negotiate with the Taliban.  Once the Taliban was out of power after 9/11, plans for the pipline could resume.

Well, this review is getting long, but to just rebut one more criticism in HYPE: Moore's "emotional manipulation" of his audience.  While it is true that Moore is a master of this, Fahrenheit justifies its use.  In HYPE, Hardy and Clarke ("Michael Moore is a Big Fat Stupid White Man") use the exact example I knew they would:  Moore's footage of Iraqi children playing, followed by the US bombing of Baghdad.  Clarke says, "Moore shows you children flying kites, then immediately cuts to the bombing, and the viewer associates the bomb damage with the children.  In actuality the bombs were directed at Saddam's military targets and bunker."

This would be valid criticism were it not for two things:  First, there have, to date, been over 100,000 Iraqi civilian deaths.  Second, Moore immediately follows the bombing footage with footage of a pickup truck full of dead bodies, including at least one child!  Hardy/Clarke's point here is null and void, and clearly directed toward partisans who refuse to see Mr. Moore's movie.

Oh, and the amputee who's outraged over being included in Fahrenheit and disagrees with Moore's take on the war:  he's in denial.  He's lost his leg and can't accept the fact that the reason he went to war could be a lie.  In a few years, when the ugly truth hits him, he'll be bitter.

Finally, toward the end, the right-wing hate reaches its artful conclusion:  "Michael Moore is un-American; he's not British... he must be French!"