Well, here we are again. Another run with the deeply flawed version of the series. And in sets that will no doubt be running you up to over $100 before they decide to cancel and release in season sets.

Now don't get me wrong, I grew up on this series, it was my favorite anime as a kid. But then I got older and began noticing a few things. The acting was nowhere near what it should have been save for the redubbed first two seasons. The script was full of so many cheesy one-liners that it's ridiculous. The plot barely even MOVED half the time due to ungodly amounts of filler and most of all, the filler writers showed a distinct lack of respect for the manga's author.

Now I already feel the fanboys coming to throw a fit, so I'm going to set this up now: YES, there was disrespect toward Akira Toriyama here. NO, he didn't make too big a deal out of it. Why? Because he saw people enjoying it, it was an honor to see his series animated in the first place, as not every series got one at that time. He's a VERY humble man. But even he has stated he wished they hadn't gone so far at the time. Plus this was the same studio who had animated his first series without this level of disrespect.

Now HOW was it disrespectful? Well for one, they took it upon themselves to "develop" these characters in their own way. They added events and occurrences to shape their personality in such a way that the manga wound up taking a strong turn from and they had to find any excuse they could to cover it. And many of these occurrences and tales contradicted what the man had planned for later. Example: King Kai told Goku what he "saw" happen to Planet Vegeta, with their "Guardian" seeing the evil of the people and wiping them out via meteor as punishment for wiping out the "Tuffles". Several problems exist within this tale; first and foremost, who are they to decide that Raditz's comment about their planet being destroyed by a meteor needed this grand tale behind it? Second of all, if the Saiyans were engaged in all-out war on their own world, why in the world would they be sending soldiers off-world to conquer and sell other planets? They'd need all the manpower they could get. And third of all, it contradicted Toriyama's later revelation of Frieza. They actually had to create this ridiculous explanation that King Kai had "heard" the tale even though he said it was a witnessed event and that he had not learned of Frieza until he warned Goku... despite Frieza establishing an Empire in King Kai's section of space. Makes NO sense, does it?

Another notable example is a point during the 20 episode "Saiyan Training" Filler when Gohan grows his tail back and he and Piccolo encounter Goku's ship he came in as a baby. The ship puts out a projection of a Full Moon, Gohan sees it and turns into an Oozaru (Great Ape, Giant Monkey, take your pick) and Piccolo is forced to destroy the Pod in order to restore Gohan to normal. There are a few holes here as well. First off, Gohan merely sees a projection, a PICTURE of a full moon and transforms? Completely contradicts Vegeta's later explanation of how their power works, the need for Blutz Waves and why they needed to create the artificially in some cases. It also creates a hole in that you WATCH Piccolo blow it apart so badly there's nothing left, and yet somehow Dr. Brief later uses it as a base for the ship he builds Goku to go to Namek. Their explanation: He's Dr. Brief, he can just do that. Nice.

And that's just two examples of how Filler contradicted the manga plot. There's also the fact that it dragged out the pacing to an ugodly level with five minute staredowns and ten minute attack charging. There were annoying scenes of Bulma doing whatever that doesn't matter to the plot on Namek, Yajirobi having to narrate to the press everything we already knew about Saiyans and these characters, Roshi becoming more perverted than ever before, to the point he can't control himself it seems. (He even at one point gropes Bulma while she's mourning the death of her longtime boyfriend and his own student for pity's sake!) Roshi was not that out of control and could be quite serious when the situation demanded.

As for the acting quality, it's pretty below average at points. Now taking into account that they wound up having to dub the show themselves due to a lack of money, and that many of these people had never voice acted before, they did do a good job and should be commended for it. But the first several episodes that they tried to record were extremely awkward. They were trying to sound like the old actors for the sake of consistency for one, but also the lack of experience was showing. Add to that the fact that Sean Schemmel (Goku) was kinda going through a depression at the time and sounded like he was obviously just READING the script (Such as Goku's half-asleep "Frieeeza, stoooop thiiis." when he's about to kill his best friend)and it was odd. They soon fell into the roles however and began to make them their own. However, the lack of experience and over-abundance of growls and far-too-gruff voices remained for quite a while. Granted, you can live with it, but it's especially noticeable in these sets, as they had to redub the first 50 or so episodes with their current crew in order to distribute them. That means you have a far more experienced dub (albeit with the cheesy lines in tact) with much better acting RIGHT before you get slammed with the lower quality dub. Far more noticeable than it used to be.

Now again, I'm not TRYING to slam the series, just pointing out some things that people fail to see about it up there on the shrine they place it on. This series is fine if you wanna relive some memories as a kid, or a gift for someone aged 12-16. But if you want a serious tale with better pacing, better acting/writing and more intensity, read the manga. Or watch the uncut Kai sets. That's the way the series was meant to be told. But there are still memories associated with this series, and it introduced most of us to anime in the first place. For that I am forever grateful.