Probably not, but I will.

Having recently watched this movie again, I decided to rework one of my earlier reviews while it is fresh in my mind. And I find that my earlier opinion remains the same, but am now able to articulate it with greater clarity. So I say again:

Anyone who dislikes Jane Austen as a rule, or finds her wit to be far too subtle, her characters too well-behaved, and her impossibly happy endings not happy enough, might enjoy this version of _Pride and Prejudice_. Of course, I do not intend to insult anyone who liked the film (I hope I have better netiquette than to do so in such a forum), because this version is not without its good points, which people with differing tastes might appreciate. And, certainly, those who have never seen another film adaptation of the novel, nor ever read P&P (or read it so long ago that they have forgotten the particulars), might be entertained.

That's because, in its own way, the 1940 movie is attractive, light, somewhat amusing, and fast-paced. It has some truly charming moments, some well-crafted dialogue, and many of the performances were quite good. But, as films of the 40s go (and I have watched many), it is nothing special. For that reason, in my opinion, the film cannot overcome the myriad inconsistencies, inaccuracies, and miscastings that plague it. Again, these flaws might not bother anyone who is neither a student of British history, a costumier, nor a Jane Austen enthusiast. And had the movie been superb on every other level, I might still have enjoyed it, warts and all. But the flaws are too numerous to allow me to suspend my disbelief. To name a few:

1) The costumes. Perhaps the producers thought that the American public was too unsophisticated or too dazzled by the previous year's _Gone with the Wind_ to appreciate authentic Georgian or Regency dress. But even I, upon first viewing this movie at the tender age of 14, was irritated that the flounces, hoop skirts, and ringlets of the antebellum South had found their way into turn of the 19th century England. I read somewhere that the director did not like the empire waisted gown. Why does that matter? Imagine if someone in the future made a movie version of a novel set in our time, but dressed the men in zoot suits and gave the women bouffant updos, simply because they didn't like our current fashions. It might not bother some people, but it would irritate the heck out of me.

2) Lizzy. Greer Garson (at nearly 40) was far too matronly and cynical to play the part of the lively, 20-year-old Elizabeth Bennet. (Even Mary is more attractive than she!) That is not to say that Garson is not handsome, she is, but she sneers her way through the film with bad humor and affected elegance. This is not her fault, I'm sure, but the result of bad direction. She weeps for no apparent reason, and her smiles never quite reach her eyes. Her hairstyle is unflattering and her American Civil War gowns make her look a bit stout. Better the producers should have cast the (then) young, lively, charming Vivien Leigh and completed the transformation from Jane Austen's timeless comedy of manners to Margaret Mitchell's overblown melodrama. (From what I understand, at the time, nearly every actress on two continents wanted to play Scarlett O'Hara, and many of the rejected made costume pictures in that vein for several years afterward--like Bette Davis's _Jezebel_. This appears to be one of them.)

3) Darcy. Laurence Olivier plays Darcy as too lively, expressive, and even charming. He is, in fact, almost foppish, and a little fey (not that there's anything wrong with that!). In fact, he plays Darcy in a manner diametrically opposed to David Rintoul in the first BBC version, who was so stoic and emotionless he almost seemed to be a robot sometimes, but seemed to be closer to what Austen intended. Olivier's Darcy is certainly unlike any Darcy I ever imagined. But, then, I am not a big fan of Olivier's film work (heresy in some circles, I know), and have only enjoyed one or two of his movie performances. (I liked him in _Rebecca_, and he was one of the best Heathcliffs I have seen.) Once again, however, I concede that the acting choices were likely the fault of the directors and the script, so it may be unfair to blame Olivier himself. In any case, portraying Darcy as lively and kindly almost invalidates Lizzy's dislike of him, and thus undermines one of the most crucial plot points.

4) The music. I heartily dislike film music that overshadows plot, character, and script. Perhaps I am being overly picky, but I found the score, which might not have been out of place in a Frank Capra comedy, intrusive and corny. And let's not forget the waltzing--ehem! Just another anachronistic touch likely to irk those who know better.

5)The plot changes. Everyone knows that to compress a novel into a 2 hour film, one must make changes--and so I actually applaud the smooth way the film compressed some of the dialogue from the book's critical early scenes into a single ballroom dance. But must Lady Catherine turn out to be a good guy? Was Austen's impossibly happy ending just not happy enough for Hollywood audiences? Some of the changes were absolutely unnecessary, made no sense, and were clearly designed to suit audiences of the day and the tastes Hollywood assumed they possessed. But then, as now, I think the Hollywood producers underestimated the sophistication of their audience.

And here's another nitpick that might seem inconsequential to many, but annoyed me no end: Lizzy's refusing to dance with Darcy, then immediately accepting Wickham (all the while decrying Darcy's bad manners), is a laughable, almost inexcusable, error. Such an act would have been considered quite vulgar, and its inclusion in the film exemplifies the sort of fundamental misunderstanding of the book and the era that irritates me so. It just seems sloppy. But again, this would only bother someone who was acquainted with the etiquette of the day and to whom such inaccuracy is a pet peeve.

Have I left any stone unturned? It seems to me, that, having panned the costumes, lead actors, plot changes, and music, there is very little left for me to criticize about this film. So why did I give it two stars instead of one? That goes back to my first paragraph--the script would have been fine for a "modern" 1940s Hollywood comedy. Even the performances might have suited a _My Favorite Wife_ or _Divorce of Lady X_. In fact, had this been a different movie, one that did not pretend to be based on one of English literature's best-beloved novels, it might have passed for a mildly entertaining, if unremarkable, effort.

In short, I do not hate this film, but I must concur with many other Austen fans who, to my knowledge, tend to consider this the worst of the 3 (soon to be 4) extant film adaptations. The new Keira Knightley version may be poised to steal that crown, however. We'll see.