I'm not alone in my thinking of the first Superman movie as the very best comic book adaptation of all as well as a GREAT accomplishment in film making.  The (original, theatrical) Superman II was a great success as well, however, it lacked the grand qualities of the first installment.

So what happened?  This DVD tells that story (as well as some quick searching on the internet will find as well)

Under no circumstances should you get this without seeing the original theatrical release of Superman II.  This cut simply isn't finished.  It is a compilation of what they were able to find that was shot by Superman I director Richard Donner and restore it to make what is *almost* the complete Superman II theatrical movie.  Again, every foot here was shot by Donner (or by assistant directors under his supervision).  It's explained that Richard Lester, the director finally credited for Superman II, had to do > 50% of the film in order to get that film credit.  So they had to remove a lot of Donner's work, and insert some of Lester's work for him to get the final director's credit.

While the restoration represents a great accomplishment, without it being complete, not to mention other problems (see below) it doesn't really stand on its own for others besides film buffs and fans of these movies.  There are many "in between" shots missing, choppy editing and the ending is a complete film school exercise because as is freely admitted in the commentary, it was used in the first movie and they were going to come up with something for the second, but didn't get to do that, and so there it is.  Any greater expectations will be disappointed.

For fans, however, the video is very interesting. IF you have the original Superman II to reference, you'll see (by way of omission in this disc) what they took out, what Lester DID do (like the slapstick touches in the midtown "blowdown") and you'll be able to see how they managed to piece it all together.

I have tremendous respect for Richard Donner, but his commentary (without which this DVD would be nearly worthless) comes off as quite bitter at times.  But, considering that Donner was about 85%-90% done (as you can see from this), when the rug was pulled out from under him, even after Superman I became such an incredible success, I understand why Donner harbors such ill will toward Lester (whose name is never mentioned in this) and company.  You can tell Donner is holding back what he really wants to say.

The one truly great value of this DVD is showing the scenes with Marlon Brando, showing the story arc of the father and the son, and how that basic narrative and story arc was completely lost in the theatrical version.  For that, I can only recommend this for those truly interested.

For others, however, especially those who haven't seen the original theatrical release, I would recommend AGAINST getting this.