Lets face it, Congo and Sphere just both bombed one after the other, but Jurrasic Park sure showed what you can do with a great author's story when you combine it with a great director. Point taken that the movie does not follow the book, but I think it made it appear to people in another way of what might happen if someone of Crichton's level remade his story.

Jurrasic Park is the story of a man named John Hammond, well in his senior years, who is a billionaire that decides to open a park on an island off the coast of Costa Rica. There is one difference with his park, or should I say, there is a big difference with his park.

His park has full grown disonasuars, from herbivores to carnivores, any type you can name of, and some you might did not know even exist. To show that his park is safe, Hammond decides to invite several guests to his park for a special tour. They include two palenantologists, a mathematician, a lawyer from the company Hammond owns name InGen, and Hammonds own grandchildren.

Sam Neil plays Alan Grant, the head hancho in my opinion, who is obsessed with dinosaurs and doesn't really know what to think of the park. Laura Dern plays Ellie Sattler, the second paleantologist, who thinks that the park isn't a good idea. And then you have the best character in the movie, again my opinion, Jeff Goldblum, whos plays Ian Malcom, who hates the idea of bringing the dinosaurs back to life.

The park tour goes smoothly, if not for some sick triceratops and some no shows at some exhibits, but when a storm comes, and a park employee decides to cash in on the embryos with the Dino's DNA, thats when the movie gets really interesting.

The Dinosaurs are some of the best special effects you will ever see, I guarantee it, even if you hate the plot you have to respect the power the dinos are shown in. A lot a mayhem, and a especially scary scene when the T-Rex gets out makes this a super chiller.

But the good part of the movie are when the Velocoraptors get out, now they are the truly nasty son's of b*tches. And the Dinosaur that has a fin on his neck is trully creepy. [I know it sounds funny, but when you see it spit acid maybe you wouldn't want to meet it face to face afterall.]

Luckily all the annoying people get killed; So if you think someone should just shut up when he or she talks don't worry, they probably will be silenced for good. Although I did like Samuel L Jackson's character in it, but why kill him off, he was cool. [Sorry if I ruined that part to those who haven't seen it]

I enjoyed this movie, it truly is a classic, and if Spielburg directed, you know you will get your money's worth, no matter what happens in it. Also look for the incredible special effects, both terrifying and aw-inspiring, add all those things up and you have yourself a great movie.