I was all set to buy the Battlestar Galactica: Complete Series Blu-Ray release, even though the thing is so expensive I was practically going to have to take out a second mortgage on my house to afford it. But for whatever reason, Universal has chosen not to include the Face of the Enemy webisodes on the Blu-Ray or DVD releases of Battlestar Galactica: Series 4.5 or Battlestar Galactica: The Complete Series. Since I want a complete story, not just the parts Universal arbitrarily feels like sharing at the moment, I no longer intend to purchase the set. While this turn of events is actually to my financial advantage, I am disappointed nonetheless, as I was really looking forward to owning this show on Blu-Ray.

I know some would argue that the webisodes are still available online and I can watch them there. While that's true, why should I have to pay hundreds of dollars for a high-def Blu-Ray product that I'm going to watch on a large, flat-screen TV only to have to watch what is a (to some more than others) critical part of the story via a low-def YouTube clip on a tiny computer monitor? That seems to sort of miss the mark...

And to those who would say that the webisodes were not part of the series and therefore Universal isn't required to include them in a Complete Series release, you are technically correct; Universal can still slide by with calling this a "Complete Series" without the webisodes, since it includes every episode of the TV series proper. But that doesn't make it a complete story, which is what I'm looking for. Note that a few years ago, when Twin Peaks: Season 1 was released without the pilot movie (which was unavailable due to some really bizarre international licensing issues and not technically part of the first season), the set's packaging and promo materials were up-front about the pilot's absence; Universal has made no such concession, as they clearly want folks to be suckered into buying this without knowing that they are missing what equates to about a full episode's worth of story and some rather critical information about a character (particularly as it relates to actions that character takes later in the series, which some argue seem a bit out-of-character without the context of the webisodes).

So, Universal, thanks for saving me all that money, but maybe next time, instead of using so much of your own money to come up with that ridiculous disc packaging that so many people on here seem to despise, you'll put some of it towards overcoming whatever (I'm guessing) minor obstacles arose that precluded from including the webisodes and giving fans a complete story.

Just sayin'.

(P.S. I've heard rumblings that Universal plans to make the Face of the Enemy webisodes avaible via another means. I remain skeptical since the correct time for them to release this part of the story was with the Complete Series and 4.5 sets, and they've given no concrete evidence that they are really going to do this; if they were too lazy to do it when people were paying hundreds of dollars for a Complete Series set release, why would they do it for anything else? However, if Universal really does find a way to provide those who purchased these sets with Blu-Ray copies of the webisodes, I may change my opinion.)