Absolutely one of the best films I've seen.  "Good Will
Hunting" debunks a commonly held myth of the link of formal
education with intelligence.  In fact, so many "brains" have
been so "different", that running with the herd in a regular
job can be difficult.  Will is a mathematical genius who does not need
to pursue it publicly.  However, others see this as a golden
opportunity for society and Will.
Given the often believed
psychological premise that people want what they cannot have, Will
does not find challenging that which is most people who have worked
very hard to accomplish some of the extremely advanced mathematic
skills that come all to natural to Will, deeply feel he must pursue
this, because they know what potential he has - and they would die to
have that ability. Will, on the other hand, really could care less!
He exhibits his passionate loyalty to his blue collar roots, and no
degree of academic prestige is going to diminish this deeply ingrained
part of Will.  
This brings us back to identity studies, and
following a vocation and/or lifestyle based on inner self, as
Neo-Freudian, Erik Erikson, and further identity researchers of the
20th century, honed in on.  Why should Will fool himself?  "To
thine own self be true."
Robin Williams, who ultimately
counsels Will, once again, is excellent, as he emphasizes the
"important" things in life.  Given that, he and Will strike
a common thread - one that changed both of their lives.  He brought
out a realization in Will that no one had "pulled out".  And
this experience has powerfully affected the counselor as well.  Thus,
this is more internally rewarding than any fields medal, which the
professor who encouraged Will to pursue his mathematical genius, had.

Will, having read extensively, but is a also a perceptual genius,
interprets a painting in Robin's room, which elicts such incredible
upsetting emotions in Robin; however, Robin comes back to teach Will
that, yes, you can speak in books, but I can in experience - and he
then opens Will up to some of the finest pursuits in life.
Robin
"touches" Will in a way which ultimately brings Will to
decide things he would not have.  He brought him to see a part of
himself he didn't know he had, and knowing it came from this
counselor, who has also been through so much pain, Will can himself
trust and validate his words.
Once again, Excellent Story!