The three stars I have given are there only because the Amazon page requires me to pick, so I have chosen a neutral number since this is not really about the movie.  To explain...
This is by way of a meta-review, that is, a commentary on how to consider the reviews here rather than the TV production or even the book.  DON'T BELIEVE ANY OF THEM!  Not, at least, until you have the information to judge them on your own.
This does not mean 'watch the tape or DVD' or even 'read the book', because neither of those will give you the necessary understanding of the central character.  Even the Academy Award nominated biographical documentary, "Ayn Rand: A Sense of Life", while very good, still cannot give you enough information since it is only a few hours long and cannot possibly cover the full scope of this remarkable woman.
The reviews here range from nasty to quite good, but you can't be sure which is which until you understand what all the fuss is about, and the ONLY way to do that is to read what Ayn Rand wrote.
Most people start with her two main novels, "The Fountainhead" and "Atlas Shrugged", and they are worth reading even if only as examples of great fiction.  However, you should not stop there, because she wrote broadly of her views on morality, political theory, art, and the deepest intricacies of philosophy, but she also wrote on a myriad of smaller subjects, like her stamp collecting, or why she liked Marilyn Monroe, or what music she liked.  It is in the breadth of her writing that you can find the real Ayn Rand.
As I have always warned people, don't believe a thing anyone tells you about Ayn Rand (including me) until you know enough about her.  If you are truly interested in what she really was like, you need to first read four or five of her books (you pick).  Learn what she had to say and judge for yourself.  Then you will be able to understand why some people are so attracted to her and others so hate her, and why some of these reviews are valid and others are not.  But you have to do it yourself.