High school graduates Kelley (Chris Klein), Sam (Leelee Sobieski), and Jasper (Josh Hartnett) get caught up in an odd love triangle in a small Massachusetts town. It's a mildly interesting plot, and hasn't been done to death in the usually blah teen flick genre, so it has that going for it. Klein plays a preppy, wealthy, snotty Princeton freshman who hits on Hartnett's girlfriend, Sobieski, one night at Sobieski's family diner. For some reason, two mostly level headed guys start going at each other, and a testerone-filled race down dirt roads begins. To avoid hitting the pedestrians, the two boys end of hitting a gas station, which blows up the restaurant. Not sure how accurate that is, but it's not important. Funny to note, however, that although most of the blame is put on Klein's character for the fire, he was the one that managed to avoid hitting any people, buildings, or other cars. Hartnett's character escapes with very little blame, but he was the one that actually hit the gas station and caused the disaster. Hm. Leelee Sobieski is a fine actress, but this is not her movie. She goes from flirty and boring to sentimental and boring, with very little in between. That might be because she's never given any good lines in this rather mediocre script, but mostly it's just because the characters is boring. Not enough life. Chris Klein gets a lot of grief for being a lame actor that only gets by on his looks (which are oddly perfect). Not so! In this film, he proves the saving point, turning a bit of teen movie yuck into a well-acted picture. He is very, very good, downplaying his good looks and going almost entirely with his uncanny talent. Delightful and suprising pleasure to watch. Hartnett's character is a bit too perfect to be really interesting - he has no flaws! But is well acted nonetheless. A fairly good movie, maybe worth watching once or twice. Because of so-so script and some stereotypical characters, however, it never really becomes the great movie it could have been.