I saw this film at Radio City Music Hall when it was first released and, immediately after, dragged my mother a few blocks north to Sam Goody to buy the soundtrack -- it made quite an impression on my then 11-year-old self.  I remember all the hoopla that attended its release: Baskin Robbins even had a Lucy-as-Mame inspired ice cream flavor!  (Was it peach?)

Watching the DVD today, I can see that the film has its problems.  These are not unique to Mame, however, but are shared with nearly all the bloated, overlong musicals of the late 60s and early 70s (Hello Dolly, Star!, Doctor Doolittle, among them): the production overwhelms the story, which is, frankly, pretty slight.  Most of the second half is just silly stuff: Gooch's night on the town, Patrick's fiance's snobby, bigoted family, Vera's return to Mame's side.  The movie feels too long.

I had absolutely no problem with Lucille Ball's close-ups.  Who cares whether they used a filter?  They did the same thing with Doris Day in every movie she made from Pillow Talk on, as well as her TV show.  It served not only to mask wrinkles, but also to create a romantic mood, to idealize a star.  In Mame, there are plenty of medium shots with no filtering whatsoever.  You're never thinking that Lucy is striving to look 30.  Overall, she looks terrific and her costumes are flattering and often witty.  She was a big star and she got the star treatment.  That's part of what makes the film irresistable today -- you don't see that kind of care and craftsmanship much today.  Lucy is in nearly every frame, her name is above the title, she SHOULD be allowed look great.

Lucy's not really right for the role, of course.  She's an everywoman clown, not a witty sophisticate.  She lacks the bite of a Roz Russell (or Eve Arden) in her delivery.  But she's extremely likeable and at times moving.  Yes, she's a decade or two older than the character as originally conceived, but so what?  She is no Mae West in Sextette -- there's nothing creepy about her in the role.  Julie Andrews was at least a decade older than Maria Von Trapp was supposed to be in Sound of Music, Audrey Hepburn even older than that as Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady.  Remember, Lucy had been playing at least a decade younger since I Love Lucy, and quite convincingly.  In her prime she was great looking.

Lucy doesn't have much of a voice but she pulls off the songs.  Mame does not need to be a singer.  Lucy dances gracefully and seems pretty spry to me.  Whether she is having a good time, however, is hard to tell. I read that she was very anxious during the production, and sometimes her frivolity feels forced. Was her heart really in it?  Who knows...

All the sets are overlit, there's very little texture to the film.  Most of the interior scenes feel like an Aaron Spelling production: too bright, too clean, too 70s.  The supporting cast is strong and Beatrice Arthur is very, very funny.  She and Lucy have good chemistry, as do she and Robert Preston, who doesn't have much to do, sadly.

The problem is the musical adaptation itself: the songs sentimentalize the already sentimental story.  Many of them -- particularly the title number -- break the flow of the story and dull the original play's acid wit.  It's hard for me to imagine this being any better with Angela Lansbury, who was never a particularly charismatic screen presence.

Watch Mame for the good songs, high energy, camp value, lavish production, and of course, Lucy.  It's certainly worth revisiting.