Honestly, for those of you who have yet to heed the warnings of the other reviewers who have claimed that this movie is a travesty, you really ought to do yourselves a favor and actually find a way to see the original film, like I did. Fortunately I saw the original before I saw this god-awful thing.

Though the original is by no means a movie you'll be able to refrain from laughing at (the machine used to kill Godzilla is called the Oxygen Destroyer, for Christ sakes), there's an entirely relevant load of substance to the Japanese characters  subtly portrayed in the Americanized version that the movie itself loses all of its dignity along with all of that substance. Though to some (including myself) both versions were a laugh-fest due to the fact the primitive methods used to portray special effects in the 1950s are hilarious, the Japanese version included a very touching romance between Hideto Ogata and Emiko Yemani that ended tragically and heroically through Ogata's selfless sacrifice in order to put a stop to Godzilla. This emotional scene is completely ruined in the American version with constant incoherent cuts to Raymond Burr's ugly mug. Those who have seen the Japanese version might have actually taken a break from their laughter to perhaps realize the same moral learned by those who saw the same movie in Japan when it was first released, too. Every shred of evidence that this movie is an allegory to the disastrous affects of the a-bomb usage has been deleted. So,the original has character substance. However, if you're watching this DVD's version you'll get nothing but a man in a rubber suit thrashing about with fishing line attached to his tail so he can knock down a train or two until there's an arbitrary cut to Burr's face wide-eyed with astonishment.

If you love Godzilla for the laughs I highly recommend this title, as it is shoddy 1950s special effects at their comedic zenith. However, if you would like to see why so many appreciated the original film (as well as laugh at the outrageous name given to the device given to Godzilla that's mentioned seriously a hundred times) then I would highly recommend you do some research and find some means of watching the original "Gojira." I saw it at a local independent theater, though there's rumor that it may be headed to DVD this winter.