Of the many films I have in my DVD library, "Bound" is a truly unique and engrossing thriller. The cinematography, acting, editing, music and script are all finely honed to a razor-sharp edge. For a debut film by the Wachowski Brothers this set the mark very high in regards to quality. Even with a limited budget everything in this film simply works beyond all expectations.

If you have friends who thought they have seen some thrillers I recommend that they are shown this film. I'm pleased to have it in my collection.

Granted, I really wanted to give this disc a five-star rating. The DVD navigation menus are not just generic but plain awful. It's hard to see which selection is highlighted since the color shading is so close. Even worse, this masterpiece hasn't been given the proper 16:9 anamorphic progressive scan transfer that it deserves. Instead it's a letterboxed 4:3 interlaced transfer. I'll venture a guess that a lot of Artisan Entertainment's early releases (now Lionsgate) suffer similar flaws. After all who'd know that 16:9 widescreen would become a standard? The only saving grace for its current DVD version is that it's region-free.

I do have to give props for the audio mix. It's very clean with lots of play in just the right places. There's no analog hiss or other distortions. And the audio commentary by not just the actors but also the Wachowski Brothers themselves is quite entertaining. But the real standout in the commentary is Jennifer Tilly. As soon as she enters the track it livens up even more. So not only do you learn about the background of the film and its production (there's some nice discussion of the lesbian symbolism employed within the film) but also the high level of camaraderie between the participants.

So while this is not my favorite DVD it is one of my all time favorite films. I hope that someday the Wachowski Brothers can return to it and help create a fitting release that takes full advantage of the technology at hand. A high-def restoration and release would certainly make me a convert to BluRay just to show it off not just to showcase the technology but also to showcase this work of cinematic art.

It's worth a buy but only if you can accept the technological limitations of the current version. I found mine in a bargain bin for $5. Maybe you can get lucky and find it at that price as well. So until it's re-released it's worth looking for.