Get ready for a long-winded review. Even though, as a hardcore horror fan, I knew not to get my hopes up about this movie, I couldn't help but be excited. Judging from the trailer, even if it was stupid, I was sure that it would be fun. There were so many things they could have done with that idea, and the trailer suggested all sorts of cool story lines. So I got together with some friends to watch it, and bit by bit, we were all let down. I'll break down the main problems into parts, but first, I'll point out the stronger areas.

While both were flawed in various ways, the frame story (involving the men who are sent to get a VHS tape) was interesting, and the last story looked cool and obviously had used up most of the budget. There were a handful of genuinely creepy moments, like the *first* half of the webcam one (not the second half), and parts of the last one. I also liked how the frame story ended as far as creepy factor goes, but not as far as how it tied into the rest of the movie. We also laughed a couple of times when the movie was actually trying to be funny. So there were some interesting elements at work, and perhaps the person who created this has some potential deep down.

Now for the bad. Here are the reoccurring issues that played the biggest part in ruining this movie for me:

1. Horrible decisions on the parts of the characters. This fell into several frustrating tropes in horror, including the age old "I fell and got a booboo so I can't run anymore, even though there's a crap ton of adrenaline pumping through my system," and "I would rather run head first into danger than contact the police." A lot of the characters who die earn it early on, and not just because most of them are jerks.

2. There were too many clumsy attempts at twists, and the "surprises" fell flat. If the turn of events ruins everything you set up, or veers off of the original path in an awkward fashion, you missed your mark. The biggest offender for me was the webcam one, which was the only short I actually liked initially.

3. Boobs. Now this one is probably a plus for a good percentage of people, but even the guys present at our viewing were like, "Seriously?" Yes, yes, we get it. People like to look at boobs. Do you really need to find every excuse possible to get some on the screen? It just started to get annoying. Of course, if that were the movie's only flaw, I wouldn't have cared, but with everything else it did wrong, I felt the need to point it out. (There's male nudity as well, so maybe they just had a genital quota to make or something.)

4. Awkward acting and slow pacing. I'm actually a fan of build up, so I didn't mind so much that nothing would happen for long stretches of time, but most people, my friends included, found it to be quite annoying, and the movie missed a lot of opportunities to make things creepy. The majority of the time you're just getting shaky shots aimed at people eating or looking at cowboy hats. Also, other than the fact that virtually no one in this film was likable, several of the women and most of the men acted like they were supposed to be mentally challenged as well. Honesty, I'm wondering if maybe the girl in the webcam short was in fact supposed to be mentally disabled in some way, just based on the way she was talking and behaving, and the way the guy was talking to her. I can't be sure, though.

5. The biggest one for all of us was that these shorts often made no sense and never offered any explanation. Yes, horror isn't required to explain why something scary occurs, but now and then, maybe you should give the audience a hint at least. Otherwise, you're just left with a bunch of questions as to why anyone is doing the things that they're doing. In addition, only one, maybe two of them had any sort of logical conclusion, and by that, I mean horror universe logic. As in, does this ending support the information we've already offered about these people? The last two especially had the weirdest endings. I felt myself asking over and over, why did that even happen? What does that mean? Isn't that a really, really roundabout way of getting what you want? Basically without anything to back up what was happening, it all just felt like a cop out. It was if someone had some creepy ideas but not the writing skills necessary to bring it all together, so they were like, "Screw it, I'm doing it anyway."

Ultimately, I walked away from this experience feeling let down. I was very sad, because it was a great idea in my opinion, and they just didn't take it where it could have gone. I gave the movie two stars rather than one, because somehow, a part of me is still secretly hoping that something will click and I'll realize the film was better than I thought.