I checked this movie out for the cast and thought I could do no wrong cause I'm a big fan of De Niro, Statham and Owen.  My first impression that something was amiss was when the main "elite killer" (Statham) turns his back on a wounded armed baddie and decides to look out the window during a stealthy escape.  There are a number of WTF moments like that, and it's sad because I think the movie has some good stuff to show.  It's not a horrible movie but it isn't a great one either.

I mostly enjoyed plot aspects like Statham's group being hired to kill 3 guys while yet another group (Owen's group) notices this and starts to observe Statham's group.  So there are some inter-group dynamics that get pretty interesting by the time the guy in the black helicopter shows up (MFWIC).  Then there is the committee that sort of controls Owen's group except when it doesn't.

My point is there are some complex group dynamics at play.  It takes some effort to keep track of it all, but it is interesting even when it's hard to understand everyone's motive right away.  I also enjoyed the aspect of Statham's work that involved making all his hits look like accidents.  It reminded me of Mission Impossible a bit and I think that could have been expanded on more.  And some of the action was well done with a few original embellishments.

But how can you believe a group like Statham's are elite killers when one of the recruits does some unbelievably dumb stuff?  Or is the title half satire?  Apparently professional killers don't look for qualifications in their hiring.  Unless of course "I'm schtupping his Mother" is a reference.

The movie seems fast paced to me not just because of the action but the frequent cuts between different scenes.  So I don't think everyone will have time to dwell on the gaping logical holes in the script.  Some bad dialog however is right in our face and the cliches are plain and painful.  I also wish the film had done more on scene work.  That can greatly help an action movie as it did in "Empire of the Wolves".

So I'm glad I saw this but I wouldn't own it.  3.5 stars.