Ella Enchanted is by far one of my favorite books of all time.  In fact, I read my original copy so much, I had to purchase a new one after I started losing the cover, copyright page, first chapter ...  The story is truly heartwarming and genuine.

However, if it is your intention to enjoy this tale, please read the book.  Because this movie, despite the fact that all the characters have the same name, is so completely different from the book that it's a disgrace.  The movie is dolled up and modernized until it's unrecognizable from the simple story of a girl finding herself into a hiphop mistake that flounders in a world that Gail Carson Levine did NOT write.

The lead character, by far the most important, a young woman who is supposed to have backbone and strength of heart, is very poorly played by Anne (sorry if it's actually 'Ann') Hathaway whose self-consciousness is so evident on screen it's uncomfortable to the viewer.  Her talent only spreads so far in a story that means so much.  As she struggles to portray one of the most beloved females of modern literature among young girls today she fails miserably (though the horrible reconstruction of the story itself has something to do with that as it attempts to incorporate political intrigue in the lighthearted tale.)

The one redeeming quality of the movie is the tongue-in-cheek attitude some of the actors exhibited.  (Ms. Hathaway was not one.)  Hugh Dancy was fairly good (and quite good-looking--in fact I liked his performance, but being as I'm a young teenage girl and in love with fairytales, I'm biased) and seemed to play his role of prince less seriously and more as a joke, which was perhaps the initial intention of the film.  Yet it is Ms. Hathaway with her uncomfortable presence and awkward acting that pulls the movie down.

Its other small problems, including a very pleasant view of huge, naked ogre rears, might have been overlooked, but in the end the movie Ella Enchanted is nothing but a sad memory of the book loved by so many.

If you must watch it, please try to think of it as another story entirely.