I  guess  Jason  Voorhees  got  tired  of  the  old  country  and  decided  to  hack  some  flesh  urban  style  and  none  other  than  in  the  famous  New  York  City.  That  is  practically  what  the  movie  centers  around,  but  most  of  the  movie  takes  place  in  a  boat!  This  is  where  character  development  sets  in  and  most  of  them  are  the  same  type  of  horror  movie  white  trash (not  including  that  black  boxer  dude  that  later  gets  decapitatied  by  a  vicious  right  hook  from  Jason  Voorhees) most  of  them  not  very  appealing.  Especially  that  rock  star  chick  that  really  got  on  my  nerves,  perhaps  yours  as  well.  Anywho,  routine  kicks  in.  Two  teens  makin'  out  in  the  beginning,  a  chinese  character  starts  to  take  drugs  from  a  result  of  common  pier  pressure  until  the  teacher  steps  in.  You  might  not  agree  with  me,  but  the  only  character  worth  paying  attention  to  is  the  teacher.  He  is  believable,  trying  to  hold  the  teens  together  when  disaster  starts.  Of  course  he  is  a  little  snotty  with  the  kids  and  their  rules,  but  this  is  also  believable  for  him.  It  is  humorous  when  the  girl,  one  of  his  rambunctous  students,  tempts  him  for  love.  He  cant  resist  for  some  of  the  time,  but  gets  off  as  he  remembers  his  job  and  duty  as  a  teacher.  He  soon  realizes  a  nerdy  as  hell  director  tapes  it!  This  teacher  is  later  on  defined  as  a  sicko  when  you  discover  that  how  he  made  the  redhead  afraid  of  water.  I  saw  that  same  teacher  on  an  episode  of  "Three's  Company"  one  time.  There  are  not  very  many  good  actors  on  Friday  the  13th  flicks,  only  Corey  Fieldman  and  that  nerd  from  "Back  to  the  future"  which  were  both  on  number  4.  Corey  also  had  a  small  appearance  in  number  5.  Back  to  Manhattan.  Well  one  cool  add  in  was  that  Stephen  King( writer  like  myself )takes  a  stab  at  Jason.  You  would  have  to  see  it  ta  find  out  what  I  mean.  The  deaths  are  lame  as  ever  I  can  make  a  few  exceptions,  but  the  point  is,  Jason  barely  ever  uses  a  weapon  like  an  ax  or  a  machete.  He  offs  the  captain  rather  silently.  The  rule  is,  captain  always  dies,  see  Jaws.  Well  there  is  a  large  killcount,  I  can  give  it  that.  But  Jason  seems  supernatural  in  this  film  which  is  not  common.  He  often  appears  in  different  places  and  survives  a  hell  of  a  lot.  This  makes  his  character  less  believable  than  the  annoying  rock  star  chick.  When  the  slim  characters  "finally"  arrive  New  York  City,  it  gets  more  exciting,  but  still  kind  of  ridiculas.  The  only  filmaking  part  that  I  thought  was  well  designed  was  that  the  director  set  up  the  audience  for  New  York.  You  see,  in  the  beginning,  it  showed  places  the  characters  would  later  be  concerned  with.  That  was  a  cool  way  to  distribute,  I  sometimes  do  that  in  my  writing.  I  guess  that  is  what  the  boat  was  used  for.  Well,  there  are  bizzare  deaths  that  take  place  in  the  city,  some  of  them  laughable.  I  wont  say  anything  about  Jason's  demise,  see  that  for  yourself.  In  all,  it  was  entertaining  to  me,  I  guess  only  because  I  wanted  to  see  him  elsewhere  than  the  country.  It  was  longer  than  most  of  the  others.  Too  bad  the  dog  had  to  live.  I  personally  thought  the  song  for  that  movie  wasnt  half  bad,  had  an  average  tune.  It  was  played  in  the  beginning,  and  the  ending  credits.  Of  course  there  are  many,  many  cons  for  this  movie,  see  it.  It  isnt  a  waste.