This movie is weird!
Well for adults anyway.
 Now I freely admit I haven't read a lot of Tintin, but I always imagined him to be a boy,....oh say about 16/17 maybe.
The character as presented here is some sort of strange hybrid man/boy. He looks like a boy, (well sort of!), but has all the strength and abilities of a man,lives alone, carries and use guns frequently and is more than capable of knocking full grown huge thugs out with his fists.
It's sanitised of course, ......he shoots a lot but the direction is contrived so that you never see him actually hit anyone, ...much less kill them.

It was conflicting messages for me, but then as I mentioned above, I'm a bit of a newcomer to Tin-tin.
Positives first: It's BEAUTIFULLY drawn in most cases. Clever, ...even witty illustration in parts, specially during the wipes; and the textures and effects are visually very captivating. The water, the fire, etc. are exceptional.
I do have issues with the motion capture process used, which at times had some characters looking like a human actor's body just wearing a huge caricature mask over their head. This was most obvious on the Captain character.

Now I am one who can usually quite willingly park my brain in the foyer and suspend disbelief for the duration of a movie that creates a fantasy.
That being said, I enjoyed the beginning of this movie where it sort of stuck almost within the bounds of possibility, ...or even went just beyond.
However as it progressed, the action really "jumps the shark"! Shark? More like leaps the leviathan!

Yes I know it's a cartoon but the extreme and constant OTT exaggerated and impossible action scenes just left me saying "Yeah right, ...like THAT'S ever gonna happen" after a while.
And it's kept at that frenetic level for most of the second half.
Spielburg has never been one for restraint or subtlety in any of his movies, and let's just say he doesn't go against character in this one. There's certainly no build up to an exciting action bit, then releasing of tension so that it can be built up again sort of thing. It's just full-throttle all the time. All of which has the effect of over-kill for me
I would have appreciated just a little more of a nod to the original Herg&eacute; material by way of keeping it more "boys-own-adventure", rather than the Indiana Jones on hyper-steroids approach.
I certainly enjoyed it for the animation, ....apart from the bodies with big carnival heads I've already mentioned.

I still think Spielberg has "aged" Tintin too much, creating a conflict in the audience's mind between his appearance and what we see him do. Although I did notice he does NOT drink the champagne handed to him near the end. So it's apparently OK for a kid to possess guns and shoot at other people with intent to kill, but a sip of celebratory alcohol is a no-no?
As I said, ....a mental conflict.
All that said, I very much enjoyed the beginning, and the drawing, but its descent into constant OTT totally unbelievable action scenes lost even a minimal touch with reality which I think the story needed. A connection Herg&eacute; was always careful to preserve, even if his stories were still largely aimed at a young boy's imagination.