Other reviewers have covered the plot, the actors, and their reasons for the greatness of this movie.

I'd just like to add some additional thoughts for your consideration:
Like a few other reviewers, I was one of those who saw it as a kid when it first came out, and as my wife can attest, I literally checked the TV guide/newspaper every week for YEARS to see if would be on TV again.  YEARS.  It meant that much to me to see it again someday.  Finally it came out on video, with bad reviews about the image quality.  So I waited.  Then out on DVD.  YES!  It is all that what one would expect, the movie, no frills, no DVD extras (it was a TV movie), just pure greatness for 90-something minutes.  The best medicine for whatever ails you in this troubled world.

So who will like this?  Not people who don't like simple silliness.  Just everyone who does.  If you groan at bad puns, stay away.  If you love them, stop reading now and buy this.

What, you want to know more?  As a western, think of it as akin to Blazing Saddles (which is also one of my favorites of all time) without the social/racial commentary.  While Blazing Saddles kills with both hilarity and gravity, this one stays light.  Perhaps it is as key lime pie to BS' chocolate mousse.  Sorry - not!  Both awesome!  Fans of any comedic one-liner movies should find this an absolute joy.  Airplane, Young Frankenstein, Princess Bride, Hot Shots, even the campy Adam West Batman, all greats...

What puts it among the best is that it is character-based and engages you in the story, above and beyond the endless one liners.  Evil Roy is both evil and sympathetic.  This one has all the classic story lines mashed up to make a delightful romp.  Changing for love, the renegade self-made ne'er-do-well rises up against the big business overlord (and his stumpy index finger), the retired glamorous hero rides again.  And who can resist the voice of Mr. Haney from Green Acres as your narrator (ala George of the Jungle)?

We old-timers (60's and 70's TV viewers) can love it for spotting many favorite actors.  Families of all ages can love it for the clean humor.  Detail-comedy-geeks like me can also love it for the densely packed quotable lines and the details that come out in repeated watchings, like those who memorize the Holy Grail and other movies (count me in).  Other reviewers have mentioned some favorite quotes.  There are too many to repeat, so you can find your own.  But the "makes you want to spit" line, from when Evil Roy looks down over a cliff, has stuck in my repertoire over the years.  (I'm not a spitter, but the line stays with you when you look down from on high...)

Hope this intrigues you enough to make the buy, as you won't find it at your local library, either.
Peace and hilarity to one and all.