The insect hero of "Bee Movie" is angry that bees are given only one job that literally works them to death. But at least bees have one reason for their existence, which is one more than "Bee Movie" has.

The film, like many feature cartoons of late, is beautifully animated emptiness. It's lovely to look at, but then there's that troubling little detail called a story. The P.R. mill tells us that Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks studio okayed the movie after comedian Jerry Seinfeld cutely suggested the title to Spielberg over dinner one night. It only shows that some jokes should not be told at the dinner table.

Seinfeld voice-stars as Barry B. Benson, a cog in the bee circle of life. Having gotten his bee education -- four days of high school -- Barry is now expected to choose his sole vocation. But surely, Barry reasons, there's more to life than this. So one day, Barry breaks out and enters the human world.

Sadly, the one human Barry chooses to speak to is a vacuous florist named Vanessa (Renee Zellweger). This movie labors mightily over this slightly-above-platonic relationship. But if you think recent comedies about love affairs between babes and nerds are implausible, try working up a lather about the impending love affair between a babe and an insect.

From there, the movie veers into...not even a sub-plot, more like a side-plot. Barry discovers that generations of bees have labored to produce the honey that mean old humans casually swipe for themselves. So Barry launches a lawsuit to get the bees' honey returned to his own kind. After that, the movie veers into a pro-environmental message, which certainly has its place. But that place probably isn't a big-budget kiddie cartoon.

Seinfeld already has a huge human following -- is there some unknown bee demographic he's trying to reach? If bees could reason, I'm sure they'd be thrilled that their story is being thoughtfully told. Me, I'm not so moved.

The movie's tone is so desperate, the movie should have a drummer just off-screen, doing rim shots for each one-liner. Seinfeld does Barry as the type of screechily bad comic that his TV show used to lampoon. And the rest of the movie is "Flintstones"-type stuff, with cutesy jokes about workaday life, celebrity cameos (Larry King plays himself as a bee -- hysterical!), and lots of bad bee puns.

Even the movie's basic idea is a rip-off -- remember DreamWorks' "Antz" (1998), with Woody Allen as a drone ant? It's been almost a decade since a stand-up comic made his cartoon debut as a non-conformist insect. DreamWorks, I promise, nobody will complain if you let the concept die right here.

"Bee Movie" is rated PG for minor innuendo and bathroom humor.