It is a great pleasure to see this series brought to DVD.  I loved it when it was on NBC in the 1970s, and again in syndication.  It hasn't been seen much in the last 20 years and the TV version was changed for syndication.  I was really looking forward to experiencing the show as I knew it in the 1970s.

The quality of the transfer was excellent, and it was a great pleasure to see the original show opening credits again which were cut off for syndication in the 1980s.  I much prefer the original opens since they include that great Emergency! theme music by Nelson Riddle (the same guy who did the classic 1960s "Batman" series theme).

The organization of the DVD left a great deal to be desired.  There is a total lack of extra features.  Chapter breaks skip the show open, the opening and closing credits, and the last commercial break.  Universal included the current Universal movie logo at the beginning of each show, which got really annoying after the second episode and irked me because that was not the logo for Universal at the time the show was created.  Universal also spent the time and money to cut off the Universal Television logo, which for anyone who enjoyed that wonderful Nelson Riddle end credit music will miss since the Mark VII Ltd & Universal TV logos were such an integral part of the show music on the 1970s Universal shows.  Now they are gone, not to be enjoyed by the current generation.  This has been common across the current crop of Universal TV DVD releases and has been the greatest disappointment.  Shame on you, Universal.

In short, a mixed result.  Its great to see such a classic show on DVD.  However, the hamfisted handling of the DVD authoring and the silly exclusion of the Universal TV logo and the overbearing use of the current Universal movie logo make me believe the people who made the creative decisions for these discs were more interested in impressing their corporate masters than giving the viewer the original experience we had when the show was on NBC.  Our loss.