There's a great scene in this movie that occurs approximately an hour and nineteen minutes into its runtime. Cranky character actor Clu Gulagher and a few obnoxious teenagers are trapped in his medical supply warehouse by brain-hungry zombies, and the only phone available is located in the warehouse's basement, the door of which is locked and guarded by a particularly ravenous zombie. After retrieving a baseball bat, old Clu instructs one of the kids to open the door and the others to stand back. The door swings open to admit a repulsive, shambling undead horror, its flesh rotted to an oozing, tar-like substance after decades of storage in a sealed container. A good hard swing from Gulagher knocks the thing's head clean off, and he and his young associates rush past it. About a decade ago, a good friend and I rewound and watched this scene over a dozen times. While it's not as hilarious to me now as it was when I was very drunk and in my late teens, I still can't watch this inspired bit of stupidity without laughing.

Writer/director Dan O'Bannon cut his teeth while collaborating with John Carpenter on the latter's quirky sci-fi/comedy debut, Dark Star; a few years later, he penned a script for an obscure movie that a few people have seen called Alien. O'Bannon has worked sporadically over the past few decades, screen writing with occasional success, but this spin-off of George Romero's popular zombie movies is the only film in which he was able to convey his sick sense of humor and love of gore as he saw fit.

The result is impressive: Return is grotesque, cleverly plotted and very amusing, making the best of a tiny budget and third-rate cast. Hammy performances are abundant, and entirely appropriate for such a goofy script. Screen veteran Gulagher, who has plenty of experience in schlock productions, is particularly enjoyable to watch: when he calls a young punk "dick-brain," it's not unlike hearing your father when he's in a foul mood.

I can't fault the production design of this film. William Stout's effects are as excellent as they are vile, and it's clear that he shares O'Bannon's sensibilities in creating monsters that are equally comedic and repellent. This was clearly intended to be just another drive-in flick, and while I wouldn't call it a classic, it definitely ranks a cut above the average horror picture.

Like most early MGM DVDs, the standard edition of Return is double-sided, containing the pan & scan 1.33:1 aspect ratio butcher cut of the film on one side and the theatrical 1.85:1 version on the other. Language options include a hilarious Spanish dialogue dub, as well as English, French and Spanish subtitles. RotLD isn't a beautiful film by any means, but this disc's print looks just fine, and its sound mix is easy on the ears.

Furthermore, its special features are quite entertaining. Tobe Hooper was first tasked to direct Return, and if you've heard the excellent commentary track that he recorded with Daniel Pearl and Gunnar Hansen for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, rest assured that the commentary track voiced by O'Bannon and Stout on this disc is equally detailed, informative and amusing. These two have plenty of stories to tell regarding the production of this movie and many others! One art gallery includes Stout's most recognizable storyboards and quite a lot of his production artwork, all of which is drawn in a comic book style and quite good besides. The Designing the Dead featurette consists of interviews with O'Bannon and Stout in which they explain circumstances involving the film's production in even more detail. This isn't really a necessary addition, but it's nice to see two slightly underrated talents afforded some screen time. Theatrical trailers for both general and restricted audiences are included, as are well over a dozen TV spots, most of which differ only slightly from one another.