The first season of Angel was very good.  The second and third seasons were outstanding, and as good as anything done on Buffy.  The fourth season had some lousy elements (mostly having to do with Connor and Cordelia), and some of the best of the Buffy/Angel world (Wesley's character developments, the return of Faith, etc.).  Season 5 should never have happened.  Here are the major problems in no particular order:

1)  Wesley was the best thing in Season 4.  No other character on either Buffy or Angel rode such a fine line between hero and villain (which was most interesting when Faith returned).  When everyone's memories were wiped, that basically un-did a lot of Wes' character development.  Until Ilyria showed up, Wes' dark side made very few appearances in Season 5.  Mostly, he was a slightly gruff version of Giles as opposed to the unique and interesting character he had been.

2)  Spike was under-utilized.  Originally, Spike was basically Sid Vicious (whom Joss had in mind when the character was created)-- a pseudo-tough guy in a tragic relationship (first with Drusilla, then with Buffy).  He was someone who could do both horrible and wonderful things for love.  Take away the love part and he was just a wise-cracking sidekick with no depth (and to be perfectly honest, they couldn't put him in a third tragic relationship).  Yes, he was funny, but that was about it.  And, they never even really resolved the Shanshu prophesy.

3)  At the end of the season, they introduced a group of uber-villains and a short story arc.  In the short space of time they did it, it didn't work.  That should have been a season-long story arc.

4)  Connor's reappearance was lousy.  The entire third season happened because of a prophesy that Connor would kill Sahjan (sp?).  After the spell at the end of the fourth season, it was unclear how that could happen.  In a single episode, Connor popped up, fought and killed Sahjan with no real motivation, and it was over.  Talk about anti-climactic.

5)  They finally gave Gunn a brief story line which was somewhat interesting (a Faustian bargain that cost Fred her life and soul), but it only played out in a few episodes.

6)  They ruined Lindsey!  In the first and second seasons, Lindsey was a complex and interesting villain whose road to redemption was a brilliant story arc.  When he came back, for no apparent reason, he still thought of Angel as his enemy even though they parted in Season 2 as uneasy allies (despite Angel's practical joke).  There was no motivation for him to go after Angel, no motivation for him to then join Angel at the end, and worst of all, no reason for the writers to turn him into a [...] warrior.  One of the things that made him so interesting was that he could get away with defying Wolfram and Hart on brains, not brawn.  In Season 5, he was all brawn, no brains, and hence, no point.

7)  Angel's werewolf girlfriend.  Where was she most of the season?  She was introduced, occasionally mentioned, and popped up maybe once during the rest of the season.

There were a few strong points in season 5.  The relationship between Wes and Ilyria was great.  The muppet episode was both hilarious and disturbing.  Wes killing what he thought was his father was great.  However, none of these fleeting moments of brilliance made up for a lack of anything interesting throughout most of the final season.