Unfortunately, Magnolia was a pretentious, self-indulgent, ridiculous piece of crud. Short Cuts, on the other hand, is quite a good film. 
Because comparisons of these two films have been invited in past reviews, well, let's compare. 
In Magnolia, P.T. Anderson tries very, very hard to make his characters unique and interesting. Too hard. You can literally FEEL him pleading with you to acknowledge his witty perception as a director. The performances are fairly good, but, just like the direction, there is something self-important about the cast of characters in and of itself. Like every character is just crying for an Oscar first and foremost.
In Short Cuts, the pretention factor is kept reasonably low. The characters feel a bit more ... real. A bit more sincere. They are more interesting, and the performances are less self-conscious. Magnolia tries for controversy and the illusion of depth in the character department, tediously drawing out one or two single, fairly obvious issues for each given person (and not resolving or doing much of anything with them, either.) Short Cuts is more sure of itself, wastes less time *trying* to seem "important," and consequently allows its characters to live and breathe, and occasionally even laugh. In Short Cuts, you will not witness any characters blatantly preaching to the audience (the child on the gameshow in Magnolia -- blech), nor will you witness them trying to (weakly) "blur" the line between film and reality, (the male nurse on the phone, talking about 'this is the scene where...' -- blech.) 
There's more. Short Cuts contents itself with portraying what it has to portray, and telling the stories that it has to tell. It does not, like Magnolia, feel the need to "explain" itself through the use of some lame, oblique, arbitrary voice-over narration. It stands on its own feet. Additionally, although I'd be lying if I said I was nuts about the jazz number in Short Cuts, it is infinitely more tolerable than the disgusting, ostentatiously employed Aimee Mann folk song that pollutes Magnolia. 
Is that enough? Want more? Well, how about this: Gimmicks. Magnolia is full of them, and they rake on the nerves. The folk song. The frogs. P.S. Hoffman's aforementioned conversation on the phone. Blech. The kinds of a thing a director does self-consciously in a pathetic attempt to make his or her film seem more provocative, "bold," and "deep, man." In the case of the frogs I felt like Magnolia was trying to be, you know ... "fun" and "wondrous." I almost gagged. Just because it's unique doesn't mean it isn't still really, really stupid. 
The only similar gimmick Short Cuts employs is the earthquake scene at the end. And incidentally, that's my least favorite part of the entire movie, I think. The ending itself is interesting, but ... such goofy attempts to "tie it all together" are never welcome. Yes, we're all in the same boat. But that's a cliche piece of common sense which shouldn't be used to end an otherwise multilayered, entertaining, and interesting film.