I thought this movie could have been better.  I understand that Hollywood is going to take a few licenses with certain movies in order to make them appeal to all genders and age groups, but I don't think a story as old as the Iliad needs any tampering.  First, let me outline the good points of the movie.  The actors protraying Cassandra and Agamemmon put in incredible performances, I believe, although Agamemmon was made far more bloodthirsty and ruthless then he should have been.  I think it was especially cheesy to have a little child protray his doomed daughter, Iphgenia, instead of an older girl, like in the Iliad.  His daughter was brought to the altar on the premise of marrying Achilles, only to be sacrificed.  In this movie, the incredible young age of the girl only serves one purpose and that is to create a loathing for Agamemmon in the viewer.  I for one do not like being manipulated in my emotions in this way.  I thought the characters of Helen and Paris were also incredibly stupid.  Both actors tried entirely too hard and what it came off as was a second rate Romeo and Juliet story.  I found the actress who played Helen (fantastic body aside) to be quite unattractive myself, certainly not suitable to portray a woman thought to be the most beautiful in the world.  Paris was the worst character in the movie.  An arrogant, self-centered coward in the Iliad, he is instead made out to be this great and honorable man in the movie.  It was he (along with Aphrodite's assistance) that cheated in the battle against Meneleus.  Not to mention I found the scene where he defeated Hector in the games to be completely monoric, as Hector was supposed to be the greatest warrior of his age.  It certainly diminished his later battle against Achilles.  Oh, big deal.  Achilles killed Hector.  Hell, Paris beat him earlier in the movie.  Achilles was another character that was done horribly.  Achilles fought for the glory of battle, but he wasn't evil and shifty.  He dragged Hector's corpse as revenge for Hector killing his friend, Patroclus, not because he was ruthless and cruel.  Also, Achilles death at the hands of Paris was another travesty.  Paris murdered Achilles from afar, like a coward, in the story, unlike the semi-heroic fashion he dispatched Achilles in the movie.  Moving back to Helen again, the only reason she ever loved Paris was because Aphrodite forced her to.  Meneleus was a good husband and a good king.  He did not abuse Helen in any way and SHE chose HIM as her husband, after her father made all of the kings swear an oath that none would seek revenge against the man who won her hand.  All in all, this movie would have been a truly great film, if the Iliad had never existed at all, but because of the great differences between the film and the story (the changes make the film almost completely different then the story) this movie falls well below expectations.  If you are looking for a truly great epic film to watch, I suggest Merlin, Braveheart, or Gladiator.  Do NOT watch this film if you have read, and enjoy, the Iliad, because you will not be pleased.