I have to make it known right now I never saw the original version of this film. Hell I never heard of it before I saw the trailer for this version.

I was doing the usual wandering around Hulu just getting some insight on the up and coming movies. The trailer implied the rape of course but made it very very clear she didn't just take it and shrink away and spend the rest of the movie crying.

I didn't know how I should feel once the movie came out. I'm not a fan of rape scenes in movies. To this day I can't watch Pulp Fiction without skipping the gun shop scene just because THAT was too much for me. I never finished The Hills Have Eyes, didn't care to even see the seconds one, nor did I watch Last House on the Left at the beginning. So I clearly have no taste for rape movies.

But why did I watch it? I guess it was curiosity. I will be honest I didn't see the full rape scenes. I skipped ahead after they got in her cabin, saw a bit of the scene with Matthew raping her, then some of the sheriff's part in the woods. I felt sick, I mean I suppose if a movie or any form of entertainment makes you feel real emotions they have to be doing something right... right?

On any hand I couldn't see the entire rape because for me I'd be stuck with it for days, reliving it over and over and hating myself. Stuff like that to the core makes the viewer feel like a helpless bystander. You feel like you want to intervene and help her but you can't you're forced to watch this and for the most part movies make the rape seem like some sort of leaves falling from a tree being cut down aka slow motion, soft opera type music playing while feeling like it's the end of the world concept.

Her revenge of course I watched that from the start. I wasn't aware of the time lapse from the rape to the revenge but it made sense for her to take that time to get healed, it'd been less believable that she just appeared a few days later and tortured them. I found myself cheering for all of them except the mentally handicapped one... he did invoke a lot of sympathy but at the same time he still did it and she had to do what she had to do.

She was creative in lots of ways for how she went about getting them all back, BUT she didn't seem like the type to be as technical as she was...  I kept thinking, 'How did she know how to do that?' Or my other questions, 'Where'd she get the clothes? How did she go from city girl to survivalist?' But at the same time it shows that part of humanity we all have... the ability to survive. The only thing I'd liked to see more so just out of my own mind...

and be warned people SPOILER ALERT!!!!! (some what)

When the last kill happened after that I'd like to have seen her sitting in an office with someone reading a manuscript and praising her for her work and the believability behind it, then to see her give that smile... it would have been more of a scary feel to it that she made it back to the city and pretty much confessed to these killings in a book that was going to be widely praised.

I think over all with films like this I have to ask the question, "How would I react if that was me?" I honestly don't know I can't say I'd jump up and kill, I can't say I'd survive and I can't say I'd have been in that situation in the first place. I kept thinking I know it's idealistic to go to the woods and write and hope to crank out a best seller but at the same time... it's not smart to go to a place you don't know, alone and unarmed. I kept thinking if she had a dog and what would have happened to it. Anything I can't stand more than a rape scene is someone being cruel to animals.

With the exception of what happens to the families of these men, as well as Jennifer herself... the movies comes not quite full circle but as close as it can. The end result is, Karma can and does come back around to bite you in the ass.