Thirty years after J. Lee Thompson brought John D. MacDonald's dark revenge thriller to the screen, Martin Scorsese's Cape Fear pays homage to original and ads a few new odds and ends. The story stays relatively intact; Sam Bowden (Nick Nolte) and his family are being stalked by a psychotic rapist named Max Cady who served a 14 year prison term. Bowden was Cady's lawyer but he surpressed the evidence of the victim having a loose sexual history. Cady is out and now seeking revenge.

I would say, overall, this is a decent film that has it's own new twists. The Bowden Family in this film is a sharp contrast to the one in the 1962 original; Sam and Leigh Bowden fight almost constantly and their daughter Danny is miserable as a result. Sam also has a close lady friend and maybe a little arrogant for his own good. Another great idea was Cady taking the opprotunity of the poor family situation to stalk the Bowden family one by one. There is a very tense scene with Danny Bowden and Cady and the film now free of the prudish censors of the 1960's, it's highly sexualized. Scorsese directs with a technical expertise that pays to homage to the old Universal thrillers of yesteryear. Unfortunately, this is not as good as it sounds.

First, the problem with making The Bowden Family so troubled is that it distracts from the plot. We have scenes that akwardly go back and forth between The Bowden's arguing and worrying about the looming threat of Max Cady. This bickering between the couple seemed more like a way to kill time. The film also seemed so desperate to promote as much sacrilege as possible from Cady. That also lead to another problem; Cady just talked too much in the film. He constantly pops out of nowhere to a make long, pretentious speeches filled with bible verses and just leaves. Again, this seemed like a lot of filler and did not advance the story. The final act is definetly when everything fell apart because it's so over the top and stupid, you'd think it was from a James Cameron film instead of a Scorsese work. We two climaxes; One at the Bowden house and then again on the Cape Fear river. The showdown at the Cape Fear river was just awful; We have Cady as superhuman mutant surviving his head being set on fire and multiple bashes to the head with a rock and all this occuring with a huge thunderstorm destroying the Bowden's house boat. What started as a good film just got worse over time.

As I said before, overall, it's a decent film but you'd be better off sticking with the original.