...unfortunately, the apparent low budget, so-so delivery by the cast (with the exception of Pollyanna McIntosh), frequent implausibilities, and loose ends, for me, THE WOMAN fell short.
*** WARNING: SPOILERS!***
The locations are cheesy. Cinematography is for spit. Neither do a thing for creating a mood, or atmosphere. Quite the contrary, the way this movie was filmed detracts from a movie that needs every apsect to lend to it's authenticity. I did NOT find Chris Cleek the least bit intimidating, chilling, or threatening. He seems awkward and miscast. He looks, and speaks as if he is on the verge of cracking up. I agree with the reviewer who compared him to Will Farrell. Its like any minute the movie would be interupted by G.E. Smith's freaking sax, and Cleek was going to turn to the camera and say, "Live from New York, its Saturday night!!!".
Okay, the incongruities, the "woods" where the father is hunting, and comes upon this feral woman looks like its 100 yards from the local mall. This feral woman who has survived in the "wild", where did she come across the clothing? A mini skirt if memory serves? Her hair is slightly unkempt, not matted down and covered in filth, as one might expect. In fact it looks like she gets frequent trims, the ends are cut straight across, nice and even. No excess body hair. Apparently, razors and depilatories are readily available. The teacher that just drops by her student's house; uninvited, unannounced, to tell the parents of what she feels is an emotionally troubled girl, that she she believes the girl is pregnant. Perhaps this woman looking for a career change? Why else would she behave so ludicrously? Surely she would be fired, and possibly have legal action taken against her. Guess, in the frenzy to express her concern, she overlooked that.  And I guess the notion that perhaps the reason for the change in the girl's demeanor is the result of dysfunction at home? Hey, anyone could have overlooked that, right? And what was with the other feral, pseudo dog girl?! I'm sorry, that was just so hokey, and corny. And finally, the way youngest daughter just scurries off with this strange woman. Come on.
Clever premise, unrealized.