Gamer is an odd movie and it has some pacing issues. I think its main problem is that it tries to address too many ideas all at once (the dumbing-down of society, Internet addiction, mind control, etc.) and isn't nearly deep enough to fully explore all of them.

Here are some of the ideas Gamer borrows from other movies:

> Near future world where a new, ultra-violent, globally televised bloodsport is perfectly accepted by the populous (Running Man, Death Race)
> Wrongfully convicted/framed hero fighting for his freedom so that he can seek revenge and/or get his family back (Running Man, Death Race, Gladiator)
> People/group on the outside working to bring down the people that control the ultra-violent bloodsport (Running Man)
> Controlling a different body so that you can live out your fantasies without leaving your computer (a lot like Surrogates but not exactly)
> The person controlling the hot girl avatar is actually a huge, fat slob of a man who is literally slobbering on himself and sweating heavily at all times (Surrogates)
> In-your-face shaky camera movements and quick-cuts to random naked body parts and people acting abnormally (Crank)

I won't get into the plot of the movie because you can read the official synopsis for that, so I will stick with giving what I hope is a useful opinion:

Oddness and pacing problems aside, this isn't a terrible movie. Ludacris and the other hackers who are fighting to shut down Slayer (the ultra-violent game on which this movie is based) are laughably stereotypical 'hacker' characters who look way too young and hip to do any real coding, let alone understand the complexities of a system used to control cellular activity. I also think Slayer would run out of fresh bodies pretty quickly, considering that I alone have about 17,000 kills and 14,000 deaths in COD: Modern Warfare 2 multi-player. Little gaps in logic like this detract from the movie but don't kill it.

Also, Gerard Butler can help carry a movie most of the time (kind of in the same way Bruce Willis can help elevate a movie). If you're a fan of him, there's certainly no reason you shouldn't at least rent this movie. If you're a guy like me, you might be able to give this movie a look just to see Amber Valletta run around in skimpy blue shorts and an orange wig for the latter 1/3 of the movie. Another small highlight of this movie is that a member of the cast of Heroes pops up for a very brief part, which I found amusing.

Final Verdict: Average Rental