This was the "Halloween" flick that fans of the franchise waited 8 years for. Sadly it did not live up to expectations.
After the very stupid ending of "H5", how could the producers bring back Michael? Easy, by ignoring the other films and adding a hokey plot about Michael being in some stupid cult. Realy believable huh? The film starts with Jamie (this time not played by Danielle Harris)having Michael's baby, don't ask I'm confused as well. She escapes her captors with the baby and runs away.
She is killed eventually, and the baby is found by Tommy Doyle (Played By Paul Rudd-"Clueless"). Michael goes back to "Haddonfield" poor town, to wreak some more havoc. He now goes after the people living in the old Strode house. I know guys my head hurts too. 
Michael starts knocking people off "Jason" style. Hacking without any suspense. He kills a woman who eeriely resembles the main character of the mom from the defunct TV show "Mama's Family" with an axe. Since when our old pal Mikey went the savage route? He electrocutes another until his head explodes, and he even decimates a room full of doctors with a knife so big it could have been the "Green Destiny" sword from "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." 
This is all a bit much for me. Not because it's gory, but because it is so out of character for Michael Myers. Michael was very calm and watched you for a while before he actually attacked. Here he just slices and dices away. Also he is so fat in this movie, what was he eating while he was away? Twinkies?
The movie gets points for the way the mask looks, it looks pretty scary. But the film is too resemblant of the silly splatter flicks that pretty much ruined the horror genre. Donald Pleasance in his last film role, trys his best to bring some credibility to the film. Sadly it did not help. The ending is such a bore, we all know you cant beat Michael with a metal pipe and expect him to stay down. 
This flick is pretty bad, but not as bad as "Halloween 3: Season Of The Witch." By now the premise is just tired. The filmmakers have ignored the previous storyline. I hear there is some special "Producers Cut" of the film but I doubt that it would have added much to this convoluted story any way.