Robert Groden's books were among the first available ones that came out in the wake of the film JFK here in Australia, and were the first books I had read completely devoted to the JFK assassination. Prior to that I had read some articles out of mystery books, and in the late 80s I had a British magazine called "Murder Casebook" which profiled the assassination in one edition. Until the internet came along, it was very difficult to find JFK related material that was out of print over here.

So I consider this DVD a companion piece to his books "The Killing Of A President", which is mainly a photos source that would appeal even to sole assassin theorists because it is probably the best consolidated source for photos related to the assassination. I also bought "The Search For Lee Harvey Oswald" at around this time, but would not really relate it to this production.

However, I hadn't seen this program until recently, as it was never shown on TV in Oz (according to my knowledge), as I think I recorded every related show that I saw broadcast here for the last twenty years either on VHS or DVD.

This program obviously dates from the post-JFK movie period, as I think the movie did tend to spur the production of several documentaries on the subject. The transfer is clearly from a master VHS copy, and no attempt appears to have been made to clean up the footage, so you will see all the usual streaks and "clarity" that you will see in a VHS copy. Don't wait out for blu-ray, I think DVD is as good as it's going to get. If you want a hi-def copy of the Zapruder film, get the movie "JFK" on blu-ray (even if you don't believe in conspiracy, get it for the hi-def copy of the Z-Film).

So the start of this program is a series of amateur films of the arrival in Love Field of the JFK presidential party, and follows the motorcade into Dealey Plaza. Then, the Zapruder film is shown, with rifle shots spliced into when Groden believes the shots occurred. I thought this approach was quite clever, regardless if you believe the sequence as he sets down or not, as the sequence is timed fairly well to events occuring within the limousine. After that, the show uses primarily the Zapruder film, but also other films (most notably the Nix film), to rebuild the assassination sequence from Groden's point of view.

Naturally, the focus is on the destruction of the single bullet theory, and dispelling the notion of a headshot originating from the rear of the President (TSBD). Groden shows the various generations of the Zapruder film, including his stabilization methods which allow you to follow Kennedy's & Connally's movements seperately & in slow-mo so you can see their reactions within the car separately. This allows you to see details like the rear wound to Connally, a detail that can be picked up on the Z-film with surprising clarity. This method also clearly shows that blood doesn't start to develop on Connally's sleeve until later in the sequence.

The second half of the film goes into more detail in regards to the SBT, followed by interviews with some of the witnesses, primarily with doctors who were at Parkland Hospital frantically working on the expired President. Delaney is interesting, as he is under attack for back-tracking on his previous testimony after seeing the autopsy photos, which he endorses, while the other doctors, primarily McClelland & Peters, reject them as not being true representations of what they saw.

Personally, I think even the most ardent defender of the Warren Commission owes Bob Groden for the fact that the Zapruder film & the autopsy photos were finally made public, allowing the public to view them and make up their own mind. I would neither call Groden right or wrong on his views, but I do compliment him on stabilization & scoping which allow you to view areas of the Z-film in more detail.

If there is one thing that I probably share an opinion on with Groden, it is "Black Dog Man" and his pal, who appear most predominantly in the Willis serious of photos, and also get some airplay on this program. I've argued this point with sole assassin people in blogs, and most have a "who cares" mentality, but in Dealey Plaza we know the details of most witnesses, yet the few on the list we don't know of includes these two characters, who were situated right on the knoll, along the palisade - yards from the location where many witnesses claim to have heard a shot or shots.

My view in regards to these characters goes something like this: ok, so on the day these two characters that appear on the knoll are photographed fleeing the scene. Now, there may be an honest reason for them doing that, but if they were merely bystanders, why have they never come forward to identify who they are, what they were doing, and what they heard & saw ? ........to me, they are either brilliant witnesses or part of a plot, and by running away and never presenting themselves again, I tend to err towards the latter view (ironically, by coming forward, however, they may have even vindicated the official version, confirming that no shots were fired from the knoll). I mean, that Witt fellow came out and tried to identify himself as "Umbrella Man", which you could argue if he really was, but no-one has come forward that I know of claiming to be these guys on the knoll, despite the massive interest in the subject ever since the day it happened. My long-standing view of this aspect of the assassination is that if you were completely innocent, surely you would come forward and get your experiences of what you saw & heard on the record, and furthermore, eliminate yourself as a suspect. Surely every detective from Abberline to Columbo would understand the importance of eliminating them from suspicion !

Surprisingly, many conspiracy theorists ignore true questions of the assassination like that of "black dog man" and his pal, and latch onto stuff that has often been debunked. The movie JFK was brilliant for that - while much of the film was interesting, why Oliver Stone went with the guy having the epileptic fit as being part of a grand plot escapes me, as I seem to recall that the FBI identified him as early as 1964, so it appears to be in the debunked theory pile to me. Stone didn't even introduce the Vallee plot in Chicago, or Milteer in Miami, yet the long debunked epileptic story got a run, and so did the old canard about having the motorcade run down Main St, not Houston-Elm Streets, which could only have been done by removing the concrete sleepers that separate the convergence of Main & Elm Streets west of the overpass (do-able for the President, I guess) ???

Anyway, back onto this product, it's still ok as a DVD, and given the price, worth getting to study. The best DVD I've seen on the subject is "Into Evidence", which is simply hours of clips from presentations filmed at the 40th anniversary JFK Symposium (Groden was among those present), but it is quite dry, and is probably for the more advanced reader on the subject, as well as being over a hundred dollars per copy. Groden did another program that appears to have been part of this series that was a study of the various films taken in the plaza, which is quite good, but to my knowledge was never released on DVD, but it is quite interesting if you can get it. If you buy this DVD, enjoy the early 90s fashions amongst some of the witnesses & presenters, clothing & styles which I believe actually had their origins in the late 80s !

Also listen out for the music at the end credits, "when the shots rang out in Dealey" or something like that......I haven't heard that many assassination ballads, admittedly, but this one would be amongst the lamest !