What can I say? P.U. 
Poor Wolfgang - he borrows material shamelessly from his own "Das Boot", from the opening "party" (funny how these Glouchester types are even cruder than the U-Boat crews!) to the stocking-up of stores on-board to the shot of the departing ship (although at that point, *I* was whistling "a threeee hour tour"....)
But where "Das Boot" was authentic right down to the claustrophobic set, "Storm" gets downright silly. I was astonished at the scene (obviously made-up to create empathy for our silly sailors) where one man gets dragged overboard and two other hard-drinkin', hard-SMOKING guys dive right in after him and swim about 100 yards UNDERWATER in a HURRICANE, FIND HIM, grab the poor sap, and then CATCH UP to the boat. Uh-huh, yeah, OK. THAT'S what kind of movie ya got here, folks. (I also want to know the secret of how they managed to light those cigarettes in a hurricane, while we're at it.) Let's not even get into the total absence of life vests, use of transponders, or why the poor TV weather-guy is made to look like a villain. ALL of the characters were of the flimsiest cardboard (except George Clooney, poor guy, who simply can NOT be ANYbody other than George Clooney: dress him up in surgical scrubs, a sailor suit, desert camo fatigues - same George.)
The James Horner soundtrack suffers from extreme emotional bloat - but the RANGE of emotions is from drippy to gooey to simply sacharine. Ugh. And was it my imagination, or did those big bad waves GROWL just like the tornadoes in this flick's foster-father "Twister"?
No, I haven't read the book. I've read "South" (long before "Into Thin Air" re-popularized the disaster genre) and several books on Great Lakes shipping disasters. I've heard that the book is a fine look into the chain of decisions that seemed reasonable at the time but lead inevitably to the watery fate depicted. This film, though, is a waterlogged piece of Hollywood-ized history, insulting to all but the most feeble of intelligences and yet another example of CGI technology overcoming plot and character development. Better "adversity at sea" movies: along with "Das Boot", there's "The Caine Mutiny", "The Cruel Sea", or even "Moby Dick" (the original, not the one with Capt. Picard.) 
Leave this hulk for the video scavengers.