I didn't get to see this in the theater. I can understand why the film had a short run at the theater. It is the directorial debut of Dean Wright (who did 2nd unit work on the "Lord of the Rings" and "Narnia" films.) At nearly 2 ½ hours, the historical epic loses its narrative way on occasion and drags at times. Some of the performances are pretty good (by Andy Garcia and Eva Longoria), and some (particularly by children and an ancient looking Peter O'Toole) not so much. It is at turns maudlin and at others brutally violent.

But I was still glad to see it because it tells a fascinating historical story that I was unaware of before the film's meager promotional campaign began. In 1926, the Marxist President of Mexico Plutarco El&iacute;as Calles decided to enforce the anti-clerical ordinances in Mexico's new constitution (such as prohibiting priests wearing clerical garb in public and prohibiting  preaching negatively about the government.) When the Catholic Church disobeyed these restrictions, the government reacted by banning Mass and arresting and killing priests.

This brought about a guerrilla war against the government that lasted for three years. Eventually, the Church in Rome and the United States government intervened, and a truce was reached. But though rights were returned to the church, most of the leaders of the Cristiada movement were arrested and executed.

One of the reasons I think this film, in spite of its weaknesses, is still worth seeking out is because the issue of religious liberty is still a pressing concern. In many nations, particularly Muslim and Communist regimes, Christians are being arrested and killed for their beliefs and practices. In the film, the United States government finally intervenes on behalf of the Catholic Church in Mexico because of pressure from Catholics in the United States. (The most outspoken group for the issue was the Knights of Columbus. The KKK, on the other hand, supported the persecution by Mexico's socialist government.)

Even in the United States, Evangelical and Catholic Churches are fighting for their rights as the current administration is imposing abortion and birth control mandates. This film reminds us of the price of our most important freedoms.