This is yet another "thinkers" Saw movie, although not as much as Saw IV. "Saw V" is basically the story of detective Mark Hoffman's journey into becoming Jigsaw's accomplice. So there are a lot of flashbacks and back story involved in this interesting chapter of the Saw series. And please do not just plunge in and watch "Saw V" without watching the others first. It will make no sense if you do.

When the film opens, we're introduced to a murderer named Seth, who is laying on his back and chained down to a table. Above Seth is a pendulum, which will drop down and slowly cut him in half unless he crushes his hands in a device. But this is no ordinary Jigsaw trap and someone is watching this "game" unfold. Even though we only see Seth for the opening of the film, you'll find just what a huge impact he makes on the story of "Saw V." Personally, the pendulum trap is one of my very favorite Saw traps of them all.

Like Saw IV, Saw V is both a prequel and a sequel, picking up right where Saw IV left off and also flashing back for some back story, beginning with the first Saw, all the way up to the current. First of all, from Saw IV, we found out that Mark Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) has been a accomplice to John Kramer/Jigsaw (Tobin Bell) all along. We also saw where agent Peter Strahm (Scott Patterson) found the room where Jigsaw lay dead on the bed with his deceased accomplice Amanda Young below him on the floor. We see Jeff (the grieving father from Saw III) demand to know where his daughter is and Strahm killing him in self defense. And Hoffman shuts and seals the door behind Strahm. So here we have basically Saw III, Saw IV and Saw V linked together here.

After surviving the "cube trap" (where his head was in a glass cube that fills up with water), agent Strahm is transported to the hospital just as Hoffman emerges from the warehouse carrying Jeff's "missing" daughter. Hoffman and Strahm have a brief confrontation at the hospital near agent Perez's bloodied hospital bed, and the cat and mouse game begins from there. Strahm suspects Hoffman is linked to Jigsaw, and so begins his quest to find out the truth to Hoffman's past by sifting through and studying old records and files and visiting the areas where some of the Jigsaw "games" took place. Through this, we are taken back to the days when Hoffman met John/Jigsaw and how a huge tragedy in Hoffman's life led him to help out with the kind of horrific "rehabilitation" that John Kramer thrived on. One of the best scenes in the movie is of John confronting Hoffman for the first time, using fear tactics and offering him the chance of a lifetime. It is neat to see all the puzzle pieces fitting together and all the gaps filled as we are taken clear back to Saw I, II, and on up to witness Hoffman's hand in the havoc that Jigsaw conducted. While Strahm is investigating, Hoffman stays a step ahead of the game and all the while tries to make it look like Strahm is the one for new-to-the-case detective Dan Erickson (Mark Rolston) to point the finger at.

Presently, there are many other things going on as well. Hoffman gets a card the reads "I know who you are;" something for the mind to feast on. And Jill Tuck (Betsy Russell), John Kramer's ex-wife, has received a video and a box that he had left for her in the event of his death. But there's more! A new game is being played out known as the "Fatal Five." Five people; Brit, Luba, Charles, Mallick and Ashley are responsible for the tragic deaths of 8 people due to their self-centered, unethical actions. Now together they must survive the traps in four rooms. But will they think to use the vital tool of "teamwork" to survive? Each room as a timer and nail bombs which will go off when time expires. The first room that they all awaken in contains the "Necktie Trap" where they are all in their own locker-sized spaces wearing collars linked together by a string. There are razors mounted in back of them. Five glass boxes with keys inside stand before them and each time a person goes for their key, the string pulls back so tight on the other participants that the razors in back of them could decapitate them. In the next room, we have the "chamber trap." There are nail bombs in the corners of the room that will go off when time expires, and there are four chambers that people can climb into for safety. The keys to the chambers are in the glass jars hanging from the ceiling. Who will be the odd person out? The next room has the "bathtub trap." Here we have a bathtub full of water. In order to unlock the five locks on the door, the five electrical cords in the room must somehow connect to the bathwater and close the circuits. Finally there's the "blade trap." We have a long box-like contraption with five sections with five holes in each section big enough for a hand to fit through. In each section is a saw blade and the challenge is to fill a beaker with 10 pints of blood before time expires or else nail bombs will go off and the doors will be sealed.

By the end of the film, the cat and mouse chase between Hoffman and Strahm is about to reach a crescendo complete with an epic ending involving a glass coffin and walls that close in and crush. Yes, it is another great ending for Saw fans. I know when I first watched Saw V, I never saw it coming. More trademark twists. While "Saw V" answers a lot of questions, it also leaves you with new questions. It took me a few watches for this particular Saw movie to grow on me a bit, but it's still probably my least favorite of the films. The "Fatal Five" game seemed like it was just kind of thrown in there with no real point exactly; perhaps just to show that even though Jigsaw is dead, there are still games being played out. Save Tobin Bell and Costas Mandylor, the acting was not the greatest in the world, but still passable I guess. I gave this movie 4 stars instead of three, just because it does a good job of holding true to the storyline started by the previous movies and everything seemed to come together in the end for a dramatic twist. Overall a decent Saw movie that will leave you thinking again.