Everyone has covered their views of Jim Morrison in more detail and length then his actual time in the limelight at this point. The Doors film is one of legendary proportions, often portraying the excessive more so then the intellectual elements that occurred. With so much coverage on Jim, as so with almost every Doors related book and article we'd think the DOORS MOVIE would maybe shed some light off the lizard king?

No, this movie is strongly centric on Morrison. As a movie though it holds up, it's interesting and lengthy. As a portrayal it has hits and rapid fire misses. Trippy effects, surreal warmly euphoric moments, bizarre lighting it's all here.

Unlike other movies there is no main underlying problem anyone sets out to fix, after all it's meant to be somewhat real right? Stone has fudged the truth to make possibly quick a buck or add the missing elements needed for a hit (like it wouldn't have been already). Jim Morrison was a funny, passionate, at times other worldly guy. While that is shown in brief amounts through speeches, we see his other capable side amplified. The side capable of inciting crowds, dangling off buildings to incite more people, and drinking heavily to incite the people around him. He was also a very deep thinker with a supposed IQ of 149, we find ourselves missing wondering where the other 49 went in this film. He's portrayed a sociopath with a drinking problem more so then the poet we've come to know him as.

Aside from my little rant the movie is rather enjoyable. Good music is good music and the Doors had a wonderful catalog of music. A good movie is a good movie, it offers a colorful view on an era so hazily colored. When combined it works nicely, but the falsities are my underlying disapproval of anything greater then average toward this film. As a movie it holds its own, as a tribute to an amazing band it's a bit upsetting.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Quick run down:
Pros: Great renditions of a classic rock group, provides some uniquely odd scenes, insightful for quite a few Doors related things, impressive acting.

Cons: Detaches from reality, endorses a destructive lifestyle without the conscious normal views of these people, some scenes grow boring due to length.