Okay, I am a HUGE fan of Ridley Scott AND of his second feature length film, "Alien" which is where the genesis of this movie came from.  What made that movie such a phenomenal flick is the stunning cinematography, story telling, pacing and acting -AND the visuals.  The grittiness of the characters, the tension between them before the movie really even gets going, watching them do their jobs -almost from a documentary style format.  That movie stunned audiences and deservedly so for 1979.

This movie is a sort of "prequel" to "Alien" -though not completely.  The movie is obviously well filmed, has stunning visuals and effects, like its predecessor.  Now, to me -the acting was... okay.  You couldn't cut the tension with a knife -like in "Alien". The movie does, sort of, answer the question of where the aliens came from as well other little questions, like the "space jockey" and so forth.

The time line for this movie is supposed to be before that of "Alien", though that movie was gritty (it WAS the 70's) and this film is very clean -too clean, almost like a "Star Trek" film.  There is no grittiness or realism to the characters -just nothing that makes you think these people could be you, me or anyone else.  To me this is a big issue as in the "Alien" film you could actually relate and connect to a degree with the characters.

I admit that I did NOT see it in theaters, and ordered it as soon as it came out on blu ray (got a used copy, even!) so my excitement was high, and I admit that my expectations were thru the roof as well.  I also admit to being disappointed in this film... Scott is an excellent director (Alien, Gladiator, The Duellists, Black Hawk Down, BLADE RUNNER!) but this movie feels too commercial -there's nothing in it that makes me "dare to want to see it" like its predecessor. For "Alien" there were reports of people fainting, screaming and running out, and throwing up -if you went to see it, you were warned -this film you got none of that.

Look, the bottom line is this: while I have complaints and issues with the film, I recommend it to those enthusiasts of the original "Alien" as it is an interesting entry after the fact.  I suggest if you've never seen it, before buying it, rent it -either thru Amazon or Redbox, first -then decide if buying it would be worth it to your budget.