Five college students take an ill-fated trip to a remote island, endearingly called "Isla del Muerte". That's "Island of the Dead" for you non-Spanish speakers. They're expecting to take in a rave, but they get oh so much more than that. There be zombies on that thar island! That's about all the setup that you need, sadly it's not any more elaborate than that. And sadly, such a simple concept is convoluted by the fact that it's told as one big flashback with a bunch of flashbacks scattered throughout.

I was completely disappointed by the garbage script that was churned out. Completely abysmal. I wouldn't have been as disgruntled if I hadn't seen the writers' other work. I thought that Dave Parker's THE DEAD HATE THE LIVING was a much more inspired effort, and Mark Altman's screenplay of FREE ENTERPRISE was complete genius compared to this tripe. Some of the lines are complete head-shakers. Much like the boat captain's name, Captain "Kirk" (J&uuml;rgen Prochnow), the movie seems like it wants to be tongue-in-cheek, but Boll directs it completely straight. That's where it all unravels.

The action sequences would have been a positive for the film, but alas, Uwe Boll drops the ball again. If I see another bullet-time action sequence, it'll be too soon. The way it's callously thrown around, you'd think that Boll was the creator of the effect and this is the first time it's ever been seen or something. The main battle between humans and zombies is ruined by the insertion of distracting video game shots (which appear throughout the whole film) and the far too generous dose of slow-motion bullet-time. Every single character is granted a useless 360 degree slow-mo shot of them shooting off their weapon. It makes the transition from "ridiculous" to "completely ridiculous" when Rudy (Jonathan Cherry) takes a moment, in the middle of the carnage, to reflect on the events so far. The flashback is simply a super-fast collage of clips from the movie up to that point. I don't know about you, but the last thing that I'd do in the middle of a battle for my life would be to take time out to think about things. Utterly pointless and insulting. It's like we needed a refresher because we hadn't remembered what we've seen in the last 30 minutes.

This film should have never made it into the theaters, plain and simple. There's nothing redeemable, nothing original, nothing even fun. I can imagine Uwe Boll thinks he's very clever and his use of all the flashbacks was creative...it wasn't. He probably thinks his action scenes were mind-blowing with all the slow-mo and his camera tricks...they weren't. He, for some odd reason, thinks he can actually direct. He can't.