Having read and enjoyed the novels of Michael Dibdin about Aurelio Zen, the Venetian detective, I had hopes for this short-lived series starring Rufus Sewell whom I have also enjoyed in other television shows.  The BBC, however, gives us some British producer or director's fantasy in Rome instead.  To begin with ~ surprise ~ the entirety of Italy (according to this three episode series) and most specifically Rome (one of the world's most cosmopolitan metropolae) is populated only by white anglo-type middle and upper class people.  There are no emos, goths, punkers, hippies, homeless, homosexuals, elderly, street performers, nuns or priests, or any of the usual trappings one finds in Italy.  Oddly, neither are there throngs of tourists despite scenes taking place in the plazas.  No bus tours, no country yokels, no groups of men standing on the streets smoking and gesturing, no crazy-fast Roman drivers.  This is a pristine Anglo-Saxon dream of Rome that has (except for a few stylish women) no Italians in it!

Then there is Rufus Sewell attempting to portray not merely an Italian but a Venetian one, despite the utter lack of anything Italian or Venetian about him.  I mean, seriously, what Venetian says "Yep" like an American to a question.  Sewell also doesn't "talk with his hands" enough to be a convincing Italian.  Neither does anyone else.  If only it were satire, but it's not.  There are no explosive Mediterranean temperaments, no "soave" moments, no one even eats anything resembling Italian food.

So what you are left with is this tepid and predictable Anglo-Saxon fantasy of Rome that doesn't connect with reality in any way.  It's a bit of eye-candy fluff if you like that sort of thing or are British or American and like the Disneyland version of "foreign places without the foreigners messing it all up".

I rate it two stars because I enjoy Rufus Sewell otherwise, it's trash and I can see why they cancelled it after only three episodes.  How sad that Giancarlo Gianinni is too old to play Zen.