The origins of the great pyramids of Egypt, indeed the great pyramids of the world's remain one of mankind's enduring mysteries.  How did the Egyptians sans modern building equipment and engineering tools build such enduring stone monuments?  How did the Mayan's, or the Cambodians for that matter?  The 1994 movie "Stargate", staring Kurt Russell (Backdraft, Forrest Gump, Vanilla Sky) sort of offers up a semi-plausible explanation.

Story-Line

Written and directed by Roland Emmerich (Independence Day, Godzilla, 2012), "Stargate" open is mankind's distant past in 3000 BCE to be exact when I spacecraft in the shape of a pyramid visits Earth and stays a spell.  Fast forward to mid-1930's Egyptian desert wherein a stone tablet and huge round disc are found, then fast forward again to the mid-1990's wherein, said stone tablet is being transcribed and applied to the now semi-functioning disc.

But help is needed in the form of one Dr. Daniel Jackson (James Spader ~ Sex, Lies, & Videotape, 2 Days in the Valley, Secretary) who uses an unorthodox method to transcribe the last of the ancient symbols and effectively kick-start the disc, now called a stargate. As it turns out the stargate is a trans-warp portal to other galaxy's and worlds.  Enter Air Force Colonial Jonathan `Jack' O'Neil (Kurt Russell) who takes over the project, you know, just in case the scientist succeed.

And succeed they do and off they go to another world where they find the Egyptian sun god Ra (Jayne Davidson ~ The Crying Game), holding sway over a planet not unlike pre-modern earth.

My Thoughts

Even when it was originally released "Stargate" was great fun to watch.  No, it was no Star Wars, but then it did not pretend to want to be.  The story, while plausible, was not nearly deep enough to explain what was really going on in the story.  The character were not well written or fleshed out, and the special effect, while cutting edge at the time were still somewhat limited in the imagination department.

Be that as it may "Stargate" still managed to live on through no less than three different program arcs, the latest of which Stargate Universe (SG-U) in in its 2nd season on the SyFy Channel.

The Extended version of "Stargate" on Blu-ray isn't any better than the DVD, indeed in spots the video was grainy and the audio just so-so almost making me sorry I wasted my time buying the movie.  But overall the experience was enjoyable and if you enjoy all of the extra stuff you get with Blu-ray then the disc is for you.

As a science fiction flick with staying power "Stargate" has earned it place as a classic with staying power.  The movie is great fun on a rainy, or snowy weekend afternoon when there is little else to do and a buff Kurt Russell is what you want with you popcorn and hotdogs!