Scotland, PA is Billy Morriessette's incarnation of Shakespeare's MacBeth.  William Shakespeare may be rolling over in his grave.  The idea to take a classic and turn it into an updated drama is certainly not new.  Although the 1970s setting of MacBeth certainly adds an interesting aspect to the story.

Joe (James LeGros) and Pat McBeth (Maura Tierney) work hard in the fast food business.  Joe has a lot of great ideas, but never seems to get recognition from the owner, Norm Duncan (James Rebhorn).  When Norm hits on the idea to add a drive through to his restaurant, the McBeth's hatch a plan to take the old man out.  There plan goes awry, but they manage to divert attention away from themselves in the short term.

The McBeth's turn their restaurant ideas into a cash cow.  They are thriving with their drive through window and chicken nuggets.  However, Joe's friend Banko (Keving Corrigan) is starting to suspect the pair.  Between Banko and a nosy Lieutenant (McDuff, played by Christopher Walken), things begin to unravel.  The McBeth's suffer from hallucinations brought on by their guilt and don't seem to be capable of holding their lie together as events spin out of control.

The dialogue and characters in this film are a bit flat for my tastes.  The writing seems to have started from a great inspiration (placing the events in the culturally unique 1970s), but failed as a story.  It was interesting to see some of the tongue-in-cheek humor and allusions to 70s culture.  It gave the film a connection that helped me get past the otherwise weak writing.

The performances weren't bad, but the script did not help much.  Christopher Walken has an odd screen presence that I have always liked.  He brings an instant quirky charm to his roles.  He may seem typecast at times, but I like him.  Tierney was awesome while LeGros was decent.  Rebhorn played a pretty good straight-man for some cheap visual gags.  They worked okay because of his deadpan delivery.  Overall, the quality of the cast exceeded that of the script.

The single factor I most enjoyed about Scotland, PA was the setting.  The 1970s was recreated with loads of subtle imagery.  Even an old-school overhead projector was featured as a background prop in one scene.  The vehicles, clothing and sets all had a campy 70s feel that was enhanced by the carefully selected soundtrack.  The music added a fun element to the story that helped keep my mind off the forgettable script.

While rated R, this film was not that objectionable.  A streaking scene at the end of the film probably got it bumped up from an otherwise PG-13.  It should be fine for teen audiences and above.

Billy Morrissette is no William Shakespeare.  His writing left a lot to be desired.  He was smart to place his story in the 1970s, where the music, sets and costumes were able to help carry the story.  The performances were also better than the actual writing.  It is a forgettable story, but a fun, quirky, campy trip back to the 1970s.  This film is not for everyone, but I would mildly recommend it with three stars.