I stumbled across "The Sea Wolves" in the Bargain Bin at Walmart in VHS before I found it at Amazon on DVD. I had just finished viewing the complete James Bond set, and I noticed that this title starred Roger Moore, in addition to Gregory Peck, David Niven, Patrick Macnee, and Trevor Howard. (And a multitude of great character actors.) So, I picked it up, and I'm glad I did.

The story is, in brief, about a WWII commando mission pulled off by a bunch of Boer War and WWI veterans who were working in British India in "essential' non-military jobs, keeping chemical plants and factories going to provide war materiel for the Allied effort. Their jobs are important, safe, and frustrating since they feel that they are not 'doing their part' in the war. The mission they accept is critical, dangerous, and very complicated because of the politics of 'Neutrality" practiced by non-combative countries like Portugal. Three German freighters have been 'interned' in the neutral Portuguese port of Goa, and they are part of a spy network sending information to German U-Boats that then sink Allied cargo ships in the Indian Ocean. That the "ragtag band of warriors" will succeed is self evident from the beginning, but HOW they succeed is what makes this a good story. The "HOW" involves digging out German spies, bedroom murders, bribery of 'neutral' politicians, and sexual intrigue ending in murder.

Gregory Peck plays the confident, strong leader tasked with making it happen. Roger Moore plays the somewhat 'sleazy' agent who does whatever has to be done to succeed, while managing to bed 'Mata Hari' in the process. And David Niven plays the character he always seems to play, the war weary, highly competent older character who is always comes through in the end. Patrick Macnee plays an enigmatic explosives expert who is tasked with making, or breaking, the mission in the end.

What sets this film apart is that it is based on a true story; a saga that came to light as a result of the British version of the "Freedom of Information Act" that released extensive records of World War II missions in the late 60's and early 70's. It combines inspiring heroics, perfectly placed humor, and an exciting plot with believable characters and excellent casting to give us an enjoyable and engaging movie. I loved every minute, as I seem to in every movie I review! (It might be that I don't make it all the way through the 'stinkers'!)

When this movie was made (In 1980), Gregory Peck was relatively late in his career, and he was well cast as the mission commander. Roger Moore, in the middle of his James Bond run, carried the Bond 'charisma' over into this role. David Niven was getting up there in age, and it was evident that he strained to complete the film. (A tribute to his long history of professionalism) However, it is precisely the nature of the cast that made it one of my favorites.

Since the early 90's, we have been inundated with films about various Arab-Isreali conflicts, Kosovo, The Gulf Wars, and even flashbacks of Viet Nam. What differentiates "The Sea Wolves" is that this is one of the last of the 'genre' that included actors of the age who not only experienced the reality of war (Having served with distinction in WWII and Korea) but also made no bones about the pride and patriotism that motivated them to serve. The Sea Wolves doesn't showcase 'chicken' actors like George Clooney who put on a uniform and pretend to play soldier and then feel qualified to interject their opinions about war and politics to anybody unfortunate to get in the way of their tirades. The film showcases men who lived through the hell of real war, did their best, and then got on with their lives.

This is not meant to be a political statement, but the movie shows a multitude of the faces of war; some exciting, some horrifying, and some just necessary. Watch it if you can.