I'm rather surprised buy the glowing reviews.  Tommy Lee Jones and Charlize Theron, give good performances, but others in the cast do not and in general the film feels cheap and preachy.  Some secondary characters seem like locals given a few lines as a favor, not professionals.  Apparent location shots in buildings were framed distant and clinical.  Likely this was to create a mood -but its so often used in cheap direct to video films, that's the impression it leaves.

As to the peachiness, the film is "inspired" by an actual case, but has little in common with it.  In the film Tommy Lee is a straight-laced country, core, God in that order vet.  He slowly finds his son was missing, then murdered, and slowly that his son had become a drug using sadist.  Tidbits like a scene set in a gun store where they frame the huge selection of guns, and a local case where a guy in a chicken farm likes to poke the eyes out of the chickens seem to be there to imply the innate cruelty and violence of Americans.  And the arc of the story shows Tom Lee gradually seeing the Army and the war in Iraq as brutalizing and dehumanizing the troops into becoming utterly cold blood killers who can cheerfully kill and torture.  In the end he's shown turning his back on core and country with a closing scene where he disgraces a long cherished family flag.  It reminds me of Vietnam war era films portraying all vets as dehumanized baby killing psychos; both because of its preach bias, and its sloppiness with the facts to make theirpoint.

As has been mentioned the film plot shares little with the actual events, and it also is often clich&eacute; and contradictory.  Tom Lees character rapidly shows up the local police and Army investigators, finding clue after clue missed or bungled by the other investigators.  The dead sons body is so brutally destroyed that little was recovered, and of that there were signs of at least 40 stab wounds.  Which as any detective show watcher knows implies uncontrollable rage.  The murderer however expresses no real feeling at all about the killing, though he apologizes and seems a little sorry to have lost his friend.  An argument got out of hand, and then he realized he stabbed him.  It's sufficiently unlikely I expected it to be a false trail to quickly unravel.  After the murder the body was cut up, burned, and disposed - near by to virtually the only streetlight in a deserted road at the edge of a dessert.  Near the end there is a flashback scene that seems to be what was supposed to have broken Tommy Lees son, but seems unclimactic to have had such impact..

All in all the film seemed to me, to be Tommy Lee Jones and Charlize Theron in a film well bellow their normal standards.  Where they gave good performances, but not up to their best work.  I was stunned to hear it won raves from Hollywood, and a award nomination for Tommy Lee.  I sincerely can only believe it was due to its slanted plot, appealing to strong political biases.