Michael Moore's film uncovers the horrendous exploitations in our mixed economic system. However, almost none of the cases he explores is a case of free market capitalism exploiting the people. You can't show Reagan getting bossed around by a Wall Street CEO, a cold war economy that was in fact Keynsian and bolstered by the military industrial complex, two county judges providing inmates to a private jail, and country sheriffs working on behalf of banks on the one hand and then argue that your movie is about capitalism on the other. This could have been an excellent (and genuinely liberal and leftist movie) if it had explicitly explored the way government and industry work together to regulate competition out of existence while re-regulating the economy to make it easier for our corporate masters and their government puppets to fleece us, all the while using a rhetoric of capitalism to make us think their corporate socialism is really our "free market" way of life. Instead, Moore repeats the canard that this is all the result of capitalism, and offers the bizarre solution that we band together to elect fitter cats to guard the hen house.

Capitalism: A Swan Song, or Corporatism: A Love Story would have been more accurate titles for this film, which, after all, does the necessary work of uncovering the ways the government works with corporate oligarchies to limit and control capitalism.

Moore does, however, give two examples of capitalism that actually illustrate capitalism at work: two employee-owned companies of the kind that anti-government libertarians like Benjamin Tucker also created in the 19th century. He also gives one example of actual capitalism when he covers companies that take out life insurance policies on their employees for profit. Of course, all of these companies survive thanks to corporate welfare, but, still, I'll accept that this is bad capitalism.

When the health care bill fleeces all of us in 8 years with some complex Wall Street scheme, I'm sure Moore and the likes will run around decrying capitalism and conveniently forget that it was all corporate socialism and special interests to begin with, just as it was when FDR took us down this road by telling us not to save money and instituting an economy of endless currency supply to avoid paying back government debt (such as the war bonds that patriotic Americans bought). Oh well. We live in a fallen world, but we could make it better with more democracy which, Moore himself inadvertently shows when he covers the co-operative companies in the middle of his film, actually means practicing more capitalism locally.