I highly recommend this move. I don't think it is anti Christian. I believe that this is the Monty Python groups best work. They are so educated - in the best tradition of English universities, they know their classical history, Greek Roman to the transition to Judeo Christian.

In the Python Movie, Jesus Christ has only a brief appearance and he is presented as a noble, great spiritual speaker of truth. But, he is trying to speak simple, spiritual truths to well, regular people who are mostly morons, idiots, people like the people we know in our age.

I love the scene where Jesus is preaching his sermon on the mount and saying to the crowds:

"blessed are the meek"

Some regular idiots in the cheap seats at the back say:

"Did he say blessed are the GREEKS? Why should the Greeks be blesses" and the arguing and bickering starts, Christ message is screwed up and politicized from the start.

This movie also has a very, very interesting take on the conflict between Roman rule, the Pax Roman (Roman peace) and Jewish political ambitions with the Judeo Christian split happening.  Jews were upset that they were defeated and occupied by the Romans, non Jewish Gentiles who were arrogant in believing that the Roman way was better than other ways, including Jewish ways. The Jews were plotting secret terrorist rebellions against the Romans with the Jewish religious myth that a Jewish Messiah would appear to restore the glory of Jewish rule in Jerusalem. Christ comes as a prince of peace and this isn't the Messiah that many of the Jewish political leaders, high priests want.

There is a great scene where John Cleese is shouting at his Jewish terrorists to incite them to fight the Romans.

"What have the Romans ever done for us? Name one good thing Roman rule has brought us?"

A small voice in the back says:

"The aqueducts"

Then other voices start adding

"Roman roads, rule of law, modern medicine, schools etc".

Cleese clearly frustrated says "Yeah, well outside the aqueducts, the roads, rule of law, schools, modern medicine, civilization, what have the Romans ever done for us"?

The idea being that yeah, the Romans weren't the complete bad guys and terrorists and anti colonial rebellions aren't always noble etc.

I really liked this movie. I enjoy movies about important parts of history, the Python Troop was the best. Maybe they will reunite to do a tongue and cheek movie about the prophet Mohammed and his followers who might not have gotten the message right..... don't think this type of humor goes over well with Muslims who are not known to have a good sense of humor.