Karas was really hyped up a lot, at least from what I personally heard and read about it. It's a terrific anime that is groundbreaking in some areas, but it also has some severe faults, so it does not deserve all the hype it gets.

The Good - Obviously, the fighting scenes. The mix of 2D and 3D graphics is spectacular. The directing and fight choreography during these scenes is even more spectacular. I've seen a lot of CG shows with awful 3D fight choreography, such as Final Fantasy Advent Children. It's also critically important in shows like Karas that one knows how to blend the 3D CG in a way that does not look out of place next to the non-CG scenes, whether they be live-action or cartoon. Karas does a great job of making the 3D CG animations fairly consistent with the style of the 2D cartoon animations that it uses. Although to be honest, I think the 3D still graphics are slightly too photo-realistic and would blend better with live-action than cartoon anime. Animation-wise though, the 3D and 2D in Karas work together very well.

The music is also very good in Karas. The BGM is well-composed, like good American orchestral action movie music. The ending song is a bit different, a Japanese rock/pop song, but it is very nice also.

The Bad - Practically everything except the fighting scenes. I initially took a very optimistic view towards these scenes, but in the end I have to say that the non-fighting parts of this show are awfully done. It seems as if Karas turns into an entirely different show when no one is fighting. The directing style is different and just plain boring. The way the show plays out is also poorly planned. Things drag on for no reason, and viewers are left confused as to what is going on simply because most of what they are seeing is irrelevant to the main story issues.

The two detectives that drive the non-fighting parts of Karas are UTTERLY useless. They have done nothing of significance to contribute to the storyline thus far, and should never have existed. They only cause the show to drag on and be three times as long as it would be without them. This DVD only has the 1st half of Karas on it though, so perhaps the detectives will play a more critical role later on. They better, from my point of view, I've wasted so much time looking at their ugly mugs.

In a similar vein, the 2D anime drawing style in this series is not something I'm fond of. The drawings are almost nasty bad. The only people I could stand to look at were Yurine, Otoha, Nue, and the female Karas. Everyone else was ugly and nasty to the extreme and repeatedly struck me with temporary blindness.

Overall though, for the 9 to 15 dollars this DVD is going for, it's a total bargain and everyone should pick it up. It's a far better show than Final Fantasy Advent Children, coming out at the same time in the same places.