Pretentious faux-intellectual chronic-adolescent writer-director Marleen Gorris attempts to create a filmic Matriarchal who-needs-men? Agrarian Utopia (let's just say MAU from here on), populated mostly by Endearingly Quirky residents, plus some males who are tolerably lovable lugs at best, vicious sister-rapers at worst, and in one special case, Misanthropic Hermetic Scholar-Philosopher Who, Unlike The Great Mass Of Us Benighted Lumpen, Sees The Futility Of It All And Finally (but not nearly soon enough)Opts Out.  The MAU is presided over by All-Wise Earth Matriarch (think I'm over-doing the capital letters?  Just watch the DVD), much given to cliche'd aphorisms, who has returned with her teen-aged daughter to the village of her birth shortly following WWII, there to assume the family farm (parents & other relatives having mysteriously disappeared - especially grandmother!) and create afore-mentioned MAU where all is excruciatingly diverse, tolerant, nurturing, communal, agrarian, and correct.

Matriarch also sires line of remarkable female progeny - "Antonia's Line":  Daughter, the vision-prone Artist, who decides she wants a child but not a husband, thereby siring granddaughter Theresa, girl genius, and later, Artist (of musical persuasion), who eventually permits moony, adoring childhood (male) friend to seed her (Ms Gorris is coy about their marital status), thereby producing great-granddaughter, enigmatic & stunning copper-headed woman-child, and, undoubtedly, future Artist.  We might suppose that Great-Granddaughter is a Celtic cuckoo in the nest except the girls are all Cuckoos, husbands being sooo last-millenium.  Matriarch also demonstrates her nurturing goodness by sporadically adopting about a half-dozen stray cats of the 2-legged variety, and so as the years fall away like autumn leaves, or some such triteism (there were so many I couldn't keep track), the Peaceable Kingdom grows, which we witness by the artful & original device of the extended-family meal which is always taken outdoors on a sturdy & elegantly weathered table which seems to grow with the commune (and in spite of perpetually gloomy skies, it never seems to rain at mealtime in MAU).

As everyone knows, Mother Nature favors virtuous matriarchal non-mechanistic muscle-powered communal agrarianism, and so rewards the MAUists with a life-long ruddy vigor - unlike the rest of us, they seem impervious to the slings & arrows of advancing age (with the exception of one of the males who is killed in a tractor accident, and that was surely intended as an cautionary tale).  Seemingly every third scene had the MAUists engaged in communal fence-raising or dirt-digging (or Matriarch scattering seeds from a large basket resting securely on one of her generous pre-raphaelite hips - a practice sure to provoke guffaws among real farmers).  After the fifth or six such scene I had my own vision - of a bored-to-tears editor sneaking in the Annoying Peasant scene from Monty Python's Holy Grail (`elp! `elp! Oi'm bein' repressed!).

Ms Gorris wants us to know she's no blue-sky dreamer; for example, she does not grant her characters immortality, and in fact the film starts at the end with Matriarch having decided that it's time for "the miracle of death" and sensibly making arrangements.  But Gorris hasn't much patience for these mundanities and dispenses with most of them in a single short scene (including the afore-mentioned tractor accident).  And so with this circle-of-life bit and yet another voice-over lecture from the adult great-granddaughter (who we don't get to see, alas! - by itself this could have redeemed the preceding ninety-some minutes), the film limps to a close.

Analysis is difficult when there is little to analyse, and even that little is as subtle as a battering ram; so let's just look at a few representative samples and the reader can either take my word that they are typical, or, if she has absolutely nothing else to do with ninety minutes, watch the DVD and let us know if I've erred:

Endearingly Quirky Characters 1 & 2 - Catholic Mad Madonna who howls at the full moon every 28 days, and her uptight Protestant downstairs (male) neighbor who thumps the ceiling with a broomstick during her lupine episodes, AND they carry this on for forty years, AND  are in love but can't mutually requite because of their differences of faith.  Who'd have thought that the rural Netherlands - in a country where prostitution is legal - still lives by these Medieval mores?  Why didn't Matriarch clasp these unfortunates to the bosom of MAU, where they could have left their hang-ups at the gate?

After deciding she wants to be a mother too, Daughter matter-of-factly goes shopping for a stud.  Mais oui.  The scene concludes with a heart-warming bit of post-coital arm-in-arm skipping-through-the-meadow female bonding.  However, Daughter's Magical Realist visions disappear for no reason that I could see after little Grand-daughter's prodigious gifts are revealed.  Maybe Gorris's special effects budget had been depleted.

After early on demonstrating that she's a walking calculator/encyclopedia and giving pseudo-math lectures while still a teen, girl-genius grand-daughter opts instead (mais oui!) to be a composer, that is, an Artist.  A few hours' research would be enough to convince most anyone but the Marleen Gorris's of the world that while many mathematicians are musical, there has as yet been only a single math genius who was also a celebrated composer (and alas, he was a male, and also seriously avant-garde - Greece's Yannis Xenakis).  It appears that the genetic codings for musical genius & mathematical genius are mutually exclusive; but then I suppose all things are possible for a female born into a well-managed MAU, including use of your Music School's auditorium for the composing of elevator music and possibly MAU film scores(I & my music school colleagues, both male & female, made do in 4x5 practice rooms and they wouldn't have been even that large if smaller pianos had been available).

Grand-daughter is also raped by the previously mentioned sister-raper who absented the village for some 15 years after plucky Daughter un-manned him with a pitch fork (or so we thought, and so it would've been anywhere but in Gorris World).  He returns a uniformed thug, the sly insinuation being that the armed forces welcome such to their ranks.  Grandmother Matriarch (not mother, curiously) takes up a shotgun and forces him out of the village pub and into the square, but then decides that dispensing with the miscreant is beneath her station and instead curses him roundly.  Now there is a fair amount of anthropological literature about how curses in primitive societies depend on the curser making the cursee believe absolutely in the potency of the curse.  If kept in gloatingly thuggish character, sister-raper would not have believed at all; would in fact have been hard pressed not to have laughed in Matriarch's face, shotgun or no.  But this is Gorris World and she can do as she pleases.  At any rate, the dirty work is left to the boys, with SR's brother finishing him off in a rain barrel (but not without Gorris suggesting that brother's motives were less than noble, or even retributive).

We mustn't neglect Mr. Crooked Finger.  Unaccountably in a math genius, Granddaughter, who Gorris was at some pains to have as a well-rounded genius and no gear-head idiot-savant, mais oui, early on takes a shine to this most pseudo of all pseudo-intellectuals, the gloomy scholar & philosopher.  But again, why wasn't Mr. Too Good For This World persuaded to join MAU?  Perhaps Gorris felt that a little gratuitous gravitas was needed to balance all the gratuitous quirkiness.

Finally, we should consider the place of the Artist in low-energy, low-industrial agrarian economies: There is none, at least not in enlightened non-oppressive cultures where the luxuries of the few can't be gotten on the backs of hordes of impoverished peons, as was the case in the good old days.  Wide-spread Art, especially Art-sans-Religion, is maybe the surest indicator of a wealthy, industrialized, and democratic society.  Low-energy, low-industrial societies simply can't generate enough excess wealth to support unproductive classes.  The Gorris's of the world would do well to read a few actual histories of life in the good old days, such as Fernand Braudel's "The Structures of Everyday Life"(in the 15th Century).  Among other things, she might discover that farm workers of the day were paid partly in grog, an indispensible anesthetic, so brutal were the working conditions.  The fantasy of a low-energy agrarian economy, be it small-communal or national, which can support non-productive classes is too widely believed to lay exclusively at Ms Gorris's doorstep, but since it undergirds her implicit economic argument I mention it in passing.

But perhaps I missed the point.  Maybe Antonia's Line was really a clever experiment is sociology: Load a script with every extant fatuous politically-correct cliche', over-load it in fact; relentlessly hammer the life-affirming agrarianism trope to the point of slapstick; slather on the quirky; give the whole mess a thick coat of Artist-as-cultural-nadir varnish, count the snickers and other reactions, feed it all into a computer and see if any cultural trends emerge.

Fail.  Almost nobody snickered.  Critics & audiences actually cheered; it won awards.

"Eh?", says the puzzled sociologist, "We must be witnessing the death of satire."