This is a splendidly acted filmed play - notice how I write "filmed play" for this is by no means a masterpiece in anything but acting.  Do not misinterpret what I say - Laurence Olivier's performance is a SPELLBINDING one, and, as with almost all the cast members, is just absolutely magnificent.

However, acting can only hold one's attention for all of "Richard III" if that person is a lover of the stage, because this `movie' feels like nothing more than filmed play.  I don't give a damn how good the acting is - I'm a film major and was abhorred at the lack of use of cinematic techniques.  Editing, camera angles, lighting, lenses, and so on could have taken this movie to another level.

I do not believe that a film should ever be so bland in its making - Technicolor is invariably the wrong choice for this, although that probably reflects the public's demand of it, so I'll let that slide.  The fact of the matter is, filming techniques COMBINED with those stellar performances would have made a knock-out hit.  Even if I attended theater performances regularly, I would still have disliked this movie, because it is not a movie and does not deserve that title.  This could have been one of the greatest films of our time (it was, after all, originally written by the greatest author of ALL time), but instead I found myself looking at my watch because it failed to glue my eyes to the screen.

If you want a glimpse of combining technique with acting, watch Al Pacino's "Looking For Richard" (1996).  It is filmed documentary style with handheld cameras and luminous lighting, which, although may not be the best way to film it, at least is one way to FILM it, creating a FILM.  I happen to believe that Pacino's film is a great movie and a must see for anyone who purchases this film.

So, if you love the theater or are a Shakespeare nut, go ahead and buy it - you'll love Olivier's performance (it's almost impossible not to).  But if you are a film lover first-hand, you will undoubtedly be disappointed.