WOW! First I want to say that I'm not a very religious person, so when someone suggested my husband and I watch this movie I was a little skeptical because I just knew it was going to be preachy..

My marriage is in serious trouble due to a lot of differnt events. Some are from my own selfishness and some are from my husbands substance abuse and infidelitys. I had heard so much about this movie that I was beginning to think that maybe I would give it a shot... You know.. what did I have to lose.. maybe an hour and a half of my time..

So I talked my husband into watching it with me and surprisingly we both enjoyed it. I could really relate to the couples marriage in that movie.. it was almost like someone had been filming our lives.

The movie was kind of bibical at times but honestly I did not mind it at all..  I found myself thinking about this movie for the next few days and the message it gave me.. Maybe the one thing that my marriage is missing is God.. I believe in God but I have never had a relationship with him.. I have always equated God with bible thumpers and alter calls at the church, not a power greater then myself whom I can rely on anytime any where.. He certainly has not been present in my marriage.

I'm really glad I watched this movie and I'm seriously considering buying it so I can watch it again.. I think it might take me a few times of viewing this to really appreciate the message behind it..

My Mother in Law gave us the book the Love Dare for Christmas and I kind of tossed it aside but now since I have seen the movie I have been flipping through it thinking that maybe I should give it a shot.. After all I have tried everything else to save my marriage, what do I have to lose.. I figure I lose nothing by taking 40 days and really trying to work on my marriage but I lose everything by sitting there and doing nothing.. So tomorrow I will start day 1 of the Love Dare... maybe I will be pleasently surprised by that as well.

Even if your skeptical.. give it a shot.. honestly what do you have to lose?