I was ecstatic when one of my fond childhood memories had finally been released on DVD.  How could I have been so incredibly wrong?

I remember Kansas City Bomber serving up an abundance of thrills and chills and gripping drama on and off the roller derby ring, but having recently seen it as an adult it was like a test of endurance to make it all the way to the end of the disc. I'm not trying to be overly dramatic when I say this movie was horrible. If there was an actual screenplay involved it must have been written within a twenty-four hour deadline.

Here's an example of how nonsensical the screenplay is. Early in the movie we hear rumors that KC's roommate/teammate was traded because of it possibly having something to do with KC's lusty relationship with the team owner.  KC is appalled at even the mere thought of such a thing and she takes action to confronts the owner head-on. The first thing he says is "Of course that's not the reason I traded her!" and the seccond thing he says is "OK, so maybe I was a bit jealous she gets to spend more time with you than I do",. And KC basically says something like "Well, you could have been a bit nicer about it", as they both carry on with the rest of their happy-go-lucky day. It's simply absurd!! First, why would the owner kick a player off of the team all because it's his lover's roommate--esspecially when he plans to give her her own swanky little nest on the water?? And what happened to KC going to save her teammates position on the team?? Incredibly muddled writing.

The action scenes in the ring would have been great if it weren't for Welch's big, mannish stunt woman overtly and clumsilly hiding her face with a wig and keeping her head facing the ground. There's no second guessing which shots feature Welch mainly because Welch isn't really doing much of anything that resembles action. As a matter of fact much of the roller derby action was handled with corny cartoon buffoonery. This movie makes the WWF look like the Ultimate Fighting Championship.

And then there's KC's seasoned old rival who's bitter towards KC because she knows KC is there to take her crown as the roller queen. It's just a one note performance of a woman grousing and crying in her beer and any scene that begins to give us a glimpse into who this woman is/was quickly turns into a sloppy meaningless fight scene. And all the men in the movie (with the exception of the gentle giant Hank) are relegated to being rude, crude, crotch-grabbing, raping neanderthals.

This is just the shell of a movie. It's also the seed of a GOOD movie. Unfortunately the only thing that grew out of this one is stink weed. And what an insult to Rachel Welch's career to even infer this was the greatest roll of her career.  You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know the studio's main objective was to find yet another action-packed way of selling Welch's undeniable sex appeal in a tight outfit and THAT they were successful in.