This was a "good" (not great) little indie movie from 2002 that had some major talent involved, and shows flashes of brilliance, but ultimately is a bit underdeveloped and lazy in the character development.  Definitely worth a watch, but could have been better.

Agnes Bruckner is good and believable as the protagonist.  Unfortunately, her character (IMO, due to the script) varies between being compelling and maddening.  It is almost hard to believe that someone who is so inexpressive as she is in the early part of the movie would write poetry at all.  It is mostly Bruckner's likability and the look behind her eyes that makes her character sympathetic (check out when she steals from a drug store...we still are rooting for her), as her character really shows little of what supposedly is roiling around inside of her.  In contrast, her little sister's character stands out much more (the little girl who played her was fabulous), and it is a pity that she departs from the story when she does, as her presence gave it depth.  The mother's character is mostly cliched and one note, and the conflict between her and Bruckner's character, no matter how much *some* of it may be real, unfortunately pushes the story into weaker territory.  Check out the M/D relationship in "thirteen" to see this portrayed more believably.

This could have been a good movie and made it's point without the introduction of the sexual element into it, but once that is introduced, the movie takes a turn for the worse.  By the end, Bruckner is supposed be the sympathetic figure here, even though she instigated the change (careful for what you wish for!), and David Strathairn's character, while having brought about and nurtured Bruckner for months or years is suddenly turned into a vapid predator whose entire character is a lie, which mostly conflicts with the character he has played the whole movie.  I'm not saying scenarios like what was portrayed don't happen, but the people they were supposed to be wouldn't have handled it that way, and Bruckner's character wasn't fleshed out enough to make her anything but pedestrian.  The ambiguity may have been "real", but real can also be compelling, and this wasn't.

The director obviously had a statement she was trying to make, but it came off seeming more like a personal one than something enlightening for her audience.  It's too bad, because Bruckner, Strathairn, and the wonderful girl who played Bruckner's sister deserved better.  It is also good to see a movie of this nature made, about real characters, understated, and not Hollywood-ed up.  Oh, and did I mention how great it is to hear Lori Carson's music in the soundtrack?  It just seemed to me that that the writer/director was trying harder to make a statement about how she feels than a compelling movie.