n a year where American film audiences have been flocking to sub-par romantic comedy action hybrids, I'm happy to say that we have not done any worse, any more unrealistic, any more unlikable, any more unromantic, any more farfetched, or any more unfunny than The Bounty Hunter. In fact, it's probably one of the worst films of 2010.

Jennifer Aniston plays Nicole, the bail-jumping ex-wife of Gerard Butler's Milo, a fired cop who has since become a bounty hunter. He takes the assignment to pick his ex wife up, and take her to jail. But, somewhere down the line, a bunch of incomprehensible mumbo-jumbo about a murder, a cover-up, and other scoff-worthy cliches cause the two of them to flee, and of course, romance ensues, and it leads the two talented stars into the clutches of rom-com hell.

This is a film that simply tries too hard to be funny, exciting, romantic, and entertaining. It is entertaining for about the first half-hour, and then starts a downward spiral from which it never recovers. It's a shame that Jennifer Aniston, who has been in top form, for the past five years, giving glowing performances in every film she's been in (Friends With Money, The Break-Up, The Good Girl) chose a dud like this. I'm glad to say that her comic gifts have yet to leave her, however her ability to pick a good one seems to be long gone.

The characters in this film could have been so well-written and so interesting, but unfortunately, the lazy writers didn't know what to do with them, and it makes me wonder how detailed the script was anyway. While Aniston's character was somewhat interesting in the film's first act, Butler's character was the most revolting stereotype that I've seen in a film this year. He played the jackass. No more, no less. His character didn't take one unexpected move, or one unforeseen turn.

The one redeeming quality that this film had lied in its supporting cast. Curb Your Enthusiasm's Jeff Garlin and Christine Baranski have about five minutes of screentime a piece, and they bring more life to the table than the rest of the cast does in a painful 110 minutes. While Butler should just stay as far away from the romantic comedy genre as possible, and while Aniston simply needs a better manager, they both look as attractive and gorgeous as ever. There's nothing else for either of them in this disaster, however.