I'm a great fan of this movie, it's probably in my personal top ten favorite films (or if not then definitely in the top twenty), but while it's a great film this is not a great DVD.
The transfer of the movie is acceptable but not great - it's in widescreen as it should be, but there is still dirt and noise in various parts. The color and sharpness are superior to the previous VHS versions of course but that's about it.
The main thing the DVD lacks is extras - this "set" is a single disc containing both the movie and supplements, and the only significant one is the "World of the Dark Crystal" making-of documentary. Everything else is lacking. There are storyboards, very well drawn storyboards in fact, but there is only a small sampling of a few of them (6 I think, maybe less) not storyboards for the whole movie. Then there are character illustrations and profiles - when I first saw these I though "great, well worth having" as they are beautiful pieces of artwork by Brain Froud - however I quickly realized that there are only a few of these too, not one for every character, or at least every major character, as I had hoped.
The biggest disappointment was the lack of running commentary. This is my favorite feature on any DVD, particularly when there are several commentary tracks. When they are well done it's a fantastic feature - see Fight Club, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (Criterion edition), The Lord of the Rings series (extended editions), The Simpsons box sets and most of Kevin Smith's movies for examples of great commentaries. So how many commentary tracks do you get on this DVD? Zero. 0. Goose egg. Nada. Zip. Zilch. I know Jim Henson is dead, and it was tragic that he died so young, but Frank Oz, the co-director and a  major performer in the film is still with us as are many others who worked on it, as well as Jim Henson's kids, and so on. I'm not buying another edition of this DVD after feeling ripped off by this one however, so if they do crank out the "ultra super mondo special really really final and this time we mean it" edition with commentary I'm not buying it. Had this version been correctly priced for what it is, $20, maybe $25 max instead of $45, I might have shelled out again for another future edition but as it is, forget it.
The reproduction of Jim Henson's original notepad with his first ideas for The Dark Crystal is really rather dull and uninteresting. The frame of 35mm film from the movie that comes in the set is a novelty but not really a big deal - and that's about all you get. In this day and age where you can get some really great values on DVD (Lord of the Rings extended editions for example) this stands out as a bad deal. The Simpsons seasons 2 and 3 sets cost about $12 less than this for far more material, same for The Lord of the Rings films. 
Go for the more basic, less expensive version of the DVD, the "boxed set" isn't worth it, though this great movie definitely is.
Overall 3 stars - would have been 4 stars if it was reasonably priced, 5 if they had the extras like commentary too. The movie by itself is 5 stars, the DVD by itself is 2 stars at best.