I find it fairly sad that most people are able to view this movie as an insightful examination of the Catholic Church and it's rules rather than a fairly mean spirited attack by some people whose view of the church has  probably been shaped by either the Tabloids or personal experience.  Either  way, as a drama, this film is full of clich&eacute;'s, and fails to give the  characters a consistent nature, for example: When Linus Roach's character  hears the confession of the young girl who says her father is molesting  her, he is not allowed to tell anyone of her problem.  Why?  It's against  the church law.  It is also against the church law to have sex after  becoming a priest, but he sees no harm in doing that because other priests  are doing it. When the father of the young girl comes into the confessional  and tells him that he molests his daughter and will keep right on doing it,  the priest doesn't tell.  Why?  Because whoever wrote the screenplay either  forgot about the rules of confession or knows only what they saw in I,  Confess.  The father did not repent for his sins and ask for forgiveness,  on the contrary, he said he enjoyed what he did and said he would do it  again.  He didn't confess, he bragged.  And the priest cannot tell of a sin  that a person confesses, but if the person says they are not sorry and will  continue to commit the act, the priest is in no way bound to not tell  anyone.  It is his duty as a priest and human being to report this to the  authorities.  And even if he couldn't tell anyone, the same law applies for  doctors and lawyers, I certainly don't see them being crucified for that.  Any problems that the priest has with his vows and the church are his vows.  He made them; no one forced him, so he obviously knew what would be  expected of him.  I certainly don't think a movie would look this  sympathetically on a married man who decides he can longer stand the idea  of only sleeping with one woman for the rest of his life and proceeds to  have affairs outside of the marriage.  And then complains to her that it's  not fair she prohibit him from sleeping around because it's in his nature  to do so.  A lot of critics praised this movie, and save their own  prejudices as the reason, I cannot understand why.  The movie has some  terrific acting, rising it above one star level.  But if you're looking for  a movie that asks real questions about the church and the lives of the  priests in a fresh and original way, you'll have to look elsewhere.  But if  you don't like Catholics, this movie will probably reinforce