The biggest difference between Feast and Feast 2 is mostly found in the change from heavy blood and gore campiness to scatalogical campiness.  Sure, there are a few moments where the focus is on the monster getting people, but while the first Feast felt gratuitious as a way of forming campiness, Feast II is horribly gratuitious just to be gratuitious.

If you like fart/urine/scat/semen/penis swinging humor, then this movie will probably make you giggle and laugh (though best if not entirely somber before watching it--and I said "somber" because I don't want to encourage young people to get 'high' just to enjoy a show).  However, if you enjoyed the horror camp of Feast, you won't find it in this sequel.

I try to find things to like in any movie I watch, and I do enjoy the same visual crudeness in camera angles and transitions that I saw in Feast, and some of the acting is quite good.  You have to suspend disbelief when the electricity decides to stay on longer for a crucial moment than it has in any other scene, and one wonders how a guy is killed in a locked shop which one of our heroines cannot escape because it is locked, but again, if you have a juvenile sense of humor and appreciate the things that make a ten year old giggle (he said "penis"! hee hee/ he farted hee hee), then you might actually like this movie.

I'd give it a 3 to balance out my preference for non-juvenile humor and my distaste for scatalogical jokes, except that would imply I liked the film.  I had to stop watching it when the fourth or fifth liquid spewed from the alien's body as it was just too much without purpose.

Again, if you don't hate gross body functions that serve no real purpose, this movie might be a 3 or 4 for you.  If you hate that sort of thing (as I truly do but wanted to give it a fair shot) it's probably a 1 at most.

I did admire the actor who played Thunder, who was willing to run around with only his mucho lucho libre mask on and his overly endowed genitalia swinging in the wind through more than one scene.  Of course, he has reason to boast, but even so, it takes a lot of huevos to display it all in a movie like this.  ON some level, I should warn people that between him and the monsters, it has moments where it feels like a sausage-fest, but I think that will appeal to the tittering juvenile boys purely because of shock value.

I hope this helps people who like and dislike some of these qualities in films figure out whether it will appeal to them, rather than bashing it wholesale.

Afraid to try Feast III after this, but you never know, I might get bored.