I picked this one up in the $5 bin at Best Buy.  I suppose it was a little better than some of the other movies in the bin, but it was not the "diamond in the rough" I was hoping for.

I wanted to like this movie, I really did.  I really enjoyed watching the "making of" features more than the actual movie.  A major thing I noticed right away, NO BLOOD.  I mean, there are scenes where it shows a cut on 'Violet's' hand, or something like that, but in all of the crazy fight scenes where people are getting shot up, stabbed, and slashed with knives and swords, there is absolutely no blood spray at all.  In my opinion, it's too bad because the fight scenes were pretty good yet the lack of any combat related bloodshed really took away from the realism of the "fantasy world" that a movie tries to create.  Also, since the movie is basically about contaminated blood (more or less) I think, just my opinion again, that combat related blood spray could have really enhanced the story line.

Some of the special effects (mostly CG related) could have been done better.  For example, the motorcycle chase scene backgrounds (the CG rendered ones) weren't very polished.  At the time this movie was made, the technology was definitely available to make higher quality CG.

Despite the fact that the "Prologue", for lack of a better word, said that the world was different from the world we know, it would have been nice if they took a few minutes to explain some of the extra-ordinary things, like how Violet can store weapons on her person seemingly virtually, or why the hell her hair, glasses, and outfit change colors every 3 minutes.  I mean, these are neat concepts that could have been explored more functionally, but mostly they were there for aesthetics as she only changed colors for camouflage purposes, like, one time.  The gravity manipulation stuff was a great idea, but it too was abandoned shortly after it was introduced.  So much more could have been done with these great ideas.

The fight scenes were great (except the no-blood thing).  The story had promise.  Most of the characters lacked any real depth (really more the fault of the writers than the actors).  It would have been nice if they would have made the movie about 30 minutes longer so they could explain some things, and give us, the viewing audience, a chance to bond with some of the characters so we might actually care what happens to them.  As it stands, I started losing interest pretty quickly and hung in there hoping things would get better.

In short, this movie was alright, but there are definitely better movies out there in the $5 bin.