A Word To The Critics: If you're not into the genre, don't rate the film. This movie was panned so badly by every conceivable movie critic (except Ebert), it's a wonder anyone went to see it at all.  The only people qualified to comment on how good/bad a movie is should only be done by people who enjoy that kind of movie. It was very obvious that the same boring people who thought "Moulin Rouge" was the best thing since "The Piano", should not go see a horror movie. They don't have a background to judge it.  They should leave that sort of thing to the people who get into it --- like me!!

I love a good horror movie. Especially a good vampire/monster movie. And when you have more than one . . . all I need is a bag of popcorn, a superlarge drink and some Milk Duds and my afternoon is set!!  This was not Oscar material, but it was a great vampire/monster movie.  I made it a point not to watch too many ads so I'd be genuinely surprised at the characters and the developing plot line.

I have a great many gay friends, so I feel at liberty to say this next statement. Dracula was a flaming queen.  I was left to wonder which of his minion was the "father" of all those bat babies. It surely wasn't him. All he needed was some blue eye shadow and a gown and he surely would have passed as queen of the ball.  I think a stronger Dracula presence was needed in the film --- of course, in casting, why wouldn't you have a more unassuming Dracula character, deceiving in his fopishness, while stronger and more ruthless than anyone could imagine?  Why not indeed.  So maybe it was a good choice after all.

The vampire brides were deliciously wicked. I think they were actually the highlight of the film.  When the first bat babies started dying in mid-flight, the girls' expressions and agony were comic yet tragic. I literally loved seeing them suffer!! The Frankenstein monster was a great pick as well.  He showed great humanity through the makeup.

Of course, the stoic Jackman made a picture perfect Van Helsing. All business, no nonsense at first -- and then they humanize him after his wolfman encounter.  Very effective characterization.  In fact, each character (except Dracula) seemed custom-fitted to their roles. I sort of expected a dreary overcast backdrop for most of the movie, but was pleasantly surprised to see plenty of light so the CGI effects could be shown with maximum intensity and clarity.  It was good stuff. The transformation sequences were excellent;  some of the best of recent memory and on a par with "The Mummy" and "X-Men" effects.

In all, you get what you expect with this flick and more. But if you go in looking for the existential meaning of the inner core of humanity, forget it. This ain't that movie.  If you want to see a vampire movie with a twist or two, a werewolf movie with at least one plot line developed, a Frankenstein movie that doesn't degrade the intent of the original and a vampire hunter movie that doesn't disappoint, then you can get all four movies in one with this one.

Why 4 stars instead of 5??  Because it's hard to develop a movie from a comic book and keep the storyline and plot development on a par with a made for film story. There are some gaps here and there but that doesn't make it a bad movie.

Will I buy it when it comes out?  Of course.