I REALLY wanted to like this movie. I really did. But anyone thats KNOWN a single gang member (I grew up in these neighborhoods, it aint pretty, and it aint even like "COPS"), the typical ones; brain ruined from a lifetime of tragedy, horror, drug abuse, malnutrition, neglect, sociopathic behavior and pure evil... NONE of the characters displayed any of this in the film. Every  so-called "thug" was just a "Oh, I'm sad and lonely, but I'm a good kid inside with a tough wall up guarding my feelings" OH SHUT UP. That alone ruined the movie. NONE of what REALLY happened with the real punks this movie is based on is in the movie...read around on the Net after you see this glorified piece of garbage.

Oh, and why cant Hollywood make a movie about a WHITE guy trying to save these kids? ESPECIALLY WHEN ITS THE TRUTH? Nope, can only portray Whites as evil perpetrators of 'disadvantaged' youth. fact is, and look it up for yourself, the Coach says that the schools that finally gave him a break only did so after a legal threat, and they assumed since the Coach was white, the players would be too, thinking they had a "White, and less violent" brand of incarcerated youth. The movie twists this around, making  everyone involved look like hardcore racists, when that simply isnt true.

This movie should be re-done, and the pulp-fiction style of jumping from one story to another should be removed. You never know the characters, or whom the other people are, or WHEN anything happened. They make up fake gang rivalries which simply arent like that at all in real life. Hey, I knew Jerry Walker from Burleigh St in Milwaukee, I know what I'm talking about. Hollywood must have asked a writer for Seinfeld to write this script.

At least the end of the DVD shows the real coach, and the messed-up mindset of the REAL kids interviewed at this facility. One kid was obsessed with gaining approval from his mom...two words out of him and you know his mind is messed up. THATS the reality of gang life...a messed up mind and nowhere else to go. THATS why they never leave. The AWFUL acting of these people ridicules the entire story.