'Rat Race' is a zany little comedy with many big name stars, and jokes that are sometimes good, sometimes just o.k. For the most part, it is a pretty funny film, and there is probably something that most people will find adequately comedic about it.
  The movie starts out in a Las Vegas hotel/casino. Whilst playing the slot machines, 8 people find a coin which directs them to a secret meeting with the hotel/casion owner. He informs them that some 500 miles away, in Silver City, New Mexico, is a train station. Inside that station is a locker, and inside that locker is $2,000,000. They are all given a key, and told to "go" - whoever gets there first winning the money. The race is on, and the hotel/casino owner is keeping a watchful eye on them, as he is also taking bets as to who the winner will be.  Each of the people who are in the race take different modes of transport to get to the desired location. This makes for the bulk, and the most hilarious portion, of the film. Along the way, there are jokes and running gags to do with Nazis, Lucille Ball impersonators, a crazy squirrel merchant, and more. Much of the humor is accessible and makes you laugh, or at least chuckle. Some of the humor, however, is rather crude. I still found it funny, but be warned: If you are disdainful of certain jokes whose basis lies in bodily functions, human organ dis-respect, abuse of animals, or anything along those lines - then this is *not* the movie for you. All of the aforementioned jokes, though they sound bad, are actually handled well (as well as can be expected), but they *do* make up a substantial portion of the film.
  Many of the talents used in 'Rat Race' include Whoopi Goldberg, John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson (re-using many aspects of his Mr. Bean persona), Cuba Gooding, Jr., Breckin Meyer, Seth Green, and a plethora of others. There are a few surprises, and the movie takes a lot of unexpected, very funny turns.
  This is a screwball comedy which simply wants to make you laugh for a couple of hours. It is fluff, but fluff in the best possible sense. Quite enjoyable. I left the cinema with a smile on my face.