Upon hearing that Jack Black is going to be your new teacher, one reaction might be to run for the hills.  A second, more reasonable reaction (given Mr. Black's recent catapult to fame and "hipster status") would be: "This ought to be _____ (interesting, cool, fun, spunky, wild...choose an adjective.)"  All of those descriptions work to explain Jack Black's teaching style in the aptly titled School of Rock, in which Black turns a class of bewildered seventh graders into a full-fledged rock `n roll band.

Jack Black plays Dewey Finn, an unemployed guitarist in a rock band going nowhere.  He lives in a rented room with henpecked substitute teacher Ned Shneebly and Ned's domineering girlfriend who is as welcoming of Dewey as Norman Bates is of passing travelers.  This is because Dewey hasn't paid his rent in ages, and he needs to come up with a heap of cash or he'll get the boot from the apartment.  It doesn't help that he's just been voted out of his band because they've decided he "sucks too much" to play with them at the upcoming Battle of the Bands.  But when Dewey picks up a phone call from Horace Green Prep School asking if Ned is available to substitute teach for a few weeks, Dewey senses his chance to make some quick money. He pretends he's Ned and agrees to teach the class, despite his obvious lack of know-how. As expected, he's a complete failure as a teacher, but he gets an idea when he witnesses their talents in music class.  Dewey plans to turn the group of youngsters into a rock band and take them to play at the Battle of the Bands in order to win prize money, all while avoiding the comically stringent school principal who is completely oblivious to his "project."

If nothing else, it's a great idea.  Sure, we've seen the general framework before ("Hard-core dude meets his biggest challenge: children!") in movies like Kindergarten Cop and Daddy Day Care, but School of Rock is one of the better movies of this fray.  Why?  Because out of this formula stems a concept that is original and worthwhile. It's also one to which many of us can relate-we've all had teachers we thought were boring, and perhaps we wished someone like Jack Black would step in and teach us instead.  That's really what makes the kids' transformations so fun to watch: Dewey loosens them up and actually gets them to realize the range of their musical abilities (there is a constructive element to Dewey's teaching after all.)

Nobody could have played Dewey as effectively as Jack Black.  Nobody.  Dewey has his head in the clouds (he thinks he's a better guitarist than he actually is,) his legs on the ground (he's as cool as your uncle,) one foot firmly planted in the `70s rock `n roll era and the other foot in a beer can.  He's a classics-loving party animal with big dreams, and it's the perfect vehicle for Jack Black to bring his delightfully hammy Tenacious-D antics to the big screen.  Unbelievably, though, Jack Black doesn't entirely steal the show, which is a feat considering he's the only headliner (pun intended) in the movie.  The schoolchildren play their parts with similar zeal.  They may be caricatures, but that doesn't mean they aren't worthy characters-in fact, the more one-dimensional schoolchildren are in films, the more lovable they are.  This is because a class of children is really a collective, so their outstanding traits combine to make a multi-dimensional group.  In School of Rock, they're all here: the unhip nerd, the aloof valedictorian, the rebellious troublemaker, the cool guitarist stifled by his parents, and so on.  They're predictable, but that works to their advantage-they become "tools" for Dewey to work his magic.

Unfortunately, the film still has some flaws.  Last I checked, School of Rock is a comedy, but the writers apparently forgot to include a crucial comedic element: jokes.  There are few sprinkled in there (and quite funny, too,) but when I got right down to it, I was forced to realize that the humor survived off of Jack Black's charismatic line delivery alone.  I mentioned earlier that School of Rock sports a great idea, but having said that, the film is a bit better in theory than it is in practice: it's really a one-trick pony from start to finish.  Add to that a two-hour running time (on the lengthy side for a comedy,) and the film begins to lose steam as it approaches the end.  Finally, for all of Jack Black's comic greatness, the writers don't give him a whole lot to work with.  Far too many times does he divulge his almost fanatical devotion to rock `n roll, and while that may play well on a 40-minute Tenacious-D CD, this kind of unvaried writing tends to become grating in a two-hour feature film.  He's even forced to repeat a line of dialogue ("But that's a very important job!")-a telltale sign of screenwriters asleep at the wheel.

Even still, all the ranting and raving in the world can't disprove that School of Rock is an enjoyable movie purely on the surface-that is to say, picking it apart is more fruitless than just sitting back with popcorn and soaking it in.  You'd also be hard-pressed to find a more original comedy this year (especially considering the recent wasteland of sophomoric gross-out comedies hitting our theaters like spitballs,) and by virtue of that alone, it shouldn't be overlooked.