So I just saw this on TV. Usually, I channel surf during the commercials but this movie was so suspensful that I actually stayed on the same channel waiting for it to come back. I wasn't expecting much for a movie with Paul Walker in it, but it was actually pretty good.

It's a basic plot with two brothers, Lewis (Paul Walker) and Fuller (Steve Zahn) driving around with Lewis' long time friend and crush, Venna (Leelee Sobieski). It starts off with Lewis calling Venna and then making plans to pick her up from college and drive home. Along the way, he picks up his recently out of jail brother, Fuller, and off they go.

Before reaching the college, they play a mean joke on an unsuspecting truck driver, who calls himself "Rusty Nails", mostly initiatied by Fuller, the more cruel of the two. So after a few close encounters with this psychotic truck driver, who remains unseen for most of the movie, they pick up Venna. The brothers are so close to death at one point that it seems kind of illogical that they don't run for help, but instead kind of blow it off as a mean joke. That's one of the few things about the movie that bothered me.

The real horror comes in a little later after they run into this crazy truck driver again and they realize just how much he doesn't like being made a fool out of. It's a crazy chase along the highway that's extrememly enthralling and it gave me a mini heart attack.

The final scenes at the motel end the movie nicely. You're dying to see what this truck driver looks like and what happens to Venna and the brothers.

Minor things that bothered me were the fact that this huge truck was able to follow them across the country unseen by them. Why don't they immediately call for help after the first time they run into this crazy guy? Why are they even still using that radio after the truck driver nearly kills the guy in the room next to them?! Oh yeah and Fuller was a little repulsive, first he gets them into the whole mess by suggesting the prank, then he tries to go after the girl his brother has a crush on, and then he picks up the radio just to egg the guy on even though it's pretty obvious that he shouldn't. But other than that, good movie =)