That's the crux of it.  Title says the basic points.

INFERNO was the first view of previous Doctors, pre-Baker, the USA got after the Doctor's rise to popularity in 1979.  Sadly, this story dates even more now, and the restoration team didn't do enough restoration to the sad quality of color on the old tapes or film they worked from.  But, better something then nothing.  They could have chosen much better then INFERNO when digging from the Pertwee era, and alternately they could have chosen worse.

It is 7 episodes, and lags as such.  Every 2 episodes could have been compressed into one.  Pertwee's first season was notorious for a few rooms per story, and then 7 episodes of travelling between rooms and talking, fighting, or running like crazy to escape something.  INFERNO does it best of the others, but it still seems like a way to fill space.  Basic idea is that a scientist is being funded by the UK to drill deep below the crust to discover/create a new and limitless form of energy.  Instead he unleshed a jelly from below that turns people into green werewolves that like heat, and just when things are heating up the Doctor thrusts himself into a sideways dimension, a parallel earth, which is ruled by fascist Britons!(presumably Nazi)  As he attempts to convince them he isn't a spy to the project, he witnesses the world go into werewolf doomsday and returns in the nick of time to save OUR earth from disaster.

Sure, fun for the kiddies, but the magical science fiction and obtuse idea of the lava werewolves is pretty goofy. It is reminiscent of much of Pertwee's era, and the modern Who, where sci-fi is merely a vehicle to be a post modern and magical contrivance instead of a play of perceptions by extrapolating popular science to meet a zeitgeist.  Even funnier is the obviously socialist-British underlying message that only PRUDENT GOVERNMENT can properly control and understand science... what silly bunk.  No wonder no one smiled in EITHER world - socialist dentistry.