Words cannot do this movie justice - and yet I will try.  I hope you find this helpful (sorry it's so long - but trust me, you'd rather be reading this than watching the movie).  I write this for the people who are interested in catching up for "Batman Begins".  I am telling you, do NOT see this movie.  It will take away any interest that you may have in Batman.  Or living, for that matter.  Let me elucidate.  This movie is BAD.  No, not Showgirls "cult" bad.  Not Superman IV "run out of ideas" bad.  It's worse.  MUCH worse.  Let's start at the beginning.

Tim Burton's Batman was a great movie, and although there are people who don't like it, hardly anyone can say that the original movie didn't do wonders for the comic book movie industry.  It took the feel of the Frank Miller story and changed Batman from a campy guy in tights into a dark, meaningful hero.  Batman Returns was an average sequel, and I've certainly enjoyed many other Tim Burton movies over that one.  Even so, it is worth your time.  Who can resist Catwoman? (Michelle Pfeiffer, of course.  Don't even mention Halle Berry.  That's a WHOLE other awful travesty to review.)

When Joel Schumacher took over the franchise with Batman Forever, I actually didn't mind as much as most.  I actually enjoyed some of the color and campiness that he injected into the movie.  However, I really had wished that when Two-Face was brought to the screen, it would be much more complex.  Still, it was enjoyable to watch for the most part.  But it could not prepare me for what was to come.

Because then came...Batman & Robin.  The movie that did something that no other movie in recent memory has been so adept at.  This is the movie that truly killed a franchise.  (At least until now.)

Without a doubt, the worst movie that I have ever seen.  Not just because of the plot or the direction - but truly the glee in which the franchise was ripped apart.  We've heard about directors who show that they love the source material - to this day I cannot understand why Joel Schumacher and Akiva Goldsman would foist this upon an audience that grew up with Batman, and simply wanted to see good movies that did the characters justice.

The cast is varying.  George Clooney, I thought, made a really good Batman.  Alfred Gough is always good.  Chris O'Donnell was OK too.  Hey, I could even deal with Arnold as Freeze.  (Barely.)  But Uma Thurman, Alicia Silverstone, and the rest of this cast...wow.  Perhaps it was just them, or they just had some horrible direction.  (I'll give you an example - Jeremy Irons is a great actor - but have you SEEN his performance in Dungeons and Dragons?  Explain THAT one.)  Regardless of the acting, that doesn't even add up to what made this movie what it is.

There are things in this movie that defy explanation.  When Alicia stumbled into the batcave and Alfred's video played saying that he had prepared something just for this eventuality, I truly could have wept.  The sight of three separate vehicles with each character going to the same place screamed "buy our toys".  The fight scenes were horrible, and there are so many things in this movie I could name that just defy logic.  I will say this - I saw this movie once, when it opened.  The fact that I am still scarred by all of this should tell you how truly tragic this movie is.  How great it could have - SHOULD have been.  Sure, the bat-nipples definitely don't help - but they weren't the straw that broke the Bat's back.

The soundtrack was decent, and since I enjoy the Smashing Pumpkins, was truly the only thing I could take away from this horrible travesty.  Although there were some bad clunkers on there as well.

Joel Schumacher and Akiva Goldsman nearly destroyed a franchise.  That is simply how BAD this movie is.  The fact they are still in Hollywood after Batman astounds me. And yet, Schumacher goes on to pollute such properties as the Phantom of the Opera, while Goldsman somehow goes on to win an oscar for a Beautiful Mind.  There's justice for you.  Ah well...as long as they never come near Batman again, I'll be OK.

Here's looking forward to a new era of Batman with Christian Bale and Darren Aronovsky.  My favorite quote is when he said in an interview - "Bruce Wayne is the secret identity (the mask).  Batman is who he truly is."  More than I'd expect from Schumacher.

And if you decide to still see this movie, I will pray for your soul.