Growing up, 'The Land Before Time' was my favorite movie. I watched it over and over. I had it memorized. It was an incredible movie. Then, years later I see 'Dinosaur' and I think "Where have I seen this before?". The egg sequence at the very beginning was so obviously torn from that movie. And that's just the first scene.
An orphaned dinosaur must team up with a band of misfits after a great disaster to find a fabled, fertile land where dinosaurs can survive, meanwhile being chased by angry carnivores. C'mon Disney. You're not even TRYING. That's identical to 'The Land Before Time'. 
Although the digital effects are stunning in this movie, they only serve a purpose in the beginning and the end. The rest of the movie is just boring, brown and grey, made my eyes hurt after a while.
This movie takes 'The Land Before Time' and put's it through the Disney movie-making machine. You have the main character, a virtuous young male who wants nothing more than to fix all the wrongs in this world, the beautiful female that's in love with him and that you know will eventually marry him in the end (After he ALMOST loses a battle with the bad guy, of course), and you can't have a Disney movie without the cute, fuzzy, comedy relief. I'll admit, 'The Land Before Time' had a cute comedy relief. (Petry, the Pteradactal (sp?) that couldn't fly) but the difference here is that Petry was actually cute and funny. I didn't want to see him get stomped by a brontosaur like that annoying, knappy-haired monkey.
This movie is geared towards children, but I find it hard to imagine a child being able to enjoy this the whole way through. For kids, I would recommend renting... you guessed it... 'The Land Before Time'. It doesn't have fancy-shmancy digital effects. It was created in a time where movies had to depend on good writing, interesting characters, and enthralling plot to keep people's attention. And, you know what, it STILL looks better than 'Dinosaur'.
I realize that, considering this a review of 'Dinosaur', I mention 'The Land before Time' way too much. But it doesn't matter, 'Dinosaur' and 'The Land Before Time' are pretty much the same movie anyway.