The book, Blood Work (Michael Connelly) was excellent, one of my favorite of Connelly's many "cop thrillers".  The movie Blood Work so grossly butchered Connelly's book that even the entire ending, including the killer, differs from the book.  How and/or why Connelly would allow his name/book to be connected to this drivel is beyond me.

Clint Eastwood as Terry McCaleb is the most unbelievable character in the movie.  When reading Blood Work, at no point in time would I have imagined someone like Eastwood as McCaleb.  McCaleb is supposed to be in his 40s...Eastwood is most assuredly NOT capable of playing the role of a man in his 40s.  The problems with the movie hardly end there, however.

The casting of Graciela was horrid.  The chemistry between these two is so incredibly forced in the movie.  It took me thinking back to the book to envision that these two really could have had a relationship because onscreen...it was just so far-fetched.  The delivery of lines/dialogue was like pulling teeth.  Graciela was horribly done and I can't think of a single redeeming thing about the casting of this character.

The casting for the supporting roles was better, but still did not do anything to save this awful flick.  The casting for Buddy (Jeff Daniels) and Bolotov were good - they have a glimmer of hope to this waste of film/time/brain cells.  Arrango (Paul Rodriguez) was made to seem much more comical than he was in the book and even without having first read the book, Rodriguez did an awful job (or rather, his dialogie was so poorly written that he had no way of doing a decent job with it).

The plot was just ridiculous...the sequence of events and time line was so incredibly unbelievable and the story took so many turns that were just out of nowhere.  The movie opens with a totally out of place scene with the so-called "CODE KILLER" (though I don't think they mention a THING about this in the movie, those who read the book will know that's who he's supposed to be).  McCaleb has a heart attack (I think...whatever it was, it's not what happened to him in the book) while chasing down the Code Killer.  Then the plot skips all over the place from McCaleb getting a new heart, to being visited by Graciela, to the completely random Russian/Bolotov angle (which actually made sense in the book...Bolotov was absolutely pointless in the movie the way it was written)...my head was spinning after trying to decipher the storyline and time line.

THe kicker was that the killer (won't spoil it for anyone who actually would still think watching this piece of garbage is a good idea) is not the killer from the book and that, had I not known the 'true' killer from reading the book, I would have immediately suspected this movie version killer.  The "clues" weren't clues so much as shoving the supposed "surprise" in your face and then wondering why no one was surprised at the ending.  And the boy figuring it out was just stupid.  The way it was written in the book was wonderful...this was a lame attempt at working the boy into the movie in some way (whereas in the book, there was a definite purpose of the boy's inclusion in the story).

All in all, this was a lousy adaptation...one that deviated so far from the book that the only similarities are character names and the occasional tidbit of plot crossover in the very beginning.  The suspense was non-existent and the acting was largely terrible.  Jeff Daniels and the man who played Bolotov (even though Bolotov was pointless in the movie) gave good, believable performances.  The rest ranged from not-so-good (Angelica Huston as the doctor, Tina Lifford as Winston) to bad (Paul Rodriguez as Arrango) to horrid (Clint Eastwood & Wanda de Jesus).

I was really hoping to enjoy this movie because Connelly's books are some of my favorites.  But this just made me angry.  Don't waste your time and energy on this movie.  Please read the book instead!  If you've watched the movie but never read the book, I urge you to read the book as it is fantastic!