First, let me say that I know very few actors who I like better than James Stewart.  I loved him in It's a Wonderful Life, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and Bend in the River.  So, I looked forward with much anticipation to Destry Rides Again, a film, that I was sure would be one of his best because of its high user rating on Imdb and Amazon.com.  That said, this is not one of his better films and was a major disappointment to me and my entire family.
The story is simple, something along the lines of Support Your Local Sheriff with James Garner.  It's a proven formula that has worked many times in westerns.  This time, however, the hero of the film doesn't believe in guns.  He wants to clean up the town entirely without any kind of violence.  People laugh at him, and he does nothing about it.  Where is his sense of pride?  Why doesn't he stand up for himself?
Despite showing promise early on, however, Destry does not really fulfill its obligations as a movie.  There's some decent action scenes, some genuinely funny scenes, and Stewart gives his typically versatile performance as does Marlene Dietrich, but still the movie somehow falls flat.
The whole time the movie was progressing I felt like it was building up to something.  I was waiting for James Stewart to do one of two things.  Either realize that violence would be necessary to take on the bad guys, or beat the bad guys through his own ingenuity without guns or violence.  He does neither.  Actually, James Stewart's Destry in this film does very little.  He never really outwits the bad guys, and in fact his refusal to wear guns, and his lack of intelligence cause much harm.  Innocent characters die because of him, and the ending of the film where he is once more walking the streets of the city without a gun rings rather hollow.
The film's ending left me thinking, "What?  That's it," and sadly that was it.  The film is roughly ninety minutes, but by the time you factor in two songs from Marlene Dietrich (both rather unremarkable) and a twenty minute intro where nothing happens but a guy getting swindled at cards, you have an hour of film.  That's my biggest problem with Destry.  It felt like someone started making a really good movie, then ran out of money halfway through, and tacked on a silly ending.  Maybe the ending was surprising and original back then, but now it feels so laughable and clich&eacute; that I have to smile.  And that's all I could do with Destry Rides again: smile as I returned it to Netflix with the knowledge that at least I hadn't bought this mediocre film.