We hate to admit it, but we love the action-comedy. "Bad Boys,"  "Die Hard," and "True Lies" can all be called guilty pleasures. Another genre that has come into fashion recently in the heist or caper flick, where a stylish yet motley crew of thieves follow their charismatic leader to bull off what is always "One Last Job". 
The charismatic leader of the group is Charlie Croker (Mark Walberg, in a performance that gives a new definition to the term `dry-read'). The rest of this crew are equally as predictable; there's the computer guy who can hack into anything, the demolitions guy, the womanizing wheelman, and the veteran thief and safecracker in it for "one last job" played by Donald Sutherland. Rounding out the crew is Steve Frezelli (Edward Norton) the only member of the crew that has no discernable talent, which makes him the prime suspect in any double cross.
The real story of this movie is the Ed Norton had to do it, because he had signed a multi-film deal with the studio, and the studio was threatening legal action. You can tell because he gives one of the most uninspired performances of his career. Mark Walberg is never believable for a minute as the charismatic leader of his crew. 
The jokes, which admittedly are funny in a corny way, are too rapid fire for the audience to take the action part seriously, but are not funny enough for this to be a fulfilling comedy. I kind of wish the filmmakers went completely overboard and made a self mocking action movie like "The Boondock Saints." But the film always tries to keep one foot in the land of credibility and it just doesn't work because I was never invested in this movie or the characters at all. I wouldn't have cared if at any time during the movie everybody dropped dead.
The movie feels like an excuse to get as many mini-coopers into a film as possible. The sound editors made these mini's sound like fire breathing tractor-trailers, not like the hamster wheel engines that Mini's actually are equipped with. That said, the stunt driving makes for the most engaging sequences in the movie.  And that's saying something. All in all I can't say that the movie is bad, it's just in no way good.