Having read some of these reviews I can honestly say that those of you who were not there should not Judge because nobody who was not there will ever know what we went thru over there and to those who would bad mouth Oliver stone who himself was a Vietnam Vet I would like to say, After Seeing "Apocalypse Now" "Full Metal Jacket" and all these other bogus movies about Vietnam.

Platoon,as far as I'm concerned was the way I saw Vietnam, It was the first film on Vietnam that portrayed the realization that we were not just fighting the NVA,(North Vietnamese Army) We were fighting each other.

I was there in August of 1969, we had came in at Cam Rang Bay,then they sent us down to Bien Hoa for a couple of weeks then I flew up to Northern Vietnam to Phu Bai.
I was with the 101st Airborne Division and I had just Missed Hamburger Hill.I did not want to go to Vietnam and fight a war that nobody really knew why we were there.I even went AWOL before I left fort Lewis Washington to go over there, I was A Counter Culture person from Southern Cal. And was Against the war.

I remember one night it was raining really hard, I mean it was coming down so hard you could not see two feet in front of you, Now I was in a supply company and these guys who had been out in the bush for like two weeks with no hot food,no dry socks to keep from getting Jungle Rot.I was standing in the mess line waiting to get some grub and the little Fat Red Neck Fist Sargent was standing there hassling these guys with all of this State side Stuff like get your hands and of your Pockets, Straighten out that Baseball Cap.
That night after chow a friend of mine that I went to high School with that I met over there, We were sitting around smoking a Joint all of a we sudden hear this...Boom,Boom,Boom and all these MP'S were running around searching everybody and everything,Someone Apparently didn't like being hassled by the First Sargent and they grenaded his hooch, lucky for him he wasn't in it.

In Platoon you see it, The Oakie's were in one corner listening to their country music, the Juicers were in another corner drinking their Alcoholic Juice and The Heads were Partying remembering what it was like back in the World. Oliver Stone Portrayed it perfect.

There was so much discrimination over there between all of us,We were fighting each other,There was this Black guy over there who was also from California and like me was from the LSD-Rock-Hippie Culture we used to hang out and get high together and it used to piss off the other black people.It was total confusion over there.

Nobody really knew why we were there,When Oliver Stone has Charlie Sheen say...We were grunts from Jerk Water USA, they were the bottom of the barrel, Nobodies,People that nobody cared about.
Not one Politician lost a son in Vietnam and that was one of the reasons that we never went back there to get the Pow's and Mia's was because the books were in the Red, The War didn't turn a Profit so there was no profit for them to go back there and get them.

The NVA were highly motivated and well trained, they knew how to fight, we were on there turf, they hid in trees and under ground.
I remember they would constantly tell you...Stay Alert,Stay Alive, Kill or be Killed. You learned to sleep with one eye open.
I remember there was this one guy who was an Oakie from the South, he was pissed off that he was in a supply company, he wanted to be out on the front lines killing some dinks. It was crazy. How many times I was on perimeter guard scared out of my mind.How many times I would listen to these 105's going off that were so loud we thought that they were incoming rounds scrambling around trying to find a sand bag to hide behind.
How many of us that were over there are still suffering from PTSD,How many of us cannot get help even today from the VA because they don't want to pay us for PTSD.
They Screw you up but then they don't want to fix you.

Jimi Hendrix was a Vietnam Vet he was also in the 101st, he was there for the Tet Offense, he lost four of his toes on his left foot and got a medical discharge.
So many of my Friends in 1967 whose draft cards were 1a came back from Vietnam so screwed up. It was a very sad time for those of us who were there.

Yeah,Platoon was the way I saw Vietnam. I am thankful that people today realize that War is hell and that this Planet will never evolve until we can learn to turn the other cheek, Until we can learn to forgive one another.

Albert Einstein once said..."The Creations of our Minds should be used as a blessing for mankind instead of a curse."

We are constantly inventing newer and better weapons and bombs to kill each other off.

God's temple is the Human form Divine and in Killing man you are Killing God.

"Thou Art a Man, God is no more, Thine own Humanity learn to adore."
  Wm Blake.