Hi all. I've read many of these reviews of the movie "The Inheritance" before deciding to speak my piece. First of all, The Inheritance is a late-1800s story of a poor Italian orphan, Edith Adelon, raised as the companion to the Hamilton family's daughter Amy. Over the years, she has gained their trust and affection. As the great horserace among the local gentry approaches, several visitors arrive to the area: Ida Glenshaw, a "good family, no property" lady, distant cousin of Mrs. Hamilton; Mr. James Percy, "tall, dark, and handsome" who is staying with the Hamiltons, and a Mr. Frederick Arlington, a guest in the area.  Mrs. Hamilton wishes to match her relative Ida to one of the young men, but the story twists as both men attach themselves to the quiet but frank and kind Edith.  She herself is charmed by one's attentions, but distance herself, realizing their stations are so far apart.

I read the book before watching the film, and was charmed by the quiet romance, if encased in a somewhat foreseeable plot and stereotype characters. Anyways, I write with one main point. Many comments have stated the flimsiness of the story- a perfect, gorgeous, and noble heroine, a gentleman of impeccable grace and dignity, with piercing eyes and dark hair that flops besides his eyes when he looks down at her, a jealous and proud man-chaser, and a vulgar, flirtatious jerk(I mentally searched for a more classical term). And these commentators have a somewhat valid point.

My lone response to this point is simple, not earth-crumbling or brilliant. Do you read the forwards or intorductions to novels? I sometimes do. And what I learned from the forward to The Inheritance was that Louisa May Alcott wrote this little story at age seventeen. That's right. Grade eleven or twelve today. How many kids that age do you know today who write something that has been republished for a hundred and fifty years, and made into a film?

So I'm content to remain reading and watching this little classic for years, to take it in all of its simple beauty, and to enjoy it for what it is- if not a masterpiece, at least the work of a master.