This is an incredibly boring and uninformative documentary. I find many of the findings in contemporary economics trivial but there are still the occasional interesting and insightful finding but this film seems to be a good representative of only the trivial or outright false findings. Here's an example of a trivial and boring claim from the film. The movie starts off with a claim made by one of the economist profiled, Steven Levitt, which purports to show that one should not sell one's house if waiting another few weeks will provide the opportunity to sell at a much higher price. It explains that the realty agent hired by the seller will have incentives to sell early while the seller should wait to sell for the higher price. Really? Do you need someone with a PhD to tell you that it's worth it if you'll wait a few more weeks to sell a house if it will be sold for thousands more than if you sell now? Economists seem to deliver many of these trivial findings in ways they think will make their jobs seem more valuable but it's all just common sense. It;s not surprising at all and certainly not worth a documentary. Many other findings are so abstracted from reality that they don't really apply to real life situations.

Here's another example from the film that shows how incredibly out of touch with common sense and reality Levitt is. He did a study once purporting to show that there is widespread corruption and cheating in sumo wresting. What evidence did he have for this? Well, he used the records of sumo matches from preliminary championship rounds alone to arrive at his conclusion. Levitt says that the records show that wrestlers with winning records when they have already qualified for later rounds and when they go up against those with losing records will lose more often when they go against wrestlers they have known before. He explains that this can only be accounted for by intentional match-rigging to favor the wrestler with the losing record.

Clearly, there are much more obvious (and common in sports in general) explanations for this phenomenon than intentional match-rigging. Obviously, if you already qualified for the next round, you don't need to put in all your effort (because you already qualified. Duh!) so full efforts will be superfluous and may even increase the risks for injury for yourself and your opponent. One would be wise to save one's energy for the next more important round (and presumably tougher opponent). It's common in all sports to save one's energy and not risk injury to expend the minimal effort possible if that will do the job in qualifying for the next round. Once that is done, there's no point to giving an ounce of effort more. And of course, if you are wrestling against someone you already know, you might not give as much effort to beat him and your motivation will have no connection to match-rigging or cheating. It may be just because you like him and want to see him advance to the next round too. That is not match-rigging nor cheating. These commonsense explanations are not even mentioned in the film and obviously, if you just look at the win/lose records, you will not be able to parse these more likely and obvious motives from the more insidious ones that Levitt claims to underlie the sumo world.

The problem with his analysis is indicative of the hubris of many social scientists and especially economists in that they think they can just look at surface data and glean insight into complex social phenomenon when they have no business speculating in such a manner. They are operating under extremely iffy assumptions and premises but you'd never get that impression from the confident way they present their own findings. By using numbers and jargon, they try to cover up those limitations of their work.

The film is filled with this kind of either trivial and boring "findings" to other findings based on outright silly speculation. Few of it backed up with much evidence. Like I said, there probably are some interesting findings in economics today that offer insight into society and human beings but the film does not report on a single one of these but merely tries to dress up the far less interesting findings or tries to make the very speculative ones seem more well-founded than they are. Levitt also comes off as completely robotic, without any hint of charisma compounding the film's boring narrative. If one really wants to learn economics, one should be better off reading a economics textbook and journals. That may even be more entertaining than watching this movie.