After reading and studying Cunningham's novel, my students and I were completely dissapointed by a text that does not have to do anything at all with the novel.  The curious thing is that Cunningham wrote the script for the film.  Not only it was low-budget, but incredibly choppy.  The text was used in a college course about friendship among males entitled "Men in Friendship" (a first-year seminar), and this movie was a real disaster.

To put it in simple words, the movie was like "Will and Grace (with Jonathan being Jack) go to the movies".

The absense of Erich, a crucial character in the novel, and the one who is dying of AIDS (Jonathan does not have the disease in the novel), was an enormous mistake.  The leifmotiv of the lake, where Bobby and Jonathan solidified their brotherhood (by the way, the only mutual [...] scene in the novel is the one inside the car), is also non-existent.  In the novel, the three characters, Bobby, Jonathan and Erich, go to the icy lake to ritualize their brotherhood and that's the end of the novel, not the ceremony with Jonathan's father ashes.

This is a text about friendship and there were never French kisses between Jonathan and Bobby.  The movie wants Bobby's character to come across as a bisexual character.  In the novel, his sexual orientation is not an issue, but his love for both Jonathan and Clare.  At the end, it's all about Bobby and Jonathan, and Bobby finally finding the brother he lost when he was a child, Carlton.  The two female characters, Clare and Alice, vanished from the text, making it a male narrative.

Sissy Spaceck as Alice is awful.  She does not even have a southern accent like in the novel and the movie tries to hint that there is some kind of sexual tension between her and Bobby.

The father was a stucky-built and rather handsome man, not a tall and thin guy like in the movie.  And Jonathan was not a dorky-looking child either.

At any rate, my students had a wonderful time laughing their heads off while watching a very dissapointing film based on a novel they really enjoyed.

The acting is mediocre (Clare and Jonathan being the worst), and Collin Ferrel does not show any talent at all in this movie.  He is just a cute guy, nothing else; just like Errol Flyn was handsome, but could not act for the life of him.  I don't understand why an actress of such caliber as Sissy Spaceck, worked in this movie.  Did she need the money?

After seeing "The Hours", an excellent adaptation of another of Cunningham's literary masterpieces, "A Home at the End of the World" was a terrible cinematic faux-pas.