The movie "Brother Bear" is an animated story that centers on the ways and beliefs of a cold climate, northern region, Inuit tribe of Eskimos. Three brothers, the oldest Sitka (D. B. Sweeney), the middle, Denahi (Jason Raize) and the youngest, Kenai (Joaquin Phoenix), and a shaman woman, Tanana (Joan Copeland) are its main characters. The story focuses on young Kenai and his coming-of-age, initiation ceremony. Kenai has a lot to learn before he can complete his initiation. After learning that his animal totem is the bear, Kenai returns to retrieve his fish and finds only bear tracks. He grows angry and starts to hunt the bear, following the tracks, which lead him to where the "lights touch the earth." Kenai's journey of receiving his animal totem with love will be a hard thing to do as a human, so the "Spirits" magically change him into a bear, which Kenai had just hunted down and killed for no other reason than that Kenai was mad that the bear had stolen the fish he caught earlier that day. When Denahi arrives, he discovers only Kenai's clothes and a disoriented bear, who Denahi immediately tries to kill.

Kenai, as a bear, must journey to where the "lights touch the earth." He realizes quickly that as a bear, he does not know how to get there. Lucky for him, he gets some help from two moose, Rutt (Rick Moranis) and Tuke (Dave Thomas), and a talkative bear cub named, Koda (Jeremy Suarez). If you are a fan of the movie, "Strange Brew" you will recognize the antics of the two moose. Kenai has a bad attitude toward the journey, since he is really a human and finds it terribly inconvenient to be a bear. He reluctantly accepts Koda's help. At first he does all he can to avoid Koda, who talks non-stop about things Kenai does not care about, until Koda tells him had can take him to where the lights touch the earth. Together, Kenai and Koda, make their way to the salmon run, which is right next to where the lights touch the earth, according to Koda. And the whole time they are being chased by Denahi who believes that Kenai is the bear that killed his brother, Kenai. Along the way, Kenai learns much of the animal kingdom, and how much he does not know about the animal kingdom. At the salmon run Koda introduces Kenai to several other bears. As evening settles, they begin telling stories. Kenai learns the truth of why Koda is on his own and must confess that he is the reason Koda has no mother. In his attempt to escape the pain he has caused, Kenai runs through the woods and is discovered once again by Denahi. The pursuit ends where the "lights touch the earth" and there Kenai has a decision to make.
The movie "Brother Bear" shows some indigenous sacred ways of the Inuits including initiation, Animism/Shamanism, Earth-focused, Ancestism, and the mysteries of animal life.