I'll edit this review with more thoughts in the future, but having just seen the documentary I wanted to make some observations. Transcendant Man seems lost and poorly organized. Its seems to flutter back and forth between being an argument for the singularity, a documentary about the singularity, and a documentary about Kurzweil himself. For the first third or so Ray is treated rather hagiographically. Thankfully that peters out, but more criticism of Ray and his ideas would have spiced things up and kept things fair. Disturbingly, some criticism of Ray seems to have been edited out dishonestly. There was a brief clip in the trailer where a man says something to the effect that Ray is a charlatan selling techno-optimism because doing so makes him a lot of money. Then he says "That's wrong." In Transcendant Man, the same guy appears, briefly talks about Ray setting himself up as a kind of prophet with the conversation obviously leading up to the accusation from the trailer. Then suddenly there's a very conspicuous jump to the guy saying "That's wrong." It seems the editor wanted to blunt that criticism of Ray by omitting the accusation of being in it for the money. Pretty much all of the singularitarians in the documentary come off as having a few screws loose. Ben Goertzel came a across as an eccentric hippy. In one scene he's wearing a cowboy hat with a cowspot pattern. His speech slurred. I could very well believe he was stoned during filming. Hugo de Garis came off as being somewhat obnoxious. Even Ray didn't seem as articulate as he typically does in his talks.

As an immortalist I want to live as close to forever as practical, and I hope science devises the means for me to achieve this. Whether its anti-aging research or mind uploading, whatever helps me live longer. I can say that my interest and optimism for these prospects is not motivated by fear of death, but just a desire to experience as much of the future as possible. I thought the same would naturally be true of Ray and have generally felt dismissively towards critics arguing that singularitarianism is rooted in the fear of death. After watching Transcendant Man I'm less inclined to be dismissive of the critics and more inclined to be suspicious of Ray. I can only speak of impressions, but he really does seem to have issues about death, especially that of his father. He seems really tore up about his father's death even beyond the difficult grief of having lost a close loved one.

Oh and some of the visual effects were obnoxious. Like when Ray would describe the singularity and white text on a dark background would repeat what he said, and the text would rotate and jumble up. That was pretty awful.