I guess this movie is meant to be arch hip knowing satire.  I give it two stars because I mildly appreciated how it grinds the cruelty and vapidity of American popular culture and political life in our faces.  It makes  very succinct comment on that, and the inescapable conclusion - that we have become an ignorant, cruel, shallow, greed ridden people - is worthwhile.

The problem is that the satire is too rudimentary: the movie subjects us to montage of thinly veiled clones of American Idol, the Kardashians, Bill O'Reilly, so on, all unexaggerated, all just as vulgar and odious as their real life inspirations.  It's effective in eliciting proper revulsion.  The two main protagonists' reaction though, is to go on a graphic killing spree, where they become judge and executioner of all frauds and cretins.  All while blathering on and on about how repulsive everyone else is.

And that, a part from the graphic violence (example: first scene of movie is a fantasy sequence in which the main character takes a crying infant, tosses him up and blows him away with a 12 gauge drenching his mother in blood - the baby cries and keeps the guy awake, and his parents are ignorant hicks, so they deserve what they get, see) is the problem. The two main characters who go on the killing spree are just as insufferable as everyone they hate and kill.

They just can't shut up about how much they hate everyone, and how superior they are.  I guess that is supposed to be part of the "satire" - everyone's an irredeemable wretch, including our despicable antiheroes - there are only degrees of contemptability, no virtue.  Punk rockers and goths are posers, Diablo Cody is a poser, NASCAR and country music are idiotic, reality tv is idiotic, so on so on so on and on and on.. I mean, yeah.  I really dislike hipsters and rednecks, too.  They're frequently annoying.  That's why I tend to avoid them.  But I don't hate them.  I prefer just not to think about them at all, you know?

Like way too much energy, too warping to my own inner life to be a hater, there, dude.

I watched half of the movie, and finally just got too bored and annoyed by the unremitting pathetic wretchedness.

I shut it off in the middle of an interminable soliloquy (one of many) by the girl character where she goes on and on about how everything s*cks except for - oddly enough - Alice Cooper.  He, somehow, is an exception.  Bon Jovi and Poison are all imitative losers, punk is for hipster posers, but Alice, he is the real deal, see.. An authentic artist, apparently because he is so self aware,  deliberately androgynous, knowingly kitsch and camp.  Hipsters are frauds, but the hypocrites in this movie like Alice because he's in in the joke or something.. The actress playing the role recites her screeds like she's reading them off of cue cards.  It's like taking a dental drill in the eardrum.

Uh, no.  Alice Cooper is not better than Poison.  Sorry.  It's all sludge.  Anyone who thinks they are hipper than Bon Jovi fans because they prefer Alice Cooper is an idiot.

They were apparently on a mission to kill the movie's Bill O'Reilly stand in.  Bill is probably my least favorite American after Glenn Beck and Rushbo, so seeing that character offed might have been briefly amusing.  The problem is that the rest of this movie is just as awful as watching Bill O'Reilly himself.  Imagine O'Reilly's show, but with him shooting his guests every so often.  Same thing, this: idiotic vulgarity with intermittent graphic violence. The idea of O'Reilly shooting his guests is (to me) admittedly somehow perversely funny.  Watching him actually do it, not so much..

Another thing is that the characters go on and on about homosexuality, and how repressed and retrograde people who prefer chastity and traditional mores are.  A 50 year old man and a 17 year old girl on a serial killing spree, treating each other with all due respect, but both going on and on about how the truly hip and decent (whatever that word may mean in this movie's universe) are for sodomy.

The implicit fact that if they actually got jiggy with each other would ruin this film for all but the truly utterly depraved, is really true unintended ironic satire.  He has to remain avuncular, she virginal. Otherwise, it would just be too icky, dude.  Actually, they may have gone there before the end, after I dropped off..  I don't know.

We're in a pop-rocks Nietzschean world, where the likes of Ayn Rand is held to be a philosopher, Rue Paul an entertainer, George Bush a statesman, and Larry Flynt an artist.  Hah. Satire and poetry are dead.

Anyway, that, to me, sums this rancid culture up.  And this film.  Bullocks, all of it.  This is depraved and boring.  Not funny, not clever, certainly not good satire.  I'm already cynical and judgmental enough without exposing myself to crap like this.

Watch only if you think Alice Cooper is a genius.