Ahhh, the sequel. And who was it that said "House of a 1000 Corpses" needed a sequel anyway. Rob Zombie and company did and that's all it took for the next chapter of the Firefly family to hit the screen.

"Rejects" is a much bigger film cinematically and commercially than "Corpses", which suggests a larger budget, but it is also a much smaller film story wise. "Rejects" focuses strictly on the plight of Otis (Bill Moseley), Baby (Sheri Moon Zombie), and Captain Spaulding (Sid Haig) as they flee Sheriff Wydell (William Forsythe) bent on avenging his brother's murder. Along the way they spread murder and mayhem and bad clown jokes to all who get in their way.

Missing, however, was the complexity of "Corpses" with Spaulding's History of Serial Killers amusement ride, the legend of Dr. Satan, bizarre rituals and endless underground tunnels filled with horrors beyond imagination (very Chainsaw Massacre 2 - like). The Fireflys were safe, secure and seemingly invincible in this fortress of terror even when the local police arrived to investigate a missing person.

"Rejects" removes the characters from this nightmarish fairy tale into the light of day and makes them vulnerable and human. It takes them from untouchable evil denizens of their domain to natural born killers on the run. This seems to be a result of Zombie seeking a broader audience and more commercial success than he did with "Corpses."

But by doing this, does he risk losing the cult following he gained in the first film?  I say yes.

 "Corpses" takes us to a place we hope doesn't exist. It is a land where monsters disguised as hillbillies kidnap cheerleading squads and wayward teenagers for their own sadistic pleasure. (Not there is anything wrong with sadistic pleasure) Where evil doctors perform insane surgeries on unwilling patients and zombie-like creatures roam the underworld.

"Rejects" returns us to world we know exists. A small group of people go on a killing spree in Nowhere Ville, USA and are hunted by police. Old news Rob and it doesn't really frighten the modern horror audience, because they are numb by overexposure. In today's world a couple of homicidal monkeys with guns don't sell newspapers.

What it does do is make the horror real because we know these people do exist in our society and one could be in the theatre sitting behind you...right now. This is the place, I believe, Zombie is trying to go with "Rejects" but I think he missed the mark. Not necessarily his fault, but rather the numbing of society in general. As a result, his characters lost their mystique and zealousness for true carnage between the two films and they just became evil rats fleeing the flood of justice.

That being said, the music and cinematic creativity was over the top again in this movie. Zombie's timely placement of music throughout the movie and the final editing of the film displayed his obvious talent for making movies. Casting Sid Haig as the evil clown Captain Spaulding was genius and allowing his wife Sherri to display her talents, and cut-off shorts, once again on screen kept my interest throughout the movie.

Bottom line, people are not afraid of the light, they are afraid of what's waiting for them in the darkness. Mr. Zombie needs to bring us the darkness...and more naked cheerleaders being tortured, but what movie couldn't use a few more of those