Starring Jennifer Aniston and Aaron Eckhart in a romantic love drama with a twist this movie is set on a bizarre premise.  Burke Ryan (Aaron Eckhart) is a widower who happened to be in the car the night his wife died in a tragic crash.  He took his feelings, wrote a book and turned it into a themed talk show on the circuit of lost souls.  Who in the hell visits these talk shows anyway.  The oddity, or I should say one of the oddities in this movie is he doesn't even follow his own set of rules on how to embrace life once you have been faced with the death of a loved one.  He can't even ride in an elevator.

I should state at this point for the record that I like this movie a lot.  It got terrible reviews and my guess is that people in the world today like all of their romantic comedies tied up in a neat little bow.  If anything veers from the cookie cutter template that is implanted in everyone's generic brain we label it bad and move on.  This movie in my opinion deserves better than that.  It takes a shot at real life problems and the psychological quirks that somebody might develop when the love of his life is prematurely taken.

Burke Ryan makes his way through life helping people deal with death.  He holds workshops on how one might take the next step after the loss of an 8 year old son, how do you move forward after your husband dies, how do you face the next day after your mother passes away.  One elderly lade even made oatmeal cookies out of her husband's ashes because he loved them so much.  She kept the cookies in an earn and brought them to the seminar.  I might have lost my lunch if Burke would have taken a bight but lucky for us he passed.  In the midst of all this death he finds himself through a quirky flower shop girl (Jennifer Anniston) who has her own issues but maintains her positive outlook by writing obscure words behind paintings in hotels.

Getting a little scared at this point.  Again, if you are looking for a romantic comedy that follows Meg Ryan or Sandra Bullock down a preordained path this is not for you.  If you want to watch a movie about sadness, death and how love and hope can evolve this is worth a shot.  I am not saying that the storyline and acting was top notch.  It isn't the best movie that I have seen but I have seen far worse movies that have gotten far better reviews and "Love Happens" deserves its spot in the interesting movie section.  I liked it but then again I have a demented pessimistic outlook on life.  My girlfriend says if it weren't for her there might not be any positive energy in the house.  haha

Sometimes I feel like a nut and sometimes death is a catalyst for life if we open a window and let at least the smallest ray of light inside.  Who knows, you might even be able to make a batch of cookies out of the damn thing.