Date Night earns three stars for good comedy-film-making; male-female lead-actor chemistry of the classic 50's/60's comedies; fun, pleasantly exaggerated situations and characters; clever screen writing; and non-stop pacing that packs the story into a relatively short time period.

The premise of Date Night unfolds gradually: after the director introduces us the characters and their current, every-day challenges in life and marriage, we are draw into the real story: an innocent couple's attempting to have a simple and elegant dinner in the city, altered by the chain of goofy and dangerous events the transpire when things go wrong.

Lead actors Tina Fey and Steve Carrell show excellent chemistry together: the pacing and tone of their voices and lines; their physical and facial movements while speaking and while reacting to the other's lines.  This is just some of what creates good chemistry, and the Fey/Carrell chemistry is the sort we hope will be paired in later films.  They also effortlessly create fun and comic characters that we easily like and root for this entire film.

Cudos also to the screenwriter for a clever story and script: one which should appeal to a wide variety of movie-lovers.  I am often enthused about films that place the characters in situations where the primary action takes place in one day or one night, such as the plot of Date Night. In such movies, we are watching the plot unfold, the attempts at resolution and the final payoff, closer to real time than the average movie plot which usually spans larger time periods.  Date Night's compacted time and pace more readily draw us into the story. The non-stop pace of Date Night's events, some being comic and others featuring crime and intrigue, draws us quicker and more deeply into those events, bonds us more with the characters and intensifies our sharing of the stress and harried attempts to solve their problem.

The movie is best enjoyed by the viewer freely accepting exaggerated character parts and portrayals, such as that of the gangster characters and an international-spy-type so smoothly portrayed by Mark Whalberg: directors are free to adopt stage-play-like methods, characters and story-telling to entertain and emphasize for comedy when done in the right dose, as the director here has done.

The crisp, clear colors, detailed interior sets and sharp photography give the movie the invigorating pulse and palette of a night out on the town in Manhattan.  I give a solid recommendation to the well-acted and cleverly written and directed "Date Night."