Ok, so keeping the fact that the songs in this movie kick butt, which standalone take only about 30-60 minutes to listen too, the movie (other than the not so surprise, "surprise ending) is an absolute dud.

First of all, the movie comes with an in your face, this is what we think the facts should be about the history of the disputed area of Jammu and Kashmir and don't really care what the truth might be. As offensive as that might be to people whose lives have actually been affected by the stubbornness of india over the dispute, we will let it go and move on.

Secondly, it seems that the writers, director, producer all lack the balls to actually say that this is the matter of Kashmir. Until the mention of "Cargill" comes you can't be sure where this is happening in india. I mean, let's face it... with 26 states and 21 insurgencies the greatest "democracy" in the world can't really boast a country with peace and harmony and hence it really becomes a wild guess game for some time in the movie to figure out who actually are the "Terrorists/Freedom Fighters". Even in the movie at points this paranoia of the people shows where the officer of intelligence asks "Who do you work for" and then names 4 insurgencies with fluency ;).

Third, and kinda tying into the first, the fact of the matter is that up till ~1960 the government of india (Including Nehru) claim that Kashmir is a disputed area and a referendum in accordance with the UN resolution should be held. The Movie decides to forget this fact in the beginning by shahrukh saying "They are my countryman, they are just a little mad". My dear all, truth of the matter is that Kashmir is no more a part of india than Bangladesh is a part of Pakistan. So the Kashmiris are not indian and they are not "Just Mad". They are beyond pissed and want their right to choose delivered.

Lastly, there seems to be confusion throughout the movie about the religion of the girl. She does some pooja paat like movements in the mundir like place, but also is on her way to becoming a shaheed. Now one true indication of a true Muslim, he/she will never bow to anyone but God Almighty.

Of course, this review would be incomplete if I don't mention shahrukhs acting which in its sameness from one movie to another is as unique as Motorola razor these days. Not to mention the blatant disregard by the director in establishing any character at all. One minute the girl is covering all her body, the next she is showing her belly. In the beginning shahrukh is getting his butt beet by the same guys who he suddenly and with some excellent moves beets up at the end.

All in all I must say that the waste of time that I felt after watching this movie was so great that I promised myself that if I can save anyone else from such a severe feeling of loss, I will attempt it. So here it is, I hope it helps y'all.