In "Lost Boys: The Thirst", Corey Feldman returns as Edgar Frog. He is hired by a Stephanie Meyer-esque bookwriter, who also shares a similar, unrealistic take on vampires, to find her brother, who was kidnapped by bloodsuckers. Joing him on this perilous mission are a comic book friend, the author herself, and an idiotic reality TV host. "The Thirst" feels more like a true sequel to the original film than "The Tribe", but that doesn't stop it from being, for the most part, a pretty crappy movie. On the upside, Corey Feldman's Edgar Frog is the star of this one, rather than the integral but small role he had in "The Tribe". Additionally, Jamison Newlander also returns as brother Alan Frog, but sadly in a more minor role. Also, this entry has a more big-budget feel than the last movie, giving it a comfortable sense of professionalism. Most of the small-scale action scenes are pretty entertaining as well, and the iconic song "Cry Little Sister" returns as well. Sadly, most everything else is way down hill. The vampires are overacting hipsters who are far from threatening. The heavy-duty violence and gore featured in "The Tribe" is now gone in favor of some squirting blood here and there. There are also disguised but obvious, and negative, references to the "Twilight" series. Yes all of us true horror fans feel the same way about that, but adding such references to this movie feels out of place. Another thing; ALL THE VAMPIRES DIE THE SAME! This really drove me nuts, as it was well-established in the first two films that vamps all die in elaborate, unique ways; here they all lamely burst into ash "Blade"-style. Lastly, what drove me insane about this was the writing and dialogue. My God, the dialogue and one-liners in this movie are just painful to hear, from The Frog Brothers' quirky lines to vampiric monologues, most of what I heard hurt me a quite a bit. And don't even get me started on the asinine, out-of-place ending. I lightly reccomend this one; prepare to wade through a sea of crap to take a bite out of anything good.