The main goals of these workouts seem to be improving balance and toning leg muscles with high reps, especially the underworked ones, but there is also an intense ab routine. This makes for an original set of workouts with a lot of moves that I'd never seen before.

However, there are several issues: the most glaring one is that Marisa's and Key's personalities don't blend well. Marisa tries to be upbeat and friendly ("I only have ten minutes to get to my party, Key"), but it seems awkward because Key usually ignores this and is always business-like. He also keeps trying to keep the pace and intensity up, while Marisa will occasionally stop for a small stretch. I don't mind either of these approaches, but they don't work well together. Fortunately, Marisa leads the short warm-up and cool-down by herself - but you should know that they are the same for all the workouts and her cueing needs some work. Some of the exercises and a lot of the pointers ("I try to focus on one spot to help with my balance") are repeated, but this doesn't bother me too much. The abs are really only worked once, but yikes! It's 100 crunches with raised legs - too intense for me, not to mention boring. Also they don't "flow seemlessly" as the intro implies; the transitions aren't awkward, but gaiam shouldn't be marketing something just because it's in vogue.

The big problems of the routines themselves are the "speed and agility" drills and the focus on the muscles right above the knee. There are at least 5 moves (all with rather high reps) devoted to this area. I understand that they are underworked muscles that most workouts ignore, but this is excessive. The cardio segments are way too short to be considered intervals, I think they are used to get the heart rate back up after using such small muscles groups. They also require a lot of space and sometimes you have to go backwards which can be dangerous in a small or messy room. I usually just do jumping jacks or jog in place, instead.

Despite all my complaints, I do like this workout because although the muscles are worked intensely, the atmosphere is not intense at all, so I come out of it feeling very relaxed.