First of all, I can handle movies that show negative side to a religious spirit, and the need of being more human and free in a case you are not. The idea of this movie kinda starts off like this, but to be quite honest, it bored me terrebly for few reasons. The young man has a mother who is always a bit too worried for him. She seems not to like her husband very much who is the pastor in their church. Okay, I can handle that, but I'm not sure about watching the movie for an hour and still waiting for it to take off. So the boy meets this old actrees lady who curses a lot, talks loud in public, she takes him far away from home and doesn't let him contact his family to let them know he's okay. Is that the kind of lesson she was teaching him? I don't care how annoying the mother might be, letting parents know where their children are is not just a Christian thing, at least I would assume it's not... Anyway, after they end up in some hotel the boy sleeps with some girl and so the story goes on to him trying out alchohol and dance clubs... Honestly, I don't mind none of that, but you gotta be kidding me if that's the kind of lessons the lady was trying to teach him. The movie goes on with his mother being hit by a car as if this whole time the audience just waited for that to happen. No, not really, even though the mother was kind of annoying, she seemed to me like yet another human being who is not perfect... If his mother is christian, that doesn't mean she cannot have her own mistakes or worry too much for her kid, or have problems with her husband. I wasn't sure what the religion had to do with any of the things that the movie put this boy through... Taste of sin? I don't think now days it's that hard to taste sin... To make an extremely boring movie about it with passion of bashing christian families seems like a thing for loosers who don't have a life. Even though I come from a christian family, and have a lot of friends who are christians, a behavior characterized by the boy's parents is strange news to me personally. A rather naive and empty idea. There are hundreds of happy families and not so happy regardless of which religion or phelosophy. Why do people praise this movie so much? Not sure, but watch it I guess for yourself to have your own opinnion. Peace.