I really like this film, despite my initial reservations. Brosnan looked young enough for the part. I hate to say this, but he's probably too old now for Bond. Sorry Pierce. When I first saw the film, I was especially impressed with the ending. It's terrific. It has a confrontation scene between 006 and 007 that is as exciting as it gets. It even equals the Sean Connery - Robert Shaw fight on the Orient Express in From Russia With Love. Sure you can see fight scenes in Jean Claude Van Damme movies but Martin Campbell knows about dramatic tension and how to create a build up. He is also an excellent action director. I'm so glad he has been chosen to direct the next Bond film. The film works because the acting is good. Sean Bean, apparently a contender for the 007 role himself, is very convincing as 006, 'Mad little Alex'. That's why I think the next Bond actor has to be a good actor. George Lazenby appeared in an action packed Bond movie, but he didn't really engage the viewer. I think Daniel Craig should be the next Bond. He would be first rate. I saw him in 'Our Friends From the North' and he can really act. I haven't seen 'Layer Cake', Craig's latest film but the reviews have been glowing. In Goldeneye, Brosnan has the harder acting job as his character has to be always doing the right thing, whereas Bean has a roving profile in terms of good to bad. The film has classic Bond ingredients: a personalized enemy; a tip of the hat to science fiction; exotic but deadly females; kinetic action scenes that you only seem to find in Bond movies and the usual ingredients of supporting people and settings e.g Dame Judi Dench as the head of MI6. The reservations were that the formula was followed i.e. a little too much humor, an outlandish but entertaining chase scene and the obligatory love interest,although everybody was incredibly good looking. I understand the next Bond film will be routed more in reality, with a younger Bond. That sounds good to me. I remember coming out of the cinema when I was much younger, having seen a Bond movie and feeling like I was walking on air. I haven't analysed Goldeneye in detail but given impressions of it and my thoughts about the next Bond. However, Goldeneye was Brosnan's best outing as 007 and I think Daniel Craig should be the next Bond.