Truth be told, I had a really, really bad experience with this set.  So much so, that I actually decided to have Amazon give me money back for it.  I'll get back to that in a bit, but let's cover the positive stuff first:

This is a gorgeous looking set - The outer cardboard shell is sturdy, and the book that slides into it is nothing short of breathtaking.  Inside the book is a massive amount of information and tons of great pics from the series, and as the book folds out there's a timeline that details everything that happens throughout the saga.

Obviously, this boxed set houses all five original Planet of the Apes feature films. Are all the films perfect?  No, they're not.  The original is a masterpiece.  The second was severely misguided and really dismantled the vision of what a planet of apes would be like... but its bleak tone and its dark ending actually leaves me with a lot of respect for it.  The third film was a wonderful return to form, whereas the fourth continued down a path of dark paralelling to our own world.  The fifth film was a nice effort on paper, but its cheap execution was rather poor.  That being said, although there's some issues throughout the series, the positives FAR outweight the negatives.

So, what's the issue with this set then?  The packaging.  The discs are in the book, but on rubber hubs and no protective backing.  I went through TWO of these sets... and each had scratched discs.  Furthermore, the rubber hubs made it very difficult to try and put the discs back in place.  If only a little extra money was spent in developing these sets with plastic hubs instead, this would have been the set for me.

So, I got my money back, and went to FoxConnect.com and bought their exclusive 'while supplies last' Planet of the Apes - Evolution Collecton on Blu-ray... and that set DOES house all the films in plastic hubs with protective backing.  Also, that set ALSO includes Tim Burton's remake, as well as the Rise of the Planet of the Apes reboot film.

In conclusion, this 40th Anniversary Collection is great as long as you get discs that haven't been ruined by the packaging... but for anyone who is really concerned about gimmicky packaging such as this, you may want to hold out for something more sturdy such as I did.