The Emperor's New Groove was definitely one of the more original and satisfyingly funny Disney films, straying away from the typical outcast-becomes-hero storyline that has been plaguing the company's  storytelling for years. To add insult to injury, they have been releasing sequels to all their classics. So upon hearing that they were adding a second 'New Groove' movie, it was both a skeptical and an exciting anticipation. Does Kronk's New Groove live up to its predecessor? Not quite. But much like The Three Musketeers before it, it is still one of the better straight-to-home features that Disney has released, and that alone makes it worth a look.

In this sequel we follow Izma's former henchman, Kronk, and his background and hardships following the events of the first film. Most of the characters make a comeback here, and we are even introduced to a new one, Ms. Birdwell. Her persona is pretty questionable (why'd they give her an English accent?), and the romance between her and Kronk may turn people off, but luckily it's kept to a minimum. The movie retains a very similar visual flair to the first film, so those who enjoyed Emperor should have no difficulty adjusting to this one. The soundtrack has its own share of funky tunes to groove to, while all of the other original characters' voices make a short, but sweet, return.

Kronk's New Groove still lacks the quick wit humor found in its predecessor, which will disappoint those looking for the same kind of laughs. And while it borrows a lot of the same comedic slapstick cues used in the first film, they aren't as effectively funny the second time around. It tries hard to imitate Emperor, but everything comes off recycled and tired. However, the movie makes up for it in its richer well-made storyline, at least enough to keep you interested all the way through. It also goes as far to teach some moral values, even more so than the previous film. As a sequel, this is a three-star movie. But standing on its own, it does deserve four stars. Anyone who enjoyed The Emperor's New Groove should still look into it, and hope that Disney decides to produce more original content.