Not only it is not, this movie has aged badly over the years. And I don't mean just its special effects, which were the best at the time but now look understandably dated. I mean the picture itself; the attitude it reflects.

Soldiers fall nicely in bloodless deaths. Grenades only kill when needed, enemies fire only when you keep your head down, dirt only stains your cheeks, and wounds mean only scratches and cuts, not gory carnage. There is no pain or terror; no one cries in agony, grief or desperation.

No one kills civilians, not even nazis, not even by accident. There's your standard scared kid, or the classic Brooklyn wiseguy among the grunts to be sure, but every officer is a "Father-knows-best" square-jawed tough hombre. Germans always yell on the phone, whether in anger or affection, and all Frenchmen belong to the Resistance; their girls flirting like sluts. No kidding. And talk about the All-Star cast!:

Robert Mitchum storms the beaches of Normandy as the quarterback of a football team. John Wayne delivers his tiresome lines on automatic cowboy. Richard Beymer has to verbalize everything he sees, feels or thinks, just to spare you the effort of figuring it all by yourself. Sean Connery, Roddy McDowell, Red Buttons, Rod Steiger and Richard Burton compete each other for the Ham-Of-The-Year Award in the brief cameos they're given. Even thespians you don't see overdo it: that "hold until relieved" order, for instance, keeps changing its intonation everytime time it's echoed in the paratrooper's head (the actor then makes a face accordingly). And every once in a while there's the Deep Thought, mused over by someone with eyes wide open in Revelation.

In short, it is a big movie, but a bad one. Badly done, badly played and badly written. Cornelius Ryan may have been a good journalist but he certainly wasn't a good screenwriter. His script tells you more about old Hollywood than what World War II was like.

Time has nothing to do with the movie's dated look. "Is Paris Burning?" -in many respects a clone of "The Longest Day"- was filmed shortly after. So was "Patton" a few years later. The former has aged horribly as well, if not more; the latter remains present. Both were written by the same fellow, young Francis Ford Coppola. His next movie would be "The Godfather". What does that tell you?

ANSWER: Practise makes perfect. Passion helps. Budget and Big Stars, only if you have the first two.