In Time is a futuristic movie where time has literally become the currency for society.
The people in the society have to find ways to earn their time in order to subsist or else they die
once they "run out of time" on their imprinted watches once they turn twenty - five. Since the
time also functions as currency, the people have to use that time to buy food, money and other
necessities all the while worrying about how much time they have until they cease to exist. In
Time does a pretty good job representing dystopian ideals but is a bit idealized as a movie.

 The movie reflects dystopian ideals by having the society split into two: the ghettos
where the bottom of the society preside and the luxurious city - like area where the rich preside.
The people from the ghettos struggle to earn enough time to subsist but the people from the
luxurious city - like area live their days without a worry about time. The dystopian society
functions in a similar way where there is the bottom of the society(majority of the population)
whom struggle to maintain a living and the top(minority of the population) who have more than
they even need to live. The society of In Time maintains a control on the bottom class of the
society by never allowing them to have the ability to get out of their own time zone and even if
they were able to become a little richer, the prices of goods would just raise in order to maintain
the large gap between the two classes, which reflects dystopian ideals.

 The movie also reflects dystopian ideals by having the currency actually become time.
Because currency represents time, the people from the ghettos have to constantly struggle in
order to live another day all the while having to pay for food and other necessities that also
contribute to survival. The society has exerted a kind of control on the people in this society by
having them constantly worrying about their own time that they can't worry about anyone else's,
save the people they are really close to such as family members and close friends. Throughout
the movie we see the occasional dead bodies in the ghettos that the people cannot feel sorry for
as the people are constantly worrying about their own time and how they are going to get
through the day. The dystopian society also maintains a control on the people by having them
become less sympathetic to those around them as the people have to worry about how they are
going to get through the days as well because time is essentially money - even if time isn't
currency in the dystopian society, money is needed in order for that time to really be worth
having.

 However, the movie is also a bit idealized. It seemed so easy for the two main characters
Will and Sylvia to rob the time banks so easily and distribute it among the people of the ghettos.
Usually in the dystopian fiction "resistance is futile" - the ones who try to go against the
dystopian society will usually be caught and punished. In all honestly I was expecting an ending
where the two protagonists would be caught eventually and the society would have been what it
always was. The ending was a bit idealized where the people in the ghettos were actually able to
escape their own time zones and the two protagonists were able to actually make a change in the
system of the society.

 All in all, In Time is a movie that reflects the dystopian ideals. The film's society in this
is split into two: the few very rich and many very poor, which is how the dystopian society is
usually structured and also shows how the people in the ghettos have become less sympathetic to
those who also suffer the same fate as them. However, the film is also a bit idealized with how
easy it was for the characters to rob the time banks without having to suffer in the end. In Time
would have been a very good dystopian film if not for its idealizations.