Honestly, even though I LOVED this movie as a 10-year-old kid -- it scared me to death, no joke!  So parents, don't underestimate this movie's powers to give your kids nightmares.  (Seriously, a trianglar crack in a mirror containing a blindfolded girl reaching out to you and mouthing "HELP ME!" is FREAKY, no matter what age you are.)

However, this is a great film for slightly more mature kids, as it really fires the imagination and will stick with them for years.  I will always love this movie, despite its early 1980's appearance, outdated special effects, and some of the more annoying moments of Johnson's (Jan's) whiny voice and overacting.  I still love it because the premise of the story is so fascinating, and there are moments and aspects of it that I STILL FIND SCARY!

For example (I won't give away too much, don't worry):

I love the eerie lullaby that Jan and Ellie hear in the woods, it's so whimsical and innocent-sounding that its juxtaposition with the frightening elements of the story is utterly creepy.  I love the way it gets played at the very end, it makes the movie end on a note of unease, despite the resolution -- and I really like that sense of the unsettled and unresolved at the end of this creeeepy story.  I don't want to see any other alternative ending!

I LOVE BETTE DAVIS in this role, she is such a leading lady, and her character is so haunting.  She perfectly conveys the loss and loneliness that an old widow would feel if her beloved daughter had mysteriously disappeared many years ago.  The part where she looks at the forest and says "They're going to stay...is that what you wanted?" gives me chills just thinking about it -- because it's at that point that you realize she KNOWS there is something out there in the woods, and she too is confused as to who or what it is, and perhaps even thinks it IS her daughter out there in spirit form.  (Jibblies!)

Jan looking in the large dresser mirror -- unable to see herself in it.  I always imagine myself in her shoes at that moment, and I think I would run screaming at what happens next, or at least think I was going absolutely crazy.  I love that moment.

Ellie writing backwards on the bathroom mirror in the dark, talking to herself.  Yeeeee.....

That strange, glowing blue triangle that appears at the foot of the stone coffin in the chapel... and especially the way it disappears with a wipe-motion is so creepy, creates such a great tension for when Jan approaches it.  Seeing Karen inside of the coffin still freaks/weirds me out.  And when I was a kid I was petrified!

And there are many more great scare-elements.  I highly recommend this film!  It's a classic with a one-of-a-kind paranormal plotline.