I remember liking this series when I was a freshman in high school, it debuting in November 1980. My younger brother also liked it, and Tom Hanks had a lot to do with why we enjoyed it. Hanks was a very funny guy when it came to late 70s-early 80s TV. The show is a bit worse for wear, though (not to mention that stupid Billy Joel theme). I'm not sure how well Hanks' schtick holds up now, except it doesn't work @ awards ceremonies. First of all, did anyone see him give Warren Beatty an honorary award @ this year's Golden Globes("The man has balls!"-sheer brilliance when it comes to giving speeches, right?) or his extremely obnoxious, unfunny comic hosting of overhyped Ron Howard's tribute a couple of years ago? What about those looonnnggg extreme acceptance speeches he made at the Oscars the two times he won the award, one for a film where his costar Denzel Washington really deserved the award more ("Philadelphia") and the other for his lame-brained backwards schtick as "Forrest Gump", losing Paul Newman the award he really should have won for "Nobody's Fool". Hank's filmography is about as elevated and interesting as one of his film's scripts: "Punchline", "The Bonfire of the Vanities", "A League of Their Own", "Sleepless in Seattle", "Cast Away", "Road to Perdition", "The DaVinci Code". Someone mentions here that Hanks, like Spencer Tracy, won those two Oscars back to back. Okay, given, but the difference here is that Tracy was a natural where Hanks is a sitcom actor. You didn't see Tracy doing the likes of "Dragnet", "Big", or "Turner and Hooch", or, at his heigth, appearing in things such as "You've Got Mail". Of recent, though, Hanks has appeared to accept his true role for what it should be, in films such as the remake of "The Ladykillers" and "The Polar Express". He's also had some breaks, too, with roles such as the concerned commander, raising one eyebrow, in "Apollo 13", or the officer who, while "Saving Private Ryan", laughs at how Ryan mistreats an unfortunate girl. I watched "Bosom Buddies" because it followed "Mork & Mindy" and was up against the far-too-long run of "The Waltons". Ironically, though, it was "Barney Miller" that followed, and was probably the best thing on TV @ the time...but I was only 15, so...