I've just read the reviews of the DVD version,and want to let people know that the sound is as lousy on the Evergreen Entertainment VHS tape as they say it is on the DVD. I bought the movie new and watched it last night,and if you don't use the close-captioned display,you miss maybe 10% of the spoken words. There are whole scenes were not a single word is heard. If you couldn't read them from the screen,you wouldn't have any idea what is being said. It also has the same problems with the nighttime scenes filmed on the mountain. The lighting is so dark you can't see a thing that is going on. It is inexcuseable for them to produce a movie without any quality control whatsoever. Hard to believe they produced and sold this tape,and nobody envolved in the process even watched it.

I gave it two stars based purely on the technical quality of the recording,NOT the plot or the actors.

Beyond that,it is a very gripping story with 1st class acting by everybody involved. I agree with the reviewers who state that the director's and producers Marxist views are on full display and distort reality to the point where "union=good,business=evil". Life ain't that simple. There was and is as much evil in the union management as there was in the management of any business,and nothing on earth has ever managed to match the evils of communism.

Having said all that,the union was clearly neccessary for the workers living in "Company Towns" in America during that period. They wouldn't have been neccessary if the Rockefellers and others hadn't tried to bring feudalism to America by buying these towns and turning the workers into serfs with no rights or freedom at all. What made this even worse were the politicians in the state capitals and in DC took company money and let them get away with it. Even FDR sent Army troops in to protect non-union workers during a coal strike,and the local DA's would allow the company goons to kill local workers without even bothering to have them arrested,much less put on trial.

One day maybe people will realize that nature will always win,and that nature demands that for every action,there is a reaction. Nothing happens in a vacuum. The communist organizers and agitators would have never been able to get in and establish a foothold without the companies being so brutal and greedy. It's a wonder to me that the workers didn't get fed up and hang the company men and owners. Many of them sure deserved hanging. In turn the unions went too far once THEY got in the drivers seat,so they are on their way out now.

At any rate,this movie tells a story that needs to be told. I doubt there are very many people alive in America today who really remember the company towns of old,and damn few under 40 who have even heard of them. These company towns were not only in the coal fields,but also in the textile belt and the tobacco belt. This is a lesson in history the younger generations need to be made aware of to prevent a return to it. This is especially true today given all the illegal aliens being brought into America to work cheap. If we are not careful it may happen again,and it may result in widespread revolution this time.

I only hope a decent DVD version of this movie comes out. When and if it does,I hope every high school social studies and US history teacher in America show it to their students and get them discussing what happened.