Beneath the surface, Suicide Club is more than just another stylized blood bath.  The director Sion Sono&iexcl;¦s vision of a bleak satire/commentary on the state of modern Japanese culture is apparent throughout the film.  However, the underlying themes are so poorly executed and unstructured that they are eventually lost among the bits and pieces of plot/characters/limbs scattered throughout the film.  
As far as gore and shock value goes, Suicide Club won&iexcl;¦t disappoint fans of Audition or Battle Royale.  The first 5 minutes of the movie inside Sinjuku station set a reverberating macabre tone throughout the movie with promises of wall-covering blood, strewn limbs and human-skin rolls (wink wink) to come.  Director Sion Sono (also a noted gay porn director and experimental poet) does an excellent job creating and maintaining the creepy and sinister undercurrent throughout the movie.  The problem is, the undercurrent simmers and simmers but never boils.  The plot is at best non-linear and mostly illogical, peppered with characters with unclear motives, an out-of-nowhere Rocky Horror-esque musical number, and existential soliloquies that fans of Neo Genesis Evangelion would instantly identify.  There are plenty of impressive moments throughout Suicide Club, but it is unclear whether they serve to enhance or befuddle the main mystery of the suicides.
It&iexcl;¦s really a shame because Suicide Club is really a social commentary with underlying themes that cut deep into the Japanese psyche.  The suicides baffle police detectives partially because the truth is hidden somewhere in bubble gum pop music, internet message boards and instant messaging, phenomena on the other side of the generation gap.  The suicidal slogan &iexcl;§To connect yourself to yourself&iexcl;¨ while trite to us Americans post-teens, is nevertheless an important commentary on the Japanese society that is historically obsessed with community and nationalism at the cost of individual liberty and identity.  Perhaps the real horror of Suicide Club is that the premise of the movie, in the eyes of all the over-studied students, over-worked salaryman, and over-disconnected families of Japan, is not really that far fetched.
Unfortunately, all its earnest intentions at social satire are mostly drowned in the blood of Suicide Club.