I chose to view Chalk with the expectation of viewing a comedy that exposed the absurdities within the world of teaching that make individual moments tough but the career as a whole worthwhile (or, at the very least, took reality to the extreme to illustrate how out-of-proportion things feel at the moment though, as we all know, are an extreme reaction to a simpler event). This wasn't hyperbole or exaggeration. I didn't see the satire. It was simply reality (even downplayed to some extent, based on my experience). I agree with the reviewer who said that the video was 'more stressful' than funny. I could see using this film as an opportunity to expose the genuine challenges of teaching/education to those who are considering teaching as a career (as a means for discussion of 'how would you handle this'...). But I was disappointed in the comic value. I have seen commentaries on teaching/education on YouTube that (though short) were spot-on. It is hard to capture the points of humor and moments of light within education if you are not an educator yourself. Most of the video was a summary of all the genuine challenges and awkward situations that teachers face, but I didn't see the comic twist. Unlike shows like The Office which are exaggerated forms of the reality I experienced in a real office setting as a bookkeeper, Chalk is more like the side of teaching that "they don't tell you about in the brochure". It was too close to reality (negative realities) to be entertaining and too flippant to be academic. The scene with the parent-teacher conference that included wine as a refreshment, was in my opinion, inappropriate (not 'humorously inappropriate, just inappropriate) and ethically regrettable. Again, I might use it as a teaching tool but not as a form of entertainment on a tired evening. I am a public school teacher with added experience in an inner-city private school. I think the portions of the video that I was supposed to find funny were the portions that actually made me sad about the future of our public education system. Even more disturbing is the number of people who will laugh at the plight of the teachers in the film and then, when real teachers raise concerns about some of these same issues, those viewers will laugh and vote/make budgetary decisions based on this 'documentary'. Perhaps individuals who can relate to the video less than I can will find it more entertaining. I did not laugh during this film. Considering its billing as a comedy, I was disappointed.