The Chairman's Rating: 2/10
This movie is Sanctimonious Tripe!
Just when you hoped that Matrix: Reloaded was a fluke, you find out that it wasn't.  It was the original Matrix that was the fluke.
This movie is the poster child for the 'WCS' award (Would'a, Could'a, Should'a).  No, correct that.  This one earns a special WCS Lifetime Achievement Award.
Everything that made 'The Matrix' the phenomenon it was (such that I use the reference Pre-Matrix and Post-Matrix when describing special effects or sci-fi thereafter) was missing from this movie.  Everything important, everything meaningful to the true Matrix storyline was either glossed over or run together in horribly placed soliloquies, as if to say, 'Get the storyline over with so we can get back to spending all of our $ on the special effects, Maaaan' (spoken with 70's hippie drawl)  To me, using special effects in film is akin to matching perfect wine (special effects) with the right food (storyline) .  The food (storyline) must come first and is the most important.  If the wine (special effects) is overbearing,  the entire experience falls flat.  The Wachowski brothers had two paths to go down after The Matrix: 1) true sci-fi storyline and a mind expanding plot, spiced with special effects; or 2) special effects to impress the 13 year-old kids to buy lots of stuff.  The chose the latter, and the viewers have suffered the consequences.
The few pieces of good storyline were totally overshadowed.  However, kudos to an admirable job by Mary Alice as the Oracle.  With the loss of Gloria Foster, Ms. Alice was given a tough role and given no script with which to work, she managed to pull it off.
With the exception of Neo, anyone really doing anything was non-white, female or both.  The true beauty/genius of The Matrix was that you never noticed race or gender.  The characters were written so well and performed so brilliantly by the cast that it made no difference at all.  I loved it and was hoping for lots more of the same in future releases, in essence eliminating stereotypes.  In Revolutions, the politically-correct stereotypes were jammed in the viewers faces constantly.
There were more cliches in this movie than sentinels. In the 'finest' Independence Day tradition: Tough, old grizzled
Marine yelling at the 16-year old kid, the 'Give 'em hell' speech, the kid 'saves the day', 2 chicks dishin' (rockets, that
is), Jada Pinkett ScreenKiller calling everything 'Baby'.  Jogging instead of running, while trying to escape pursuers?  C'mon, fake the running, at least, but jogging with flattened hands doesn't make anyone appear to be running faster.
And after seeing the inhabitants of Zion, all I did was arm-chair General and root for the machines.  I think the sentinels should have been outfitted with white gloves at the end of their tentacles, just so they could 'dope-slap' everyone in Zion.
With the choir music and doe-eyes at the mention of the name 'Neo', you can tell that they were hoping to start a belief system akin to the Jedi Knights of Star Wars, thereby propagating the series into lot$ of $ale$.
To top it all off, the 'Features' in the 2-CD set:
Links to Web sites (to $ell $tuff)
Matrix Comics (to $ell $tuff)
Matrix Tunnel Game (to $ell $tuff)
(BTW, the Matrix: Reloaded PC Game was rated by many as one of the worst games released in 2003.)
For an example of the reverse, take Tomb Raider.  Tomb Raider was a popular video game long before the movies came out.  So when the movies arrived, everyone knew to pretty much check your brain at the door, sit back and be entertained.  Both movies succeeded and were hits because we knew roughly what to expect.  Not so with The Matrix.  It was PRECISELY the LBI (Left the Brains In) Factor that so intrigued everyone in the first place.  To remove that intellectual aspect entirely was a total shock and much more of a letdown than if it were mindless to begin with
There is SO much wrong with this film that almost every scene deserves its own paragraph explaining the absurdity of ever putting it to film.  
The horrid music pretending to be awe-inspiring
Castrated Morpheus
Jada Pinket ScreenKiller
Zion Council of Sanctimonious Do-Nothings 
One line sums it up.  Agent Smith, after taking over the matrix and turning it dark, green and rainy, and turning all the people into replicas of himself, asks Neo: `So, how do you like what I've done with the place?'  Frankly, I loved it!
Just like Independence Day, this movie was Chinese food for the eyes, i.e. five minutes after watching it, you're hungry.  In fact, minutes after watching it, I was so ticked off that I immediately watched the first 35 minutes of 'Saving Private Ryan'.  I had to flush this Matrix: REVULSIONS out of my mind and to do it I chose to watch people REALLY fighting, for the RIGHT reasons, for people WORTH saving.
Let's face it, Cypher was right all along. 'Why, oh why, didn't I take the BLUE pill?'  After the first Matrix, I ask myself (and the Wachowski brothers) the same thing.