So give us all a break!  To all the self-proclaimed elitist snobs. Lets try to remember that is the reason why movies like Independence Day are made, to escape from our dower everyday lives and thats why we flock to see  them. Yes, the United States is made to look like the world savior, but how  far is that really from the truth? Arent we called upon all the time to  save the world from itself? If the plot of this movie were to really happen  the united nations would roll over and beg for us to save them! Yes it is a  feel good about being American movie and so it should be we were riding the  high from our victory in the Persian Gulf and a resurgence of patriotism  and this movie capitolized on this in spades it was meant to make you want  to stand up and sing "proud to be an American" at the end of the  movie. I think that the other nations peoples may just see this for what it  is and may make them get the message that its better to join us than fight  us anymore. And wasnt anyone watching the part of the movie were it said  that the president was an ex-fighter pilot Gulf War hero, so with pilots at  a shortage then wouldnt Pullman get in the cockpit once again? After all  once a fighter jock always a fighter jock! And though it didnt explain it  the more I let go of my cinisism of the Smith finding his girlfriend scene,  it led me to think well she did go to El Toro marine air station and maybe  he checked elsewhere and figured maybe she went there in such an emergency,  my wife would go to our air base where I am stationed in such a situation  and what military spouse would not? All in all its a decent movie with some  good humour and great special effects and the video transfer onto digital  is superbly done, the sound in 5.1 will give a great workout to all our  expensive surround systems and isnt that what they are bought for. Plus  there are some great extras I just wish more releases had this much stuff  on them, maybe someday hollywood will start to make more movies that  completly utilize the advantages of DVD, like multi camera angles and such.  Go on and buy this you wont be dissapointed and if you are well maybe you  should stick with documentaries and nature specials.