I remember I used to love both movies. I thought they were absolutely amazing, fun and sorta scary with surprises and as major plus the Sequel is focused on my favorite character Ian Malcolm played by the odd-ball Jeff Goldblum --- Sam Neil's character, Dr. Alan Grant from the first movie (I disregard the third movie since it was neither a book and directed by Spielberg. It was absolutely horrible), although from the book (his character was much more likable), wasn't very interesting in terms of personality. I didn't like the changes they made to his and Dr. Ellie Sattler characters, I.E., - Making them a married couple when in the book Ellie was Dr. Grant's student for something if I remember correctly. But nonetheless I loved the movies. Now however, both to me, are regarded as 3 star movies (A long time ago they would've been 5 stars) because Given how long its been since I've seen this movie, as well as the first one as well as how many times I've seen it, they're not really impressive anymore.

The plot for "The lost world" isn't the brightest (Ian Malcolm is tricked into going another island that INGEN left unattended when he discovers his girlfriend Sarah Harding has gone to this island by the request of the former owner of INGEN John Hammond. Joined by a Nick Van Owen, his daughter Kelly (against her father's wishes) and Eddie Carr they go to the island to rescue Sarah. When Ian's girlfriend doesn't wish to go back they discover a group of poachers and INGEN Employees lead by Peter Ludlow. They're luck takes a turn for the worse when Nick Van Owen and Sarah Harding decide to sabotage the INGEN Camp and take an injured baby Rex onto their trailer, thus angering T-Rex mother and father. From there the INGEN team and Ian Malcolm and co. travel across the island to get the abandoned INGEN Building to communicate with the outside world for help.), heck, its the best from Spielberg but Its an enjoyable that doesn't jump the shark with what it was trying to do. The characters -- at least the major ones -- are interesting as far as movie characters go.

However, the most annoying characters have to be Ludlow, Harding, and Owen (Especially Harding); they do nothing but cause trouble throughout the entire movie, thus never helping whatever cause to escape they had. While "Jurassic Park 3" just had minor characters dying for no good reason and every single one of the main characters surviving (Billy should've been dead, as well as the little boy, the mother, the father, and perhaps Dr. Grant himself) --- The lost world actually had consequential deaths; Whenever the characters died it was because of a mess they got themselves or others into (I.E., Dieter Stark, Peter Ludlow, extras characters, Ajay Sidhu, Eddie Carr, etc.). However the major downfalls of the movie are the obvious bloopers, mistakes (how'd all the crewman of the ship get killed when the T-Rex was in the Cargo hold. And baby T-Rex was already in the city), a weak plot, and most of the acting provided by Jeff Goldblum (whose character really doesn't feel like the character from the the two books or the first movie despite his truma) and Julian Moore, but its entertaining all the same. All in all I still like this movies it just doesn't hold the same "wow" factor for me anymore. P.S.: if you're new to them and are going to watch at least two of them; Pick "The Lost World" and "Jurassic Park," don't touch "JP3" unless your in the mood for a MAJORLY bad B-movie of horrible proportions -- . [a 3 out of 5]