When I first heard the concept behind Phone Booth, I wondered how the film makers would be able to make a full-length film out of the concept of a guy getting stuck in a phone booth because a psycho sniper wants to shoot him.  Then I found out that the film is only 81 minutes long.  Couldn't they have padded it out to a more respectable 90 minutes?  I guess that the film makers ultimately were not able to make a full-length movie.  At several points in the film the action seemed rushed, like the film makers were trying to set land speed records for getting to the end of the story.

This movie is a precursor to 2004's Cellular--the other movie about someone who has to stay on the phone in order to try to stay alive.  Neither of these phone-thriller films are great, but I liked Cellular better than Phone Booth.  In addition to its too-short running time, Phone Booth uses the tired Hollywood trope of the super-sneaky super-criminal who sets up the perfect crime.  The first couple of times watching films about these sneaky super-criminals were fairly entertaining, but by the time we get to Phone Booth, this idea has been well-worn and Phone Booth doesn't really have that much to add.  The super-criminal sets up everything perfectly and even the random events all work in his favor.  Nothing in life is that perfect and this film would have been a lot more interesting if things worked out less perfectly for the super-criminal.

Then there is the question of why Collin Farrell's character ended up in the odd situation of being stuck in phone booth while being threatened by a sniper that he can't see.  At one point, the main character asks the villain why he was targeted and the villain explains that the main character is a rude jerk and he needs to be taught a lesson.  Now considering that the villain is some kind of vigilante who wants to make the world a better place, why would he set his sights so low and pick on some poor lout?  Yes, the main character is rude and borish and is in the process of working up to having an affair, but in grand scheme of things, are these flaws worth the super-villain's grand standing or the audience's attention?  If you are in the mood for a thriller involving a situation where someone's life depends on a phone call, I would recommend the film Cellular instead--it's not a great film, but it is better than Phone Booth.