*Pleasantville* has a lot in common with the movie *Chocolat* : both tell the story of two strangers who bring colour to a black-and-white town of the late 1950s by upsetting the traditional value-system of the locals and leading them into various temptations.
But if *Chocolat* was a brazen attack on Catholicism, *Pleasantville* targets the «normalcy» of  suburbia in the US of the 1950s, or rather of «Pleasantville», a caricature of its portrayals in the sitcoms of the period.
What the movie has to say is that the people who live in Pleasantville- who either stand for the people of the 1950s, or their TV counterparts, or both, or neither- are so dumb that their books have blank pages and that if their daily routine undergoes the slightest alteration, they will be so completely befuddled as to go round and round in circles until some bright teenager from the nineties rescues them.
Fortunately for them, their conservatism is soon challenged by two such youngsters who introduce them to the values their decade inherited from the sixties and all the iconoclastic eras of history : abstract art, rock&#8217;n roll, women&#8217;s lib, *Catcher in the Rye*, pre-marital sex and adultery &#8211; to which, if the movie had not been so cautious not to blow its family-movie cover, might have been added tobacco, alcohol, drugs and Marilyn Manson.
In what is probably the most depraved scene in the whole movie, a mother is taught about the existence of «sex» by a girl she believes to be her own daughter (who introduces her speech by the hypocritical modern bromide «when you really love someone...», even though she is currently having casual sex with a boy she is physically attracted to but has nothing but scorn for) and told that she can experience it on her own. We are later led to understand that her «daughter» has given her instructions on how to «please herself», to use the fashionable euphemism, when she applies them in her bath and the intensity of her experience sets a tree on fire.
Now the loss of innocence in this black-and-white town never goes unnoticed, for all those who bite into the apple suddenly acquire colour (suggesting, inevitably, a flourishing into something better, with colour representing the character&#8217;s buried passions and instincts, healthily given free reign), so that soon war breaks out between the inquisitorial black-and-white forces of reaction (standing for Republicanism, McCarthyism and the religious right) and the persecuted «coloured people», a bunch of enlightened liberals who just seek the freedom to «express themselves».
And if you wonder what the cryptic last scene may mean, here is my interpretation : on a purely dramatic level, the screenwriter simply could not make up his mind about the mother&#8217;s affair, and whether she would leave her husband after cheating on him or not, so he simply chose to have her do both. From a philosophical  point of view, this scene represents the logical outcome of the emancipation from all constraints preached by the film : even though the inhabitants of Pleasantville have gotten rid of the laws of (« bourgeois ») morality, they are still subject to the ultimate obstacle to whim-worship, the law of identity, which says that what is A cannot be non-A at the same time and in the same respect. In the last scene of the film, this law is simply transcended, so that the mother can both be cheating on her husband (and enjoy the pleasures of adultery) and not be cheating on her husband (and still be an irreproachably faithful wife.) More colloquially, she can have her cake and eat it too, as can the screenwriter.
*Pleasantville* is a big thank you to the sixties for saving us from the fifties, and to Satan for giving us the guts to stand up to God, experience evil and leave His mindless Garden of Eden.
Interestingly, the Office for Film & Broadcasting, calling « its depiction of the repressed 1950s vs. the supposedly enlightened 1990s ... simplistic at best », gave it an A-IV rating (« Adults, with reservations ».)