I'd seen this title in my local anime store, but had left it on the shelf since it didn't look too good.  Then found out that the North American release was likely to fall victim to the infamous US Kiddy Porn Panic, so decided to shell out USD 16 and find out what the fuss was about.

In passing: it is beyond my understanding why this latest version of the Madness of Crowds should have chosen to target a visual arts genre that has never, in its entire existence, displayed a picture of a real child - or, indeed, of a real anything.  But abnormal psychology is not my forte, so back to the review.

It's not too good.  The palette is very sombre, mostly black, gray and sepia.  No primary colours except a lot of red - blood red, if you get my meaning.  And the animation is poor: many still shots and pan shots, not much fluid motion even in the fight scenes.

The story begins badly.  The mysterious high school, the goofy girls in short skirts, the boys forming rival clubs and bullying each other, ... Oh, and a hero with amnesia who has forgotten he's a werewolf.  Yawn.  But if you persevere, it does improve.  The series is divided into two main arcs: episodes 1 to 7 tell the story of how the Vampire Queen created a save haven for her fellow vampires - the Bund of the title.  The second arc, episodes 8 to 12, is about the rivalry between old vampire families.  It fills in some of the back story, but leaves enough loose ends to suggest a sequel.

Overall, the story is watchable, interesting, and dense enough to repay more than one viewing.  The character development is also well done, and often quite moving.

As other have mentioned, Mira the Vampire Queen is drawn as a young girl.  She has exactly one nude scene - in episode 2 - and there is no visible sexual connotation whatever. A bit of verbal banter about her "immature body", but very tame. In fact, most of the scene is a fight scene.  The other nude scene - in episode 11 - involves a female shape-shifting monster, who during a deadly battle with the hero briefly transforms into human form to distract him.

However, there is a lot of graphic violence.  Stabbing, dismemberment, vampire biting, and all with realistically drawn blood.  The local film board gave this anime a PG-13 rating, and I agree.  Not for the younger ones.