It is obvious from the DVD collection that 8 manga do not a season make. Part One of the collection covers most of the first two books in the series, but goes off on curious tangents in an effort to pad the series, no doubt to bring it up to the requisite number of episodes to fill out a season. Considering how difficult it was to obtain this first part of the collection, I was hoping for something a bit more intriguing. In the manga Sebastian possesses a charming ominousness and at times appears not unlike his beloved felines with their way of tormenting their prey before killing them. Where is the seducing slyness that always seems to shock his master by reminding him that the handsome form hides a creature waiting patiently to devour his soul? Other reviewers have complained that Sebastian does not look like his manga counterpart and that the accents of both main characters are not quite what they imagined. Personally, I didn't mind either Sebastian or Ceil's voices, though they seem more "mid-Atlantic" than English. The anime does lack the exaggerated pretty of the manga, but it is not distracting. What is distracting is the trio of idiot servants whose voice actors are irritating in the extreme. To give some credit, perhaps they are going for humour in creating such painfully sounding people. The alternative is to consider that none of the voice actors can do a credible English accent (two are a sort of bad Cockney and the third a complete mystery). The anime writers also seem to feel the need to add more macabre elements than appeared in the actual storyline. I have mixed views of going off on tangents with regard to translating manga to anime. In the case of FullMetal Alchemist it resulted in a completely different story. Here it sort of wanders off, comes back, then wanders off again. It is not a bad series, but it could have been better. The source material is much better to look at than read, however, if the anime creators wanted to embroider on the original, they could have come up with storylines that were much better. With three more books left to release in the manga I have not read it all. I fervently hope there is no fire breathing dog demon who runs around naked in his human form nor any maniacal hermaphrodite angels. That would be so disappointing...