Nowhere in the titles for this movie is the name William Peter Blatty listed.  Of course that was true for "Exorcist II: The Heretic," as well as "Exorcist: The Beginning."  One can only presume that Blatty, who created "The Exorcist," is compensated for the use of his characters, even if he dissociates himself from these byproducts.

"Dominion" tells the story of how the old priest Father Merrin encountered his first demoniac, in Africa as a younger man.  Two versions of this prequel were actually completed.  This is the first version, directed by Paul Schrader.  Reportedly, the brass at Warner Brothers found it too heady and so it was shelved, then completely re-written, and made over by action director Renny Harlin, released as "Exorcist: The Beginning."

Neither film is very reminiscent of the original movie.  Of the two, "Dominon: The Exorcist Prequel" is smarter, drier and, at least, inhabits the philosophical realm of the Blatty piece:  without evil, goodness has no meaning; through faith in God redemption is possible.  The movie is not particularly frightening.  It takes nearly a half hour for anything eerie to happen.  This is not necessarily a criticism.  It seems as though Schrader was attempting to recreate the long quiet beginning of "The Exorcist."  When the little scary bits do begin, there are lulls and gaps in between them, and the movie never builds in a strong way to its climax, which is equal parts sloppy and intelligent, depending upon which branch of the action is unfolding.

There are nice visual embellishments in "Dominion" that seem to intentionally recall "The Exorcist" and "Exorcist II: The Heretic" without hitting you over the head.  It would be interesting to watch these three movies in succession.  Some of the actors deliver quietly moving performances.  The film looks better and more natural over all, than the Harlin version.

There are no surprises in the arena of special effects.  The digital animation is on the cheesy side.  The blood looks like mercurochrome.  Glowing red eyes are silly.  Wires suspend actors and fling them around as in a hundred other movies.

This movie is for the "Exorcist" aficionado.  It is also of interest for the movie buff who wants to see what happens when a movie studio commissions the same movie twice.  The idea is practically conceptual art.