It's three years behind being considered "timely", yes; certainly, you may have heard this from a plethora of critics.  I resent that.  This event in our country's history is so pivotal, so controversial, that it must be repeated over and over until even the most fickle and inattentive of individuals consider it a tedious act.  It's the only way to deny the next history books any wriggle room for unwarranted subjectivity.

Keeping that in mind, only some will find Greengrass's new thriller intriguing, let alone enthralling.  It may be my, as of yet, lack of mental saturation to the middle eastern debacle which sets me firmly in that alternative minority.

Regardless, it's hardly a love-it-or-hate-it film; this new episode in the Greengrass/Damon saga puts itself at the mercy of audience preconceptions of the second Gulf War, and many of you will ultimately consider it unnecessary.  But, again, I ask:  Is it engrained in you yet?

Well, Greengrass takes steps to achieve just that, taking few risks in a territory treaded by superior predecessors...one of which just recently bringing home a statue.  It's ultimate strengths and flaws are meshed together to make for a fleeting mediocrity that it never quite escapes; after all, despite everything going against it, this is a film with components of undeniably immense talent, and the tried-and-true subject matter is no excuse for its lack of more consistent effort, if not its ability to be extraordinary.

but the real bummer comes from the incompetence and illogical fallacies that accompany "Green Zone"'s otherwise capable tale of deception.  For every thorn of intrigue, there is an amateurish action to offset its credibility, and it goes a long way to preventing the audience from being engrossed.

That said, it's certainly not without its thrills, and that much is achieved by the steadfast chemistry that Damon and Greengrass seem to share, as well as a strong supporting cast.  Isaacs, the longtime british shoe-in for the gruff, villainous types, is uncannily comfortable playing an American special forces member.  Damon, already proving himself as an easy go-to man for a leading role, is solid but unexceptional - something that I feel may become an unfortunate staplepoint in his immediate career should he not seek out for unconventional roles.  Finally, Gleeson and Kinnear play off of one another perfectly, and I really do wish that more screen time had been given to the two of them.

I feel that I need to reiterate my warning to those who are looking for game-changing insight into what is quickly becoming apart of our history, despite the fact that men and women around the world are being affected by it every day.  Keep in mind that many of the questions Green Zone brings up may have already been answered; or, if they haven't by now, then they're apparently not important enough to the masses to be worth considering.  A cynical view, but one I consider sadly accurate.  But whatever; keep that in mind, and avoid the headlines telling you what's old news, and this very unpunctual thriller may grab you.