John Boorman directed what's probably one of my all time favorite films of the 60's, and also one of my favorite film noirs: Point Blank. However, his 1972 film, adapted by James Dickey from his own novel, finds the director falling on his face, and the cement upon which his face lands is called the 70's. The film has not aged well with it's themes and questions, philosophies and ideas. It's a draining film, draining in the sense that it's a chore to get through, not because of the content or story. The directing is relatively stale, the acting is hammy (except for in one pivotal moment, which I'll discuss in a bit.), even the cinematography was on par with a Mondo film (some of which are actually superior in that department.)

The one thing the film is well known for, and this has to be the sole reason why it's usually on so many "disturbing" film lists, is the man on man rape scene. Squeal like a piggy are the immortal words from one Woodsman to the City Boy. There's not much squealing to be heard, nor is there much of anything else to be heard. One would be lead to believe that if a grown man were to be sodomized by another grown man, having never previously engaged in this family orientated activity, would be hollering at least a little bit, but Bob never so much as lets out a few whimpers; simply, not believable. Sorry, folks.

Words like brutal and unrelenting describe the film in countless reviews; I found it to be neither. It's themes and ideas are fairly cut and paste as well, perhaps if they had been delivered more intelligently they would be rewarding but they simply are not. There is no law, no civility, in the wilderness; the compare and contrast of the beauty of nature to the decay of cities; the fact that horrible acts can still happen in an area of alleged tranquil beauty. They're all timeless themes and discussion starters, but not when they find themselves in the context of this piece of cinema.

By the end, the men have changed, but I didn't care; they weren't interesting or worth investing myself in either sympathetically or objectively.

How this film has drawn comparisons to Sam Peckinpah's masterpiece Straw Dogs is beyond me.