My god, I just don't know what the world's coming to when Tom Green make a comedy where a baby is hurled around by it's umbilical cord, a horse penis is jiggled, and a man is showered in elephant semen....and I actually laugh. Tom Green is a comedic enigma, part Jim Carrey, part Adam Sandler, All spontaneous combustibility, just waiting to cause an explosion of laughter.
There really is no plot. No, I'm serious, Tom Green managed to slap 87 minutes of film together with virtually nothing holding the damn thing up. That non-sense about Gord (Green's character) aspiring to become an animator is basically a smoke screen to blind the audience from the fact that movie exists simply to make the grossest, most ribald comedy since, well, EVER!!!!
I can't believe that people thought this movie was such a hunk of comedic blasphemy. Yes, it is gross, nasty, vulger, tasteless, and utterly, utterly childish, but it's a funny movie, not despite all this, but because of it. Good old Roger Ebert described it as "a vomitorium consisting of 93 mins. of Tom Green doing things a geek in a sideshow would turn down." I couldn't agree with that statement more. Tom Green has a alot of foul language to get out of his system, he humps a Chinese man in a public bank, he licks a open wound, he canes his his Masachist girlfriend, he tapes an umbilical cord on his belly, and so on, and so on, and so on.......
BUT, the movie is still hilarious, maybe because there's a part of each and every one of us that wishes we could publically misbehave to this degree and get away with it. The movie is completely empty of brains, but it's everyone's chilhood fantasy. It may go down in history as the PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE of comedy, but Green is clearly not ashamed of this. God help me, I just laughed so hard. I recommend this film to you on the simple level of stupid comedy. Comedy can be funny when it's mesmorizingly stupid, and if you doubt this at all, FREDDY GOT FINGERED is your movie, jack.
Oh, and just why is the film called FREDDY GOT FINGERED. Well, the most juvenile joke involves Green accusing his father of molesting his 25-year old brother, Freddy. But then, were'nt you expecting that?