This movie should be required viewing in any college level sociology class. The film documents a man who would struggle to actually be an outcast in any social group attempting to penetrate a clique of individuals who have likely been outcasts their entire lives.

Steve Wiebe is almost painfully average.  He's a middle-class school teacher who'd been an above average athlete and he plays a couple of musical instruments.  He has a good-looking wife and could be a poster boy for suburban America.  He also has an almost preternatural ability to play Donkey Kong, and therein lies the trouble.

In order to have his record-breaking score recognized, Steve has to break through and enter into a world of people who probably weren't two-sport athletes and certainly couldn't mingle well at an office Christmas party.  In getting his score validated, too, he will be bringing down their king.

Billy Mitchell is the undisputed monarch of these gamers.  I'd first read about him in a 2006 article in the now-defunct Oxford American magazine.  In that article, the author, David Ramsey, tried to convey Mitchell's cockiness but still be respectful.  After this film, I have a new degree of respect for Mr. Ramsey's restraint.

Mitchell is, rightfully, recognized as Gamer of the Century.  He's sort of law and order in this world in that he is uniquely qualified to challenge all high score claims.  Mitchell is also a successful business man and he's married to a woman who you will not admit is hot in front of your wife, but men get it.  Mitchell's success in business and marriage, though, does not tarnish or diminish his status among the gamers.  In fact, they likely cheer him on.  You expect your hero to do well in all endeavors.

When Weibe submits his score, it's obvious that the Twin Galaxies crowd is eager to close ranks and protect their hero.  Weibe is left with no option but to demonstrate his skills in person.  He has to physically play the game surrounded by these outcasts who are so galvanized they have actually become snobs in their own right.  There seems to be several instances where they are trying to distract this interloper during his game-play, with Billy Mitchell himself doing a silent walk-by.  The crux of it is, here's Weibe, a guy who could be anybody's best bud and fit in anywhere, being shunned by folks who've probably been kept at a distance all their lives.

The extra features, particularly the extended interviews, are almost better than the movie itself.  The players describing Burger Time are the greatest thing I've seen on film in a while.  Interesting commentaries, too.

Anyone old enough to remember arcades needs to watch this film.  Beware, though, you'll find yourself with an almost uncontrollable urge to prowl e-bay for old games.