I was really excited when I ordered "Origin: Spirits of the Past", but I'm sad to say that I was slightly disappointed with the movie.  There were some great parts about the film, like the musical score and the animation was simply splendid to watch.  On a visual level it is simply fantastic.  The idea is fairly original and well executed except for the fact that there is little to no character development.  The film starts at a good pace, but after the discovery of Toola it lurches forward unexpectedly in the plot.  The lack of development makes the decisions of the characters a little confusing.  I think this movie could have been truly fantastic if they had taken more time to delve into the character motivations a little more.

It would have been better if:

(These might be considered spoilers, I tried to keep it vague, but read at your own risk)

- There was a reason to suspect a strong bond between Agito and Toola, or a connection between Toola and the town.  Overall the time that they spend together is rather small and there is no reason think that Toola cares significantly about Agito or the town until the end, and then it just seems a bit out of place.  If they had spent more time developing the relationships and Toola's own feelings of displacement then a lot of my qualms would be erased.
-  The other part of the film that didn't seem consistent was Agito's enhancement.  I understand why it was there, and agree that it should have been, but I would have liked to see, again the relationship with Toola that would make him feel so determined to take on that option, and if there was maybe a little character struggle with the decision.

Those are the aspects of the film that were really missing.  Without understanding fully the motivations of the characters, the actions seemed out of place.  Structurally the plot is great, but there is a lot that you have to fill in to make sense of it.  I didn't connect with the struggle of any of the characters, and didn't enjoy the viewing process.  Maybe if I watch it again, then I will enjoy it more- now that I've filled in the gaps with my own imagination.

You might not like if:
-  If you are somebody, like me, who finds character development a really important aspect of anime, then I might suggest you pass on Origin.  If you are interested in the genre of post-apocalyptic and/or struggles of mankind with nature I would suggest:  Princess Mononoke, Wolf's Rain, Laputa: Castle in the Sky.

You will probably enjoy if:
- You watch anime for the aesthetics of the art.  This is a beautifully rendered anime visually.
- You are an AMV maker.  (I am, and this is the redeeming part of this purchase for me).  There is some excellent footage to really spice up an AMV.
-  Excessive character development is not your style.

Thanks for reading, hope this was helpful.