Kingpin is a classic comedy about a washed-up bowler named Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson), and his young Amish apprentice, Ishmael (Randy Quaid).  It starts out with young Roy as a child, learning how to bowl.  Once he gets into his twenties, he becomes a professional bowler, and everybody loves him.  He begins to hustle people at bowling alleys, pretending he is a terrible bowler with his accomplice Ernie McCracken, (Bill Murray).  Though Bill Murray is not mentioned as a main character, he is simply hilarious and vital to this film.

 During a hustle gone badly, Roy finds himself in a bad situation.  The guys he was hustling at the bowling alley end up finding out about his scam.  In return, they put Roy's right hand in the ball return at the front of the lane.  His hand gets amputated, and his bowling career comes to abrupt halt.  It turns out that his so-called friend Ernie McCracken had him set up, in order to take his place in the bowling alley.

 Roy ends up an alcoholic salesman who sells bowling products to the local bowling alleys.  He is poor, and can barely afford rent, but then he meets Ishmael, an Amish bowler that he ends up coaching to stardom.  Everyone in the movie is great, but Bill Murray as Ernie McCracken is a comical genius and easily one of the funniest characters I have ever seen in a movie.

 Filled with classic scenes of comedy, all of the actors play their roles to a tee.  Woody Harrelson plays a great bald, burnt-out loser whose luck cannot possibly get any worse.  Just when you think his life is completely in shambles, he discovers Ishmael, and convinces him to go on a bowling tour.  Having an interesting tour of the country, the Amish farmer has quite an experience living a whole different lifestyle.

 Directed by the Farrelly brothers, who brought you Dumb and Dumber, you can expect a well-directed comedy with countless punch lines.  Being a very underrated comedy, I am surprised this film is not more popular.  Overall, Kingpin is a classic comedy with great actors and is well worth purchasing.