I was extremely disappointed in this movie! Not only is it disturbing, but it is not true to the Anne stories written by Montgomery. The story line just makes your head spin, and you keep waiting for things to be "straightened out".....but they never are. Not only does this story completely deviate from what Montgomery tells us of Anne's past (I suppose the writer of this film just took liberties, and used the Anne fame and the fame of his previous Anne movies, to get away with this writing).....but it even ruins the way you look at Anne. If THIS is what Anne was really like - I want no part of her!!! A very disturbed girl that manages to get away with incredible lies, and to use the lies to get the things she wants......this is a far cry from Montgomery's Anne. When this movie arrived, my whole family could not wait to start watching it - we settled in with popcorn, and prepared to enjoy the evening. Instead, we all sat painfully in stiffness throughout the entire movie - speechless - and hoping we were not seeing what we were - and not understanding what we were seeing.......and then we all left the room agitated, and with sick feelings in the pit of our stomachs ........PLEASE stay away from this movie!!! And at best, rent it if you must see it......but please review it before you let youngsters watch - it has little or no moral value lessons in it, and will leave you confused and angry......and could even convince young children to take up lying as a method of getting what they want - or as a means to drown theirselves in denial!!!  "A New Beginning" is an appropriate sub-title for this movie - Sullivan has completely given Anne a "new" beginning (she's teetering on the brink of insanity here folks).....and TOTALLY different from what Montgomery would have given her!!! The original three movies by Sullivan of Anne (Green Gables, Avonlea, Continuing Story) are wonderful six star films - beautifully done, with excellent acting, and heartwarming characters that make you want to live life to the fullest and believe in your dreams - watch them all! Even if they deviate from the books, they are still wonderful family viewing (even my husband enjoys them). But this movie is just terrible.......stay clear of "A New Beginning"!!!!!