I took two younger girls to see this movie, and all THREE of us agreed that it was a total "waste" of time... Everyone who keeps saying that there is "something for everyone" is sorely mistaken. Coming from a Christian home, I was extremely uncomfortable with all of the "new age" propaganda (which is NOT like Disney magic in the slightest) and bizarre things that were going on. Watching teachers "read" the palm of a 5 year old (or how-ever old she was) was actually disturbing to me. As if parents just let people do things like that to their children while they're sitting right there... Perhaps you would, if you were totally fine with palm reading. But, I know plenty of people who are not.

  The film had an over-all "tense" feeling that never really delivers but, puts someone who was expecting something pleasant in an uncomfortable state... like the one of wondering whether something is going to "pop" out of the cabinets or something.

  The storyline was something so enormously far fetched that my 13 year old sister had no idea what had even just hit her. Unlike a movie like "Bridge to Terribithia," or something of that nature, this movie would require you to know about "mysticism," and "new age" beliefs to understand HALF of what's going on.

  The child star is extremely "creepy" in some scenes. She does things like "shows someone" a magic trick which totally freaks this person out. Especially when she inserts her hand into a floating globe that appears to be disintegrating it. She does other strange things and becomes steadily more creepy leading some of us to wonder if she's really being influenced by the devil or something. Talking about "astrology" and what not.

  Perhaps the "strange" language that this stuffed bunny is always spewing out was supposed to sound "cute" but in reality, I think myself and a lot of people just found it to be disturbing.

  I would NOT suggest this movie to young children or to anyone sensitive. It might scare them terribly. If you however like the idea of all the "Tibbetian" and "New Age" stuff then go for it. My personal thought? It'll completely go over most children's heads and stay in their minds as a really strange thing they saw when they are older.