There's a trend in modern movies (Dances with Wolves, The Last Samurai)to feature western characters who disavowe their own history and culture to take new identities in (highly idealized)cultures alien to their upbringing. The question Gods and Generals asks is, does your own culture, despite all of its defects and sins (both past and present), merit preservation and loyalty -are you willing to fight to keep it? 
This is what makes the Civil War so important, beyond the issue of slavery. It is a contest between an agrarian, religious, aristocratic culture, and a city dwelling, industrialist, secular one. None of this is to obscure the issue of slavery, but, if you are going to say that the confederacy was illegitimate because of slavery, then what world culture, in it's roots, is legitimate? Is it worth asking whether slavery (as an unnatural institution and with the advance of new technology, etc.) would not have soon died out on its own, without the massive blood shed and destruction the interference of the north caused, and perhaps with a lot less of the undeniable racial acrimony that the Reconstruction era caused, extending even into the present day?
Gods and Generals is the only movie which even hints at asking these (in our politically correct, present day) almost unspeakable questions.
As for the movie itself:
At almost 4 hours it is a very long and not particularly focused movie; as opposed to other movies of the same genre, say, Braveheart. It's often hard to follow the thread of events from one scene to the next. There are very powerful scenes next to scenes that left me completly baffled(the train conductor scene, the bonnie blue flag folk dance). In some ways it works almost as well as a sort of anthology of civil war video images, as it does a movie. The battle scenes get the job done, sometimes very realistically, but director Maxwell's decision to use re-enactors instead of real soldiers was kind of unfortunate.. Re-enactors tend to be people who have the money and leisure time to pursue such an expensive, involved hobby (middle aged men).
I would second all the praise that's been given to Stephen Lang's perfomance as Jackson, and I'll advise you not to pay any attention to reviewers who characterise the movie's characters open (and historically correct) expression of their religious faith as smarmy televangelist displays of religion. These reviewers strike me as people with a chip on their shoulder, who would most probably describe any display of Christianity in such a broad, stereotypical manner.
To finish, just let me say that, yes, people very probably did talk like that! The educated of those times lived and breathed the classics of western civilization and it was almost certainly reflected in the way they chose to speak. If you don't believe me look up the letters and writings of some of the movies characters. They are readily available on the internet.