The movie had great potential even though it was based on partially true events. Anyway, the movie starts as Vassili Zaitsev is going to the front padlocked in a boxcar. This was the first thing I noticed that was insulting to my country and its history. The portrayal of my grandfathers that fought in this battle as ill-equipped frightened cattle.  This is pure BS, if anyone has ever read a non-fiction account of this battle or seen a documentary about this battle then they know that what they show on the screen is pure crap. History has shown that Soviet soldiers weren't so frightened and ill-equipped when compared the the "MIGHTY" Wehrmacht. The first 30 minutes of the film insulted me on such a level that I had no interest in watching the rest of this bland and worthless film. In the first scene, supposedly you see the Red army in action. What you are really seeing is an NKVD penal unit charging across "Red Square." into the german machine guns which of course decimate the soldiers and then as they retreat their own officers(aka executioners?) mow down the rest. the Red army never fought like this. The Penal units of the NKVD did-however shooting retreating soldiers on such a scale was never done. Who in the already dwindling 62nd army had time to waste more men for nothing? Besides, Stalingrad was not fought charging across squares-it was fought within houses, rooms, factories all in brutal close quarters fighting. The Specialties of the Soviet soldiers: Submachine guns, grenades, flamethrowers, knives, bayonets, sharpened shovels, and any other form of material that could be found. the 10man storm squad was more important than a 10,000 man division. The first scene is heavily done with all the typical western stereotypes and cliches of the cold war. oddly enough the character i liked was the German sniper-he seemed very real to me. the "Russian" Characters were all marionettes-I felt no sympathy towards them. The Characters, with the exception of the German were all without depth-no surprise here-film made by a French dabbler named jean-jacques annuad. Little does this incompetent idiot understand Russians, and the Battle of Stalingrad. Some of the sniper scenes were interesting to watch even though they were done in a surprisingly quiet Stalingrad. The Propaganda theme was pathetic-Historically it played a very miniscule part. the love triangle was out of place-Women played a very impotant part, but they were not frightened whores as this film would have one believe. Vehicles were important to Annuad-he got them and their usage wrong. German pz. III's effortlessly mowing down Russian defense in the factories-please, there were 3 soviet tank brigades equipped with T-34's and KV's that fought in the factories. "the germans have tanks, aircraft, artillery what do I have?" A dialogue done by one of those "Incompetent" Soviet wusses.
Guess what, our soldiers had all of those things. How else were they able to bleed the Germans? I won't write anymore, I don't want to think of this pathetic film anymore."A foreigner will not notice, a Russian will not forgive." -Valeriy Potapov, Director of Russian Battlefield(History.vif2.ru)
I recommend watching The Russian film "Come and See" or to read The books "Enemy at the gates" or "War of the rats" Read and watch this and maybe you can understand the Russian fron of WW2. this film isn't not a source for anything-Pure BS 0/5