Season 2 started off with the bad decision to kill off Ashley and pretty much just went down hill from there.

After killing off Ashley, the show then moved away from the storyline of "The Five" and the Cabal, which both had an incredible amount of potential. There seemed to be a lot of miscommunications in interviews and the actors seemed to contridict themselves regarding Ashely's return, which didn't help things. The remaining storylines of season 2 were filled with huge plot holes, or just had no continuity at all, to the point that the show even moved away from the focus of abnormals and instead concentrated on the introduction of the new character of Kate.

Kate Freelander is the absolute worst character ever written. It is pretty much a trifecta of disaster, the character is poorly written, poorly introduced to the show, and honestly poorly acted. The character is cliche and there is just no likable quality to her. The sarcastic one-liners fall flat and only serve to make the character even more annoying. The show was aware that Kate would not be well-received at first, so instead of letting things just progress naturally, they forced the character to be immediately accepted by the team.  The scenes with this character not only come across as forced, but the team's immediate acceptance of her after her role in Ashley's death, hurts the intergrity of the other characters. It makes them look foolish.

I would like to say that I hope season 3 will be better, but so far all interviews have indicated, few story-arc, no mention of the Five, and even more focus on the growth of Kate's character. As was stated by another reviewer, the show should have stuck to their focus on abnormals, that is what made it interesting.

Season 2 is so bad, that not only is it less expensive than the season 1 DVD, but even Syfy is airing mostly episodes from season 1 and not season 2 in reruns.  Even the marathon to promote season 3 is mostly all comprised of episodes from season 1.  That speaks volume of how bad season 2 truly is the network is even staying away from it.