Justin Russell's "The Sleeper" is hard to classify. If made only as a true homage to the slasher era of the horror genre, then it succeeds, hands down, in many more ways than Ti West's The House of the Devil. It absolutely encapsulates everything the '80s ingrained into its films: the killer was mysterious and unknown; someone with a back-story, either implied or explained. The killer wasn't your boyfriend, or brother, or father, or best friend. It wasn't a who-done-it. It was standard slasher fare, and a loving amalgamation of films with a post-"Halloween," "When A Stranger Calls," and especially "Black Christmas" influence. It shares the same dark mood as "The Prowler" (my favorite '80s slasher), and there's even a nod to "Prom Night" in the form of an entirely ridiculous and shoe-horned in dance sequence, complete with an original Tone Loc-like '80s jam. The movie, about a sorority plagued by threatening and ghastly phone calls, contains violence certainly grislier than we remember from that of the '80s, which while relishing in its luridness, always seemed somehow light and unintimidating. When heads were cut off they bounced down stairs; in "The Sleeper" they are caved in with claw hammers and fill with dark blood. The soundtrack by Gremlin is highly evocative of the one Goblin wrote for Dario Argento's Suspiria. It certainly serves to add a thick layer of brood to the proceedings, and the murder sequences become that much more effective. They even borrowed West's idea of releasing a copy of their movie on VHS, also complete with an over-sized case.

With all that said, how does "The Sleeper" work as a standalone movie? If you choose to ignore the movie's influences and motivations, and judge it on its own merits, it's not terribly great. The acting is beyond atrocious almost across the board, and the music tends to overpower our characters' dialogue, which barely manages to bleed through the ominous tones. The girls are given very little development -- you'll be hard-pressed to remember their names as they're being killed. And there's one chase sequence at the end involving a university amphitheater that takes way too long. But once again...was the piss-poor acting and lack of any development a purposeful choice? After all, slasher films were cranked out during the '80s with little regard for quality, and their actors went from B-list down to C pretty quickly. No one recalls "The House on Sorority Row" to praise the acting abilities of teen girls and guys running from the guy in the clown suit. And in then '80s, movie audiences were there for the kills, not to know anyone's names, or care about whatever love triangles may be going on, or who might be traumatized enough by a past event that would lead them...TO BE THE KILLER! If writer/director Russell can say, "yes, I wanted the actors to suck, and I wanted the film to appear slightly shoddy," then I say mission 100% accomplished.

Still, it's a fun watch, and the gore is genuinely well done and disturbing.

For a more in-depth and uncensored review, visit The End of Summer by clicking my username.