I've read the book by Jay Anson as compiled by the alleged account by George and Kathy Lutz and I've also watched the movie starring James Brolin and Margot Kidder. Though based on a "true" story about the alleged haunted house on Long Island's south shore some 35 miles east of New York City, the only horror the Lutzes faced, were not ghosts and goblins or any possessive evil spirit during their 28 days of "terror", they were financial ones. George could not keep up with the burden of Amityville's taxes and the mortgage he had to pay on the house, which drained him physically that led to frustration and anger moods that affected the entire family. The story was fabricated by the Lutzes in order to sell a story for a financial gain.

Three different families resided at the home prior to the DeFeos, and reading the history of the house, it was a dream home built by a couple, John and Catherine Moynahan, back in 1925 who resided there until they died. Their daughter, Eileen Fitzgerald, moved in with her family until she sold the home to a John and Mary Riley in 1960. The Rileys had marriage problems, divorced and sold the house to the DeFeo family in 1965 where they lived nine years until 23 year-old Ronnie "Butch" DeFeo murdered his family on the early morning hours of November 14, 1974. This was the only real horror to occur in the normally peaceful Amityville.

Butch DeFeo claimed he heard voices prior to the murders, and this was due to his drug addiction to heroin. Aside from the DeFeos with their constant fights and the Lutzes with their financial woes, many other families who have resided there were happy ones. Subsequent residents experienced no problems whatsoever and lived normally as in any other home. The quarter moon windows that gave an "eerie" impression as seen on the movie were replaced by square ones. The house used on the film was one that was replicated to look like the real house, but was located in Toms River, NJ. Comparing the movie prop with the real home, the prop had the chimney exposed along the exterior wall, the quarter moon windows were larger and the prop was painted white. The real house was mainly dark brown back in 1974 and 1975 with white trim. The enclosed porch and the back of the house were painted white. Currently, the real house is painted entirely white.

The Lutzes claim that the house was possessed by evil spirits was, in my opinion, completely bunk as was a similar occurrence in West Pittston, PA where a movie based on Jack and Janet Smurl's account on their "cursed" duplex home on "The Haunted". Both movies should only be based on fiction and not fact.