How does one criticize perfection?  The deserved winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture, Best Director (Robert Benton), Best Writing (Robert Benton), Best Actor (Dustin Hoffman), and Best Supporting Actress (Meryl Streep), Kramer VS. Kramer captured an emotional essence that so many films since have tried and failed to resurrect.  Any words that I spew out simply won't do the film justice.  I read the novel by Avery Corman, in which the film is loosely based (first half; the second half is almost word-for-word), and there are certain things that I would have liked to see transferred from the novel to the film.  But I fully understand the changes that were made and the subject matter that was omitted for the final theatrical release.  The film not only tugs at the heart strings, but it also makes such a firm statement about a society that so strictly views parental strengths to be a gender-biased topic.  In this film, workaholic Ted Kramer (Hoffman, in one of the greatest on-screen performances of all time) takes on the responsibility of single working parent for his son Billy (wonderfully portrayed by Oscar Nominee Justin Henry) after his wife Joanna (Streep) suddenly leaves, seemingly abandoning her child.  After Ted rockily develops a rapport with his son, Joanna returns to take custody of Billy, and the courtroom battle between devoted father and emotionally-reborn mother ensues.  To say that this was one of my favorite films of all time would be an understatement.  What so many Hollywood films of today seem to fail to understand is the subtleties that connect the viewer to an emotionally-driven story.  So many films out there go so far out of the realm of possibility just to get an emotional response from their viewer, while Kramer VS. Kramer settles in on a reality that we all know and recognize, and it is through this recognition that we experience a deeply moving family drama of such phenomenal proportions.  I definitely recommend giving this one a gander, and when you're done, watch it a few dozen more times!