Did you people below me on this list of reviews watch the same movie I did?

 I'm a huge Dylan fan, but I also know that Bob Dylan has never used film to his advantage, which explains why he's never made all that many movies.

 This thing is AWFUL. And it's awful pretty much for all the reasons that it's being praised here. Everything everybody says is the movie is supposed to be PROFOUND.

 Nobody can just say, "Hey, Jack, how you doin'?" "Fine. You?" No, the answer to that question would be a 30-second philosophical rant that sounds like Dylan pulled it out of a file cabinet called "profound statements I haven't used yet," and put it in the script just to get rid of it.

 What's really sad is that this all-star cast is here simply to work with Bob Dylan. It's like if JESUS ever made a movie. It could suck big time but who wouldn't want to be in it?

 So we get cameos by everybody from Christian Slater to Bruce Dern to Val Kilmer (to his credit, Kilmer has "creepy" down to a science), Cheech Marin (who actually looks EMBARRASSED to be saying his lines) and the list goes on and on.

 The direction is horrible. John Goodman's unsavory character appears at times to be using the wrong emotions in certain scenes. There are times when it looks like Goodman has simply given up; he just wants to go home.

 Oh, I haven't mentioned the plot yet, not that it matters: Dylan plays Jack Fate, a Bob Dylan character who also happens to be the half-Hispanic, half-white son of the President of North America, an Hispanic fella who apparently took over the hemisphere in a coup, and looks (even on his deathbed) about 20 years younger than Dylan.

 Dylan, of course, is the prodigal son who is in jail until he's sprung free in order to play a benefit concert for...something.

 We never really figure out what, although several ideas are thrown at us.

 On the upside, Dylan performs rather decent versions of five or six songs, most of them his, and there's a cute little girl who sings a perfunctory version of "The Times They Are A-Changing," for no apparent reason.

 Oh, and you do get to see Dylan help beat the tar out of Jeff Bridges, which is always nice.

 "Masked and Anonymous" is a truly jaw-dropping experience. I'm glad I rented it, because I most certainly won't be buying it.