"Splinter" is an obscure, indie flick that I probably never would've heard about if not for my interest in the indie horror genre. It was praised by others for its fresh appeal in a subgenre of overused CGI and tiring monsters.

Like most of the films I seek out, I have a rather high standard set. I need to stop doing this to myself. Time after time I'm disappointed. I can agree this movie had clever, unique creature design (akin to the Flood in the Halo series, actually) that has awesome and practical killing/infection methods. The effects were indeed convincing and CGI free (with one exception at the end) which was the movies biggest plus. The bad side to the deformed, spiked creature is that we never get a clear shot at it. During the action sequences the camerawork is frantic. This effect for me was ineffective. The 'shaky cam method' has been hit (enhanced "REC" to a terrifying spectacle) or miss ("Cloverfield... 'Nuff said) for me and depends on the film's strength elsewhere whether it succeeds or flops. The creature was one of the film's only strong-points and the camerawork hindered that.

The script in "Splinter" is (unintentionally) laughable ("It's okay. It's okay. We're cutting off your arm"). The dialogue was weak in the beginning and didn't engage me with a single character (not one!) and the latter half the script was nonsensical and unrealistic -- and not in the Takeshi Miike sense. For example (*spoilers*) after the amputation scene (which features no blood?) the trio sit around laughing and carrying on like old friends despite one of their appendages being freshly bludgeoned off with a cinder-block. (*end spoilers*)

All three characters are too carbon-copied for my liking. We have the wimpy, indoorsy guy who struggles throughout but shines through, mans up, and becomes the hero. We have the tough-as-nails, in-yo-face chick who wears the pants in the relationship. And for good measure they threw in the disgruntled villain who warms up, being a "really nice guy" on the inside and redeems himself in a blaze of valiance. Bleck. Urp. Excuse me... I just vomit in my mouth a little bit.

A lot of scenes were unnecessary and stupid, pointless attempts to add suspense or tension (the whole 'ice' scene and the scene following the ice scene in the car) and I was just not buying any of what "Splinter" was selling.

In addition, and this is plain silliness, the cover design sucks and makes it look like some suspense/drama starring Julia Roberts (aka "Sleeping with the Enemy). Check out the Canadian DVD case -- it's 100x better.

For my conclusion I may be judging "Splinter" a little tough, but due to the glowing reviews it got I was expecting something great. The two people I watched it with said it was `decent' and at the end of the day I cannot imagine it being any more than that.

4/10