Plot: 45 years after the original Godzilla was destroyed, a new one appears and begins to blow stuff up. In order to fight this new Godzilla, an anti-Godzilla weapon named "Kiryu" is built around the bones of the original Godzilla that died way back when.
Three years are spent putting togeather this weapon. (Where Godzilla went during all this time? Who knows.) ...Oh, yeah. And there's also some boring subplot revolving around some Mary Sue who accidentally caused somebody to be killed by Godzilla and becoming Kiryu's pilot and blah blah blah.
Right. So, right on the day Kiryu is finished, Godzilla just happens to show up. After probably the most boring fight in any Godzilla movie EVER, Godzilla runs away, and Kiryu goes on a rampage.
A big chunk of the movie is spent trying to fix Kiryu and stuff. A really BIG, looooooong boring chunk. I kinda tuned out around here, so I'll just skip ahead to the next fight.
Godzilla shows up again, and there's another battle, which ends with Godzilla being dumped into the ocean and running away. Righty now, onto my excessively bitey
Review: Grah. I didn't think it was possible, but there IS another Godzilla movie more mind numbingly boring then "Godzilla: Tokyo SOS". Coincidentally, the movie that exceeds it in boringness is also its direct predecessor.
The characters were annoying. Akane, the main character, is such a blatent Mary Sue that it made my blood boil. The other characters weren't as annoying as Akane, they were just... how shall we say... bland. They wasted too much time trying to develop them as well. They're already irritating and cliched, and the movie worsened this by trying to force these characters down my throat.
Kiryu (I won't call him Mechagodzilla, because he ain't the Mechagodzilla I grew up with and have grown to love) is annoying too... he looks cool, but really. The Kiryu wankage in this movie is excessive. The movie isn't even really about Godzilla, it's more about Mary Sue and Kiryu.
The fighting was okay... but compared to Tokyo SOS, GMK and Godzilla 2000, it pales in comparison. The first battle between Kiryu and Godzilla is more of a plot device then a real battle- Godzilla stands there, lets himself get shot at, and runs away. The fight was little more then to give Kiryu an excuse to go crazy. The second battle was fun to watch, but the Kiryu wankage ruined it for me. Godzilla doesn't live up to the standards set in the other movies- far from being an unstoppable force of nature, he just lets Kiryu beat the crap out of him, and only manages to hold his own by squeezing in the occasional dirty trick. Godzilla deserves better then to be treated as a mere plot device who can't hold his own in a fight without resorting to cheap, underhanded shots.
Overall, Godzilla against Mechagodzilla isn't very good. There's even MORE blah and even LESS boom in this movie then Tokyo SOS. I realize Toho is attempting to make Godzilla "serious", but it left me feeling cold and unfulfilled. You want a "serious" Godzilla movie? Watch "GMK: Giant monsters all out attack" and avoid this garbage. Overall, Godzilla against Mechagodzilla gets a measly two out of five. This movie reeks like a big, stinky pile of Godzilla doo-doo.