The Express is an "inspirational" biopic tale of Ernie Davis's life, depicting a warped reality of racial tension in the 1950's. Ernie Davis (Ron Brown), was born and raised in Pennsylvania before moving to New York, where he was recruited to play football for Syracuse University. The film follows Davis's trials and tribulations as he struggles with fitting into the predominantly white football team, and inadvertently becoming a voice in the Civil Rights Movement. He learns to deal with his closed-minded coach, Ben Shwartzwalder (Dennis Quaid), and eventually becomes the first African American to win the Heisman Trophy, an award given to the best college football player of the year.
 Ron Brown gives a winning performance portraying a calm and realistic Davis, albeit in a lacklustre tone. Dennis Quaid, however, provides the zest in the film, portraying Shwartzwalder as a coach transitioning from the old school of white supremacist thinking to the new school of racially equal thinking, much like the rest of America in this period of racial tensions. At times, though, the energy in Shwartzwalder's character tends to overshadow the real hero of the film, Davis, who occasionally gets sidelined as the film chooses to focus on the internal struggles playing out within Shwartzwalder. As the story shifts its focus from Davis to Shwartzwalder, the "inspirational" meaning behind the film is lost on the viewer, as the real hero and his grapplings concerning racism are forgotten for the mindlessly trivial problems of the coach.
 The cinematography somewhat redeems the film, however, with breathtaking scenes of a crisp, vividly coloured autumn in New York, and the rustic architectural charm of the campus in Syracuse University. The football games sprinkled generously throughout the movie were also very exciting, and football fan or not, you will be drawn to the sheer power and energy that the games possess.
  The film includes a scene where Syracuse goes to play a visiting match against West Virginia. When they arrive at the stadium, the racist fans of West Virginia attack the team for having black players. The scene is very intense, as it explores racial bigotry, but is also entirely untrue, for Syracuse had never played a game against West Virginia that year. This is a major historical inaccuracy, and creative license has been taken past the limit as the writers of the film manage to fabricate an entire football game with an aggressive audience.
 There are also a variety of other creative liberties taken throughout the film in order to enhance the dramatic racial tension in the football games. In another football game shown when Syracuse goes to play the Cotton Bowl Championships against the University of Texas, in which after Syracuse wins the game, a Texas player spit on Davis and called him the n-word. Players from the University of Texas dispute that scene, claiming that they just shook hands and peacefully walked off the field.
 The Express is a movie that entirely distorts history, and also shifts the focus of the story from the real hero, Davis, to his coach, Schwartzwalder. Creative license is taken much too far, and detracts from what would have been an inspiring biopic. The acting and cinematography are brilliant, but unfortunately is not enough to warrant a viewing of the film. If you're an avid football fan, you can go for the thrilling games, but otherwise it's recommended to keep your distance.