This has been my favorite film since I was probably 12 years old (about 10 years), and there are many reasons why.
  Christine, to start with, has everything. Drama, suspense, mystery, romance, and science fiction, to name the most common, and in all these avenues it's displayed in a satisfying and realistic way. The storyline is excellent, with many social twists and turns that are so real it's engaging. A lover's triangle, a lost cause (Arnie Cunningham) losing himself in something he can relate too and make definite progress on (quote: "For the first time in my life I've found something that's uglier than me, and I know I can fix her up."). He's extremely awkward around women, has very little confidence, but is highly intelligent and moral. He even somewhat looks like the late great Buddy Holly in the beggining (which makes since, sense Christine is a '50s automobile). When he finds something that can boost his confidence, he grabs it. It was no mistake that Christine chose him. He was the perfect guy for her to seduce into her sinister world.
  I'm one of those people that feels to a certain degree that the end justifies the means, but I also think it's good in a story to let a person decide for themselves what the ending will be, since we're all different. Christine fits that. The ending can be taken 2 ways: She comes back, or she's dead. My view is that Christine finally died. It can be viewed in the movie that her speedometer is continuously running backwards instead of forwards (which Stephen King did in the novel as well, and said that his intention was to imply that the car was constantly getting younger instead of older. It's appearance follows suit throughout the film). But at the final scene in Darnell's garage, Christine's speedometer is unmistakably seen as dropping past 000000 to 999999, and she is completely demolished shortly after that. It could be implied there that the 999999 symbolized her death was coming. In this way Arnie served a purpose. By his death, Christine lost her purpose for living, and that rendered her extinction. And she was in such shambles at the end that her coming back to life is almost inconceivable (and even though that piece of chrome slightly creaks at the end, the way it moves and sounds symbolizes weakness and age; to me it was her "last twitch"). So there's a wonderful moral to the story: simply put, even the most negative of outcomes can be used to produce a positive result.
  The soundtrack to this movie was brilliant. The movie was excellent to start with; the score amplified it and gave it even MORE magic. Alan Howarth has always done terrific work with scores for motion pictures, as well as John Carpenter. The both of them I truly consider to be at the genius level.
  So yeah, this film I would HIGHLY recommend. I think I've seen it 20 times over the past ten years, and I'm STILL not sick of it (and I rarely watch a movie more than once unless I REALLY like it). I would ALSO recommend that you read the book first, though. There's something about reading the novel itself, and then seeing it "come to life" on screen. Even though the movie can't bring everything to life (not enough time), you have the whole story from the book fresh in your mind while you're watching it, which makes the movie much better. Watching the movie BEFORE reading the book tends to have a dissatisfying experience (I find).
  Favorite novel by Stephen King also. He's another genius.
  Long-a-dee-o-so!