I appreciate one has to be Scroogelike to carp at this spirited production, magnificently conducted by William Christie and beautifully sung by so many talented and sparkling singers. But the very excellence of the musical performance--historically correct, idiomatic, deeply versed in the style of the period and the special pathos and nobility of Handel's genius--is a standing critique of Mr. McVicar's trashy and ignorant direction, with its gross and vulgar sensationalism.
I remember Christie's beautiful semi-staged production of Charpentier's Acteon, which dramatized the sexiness of Diana's nymphs bathing in their pool by having them each stick a naked foot out from beneath their gorgeous Fortuny gowns into the imaginary water. You didn't have to have the special fetish of a Pushkin to feel the frisson. So why we have to have the pawing, the sexual mounting, the playing with perversity, and the wallowing in blood is beyond me.
I do understand the impulse to choreograph so much of the action of this opera. The music invites it; the stage tradition calls for it. So why did the director and choreographer make no effort to study the performance tradition--we know a lot about the choreography of Baroque opera-ballets by now--and try at least to incorporate its spirit into their routine?
Danielle de Niese presents a special problem, of course. She is so talented, not just as a singer but also as a dancer and a comedienne--and she is so filled with irrepressible animal magnetism--that it is hard to resist every conceivable excess if you are directing her, especially since it is probably hard to make her keep her clothes on. But one should let Handel be ones guide. He understood desire, but his grave nobility gilded everything in decorum.
Yes, I heard the roar from the Glyndebourne audience, and I believe in the market. If you can make Handel sell, more power to you. But Christie made Charpentier sell with just a naked foot--and in Brooklyn. Do we really have to wallow to make this magnificent music-drama live in the 21st century?
For myself, I would rather just have a CD of this performance.