Race Plagarism Revisited: "I, Robot"

Reviewed by: Matthew C. Stelly

 In 1993, I came up with a concept called "race plagiarism" to describe the lack of creativity of today's crop of novelists, as well as TV and movie scriptwriters. In a nutshell, I see in recent movies the lack of true creativity and instead, the borrowing from African American history. These people take actual events and then change the color, the species and the setting of a "story" and attempt to pawn it off as original thought. Recent examples include "The Planet of the Apes," "Alien Nation," "Star-Gate," and "Alien vs. Predator.

 Joining this list is a new member of the "Race Plagiarism Model," Will Smith's recently released, "I, Robot."

 This movie attempts to conceal (and as a result, reveals) the underlying plot and insinuations regarding American race relations. Take Uncle Tom's Cabinet, mix in a little of Sam Greenlee's "Spook Who Sat by the Door" and add a little bit of the historical realities of Nat Turner's slave rebellion and a pinch of John Brown's logic (just before his raid on Harper's Ferry) and you've got the essential recipe for this movie.

 The movie reminds one of the days of slavery where there was an over-dependency on the enslaved by those in power. In this movie, the "slave" is the robot, who is trained to obey three commands: These commands, similar to the "Black Codes" that were passed to control black people are, as follows:

 1. A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.

 2. A robot must obey orders given it by man beings except where such orders would conflict with the first law.

 3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the first or second law.

 As was the case during slavery, the enslaved began to outnumber the "master" (remember: the "negro" was made and manufactured in America), and the people in control grew wary. If the robots did not do their job, they were summarily destroyed. Not with lynch ropes, but by being decommissioned.

 Those robots who were banned (put out of commission) began to come together and as such, planned to rebel against the system. The result, as in any instance where large groups of entities are systematically exploited: a well-planned revolution.

 One robot tells humans, during the bloody revolt, "You cannot be trusted with your own survival. To ensure your future, some freedoms must be surrendered." Aren't these nearly the exact words of your current President? And in a nation where the people are supposed to be in power, does this statement by a robot ring a bell: "The created must sometimes protect the creator, sometimes against his will." Are we, the people, even now, being "protected against our will" even though it's supposed to be OUR government?

 And earlier, when one of the `overseers' is chastising a robot, he utters, "You are so like children. We must protect you from yourselves." This is exactly what our ancestors were told on the plantation even as those in power built the most powerful economy in the world - on our backs.

 The racism historically heaped upon the backs of blacks was personified in Smith's character. HE was the one made to look "prejudiced against Robots." In fact, the robots protecting the system, along with Smith and an Uncle Tom robot named "Sonny," defeat the resistance - as was the case with Denmark Vesey and Gabriel Prosser revolts in 18th century America. If you don't recognize these names, look them up.

 The fact is, even though the movie is set in 2035, the creators of the robots see an need for these robots to have human faces, and yet the robots are white. And speaking of color, note that Smith, being black and the police chief, also being black, never mention race a single time? We can deduce, from this, that the scriptwriter was white (they are ones of want to depict th future as being one of "colorblindness" although their race has always been color-CONSCIOUS).

 Another piece of evidence indicating the race  (or consciousness) of the writer? Not a single sister. Not one black woman. Smith's female colleague is a white woman. But, true to form she helped "the man" to create these robots, but then turns on him when she finds out that several of the robots have `revolted.' Check out corporate America and who does the bidding for that Old Boys Network at the top. And since there is no black wife physically in this movie, no girlfriend of color, this means that all of Smith's heroics are aimed at saving who? The white girl.

 Just as assimilationist blacks are marched out and made "leaders" by the white media, this robot "Sonny" becomes the leader of the resistance. At the movie's end he stands atop a hill looking down at them. He (having sold out and who has human characteristics) will define their future and direct their lives for them. Look around Omaha; doesn't this sound familiar?

 Finally at the end of the movie, Sonny, the robot makes a statement that represents the epitome of the true slave: "Now that I have fulfilled my purpose, I don't know what to do." Smith tells him, "I guess you'll have to find your way like the rest of us, Sonny ... I guess that's what it means to be free."

 The question is, will black folks, not just robots, be FREE in the year 2035?