This thriller is full of very strong performances.  Of very special note is Brittany Murphy.  On the DVD is Brittany Murphy's audition, which is nothing less than searing; some of the most powerful acting I have ever seen.  Even if you don't watch the movie, watch the audition.  The audition performance is considerably more intense than the same scene in the movie because it has no cuts, no breaks.  It is just one 5 minute long take.  It is like going 5 minutes without blinking.  Powerful stuff.  One can envision the producers getting the funding to complete the movie on the basis of this audition alone.
Actually all the actors are very good, Michael Douglas, Famke Janssen, who plays Michael Douglas's wife and Skye McCole Bartusiak who is their daughter are all attractive and winning.  Skye McCole Bartusiak as the daughter deserves special note as she imbues that role with a sweet intelligence.  The good guys are attractive and we care about them.  Sean Bean, the bad guy, has a scary intensity sort similar to Robert Shaw of Jaws fame.  
The problem with Don't Say a Word is its plot.  Sean Bean's character is both a mad dog killer and a cool, calculating criminal mastermind.  On the one hand, Bean kills the one man who can tell him where to find what he is looking for ... on a subway platform in front of dozens of witnesses.  (Talk about a dumb move!)  On the other he plans a split-second bank heist of considerable complexity.  On the one hand he kills a kidnap victim while the ransomer (Oliver Platt) has yet to do what Bean wants.  (Bean was bored?  Didn't care?  Who knows?)  On the other he plots another complex kidnapping and manipulation of the Michael Douglas character.  Add this to other characters acting particularly stupid (Jennifer Esposito plays a cop who does not believe in calling for backup until it is too late for the backup to come in a timely manner/ do any good.) and the movie loses us as it piles improbability on improbability.  Too bad that all those fine performances don't add up to much.