Situations and characters in this comedic tale are peculiar yet believable, especially if you know anything about the CIA. The casting, acting and direction is superb, making these absurd characters and their actions seem perfectly plausible.

Some films are so unusual, they require multiple viewings to understand the writing genius and acting talent that made them. This is one of those. Think of "Raising Arizona" and "Dr. Strangelove." Now put those together. That's almost what this film is.

This comedy is perversely dark and so hauntingly humorous that it feels creepy.
The "creepy factor" is enhanced by cinematic contrasts. Bright lighting and "sanitary" suburban / corporate cleanliness of most scenes, opposed to the murky insidious actions of the plot. Brad Pitt plays a transparently inept dupe... the perfect foil to Malkovich's opaque-black character. (Emphasis on MAL-kovich) Brad is like a serving of low-fat vanilla ice cream, while Malkovich is a topping of salty Tobasco on top.

You can see that all the actors enjoyed their roles and were fully "invested". They make real movie magic here; not the visual trickery of Computer Generated effects, but the stunning interplay of experienced actors bringing vision and life to a twisted peculiar plot. They all take turns leading and supporting throughout. This cast ACTS together like seasoned Jazz musicians PLAY together.

The pace is never slow and every scene is important, so you have to pay attention. That's hard to do if you're stuck in the theater with clueless corporate lackies and dimwitted "twitters."

This film bears, or even requires several viewings to appreciated much of the humor. It helps if you watch it alone and undisturbed or with a like-minded movie fan. Still, it made my stomach hurt the first time I saw it in the theater... and that was under less than ideal conditions.

I had the misfortune of first seeing it in the theater with a bunch of "bowling pins." They just didn't get it. My "dates" for the evening kept looking at me like I was the one who was crazy. They felt embarrassed that I laughed so much and they couldn't understand why. I felt embarrassed to be in the same room with people who were so torpid. Though in a way, that made it even funnier. Really... I cried.

After the movie, we went to a restaurant / bar where we ate and talked about the movie. During that dinner, I learned something important...

This comedy is a litmus test for the viewer's social and political understanding. You can appreciate it solely for the minds that could conceive such a story, or the multiple talents that cooperated so flawlessly to realize the film. However, to really appreciate the humor, you have to know something about people and the way the world really works.

If you are not aware of how the CIA or other "intelligence" agencies operate,
if you don't know how some of the people who work for those agencies think,
if you don't realize just how stupid, shallow, vain and greedy some people can be,
...then the heady humor of this masterwork will evaporate into the aether before you can savor it.

I can recommend this film on multiple levels and for numerous reasons, but mostly for these two:
ONE--- PERENNIAL LAUGHS.
IF you "get it" you will laugh every time you see it for years. It will even make you laugh aloud for days afterwards at odd times  when you just happen to think about it.

TWO---LITMUS TEST.
IF someone does not "get it" then he / she needs to stop watching commercial television altogether. If anyone you know does not laugh at this movie, you cannot trust their opinions about any political or social issue. Their world-views and intellects have been severely attenuated. Really... I'm not kidding.

This comedy is a rare and exotic concoction... a unique recipe that only a few outliers will grasp. If you are one of them, it deserves a permanent place in your entertainment collection. If you are not one of them, buy a copy anyway. Someday, hopefully BEFORE criminal myopic madmen destroy us all, everyone will see.