Can you figure this out for me?  I have a hard time making sense of it.  About three weeks ago, it was that part of the night when every guy is in his boxers channel surfing, hoping something good is on that might take the edge off before he goes to bed. Some cinematic equivalent of comfort food. Preferably I could eat comfort food while I watch it. Let's see--cable shows you about 1000 movies a night, and you have already seen or don't want to see about....998 of them.  This was just such a night, so I turn on the cable movie demand channel.  What do I rent?  "Stick It".  My reasoning being, and don't hate me too much for this, ladies, but at least I get to look at finely  toned female bodies for an hour and a half even if the movie is a total bust.  Why not?  So, I don't end up watching ten minutes, I watch the entire thing.  I think, how did Jeff Bridges, who has a reputation in Hollywood, right?--how did he sign on to this obviously over-the-top tween flop?  He must have a mortgage to pay, or he wants a new Porsche or something, and then at all the L.A. hot spots with Harrison Ford and Jack Nicholson staring across the bar at him, he can just swallow hard and laugh it off.

  That being said, something strange happened.  Two nights later, I am at the same point where its super late, and the desperation level is soaring for a movie I can watch and be totally brain dead and just enjoy.  Okay, I rent "Stick It"--again.  After the second time, I'm like sweating, taking my pulse, and saying to myself, what the hell is my problem?  I just saw "Stick It" twice, and the cherry on top of the sundae is, I paid for it.  Hmm.  I pride myself on being a kind of cinematic snob, so this kind of devastated me in a very small way.

  Alright.  Three days later.  My girlfriend goes to the video store, and she asks me, what should I rent.  I guess I wasn't thinking too hard, but off the top of my head, without really realizing what I was saying, I call out, "Stick It." Why couldn't I have said, "Doctor Zhivago", or some Hitchcock movie, or some French film nobody has ever heard of? INstead, as if from my subconscious, I choose, unforced and out of my own free will, "Stick It".  Strange.  So I watch it AGAIN.  This time I really whooped it up. I'm laughing at all the jokes, as dumb as they are, and I even am touched by the quasi-emotional parts.  I look at my girlfriend with this big s--t-eating grin on my face and say, "So how'd ya like it?"  She looks at me and says, "Kind of stupid." I say, "You're right about that," but inside some part of me is screaming "What?" like Faith Hill at the Grammys, or the Country Music Awards I guess.

  So I thought about it.  I have to admit that some part of me likes, or at least does not despise, or does not mind watching, at any rate, this over-the-top tween flop, as I described it before. Why?  One reason is simple as simple can get--Missy Peregrym.  This girl looks about 6 '3, but anyway, she is about twenty feet too tall for any kind of career in gymnastics.  However, her lithe, athletic, muscular but exquisitely feminine body makes for some savory viewing for any male near the TV screen, and that makes the movie tick along much more smoothly.  I don't know if she has the emotive power or artistic flare of Cate Blanchett or Meryl Streep, but quite honestly, neither of those two are anywhere near as satisfying to behold in a skin-hugging leotard as this girl, so really  Missy gets the nod here.  I first thought Bridges gave a miserably predictable and canned performance as Vickerman, but that was again my first impression.  After my third time watching the film, I thought, that's just how a coach would act.  He has just the right combination of tough-minded fairness and dignity, without being effusive or showy in his obvious affection for Haley.  And this movie is kind of funny.  I admit it.  Nikki Soo Hoo's facial expressions encompass perfectly the look of someone hit by a frying pan; in any case, they are absolutely vaudvillian and priceless.  The soundtrack also keeps the movie moving all rather seamlessly; a nice blend of hip-hop and even Adam Ant's "Goody Two Shoes".  The only real problem is the end of the movie, in which all the girls protest the judges.  That kind of stretches things to the point that you're going, "It's 1:30 am and I'm half-asleep, but you can't expect me to believe that." What I'm trying to say is that this movie turned out to be a lot more fun that I ever thought it would.  You'll see--wait until its midnight or somewhere near that time, you're exhausted, and you can't seem to endure watching E! show another Paris Hilton story or Britney sans underpants, Jay Leno and Letterman in some stupid inane conversation with some lame actor you don't care about, and Harry Potter and Eric Roberts dominating the cable channels. Before you know it, you're watching "Stick It".  For as many times as I've rented it, I should have slapped the 21.99--is it that much?--down and just bought the damn thing.