At the time this movie came out,  I went to see it, didn't care for it, but couldn't quite figure out why.  After seeing it again recently, it hit me.  This movie is patronizing and in a subtle way, quite racist.  The story set up is so unquestionable that one is left with only one conclusion - that Sam Jackson's character was justified and hence, should go free.  There is no doubt at the beginning of the movie that those two potbellied, white-trash looking guys raped his daughter in the back of their stars and bars pickup truck (I bet they were also into NASCAR).  Never mind that they didn't get a fair trial or that Jackson shot a deputy while taking his revenge on them.  But, you know, 'if it was my daughter, I'd do the same thing', says the deputy - so Jackson is forgiven and the jury acquits - especially after hearing the defense attorney's impassioned plea to picture the little girl as white.  And of course, everybody has known each other since they were kids - that's the way it is in these small towns of the south you know...  Oh, and don't forget the KKK is in there to threaten the white defense attorney's sexy wife, child and friends.  And, there's a sexy, bleeding heart, white college girl who comes to town to help out with the defense (but also to create a half baked love triangle for Matthew McConaughey,  Sandra Bullock and Ashley Judd - what beautiful white actors!)  There is more, but basically the black actors are in passive roles - the outcome of the trial is in white hands all the way, the prosecution, defense, judge and jury.  (Can one really say that a condemned black man would be acquitted in such circumstances?)  Samuel Jackson's character sits in jail most of the movie.  Charles Dutton's sheriff basically does his dutiful best for the white cast.  A Time to Kill doesn't really say anything meaningful about the conflict of racism.  So, what story would I have liked to see?  First,  eliminate the Bullock character completely.  Then have the script leave in doubt as to who raped Jackson's little girl.  That would give Charles Dutton's sheriff something to investigate, after his first suspects have been killed by Jackson's character.  When the Sheriff discovers that some other white guys raped the little girl, then he has a problem and a major part of the story hinges on how he wants to handle the situation.  Will he choose to let the court know about his discovery which would probably lead to a guilty verdict or will he keep silent on the chance that Jackson might go free, knowing that Jackson killed two innocent men?  And who are the actual rapists?  Are they local (members of the KKK maybe, a member of the prosecution)?  Does the defense attorney know the truth?  Does he try to hide it in the name of winning the case?  How will the discovery affect the town after the verdict is rendered?  That would have been a film to watch and would have generated a lot of discussion centering around the question of 'What should the sheriff have done?'  I know there are a lot of people out there who like this movie.  I mean no disrespect - in fact -  I would recommend watching the movie again - keeping my POV in mind.  Perhaps you will see the potential of what this movie could have been.