First off, I was pleasantly surprised at Topher Grace's acting skills.  When the movie was just starting I was thinking to myself, 'this looks good, but couldn't they have cast someone other than him?'  Well, I was wrong--he did a great job, maybe "That 70's Show" makes everyone seem annoying & no fault of his own.

Louise is a middle aged woman who just seems sort of lost.  It's clear she is desperate to find something worthwhile in her life, something to give it all meaning.  Enter a letter with a familiar name from her past.

Who among us that have lost someone hasn't wished for a second chance?  I find we often cling to things lost, forgetting what we presently have.  In Louise's case what she presently has is really just a form of holding onto something else, her past with her ex husband.  She says something to the effect that, 'maybe that's what's wrong with people--everyone just moves on...'

So you think it will be another spin on the May/December romance, but this one was crisp and kept one interested.  I love how this film unabashedly showed the difference in the generations, F. Scott's use of slang, sloppy t-shirt and cheap looking bracelets versus Louise's classic dress, flowing hair and poignant questions.  With the generational differences I kept expecting him to say something callous and hurtful to her, and I wanted to protect her from it, but instead I watched with wonder as he showed a keen sensitivity to her and said things that are profound, given the image he protrayed.  In one scene he told her (paraphrased), 'I woke up this morning and you were 6 inches away from me and I was blinded--your beauty blinded me...'  There is more to this kid than he appears to be.

For her it's a mystical chance to re do something in her life unfinished, for him it's just the awe of someone like her being interested in someone like him.  It's definately one to watch in the array of mediocre films that keep getting pumped out.  I only wish the ending had more closure, so I am going to read the book.