After a 25 year hiatus, another Clive Cussler novel gets the big screen treatment. Being a fan of Cussler and having missed the earlier movie based on his novel Raise the Titanic, I was looking forward to seeing Sahara on DVD. After seeing it, my feelings are somewhat mixed. On the one hand, there were some things I really liked about the movie and on the other hand, a lot of things that I didn't. But most of the gripes, I think, stem from comparing the movie to the books. I agree that it is difficult for me to look at the movie objectively but one thing is sure for me. This movie does not measure up to most of the movies in the genre.

Mathew McConaughey makes a better-than-average Dirk Pitt, which was a casting choice that I was not so sure about when it was first announced. Steve Zahn, although funny, lacked Al Giordano's (the book version, I mean) charm and cool-as-ice-under-pressure bravado and wisecracking nature. William H. Macy, who plays the part of Admiral (Ret.) Jim Sandecker, just did not look like the tough-as-nails, manipulative and charming (although, to be fair, he is always smoking his trademark cigars) NUMA chief portrayed in the book.

The story, based on the book, had to sacrifice a lot in the transition to the big screen and this wasn't such a good thing. I admit it will be difficult to bring the whole book to the screen but I think it could have been done better. In the hands of a more talented and experienced director, this movie could have been as timeless and exciting as the movie that revitalized the Action Adventure genre, Raider of the Lost Ark.

None of the action sequences were what would be called spectacular or thrilling and since they were all pretty short sequences, rarely had time to build to a breathtaking finish. In this age of jaw-dropping special effects and flashy explosion-filled Summer Blockbusters, Sahara actually looks quite tame and mild. The only sequence that stood out was the "Panama" sequence. But this sequence comes pretty early in the movie and by the end of the movie I was wondering why they didn't save the best for last. To be fair, some things, like blowing up Sandecker's boat, were classic Pitt and Al. And some of the lines, like during the Panama sequence "It didn't work the first time" and Al discarding enough hardware and ammunition to start a small war during the desert capture, really do justice to their sense of humour.

Another thing that annoyed me was that some of the more spectacular scenes from the book, namely using the crashed plane to cross the Sahara, were underplayed. Some of the more witty dialogues and exchanges between Pitt and Al as they make the crossing were also left out. There were a lot of instances where I thought Al or Pitt was going to make a witty quip or sarcastic remark but was disappointed and left me thinking that Al would never let a chance like that go without making a sarcastic remark. If Cussler had in some way contributed to the screenplay, I think we might have seen a much better movie.

I can understand why Cussler, and his huge fan-base, were unhappy with this movie. Spielberg and the Indiana Jones series had set the bar pretty high for Action Adventure movies and with movies like The Mummy and Pirates of the Caribbean following with satisfyingly entertaining additions to the genre, Sahara looks pretty out of place and low on the totem pole of Action Adventures.

The DVD contains a few extra features including some deleted scenes, an audio commentary by Director Breck Eisner and Actor/Executive Producer Matthew McConaughey.