Where do I begin? First, let's start on the predictability of the
story. I could have predicted the bones of the entire story after watching the first five minutes of the movie.

Could there be any more Western clich&eacute;s? Let's see: Pregnant by a dead
husband, instructing someone to boil the water when the baby's born,
the stranger you're married to has to deliver the baby, the greenhorn
woman who, in the words of the rather spiteful child she's caring for,
"can't do anything useful." Oh, and let's not forget the complete
unbelievability of having a just-born baby and his mother fully dressed
and completely free of any blood or bodily fluids within just minutes
after the birth. Boy, I wish I'd been able to invoke that clich&eacute; after
my daughter was born.

I also slapped my forehead several times at the complete idiocy of some
of the scenes. First, any idiot who's ever ridden a horse knows you
don't go chasing after it, like Heigl's first husband did. Let's see,
it's not carrying the burden of a man, and you don't even have a lasso
if you do catch up with it. D'oh. The man's handled horses halfway
across the country and he doesn't know to get a little corn or sweet
feed or a carrot and lure the horse over to him?? Next, having Missy
fire the gun during the whiteout. Okay, I can see the logic there, but
what does she do? Stands there with the *door open* in the middle of a
howling blizzard. Hello? Can you say, letting out all the heat *and*
probably making the fire go out?? And last but not least, when the barn
that's about 50 feet away from the house is burning down, Clark tells
Matty to stay in the house with the children. Hello again? If you're
that close to a burning building, get OUT of the building, in case the
one you're in gets set ablaze! And while you're at it, start trucking
out your valuables from the house, in case.

I simply could not see people with the experience these people were
supposed to have had making these kind of errors. It really threw me
out of the story.

There's several glaring errors in the continuity as well.  When Heigl's caught in the rain, you can see a bra strap outline under her blouse.  Bras weren't yet invented.  She would have been wearing a corset.  Chrome chains are shown on a wagon, but that technology wasn't available yet, either.  And, best of all, I'm still puzzling over how Clark left on a horse to go get Matty at the end, but magically ended up with a team and a buckboard when he returned home.

The character of Matty was all right, probably the best in the film
(which isn't saying much). Clark, however, was two-dimensional and
pious to the point of nausea. I realize it's a Christian film, but do
they have to drive the point home with a sledgehammer? The little girl
was so predictable in everything she did, it was unreal. Gee, she's a
brat. Gee, she wears pants, because, of course, every little girl
without a mom becomes a horrible tomboy! And gee, of course, she hates
Matty, until Matty makes her a dress, at which point, she does the
predictable 180.

I also saw absolutely no reason these two would have suddenly fallen
for each other. There was simply no character development along that
line. One day, Matty's barely speaking to Clark, and the next -- how
droll! -- she's pushing him over in the garden and he's tickling her.
It's almost like I heard the director say, "Okay, you're in love now!"
Totally unbelievable.

This isn't family entertainment. We can think of a lot more
entertaining things to do than watch this dreck. Family entertainment shouldn't be a catch phrase for 'boring as already chewed sugar free gum'.