I don't watch many movies anymore. Rarely does anything look interesting enough to me that I can be persuaded into the effort, minimal as it may be, to devote a couple of hours and my attention to a much hyped feature.

For years I have been hearing references to "The Big Lebowski" in various forms without even realizing it. The John Goodman line about "proper nomenclature" struck me right between the eyes as I knew I had innocently been subjected to that reference more than a handful of times.

I really never had any interest in the film when it was released. It sounded fairly idiotic and wasn't heralded as a masterpiece by those that get paid to steer me away from making the tremendous effort required to enjoy a movie.

It wasn't until years after the fact that I began to hear more and more people chastise me subsequent to a period of shock and disbelief when I informed them that I had never seen the film. I didn't want to. The same people that seemed to be enfatuated with "Lebowski" were those same people that reveled in using their pinky finger to mimic Mike Meyers' character in that dreadful "shagalicious" detective bore. Flavor-of-the-month-hipster films with trendy catch phrases and temporarily memorable characters spawned from stereotypes or outlandishness get top billing on my list of "Must Avoid At All Cost" films.

"Lebowski" jumps right into what I feared most and I nearly regretted allocating effort for this endeavor as we meet Goodman's character, an amalgamation of hypocrisy as defined primarily by his apparent "neo-con" delivery. The bizzare pedophilic latino as portrayed by Turturro. The heartless "fat cat" that shares his name with the title character - a man that is diametrically opposite as a fully functioning, but decidedly and intentionally sub-functional, ambitionless, cashless, borderline bum (not proper nomenclature, I know). Other than sitting, walking, taking a bath, drinking, or smoking a joint - Lebowski is rarely seen doing anything himself at any point - he doesn't even bowl in a movie that is set predominately in a bowling alley and is by all accounts, Lebowski's only actual social activity.

Within fifteen minutes, I am already thinking- "Oh grand, another pointless movie posing as satire with a bunch of cartoonish characters that will inevitably leave you trying to figure out what the point of the movie is".

So, every time something happens, a word is spoken, I'm putting meaning to it.

Goodman tells his buddy Donny to "shut the **** up" every time he even tries to simply join the conversation, yet Goodman creates a monumental scene in the cafe about fighting in a war to protect the freedoms of expression and speech and how he won't be stifled. He lectures on "proper nomenclature" for asians, yet can't help but slip into improper nomenclature when his guard is down. He's a jew by marriage, practicing out of convenience, but goes to great lengths to let everyone know how devout his faith is - even if its fundamental tenets take a back seat to bowling.

Lebowski speaks with other characters employing dialogue that he picks up from others in completely different contexts (ala Bush's speech on agression early in the film while viewing TV). His interactions with nearly every character of authority paints him as the ultimate pacifist, a throwback hippy fighting the fascists, yet his whole life-altering debacle that is the substance of the film is born out of a conflict that he chooses to escalate - and does so with misguided direction in search of retribution.

On and on it goes - nuanced interactions that I've already decided must mean something more than what is spoken or what happens, so I had better pay attention if I want to make this effort worth anything at all.

Of course, buried in it all, the depth of stereotypes and embellishments bestowed upon Goodman's character in particular, I miss one crucial component of the character - the eternal search for meaning in everything. He's on the right track, but he's always off-the-mark. Meanwhile, Lebowski seeks to find almost no meaning in anything - he simply wants to exist - preferrably, happily so.

"Once in a while you get shown the light, in the strangest of places if you look at it right."

Lebowski is making no effort to understand his predicament, much less resolve it, while Goodman is in overdrive with theories that lead to more chaos. Ultimately, not only is the meaning of his predicament not what it seems, it is debatable if there is any meaning whatsoever. And when the credits rolled, following Sam Elliot's departing monologue, I had felt that I had in some ways been duped into playing the part of Jonh Goodman - one that we all play as mostly good natured studies in hypocrisy and illusions that seek to make ourselves understand things that aren't "learnable" per se - while the solution, the understanding, can be found in the dissimilarly flawed character of Lebowski - there isn't necessarily understanding through defined, sustained effort, simply moments of clarity in life that help you get through it.

Of course, I'm sure that nearly everyone that has watched this film takes away something completely different. When you throw down the gauntlet early and let the audience know that the plot is more or less a set-up to provide the characters room enough to promote subtle messages, you risk losing the war when the audience misses the point or objects to it. When there are either an incalculable number of points, or depending on the perspective, no point at all - and that's the point - well, you're at least trying to make my effort worthwhile.