The package is simple enough with just the DVD in a clear plastic package.  Later, I found out there are printable "U-Print" PDF documents on the DVD, which is convenient but it would have been nice to have had a printed manual anyway.  The producers thoughtfully included the installation files for Acrobat Reader for MacOS (on both Intel and PowerPC) and Windows on the DVD.

Also, I thought the capability of viewing this information in several formats (video iPod, straight DVD and computer) a nice feature.

As I don't own a video iPod, I inserted the disk into my DVD player only to hear a strange clacking sound.  I'm not sure what was happening, but as I didn't want to break my player, I ejected the DVD; re-inserting caused the same thing to happen again.  When I moved it to my laptop's DVD player, I had no problems.  I'm not sure what caused the problem, but it's worth pointing out.

On to the content.  I grew up speaking French but lost fluency as I grew older so I was really interested in polishing any latent skills.  I don't know why I was expecting something a bit different--along the lines of a full grammatical instruction--but within a few minutes of starting to watch the DVD, I discovered it was going to be an introductory course or what I call "tourist French."

I wasn't terribly disappointed though because the lessons are clear and easy to follow.  Within a few moments, all those now forgotten-used phrases of my youth came trickling back.  There are ten lessons in all, starting with Greetings then Introductions in lessons one and two respectively through lesson 10 (Emergency & Pharmacy).  The tutor's voice is gentle and the French speakers who speak the lesson's example dialog, although corny, are pleasant to hear.

The DVD does cover some grammatical principles in a light, fast review after most lessons and in a more in-depth review after the first five and the last five lessons.  I found these somewhat inadequate although I can understand the reasoning.  This is, after all, a first-step introduction to tourists.

In summary, I'll give this a three-and-a-half star review because I was expecting something more profound, the weird problem I had playing it in my regular DVD player, no printed manual to, and the light grammatical content.  But (in the positive) also because as these things go, this is a well-produced multimedia introduction to the language, along with the ability to view the content on different platforms.