<span class="tiny"> Length:: 1:09 Mins

</span>In this video, my 4 1/2 year old gives her reactions to the DVD "Hermie: Antonio Meets His Match".

Here's my review:

This DVD is ok, but not great.  We've seen a handful of DVD's from the Hermie series, and I generally find them to be entertaining to our girls and carry a good message that I can applaud.  One thing I love about the Hermie series is that prayer is always a central key to the plot.  I especially appreciate that prayer is shown to be not only submitting requests to God, but listening and receiving guidance and encouragement from Him as well. However, as is the case with most children's DVD's, I think at times the take-away message is not as biblically robust as I would like to see.

Antonio Meets His Match was no exception to this assessment.  It kept my girls entertained, encouraged treating others with kindness regardless of their actions toward us, and included prayer as an essential element.  My only disappointment was the somewhat weak presentation of the requirements of the biblical mandate of Luke 10:27, the scripture the story sets forth as its foundation.  The command to "Love your neighbor as you love yourself" is set in the context of the parable of the Good Samaritan.  Reducing the message of this scripture to "be nice, even to the annoying guy" seems to be falling short.  The way the story plays out, Antonio's "love" for his neighbor is scarcely evident until his final act of "heroism".  But even that act (saving his annoying neighbor Angus from an unruly frog) comes at no great sacrifice to Antonio.  He states clearly that the frog posed no real threat, and at the beginning of the movie we see him subdue the same frog, seemingly for sport.  Although Angus was frightened, and is subsequently so grateful that the relationship with Antonio is repaired, this depiction is a long way from demonstrating the humility and self-sacrifice implored in the quoted scripture.  Yes, this is "just" a children's DVD...but theology matters, even for kids.

This review copy was courtesy of BookSneeze.com and this opinion is my own.