McCartney: "For a long time people have been saying to me, 'When can we get a hold of that video?' or 'Is that video available? Is that released?' And I just sort of thought, 'No ...' I was always a little bit like, 'One day, yeah, I'll do it. Don't worry.' But then a couple of guys got in touch with me and said, 'Look, we think it's time. We want to work on it. Let us put forward a proposal of what we would do for you to look at.'

"It took a long time to put together. They started cleaning it all up, and then they cleaned the sound mixes up and then they started showing me, and that was like, 'Jeez, I've never heard it like this. I've never seen it like this.' So I started to get excited and I fell for the whole idea. I just said, 'Go to it boys, let's do it.'"

I just read that previous Reuters interview excerpt above today--oh how telling, and so sad. Imagine how different and improved the outcome would have been if better suited guys had contacted McCartney? Maybe for instance the people behind The Who's "The Kids Are Alright" dvd, or Disney's video restoration experts (totally unlikely as that would be). But, you sure don't see Disney chopping Dumbo or Snow White into widescreen when they weren't done that way originally. Should be no different with these videos. If they wanted to offer widescreen versions as a bonus, that would have been fine as long as the original was there also. Macca probably would have "fell for" that whole idea too had it been presented to him.

You also don't see Disney--or basically anyone else--releasing a 5.1 dvd in DTS only! What is up with that decision (along with Help! unfortunately)??? Everything else I buy has both Dolby 5.1 and DTS, and if it only has one choice, it's always been Dolby. More people have Dolby overall because it's been available longer than DTS in home systems. I have a sweet top-of-the-line 5.1 receiver from right before DTS came along--why should we all have to buy a new system AGAIN to hear these so-called "wonderful" remixes? No good reason at all these are only DTS.

It's pretty funny, and typical, seeing all these 5-star "perfect" ratings for a Macca release, just because it's a Macca release. They go on to say there are numerous things that are wrong with this set--but it's still 5-star perfect?! Get real.

This set so easily could have been perfect--and should have been. ALL the videos made, provide them in original format, end of story = everyone happy. Volume 2, or a larger set, with the complete live material and TV shows. The resources were freely available to them to do it. Yet another example of long-time fans being screwed over in favor of Johnny-come-lately flavor of the day appeal. Another HUGE wasted opportunity for McCartney to do a dvd right for a change. Seems that will never happen unfortunately, unless better people approach him for projects.