Since many reviewers have already outlined the plot, I'll just briefly mention that three women plot to steal money that is slated to be shredded at the Federal Reserve.  The actual plan to steal the money is definitely over the top.  Some convoluted scam involving lock swaps and keys that would never be trusted to just one person, let alone these people!  And the plan is never fully drawn out, you just see the women implement it.  But this is not a heist film like Oceans' 11, so a clever Hollywood conceit is fine for making a comedy work.

Overall, the movie is mindless entertainment, although it does suffer from a few noticeable flaws. The most glaring issue I had watching this film was that only two of the main characters were really introduced. Jackie Truman (Katie Holmes) is only given the most cursory examination, and you never really find out anything more about her than the fact that she's poor and she's air-headed, but supposedly not a druggie. The other main characters are introduced in much greater detail, which gives a more complete picture of their motives and explains their willingness to risk everything for the big payoff. At one point in the movie the characters are sitting around a table discussing why they want the money, and Jackie's only reason is, "Why not?" In contrast, one of the other women is an ex-socialite (Diane Keaton) whose excessive lifestyle landed her in the poor house, and the other is a lower-middle-class single mother (the Queen) who wants to send her children to better schools. In a film solely about crime, conveying motives is an extremely important detail. I admit it - I love Queen Latifah.  She plays comedic roles very well, and is just a likeable celebrity.  So, I'm not sure if her performance stood out because of my bias, or that her character was just better designed than the other two.  Diane Keaton easily filled the shoes of a former socialite and I had no trouble buying Katie Holmes as a dingbat.  The dialog among the principals was interesting and believable for the most part - you can imagine these three people actually talking and acting this way.  Certainly, there are some funny moments in here, but for the most part the film is just slow.  The women spend years stealing the money.  And naturally enough, they are eventually suspected of something.

The ending left something to be desired.  At no point in the movie did the "good guys" actually compare the serial numbers on the cash to those that had been erased (supposed to be shredded), which would have immediately given them concrete evidence. I realize this is a comedy, but this made the Feds come off as idiots instead of the women cleverly getting the better of them, which would have been more satisfying.  "Mad Money" also tried to follow in the hallowed footsteps of heist films - they need to get away with it.  When watching a heist film, the audience wants the thieves to make off with the cash, especially in a "victimless crime" (e.g. robbing a casino - no hostages, no killing).  Secretly we want to be able to get the better of the big guys.  But, this didn't work for the comedy because the women did come under investigation, and getting their happily ever after was beyond contrived.  So, if you are expecting something like <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000B1OFL">The Italian Job (Special Collector's Edition)</a>, a heist film with some humor, you won't find it here.  However, it was fun to watch if you've got nothing else you're dying to see.