This movie definitely had the potential to be an eye-opener for young black 'baby boys', but in the end it missed its mark. While quite entertaining, it failed to make a sound statement for the socially conscious viewer,which might have been alright if it had been a comedy, but it was obvious it was intended to be a drama taken seriously. And for that reason alone, I am left somewhat disappointed. First, in how passive the girlfriend Yvette's character was. Even though she screamed at Jody all the time, she still basically said it was ok for him to cheat on her as long as it wasnt anyone she knew and as long as he didnt give her any diseases. Sad. He treats her horribly and even has another baby with another girl and she still keeps him. Even more sad. And although she finally kicks him out, she does nothing to get on with her life and instead mopes around the house and cries that he no longer loves her. Sadder still. But actually, what's TRULY sad is that her character probably IS 'keeping it real'. So many young girls today are JUST that insecure to allow such behavior from a man. But it would have been nice to see a stronger female role that could survive without someone who wasnt any good anyway.
But if her character had to stay the same then there could atleast have been a better ending for Jody's character. Am I the only one who didnt see a 'happy ending'? Is it just me or did nothing about Jody's character change? The only difference I noticed was that he was being nicer to his mom's boyfriend, which was only right. But it never showed that he got a job, and he still got into YVETTE's car and took out keys to YVETTE's apartment. What changed?! Looks like he went from living off of his mother to living off of Yvette. It just seems to me that the mark of no longer being a 'baby boy' would have been to show him get a job, his OWN car, and a new apartment for his family. But I suppose that falls on the writer and director. The one good thing I can say is that Tyrese did the best with what he was given. I was very impressed with his acting.