The two main characters in this movie are played by Diego Luna and Romola Garai. (Patrick Swayze also makes a few small appearances in this film as a middle-aged hotel dance instructor who winds up helping the young heroine work through her dancing fears in regards to letting her male partner "lead" her.)
Both Diego and Romola create very believable and engaging characters on-screen.
The plot is quite interesting, involving a bit more depth than the original Dirty Dancing movie of the late 80's. It is set in Havana, Cuba, near the end of the Cuban revolution to overthrow the then-current president, Batista, and to afterwards set Fidel Castro in the prominent position of leadership.
The male protagonist is a native Cuban pool boy, who comes from a very poor family, and is trying to support not just himself, but his whole family - including a young male child that one of his elder brother's ex-girlfriends dropped off prior to the time when the movie begins.
The female protagonist is a scholarly American girl, temporarily living in Havana with her mother, father, and younger sister, until she can finish the 2nd half of her senior year of high school, and then head back to the States for college.
In the beginning of the movie, the female lead is not pleased with having to move to Cuba because of her father's job promotion, but she very maturely apologizes in the first quarter of the film to her father for her initially surly attitude.
One of the commendable things regarding this movie is that the characters do not fall into completely stereotypical types. There is a refreshing element of un-expectability in how they do what they do, what they say, and their non-verbal expressions of what they think. The English actress Romola, in particular, is quite clearly skilled at her line of work. Any of the characters in this movie could have been portrayed by the actor or actress playing them in a cliched manner. However, I was very pleased that I rarely felt during the film that any of the scenes were at all cheesy. The movie was not perfect, by any means, but it was well-made, and the care and time put into its creation is evident.
I would definitely recommend this movie for someone wanting to watch any of these types of films: the romantic, teen, dancing, or feel-good variety.
If you are the sort of person who prefers watching movies along the more serious lines of "The King's Speech," (starring Colin Firth), then this much more light-hearted film is probably not for you.
If, however, you want to view a positive movie purely for entertainment's sake, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend watching "Dirty Dancing - Havana Nights."
An interesting footnote I would like to add is that the plot was derived from one woman's real-life experiences in Cuba, which were similar to those of the character Katie in the film.
Another intriguing tid-bit is that the actor who plays the Cuban older brother is from a natively Cuban family, and truly grew up in Cuba through his pre-teen years until his family moved to Florida. The actor's father was actually present the night the revolution over-threw President Batista in favor Fidel Castro, which is the exact same evening that is re-portrayed in this movie.
All in all, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this film, and by how many different aspects of it I found interesting or admired.  :)