for this review, i have only watched the blu ray so far, so i cannot comment on the dvd portion, or any bonus material.  the movie itself is wonderful.  as an adult, seeing all the old toys will be appreciated more by you than children.  the animation is wonderful, and blu ray looks great.  the colors are very crisp.  the picture jumps off my tv and its only a midrange flatscreen.  the rating i gave is judging this as a movie, not a "childrens" movie.

although i think this movie is great, this movie should not be rated G.  i found the namecalling with words like "idiot" and "stupid" unneccessary.  they could have either replaced the words with "silly", left out the word completely, or just rated it PG.  my 2 year old immediately repeated "stupid dog" to our puppy 5 times.

then there is Sid, the horrible little neighbor who isnt so nice to his toys.  his character itself is disturbing, mean, and could be upsetting to young children.  the movie is showing how toys really feel, and here Sid is hurting them.  it may be a little difficult to tell your young child this isnt real, and the toys arent getting hurt.  again, just rate it PG.

then Sid is playing with matches and fireworks.  the character actually reads the box of fireworks outloud saying they are dangerous, and then goes to use them.  i think this is completely overboard for a G movie.  i try so hard to instill the dangers of playing with matches and fire, and here this movie is showing a child go to light fireworks carrying around a box of matches knowing they are dangerous.  woody himself tries to light the match.  whether they could have made the movie as complete using a different scenerio, i dont know.

G does not mean EVERYONE is going to like a movie, G means EVERYONE can watch it without upsetting even the youngest, most sensitive viewer.  although i watched this right next to my children, G rated means i shouldnt have to explain that the behavior in the movie as something we arent suppose to repeat, like playing with matches or namecalling.  for clarification, shrek and beetlejuice have adult humor, but they are rated PG.  dora, diego, max and ruby, and wonderpets are suitable to be rated G.