This is probably unfair to say, because the book "Grand Hotel" was based on has been out of print for decades and is incredibly hard to find, but this blockbuster Oscar-winning classic film is NOTHING compared to Vicki Baum's 1930 original German novel, "People in a Hotel". I happened across the book in a dusty corner of a dusty used bookstore purely on a lark, never having seen the film, and didn't stop reading until the last page. It was one of the most moving, beautifully-written novels I've ever read; Vicki Baum's grasp of human nature, from bellhops to barons, is astonishing, and the writing (with assist from translator Basil Creighton) is heartbreaking and thrilling. Just check out this little passage. Grusinskaya (played by Greta Garbo in the movie), the aging, despondent fading-star ballerina, has just finished a dance:
"Curtain and applause. There was even fairly vigorous applause considering how empty the theater was and how few there were to clap. 'Encore?' asked Grusinskaya without stirring from her pose. 'No,' whispered Pimenov in a loud and desperate whisper from the wings. The applause was over. It was over. Grusinskaya still lay where she was for a few minutes like a flake of foam, just as she had died in her dance and with the dust of the stage on her hands and arms and temples. For the first time in her life there was no encore for this dance. I can do no more, she thought. No, I have done enough. I can do no more."
Unfortunately this heartbreaking scene wasn't in the movie; it gave volumes of explanation as to why Grusinskaya was suicidal, so without it, Garbo just comes off as a melodramatic nutjob. There are many such scenes from the book that were chopped up or cut out altogether that would have added so much, and without them the film just jumps from plotpoint to plotpoint with little rhyme or reason. I know that 90% of any book has to go when being translated from book to movie---and I know that Vicki Baum herself wrote the screenplay, so it was hardly a hack job---but it just seems that so much beauty was packed into so little time that there was no way to really connect with these amazing characters. The acting was brilliant, of course (although why in hell ultra-American Wallace Beery had a German accent when nobody else did I have no idea), but it just left me sad and angered that this magnificent novel, now all but forgotten, leaves its only trace on the world with this watchable but hugely flawed movie. It could have been so much more. If you ever find the book, no matter what condition it's in, BUY IT. Maybe someday if enough people squawk, it'll come back into print.