I won't go into the movie. Those who have seen it know it's a funny, yet heart-warming story in the end. The movie itself I would give about 3.5 stars. American Pie 1 and 2 are better, but AW is NOT a bad movie and is still an excellent final chapter to the entire American Pie series. My qualms lie with what Universal Studios has chosen to do with the ads, and it occured with a previous Universal DVD release, Animal House.
The AW DVD has some features that are cool, including deleted scenes and the Unrated version goes into why they created an unrated version. What I also like with the unrated DVD release is that you have both the theatrical release and the unrated version. I think that's an excellent marketing ploy. The extra scenes are okay, but I don't know if they are totally worth it except one part where Finch, Kevin and Stifler are asked if they would like to see the two strippers kiss. Their answer to it is hilarious and it pays a great homage to AP2. 
But, the one annoying thing about this DVD (as it is with the Animal House DVD) and is the only reason I gave the DVD a 1-star rating, is the commercials. Now, supposedly, unlike the Animal House DVD, you can skip the commercials. Yet, I was unable to skip them with my particular DVD player except by stopping the movie and then restarting it. This is better than my Animal House DVD, in which my only recourse was to turn off the DVD player. 
So, if you don't mind having the commercials thrown into your face and you haven't seen this movie, I would suggest possibly renting it first to see if you want it. I myself have already written my displeasure with Animal House and American Wedding to Universal. I have a feeling this is the route they will continue to take, which is sad as I have other Universal movies on DVD that I enjoy. However, if enough consumers write to them and complain, hopefully they will listen and change their tactics.
Again, the movie is funny and great (3.5 stars), but the DVD release with the adds forced upon the viewer is what kills the rating for this release. In fact, if we had the option, this DVD would have possibly gotten a zero from me. And believe me, I LOVE my movies!