It's difficult to understand how any viewer could interpret this film as anything but a homophobic, angry diatribe.  The original text of Christopher Marlowe might well have been lent to a production questioning the brutal end said to have been inflicted on Edward II because of his sexuality.  However, this movie *underscores* the supposed bestiality of the King, of Gaveston (presented here as a virulently awful creature whose allure is maddeningly, entirely inexplicable) ... and thereby seems to agree with the notion that homosexuality is repugnant and ought to be brutally punished.  How baffling, then, that this film has gained the reputation for being gay positive in any way.

Every last character in this production is a villain; but the king and his favorites are imbued with a special sort of loathsomeness.  Had Gaveston been presented with the slightest human dignity, or had Steven Waddington's performance been allowed to display even a hint of integrity or strength, this movie might well have been a great one.  Unfortunately, they and everyone around them are hateful, brutal, selfish and conniving.

The performances are universally wretched, which points a finger at the director, not his actors. The editing, both of the source material and of the film itself, appears to be nearly arbitrary. The art direction is either murky or the DVD transfer is abysmal.  The perfect absence of sympathy for ANY of the characters is tiresome, not challenging.  As it stands, the artiness is all this film has left to offer - and that is rather dated now, and not terribly engaging.  When I have enough mental slack while watching a movie to take time to wonder why the poet changed from one pair of reading glasses to another just because some new characters entered the scene, and do not even CARE about the answer, that movie has failed to capture my attention.

I let ten years lapse between my first viewing and my second, and I returned to this film because I believe in second chances.  This was worse the second time, worse than "Howard the Duck".  No third chances will be afforded.  Absolute, utter dreck - and violently *anti-gay*.