Apparently, 80 minutes proved to be way too much time for Chris Rock. His first was the best at 56 minutes. The second special was not as good but still great at 65. Then he gives us this. Eighty minutes of ZZZzzzzzzzz.
I love Chris Rock's style of comedy. His "in your face, but not aimed AT YOUR face" profanity and unique delivery has made him the "blueprint" for other stand up comics. (Notice how comedy central stand up specials sound more and more like CR shows?). Now, after the high standard that he set for himself, It wouldnt be a surprise if he slips a little bit. Maybe another Bigger and blacker. I mean, how does one top Bring the pain? Now adoring Chris Rock so much actually made it painful to see him perform Never scared. Watching him tell his jokes in front of a yawning Washington crowd reminded me of the time Tyson got knocked out by Buster Douglas. Just when you thought the guy was invincible, he ends up picking up his mouth-piece from the ring.

I felt sorry for the man as he went through his routine. If this was some unknown comic you were watching in an old New York basement you might find this routine decent. But no! C.R. is stand up royalty and what he put on this disc just ain't worthy of him. There were some portions that were still reminiscent of his old self. The "mock the celebrities" and "Nelson Mandela" part was pretty hilarious. Everything else is filler. And I'm talking about wasted tape (wasted disc space if you bought the DVD).

Now I'm asian. It shouldn't bother me that he makes fun of white people. Hell, I laughed my ass off of his white-black jokes on his first two shows. But the way he spit it out on Never scared is just disgusting. It's disgusting how he reffered to the NFL blacks as descendants of negro super-slaves. It's disgusting how he talked about how only the white man can profit from pain. It's freakin disgusting when he started to explain why we shouldn't fear Al Quaeda when he asked the crowd "did Al-Quaeda put Anthrax in your mail...no! did Al-Quaeda blow up the building in Oklahoma...no!"

He sounds like a black Adolf Hitler preaching about the evil things that white people do. I wouldn't be surprised if Osama cut clips from this show for his next anti-US propaganda video.There are more claps than laughs from the crowd and thats bad if you're a stand-up comic.

I hope this is not a preview of things to come.