I'll forego critiquing the technical aspects of this movie (although they play a big role in my liking the film) because other reviews have successfully dissected von Trier's vision.
Instead, my review will be based on my emotional response to the movie.
I reacted so strongly to this movie, and that alone should say a lot. But my reaction went deeper than the usual sobfest. I experienced total and utter sympathy with Selma's character. Selma may've been an oddball, but I could relate to her. Why is it so far-fetched that a hard-working woman would want to give all that she could to save her son from the doom that faced him and her too? It seems to me that this is the story of most people. What meaning is there in life if not for the people we love?
The strange persona that Bjork lent to Selma's character only helped to immerse me in the movie. But it was more than Bjork's magnetism that made Selma. Her skillful acting made me feel like I was watching Bjork herself, just Bjork in another life or in some parallel universe. She seemed as real as life itself, and this was great because for all of Selma's whimsy, there was a tangible, warm-blooded human being under there. It's almost as if we needed Selma's larger-than-life personality to draw us in, so that we could witness the story truer to life, the story of suffering that reflected those pains deep within us.
This movie shouldn't be disregarded as a tired melodrama or as Lars von Trier's attempt to simply shock or manipulate the audience. Why must we walk away from this movie, angry at the emotions it is asking us to get in touch with? These days it takes so much for a story to be interesting anymore, yet when a movie makes a solid effort at unconventional story-telling, it's criticized merely for its daring. What about the story, the message? 
"Dancer in the Dark" is remarkable if only for this one fact: it captures that final (and still, UNfinal) moment at the end, when Bjork is singing out her soul; a scene filmed so starkly and unsympathetically; it's trying to show that the beauty in real life's ugliest moments is ten times more beautiful than all the fantasy and make-believe we create. Selma's peace was achieved not in a moment of whimsy but in a brave and frightening moment with herself. And she found that the love in her heart was just enough to get her through the final hurdle.