The strengths of this Nutcracker can be summed up very simply: the dancing of Baryshnikov and Kirkland, which is to no one's surprise excellent and engaging. And there is some fine dancing from other members of the American Ballet Theater.

However, if you're looking for a Nutcracker that will cause you to revel in the holidays as well as Tchaikovsky's glorious music, this isn't it.
The sets by Boris Aronson range from a very ordinary parlor for Act 1 to a downright ugly fantasy candyland for Act 2. The costuming is second rate. The Chinese dancers don't look Chinese; the Russians don't look Russian. Other costuming seems cheap and uninspired. The general filming is too soft focus with not enough color contrast. And who's idea was it to have the ugly Act 2 thrones downstage blocking the action?

From a choreographic standpoint, this is also a disappointing production.
The children in Act 1 don't have much fun dancing and there are not enough of them. The adults don't act particularly well. It seems corners were cut in a lot of the dances in Act 2 which seem under populated and lacking in imagination and fire. You'd think the Russian dance in a Baryshnikov production would set your TV on fire; it is so tame and forgetable here. The Arabian dance is sadly missing altogether!

The idea of having Drosselmeyer appear in the climactic Act 2
pas de deux is a major distraction. He's simply out of place and adds no joy to the procedings. I'm sure this was meant as some deep psychological addition to the procedings, but it simply kills the moment and has nothing to do with the sublime music. And Act 2, which should end on a magical note, seems downright despressing in this production as Kirkland gazes out of a window like a lost soul???

If you want to revel in Nutcracker as a holiday treat, you must turn to the glorious Balanchine version with the NYC Ballet (on DVD) which has Christmas and joy written all over it. Sumptuosly designed, filmed and cast, it should be your first choice. The ABT version can only serve a supplementary version for a serious collection.