I loooooove sex and the city the show; i thought it was funny and still is one of my fave shows. and of course like any other fan i was excited to know a movie was in the works. the final product however...not as great as i expected.

First off, i don't think Carrie and big should be married. I think the show spent its entire series showing how, at the end of the day, these two people were just not the marrying kind. And after being together for 10 years all of a sudden, on a random day of the week, Big (of either one, he is the most shocking to suggest it) just throws out the idea of getting married--and then is the one that calls it off! I think a better storyline for them would have been to stay happily coupled and adopt. I also would have liked to have seen more about their relationship day to day. The whole movie for them was basically the planning of their wedding, them breaking up and then in the last 20 minutes getting back together...I don't even know if they had that great of a relationship to begin with seeing as how the series ended with them back together. I would have liked to see how their relationship improved, if at all, from the roller coaster it was on the series in more than just a few scenes of them looking at a house and reading in bed.

Miranda and Steve's problems were predictable if you know anything about Miranda. Not saying that Steve was justified but Miranda getting consumed with work and neglecting her husband didn't feel that far from conceivable.

Samantha didn't even seem like herself anymore! This was a woman that prided herself on her fabulosity and glamour but in the movie, she lets herself go by gaining weight? As I recall, she wanted a boob job on the show! And true Samantha would have NEVER let that hot neighbor tease her like that ESPECIALLY while her and Smith were having problems. And speaking of Smith, he seemed like such a sincere, down to earth guy on the show but I guess the fame he acquired changed him, showering Samantha with expensive gifts instead of support and acting like a complete jerk after blowing off valentines day! (and walking in with a box of chocolates? c'mon, if you're this big star with all this money and obviously can afford to buy her expensive jewelry on any other occasion, it did not seem realistic that of all days, valentines day, all he would have thought of was some candy!) And speaking of valentines day--Samantha going through those lengths for any man? Not believable. And then waiting up for him like a disgruntled housewife? The Samantha I knew would have got all dolled up and went out looking for a new guy at a hot, new club once Smith screwed up.

And Charlotte....I don't have anything to say for her character cause the script didn't give her much. It seemed kind of forced that she would be pregnant all of a sudden after the drawn out storyline during the series of her struggles with conceiving. And am I the only one that doesn't think that the toddler lily looks like a believable older version of that picture Charlotte had from the series finale?

And I keep reading comments about how people are confused by Anthony and Stanford becoming friends which I agree with but I was also more confused by the disappearance of Standford's boyfriend Marcus. If i'm not mistaken, didn't they end the series with them still together? But in the movie, all of a sudden he's gone and now Stanford has grown closer with someone he hated on the show. I admired the fact that SATC included a gay storyline in the series with Stanford and his relationships along with the heterosexual ones with the girls and was interested to see how they would continue that with the movie, hoping that Stanford and Marcus would still be together proving that gay relationships can be just as long-lasting and fulfilling as straight ones (especially given the continued struggle the gay community has with proving the validity of their bonds and trying to legalize gay marriage). But they gave Stanford, or any gay character for that matter, nothing and I was disappointed in that.

Also, yes we all know that fashion was a character on the show but it was a between the lines placement, i felt. It seemed like just a normal part of their lives, naturally occurring but in the movie it was definitely forced. The part about Carrie's involvement in that Vogue article seemed like the movie's way of giving her an excuse to dance around in labels for a photo shoot--we get it, she loves clothes--and did she really need to tell us all the designers who made them? Did they give some type of incentive for having a mention in the movie, because that's how it felt to me. And how perfect that she gets to keep one of the dresses for her own wedding--again, a moment that I felt was fake and was forced.

Jennifer Hudson's character was fresh as everyone agrees but I don't know if I was comfortable with her acting. I mean, for the role, its not like she needed to bring an Oscar performance but there were definitely moments where her emotions seemed fake and her talking sounded like she was reading directly from the script or reading from cue cards. But it was nice to see another African American face since, lets face it, there weren't hardly any on the show which was odd to me because NY within itself is very diverse.

All in all...I was happy with what they put out only because I think I just really miss the show and the movie was like an extra episode for fans who were tired of watching the reruns on TV. But I must say, as a fan, they could have done much, much better. Hopefully they realize this with the sequel....