More like not even from the same planet. Folks, this abysmal "documentary" is served up by Rosanna Arquette and is a ridiculously piss-poor attempt at revealing "ageism" or "sexism" or something-ism coming out of modern Hollywood.

First, Arquette needs to go to film school. She was in way over her head with this "project."  Her ego and obvious lack of interviewing skills made some scenes difficult to watch.

Second, somebody needs to tell Arquette that nepotism is NEVER a good idea. Loading up your film crew to attend a Cannes film festival showing of your sister's "work" is low-brow and insulting to the viewer. Discussing how "proud" your parents would be of you and your sister is not germane to the subject matter and more than a little patronizing to the audience. Christ on a crutch, Arquette, sentimentalizing your own life in the context of a documentary film discussing ageism in Hollywood is completely inappropriate and unprofessional.

The best scenes in the film were with Jane Fonda. A more appropriate title for this film would have been "Getting Some Good Insights from Jane Fonda." Fonda's discussion of those rare moments during filming when an actor becomes one with the set, the other actors, the director, their inner and outer creative forces -- that few minutes of discussion were the highlight of the whole film. Fonda discussing intimacy - also somewhat interesting, especially coming from someone whose been in the business as long as she has, hearing about her sacrifices and what it meant to her - that was pretty good stuff.

Winger contributed very little to the film. And most of the film was just an ego-driven cacophony of dye-blonde botoxed-up middle-aged mediocre actresses discussing how to deal with their kids and families. (Are we really supposed to take Kelly Lynch and Daryl Hannah seriously? Has anyone ever taken these babes seriously? Really, Hannah was great as Kennedy Jr.'s girlfriend---but as a serious actress? Please.) McDormand didn't seem like she took any of it seriously. Rampling seemed bored or uninterested, or maybe there was a little prima donna stuff going on with her - she seemed detached from the process.

You have to wonder what the reactions of these actresses were when they were approached by Arquette to participate in the project. Redgrave? Jane Fonda?  Charlotte Rampling? These are heavyweights in the business, people, and Rosanna Arquette is...who? It seems entirely reasonable that some of the other heavies, like Streep, Sarandon, and Jodie Foster would have turned her down after laughing uproariously over the concept. Or maybe they were just busy working, something that would leave Arquette wondering why she would be making a film about women of a certain age being unable to get work  in Hollywood.

For documentaries, stick with Michael Moore.  Arquette hasn't got any chops and, at least at this time, seems ill-equipped to handle the challenges of any substantive issue in a documentary film.