I was kind of hoping the Doctor Who movie was going to be a case of, "What was everyone talking about, this is really good!"  Well, it's not, but it's not horrible either.

One issue is with the continuity issues: I know many fans have an issue with the fact that the Daleks are holding a trial; Daleks don't' have trials, they exterminate.  That I don't have a problem, Davros is brought back to Skaro to be put on trial at the end of "Revelation of the Daleks."  But Skaro was destroyed at the end of "Remembrance of the Daleks."  Yes, I know one of the novels explains that away, but still.

Why would the Daleks put the Master on the trial?  I assume some untelevised story, but why would the Daleks be holding the trial?  And more importantly, why would they allow the Doctor to have the remains?  I'd think that the Daleks would exterminate him as soon as he came to collect the remains.

The Doctor being half-human?  The Eye of Harmony bit, the movie seemed to indicate that it was only located in the Doctor's TARDIS.  I thought it was on Gallifrey, and powered all TARDISes?  And seems he moved it from the cloister room to beneath the TARDIS controls sometime?

The plot is simplistic, but that's understandable - they're trying to sell it to an audience that unfamiliar with Doctor Who.

Eric Roberts as the Master.  Not horrible, but after watching Anthony Ainley, Roger Delgado, and John Simms... well, Eric Roberts seems to pale.  I like the continuity of taking over a human body, a la the classic series.  And we get to see the only time the Master appears in traditional Time Lord apparel.  Which apparently makes him act effeminate...

Paul McGann does a good job as the Doctor, though really he's only on-screen for really a short amount of time.

I was never a huge fan of Sylvester McCoy; I think in hindsight because I never liked any of his companions and he was in some really weak stories.  He's not in the movie that much, just in the beginning, but he's in it more than usual in any regeneration story.  Usually the previous act appears in the regeneration story for a few seconds (or at all, thinking back to "The Eleventh Hour" or "Rose").  Showing him enjoying himself in the TARDIS at the beginning was kind of neat.

I liked the redesign of the interior of the TARDIS (though, where did all the dead leaves in the cloister room come from?  And aren't having those lit torches a fire hazard?).  You can imagine the TARDIS being lived in and traveled in, not like the sterile way it was depicted starting with the second Doctor.  I think.  The way the TARDIS was depicted in the first Doctor stories, you could imagine living in it.

Anyway, I'd say it was a solid "C".  The extras were good, but I don't if you need to watch them more than once.  Maybe rent it on Netflicks, but I don't know if I'd call it essential to own it.