Who's the REAL Eliza? Shout it out now: JULIE! JULIE! JULIE!
"My Fair Lady". Thats all one needs to say to get the attention of millions. But who is locked in the public's mind as Eliza Dootlittle?: Dame Julie Andrews. Deservedly so. She took Broadway by storm in My Fair Lady. Making covers of "Life" Magazine and more in 1956 etc. No one-and i mean no one (that includes Audrey Hepburn) should have been allowed to destory the Eliza that Julie created. Jack Warner destroyed Eliza buy hiring Audrey Hepburn. Ofcourse we all know it didnt hurt Ms. Andrews' career. She got a LITTLE gig called "Mary Poppins"...I'm sure NONE OF YOU have heard of it, right? And then a tiny little thing called "the sound of music" only the most popular movie of all time. AND she got her Oscar for Best Actress for Mary Poppins. Go, Julie! She showed them. Even Jack Warner admitted that he voted for Julie Andrews in the Academy Awards. ANd It has been said by MORE than a few that "passing up Julie Andrews for Eliza ruined Jack's career and was the worst move he ever made". Audrey Hepburn was a terribly weak Eliza Doolittle. And thet world knows it--come on, admit it. Most of you have heard the Julie Andrews version from the my fair lady broadway cd 9or the lndon cast, ms. andrews did both) and it is SO true that she was much better. her accent is way believable. ANd her singing voice is unmatchable. (four and a half octaves--which is more than i can say about Audrey's dubber Marni Nixon). Well, Rex Harrison was wonderful on the upside. He pleaded with Jack Warner to use Julie. But, now that i think of it no one "uses" MY julie. They can "use" her talent, yes. of which she has much. but julie makes her own desicions. and when jack warner asked her to reprise her Broadway role of Guenvere in the movie version Camelot, after a long process of thought (and because Richard Burton and Robert Goulet, who lpayed oppisite her on Broadway had both declinded) she said "No." GO, Julie! Atleast Jack had the sense to ask the real Queen to be the queen in his movie. I guess he didn't wanna make the mistake he made with my fair lady again, huh? Yup.
If we were in 1964 right now. If i were to go back in time. I would have barged into jack's office and screamed my lungs out until he promised to fire Audrey. :) innocent little me. but it is well known that Julie's career outlasted Audrey's. Yup-yup. For Julie is still decking out major movie hits as we speak--and Audrey well, I loved her in "Breakfast At Tiffany's" and may she rest in peace. From what i know, which is a lot when it comes to julie andrews, Audrey and Julie got along famously. Now dont get me wrong. I dont HATE Audrey, she was just very wro0ng for the part. I like Audrey very much. not NEARLY as much as i love julie andrews but...i think the world agrees when i say that its much easier to fall in love with mary poppins than holly goliightly whom ONLY "Fred" REALLY loved with all his heart. Julie just has that efffect on people that audrey doesnt possess. well, we cant have it all can we? We've got "Mary Poppins" and "The Sound Of Music" so soften the blow. If Julie had done My Fair lady, she WOULD have been able to do Mary Poppins but she WOULDNT have been able to do "The Americanization Of Emily" or "The Sound Of Music". and let's face it, Can anyone here actually imagine "The Sound Of Music" with anyone BUT Julie ANdrews? Honestly, no. Toodles and Long Live Queen Julie Andrews!'
~*~*~*Julie Andrews Always,~*~*~*~ Skye