I first heard about THE GREAT DEBATERS when my friend and I were browsing through the antique shops of Arcadia, LA.  The owner of one of those shops told me that several pieces of furniture out of her store had been purchased to use in the movie.  That was fascinating.  When you watch the movie, you'll have so much to see -- all the rich historical drama and good acting of a suspense-filled plot -- that you may not notice the authenticty of the set, including the furniture.  If you buy the DVD, you will have enough interesting things to watch again and again.

It is sad to realize how things were in the 1930's in the part of the world where I live.  This movie portrays the horrible way black people were treated.  This story of Melvin B. Tolson, played by Denzel Washington, gives background information about the Civil Rights movement.  Tolson's 1935 debate club at Wiley College, Marshall, Texas, stunned the nation.  (I won't give the end of the plot away!)

Langston Hughes, the famous poet who authored "A Dream Deferred", visited Wiley College and said,  "Melvin Tolson is the most famous Negro professor in the Southwest. Students all over that part of the world speak of him, revere him, remember him and love him."  Tolson was active on many levels.  In real life he was an English and speech professor, labor organizer, modern poet, novelist, debate coach, drama coach, and football coach! His methods were radical.  At times while I watched the movie, I was anxious about some of his behavior as played by Denzel Washington.  It is amazing that this man was not lynched.

Instead, the professor did just fine and eventually left Wiley College to teach in Oklahoma.  Wiley College, located in east Texas between Dallas and Shreveport, is doing fine too.  In fact, it continues to thrive and has one of th best teacher-student ratios in the nation.

I digress.  Back to the movie,  I admired the writers and producers, along with Denzel Washington (the director) for having the courage to tell the truth.  The movie protrays painfully true pictures of both blacks and whites of the time. It shows the oppression of intelligent black people by uneducated white people. It also shows the conflicts within a young black man who struggled with issues related to moving into adulthood.  The pain he caused a young woman is played with sensitivity.

To modern educators, the students may have seemed wooden in their debates. The professor rehearsed the students and taught them by rote.
In our time, we are so eager to make all our students independent thinkers that we do not achieve the discipline that made these debaters successful.

THE GREAT DEBATERS is much more than a movie about social causes.  It is a beautifully acted and produced work of art.