With approximately fifteen kazilion schmillion movies made in the past century, the question we as audience member must ask ourselves is, are we being too demanding if we expect originality in every new film? Hmmm... my answer? Yes and no. Who wants to watch something totally bizarre or un-life like simply because it's "different" or who wants to watch something so cookie-cutter we can almost quote it top to bottom simply from reading the back of DVD? Its a delicate balance. Do we make a movie that twists and turns, surprising but potentially confusing the viewer? OR do we stick with the good ol' tried and true recipe, a familar friend but potentially TOO familiar?

So where does The Sentinel fall? Well lets examine. We've got a president in trouble, we've got a high-profile afair, we've got two ex-best friend's having to work with and then against and then again with each other, we've got a hot rookie agent and we've got a mystery mole in the mix. If this doesn't ring any bells, I think its safe to consider yourself an absentee from the last several decades of cop/president/political films. But the pleasant surpise we get from this film is that, while it does ring bells, they probably won't start ringing till after you've left the theatre.

How did they pull THAT off? I can think of three reasons.

1) The Pre-Promo of the movie

A problem I have seen in the film industry is that, in promoting a film(interviews, articles, previews, clips,etc.), they sell more than whats there. But the problem with this method is that movies must suceed long after the teaser trailer to make good profit. Content matters, of course. So the tricky part is selling a movie that will appeal to the masses but not decieve them into thinking they're getting something different or better than what will actually happen on the screen. The Sentinel did this much better than ALOT of movies that have come out recently. The preview told you what the movie was about, who the movie was about and what the general genre and feel would be for the movie WITHOUT giving away several "extra" or "to-be-discovered" plot details. This really is a great assett. When I went in, I had a level of expectation that was easily met which made me able to just sit back and enjoy the movie and not think about what I THOUGHT about the movie till after it was done.

2) The Pacing

Bless the screenwriter for the script and dialogue. At every moment I thought it would get cheesy or drawn-out, there were usually just a couple words and then a change of scene. Occasionally, I can enjoy and be somewhat-inspired by a passionate soliliqy.... but typically, unless its a Shakespeare-written or beautiful person-given speech, I'm simply enduring it for sake of the rest of the movie. Here, the pace never goes so fast and furious that you need too long of a breather. On the other hand, its not at all halting. Whatever is happening is interesting and moves along. This tactic can save even a mediocre movie simply because it leaves you no time to get bored while not exhausting you.

3) The Actors

Truly, this is what makes or breaks the movie. Actors have the chance to really brighten a gosh-awful script or really sour a beautiful story. Believe me, it was no accident that Michael Douglas is in all but about thirty seconds of this movie(for an older actor, this guy has some serious stamina!). He IS his character, through and through and absolutely demands your attention when on screen. Brilliant actor. Sutherland was his typical terribly likable half-asleep self and Bassinger is, as always, solid. Longoria is ok. Her character seems like an after-thought and she's got the unmistakable TV-actor-aura about her but it was a good step into a potentially succesful movie career.

So there's the good. But, sadly, I've got two things against this movie that swings it from the 4-Star "Very Watchable" catagory to the 3-Star "Pretty Stinkin' Mediocre" catagory.

1) The Story

While its pretty fun when you're watching it, we all see whats coming for miles. Luckily, we're not set up to expect a huge twist but are rather drawn to focus on the drama of the characters or else the Mole would have been a bigger let down. The story line was familiar but pretty enjoyable all the way till the end when you start glancing around the theatre wondering, "Did we just get suckered into enjoying another repeat script from Hollywood?" Suddenly you recognize the characters for who they are... the faithful but flawed hero, the law-abiding agent and his hot pants assistant, the weepy first-lady, and, above all, the perfectly-underdevolped-but-familar, not-striking-but-averagely- handsome "bad guy".

2) The After Taste

The good thing is, this movie is fun to watch. The bad thing is, you won't want to watch it twice. And you won't really think about it again. And you won't really talk about it. Its good, but it's merely a 2006 film... 07 and on will know nothing of it.

This movie is certainly in the top percentile of its kind and I would reccomend it if I ever happen to think of it when talking about movies with people, which isn't likely. Enjoy the watch and then forget it. Not hard to do.

What were we talking about again?