I just watched this movie for the very first time the other night on cable TV, unedited, and I absolutely loved it.

The screenplay was very well written and the movie was very well directed, cast, and edited.  The acting is SO good in this movie that I'm very surprised that it didn't do so well here in the US.  I guess that 1998 wasn't the best time to have released such a wonderful rock n' roll movie like this here in the US.  Oh well...

Anyway, when I tuned in to watch this movie, I honestly was not expecting to like it so much.  I was expecting it to only be pretty good and filled with a lot of unbearably silly and cheesy stuff.  However, while there are many cheesy and silly moments throughout the entire movie, none of them are unbearable to watch at all.  In fact, most of them are VERY funny.  This movie was surprisingly good, but what pleasantly surprised me the most was how very well the actors sang each of Strange Fruit's songs.  Bill Nighy and Jimmy Nail both have surprisingly good singing voices.

Also, what I thought was very interesting about this movie was how similar some of this movie was to what happened to a younger, but very similar, band that I'm still friends with.  They were a local underground unsigned hard rock band that almost made their rock n' roll dreams come true over the last five (5) years.  However, they broke up last year because it had become VERY obvious to them that their rock n' roll dreams were never going to come true.

Anyway, "Still Crazy" is a movie for people that liked "This Is Spinal Tap", but were annoyed by the over the top silliness and cheesiness of the movie and the characters in it.  Don't get me wrong, I do like "This Is Spinal Tap " a lot, but all of the characters in "Still Crazy" are portrayed in a much more realistic way that is much more believable and palatable than the way that the characters in "This Is Spinal Tap" were portrayed.  Each of the characters in "Still Crazy" is more human than the very over the top silly caricatures that the characters in "This Is Spinal Tap" are.

This is one of the best rock n' roll movies ever made.  I would compare it to "The Commitments" and say that "Still Crazy" is just as good.  (Maybe even a little bit better.)  Basically, "Still Crazy" is a great movie that I think almost everyone will enjoy.  I recommend buying this movie's soundtrack too because it has all of the great music from the movie in it.