I have mixed views on this movie. First, even though it's animated, this is not a movie for kids. The animation is fantastic and there are some good action scenes. Like other reviewers have said here and on other websites, I agree that it is like so much coming out of Hollywood today that portrays the military as just a bunch of war mongers that start wars and kill just because it's fun, use war as a first resort, see it as the best solution for everything, and have no morals, no logic, no ability to think or reason. I have been trying hard not to give my dollars to movies and such that portray Americans this way (or Earthlings in this case, though we know very well who they really mean), but unfortunately, I can't return opened movies. It also protrays the humans as a species that destroyed it's own environment, then destroyed Earth itself in a war, then seeks a new home on another planet by committing genocide with no regard for the indigenous people. There are many other agendas pushed here as well. I'm surprised this isn't required viewing in our schools today like a lot of similar movies.

However, after thinking about it more, I realize that while this was obviously intended to be totally anti-military, if you are open minded and examine both sides of the situation portrayed, it can actually make the case for a strong military. Think about it. Place yourself in the viewpoint of the Terrans. It just shows that you can have an advanced, peaceful, evolved, wonderful society and yet, no matter how wonderful things are within your own borders so to speak, even the Terrans found out that there are bad people out there in the rest of the world. Even the evolved Terrans found out they had a need for a military and should have had a way to defend themselves from evil.

It's disappointing that they chose to portray humans as the evil villians in this story. Sorry for the political analysis, but this movie was obviously made with an agenda in mind, many agendas actually. It's a shame, the animators did a fantastic job with it, at least with the budget they had. But, it's political motive is probably the main reason few theaters even carried it and it bombed even at those. People have no desire to pay good money to be preached at. And, they don't like being insulted by Hollywood elites that think we're too stupid to figure out what they are up to. Worse, it angers me that this one targeted young children. The one sided indoctrination continues. Don't get me wrong, I want to protect the environment, avoid war, treat all people as equals, etc, but a movie disquised as a story for kids is not the place for this, nor should it be in a movie we pay to watch. Whatever your political views are, there is an approprate time, place, and age to make a point. Why are there no animated movies about China mistreating thier citizens, or the Taliban using women as property, or Muslims committing genocide in Darfur? It's not appropriate, and neither is this. When Hollywood decides to make a movie that's simply fun entertainment for two hours, a lot more of us will return to the theaters again. Lately, it seems no one in Hollywood can find a story to tell where Americans have done at least one good thing anytime in our history.