Let me just start by saying that when I first saw Night Watch, I was really impressed; so impressed that I immediately went out and bought the book Night Watch, Day Watch, and Twilight Watch.  I'm definitely a fan and absolutely love the books.

I just finished seeing this in the theatre and walked away very disappointed. The action sequences seem fewer in this film as compared to Night Watch and the special effects have been cut back for some bizzare reason.  Aside from the end of the movie, I can't realy say that I was impressed with any of the action or special effects sequences.  Now before anyone says anything, keep in mind this is a world inhabited by witches, vampires, Others entering the Twilight,werewolves, shapeshifters, magacians, etc.  There were no vampire sequences, there were no interesting "magic" sequences. I believe that there was a 3 second sequence where a parrot turned into a human but that was it.  No werewolves, no vampires (at least not doing anything besides talking!), no spells, nothing.  This is a world built on magic and things "not of this world" yet we see hardly any of it!

Aside from those complaints, I was disappointed that the movie followed very little of what was actually in the book.  Even though the movie is called Day Watch, the ideas that are touched upon are based off of the first book, Night Watch.  Don't get me wrong: I know that most movies take liberties with the script and change things up from the original but Day Watch really takes it to the extreme.  I'm surprised the author let the director take such liberties with his work (although I noticed in the credits that the author, Sergei Lukyanenko, also had a hand in writing the screenplay).  In my opinion, I can't see anyone saying, "Hey, this movie is so good and compelling I think I'll go out and buy the book."  I felt that the first movie, Night Watch, was fascinating enough to warrant reading Mr. Lukyanenko's work.  What happened this time around?  I should also point out that the story is extremely confusing.  If you haven't read the books I'm afraid that you'll be left thinking, "Now who is that and what exactly are they trying to do...and why exactly are they doing that?"

Maybe it's just me but I definitely felt that there was a weird sort of campiness injected into the movie.  It felt reminiscent of what many American action directors do: someone does something and then the character makes some sort of witty, comedic remark.  It seemed like there was a 20 minute span were the diretor felt that the film needed to be injected with some artificial and goofy humor (let me just point out the bath/waterfall love scene between Anton and Svetlana...am I the only one that thought that was ridiculous?).  I was left feeling the humor was poorly done and really detracted from the movie.

If you're expecting the movie to bear any resemblence to the book series, then you'll be in for a big disappointment.  As for anyone out there who is saying, "Well, you just wanted the movie to be idential to the books," that's just not true.  The movie Night Watch took quite a few liberties with the actual book but I still felt that it was very entertaining and it left me wanting to see the next installment.  I was hoping for an entertaining, action-packed movie with an engrossing storyline, much in the same vain as the first movie, Night Watch, but instead I left the theatre feeling very disappointed.  I waited for over two months for this film to be released in my town and am really surprised that director/screenwriter, Timur Bekmambatov could make the world of Night Watch so unentertaining this time around.