The leather! The studs! The Harley! The whip! The smoke! The lasers! The cheesy 80's video effects! The two-story wall of Marshall stacks (which aren't even plugged in). THIS is Spinal Tap!!

  Okay, okay! There ARE some good points! While I would reccomed this for someone who is already a Priest fan, it would not be a good place for the newcomer to start.

  Every now and then, the band reached turning points where they improved as a unit. Among them, "Sad Wings of Destiny", "Stained Class", "British Steel", "Screaming for Vengeance", and "Painkiller". On "Vengeance", Glenn Tipton and K.K. Downing made a tremendous leap forward in their guitar playing, more so than any release preceding it.

  The song selection here is excellent, and I already mentioned the playing.

  However, there are some problems with the mix. As others have mention, sometimes Glenn's guitar is too low. But what I really noticed is, though the mix does generally have an excellent balance among the instruments, it is very dry. There's no ambient sound at all.(And before you think about the improvments of live sound production since that era, please refer to Lep Zepplin's 2003 DVD to hear what can be done with ancient audio). Priest "Live in London" is a good example of a good surround-sound mix. On Vengeance,there's no processing on the guitars at all. Just guitars cranked straight through the couple of Marshalls that WERE plugged in. A plus to that is you can hear every nuance of the guitar playing. But the mix sounds like Judas Priest are rehearsing in your living room, not playing to a packed arena. It's actually a bit headache-inducing!

  Another minor flaw, is the video looks dated. They could have fixed that, but it probably would have jacked the price up to something most wouldn't be willing to pay.( I picked it up at Super-Mega Taking-Over-the-World Retail Store for a little over ten-bucks (after tax). Some of the flaws actually kind of ad to the live vibe. (Even the bits of debris on a camera lens ever now and again).

  When Priest came out with the Electric Eye DVD, everbody was whining about "Why did they put the Turbo tour concert on there? Rob's voice was so much better on the Vengeance concert"

WHAT?! Even though I hadn't seen the Vengance concert for 20 years, I wondered what people were hearing. Most of us who have been Priest fans for a long time have figured out that Halford usually just isn't very good live. There are nights when he knocks it out of the park (even now), but he could really benefit from some instructions on how to do sing corecctly (even now).

 Watch this and the Preist...Live! DVD's back-to-back, and decide for yourself which one Halford does a better job on. My money's on the Turbo concert...I'd even dare say he knocked it out of the park! If we could just magically combine all the best elements of the two DVD's, we'd have one helluva Priest concert DVD.

  While it may have sounded like I was bashing this release, I'm not. I've been a Preist fan for a long time, and I think any other long time fan would enjoy this.After all, there are a lot of Priest classics played in the set! The newcomer, however, would be better off to start with the CD's "British Steel", "Screaming For Vengeance", the oft-overlooked "Defenders of the Faith" (c'mon people..."THE SENTINEL"!!) and "Painkiller". Then check out the Dallas concert on the "Electric Eye" DVD (which also contains many cheesy promotional videos!) and THEN check out the "Vengeance DVD".