I normally love Christian films, and overall, I liked the plot in this - but the script does have some faults.

First, Jeff KNEW he had never signed the divorce papers, so legally he was still married... yet he is getting ready to PROPOSE to another lady?! Seriously??

Next, the reasoning behind Heather not wanting to move back in with Jeff is a bit twisted. She should've just expressed concern about the fact that she is now a Christian and he is not.  Instead they use the excuse that she shouldn't marry a non-believer, according to the Bible.  However, the reason many Christians don't approve of divorce and remarriage is because when we marry, we make our vows before God, so even if we divorce, in the eyes of God, we are STILL married.  Since they were previously married, they were technically STILL married, divorce papers or not.  I can't imagine ANY Christian pastor not encouraging a couple to restore their marriage.  It wasn't like she was wanting to marry someone ELSE.  Even if Jeff HAD signed the divorce papers, he was STILL her husband in God's eyes.  The movie has this part of the plot completely twisted and perverted, in my opinion!!

Lastly, throughout the movie, it shows Jeff's faults, of always putting work before family.  But there is nothing at the end to show he really changes from this behavior.  He does tell her, "I want what you have," but if I'd written the story, I would've had Jeff eventually coming to church with her, and finally make an open profession to accept Jesus.

I was glad for a story about a restored marriage, instead of the usual "forget the ex, find someone new" story line we often see.  But in my opinion, the producers have not portrayed accurate Christian beliefs, and they missed an opportunity to make a really great movie.  For movies about marriage restoration, "Fireproof" is MUCH better.

One last thing - I couldn't stand the pastor in the movie - that creepy smile - he seemed very fake, and eerily reminded me of Warren Jeffs, the polygamist cult leader.  ICK!!