The visuals are neither "breathtaking" nor is the action "heart-stopping," as the cover would have you believe.  In fact, most of the props look like they were made with with sheet tin and spray paint, and *I* could have done better martial arts choreography.  =/

This is not a bad movie.  It's simply not a *good* one.  I tolerate it because I have a weakness for Asian fantasy armor, and honestly that and an interestingly done romantic triangle are only reasons to buy this movie.

Unlike previous films coming out of China, showcasing their wealth of raw human talent with spectacular martial artists, acrobats and set designers; The Promise plays like a B-movie by making the mistake of attempting epic scope with a shoestring budget.  Very sad.  =/

In many respects this movie plays very similarly to a previous Korean film called Musa: The Warrior.  Both feature a similar love triangle (slave, general, princess); the armor of the major characters attempts similar grandiosity; in both we are given the weak *suggestion* of a cast of thousands (in Musa by representing the entire Mongol hoard with a dozen or so badguys who change costumes; in The Promise by using bad CG), and in both the viewer gets the distinct impression that there's a great deal left to be desired.

UNLIKE Musa, some of the actors in The Promise can actually act -and Dong-Kun Jang and Cecilia Cheung deliver excelent and emotive performances as the slave and the princess.  Previous commentors have noted that while most of the acting in this movie seems wooden or trite, there are indeed several moving scenes, and they're all when these two are put together on screen.

If you have watched The Warrior and enjoyed it -I did, despite its obvious lackings- you will enjoy this.  This isn't a deep, resonant morality play like Curse of the Golden Flower, and it isn't a luxurious spectacle like House of Flying Daggers.  It CERTAINLY isn't anything like the masterpieces that Hero and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon were.
It's an okay movie. Enjoy it or avoid it for what it is.