Although cliche at times, Terminator 2: Judgment Day became a mountain of a movie, thanks to a terrific performance by Robert Patrick as the stealth T-1000 advanced killer, as well as our new reprogrammmed hero, the T-101 (Schwarzenegger). Since those events that took place in 1991, John Connor has lost his mother, Sarah, to lukemia. He's a young man now, living away from the grid of society, and drifting endlessly through America on a motorbike.
 In the wake of the city night, a shapely nude female (Kristanna Loken) emerges from time travel, and kills a civilian, taking her leather body suit and car. She's the new Terminator, the T-X. More advanced and lethal than the T-1000, it can change it's appearence and multiple weapons at will. Kind of like a sexy walking 'Guns "R" Us'. Elsewhere, Arnold materializes out from time travel in the desert, and again finds duds in a strip bar that look better than his other two leather ensembles from both movies. The T-101 has good taste. 
John breaks into a vet lab for some pain killers after a motorcycle accident. The veterinarian, Kate Brewster (Claire Daines) arrives to investigate and discovers Connor, who are then both discovered by the T-X. They are near mincemeat status when Arnold shows up and drives his stolen 4x4 into her head on. Owch. Connor is stunned to see another T-101 save his hide for a second time. He finds a way to convince the new victim, Kate, about the future and who he is, and who John will become, although it understandably takes a while.
After a healthy start, the chase is on as out female T-X stops for nothing to eliminate John and Kate as their existence in the future jeopardizes all machines. There's plenty of running around and a clumsy truck/car chase that's not very interesting. A lot of the fight sequences are quick and dealt with. Arnold and Loken also get in a fist fight for a moment that turns into a throw around. Oh, what a fight (yawwwwwn). How many times the two humans duck energy blasts and missles, or yell, "Run for it!" is beyond me. There's no outsmarting or clever sequences, minus one near the end. The effects are more than great, animation, explosions, you name it. This is how the movie holds itself afloat to some point.
Terminators, regardless of what model they are, should almost kill you with their stare, or even physique. Loken is the new villan, and given the title, she delivers only moderate shivers. Mechanically, she has the stare and walk of a Terminator down pat-you bet, and her act does convince us quite well. Her T-X is not very intense and doesn't scare us as much as Robert Patrick's stealth T-1000. Schwarzenegger gets good marks for his beefy T-101 Terminator, and even though he "is the one" to play this role, I sometimes curl an 'oh brother' smirk when I listen to the cyborg relenquish a Belgian accent. 
Stahl gives a neat change with the role of John Connor, who, because of the scenarios that he went through with his mother, one protector Terminator, and one killer Terminator, seems more in a state of disbelief and drunk from sadness. Claire Danes also has a neat performance as a young woman who would soon realize what the future holds, and without making her another She-Rambo, toughens up, but realistically.

There is something missing in this movie that a lot of people don't immediately recognize. For John and Kate, Judgement Day is unavoidable. It was only delayed from last time. The fear of what it will bring is only moderately considered by the two humans. Most people would be so hysterical, knowing that it's guaranteed the world will be obliterated, minus a few thousand humans. The amount of pure dread from these two is hardly enough. 
This movie would have been much better, say, if we took a trip into the bleak future, where humans are scattered across the lands, and machines seem unstoppable. That would have made a great movie and should have been the premise of this third installment. Personally, the time travel thing is enough.  
The only way, besides showcasing great effects and some neat tricks, "T3" does give us an ending that could have been more devestating, but still gives us a shiver. This is really the only time in the movie where Stahl and Danes finally inject a lot of fear into the horrifying inevitable. T3 is not very impressive, and I wished that the ending, although effective, was even deeper.