Having known and loved the movie "Porky's" for well over 14 years now, I was recently able to watch the film with a new and fresh perspective.  First off, let's take a look at the story, it's protagonists  and antagonists.  On the surface the film is nothing more than the raunchy  good time about a bunch of kids trying their darndest to get into girls  pants and the hijinks that ensue.  Great premise, the movie made a mint,  and unfortunately spawned 2 bad sequels.  But what interested me most  recently was how the idea of Porky and his fellow antagonists was handled  in comparison to the "gang" of kids.  What did Porky represent?  Liberalism.  He ran a brothel and gambling facility, two establishments  illegal in most areas of the country for rather conservative reasons, and  he ran it in an area hidden away from most of the population, making it  attractive it to those on the fringe.  What harm was Porky really reaking  on Society?  None.  His patrons seemed to be having a good time and things  got a little rowdy every now and then, but for the most part these  activities are plain and simple human vices, not unlike those society deems  legal.  All of a sudden a group of clean cut conservative boys, not of age,  decide to check "Porky's" out.  They're outsiders in this area,  and dangerous outsiders at that.  They represent everything Porky stands  against:  the establishment.  So when Porky decides to teach these boys a  lesson, causing absolutely no harm whatsoever other than embarassment and a  few bucks out of their pockets, the pride of the establishment is  threatened.  What happens when the establishment is threatened by outside  forces?  The outside forces are promptly destroyed.  Porky seems to be a  patient man, giving these boys a chance to go back to where they came from,  but when pushed he shoves back.  Is this reason to destroy his livlihood as  the boys did in the final act?  Is this reason to celebrate in the end?  WE  showed those BAD people whose RIGHT. Porky's, if looked at objectively,  tells a tale much deeper than it's surface hijinks.  That being said, the  movie's a riot.  The shower scene is classic.