I was a big fan of Roswell's first two seasons.  It was a great dramatic show that had found a nice mix of romance, comedy, drama, and action, all rolled into a great group of characters as they struggle with an otherwordly secret.  I didn't like everything they did, especially in Season 2, but the overall charm of the show never died.  Until Season 3.

I found Season 3 to lack the substance and quality of the first two years of the show.  They changed the show too much, and the changes are mostly not for the better.  Here are some reasons why Season 3 doesn't measure up:

1) Its a good thing for characters to change over the course of a series, but change for the sake of change is not always good.  For example: While the growing maturity of Michael's character (while still maintaining some of his rebellious tendencies) in Season 3 was a great change and wonderfully handled.  On the contrary, the growing immaturity of Valenti was not a great change.  He went from villain in Season 1 to trusted friend and ally of the alien group in Season 2, but he always brought something of a mature presence to the teenage series.  He's the adult's perspective on the secret, you could say.  While the changes in Season 3 sort of fits what happened to Valenti in Season 2, can we really fit the image of rocker boy Valenti dating younger girls in Season 3 with the authority figure he was even after he lost his job in Season 2? Not really.  At the same time, some characters didn't change at all.  Kyle, for instance.  He is still the comic relief Buddha boy who can't get laid.  They could have really done some

better things with him, and only waited to the end of the season to add to his character.

2) The way the writers handled many of the characters' development and relationships in Season 3 really stunk.  Case in point-Isabel.  When we leave off at the end of Season 2, she is mourning Alex's death and dancing with his ghost at his grave.  Then, boom-Season 3 begins with her kissing and making out with some character we were just introduced to.  Big mistake.  It totally disregards the fact that Isabel has just lost her first true love, killed by a girl she considered a friend no less.  Also, we don't even know who this new guy Jesse is as a character and she is already all over him.  It makes her look like a cold, self-absorbed girl who is horny and wants a hot, money making husband. Now, if they had shown how their relationship developed, and given more distance between her post-Alex mourning period and her hook up with Jesse, then it might have been a great development for her character.  But it was handled poorly, and bringing Alex's ghost back a few episodes into the season to tell Isabel its okay to marry Jesse only slightly repaired some of the damage.  Plus, it sends a bad message to young women.  Get married right out of high school when your 18 to an older guy when you are just starting college?  Uh, not what I would recommend.

3) One of the best things about Roswell was the group dynamic between the friends.  That is mostly lost in this season.  There isn't really a group.  They are just a bunch of individuals who only seem to see one or two of the others at times.  Also, there is a real lack of feeling this season that these teenagers are....well, teenagers.  That was part of Roswell's appeal was the fact that these are young people who are trying to deal with problems that would confound most adults.  Did we even see them in school more than once or twice this season?

4) Most of the plots in Season 3 were absolutely moronic.  An old guy who runs a drug company wants to drain Max's life energy?  Max goes to hollywood?  Max and Michael impersonate Air Force personnel to get onto a base to rescue a pilot who the Air Force wants to kill?  Liz has powers now?  Khivar can beam his mind billions of light years and take over human bodies?  Absolutely dumb!  And I'm not going to even talk about the Bewitched parody!

Now, there were a couple of good episodes this season, such as Tess' return and the episodes surrounding Jesse's discovery of Isabel's alien origins.  The finale is good, too.  The only good overall plot thread they did was Max's father finally investigating his son's strange behavior. Other than that, this season is pretty much a wash. I bought the first two DVD sets, but I am skipping this one.