Having missed the movie when it was in theaters, I recently watched Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas on DVD with much anticipation.  I was sure Johnny Depp would do a knock-out job of impersonating Hunter Thompson, for one thing.  For another, I was looking forward to reliving some of the wilder days of my youth.

Imagine my disappointment when I discovered that Gonzo is really the star of the movie, with Hunter Thompson played as an ever cool but oft bamboozled sidekick who goes along with things no one should go along with, things like terrorizing an innocent waitress in a two-bit diner just for fun.  Worse, Johnny Depp speaks as if he has marbles in his mouth and an iron ring two sizes too small around his vocal chords. He throws off his lines in a monotonic strangled voice that fails to convey anything but disguised up-tightness.  Or perhaps a strangely detached form of insanity.

The depiction of the drug- and alcohol-addled perceptions of these two wild 'n crazy wastrals is masterfully done in many respects.  The camera captures Las Vegas as the lurid reality warp it is, even without the help of consciousness-altering substances. However, there's too much of this not-so-good thing.  It seems like one endless careen through a house of bent mirrors, without any unbent ones to bounce off of.  The viewer needs more touchstones in the non-Gonzo world by which to orient herself in the midst of the madness.  A less relentless onslaught of high jinx would also have been narratively more effective. I wanted to cry out, Enough already!  Take a break from this mother lode of post-adolescent rebellion and let us catch our breath.

As one who did my share of acid trips back in the day, I also beg to differ from the way that this experience is depicted in the film.  As I recall, anyway, there was way more to it than hallucinogenic morphs of party people into their beastly counterparts. The director (and perhaps his subjects as well) have left out the quiet but piercing insights into the nature of the universe, not to mention the molecules dancing in the walls. LSD really did change the consciousness of a whole generation, and for the better too.  This film offers no evidence of why.