This movie is misogynist and degrades black women. It really feels as if the filmmaker had a bad relationship with a black woman and then decided to make a movie about it, interviewing people to support his misogynist views. I've never heard of someone blaming their partner's race and gender for their failed relationship, but that's clearly what the film conveys. Personally, I think most of the issues he addresses in this film can be traced to just poor communication - something that can ruin any relationship.

The director was less interested in having an open dialogue than having a one-way rant about black women. The series of vingettes woven throughout the film are exaggerated and offensive in their stereotyping black women and portrayal of black men as passive victims of black female aggresion. No substantive analysis occurs, though a few of the interviewees (maybe 3 or 4) make some really insightful points that slightly challenged the director's point of view. But instead of delving further into these points - which the filmmaker should have done - he chooses to just gloss over it, re-direct the discussion to blaming black women, and continue the bland, repetitive cycle of "black women need to do this" and "black women need to do that." The filmmaker clearly wasn't interested in having his views challenged. You can hear him in the background as he is interviewing people on the street. His line of questioning is leading, biased, and (at times) overly aggressive and forces the interviewees (both men and women) to concede that black women have "issues." No where in the film does anyone talk about the trials and tribulations that black women face, though plenty of discussion is given to "how hard it is to be a black man" - as if black women are immune to things like racism, too, as well as sexism. The film doesn't address sexism/misogyny in the black community that may contribute to black female anger in the first place. Instead, the filmmaker reinforces hetero-normative patriarchal views in his talk of black women making bad decisions and their emotions needing to be controlled. Who is he or any other man to tell black women what they need to do?

Watching this film made me feel ashamed that such trash is being peddled in the name of offering a "black man's perspective." I'm a black man and I think this movie is crap.