This classic 40s thriller (from an unlikely source, MGM) is based closely on a novel by James M Cain. Drifter/chump Frank Chambers finds work at roadside diner, run by Nick Smith, a middle-aged man with a stunning younger wife called Cora (played to maximum effect by Lana Turner). Cora is bored, murderous and sees Frank as the man to change her life.

Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler are the kings of hardoiled crime fiction that became so influential in terms of America's 40s and 50s film noir cycle. James M Cain, though, is a writer whose twisted, perverted sensibilities and feverish prose, rightly offended the aesthetic sense of Chandler. His work also included Double Indemnity and Mildred Pierce. Cain's success lies in his shameless assault on our base instincts, and The Postman Always Rings Twice is a perfect example.

Sex and noir go hand in hand; in Chandler it was an undertone, beautifully played out in the sexual sparring of Marlowe and a variety of women (who mostly turned out to be bad). In Cain, it drips from every page. It taints the atmosphere, and goads the reader to seek whatever release Cain has in mind (typically unbridled/forbidden sex closely followed by absolute destruction).

As a sexually charged film noir, this version has two issues. First, MGM was totally wrong for something this sordid. Meet Me in St Louis? I don't think so. Second, the strictly enforced production code, which forbade open displays of sexual behaviour, severely restricted all efforts to convey the raw passion at the heart of this tale. Still, despite those problems, this remains not only the best version of the story, but a highly memorable film noir. Perhaps even because of the ban placed on sexual behaviour/nudity, the erotic tension is heightened. No one who ever sees Lana Turner's sultry introduction as Cora will ever forget it. For the film's duration you could believe that in Nick's godforsaken diner on that hot and dusty highway, Cora could tempt you into almost anything.

Worth noting is that this DVD also contains the trailer, and a 55 minute documentary on John Garfield, a great actor whose every performance was imbued with a sense of doom. Garfield died, aged just 39, in 1952, following career-damaging attention from the U.S. Congressional House Committee on Un-American Activities.