As someone who loves the Escaflowne series, this movie was very disappointing. I had been receptive to a great deal of the hype, but that was pretty much all it was. Trying to re-tell the series in one movie wasn't the best move.

There were obviously character changes. I was never a fan of Hitomi in the series, and her character hasn't improved in the movie. I couldn't even tell if the movie was trying to imply a romance between her and Van, as it was in the series. Folken, who was a very dynamic character in the show, is more like a villianous pawn for the animators; a tool for stirring up conflict.

Overall, the movie has highly detailed animation, but little worthwhile character development, and not much of a plot. Some of the character designs are nice, but others are awful. Some look a a great deal like the series counterparts, but others, such as with Folken or Millerna, looking nothing like them. Personalites have also changed as well. Hitomi is rather depressed, although we don't really know why, so it's easier to chalk it up to the drama of being a teenager. Van is all angst and not much else. The movie mostly drags you along for the ride. If you're an action buff, this may be good for you.

The one character who didn't change and I found I enjoyed about as much as his anime counterpart was Dilandau. Still insane, still likes to watch things burn.

This 3 disc set also comes with the soundtrack, which makes the set a little more worthwile (and why I gave this review 3 stars). Yoko Kanno's work is top notch, and Maaya Sakamoto's vocals are pleasing to the ear. The theme song, "Yubiwa" doesn't fit the movie, but it's lovely and a nice song that can stand by itself. "Sora" is also another nice track. I can only thing of two tracks on the whole CD that I didn't like. There's a variety of instrumentals and orcehstra pieces, definately worth looking for as a seperate purchase for those who are into movie soundtracks.

The last disc, which contains extras, was a disc I honestly didn't look at at much. If you're interested in behind the scenes work or character designs, you may get more out of it than I did.

If the movie was aiming for as high standards as the series, it failed. Instead of a re-telling, I think a sequel to the series would have been much more successful, and it's a shame they didn't go that route.