Maybe it was just my set, but I had some difficulty getting the Star Trek  plastic casing open.  Once inside, the box housing the 10 HD DVDs was dented and scratched.  The plastic disc holders protect all the HD DVDs except for the first one which is exposed.  Because of that, the first disc had some superficial scratches.  Personally, I did not like the packaging at all.

Once I figured out the rather odd menu system, I watched the first episode.  The first thing I noticed was that the colors were far more vibrant than in the unrestored edition. The image was quite clean, although there is a fair amount of grain -- which stems from the original master.  The image is also noticeably dimmer than the unrestored version which tended to be a little washed out.  The reduction in brightness is very apparent but gave it a more vibrant look.  There were only a few instances of specks on the print.  The HD DVD version is just slightly more detailed and clear than the SD counterpart.  There is not a huge difference, however, which is somewhat surprising to me.

The 2.0 audio sounded full.  It lacked the "tinny" sounds of other older 2.0 audio tracks that I have heard.  I did notice the volume levels were quite low using the True HD soundtrack.  I had to turn up the volume about 20% higher than I usually do. Dialogue was very clear and understandable.

The commentary tracks and the extras are very good.  In fact, I enjoyed viewing the episodes with the commentary on much more than without them.  The amount of time devoted to information and commentary is extensive.

I believe the high price of the set reflects the costs involved in the extras and the restoration efforts.  If you are not interested in the extras or the new digital effects, it would be difficult to justify the price.  On the other hand, if you are a true follower of Star Trek and want not only to view the episodes but also learn large amounts of trivia, it is probably worth the high price.

I would give Star Trek -- The Complete First Season the following grades:

Packaging - 2/5
Menus - 2/5
Picture Quality - 4/5 (HD DVD)
Audio Quality - 3/5
Extras - 5/5

Overall:  3.75/5