First, I do not want to ruin sales for amazon.com, but I have to tell you how bad this film is.

I have lived in the island for over 42 years and studied the genealogy and history of Hawaiians, including the royal lines for more than 30 years.  I totally understand how "Hollywood" takes liberties in the making of films, but when you are portraying a beloved Princess from a time in recent history, I can't believe why they would put so many untrue facts into this movie.

This may be a nice "fantasy" film to be enjoyed by caucasians on the mainland unfamiliar with Hawai`i, it's history and culture, but it is a disgrace to the Hawaiian people and an insult to the `ohana (family)of the late Princess Ka`iulani.
Princess Ka`iulani was NOT exhiled to England for her safety, she was sent to England for an Education in preparing her for her role in the monarchy as leader of her people.  She may have known but NEVER had a romantic relationship with Clive Davies.

As a former Kumu Lei (Lei Teacher) at Kamehameha Schools, I was disappointed at many of the lei worn throughout the movie of materials not available at the time of Ka`iulani's life and especially of the quality of the lei presented to Ka`iulani in the scene shot at Kailua Beach park.  It was extremely poorly made and falling apart.  It is not the quality of lei that would have been presented to an ali`i (royalty).  It should also have been presented in a pu`olo (ti leaf carrier).

I don't know what the end of the film came with Ka`iulani dumping all her "so-called" favorite shells into the ocean.  Why didn't the film end with the actually end of her life - when she had gone to Waimea (Kamuela on the Big Island) and after riding, became ill and passed away.

I could go on, but I think you can see, the entire film is filled with untrue facts, improper costumes/props and twisted History.  It is no wonder many many bad reviews quickly spread throughout the islands at it's release.  I watched the movie on the 1st day of release and there were only 11 people in the entire theater.

A BIG disappointment.  I would NOT recommend the movie to anyone.  Sorry....