Before anyone who is expecting a good old-fashioned Good Cop V.S. Bad Asses action thriller, hold your horses. Although it is unlikely that anyone who really enjoys a piece of fine motion picture should be disappointed by "Serpico", there are no nature-defying stunts, bloodthirsty lengthy shoot-out, or high-speed downtonw car chase. All you will get, is a near-perfect blend of gripping story (based on true event), mesmerizing performances, and skillful yet subtle and minimal directing. "Serpico" is not a story about a supercop on his way to solve a gruesome crime done by some twisted psychopath, with extreme force or genius instincts. Yes, "Serpico" is a courageous and heroic figure, but he is also as down to earth as your next door neighbor painting his house. This is about a personal struggle, a tough test on a individual's hope, faith, and moral. While this movie may not be described as an epic masterpiece, it is indeed a milestone in cinematic achievements.
By this DVD, Paramount did a great job preserving this film that made Al Pacino being reconized as one of the finest actor in our era. The picture is sharp and clean, though at time the colors may seem muddy. The 5.1 Dolby Digital is as good as you could expect from a sound track remastered from it's mono original. Whileas it may not give your surround system a good workout, it does provide a better dimension to some of the much-needed ambience.
For extra, "Serpico: from Real to Reel" is a short documentary about the birth of this movie, and "Inside Serpico" is a longer behind-the-scenes featurette which reveals more lights from the history, production, and the public reaction upon its release back in 1973. Most part of these documentaries conisists largely of newly-filmed interview clips with producer Martin Bregman and director Sidney Lumet. To top it off, there is also a 2 minutes, yet somehow redundant "Serpico: Favorite Moments" interview clips with Bregman and Lumet each talking about their favorite part of the movie. All these could be string together to be a more fluent featurette, but I guess by seperating them this way, they could make the Special Features resume looks more impressive.
There is also a Photo Gallery and a Original Trailor available.