Once again I was excited to see yet another Lord Steven film.  After a series of dung heaps, a couple years ago he came out with a great film 'Belly Of The Beast'.  Despite his tremendously out-of-shape body, obvious stunt doubles, and excessively nappy hair, the movie was great.  It got me excited about Lord Steven again.

Then about a year ago 'Out Of Reach' was released.  I was super-excited.  Boy, was I horribly disappointed in that pile of doodie.  He had completely let himself go, didn't even bother dubbing his own lines, and his hair was even nappier than ever.

I should have learned my lesson to never get excited over another Seagal flick.  But alas, once again I was lured in by the upcoming release of 'Into The Sun'.  I bought it the day it came out, came home and immediately it went into my DVD player.  An hour and a half later I wanted to beat myself up for having not just rented it.  Obviously I should have known better.

The first few minutes of the film lulled me into a false sense of hope, Lord Steven seemed to have actually gotten in better shape than he's been in years and he gets to show off his proficiency in the Japanese language.  Other than that, there is nothing remotely redeeming about 'Into The Sun'.  The plot is muddled and ridiculous, the supporting cast is a joke, and the whole two fight scenes in the movie(clocking in at about two pathetic minutes combined)are a joke.  The climax is, well, completely anti-climatic.  This movie is a mess and one of the most boring films I've ever seen.

The blame should be squarely placed on the director, who is some guy named mink(ohh, he must be super-important to not even capitalize his name).  The script wasn't great, but it was decent enough if it had been padded with some killer fight scenes, which is what you want in a Seagal flick.  The setup was generic, but it could've been a good, bloody, mindless action flick that satisfied.  Instead, we get another boring pile of mush.

Total doodie.  Only rent this if you are a Lord Steven fan.  If not, pass on it without a second thought.