An ok movie that could have been so much better. One of the main problems starts right off with the title, and main premise.  It's just not believable that anyone has 27 girlfriends, much less that they all get married, and you are a bridesmaid each time.  If they had made it 10 dresses, it would have already been too much...but 27....Please.

Next problem the first 5 minutes of the movie, Jane (Katherine Heigl) attends two weddings on the same night.  Already stretching it, but more so when it's made clear she organized the 2 weddings.  She goes from one wedding to another changing each time in a taxi she has hired for the evening. Right, if she was planning these weddings and was so close to the brides, couldn't she convince one of them to have her wedding the next day?  Please....

After this, there are all sorts of problems with character development.  Jane is supposed to be an extremely sweet person who can never say no; but the manner in which she decides to tell her sister's fiance the truth is so far out there, it's not credible even as an extreme case of repressed anger.

Her life seems to revolve around being a bridesmaid, and reading the wedding editorials...they could have had her do this without it being the central focus of her life.  Even her "love" for her boss seemed to come second place to her obsession with weddings.

Her boss falling in love with her sister is totally not credible.  She looks trashy in her too-short dresses.  Admitting that opposites attract (he an outdoors man and she a sophisticate), would be more acceptable if she looked a bit classier.  The way she was dressed most of the time was more conducive to a one-night stand than to a marriage proposal, which by the way came way too fast.

The actor who plays Kevin gives an uneven performance.  It looked like he was acting sometimes.  But I blame the director for this...they should have re-shot some scenes.

Worst of all, the dress changing scenes.  How many times do we have to rehash Pretty Woman?

Ok, I know I'm not supposed to take these romantic comedies so seriously, but do they have to dumb them down so much?  Have any of these writers/directors ever watched "When Harry met Sally"?  Please do, maybe you can learn a thing or two.

Conclusion:  Watch if you like Katherine Heigl (only reason I gave it 3 instead of 2 stars) and are looking for a really light fare.

Otherwise, skip it.