I am a big Dalek fan. I have all the classics that are still obtainable on DVD and even an alarm clock that threatens to "Exterminate" me every morning, so I was eager to see my old friends again. Now I wish I had not.

One thing about the Daleks that I always loved is even with the limited effects used in classic "Who" they still managed to be an intimidating enemy. Even in their first appearance they were still "Daleks". However in this story they are little more then pest, not scary, not all that dangerous, and easily defeated by every weapon used against them. Their charm is gone and they are puppeted worse then ever before. They wiggle, they wobble, the shake at the costume seams, they can be stoped by a door. I had to turn my Dalek figur on the mantle the other way so it could not see this disgrace. Basically they appeared to think that Daleks are scary because they roll around and shoot at things. Totally missing the core part of what makes Daleks scary, the totality of their evil, the way they will scrap an entire planet for a valuable grain of sand and clearly have the means to do so.  Wimpy Daleks mean a bad Dalek story.

The story itself is silly. The Doctor would never just bring something so dangerous to an inhabited planet. Even the roughest of his incarnations would never willing put people at risk for a hiding place. Sure the idea of trying to make a close link to the first story for the 25th was nice, but it was poorly done. The Doctor was a traveler, he could have been on earth for a million reasons, watching us take our first steps into space, it was an interesting time in our planets history where we were becoming more of one world then just waring empires, lots of nifty stuff, but endangering our planet hardly sounds like the Doctor.

I won't get into the portrayal of the Doctor because I am new to Mr. McCoy as the Doctor and it takes a bit to get used to a new guy in the old TARDIS. The reasons I have listed are enought to say sadly that this one is a miss on too many levels to be worth it. Hope for Netflix if you want to see it.