My similarities to "Kathy", the show's main character: I have stage iv cancer, a teenage son and work in a school. The only realistic portrayal in this show is when the teenage son wants to spend all his time with friends, texting his girlfriend and continuously asks for money.  Oh, and also the neighbor, Marlene, is somewhat believable. They were stupid for getting rid of her. I loved the way she looked and dressed, she was a cute character.

I've never been a fan of Laura Linney.  In the Big C, as Kathy, she displays many stereotypical traits of a certain kind of TV mom.  The most glaring of these traits is her quest to find fulfillment by having flirtations and/or sex with men she's just recently met.  To think that numerous men find this 40 year old woman that sexy is shear fantasy. And why is she turning to people she barely knows in a time of crisis? It's also weird that this woman has no strong, lasting friendships with anyone her own age. However, she renews contact with a friend whom she hasn't seen in 15 years (played excellently by Cynthia Nixon who lights up the screen). But Kathy lacks much depth.

It's also bizarre that Kathy spews out words like penis and vagina around her family members as if she were saying ear or elbow. I have lots of family yet we do not have these kinds of crude and vulgar conversations.

Here's the reality: when you receive this kind of diagnosis, you don't go around acting so frivolous.  It's a fantasy to think you throw caution to the wind and do whatever you please. There are very heavy, dramatic emotions you deal with.  People always say, oh, what would you do if you knew your time was limited? as if it would be a pass to do all the things you always wanted to do but never have.  More reality: you can be so sad and depressed and your loved ones can have such a difficult time dealing with this that you don't go around "living it up".

Ha, ha, after all this critiquing of the show, I still want to watch the second season.  But still giving it only 3 stars.