Summerslam 2003 offered too many no hold barred matches with few satisfactory winners. Some of the matches are very entertaining to watch while others might have been better on Raw or Smackdown.
World Tag Team Championship Match: La R&eacute;sistance v. the Dudley Boyz.
This match was a decent PPV-starting match, culminating to a boring (and relatively predicatble) ending. The Dudley Boyz have lost their zeal to wrestle. (4/10)
Undertaker v. A-Train.
This match was the worst of the night. Watching these two huge wrestlers go at it was a yawnfest as well, and the match never picks up. The ending is better than the match before, but all in all, this is honestly one of the worst Summerslam matches of all time. (2/10)
Shane McMahon v. Raw GM Eric Bischoff
Though not a spectacular manuever-based match, it's one of the most fun matches to watch with some great surprises and a "happy ending." (7/10)
US Championship Match: Rhyno v. Chris Benoit v. Tajiri v. Eddie Guerrero
Wow, this match was a lot more than I ever expected. Rhyno is a surprisingly good wrestler, and even though he was a bit heavier than his opponents, watching him in action was impressive. He delivers an awesome spine-buster in the heat of the match. A fun match overall. (10/10)
WWE Championship Match: Brock Lesnar v. Kurt Angle
Another match that turned out to be fun to watch. Kurt did most of the amazing work, and he proved to be a great fan favorite. The match wasn't as good as the Wrestlemania XIX match, but it definitely worked for a Summerslam. (9/10)
Rob Van Dam v. Kane.
Actually, this match was kind of dry. It turned out to be another beat-'em-up-badly match, and it's always fun to see Van Dam's energy, but there was a lack of passion in this match, and the ending is pretty stale. (5/10)
World Heavyweight Championship [Elimination Chamber:] Chris Jericho v. Kevin Nash v. Shawn Michaels v. Randy Orton v. Triple H v. Goldberg.
There are a few couple spots that are entertaining, but the elimination chamber isn't really used. It might as well have been a six-man elimination match. Little blood and a bad conclusion make for a disappointing finale. (6/10)
Overall, the PPV wasn't too bad, but it wasn't fantastic, either. Ironically, Smackdown! showed Raw who was boss.