I have not seen the DVD yet, but I do plan on buying the film. I saw it in the movie theater and it did at times feel like a trying experience. That said the film has a lot to offer.
On the positive side:
1)The production quality and makeup is a marked improvement over the paste-on beards of Gettysburg.
2)It is one of the first films on the Civil War that attempts to investigate a very important historical character, Stonewall Jackson.
3)The film, much to many peoples' annoyance, effectively conveys the religious nature of the Southern soldier. I believe that this cannot be stressed enough. So what if Stonewall Jackson quotes Scripture and appears to preach more than fight. Christianity was a tremendous driving force for soldiers on both sides of the war and a great religious revival happened in the army camps in the middle of the conflict.
4)I really enjoyed the music. The opening sequence of the changing flags was extremely well-done and how can you argue with Bob Dylan doing music for a war film. Strange isn't it?
5)Jeff Daniels once again did a fine job portraying the idealistic Joshua L Chamberlain.
6)The scene where the soldiers meet in the middle of the river during a truce shows the unique bond between soldiers present in all wars but especially in the US Civil War. It is a very important scene.
Unfortunately, the movie has many negatives which overshadow alot of the positives:
1)The biggest negative is the absence of either scenes or reference to major campaigns of 1862 and 1863. Conspicuously absent are Shiloh(understandable since the war focuses on the Eastern theater), The Seven Days Campaign around Richmond in June 1862, where Lee developed as an army commander and Jackson was arguably a failure and a nonentity because of fatigue, Second Manassas, a brilliant defensive battle fought by Jackson,  Sharpsburg/Antietam, a nominal Union victory with far-reaching consequences and the biggest blunder of them all, The Valley Campaign of 1862 in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley. This is an inexcusable blunder on the part of the director and the editors. Jackson developed his mystical reputation in Valley. The movie tries to argue that the Jackson mystique somehow developed at the First Battle of Manassas, not really true. The Valley Campaign defined Jackson as an independent commander and gave Robert E Lee the confidence to send him on detached duty in later campaigns like Second Manassas, Sharpsburg(where he captured Harpers Ferry) and his great flanking manuever at Chancellorsville.
2)The absence of General Hancock. Hancock is an extremely important character in Jeff Shaara's novel. He is given little more than passing treatment in this movie. While it is arguable that Hancock is a bit overrated historically as a general, he is an intriguing character, that we first meet in Gettysburg and wish we knew more about after Gods and Generals.
3)The montage scenes of Fredericksburg and Harpers Ferry are very poorly done. They look like paintings or really poor animation. I was very bothered by this in the theater.
4)The choice of Harpers Ferry as a location for the Fredericksburg urban fighting sequence. Anyone that has been to Harpers Ferry WV should recognize the steep streets and store fronts of Harpers Ferry. They are very unique. Director Ronald Maxwell should have selected a different location. I realize that this is nickpicking by a student of the Civil War, but it was still bothersome. Additionally, Fredericksburg had undergone serious bombardment before the infantry assault and in the movie it appeared that little damage was done.
5)The treatment of the slavery issue. Ultimately, aside from the absence of battles important to the development of the characters, the way Gods and Generals deals with slavery is quite weak. It is highly unlikely and probably historically inaccurate to contend, as the movie does that Stonewall Jackson had a deep relationship with his manservant. Granted the two may have been close because of the nature of the master-slave relationship, but to see the two waxing philosophically about slavery and religion in one sequence borders on shameful and made me uncomfortable because I have never seen evidence to support the notion that this scene contends. The two men are almost seen as equals, a reality that did not exist in the South in the times of slavery. 
Despite the negatives, Gods and Generals is still a decent film and one that I will own and watch multiple times, but I will not enjoy it as much as Ronald Maxwell's Gettysburg. I just hope that the last installment in the trilogy, The Last Full Measure irons out many of the problems inherent in war films, especially those dealing with very sensitive social, political and cultural issues.