Comic Book Villians is movie that seemed destined for the Gen-X set, ruthlessly cynical of our own human nature, form the very begenning the movie's central characters Ray(Donal Logue) and Norman(Micheal Rappaport) have already been pushed over the edge by their own greed and emptyness. 
The movie is told through the eyes of Archie(D.J. Qualls) a levelheaded type who lives on is own and collects comics although not as obsessively as Ray. Venturing almost every afternoon to the Ray's comic book outlet he exchanges factoids and insights with his brood. The town they live in is your typical small, white-bread everybody knows knows everyone kinda mid-western area. The only thing that keeps Arch going is his friendship with Ray. Across town Norman Link and his wife (Natasha Lyonne) have a similar store, although theirs is more profit based and not on the heritage of the famed books. 
Word spreads one day of a old man who croaked, this would mean little if he hadn't had collected comics his whole life, leading Ray to tears and Norman to expansion options. Everything from Superman's first appearence to every back issue is accounted for. The old man's mom though, refuses to sell. leading to a battle of wits between the two battling entrepeneurs. 
The heart of the movie is in it's characters, vulgar, witty and darkly obsessive are these men who spend there days in a lustful search for the ultimate collection. the best aspect of the film is Logue's stunningly convincing performance as he tries every sneaky trick to land his hands of the greatest collection ever known. Also effective is Qualls as Ray's hapless friend who remains utterly bemused by his friends obsessive behaviour.
Aesthetically the movie is pleasing to the eyes and ears, the music has a quasi-Batman style speed and haste, suggesting the pure insanity that these characters personify.
This movie is not for everyone,it deals with subject matter only interesting for Kevin Smith fans and comic enthusiasts, Logue commands the film but Rappaport remains a bit to inane and whiny, he seems funnier when acting black. Interseted partys will not be dissapointedif nothing more for then the atmosphere of pure dementia which the movie carries.