This is the worst film about Wallis Simpson/Edward VIII I have seen to date and, coincidentally or not, also the least historically accurate. I don't have a problem with filmmakers deviating from fictional stories (e.g., adaptations of books) but when depicting actual people and real history, I think they have a greater responsibility to be accurate. I am not expecting a documentary but why make stuff up when the real story is plenty dramatic enough for anyone as is? This film could have been made as the fictional story of "Alice" and "Edmund," heir to the throne of "Louvinia" if the makers felt too restrained by the facts. As for their physical romance, maybe the reason it hasn't been depicted in other versions is that the other versions were trying to be factual?  The Duke in his lifetime threatened to sue anyone who claimed there had been an affair. More telling: even during the abdication crisis, when the opposition specifically investigated the question in hope of finding dirt that would throw a spanner into Wallis' not-yet-final divorce (thus ending any question of Edward's marrying her), they found no evidence of an affair. The idea of women going about socially with men other than their husbands may seem odd to some viewers now, but it was common at the time for women of Wallis; social set and did not raise eyebrows unduly as long as conventions were maintained and until/unless it led to a breakup of the marriage(s). The Prince's previous two long-term attachments prior to Wallis were also married women.

The lead performances (Joley Richardson as Wallis and Stephen Campbell Moore as the Prince of Wales) - comparisons to other films notwithstanding - are dreadful. Richardson resembles Wallis, from certain angles anyway, but her voice grates with that same flat, generic "American accent" that I hear often in British productions. And though this is ostensibly a sympathetic portrayal of Wallis per the writer's comments on the DVD extra, I didn't see much that was likable or sympathetic about Richardson's take on Wallis. I also thought Stephen Campbell Moore was out of his depth in his role, does not in the least resemble the Prince, and at 26 was way too young to be convincing as a 40-something man of the world (I note that the Prince of Wales, though "boyish" was not, in fact, actually a boy when he met Wallis).

The 1930s sets and costumes are well done, down to little details like the Deco bottle of nail polish on Wallis' dressing table in the opening shot - it's too bad they were so sloppy in other respects. The 1978 miniseries, Edward & Mrs Simpson and The Woman He Loved, 1988 (unfortunately not on Region 1 DVD) tell this story much better with better casting and greater accuracy.