The problem with A SIMPLE PLAN is that its title is unfortunately accurate.  It's a little too simple, this plan.  The plot, not to mention the characterizations, are so frequently devoid of explanation that this morality play ends up drawing no conclusions we can apply to our own lives.  
Chief among the problems is the plot's genesis. How a plane could crash within reasonable proximity of Washington DC and not be discovered by authorities is frankly unbelievable.  Did all the radar systems on the ground suddenly go dead?  Did the NATSB suddenly forget how to triangulate location based upon the last known data received from the plane? Did they look for a day or so and then give up, just because there was some snow on the ground?  Some might call this nitpicking.  But it's absolutely crucial to the plot.  The story depends upon a money-loaded plane not being discovered by authorities, but we're never given adequate understanding of how that came to be.  It's as if the writers simply posited the existence of such an event and we're supposed to accept it without question.
It also misses the boat on characterization.  Fonda's character is wholly unsympathetic.  She makes such a radical emotional change we have little reason to care for her.  Indeed, this is kind of the problem of all the characters.  There is no motivation for their criminal acts, other than that circumstances made it possible for them to commit them.  The film would've been more compelling  if there had been some nobler motivation for their acts.  Self-preservation may be the kind of goal that leads to an examination of the darker side of the human psyche, but it is, again, too "simple" a tale.  To be sure, this is the tale the filmmakers obviously wanted to tell.  But it would've been far more interesting had the film been a cautionary tale about the dangers of noble ends being justified by evil means.
What the film lacks in plot and theme, it makes up for in acting.  Paxton is at perhaps his most powerful in this film.  Long relegated to supporting roles, or starring in fairly emotionally uncomplicated ones, we see here a depth that has been too long hidden.  His is the character under the most pressure and guilt, and he manages to almost carry the film away from its other problems.  Billy Bob Thornton, likewise, almost lifts the script from its own banality.
[DVD notes:  Nothing much of interest here.  Buy the VHS instead.]