Here is a blockbuster of the past that holds up well, not least for claiming one of the three most successful portrayals of Quasimodo.  The others are those of Lon Chaney in the 1923 silent, and Garou, in the original Paris production of "Notre-Dame de Paris," a mega-musical of such quality that even the French endorsed it.  Slouching, leering, spitting, and genuflecting by turns, Chaney seems to have vaulted straight out of nineteenth-century illustrations of the book.  Like Garou decades later, he conveys the anguished soul of the character while avoiding the bathos of too many adaptations.  But even Chaney cannot rival the sheer range achieved by Charles Laughton in this 1939 version.  If Chaney animates the illustrations, Laughton embodies the text, in such miracles of characterization as the communion in the bell tower between Quasimodo and Esmeralda.  Compared to this and Laughton's other appearances, a few earlier parts of the movie may seen engagingly dated, despite the fervent energy of the crowd scenes and the haunting evocation of medieval Paris.  At the outset, devotees of the book will be disconcerted by the transformation of the Spider King into a benign old gentleman; Claude Frollo, into an arch opponent of the printing press and other vehicles of modernity; and Gringoire, the bumbling poetaster, into a prophet of the New Deal.  If these alterations work in practice, major credit belongs to the actors, most notably Harry Davenport, who invests King Louis with the prescience of a fairy-tale alchemist.  Also central to the success of the film is the Esmeralda of Maureen O'Hara, impossibly immaculate amidst her ordeals yet radiating all the beauty of person and heart of Hugo's original.  The spectacular rescue from the gallows of Esmeralda by Quasimodo (for which Laughton, but not Miss O'Hara used a double) initiates a succession of scenes that transforms the film into a masterpiece, and Laughton's hunchback into the symbol of suffering, rebellious humanity.  Of the DVDs available, this new one from Warner Home Video is recommended: a high definition print with emphatic chiaroscuro, acceptable sound, and extras that include a brief but informative documentary, featuring an engaging interview with Maureen O'Hara.