McCourt set out to make a miserable movie about a miserable place in a miserable time.  He wanted to succeed in painting a picture so drab and weary that you're likely to leave the theater feeling guilty that you have no holes in your pockets and wonder bread in the cubbard.  He does succeed, he's made a fine picture, but he's made it for himself and not us.  It's about a grown up boy from Limerick coming to terms with the past, it's really him behind the camera releasing the pain as if it were an Exodus from Egypt.  Angela's Ashes is therapy for him.  It's angry, and I think that's fine, because he just about convinces us that he has the right to make this kind of movie even if we don't.  It goes to supersede the kind of realism that the Italians were talking about.  Fellini wrote and directed about childhood poverty, but not this kind of poverty, he wanted us to identify with the universal human spirit whereas McCourt doesn't think we have the right to.  He says that even if you're poor in America you're not this poor, and if you are you can still tell your father you love him without being laughed at.  There are some emotional payoffs in the movie: his aunt's unexpected kindness, his first sexual experience, his luck in finding passage to America.  But the movie isn't about those scenes, the script and direction don't treat them with the same kind of meticulous care.  They dance on the brink of being superfluous, they make the film uneven; those scenes don't belong in the kind of movie he really needed to make.  The contrast isn't strong enough, but it's a good film, and I hope you see it, just like I hope McCourt is able to find some closure.  After all, that's who you're really rooting for, the man who wrote the book, the voice over that assume his identity; You're just not too sure about the characters on the screen.  Receiving a film is a completely subjective.  It's very possible you may not respond to this kind of movie, you may think it too pretentious and too angry, or you may very well find it an enlightening experience.  It's worth discovering for yourself, isn't it?