Disc 1 - the movie.
I gave the movie only 3 stars.  I am a fan of the books, so it was inevitable that I was disappointed with the movie, but not for the reasons you might think.  Much was cut out, but that isn't what bothered me.  As the longest book in the series, it was a given that many things would be cut.  My main gripe is that the 5th movie installment didn't stay true to the story.  The other four movies managed to do that, despite all the subplots, etc that were left out.
First and foremost, this book is ALL about Harry's emotions; his frustration, his anger.  He is at the breaking point after years of being loved one minute and hated the next.  In the beginning, he is furious with Ron and Hermione, throughout the book he constantly battles with Umbridge, and at the end he explodes in Dumbledore's office.
He lands himself in detention with Umbridge several times because he just can't control his temper.  He struggles throughout the book with Dumbledore's apparent lack of caring.  He is worried about Sirius being locked up in Grimmauld Place, and he hates Snape for constantly antagonizing Sirius.  Harry begins to alienate himself from eveyone after the attack on Arthur Weasley because he think Voldemort might be possessing him.  None of this was portrayed adequately in the film, not to mention that he is both tormented and enthralled by the reoccuring dreams of the door to the department of mysteries.  All of these things lead up to Harry's explosion of rage in Dumbledore's office at the end.  It was not a quiet conversation.  Harry screams, yells, and smashes up the office.  He loses complete control and all his emotions come spilling out.  After which, Dumbledore proceeds to explain to Harry that it is all his fault, that he has known of the prophecy all along and that he should have told Harry sooner than he did.  He tells him that he was trying to protect him because he had come to care for Harry so much.  The true essence of that scene was lost in the film.
It just seems that directors are caving in to special effects and movie theatrics and losing sight of what the story is all about.

*On the plus side, I did think Umbridge was very well cast and I thought the possession scene with Harry was really great!  There were a few good moments in the film.*

 Disc 2 - special features.  I don't know what else to say except that they sucked!  The deleted scenes were nothing, just 20 second fillers.  I had hoped that there would be some really great scenes in there that they just didn't have time for.  The Tailing Tonks segment was terrible, didn't really show any of the behind the scenes operations in depth enough to give us any idea of how the movie was made.  There were no cast interviews, no explanation of script writing/changes - nothing.  It just seemed as though they had forgotten about the special features, so at the last minute they just threw a bunch of leftover stuff together.  It's my advice to not bother with the 2 disc special edition and just buy the movie itself.  It was a complete disappointment for those like me that love to watch "the making of..." featurettes.