RETURN OF THE JEDI was the third STAR WARS film, and it is the finale of the STAR WARS saga if watched in the order of the episode numbers.  This film managed to capture the action, character, humor, and spiritual themes of the earlier films for a third time.  However, this film is longer and features more kid-friendly elements(though the Rancor monster is not for small children).  By the time of this film's release, visual effects technology had reached a level where highly complex shots were possible with virtually no matte lines or other hints of visual trickery.  Relying on the previous film to develop the characters, this film focuses more on action, tying up storylines, and a long build to the climax of the saga.

 The first disk is essentially the same as the DVD released in 2004.  Given the quality of the original effects, there was little reason to replace them with newer ones. The addition of Hayden Christensen as Anakin Skywalker is illogical since Alec Guinness continues to play Obi-Wan Kenobi instead of Ewan McGregor.  The new musical numbers are inferior to the original numbers.  Other added scenes merely extend the length of the film, but changes to Han Solo's dialogue remove a character arc originally in the trilogy.

 The only reason to buy this DVD is for the "bonus material" of the original version of the film.  As reported, this DVD is not anamorphic and is based mostly on a previous video transfer of the film.  I have a wide-screen, high-definition television set, and the picture is better than I was expecting.  Although this is the newest of the original trilogy, the print used in this transfer is in much worse shape than the prints used for the other two films' "bonus material." Unfortunately, the subtitles for Jabba the Hutt are cropped off the bottom of a wide-screen television when the picture is expanded to fill the screen.  The Dolby 2.0 soundtrack is lackluster.

 Those with standard definition television sets should have no hesitance in purchasing this DVD for its "bonus material."  Watching it on a wide screen high-definition television involves trade-offs that would have been avoided with a typical anamorphic DVD.  Because of the music and character changes made in the special edition, the original film is the better film.  Film buffs should appreciate seeing what cutting-edge visual effects were in 1983.  However, first-time viewers may prefer the more state-of-the-art special edition.