Imagine the two dumbest people you've ever met. Now imagine those two in charge of returning your lost luggage. Wow, what a feat it would be if you ever received your luggage back. This film shows that even two idiots can deliver a briefcase across America when they put half their brains together. One of the underlying themes is that this is a love story, plain and simple. It's what really drives Carrey, and Daniels across country to deliver the goods.  Most of today's pure comedies tend to have a cast that isn't half as strong as Dumb and Dumber. Thankfully Time Warner made this movie in the early stages of several of the cast members careers. Names like Jim Carry who plays Lloyd Christmas, Jeff Daniels as Harry Dunne, these guys are lead actors equally sharing half the movie, and it's directed by the Farrelly Bros. to boot! It's hard to have a bad movie with those names on the scene, and this is no exception!  They say never do business with family, but that couldn't be less true for the Farrelly Bros. Very few first or second time directors have been able to produce terrific films in the same vein as Dumb and Dumber, so early in their careers. A few directors that have had similar movie success are Robert Rodriguez, Manoj Night Shyamalan, and Orson Wells. I can only interpret that we're on the cusp of a lot of laughs and more great movies by the Farrelly's.  Several slap stick movies tend to drag but this one continues to keep the audience moving. This is an Airplane, Naked Gun type film that has the viewers just itching to find out what these two numbskulls will say next. It's 101 continuous minutes of unbridled childish laughter.  In order to deepen the secondary love theme, the Farrelly's used two techniques music and symbolism. In one scene Carrey goes into a daydream-like state thinking about what life would be like with Lauren Holly, she plays Mary Swanson the beautiful `out of reach' woman who lost her baggage. Carrey tilts his head back, the camera moves in closer, and The Love Affair by Dick Walter starts playing. The audience knows that they are in the dream state because for the entire song they show continuity clips of Holly and Carrey having a wonderful life together. Great use of editing to music, even the proverbial beach running scene even makes a cameo. One attempt at symbolism is in the same dream sequence, Carrey hugs Holly and about ten doves fly out of nowhere from behind them. The doves symbolize the innocents and immaculate cleanliness that is most typical of a dreamy love sequence.  Face time, ego and money rule the silver screen when it comes to big Hollywood names. Every once in a while you can find two lead characters split everything in the film, including jokes, mishaps, and adventures. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels share the screen and script perfectly. This is a movie that left the audience wondering, who's funnier, and who's dumber?