Martin Scorsese's 'Raging Bull' is his finest movie to date, a bleak look at 1940s middleweight boxer Jake La Motta. Seen by Scorsese as his final film, the New York director crafted a brilliant, mesmerising movie that captivates and shocks with its brutallity. Jake La Motta - an up-and-coming boxer - cannot get a shot at the title unless he gives in to the local mafia. This is a story typical of any boxing movie, but the plot is not the essense of the film, La Motta is. Based on a true story, Scorsese has used La Motta's autobiography loosley to explore the tormented, paranoid, insecure mentality of the character. The plot is arguably flimsy in this sense. Many scenes that occur in the movie have not occured at all in real-life, and other scenes are moulded perfectly for the film. For example, the real-life friend of La Motta, Joe Savage, and the boxers brother, Joey, are embodied in Joe Pesci's character Joey, La Motta's on-screen brother/manager. The script is dedicated to La Motta's struggles, in and out of the ring - he gets scared, so he beats his wife, he's worried, so he hits his brother - his only emotional outlet is violence.
'Raging Bull' was made at a very personal time for Scorsese, and this is reflected much in the film - the black and white photography, the unsympathetic look at La Motta, and even his wife and brother - there is no subjectivity in this film. This is particularly emphasised at one particular scene when La Motta holds the belt after becoming champion and starts to cry - La Motta is charged with emotion, yet the scene is cut away with almost a harshness to life after the event.
Martin Scorsese, I feel, is one of the greatest - if not the greatest - active director about. He has created some of the great movies, but certainly not Hollywood movies. 'Taxi Driver', 'Goodfellas', 'Casino', 'The Last Temptation of Christ' - all brilliant in their own right, but 'Raging Bull' is his masterpiece. The acting throughout is flawless - Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriarty giving great performances as La Motta's punch-bags, but of course, they are outshone by Robert De Niro's earth-shaking portrayal of the Bronx Bull. It is my personal favourite of any celluloid-captured performance.
This is not a boxing movie, it is a character study. It treads on all of Scorsese's themes - a sinful protagonist, Catholic guilt, redemption, violence, etc. This is what cinema is all about - an artistic, stylish piece of filmmaking.