At long last the outrageous 1972 British farce, "The Ruling Class" has arrived on DVD in all its demented glory - and I do mean ALL as it includes an additional 13 minutes of footage to the "uncut" version released in 1983, making this a true "director's cut" running the complete 154 minutes. Director Peter Medak even supervised this restoration, and the entire Criterion Collection package provides enough extras (including Medak's 16mm "home movies" shot during the filming) for hours of viewing enjoyment. Play the brief trailer first (for comparison's sake) and you will see just how impressive this remastering is with strikingly deep color saturation and crisply upgraded monaural sound.
But even this glorious widescreen presentation can hardly contain the quirky antics and surreal goings-on that parade before your eyes and ears. Medak has directed this potentially unwieldy material by aiming to get the biggest laughs out of even the most trifling bits of humor, be they visual or verbal, front-stage or in the background. And he keeps the pace so frenetic you won't be bored for a minute.
Brooding more deeply than he did in "Lawrence of Arabia", shouting louder than he did in "The Lion in Winter", Peter O'Toole plays the 14th Earl of Gurney, a royal heir considered "bonkers" by his relatives, who is right at home as Jesus Christ sprawled over a giant cross, or as Jack the Ripper brandishing a switchblade. At one point, as the latter, he leads the cast in a rambunctious vaudeville version of "Dem Bones", one of several bizarre and hilarious musical interludes (including a striptease!) that crop up thoughout the film.  The supporting cast includes such high profile names as Alistair Sim, Nigel Green, Coral Browne and Harry Andrews; but, as with most British films, even the smallest role is cast to perfection.
This is one DVD that will definitely not collect dust on your shelf. You'll be pulling it down to show friends, or just to watch your favorite scenes when you need a good belly laugh.
As the 14th Earl asks early on, "Is everybody HAPPY?" Yes, indeed we are. And thank you again Criterion!