... and NOT, unfortunately, in a good way. This movie is everything I can't stand about the current status of an insipid, needlessly profane and uninspired Hollywood. First off, you've likely already seen "The Sitter," even if you've never seen it. What do I mean? This movie borrows... no, flat-out PLAGIARIZES many other (and far better) films that have preceded it. "Adventures in Babysitting" being the most obvious, of course. I have my issues with the big studios cutting corners, rushing projects and releasing titles the world could clearly do without, but let's face it: America is at its least educated state, yet. And unfortunately, that seems to come with the acceptance of a film like this. The humor is crude and not funny, the dialogue is contrived and weak and the "acting" is a joke (the actors didn't even seem to take this one seriously - it's as if the movie was edited together from behind the scenes outtakes where everyone is just playing around). Now, I love comedies. And I can enjoy the occasional odd-humored, socially-awkward-nitwit-who-has-lessons-to-learn kind of a movie. But this crosses the line. Namely, the content the young child actors are exposed to in this film is simply reprehensible. If you are a parent and you're okay with the type of behavior, jokes and language that are exposed to the kids here, then this review is not for you. I am talking to the people out there who still possess some semblance of class and morality. Because this script, quite frankly, was written for trash to enjoy. It's not as if anything in the movie was original or clever in any way, just rehashed ideas rolled in the gutter and served up as new. Mmmmm... delicious. But not really. By the way, I'm not a religious person or even a parent, so don't write me off as a ranting "nut" who can't hack some lewdness in his cinema. I love some dirt and grit in my movies, but it has to be well done. "Godfather," anyone? Anyway, I agree with the 'Booklover' review posted here, as well as a few others. Tell Hollywood you're not going to settle for this crap by not watching or purchasing it.

MY ADVICE: You wanna watch a well-written, well-acted version of this film in which the big, clueless, but ultimately lovable oaf-of-a-man unwittingly becomes the caretaker of children? Complete with indelible characters and truly funny dialogue? GO WATCH "UNCLE BUCK." Now THAT'S
a comedy. And your kids could enjoy it with you.  :)