I feel kind of bad giving this movie only 2 stars.  After all, I had a vested - in very minor - personal interest in Taking Woodstock.  It was largely filmed right down the road from my house, and I even got to be an extra in it (although I'm not sure I ever actually appear in it anywhere).  An interesting experience.  More interesting, by far, than the movie has turned out to be once I finally saw it.  You'd think, with a movie that had that sort of personal connection, I wouldn't get drowsy in the first 15 minutes, but I did.  It just... dragged.  Forty minutes into it, the person who was watching the movie with me seemed bemused by its "Woodstock" title, and also expressed a feeling that it was somewhat aimless, adding that "it seems almost like an amateur movie".

It's a tough movie to critique, I'm discovering.  It's hard to pick any one thing that you can hold up as particularly bad.  Maybe that's the whole point.  It doesn't feel like there's enough real substance or structure, or point, or anything to really grasp onto with Taking Woodstock.  In all the hours I sat around on "the set", waiting, watching and listening to what was going on, and observing Ang Lee directing, I remember thinking to myself that it didn't seem like he really knew what he wanted a lot of the time, that there was a certain vagueness to the vision.  Assistants often stepped in to try and clarify for people what was wanted, which came across (again, to me, at least) as contradictory and confusing.  And I guess that's how Taking Woodstock struck me: vague and unclear as to what it wanted to be.  It doesn't help matters that the movie can't even culminate in ending up at Woodstock itself - the actual event.  I understand the reason for that.  It's about one person who was pivotal in making the event happen, and the irony that he never manages to see the concert.  A window to the world of one insignificant individual....  Is that the point of this film?  Couldn't just about any of us be the subject of a movie then?  Well, I digress....

On the upside, Liev Shreiber as Vilma was a definite high point.  He was subtle and understated in a role that could so easily have been performed over-the-top by anyone else.  I only wish his character had been the subject  around which the rest of the movie revolved.

I recommend this only for people who are so obsessed with Woodstock they'd find even the minutia of seemingly unrelated events leading up to the concert to be of interest.  For most of the rest of us, this film may only leave you wondering why Woodstock was even a big deal.