The fifth season of Babylon V is problematic at best, due entirely to the fact that it wasn't supposed to happen. The intended five year story arc of Babylon V was finished in season four, an epilogue tacked on as the last episode and the whole thing (almost) shelved for future development. So when TNT picked up Babylon V for a fifth season, most of J.M. Straczynski's best ideas were exhausted.

Thus, what we have here are some beginnings, some extended endings and some filler. The beginnings are underdeveloped, the endings superb, and the filler banal. Much of the confusion that was season one of Babylon V is played out again in season five.

This is not helped by weak casting decisions like Tracy Scoggins as Captain Lochley. Like Bruce Boxleitner, whose greatest prior sci-fi role is his portrayal of the titular role in the cheesy Tron, Scoggins is a B-list television actress and is as awkward and tentative as Boxleitner in his first season of Babylon V as a result. It makes you want to throw up your arms and say, "Oh no! Not again!"

The only problem is that she does not have three more seasons to build into the portrayal of an epic hero that Boxleitner did, nor is she given the material or the sense of a horizon to the part from the producers. She's running headlong into a brick wall with this character and it shows.

So while Boxleitner had the time of his life with his newfound A-list status, Scoggins plays the role in workaday fashion and is upstaged at every point by characters that seem like they should be more peripheral. Everyone has more franchise clout than her, including the comedy team of Rebo and Zooty. She disappears. Every show taking place on the station loses its "anchor" as a result.

To Scoggins credit, Sir Lawrence Olivier in his prime would have had trouble matching pace. It's a miscast. She's a good actress: she toes the line with her perfunctory performance, and she wisely avoids Shatneresque histrionics.

Walter Koenig returns as Bester and is as playful and sinister as ever. If you're a fan of Koenig, this set is a must buy. He has a lead role in a few of the stories.

Read the reviews for all the other compilations for details on the other leads.

The theme of season five, almost without exception, is underdeveloped ideas that play out far too quickly. The whole thing feels rushed. Thus the low, 3 star, rating.

The material mostly revolves around the fate of an artificially enhanced race of telepathic humans, and the emergence into the light of the various allies of the now banished champions of chaos: The Shadows (which is continued in the spinoff series: Crusade).

These are big ideas to tackle in the space of one season and the results are predictably unsatisfactory. You have to be a die-hard B5 fan, like me, to enjoy much of it. You also have to have watched the previous four seasons. If you haven't, you're going to feel like you just got off the Tilt-o-Whirl and stepped onto a freeway through most of the episodes.

There is one solid reason to buy this set.  It is the story surrounding Centauri Prime. This is an actual continuation and denouement from the original story arc and it is some of the finest television ever produced. Not just Sci-fi TV, all TV. Think Roots (or "The City on The Edge of Forever," if you're a geek).

This is where the series gets back to the sublime, tying up the fates of G'kar and Londo Molari, making them friends through their passions for the welfare of their people, visiting dire consequences upon Molari for his mistakes, and rather hillariously rewarding G'kar for his sacrifices.

We learn the final price of Molari's actions in the Shadow War, and Straczynski again demonstrates an his incisive insight by revealing what a dictator really is. He makes a powerful statement about the relationship between power and personal freedom.

Sadly, it is only a small portion of the material, but it feels like more. It's that big.

In a world of "mission accomplished" hastily claimed years before the fact, JMS has once again proved that he understands war and the politics surrounding it. This stuff is relevant.

The final epsisode is a touching love story that takes place 20 years after the shadow war. It includes Easter Eggs for B5 fans (use your pause key) and neatly ties up some nagging questions for those wrapped up in the mythology of Ranger One.

Of course, if you're a B5 nut like me: 5 stars must buy! Duh. But that isn't a fair rating.

NOTE: This is a review of Season 5 and not of the actual boxed set. I have this on VHS tape, and I have no idea what DVD goodies are offered nor can comment of the quality of the AV.