I'm a big Emergency fan, and clearly season three is where most shows start to click with chemistry and character, which happens here. Better scripts and plots are the norm. Season's one and two, I found myself FF between the dull or uninteresting parts. Season three is very viewable, and holds up well.

The major fault is with some of the presentation itself. Example; one of my favorite episodes "Inferno" was either lost or not found for a clear transfer from the original film. In its place is a good print, probably taken from the syndication vaults, (which were edited with season 4 or 5 credits), (The hospital communication room doesn't exist yet, but appears in the opening credit roll). I'm not sure exactly what's up, or the story from the studio is, but I'd sumise to say that it's the best print available, or that could be found. It is better quality than VHS, cable or TV, but lesser that DVD is capable of presenting.

With that, one example of a great print is 'Snakebite" Colors are vibrant, squad and engine are "fire engine red", dialouge is original mono, spruced to Dolby Digital, clear, and in keeping with the original presentation.

I love the original opening sequences, keeping the timeline of the show. All in all, I can remember at least four opening credit changes throughout the series.

I should also note that some of the subtitles don't exactly match a scene. For instance, "Chet" was off scene having dialoge, and the caption read "Marco" talking, "Squad 51" somehow got tranposed to "Squad 52". I've never seen this many errors in one presentation. Then again, where were the script girls for some of these episodes? The continuity errors are always enjoyable (for me), and part of the shows charm.

I still enjoy these episodes, and often look for actors in the background and their expressions. Love it when they throw Mike Stoker a line, and see if he fumbles. I also look to see when he's missing, knowing he was a real fireman on call, away from the show. It explains how he was technicaly able to pull off the engine scenes like that with the brush fire in "Inferno". The second Engine 51 appears in the season's second episode, and interesting to note it's still in service at Yosemite National Park, since 1987, (DNC Engine #7, license YCS-E51). How cool is that?

You need to at least like the show to pick this one up, as it has some disappointing production values. I think this will be the best that can be done, other than Universal discovering the lost original film and doing a season reissue.

Enjoy, KMG365