Straight up, "Andrei Rublev" is possibly my favourite film, the reason why I got turned onto cinema when I was 15 (some 14 years ago!). So the three stars are for the product rather than the film, which would get 5/5 every time from me. Secondly, I love Criterion DVDs: as a matter of fact, I received "Breathless"/"Bout De Souffle" today and I'm mightily impressed with the film transfer, packaging and extras that set has.
Much is made of the fact that this is the "uncut" version of the film. This may be so, but the twenty minutes that this version has over the Russian Cinema Council version (availaible on Artificial Eye in the U.K.) are generally not new scenes: rather they are extra shots that have been cut from the RUSCICO/AE release. For instance, when Kirill storms out of the monastery after the apparent snub by Theophanes, he beats a stray dog that chases him. In the AE release, the yelping of the dog is the only indication that he kills the animal; in the Criterion version, there is a shot of the dog writhing on the ground. This is not to indicate my distate for animal cruelty, but just that these shots don't in my opinion really add any profundidty to the film. Another example would be the jester's bare, er, posterior with a smiley face daubed on during the hut scene near the beginning, which the AE release omits: it's just bits and bobs spread throughout the film, not extra whole scenes, that's all.
This would be fine if the one-disc transfer was up the standard of the AE release (which splits the film between two discs, 99 and 86 minutes). It isn't. Perhaps it's because we are so used to good transfers onto DVD owadays, where even the no-frill Second Run and Eclipse relaeses are of a very high standard, that this release from 1998 seems sub-standard. The key is that the bit-rate is very low. I don't like the nerdy appraisal of a DVD by exact measurements of bit-rates, but it's clear that when the camera moves (for instance in the hut with the jester) the transfer isn't up to snuff. The rather washed-out look to the fantastic black and white photgraphy and the over-sized black bars further exaccerbate the irritation. Sure, ramping down 100Hz settings, black adjust, etc., the film is just about watchable, but the enormous black bars seem to be hiding the fact that this isn't a great transfer.

Great film, but get the Artificial Eye release. There are far, far better more recent Criterion discs to get before you think about getting this.