I saw this production at a local theater in the Metropolitan Opera's HD LIVE series on November 8th, 2008.

DOCTOR ATOMIC has its moments.  The first act builds up to a tremendous aria, Gerald Finley singing "Batter My Heart," one of the Holy Sonnets of John Donne, as the character of Robert Oppenheimer.  The first scene is the assembled throng of Manhattan Project workers.  I was decidedly underwhelmed.  The second scene is a love scene with Oppenheimer and his wife Kitty -- much better, with Finley in fine form.  Then back to the bomb, with the test blast impending and a rainstorm, building tension.

Finally, the Faustian scene with Oppenheimer singing to God.  The problem with this is that Oppenheimer was Jewish, and not observant.  Yes, he did in fact use Donne's sonnet for the name of the Trinity Test Site in southern New Mexico, but this discrepancy undercut the power of the most powerful scene in DOCTOR ATOMIC for me.

The second act I found to be poorly conceived.  The weather and the delay in the test, which took place July 16th, 1945, drives the action, which strikes me as a small and mundane aspect of such a literally earth-shattering series of events.  The best part of Act II is Kitty, who in real life was a committed leftist and opponent of the Project, and who in the opera symbolizes the human conscience as well as the archetypal Woman standing against the deadly plans of the men, generals and scientists alike.

I was not at all convinced by the addition of a Noble Savage role for the Indian maid Pasqualita and a gallery of impassive male Indians in full regalia.  The ending is weak, with a pointed message about Hiroshima and Nagasaki, yes, (148,000 people were killed immediately by the only two atomic bombs ever to have been used in war, and 340,000 including those killed later by radiation poisoning and other effects), but not nearly as effective musically and dramatically as the ending of Act I.

As far as Adams's position as a leading American composer, I remain underwhelmed.  Minimalism has become merely one element in his eclectic but tonal style, now a sort of audience-friendly PoMo Lite, an acceptable badge of hipness, and Adams continually strives to be a contemporary composer for those who don't like New Music.