Cyrus West, millionaire, leaves his fortune to Annabelle West, his good-hearted, distant relative, the only one who has not been stalking him, like cats after a canary. But she must be proven sane, and she must spend the night in the house Cyrus's ghost now haunts. What follows is a comedy-thriller in which the rest of the family try to scare Annabelle out of the house, or out of her mind. The Cat and the Canary is the prototypical haunted house movie, to which almost all haunted house movies owe their basic look and plot.

Cat and the Canary was first a stage play, and highly popular in that format. But Paul Leni, a German director who transplanted to the United States as the Nazi regime was taking over, brought the German expressionist style that has become the prototype of the haunted house. His use of light and shadow, even the layout of the house can be seen in everything from The House on Haunted Hill to Young Frankenstein to Scooby Doo.

The plot of Cat and the Canary is simple enough: Cyrus West, a millionaire who has been stalked by his family--like a canary pursued by cats--died 20 years ago. Since then, only his ghost and his faithful housekeeper, Mammy Pleasant [Martha Mattox] have resided in the house. But, as stipulated, at midnight, 20 years from the day of his death, his will is read. To thwart his greedy family, Cyrus leaves everything to his most distant relative, Annabelle [Laura La Plante], and the only good-hearted, greedless one among them. But, she must be proven sane, and she must spend the night in the house.

What ensues is a comedy-thriller in which the family is tormented by hauntings while trying to scare Annabelle out of the house and out of her wits. Of course, they fail, and, with Cyrus's assistance and that of the smitten Paul [Creighton Hale], Annabelle winds up with the fortune.

Cat and the Canary is a silent film, and, as I've said before, a good silent movie is a hard movie to make. So much depends on the actors expressions and body language, enhanced by angles, light and music. At this, Leni (and the other Expressionists of his movement) was a master. Little dialogue (provided on text inserts, as is the convention in silent movies) is needed to convey a full range of emotions, as well as the plot. And to see the beginnings of the haunted house motif is a treat as well.

The print is a restoration of the original, highly fragile nitrate prints. Though overly dark, they still represent an excellent, even incredible work of restoration. The original score, which would have been played on the piano in the theater, is unfortunately lost, but Neil Brand does a good job of recreating the time, though the soundtrack at times is a bit over-the-top. Brand is too aware of the influence of the movie, and the modern versions of the haunted house motif interfere with his ability to capture 1937. Still, it fits well enough to make you feel as if you are almost watching the original, wonderful film.