It seemed to go slightly downhill towards the end of the first season. The first few episodes were great and well worth watching, but the quality is dropping off. I groaned when they introduced us to the 21st century's well worn TV clich&eacute;; the "nerdy, but beautiful and misunderstood" female computer geek. That's the same character as Claudia in "Warehouse 13. And why does the FBI love interest always do her trademark rough stuff while wearing a tight black mini dress and high heels ? Purely for the visuals of course, nothing else. Christopher Chance is in danger of turning into just another "Pete" from Warehouse 13. You put him next to a woman (ALWAYS a beautiful and secretive CIA-FBI-Russian diplomat type) and he immediately regresses into a drooling "man-boy", making ridiculous and juvenile remarks about underwear and grinning like a schoolboy. There have also been at least a couple of really clunky and inferior episodes in this season. In particular, the one set in Sth America (Chance doing a MacGyver imitation) and the episode with the "Princess of Wales" falling in love with the poor New York paramedic. Both episodes were very badly written and poorly acted. The only characters left who are still trying to do something serious are Guerrero and, to a lesser extent, Winston. When they play it straight and without laughs and avoid the utterly cliched "sexual tension" between Christopher Chance and his "love-interest-of-the week" then the show really works. I'm afraid the network will just want to sex-it-up to gain viewers and ruin if for us.

The DVD itself is good to look at and the Blu-Ray picture quality is excellent of course. The menu for the special features is confusing. I was constantly clicking on the wrong area. The selections are clicked left-right rather than north-south. Not very intuitive. A small thing but irritating. And I'm not sure why the interviews with the cast and crew look like they were washed out, almost yellow. Did they film this on their camera phone?

Don't get me wrong, I quite like the show. It has loads of potential and I hope they continue to improve. I'll keep watching.