The movie The Pacifier was funny, considering it was Disney. But there were also some strange moments that made me uncomfortable.

I do like the idea though of action hero actor types in comedy roles. Bruce Willis in Death Becomes Her is a prime example. Just love it. Similarly, I like Vin Diesel in a comedy role, it''s cute, hope to see more of the same.

So yeah. It was alright. Some obvious bits. Some awkward moments. But all in all, fun - funny.

Now that I've been rather vague, I'll address my problems with the film.

Maybe it is personal. Because I had a conflict with my school principal, vice principal, and head of security once upon a time. They assumed things where they not ought to have. Keep in mind this is in the aftermath of Columbine, and me being the alternative individual I am got into trouble by standing up for my (and others) rights. Coloring hair "unnatural" colors suddenly became forbidden, wearing all black or dog collars got you kicked out (among other absurd changes). This was all in order to (presumably) protect against a Columbine type event happening at our school. But what they seemed to not realize was that by picking on us alternative folk, they were making us feel more victimized, scorned - giving us more reason to rebel. You try to suppress us? Then you'll really see a fight!

It bothered me that they did not care who any of us are. Never mind that I am an AP student, in the top 10th of the class (I think?) ... no, forget about all that I contribute to the school, because now you condemn me for wearing black, having short hair, and looking utterly miserable every day. And who wouldn't be miserable?! It is high school, and not only is the world against you, but all of the sudden everyone is convinced that you are going to shoot them during lunch hour. Random locker searches my a$$.

So that's my true-to-life anger on the subject. Here is how it played out in the movie. Something that I believe should not be seen as an acceptable form of behavior from an adult/authority figure.

Murney (the vice principal, an authority figure) has got it out for Seth, for one, calling the kid names like: Creeper (also note the boy wears all black, is an alternative home boy, yo). Allows Seth to be bullied (physically pushed around) by other kids (not using ones authority for good/justice is just as bad as not having it to begin with). Murney implies that Seth is gay or at least effeminate for wanting to be in theater plays rather than on the wrestling team by calling him "twinkle toes" and "prancer." He also says such a decision is what happens when there's no man in the house (meaning a father). Firstly, that is sexual harassment. You have no right to bring up what you assume to be a person's sexual affiliation. If he is gay or not, it does not matter, either way you are suggesting that it is a bad thing. Secondly, at the end of the movie they try to have Murney in a humorous position in drag as a nun in the play. I do not see why he would ever agree to this, it seems very out of character. But it also irks me that he got into no trouble for any of his actions, he was not held accountable.

I would also like to add that the 'Panda Dance' true purpose was so obvious it wasn't even funny. Really, it wasn't funny, simply embarrassing to watch. And just WHO has a basement like that? Do you build it before or after the house? If you move, do you tell the new owners that there is a secret room just under the foundation of the house? Are they hooked up to a gas station to get those flame throwers to be ready at all times? WTF???

Ahem. So I'll watch it again if I must, but would rather avoid getting angry again - so I won't.