The first movie, #1, had a lot of obstacles to overcome. First, the OVERWHELMING pressure and expectations that were set on it. It, for the most part, past that. It had to introduce hundreds of thousands of people to this wizarding world, and it's hero, Harry Potter, and that took nearly an hour out of its running time. Those were just a few of the many obstacles the Sorcerer's Stone HAD to overcome. 
Well, in Chamber of Secrets, people now know the story of Harry
Potter, have lowered (a bit) there expectations, and the entire cast and crew is back with a LOT more experience. All of these advantages over #1 should make this a better movie, right?Thankfully, it WAS. Here's what I thought of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: 
1) Plot: This movie follows the second book in J.K. Rowling's recored-selling book series, and follows Harry throug his second year at Hogwarts. While many have said that this was the worst book of the series, and because of that this might turn out to be the worst movie of the series. I highly disagree! We start out with Harry, back at the Dursleys for the summer...here we go again. They treat him like...a criminal, work him to death, and dont allow him to say the "M word" (magic) AT ALL IN THIS HOUSEHOLD!!! Well, one night, when Harry is in his room, a house-elf, named Dobby, visits Harry. He warns of GRAVE DANGER at Hogwarts, horrible things planned for the following school year! What is this elf talking about? Harry ignores the elf, and goes to school anyway. Everything seems to be going normally (or whatever you would call "normal" at Hogwarts) when Harry finds a cat, Mrs. Norris, hanging upside down...petrified in a hallway. And above, written in what looks like blood, are written the words "The Chamber of Secrets has been opened." What's going on??? No one knows, and within a few weeks, more people have been petrified by an un-known creature. That's when Harry remembers Dobby's comments, that something terrible would be happening that year at Hogwarts... 
2) Acting: HUGE improvement. Amazing the difference a year makes...at least for the cast of Harry Potter. There is so much more emotion, drama, suspense. For example, last year, there were perhaps 2 or 3 confrentation with Malfoy the whole movie. In Chamber of Secrets, they really clash! There are wizarding duels, TONS OF QUIDDITCH!, a lot more emphasis on Harry and his friends, etc... Bonds are really made here, and some of the best scenes are when Malfoy's father (a Voldemort supporter) and Ron' s dad (a true wizard) talk... Hermione, Ron, Harry, and the rest of Gryffindor really seem to come together. There is real emotion as well when they defend each other, *example: Malfoy calling Hermione a "mudblood", everyone from both Gryffindor and Slytherin yelling and trying to get a piece of the other! Hermione's tears after the insult, Ron and Harry's support. The entire school welcoming Hagrid back toward the end, everyone cheering Harry on after the Quidditch game, etc... And the actor who played Gildera Lockhart (Kenneth Branagh) did a SUPERB job! He was holarious, loved to show off his teeth and get attention, and really played the clueless part well too! The whole movie had some humor in it as well that was lacked in the first one, and it was little things like Kenneth Branagh's GREAT acting and sense of humor that made this one better than the first. 
There is a lot more dark acting here too. Voldemort is brought to life in a scary way, and seeing all the petrified people, Harry hearing voices in the wall that NO ONE else can here. Tom Riddle's Hermione like brilliance, all the mystery, suspense, and those spiders...and that snake. All of the acting combining with a suspeneseful story made this a better movie then the last. 
3) Graphics: Another huge improvement. Hogwarts, while see ming
confined in the first movie, seems to come alive in this. You learn about the whomping willow, go a lot DEEPER into the forbidden forest, and see those....horrible spiders. The snake, the blood, the Quidditch game(s) (brought together a LOT better than in the Sorcerer's stone. A lot more action!). Even the blood and the big fight against Voldemort is all very exciting....thanks to the graphics. You really feel a lot more like your seeing Hogwarts the way J.K. Rowling saw it. It feels real, not like it came off of a computer program. That helped capture the feeling, and continue the magical flame the first one lit!
4) Problems: It seems like they often go for ALL of the big things, and don't try to ease you in to regular life at Hogwarts. And while this was a great movie, and nearly flawless in a lot of ways, it still lacked that and could still use something. The main problem right now, in my opinion, is the fact that they go for the BIG things. When I read the books, I felt (feel) like I was attending Hogwarts myself, reading about all of the homework and going to all of the classes and Quidditch practice every night and eating breakfast and discussing tactics with Ron in the morning. They seemed
to have still missed that for the most part here. *(They also left a few things out: Deathday Party for example)*
Overall, this is a GREAT movie. It has a lot of action, GREAT
graphics, and superb acting in a lot of ways. It's still not perfect, but I think that by the third movie, "The Prisoner of Azkaban" (set to be released June 2004 as last reported) we may have a 5-star series ! I'd reccomend this to anyone who even thought the books were okay, and who doesn't have an XTREME fear of Snakes and or Spiders *lol*. 
Thx!