When I saw the original version of Troy, I don't remember thinking that the movie needed more "character development" or longer battle scenes. It was pretty good as it was, even though it occasionally lapsed into Hollywood epic dialogue and some of its scenes were flat out absurd, e.g., the scene where Hector kills Patroclus, thinking he's actually Achilles, then turns to Odysseus and calls off a battle involving tens of thousands of men. "That's enough for today," he says, and then they all retreat. Right. If the director wanted to release a new version of the movie, he should have fixed up scenes like this rather than just undo all the edits that made the original so tight in the first place.

The director's cut of Troy isn't all that bad, but it's worse than the original. Director's cuts are always worse and always longer, because what they do is restore all the "missing scenes" that were cut (usually for good reasons) from the original. For example, in this "new and improved" version of Troy, the battles are longer and a lot bloodier, which isn't necessarily bad in itself, but I thought the original battle scenes were more effective, mostly due to the tighter editing. In the new version, we also get a lot more character dialog, but "more dialog" isn't the same thing as more "character development." None of this restored footage told me anything new about the characters or helped to clarify their relationships or any of that stuff. It was all pretty clear in the original.

The director's cut seemed "off" somehow. It wasn't as tight, for one thing, but there was something weird about the sound quality and the new score was god-awful, in my opinion. I've read that the picture quality is much better; if so, I didn't really notice.  In any case, I have yet to see a director's cut that was better than the original and this new version of Troy is no exception. I'm starting to think that this business of restoring missing scenes is just a marketing gimmick for selling movies twice.

Ancient World Review