The Oscars have been and gone, and one film has left critics stunned.

Jamie Foxx plays the part of Ray Charles Robinson, and pulls off an astonishing resemblance to the legend who died in late 2004.

The story begins as Ray is standing waiting for a bus to take him on his quest for fame in Seattle, however, when he is introduced to a Jazz band he hopes to work with, they doubt his abilities as he is blind. Despite the fact he is blind and black, he convinces them to give him a chance. They are astonished to see a blind man play the piano so well.

He finally reaches his destination of Seattle, and is forced to play in a talent night when one of the participants falls sick. Despite being unprepared he is persuaded to perform, after being tricked into taking drugs to calm him down. The audience stare in amazement, and immediately, he is snapped up by the owner and becomes his manager... as well as his lover.

Ray and his band start to sell out on every gig they play, however, he is set back by a childhood nightmare. He feels he is surrounded by water, which causes Ray great pain. Despite this, Ray continues to sell out, and before long he is spotted b a big record company, who offer him a deal. However, his manager isnt too kean to let her biggest money earner go. His manager seems to be hiding something from Ray about the deal, so he decides to speak to the record label himself, and finds his manager has been lting to him about the deal. In a moment of fury he leaves and travels the country with his new band and manager. However, drugs get the better of him, and despite recently becoming maried, he still has th urge to sleep with other women, even with a baby on the way. His ever growing heroin use leads the police to raid his room. No the only way for Ray to stay out of prison is to undergo rehabilitation and completely rid himself of heroin use.

During his rehabilitation, we find that the reason for his flashbacks is because his brother drounds as a youngster, and he feels he is to blame as he could have saved his. He continually sobs thinking of how he could have saved his beloved brother, and the constant crying and rubbing his eyes leads to Ray becoming blind.

Ray contyinues to become better and better as an artist, and because of this, his wealth grows and grows. We later find out his secret lover dies.

"Ray" is a hearwarming story, and his fears of blaming himself for his brothers death is put straight when he sees his mother and his brother in a dream, where his brother denies Ray is to blame. Also, he receives a public apology from his home town of Georgia who abnned him after he refused to perform there due to racist problems.

"Ray" is an enthrilling movie which is likely to attract all age roups. This true life story is a dedication to Mr Ray Charles who died in 2004, and Jamie Foxx's representation of him is outstanding. I would certainly urge everyone to watch the film, especially those with a musical interest. I personally loved this film, and, if asked to rate it out of five, I would have to rate it 5 out of 5.

I hope you enjoy it.