I'm not going to disagree that your view on this film is likely to be colored by your gender. But those who claim that men who are less enthused about the film are motivated by revulsion of feminism or outright misogyny are off the mark. Nor is it about a "female sentiment" being expressed in the film; although perhaps for female audience members there is an affinity created in that the protagonists are female (and additional solidarity created by means of rape as a plot device). Rather I think women will much more appreciate the film's heavy emphasis on relationships - many men simply won't get the appeal. There is really no action in the film per se, but  concentrates on material of high interest to women (relationships) and very little of what interests men (action, conflict, or any sort of event-driven activity). Think of this as the cinematic version of girlfriends having a baby or bridal shower - it will appeal to the women while the men could care less.

I would disagree that men are demonized in this film. Not surprising considering the "relationships" angle this film spends most of its time on. Males don't add significantly to the inter-relationships of the female characters, so the men are at best an irrelevancy. Again, think of the bridal shower - it's not so much about male-bashing so much as men are simply a complete afterthought to the point of the event. When men do take a role, it is at worst the villain, more typically simply the foil to showcase the female characters as self-sufficient and "liberated." Men aren't demeaned so much as the best a male can hope to be treated as a peer whom the women tolerate (and most often far less). When it comes to relationships, having a relationship with a male doesn't seem provide any joy, nor does absence.

Once the false male vs. female schism has been disposed of, the film's main problem is that the characters are so unlikable. The main character is shown to be remarkably shallow, self-centered, and not someone who I would want to relate in spite of her role as protagonist.

A scene of mean-spirited gossip from Antonia to her daughter opens the film as a means of introducing the cast.  This is followed quickly with the pair attending her mother's deathbed, which showcases Antonia displaying a complete lack of warmth or sense of loss.  Indeed Antonia seems to be annoyed at the continued existence of her mother and their interaction is closer to insult and scorn - so much for casting her as a likable character.

Much of the film follows this same arc.  Derision of religion and faith is served up repeatedly, although Antonia and family make a point of attending church (evidently the better to enable humor at the priest's and church's expense later on).  An older gentleman who attempts to romantically woo Antonia is rebuffed but allowed to perform chores for her, and later bed her as a return favor (although she pointedly refuses marriage).  Antonia's daughter asks to conceive a child and hiding the birth from the father, and receives Antonia's help (she sits outside drinking tea with the matchmaker as the sex takes place). Pregnancy does occur and causes the priest to issue a condemning sermon for the unwed mother, which leads to a plot to blackmail the priest who dutifully changes the sermon next week.

Fast forward a few years (with the obligatory and oft-repeated prattle about "and so seasons passed, and life continued on...").  Antonia has a granddaughter child-prodigy whose female teacher is quickly seduced by Antonia's daughter.  The granddaughter gets served up heaping helpings of nihilism and atheism by another character (Crooked Finger), although the child's studies are hampered by the noise of the lovemaking of her mother, grandmother, and several other characters.  The first of two rapes occurs at this point as well.

In later scenes, the granddaughter gets pregnant and a lively debate occurs at the family dinner table as to whether she should abort or keep the baby.  I'm not a prude, but find this entire scene rather distasteful. The reaction of Antonia and the other main characters to news of the pregnancy seems remarkably detached at this turn of events and a second rape, which is another underlying current of this movie.  The main characters seem willing to passively accept bad events occurring to others and will materially support them, but have no emotional, moral, or spiritual core to provide to the sufferer.  After all, when your point of view on life is that "this is the only dance we dance," what can you really offer the other person when their waltz partner stomps her toes? Likewise, there is no sense of loss, grief, or regret portrayed when hard choices present themselves - for an example, see the dinner table abortion debate above, which is handled with the same degree of gravity as "should I wear the blue or black shoes today?"  One choice is as good as any other, so long as Antonia can continue to host her dinner parties.

And on the movie goes, and the premises lead to their natural conclusions, such as the suicide of Crooked Finger (he of the nihilistic philosophy bent).  After all, if one takes at face value the points the film makes (life is a tragedy, there is no God, etc), then how can one turn around and feel sorrowful that the characters are living (and dying) according to their own lights?  Of course, I suppose this means that Antonia has one less dinner guest.

The values of the entire film leave a bitter taste in your mouth and you start wishing for someone to show genuine emotional, spiritual, and moral growth. As the film slogs on however, that lack of any character being willing to address anything bigger than the immediate, carnal, and baser concerns becomes what makes it impossible to enjoy.