This was a cute film about a hapless, 30-something singleton trying to make her way in the world. I can relate to the main character on many levels, with the exception of the weight thing. I workout 4-5 days a week and wear a size 8. Nonetheless, the title character didn't look all that big to me. I think it's a sad commentary on society when a perfectly average-looking size 12 woman is considered chubby. That aside, the film is dead-on accurate in its portrayal of some of the self-destructive things that we females can sometimes do to ourselves -- the chain smoking, the excessive drinking, the binging and let me not forget the bad habit of hooking up with unsuitable men. In many ways this movie holds a mirror up to how some of us really live, which is markedly different from what we would have others believe. Not all single women are living like the gals on "Sex And the City." Some of us are quite ordinary and clueless -- but not me of course. 8-)
Zellweger is convincing as the earnest, if clumsy, Bridget. This is a physical comedy complete with many pratfalls and sight gags -- I was in stitches at the sight of those big ole granny panties that she chose instead of that little black thong. And who could forget her television debut that showed her entire butt the world after she slid down a pole?
I have to admit that ending surprised me because I thought that Mark was gone for good after he (rather nosily!) read some of our heroine's cutting remarks about him in her diary. But Bridget ran after him into the cold night, wearing next to nothing, and gets the surprise of her life. Ah, I am a sucker for a story with a happy ending. Some viewers complained that the movie implied that Bridget felt incomplete without a man, however, that is not my take on it. She wanted him, and he reciprocated her feelings. What's so bad about that? Further, I think that most of us desire companionship and spend quite a bit of time pursuing it and/or lamenting the lack thereof. It's not like Bridget closed herself off from the world and put her life on hold until Prince Charming arrived. True she did look in the wrong places and did wallow a bit in self-pity, but I think she was getting it together toward the end. At the very least, she was not afraid to make herself vulnerable even when she had plenty of reason to be gun-shy. And if that isn't courageous, then I don't know what is. I enjoyed this movie about an average Jane determined to proceed through life despite the occasional pitfall. That's all that any of us can do.