The conceit of this movie, a supposedly gritty, real-life look at American public schooling, is that at-risk teenagers are hardened, terrifying criminals-in-training whose only hope is for savvy white people to swoop down into their lives and save them. This old, deeply ingrained narrative, is not helping anyone. The idea that teachers are these noble, infallible heroes who should be given a medal for even setting foot in the war zones that are public schools doesn't leave much room for sympathy with the students themselves.

When Lucy Liu screams at a blase young woman (her very attitude is seen as reprehensible, when in reality, what teenaged girl isn't blase?) with all F's whose plans for after graduation include modeling and being in a band, calling her a shallow, disgusting creature with no ambition, it's filmed as a moment of catharsis for this poor educator at her wit's end; as a teacher myself, I found it appalling, as with many other scenes where teachers get the best of their no-good students.

There's no accountability here for the role adults play in the lives of troubled youth, no understanding for why these young people act the way they do. Instead, this is a sensationalist view of schools by someone who doesn't know a lot about them. Yes, at-risk students are angry, often aggressive, and often don't have much respect for authority figures. But there's more to them than that, and it takes more than a white hero spouting tough love to change their lives and their attitudes. They need the support and understanding of a whole team of adults who are willing to take responsibility for the roles they play in their lives; with teachers like these, who are so embittered that they basically despise the sight of their own students, it's no wonder they're so miserable, and Tony Kaye's lens is an extension of this hateful gaze.

I gave this two stars, rather than one, because of the many excellent actors who were involved in this film. Adrien Brody's performance was one of the only things that kept me watching a movie I found so problematic.