Every person should see Rocky at least one time in their life.  It is by far my favorite movie ever and many people will agree it is a timeless classic.  From the cinematography all the way to the love story it is a beautiful piece of work.  This movie won three academy awards.  It won one for best picture, one for best editing and one for best director, and it well should have.  It was made by Sylvester Stallone who stars in it as Rocky Balboa.  The reason it is so appealing to me is the diversity in which the movie shows.  This movie has everything for a large range of an audience. It is rated PG because there is no crude language.  The only violence is the actual boxing.  It has of course great action sequences.  These scenes are achieved by the mastery camera angles.  Also these scenes would not have been so beautifully constructed with out great editing.  The fight scenes seem so perfect that any one can believe that Sylvester Stallone (Rocky) and Carl Weathers (Apollo Creed) were actually fighting each other.

  Rocky is a collector for a mobster, because he is a natural born fighter.  He boxes at a local gym on the side because he loves boxing.  He is given the shot of a life time, to fight Apollo Creed the heavy weight champion in his home town of Philadelphia.  This where is any person can relate to the film.  Everyone has a dream were they would give everything for just one small chance one shot at it.  This is what Rocky is given, it's his one shot.  The passion that Rocky has for this sport is illustrated through his training scenes.  These scenes are probably the most famous scenes ever made.  They show a nobody, a street fighter become a real contender for the championship.  It shows Rocky running up the steps of the Philadelphia Art Museum, and throwing his hands in the air when reaching the top.  The way that the music progressively gets louder while he makes his way up is excellent.  This movie is equipped with an excellent sound track, which perfectly complements the content of the scenes.

What most people don't know is that this is not just a fight movie.  It revolves around a great love story also.  Rocky falls in love with possibly the shyest girl ever, named Adrian (Talia Shire).  She works across the street in a pet store were Rocky frequently visits to tell her a joke and pick up pet food.  He is friends with her brother Paulie, and he arranges a date.  Adrian asks Rocky why he fights, and his answer is one of the cleverest responses ever.  He tells her that he fights because he can't sing or dance.  Now some people might think it's just a joke, but he says this to explain his passion for the sport and show he was born for it.

This is the type of movie that makes everyone feel great.  It will make everyone that watches it want to shoot for their dreams, and realize that no dream is too far for anyone to reach.  After the movie is over, and you turn the lights on, you will think you are Rocky.  You will feel on top of the world and will be smiling form ear to ear.  I recommend all of the Rocky movies.  I own all five and will with out a doubt recommend all of them.  However I truly feel that the first Rocky is the best, and always will be the best.  Not just the best out of the Rocky series, this is the best movie ever.