10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU is a modern update on William Shakespeare's classic comedy THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.  Meaning it's not Kenneth Branagh.  Meaning you don't need an English-Elizabethan dictionary to understand half  the words.  Meaning no fops parading around in tight tights.  Meaning no  royal kerfuffles.  Meaning no ghosts, witches, fairies, or one-legged  Turkish disco dancers.  Meaning no obscure references that only English  teachers get.  Meaning no actors walking around talking to themselves like  they just got released from Shady Acres Happy Home.  Meaning, finally, a  movie geared towards a young audience.  And unlike some modern-day  adaptations of classic plays or movies, this one will actually hold your  attention for more than seventeen seconds.
What makes 10 THINGS I HATE  ABOUT YOU really work is two things.  First of all, it doesn't pander down  to its audience, instead treating it as an equal.  Second, and most  importantly, writers Karen McCullah Lutz and Kristen Smith flesh out the  characters and make them seem real.  This couldn't be accomplished without  good actors, and 10 THINGS has plenty of those.  Instead of going with the  huge teen stars of the moment (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar,  Freddie Prinze Jr, or any other heartthrob with three or more names), the  casting directors chose lesser-known actors who could get by on talent, and  not necessarily name value alone.  They chose wisely.
Stiles makes Kat  into a multifaceted, complex heroine who is both charming and viciously  fierce.  Ledger brings a new dimension to the oft-used "rebel who's  really a misunderstood poetic soul" cliche.  The chemistry between  these two is probably the most compelling part of the movie.  When Patrick  serenades Kat with the song "Can't Take My Eyes Off Of You"  accompanied by the school marching band, it's such a joyous and spontaneous  moment that I guarantee your heart will melt and you'll break into a huge  smile in spite of yourself.  10 cheers for 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU!