First, this is not Sam Peckinpah's best effort.  Recent biographies have traced the difficulties he had with this production, mostly money issues, but also script issues (and the script is perhaps the weakest part of this movie).  By this point in his career, Peckinpah had already entered into the pitiful slide of addiction, and to some degree it shows in the pacing of this film: too long, a little slack, with his patented slow motion death scenes now becoming almost self-parody.  All this said, this is a film still worth seeing and owning (I certainly plan to own this edition, wide-screen, commentary, and all). It's worth owning because, one, it is a Sam Peckinpah film, and Sam Peckinpah is unarguably one of the great filmmakers of the  6os and 70s.  Hell, Convoy is even worth watching and owning, if just for one great shot of the trucks on the highway at night, a simply gorgeous image.  And Cross of Iron, for all its problems with length and coherence, is still a powerful war film and still at many times a gorgeous film.  Like all Peckinpah movies, this reeks of authenticity: the soldiers in their dishelved uniforms and bad teeth, the Germans (as they really did do) trading their Schmiesser machine pistols for the much better Russian submachine guns.  The battle scenes are impressively and disturbingly chaotic. The climax, with Steiner's men crossing no-man's land into their own lines, is heartbreaking, an image that has stuck with me for nearly 30 years since I saw the film when it first came out.  I don't know if in today's conservative climate one could make a movie about German soldiers in WWII; and Peckinpah takes perhaps an easy way out by making a clear distinction between the common Wermacht soldier and the evil SS troops (in the last decade or so there has been much scholarship about the atrocities committed by the regular, non SS,  German Army in the Soviet Union, which decisively undercuts Peckinpah's distinction). This said, the bigger point that Peckinpah makes in this film still is valid: simply, war is hell, and at a certain point, winning and losing become meaningless.  James Coburn, an always underrated actor, is excellent here as the weary and cynical squad leader Steiner, with able support by Maximillian Schell, James Mason, and David Warner.  The rest of the cast is an effective and talented group of European actors.  Despite what Orson Welles may have said, this is not the greatest anti-war movie ever made.  It's not even near Peckinpah's best.  But it's honest filmmaking by a master craftsman who still could drive a narrative with skill.  This is an essential part of any Peckinpah fans film library, and worth seeing for any serious film goer.