I had been pleasently surprised watching a Steven Seagal movie once and thought to repeat the experience. I'm quite torn on this movie however. It stars Steven Seagal acting as a cop with a spiritual side, who moves to LA to help in a murder investigation with a new partner cop, Keenen Ivory Wayans.  Seagal starts out stating that he can't fight because it's against his religion. But once he breaks the seal he just goes on killing all the bad guys without a look back. He totally goes against his religious background with out regrets even though they spend time setting up a plot around his break from his violent past. 
I think what bothered me about his character is that he seems to have no code of ethics or even of police work. He kills all his suspects, doesn't follow police procedure, has no second thought to the fact that he's working on personal vendetta instead of his job as a cop, and bascially throws away his badge and therefore his vow of protect and serve means nothing. If you're someone who doesn't mind that the good guy is a bad cop and a cold blooded killer than you might just like this movie.
I also found the movie very violent, outside of the normal shoot-em-up, knock-em-down formula. At one point Seagal repeatedly pistol whips a guy into a bloody pulp, and the murder victims the cops investigate are pretty gross too.
The saving grace of this movie was Keenen Ivory Wayans. He was actually very enjoyable and in my mind saved this flick, although at some points the film was shot well.
The plot was thin, with a lot of time spent on focusing on Seagal's character making this movie have two plots, the past of Seagal and the investigation going on. This movie tried to be Rush Hour and failed. You're not sure in the beginning if Seagal is trying to be Asian or Native American, the fight scenes were horribly edited and the plot seemed thrown together to hide a movie about Seagal's (character's) past.
The DVD doesn't have very many features, but since the movie is cinemagraphically shot well it's worth it to own on DVD. It's a must have for any Seagal fan, and worth watching, just not worth getting into deeply or for fighting. It's an action movie that tries too hard to have plot.