After losing his partner (Terry Chen) to the hands of mysterious assassin Rogue (Jet Li), FBI agent John Crawford (Jason Statham) has spent the last three years of his life trying to get revenge, costing him his marriage. He gets his opportunity when the assassin resurfaces to begin a war between the Triad and Yakuza crime organizations. In between all this, Rogue and Crawford are engaged in a cat-and-mouse chase where both learn about their past.

Jet Li and Jason Statham. Who could go wrong with a showdown between two of this generation's martial arts stars. This is agreeably why I anticipated "War", helmed by Phillip G. Altwell (a music video vet who doubled in directing an episode of "The Shield" and second unit directing for "National Treasure". The film delivers very well on the action side, and Li and Statham are terrific, but suffice to say, I felt disappointed.

Altwell does get "War" started on solid, if familiar territory. The music video vet often gets carried away with the visuals, but he is able to relish in the moment during any action scenes or whenever Li or Statham come into conflict. For any fan of martial arts films, Altwell has a good present for you.

But it's a shame that he wants more from this package than inviting fans to see the main event. Altwell piles upon meaningless subplot over meaningless subplots involving Crawford's estranged family (wake me up when that cliche dies down, please?), dirty cops hijacking weapons, a crime boss's wife (Nadine Velazquez) whom Rogue sympathizes for, and many more. So we're here to see Li and Statham exchange fisticuffs in a 99 minute movie, but have to sit through endless scenes of expository dialogue and some plot holes to get to it? And for some reason that only Altwell can explain, there's a "Usual Suspects"-type twist involving what REALLY happened to Tom Lone. A really bad move on his part.

Probably one of the subplots that had me riveted was the one involving Devon Aoki. As the daughter of Yakuza boss Shiro (Ryo Ishibashi), Aoki manages to give her somewhat limited role some life. My favorite scene involved her holding a knife to one guy's throat, while aiming a gun to the other guy's head. Scenes like that give "Rogue" the much needed life it lacks.

Altwell does good when giving Li and Statham screen time to confront each other. Scenes like that have plenty of suspense, raw drama, and an extra punch of fun. Unfortunately, due to the uncalled-for twist at the end, their final fight becomes a major disappointment. And the film ends after Crawford gets shot and Rogue drives off in a car. "War" has a lot going for it, and it's very action-packed, but it leaves a stench of disappointment of what it could've been.