'The Machinist' is easily one of the best films I have seen in a long time.  So, of course, critics and viewers seem to be lukewarm or downright critical of it.  Maybe it was too dark for them.  Maybe it was too confusing.  Maybe a protagonist that looks like a walking skeleton was too much for them to handle.  Still, the main criticisms I've read about 'The Machinist' are the very reasons people like myself love it.  The 2-star review from "A. Vegan" says it all:

"The movie doesn't let you know what is happening until the last few minutes of the film, so it requires that you sit through almost an hour and a half wondering what is going on. The dark gloomy atmosphere, together with the dark gloomy characters in the film help make it even more unpleasant. We know something is going on, but there is no hint of it until the movie is over."

That's not really a valid criticism since that was kind of the point: to figure out what is going on.  You truly are immersed into the shoes of the protagonist (Christian Bale, in a career defining performance.)  The viewer feels just as lost, confused, and helpless as sleepy, skinny Trevor Reznik does.  Which, as my vegan friend didn't quite grasp, is part of the point of this film and is the main storytelling device.  You are supposed to feel the pain and anguish of a man who has not slept in a year and is slowly but surely losing his mind.  You may or may not enjoy the plot and subject matter, but you cannot deny that the film succeeds wonderfully in what it is attempting.

Throughout the film, I found myself asking many of the same questions Reznik was asking himself: Why can't he sleep?  What's the deal with the mysterious Ivan?  Are his co-workers really messing with him or is Trevor just paranoid?  Why is it always 1:30 when he looks at a clock?  How do the hooker and the waitress fit into everything?  Above all else....what's in the fridge?  Thankfully most, if not all, of your questions are answered in the spectacular ending that makes all of the puzzle pieces fit together nicely.  It will surprise you, but not in the typical Hollywood gimmicky "Gotcha!" kind of way (M. Night Shamalyan, I'm looking at you.)  It is both surprising and satisfying.

If you can't handle movies where the plot isn't spoon fed to you and you're pretty much in the dark until the last 5 minutes, then you probably won't enjoy 'The Machinist'.  If you enjoy movies that provide a good slow boil instead of a greasy flash fry, then you don't want to miss this instant classic.