the texas chainsaw massacre: the beginning (tcmtb)is probably the most shocking movie i have ever seen, instilling a sense of fear in me toward strangers!  while i admire the horror genre all my life, this one did give me the creeps and made my stomach churn! i thought the carnage in evil dead will hold its crown as the "most gruelling experience in horror."

after i have watched the original 1974, i can only obectively say that the 2003 and 2006 remakes ARE MUCH BETTER than the original. it is like the case of the original being surpassed by its sequel (think star wars or terminator). while tobe hooper's original set the stage, nispel and liebesman set that stage on fire.  the story and premise of the texas chainsaw movies is quite simple in 1974, yet, the 2003 and 2006 remakes went deeper (and gorier) in telling the story of leatherface (and why he is called as such).

when i watched the tcm remake in 2003, much as i really enjoyed it, i felt cheated by the "restrained" way the kids died one after the other. the camera angle is strategically placed so that audience will not see anything gory. thanks to jessica biel - she was the heroine and acted her part so well it added to the movie's credibility.

but for tcmtb, all retraints were off: and it made tcmtb the more horrifying experience than the pseudo-horrors i have seen. tcmtb would really shock those who will watch it! while the plot is lighter than the 2003 remake, it was able to make audiences symphatize with the main characters as they are normal people (unlike the caricatures of horrors past). jordana brewster and matthew bomer did well in the acting department, same with doira byrd and taylor handley.

i gave it five stars! and i seldom do.

(spoilers: do not read if you have not watched the movie)
the "unrated" version featured bits and pieces not shown in theaters (such as their group being intimidated by the bikers, the sawing of uncle monty's legs in different angles, sherrif hoyt taking out the piece of mirror from bailey's belly - then licking it!, pieces of flesh spewing out as leatherface impales eric with the deadly chainsaw, the same with chrissie and dean's case - a few seconds more of the saw penetraing their bodies in loving close-ups, leatherface sawing in half the biker who tried to rescue his girlfriend, leatherface filleting the face of eric in close-up - and a close up of bailey's slit throat).  these scenes are just seconds in the original theatrical release but they added impact to the scenes in the unrated version to which they were deleted/trimmed down from.

now, for the bonus materials: the special features explains how they did all those "sadistic, realistic, and gory" effects. thank god the actors are all alive. you have to watch the crew, the director, the producers, editors and actors enjoy the set or you might think the actors all die in the movie. whew! this was a relief. grab the dvd. buy it. and make it your own. the behind the scenes, including alternative endings, are a delight. it lessens the tension you feel after watching the movie. you'd think everything you saw in the movie was real!

yup, it's bloody disgusting that i enjoyed it soooo much. buy the unrated! and pray for a third installment.

(not for the faint of heart)