I'm being very generous giving this film 3 stars, only because it DOES include a lot of great never-before-seen footage...however, this so called "Special Edition" is ruined for me because in order to GET this extra footage, they deleted 3 songs from the original version of the film! ("I Just Can't Help Believin'", "Bridge Over Troubled Water" and "Sweet Caroline"...probably my favorites!!!) To make matters worse, the original version of this film has been GONE ever since, and doesn't look like it will ever be re-released! Another insult is the fact that there is a short documentary included on the special edition all about how this edition was edited!!! (butchered would have been a better word!!!) I'm not saying this new edition is not enjoyable...it is...but why was anything from the original version deleted from this one?!!! This new version runs for only 109 minutes...that's well under two hours!!! Why were these three great songs taken out???!!! I wouldn't have minded this new edition so much if the original version was still available, but it's not!!! I have the original on VHS and it looks like I'll have to keep it. I didn't buy the DVD when it was still around because I heard the special edition was coming out...big mistake!!! If I had only known!!! For some reason, Elvis products usually have to be released about 3 times before they get it right!!! The recently released box set of the "68 Comeback" could have been better too!!! The entire production number of "It Hurts Me" is only on this set in segments, the way it was originally taped! In order to get the song in one piece, you have to get the newly released single disc version of the special!!! I've read somewhere that this was just a mistake, but I'm not sure I believe it...I think it's just a way to get the fans to buy the same product over and over, because this kind of thing happens all the time!!! Imagine! A 3-disc set of the "68 Special" and you STILL have to buy it again to get something they left out!!!