"FROM HELL" is an interesting visual exercise with a rich and haunting musical score. The performances are all very good, though Heather Graham as a whore in 1888 is a hell of a stretch (Heather Graham as a whore in 2001 would be a stretch). Ian Holm is creepily effective as a royal doctor with an agenda. The ending is very wonky, coming out of left field. But for me, having been around long enough to have watched a lot of movies over the last thirty years, I have to say I got a nagging sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu.
At least one reviewer here has already mentioned the similarity between this film and the 1979 Bob Clark film "MURDER BY DECREE." The similarities are quite striking. 
Except for the fact that MBD (made 20 years before the graphic novel FROM HELL was published) had as its detectives Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson (Christopher Plummer and James Mason), "FROM HELL" could qualify as a re-make. Both flicks have: (A) the detectives becoming involved with Mary Kelly while trying to stop her murder, (B) a royal physician involved in a cover-up, (C) the Masons secret order trying to save the monarchy, (D) an illegitimate baby born to the same historic royal suspect in both movies (you even have amazingly similar madhouse scenes in which the detective visits the baby's mother - Genevieve Bujold in the first movie), (E) a psychic who uses laudanum (Donald Sutherland in MBD), (F) a killer transported by coach and - (G) in what may be a visual reference to MBD by the Hughes brothers - the use of oversized black contact lenses in the eyes of the killer at one point in "FROM HELL" which is the same technique used to make the killer's eyes scary in MBD. The near-to-final images of both films (by the sea shore) are almost identical. There are probably many other similarities, but it's been a long time since I've seen MBD.
"FROM HELL" is obviously a slicker movie (22 years worth of additional technological advances in filmmaking plus a much, much larger budget) but both it and the 1999 graphic novel on which it is based owe a huge debt of inspiration to "MURDER BY DECREE" which for my money is the more entertaining vehicle. So ... just a caution that not everyone will think "FROM HELL" quite as original as many younger viewers believe.