This should have been an epic film.  There was alot of good acting and story line but it just wasn't accurate.  No historian would validate just about any of this movie.

The names of the "characters" were all that was done right here.  It was if the story of Nero was a play written hundreds of years ago that the director could take "artistic liberity" with and "spice it up a bit."  The end result was absurdity as Acte (a barely worthwhile mention by Roman historians) became the prominent figure in the story.  It is a fact that Nero trapped his audiences in the amphitheatres while he was performing and no one was allowed to leave.  The film portrays his music as something the Romans were proud of.  They weren't.  It was an embarrasment to them just as much as it was when Commodus dressed up as a gladiator.  Nero was also a sexual pervert which the movie did not explore.  He had sex with his own mother and raped the Vestial Virgin Rubria as well as married a young boy who took the role of "the man" in their relationship.  He also had another boy castrated to be "the woman" in that one.

Known for his tortures, he was thankfully removed from this world with force by his own people before he was successful in having a man from Egypt who ate people alive arrive in Rome possibly to kill Christians and anyone who Nero felt threatened by.

Nero was a MASSIVE spender of the wealth of Rome as much as he was a MASSIVE thief of the peoples' money.  He would steal land to have it stripped and then rebuilt on.  He had plans to rename Rome "Neropolis" and the month of April to "Neroneus."  He was a self-obsessed egomaniac who this film did not reprsent and then asked us to feel sorry for him - even forgiving him.

And Claudius' wife a good woman in the movie?!?!?!?!?  WHAT?!?!?!?!?  She was the most poisonous bile duct of Claudius' reign!  JSLDFJOI@EJR@J!!!!!  The movie turned her into a saint!

This film should give hope to those who idolize Hitler.  If you make a movie about someone who the world knows is one of the worst humans to ever live and you put a spin on it to portray them as a victim, people will actually buy it.  In fact, the leader of Iran says that the holocaust never happened.  Am I saying the director of this film agrees Hitler is good or that the holocaust never happpend?  But what the director is technically doing is saying that Nero didn't happen.  At least not the historical one.