First off this is a review of the product, not the film. The movie is one of me favorites. With that said here is why I gave the BD a bad rating. I have seen the original release of this Blu-Ray back before Paramount switched sides and if this is just a reissue of that product now that they have to make Blu-Rays again I would recommend getting the DVD. The HD film transfer was terrible. It was the same on the HD-DVD. The only upside to the HD-DVD version is that it at least had a form of HD audio (Dolby Digital Plus - which sounds way better than the original mix). The BD did not and I suspect this one will not either. You are better off getting the DVD and upconverting from that. I have Both HD-DVD and DVD versions (rented the original BD). Film quality on the upconverted DVD is exactly the same as both HD-DVD and Blu-Ray versions. The only thing different (and reason I own the HD) on the HD-DVD version is HD sound. The Blu-Ray has the same sound mix that was available on the DVD. High disappointment for BD owners. Blu-Ray doesn't require HD sound unfortunately - the same thing happened on Michael Clayton (TrueHD on HD-DVD and nothing for BD). If you have a HD-DVD player and you want the HD sound (you must have a HD receiver to get this benefit) I recommend that version otherwise save your money for a different BD release that deserves you patronage. If this is a cleaned up version feel free to let me know, but since there is nothing that says "Remastered," as The Fifth Element had, I will assume you haven't seen Pirates of the Caribbean, Cars, Casino Royal, National Treasure or the many other stellar BD releases or you just need to get your eyes checked if you give this Blu-Ray a great review. Hope this helps with your shopping.

Edit-Turns out this is just a reissue of the same BD that was originally released back when Blu-Ray launched. No improvements what so ever. Bad HD transfer and no HD sound. If the HD-DVD didn't have Dolby Digital Plus I would have never gotten it on HD-DVD and the lack of an HD sound format on the Blu-Ray makes purchasing this item absolutely pointless, since the DVD upconverted looks exactly the same as the HD transfer.

Great movie. Bad product.