I am eagerly awaiting the release of Invictus on BluRay.  I saw this in theatres when it came out, and I left the theatre as did most people with I think a look and a sense of complete wonderment on my face.  I often feel jaded when seeing films nowadays (for no reason other than this world can make you see films through a prism of cynicism), but Invictus is one of those rare gems that manages to be both a brilliant sports film, and a brilliant political film about the psyche and power of sport, and its ablility to unite, in every sense of the word, and even under the most fractured conditions where incredible distrust and animosity from years of apartheid and other injustices reign.

The film sports some incredibly accurate and authentic rugby scenes (I am a fairly new supporter of the sport beginning from the 2003 World Cup- I would also recommend "Forever Strong" for some of you rugby fanatics), accurately demonstrating the pulverizingly brutal, but ultimately gentlemanly nature of the warriors who play this incredible sport.  More importantly, and what I always believe makes a sports movie rise above the rest is the story of the people in it. This movie is equal parts Francois Pienaar (M. Damon), and Nelson Mandela (M. Freeman).  The genius of Mandela was in sensing the incredible power that Sport had over the previously ruling White Class, and in selling his political plan for unification of South Africa by bringing about reconciliation between whites and blacks.  Mandela does this by convincing Francois Pienaar (captain of SA national Rugby team) and by extension, the Other SpringBoks (nickname for South African Rugby squad) that a victory in the 1995 Worldcup would unify South Africa, even though skepticis abounded at at every turn.

Mandela exhibited political genius by being able to credibly assert to his supporters (who wanted all symbols associated with Springboks eliminated from national discourse) that if he, who had suffered worse than most under apartheid could forgive (and his suffering is given some treatment in the movie in a trip by the Springboks to Robben Island where Mandela was imprisoned and where the players see what he had to actually endure), than they should also be able to forgive, and move on in bringing together the new South Africa- both black and whites.  Mandela knows and gambles ultimately on the unifying power of Sport itself and particularly the Springboks who are revered by White South Africans, but hated by Blacks as they represented a symbol of apartheid and opporession.

Slowly through a series of political maneuvers and with the help of Francois Pienaar who slowly begins to understand and believe in Mandela's plan, and even begins to understand what it means to be South African, and redefines his national identity.  How Mandela does this is in my opinion the result of some real political genious and courage.

Clint Eastwood, once again, delivers a terrific film.  There are just so many moments of this movie that I absolutely love and cannot wait to see again.  So many minor characters that leave grand impressions (like Mandela's head of security and many of the white security forces who are working with Mandela's security team to keep him alive and safe). The scenes never feel forced or cliched.  It is just beautifully done, and I would recommend this to anyone.  I believe that you will turn off your DVD player once this film is over with a sense of wonderment at just incredible this all was, and moreso, that it was true, and you will repeat those words, "I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul.", Invictus "unconquerable".  What a great Film!  Thanks for reading.