I went into watching this with no idea what to expect. I haven't really seen Jennifer Garner in much of anything (wasn't an Alias fan) but I like Kevin Smith and I think Timothy Olyphant is really cute :) so I decided to give it a chance.

This is actually a very sweet, heartfelt little movie. It doesn't contain many earth-shattering revelations about the Meaning of Life but it is head and shoulders above most romantic comedies, in my opinion. It does bring up some interesting points in answer to the question, "How well do we really know the people we love?" I thought that Garner's characters' struggles with the aftermath of her fiance's death - the big secret he concealed from her, dealing with her ex-future-mother-in-law, the roommate who blames himself for her fiance's death, the roommate who is in love with her, the friend who was complicit in her fiance's dishonesty who she's now attracted to, the "other woman," etc. - were realistically-portrayed and entertaining to watch.

Garner was delightful in this role and I thought portrayed the emotions and mental struggles of her character very authentically. Kevin Smith was great - you forget what a good actor he can be because his own movies get so bogged down in substituting volume of dialogue for quality. In this he actually brings a lot of subtle humor and heart to his role, which in his hands would probably have not been handled nearly as deftly. Timothy Olyphant is deliciously sexy and he also brings a lot of subtle light and shading to his role, and plays the romantic hero in a bit of a different way than you usually see. The movie did have some interesting points about how much we blind ourselves to the faults of the people we love. One of my favorite scenes was very near the end, when Gray is talking about a perfect day on the river she shared with her fiance. At the end of the day, driving home, he says he needs to tell her something, and she asks if it will make her happier or less happy. When he says "less happy" she tells him not to tell her. I think we all have a tendency to choose blissful ignorance over painful knowledge where are loved ones are concerned, and can make ourselves be happy with that even when we know we're choosing not to know the whole truth about them.

All in all, this is not a real "feel-good" picture although the ending is happy. It's not a tortured indie but nor is it a brainless mush of a rom-com that we've all seen a hundred million times. I liked it because it was serious and dealt with tough subjects but was uplifting overall. I hate brainless movies, but I also dislike how depressing many "serious" movies are. I don't need any more reasons to lose faith in my fellow man; if I want to see man's inhumanity to man all I have to do is turn on the evening news. I liked "Catch and Release" because it was not a dumb movie but it was not depressing either. Recommended for cynics like me, who still believe in love at the end of the day. :)