Argento's phantom is a long-haired handsome killer (Julian Sands) brought up by rats in the Paris sewers in a prologue lifted straight from the opening penguin baby scenes of Batman Returns.  The basic story is the same  as in the other versions in that he kidnaps a young opera singer (Asia  Argento) and murders people so that she can sing in Romeo and Juliet at the  Paris opera.  Unfortunately, storytelling was never really Argento's strong  point and here the need for a proper narrative defeats him entirely.  The  relationship between Sands and Asia is dealt with in a hurried 2m scene  near the beginning and therefore most of the running time is padded out  with irrelevant murders and other scenes of depravity which are  occasionally interesting in themselves but don't advance the narrative and  could easily have been removed without anyone noticing.  A few scenes are  also really weird and out of kilter particularly a scene set in a bathhouse  brothel featuring lots of naked, fat people and a long scene in which the  rat catcher and his dwarf sidekick whiz through the underground caverns on  a motorised rat killing machine which then crashes and decapitates the  dwarf.  And what about the wacko hallucinations the phantom has sitting on  the obviously fake roof of the opera ?  Visually it looks splendid and the  Hungarian operahouse locations also look authentic and great.  Lovely  photography which is in tune with the depraved nature of the subject matter  by its use of a soupy yellow haze.  Several very gory scenes (body ripped  in half, tongue pulled out, hand eaten by rats) but even these lack any  real flair and have negligible suspense compared to Argento's traditonally  tour-de-force murders.  There's even an anti-climatic ending in which the  phantom is merely shot by the police.  Must be seen as a major  disappointment.
The DVD extras are also feeble - the behind-the-scenes  documentary suddenly cuts out after 10m just when it is getting interesting  and the Sands interview is pathetic.