I truly enjoyed the Spider-Man movie.  Spider-man's acrobatics and and graceful leaps and swings over the city of New York never looked more impressive.  The Hobgoblin's defiance of gravity was well done too.  If there was an award for fight choreography while in the air, the people who made this movie would win it.

In addition I was impressed by the Sandman.  They couldn't have picked a better actor to play the role and NEVER has the Sandman seemed more menacing or impressive.  He reminded me of some of those monsters from the 1960s issues of Strange Tales.  BEWARE!!!  FOR TODAY, THE SANDMAN WALKS!!!

The Sandman was easily my favorite villain in this movie.

Actually he was my favorite villain of ALL the Spider-Man movies.  They did a far better job on him than I ever expected they would.

That having been said, I had a few problems with the movie.

Let's start with those "pumpkin grenades" the Hobgoblin used.  In one scene a grenade exploded right in Harry's lap ... or his face.  You can't really see the grenades exact location when it blows up, the point is that Harry is at ground zero at the time.  Not only should Harry be dead, but his body should have shrapnel embedded in his bones and muscle tissue.  Most of his body should be scorched and burned beyond recognition.

However in the movie, they ignore this.

Instead of being dead, Harry has some burn damage to approximately 40% of his face.  And to make it even more ridiculous the burns don't even look fresh.  They look as if they've been healing for ten or fifteen years!

Then it gets more ridiculous.

Later in the movie, Harry throws one of his grenades at the Sandman.  When it explodes half the Sandman's head blows up.  At the time the Sandman's head is approximately 10 feet wide and approximately 12 feet tall.

The same type of grenade ..... but dramatically different damage.

Then things get FAR MORE ridiculous at the end of the movie.  One of those same grenades is used on Eddie Brock and the black symbiote.  THIS TIME the grenade does EVEN MORE damage!  Both Brock and the symbiote are incinerated.  After the explosion there's no charred flesh.  There's no broken bones.  There's no charred jawbone for identification by dental records.  There's not even any blood!  Eddie and the symbiote are totally vaporized!

The same type of grenade that was used on Harry.  Only Harry survived with relatively minor damage.

Did the writers and directors think that nobody would notice?

Okay, that was my main complaint, but there is one more.

After Mary Jane breaks up with Peter, he goes to the Jazz Club where she works.  He's acting like a guy on steroids at the time and engages in a number of activities that are either illegal or extremely tasteless.

The main illegal activities I'm alluding to are when commits at least three acts of assault.  First he assaults the bouncer.  Then he assaults the club manager.  Then he assaults the lounge singer.

There might have been more people he hit, but it all happened so fast it was hard to tell.

Of course the club manager would love to press criminal charges against Peter Parker if he could ever find him or knew where he lived.  Mary Jane obviously didn't rat him out, but at the end of the movie PETER RETURNS TO THE CLUB WHERE HE COMMITTED MULTIPLE FELONIES!!!!

The club manager and the bouncer would recognize him almost instantly and call the cops to have him arrested.

If the club manager is a really nice guy he might not press charges and merely have Peter banned from the club for life.

But really....... are any of the club managers in New York City THAT nice??