Well, not exactly a zero. I admit, the crude, and often, sexual, humor of the Wayan Brothers always brings a laugh out of me. But unfortunately for the third movie of the "Scary Movie" series, this one is by far, the worst. As with most movies and series, the quality just keeps going down... and "Scary Movie 3" is not an exception.
"Scary Movie 3" uses "The Ring" and "Signs" as the main themes of the third installment. The beginning of the movie is exactly like the beginning of "The Ring" with Pamela Lee Anderson and Jenny McCarthy. It was pretty hilarious to watch, as also what the Scary Movies do is point out questionable and often, stupid, aspects of the movies that they are portraying.
Charlie Sheen and Simon Rex are two of the main characters in this movie, with the theme of "Signs". Sheen is an ex-priest living on a farm with his wanna-be rapper brother, Rex. Faris returns as the leading character in the film, as a news reporter. She represents Naomi Watts' character in "The Ring" who is a newspaper reporter trying to find out about the mystery of the videotape. Regina Hall also re-appears as Faris' good friend, who is now a teacher. There are cameos by Queen Latifah, George Carlin, Eddie Griffin, Denise Richards, and Leslie Nielson (Gun 1 1/2), are some of the actors/actresses that appear in the movie.
With ideas from "The Sixth Sense", Faris' nephew has an extrasensory sense that gives him the ability to see and know things that other people do not. Also, there is a part of the movie that uses "The Others". Rex's character portrays Eminem in "8 Mile", with a MC battle scene. It also uses ideas from "The Matrix Reloaded", with Queen Latifah as the Oracle and Eddie Griffin as Morpheus.
Faris' character begins investigating the mystery of the crop circles that appear in Sheen's field, and she discovers a mysterious tape that "kills" people. The story unfolds, character's stories are told, and aliens land on earth...
The movie had its funny parts, but most of it was corny and typical as they come, much like stale popcorn you get at the theatre. Most of the crude, sexual humor that made "Scary Movie" so popular is not there as much and neither is the signature "release" scene, which I was looking forward to but got disappointed when I found out there was no such scene in this one.
My advice would have been to keep it the crude, sexual humor that made the two predecessors so popular, and keep away from the corniness. Keenan Ivory Wayans apparently rushed the filming of this movie, wanting to complete it as soon as possible. It shows, very strongly, in the movie. Instead of making it even funnier, all they added was more cameos or eye candy, to keep the audience entertained. I'm sorry, but I did not take it.
I didn't bother to watch any extras but the alternate ending. It was a good thing that they didn't use this as the real ending, it was twice as corny. Rex turns into the Hulk, and Faris goes into the Matrix...
For any Scary Movie fans, it's something to watch, it's entertaining enough. But if you haven't watched any Scary Movies yet, I would recommend watching the movie in order. It also helps to make sense between the first and second one. I also noticed that there is no connection between the first two movies and the third one, except the return of Faris's and Hall's characters.