It always saddens me to see great actors take misteps like this one... Bobby, did you read the script all the way to the end? ...or at least, did you make it to the part where you are killed off? This film tries hard to present itself as a criticism of the U.S. media and legal system, but fails miserably.  The problem is that... it tries to hard and gives us nothing but stereotyped cartoon characters void of real emotion, actions, or thoughts.  It might have worked as a straight out farce with a better script and better acting... but instead we get bundled up mess that can't decide if it wants to be an action thriller or a black comedy.
Now, is the premise that implausible? I mean... could a pair of Eurotrash hoods come to the U.S., commit a murder, tape it, sell it to the media for 1 million dollars, and make plans to take an insanity plea and make even more off of movie rights? Whether it could happen or not is not really the question here.  The problem is that even if it was pausible, this movie makes it seem impausible without a doubt.  It is never for a second believable.  A cop in NY gets shot, the whole event gets caught on tape, and the lawyer decides to go for the insanity plea (a plea seldom taken, btw, because it is so difficult to prove)?.  And, when the guilty parties are caught, viewing the tape at a Planet Hollywood mind you, the first person to arrive is a fire marshall? give us a break! So, if the film makers goal was to direct our attention to the dangers of the media, the lousy execution of the film goes counterproductive to that very goal.  I finished the film by going, "yeah, right".  At least with "Natural Born Killers" (yes... I know... you hated it) we knew where we stood.  I got the message, and it made me think.  This film only made me consider marching down to the local movie rental place for my money back (and the 2 hours of my life I wasted).
Every movie cliche you can think of is here... the wily reporter, the unlikely cop duo, the unlikely romance, the cardboard villans, the sneaky lawyers, etc. etc. etc.  Geez, and how about Ed Burns' character punching the reporter in the face! Didn't see THAT coming.  It is an insult to anyone watching.  I won't give away the ending, just because I respect your right to disregard my stern warnings and make up your mind.  But, I will add that it is about a lousy and improbable an ending as I've ever seen.  Rent it... but don't say you weren't warned.