It pains me not to give this movie five stars. What a magnificent failure! What fluff and froth! The perfect movie to watch on a lazy Saturday afternoon...or at 2:00 am when you find yourself suddenly awake and incapable of going back to sleep. CSTM is "quicker picker-upper" Nancy Walker's sole directorial effort (she's quoted on the DVD extra, "The Village People Story," as defining movies as "nothing but little pieces of ... snipped together"). Like Mae West's 1978 box office dud, "Sextette," CSTM has just about everything you'd expect to find in a camp classic (beautiful men, clever women, music, over-produced self-spoofing dance numbers, costumes, costumes, and more costumes)...everything except wit, that is. But camp humor is most successful when directed against a staid and self-satisfied oppressive regime. And CSTM (like "Sextette" before it) was conceived when disco was thriving, acceptance of gay and bi culture was at its peak, and most people still believed "whatever people did was okay as long as they didn't hurt anyone." Double entendres just don't have a reason to exist when there is no moral overlord to subvert. By the time CSTM was released in 1980, disco was as dead as Duncan in Act 2, Scene 3 of "Macbeth." A year later, rumors of a "gay cancer" would change the mood of the gay community forever (in fact, a decade later AIDS would take the life of Jacques Morali, one of CSTM's creators).
One wonders who Walker turned to for advice while making this film. It is a veritable Cornell box of filmic allusions (one thinks immediately of her own explanation of what she was doing). In defter hand, say Truffaut's, these efforts might be considered homages. But in Walker's, they seem to be more the bold thievings of a street Arab desperate to grab anything that might be sellable. Among the plundered are: Busby Berkeley (especially, "The Gang's All Here"), Howard Hawks (compare the YMCA number with Jane Russell's efforts to play games with the Olympic team in "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"), "My Sister Eileen" (does anyone in Greenwich Village have an apartment the size of the ones in these two movies?), and every Mick and Judy "gee, it would be swell to put on a show" MGM musical. And then there's Marilyn Sokol, who turns in a fine performance in the Nancy Walker role of the homely-but-horny sidekick of the beautiful blonde lead. The Village People were great just being themselves. The only real disappointment was Bruce Jenner. He's not an actor and he has a high nasal voice that seems at odds with his athletic physique. One wonders if co-star Valerie Perrine wasn't speaking to Jenner the actor, rather than to his character, when she said, "It takes more than a pretty face."
My one remaining question is, if "Can't Stop the Music" is finally out on DVD, can "Valley of the Dolls" be far behind? Hey, Hollywood, what are you waiting for?!!!?