8 medicine students are going to a hut on their Easter vacation.

The movie starts with a young woman running through the snowy forest. She stops, only to see that her pursuers are closing in on her.

Next scene: Four guys (Roy, Vegard, Martin and Erlend) ride in one car while 3 of the girls (Liv, Hanna and Chris) ride in another, on their way to the cabin. The last girl, Sara, had decided to ski her way  there. When the 7 people in the cars reach their destination, they rejoice  in the snow and come the evening, they play games and enjoy themselves indoors.

Then a man comes by and tell them about the history of the place. During WW2 a German Einsats group was there, lead by colonel Herzog. They were violent and began a terror campaign against the civilian population. When the tide turned, the Germans luted the homes of the locals, grabbing all valuables they could get their hands on. Those who objected were shot. The people had had enough, and they armed themselves with anything that could be used as a weapon, from hammers to shovels, and went after the nazis. Some Germans were killed but Herzog was among those who managed to escape. They sought refuge in the mountains, where they were believed to have frozen to death. People in the area still avoided the place, afraid of resurrecting the evil there.

The following day Sara still hasn't returned, and Vegard takes the snow scooter to go look for her. He tells his friends that if he's not back by tomorrow, they shall go back and get help. The 6 remaining students spend another day in the snow. In the evening, Chris fails to return from the outside lavatory, and the guys are sent out to look for her. They can't find Chris, but they do find Sara's backpack. Then they meet Herzog and his boys.
As for the rest, order the DVD and enjoy it! (I haven't revealed as much as it might seem.)

This movie is absolutely wonderful; it has everything a great zombie flick should contain. Blood, gore, screaming and some hilarious moments. It can somewhat be compared with "Evil dead" and "Shaun of the dead". In Norway this DVD was placed in the category nazi-zombie-horror-splatter-comedy. Nothing less!

I recommend this one for all lovers of zombies, horror, splatter and/ or (dark) comedy.