I stumbled onto this amazing trailer and immediately fell in love with its approach. And when I walked in to the cinema to watch this feature, I found my heart racing at 20x its average...It's the feeling you get when you are about to see something amazing, something definitive, something wonderful, something bigger than myself...a movie that is sincere, perfect and profound in its deliverance.

Having Paul Haggis rewrite the screenplay from the original Italian flick ("L'Ultimo bacio") was a blessing in disguise and to couple it with Tony Goldwyn's confrontational values as an actor/director The Last Kiss in its finality is just simply amazing.

Michael (Zach Braff) is an architect with a somewhat perfect life, the perfect girlfriend, the perfect job, good friends and family...but is on the verge of having an existential crisis. He finds himself knocking on the big 30 and his charming girlfriend, Jenna (Jacinda Barrett) just got pregnant. He soon finds himself pushing the panic button...is it time to grow up, to finally settle and wake up to one person for the rest of his life? And the mere fact that his best buddies aren't doing too well with the relationship department isn't helping him either.

He's good buddy Izzy (Michael Weston) is still not over his ex, and Kenny (Eric Christian Olsen) who bartends and sleeps with every female he comes into contact with...and then there's Chris (Casey Affleck) who is married and has a baby...but finds his marriage drifting apart.

Michael finds himself lost in the seemingly confusing world of life and relationship, that is until he bumps into a pretty college student Kim (Rachel Bilson)...tempting him to move on...tempting him to taste life from her lips. Finding himself in a tricky spot he has to make a choice, but will it be right one?

Loveable/laughable/sensual/amazing/perfect/ it is everything packaged in the loudest tone...we all have choices to make...this movie teaches us that there are consequences and no matter what we do, we learn and grow from our mistakes...and most of all we never give up on something we love...I give this movie 2 thumbs up and all of my heart, it deserves the right amount of attention and admiration...the total movie experience. In its honesty and all sincerity - The Last Kiss strikes me as a monumental piece that does not fail to deliver at its weakest but sets the distance at its best. Hands down the best feature I've seen all year...perhaps in a very long time.

Please do also check out the soundtrack it complements the movie so much that it becomes the heart and soul of every defining scene...