Prior to viewing, I hadn't seen any movie with Josh Hartnett before, so, frankly, I didn't know what to expect from him.  Still, I already knew director Ron Shelton writes relatively solid screenplays, and the solid supporting cast (including Lena Olin, Bruce Greenwood, Keith David, and cameos by Lou Diamond Phillips, Smokey Robinson, among a few others) seemed most promising.  With those positives in mind (particularly Harrison Ford's always reliable presence), I gave "Hollywood Homicide" a home DVD screening recently on a Saturday night.

Here's the premise: two mismatched L.A. homicide cops (Ford & Hartnett) are partners on the gang slaying of a hip-hop rap group amidst a melee in a downtown nightclub.  Ford's character, Joe Gavilan (who is also desperately trying to sell off a lavish monstrosity of a home in the hills in his part-time gig as a real estate agent), also has the burden of covering for his distracted, young partner, who wants to give up police work to become a 'serious' actor.  Meanwhile, the drug-dealing thug (Isaiah Washington's character) who masterminded the multiple-homicide has a corrupt cop on his side (who, conveniently enough, has ties to the death of Hartnett's father, also a cop).  To add a little extra spice to the storyline, another corrupt cop (played by Bruce Greenwood) in Internal Affairs is cracking down on our heroes' outside interests.  Not too original, is it?

I simply couldn't believe my eyes as to how terrible this movie really is.  Every conceivable cop movie clich&eacute; is here (the mismatched partners, corrupt cops, Internal Affairs, stupid car chases, vicious drug dealers, etc.), but Shelton's generic script doesn't bring anything new to the table.  Ford (playing a cop for the umpteenth time) clearly looks bored out of his mind, and seems no doubt as tired and haggard as the grizzled character he plays.  Hartnett, as Ford's yoga-loving sidekick, doesn't provide even adequate back-up, since he too knows this movie is simply a contractual obligation and nothing more.

All in all, the movie felt completely artificial to me in that none of the performances were remotely plausible (with the exception of Isaiah Washington, who at least redeems himself as the chief villain).  It just seemed like I was watching movie stars acting for the sake of acting vs. seeing them portray the cops and the robbers they want you to believe they are. As an example, the film's worst scene (there are far too many to choose from, mind you) arguably comes at the climax in which Hartnett commandeers a family SUV (complete with Mom and two little kids in the backseat) to prolong a violent chase sequence.  Listening to Hartnett banter with the kids while chasing the bad guys is a painful lesson in bad taste in terms of needlessly endangering innocent lives for a cheap action movie thrill.

In the end, here's my suggestion: carefully examine the promo picture on the DVD box.  To me, it was the only honest thing about the movie, because it delivers exactly what you are going to see: a generic buddy cop flick.  Still, from that picture, if you can somehow convince yourself that Ford and Harnett look even remotely interested in selling this movie, then maybe you should give "Hollywood Homicide" a chance.  Otherwise, you're definitely better off finding something else to invest your time and money in.

Side Note: As for the DVD special features, they are all standard issue, so don't expect anything redeeming in that regard for your potential purchase.