So this movie was supposed to be a depiction of real-life events in the life of an investigative reporter determined to expose the seedy underbelly of an organized crime group in Dublin.  I don't mean any disrespect to Ms. Guerin or the work that she did for her country, but this movie doesn't do well depicting her motivations and life.

I cannot imagine how a woman who has been personally threatened, who has had her family threatened, and who has survived an [...] attempt, would continue to pursue her goal as dogmatically and as recklessly as Ms. Guerin did in this movie.  I'm not saying she should have stopped what she was doing, but there had to have been other ways for her to get the story without as much personal risk to her and her family.

I crystallized this conclusion when I saw the scene where Ms. Guerin approaches Mr. Galligan, basically the top man in the crime syndicate, at his estate, which is expansive and includes a horse ranch.  By this point Ms. Guerin has already been shot once (at her son's birthday party!) and had her family's life threatened.  Yet she, without a wire or other police assistance, walks right up to Mr. Galligan's door and asks him point blank how he can afford his life when he has no obvious source of income.  This of course results in her getting the [...] kicked out of her.  What did she expect, milk and cookies?

For all the chutzpah Ms. Guerin showed when approaching the crime lords face to face, I would have expected her to pull at least a Buffy or two.  When you ask the cheeky questions in dangerous situations, you better either have a big bodyguard or be able to take care of yourself.  She had neither, and, in a way, invited the physical abuse upon herself.

Again, I don't mean to put down Ms. Guerin's real-life accomplishment in terms of calling attention to the drug problem thus starting its eradication, but the Veronica Guerin portrayed in this film was no doubt meant to appear strong, confident, and passionate about her cause; she came across instead as headstrong and reckless, placing her and her family's life in jeopardy.