I'll agree that the show is not one of thier best by any means... ok, so we've got an average or sub-par Phish show... but, an average Phish show is still a GREAT show.  As a Phish fan myself, I would have liked to see certain songs that weren't included and more emphasis placed on jams.  The set wasnt ALL bad, though:  Some highlights:
I Didn't Know- Good one for Phish fans. A Capella delight with a little suprise... if you've never heard Phishman play the vacuum cleaner, you're in for a treat-- very interesting.
Weekapaug Groove- Rarely does one get to see Mike wail so much on bass.  Not the best version of the song, but since this is not available on any Phish studio album, the dolby digital really makes it sing. This track alone makes the purchase price of the DVD worthwhile in my opinion, but shouldnt be considered a deal maker for everyone.
Fly Famous Mockingbird- Trey does a nice, funny preamble, though it does drag on a bit. The song itself if nice.  Trey's guitar work on this song never ceases to amaze me.
Twist- Despite what some fans think about Farmhouse, I simply love the album; especially this song, and this is one of the best versions I have ever heard. Long, jammin, heavy.  I like it.
Emotional Rescue- Just great. Love this part of the performance- the Trey/Mike thing at the end is simply adorable. I was laughing quite a bit at this... if for nothing else, the visual aspect of the disc really makes this moment shine.
The audio quality on this DVD is top notch-- I'd love to see more concert albums out there with this kind of 5.1 treatment-- a lot of effort must have gone into making this Dolby Digital mix.  This is not one of those muddy, washed out, inactive audio tracks that many concert DVDs suffer from.  It also doesnt use the channels inappropriately-- the soundstage remains firmly fixated in the front where it belong and the rears are used for ambiance such as the audience and the general sounds you'd normally hear from behind you at a concert like this with the ever-so-slight reverb from the sound hitting the walls.  The depth of sound isnt as wonderful as it could be-- would love to see what the live Phish sound crew could do with the DVD-A or SACD format, but for a dolby digital mix, it delivers the goods.
The video is a different story.  This is some of the worst live footage I have ever seen on DVD... absolutely terrible camera work and video editing-- and the picture itself is grainy and washed out. I would agree with what was said about some of the Bittersweet Motel footage being a bit better. 
If you're a hardcore Phish fan, you have already picked up a copy of this or plan on doing so I'm sure. Casual fans might enjoy it despite the somewhat week performance-- I'd say rent it if you can find it or borrow it from a friend before purchasing it if you're just an occasionaly listener. General live concert DVD fans-- The audio is stellar but the video is wretched... it's a toss up.  
Performance: 3 stars
Audio Quality: 5 stars
Video Quality: 3 stars
Overall: Have to give it a big 4-- the performance may be lacking and the video is definately terrible, but the audio offers some amazing quality, and this is, as of yet, the only live Phish DVD... 3.8 stars?