Let me state from the beginning that this is my favourite film of all time. I am a huge movie buff and have a massive library of dvd's, and yet somehow this still remains my number one. There are many reasons for this- film races along at a terrific pace throughout and is the perfect meld of sci-fi, horror and drama. The direction by David Cronenberg is simply sublime. Jeff Goldblum, Geena Davis and John Getz are all perfectly cast in their roles. The effects are still strong and hold up nearly 25 years after the films initial release.

The story follows Seth Brundle (Jeff Goldblum), who is working on something quite big- a pair of telepods that allow for instant teleportation. The film begins with him inviting the lovely Vernonica Quaife (Geena Davis) back to his apartment/ lab to see what he has been working on. She is amazed at what she finds and the two of them decide that she will follow him and write a book about his invention. Before long the two fall in love, and her boss (John Getz) gets extremely jealous of this; beginning an intriguing love triangle. In the meantime, something went wrong when Seth Brundlefly teleported himself for the first time. Something got in there with him and went undetected, causing genetic splicing between himself and a housefly. From thereon things get extremely weird, and gory...

I cannot rave about this film enough. Jeff Goldblum gives one of the truly quintessential lead performances in his role of Seth Brundle- from his nerdy, awkward beginnings to his horrific demise in the final third. I won't spoil anything for the uninitiated other than to say this is like a superhero movie gone wrong. Instead of becoming selfless and heroic as a result of the splicing incident, he becomes hell-bent on self preservation. The movie has been seen as an allegory for everything from AIDS to heroin addiction.

As for the blu-ray transfer - it really is quite impressive. The effects look terrific in high-definition, and though it will not become a show-off disc it is a vast improvement over the previous dvd releases. The extras are the same as the special dvd edition that was released a few years back, and there is the addition of a new trivia track. When you consider that one of those extras is a 3 hour-plus documentary about the making of the film, this becomes a no-brainer. I highly recommend both the excellent movie and the wholly decent blu-ray release.