(SPOILERS ahead)

Lone Man is among no one.
Lone Man cares nothing for this life.
Lone Man centers himself with a variation on traditional Buddhist yogic meditation.  He is, after all, a Zen Assassin.
Lone Man dresses in handsome suits, fancy shirts, and black shiny shoes.  This is his disguise.
Lone Man ultilizes color-coded matchboxes to trade information and merchandise with a subversive network of conspiratorial radicals I call "the Ferrymen."
Lone Man receives and memorizes the Ferrymen's coded messages, which are written on tiny folded-up slips of paper.  He then pops the messages into his mouth like pills, washes them down with espresso shots, and lets the information digest.
Lone Man does not speak Spanish.  Or so he repeatedly says.
Lone Man speaks Spanish.
Lone Man is informed by a Ferrywoman named Blonde that Orson Welles' LADY FROM SHANGHAI makes no sense.  She's right.
Lone Man is wary of the omnipresent American helicopters noisily wup-wup-wupping overhead.  These are his and the Ferrymen's enemies.
Lone Man doesn't smile alot.  Only at playful children and soulful music.
Lone Man gazes intently at museum paintings, wall posters, and art exhibits depicting the various people, places, and objects he either has encountered or soon will encounter.  Odd, no?
Lone Man remains celibate throughout the duration of his missions, even when confronted with the seductive Ferrywoman named Nude.
Lone Man is compelled by a Ferrywoman named Molecule to ponder the sublime and mysterious nature of the subatomic universe.
Lone Man uses his imagination to break into a heavily guarded fortress in order to strangle a hippie-hating control freak with a guitar string.  This was his mission.
Lone Man's final secret message, received from the cold dead hand of Nude's corpse, is entirely blank.
Lone Man discreetly sheds his snappy duds, slips on some fashionably casual attire, disposes of any and all incriminating evidence, and disappears into the sprawling city bustle.
Lone Man is among no one.
Lone Man cares nothing for this life.