The story goes that Clint Eastwood saw Charlie Parker perform in the early 1950s, and was a fan from that time onwards.  By the late '80s, Eastwood was a huge enough star that he could indulge in a pet project like this.  Not astonishingly, _Bird_ was too distinctive and original for consumers of typical Hollywood product, and Eastwood subsequently went back to Dirty Harry movies.
  Too bad!  This loving tribute to the doomed bop genius is a treat for the knowledgeable Parker fan.  By "knowledgeable"  I mean that the viewer is expected to be familiar enough with his life to follow several flash-backs and flash-forwards.  As in any biopic, material is added, deleted, and massaged, as the story requires.  Viewers who know that Parker didn't really witness the birth of rock and roll, and that he had a black first wife, and etc., should just congratulate themselves on their perceptiveness and continue enjoying the film.
  The big cinematic innovation in this film is the music.  Parker's recordings were stripped of accompaniment, down to Parker's sax lines, and new accompaniment recorded on top of them.  This adds freshness to the music, and makes it seem revolutionary all over again.  The cast is good, with Forrest Whitaker projecting a kind of lumpy, vulnerable, cool.
  The only thing that could be construed as a misstep is the movie's darkness.  Most of the scenes are in smoky clubs or dark alleys.  Spike Lee complained that everything was too dark.  He might better study how to write coherent endings to his own movies, but he's right.  Eastwood was trying for a noir effect, but it doesn't work in color.  If he had chosen to film in black and white, he might have succeeded.
  Some critics wanted more musicology, but Eastwood was right in devoting only one short scene to how Bird got his sound.  What's interesting on paper wouldn't have worked onscreen.  Other critics were offended that a white man presumed to tell a black artist's story, and deplored the dearth of all the possible afro-rants that could have been stuffed into the script.  They're wrong, too.  Racial prejudice is present in the film, but Eastwood correctly does not give it center stage.  And, if they look real, real closely, they'll see that this is serious, high-quality film with a 90% black cast--are there too many of those being produced these days?
  So, if you like Clint Eastwood but don't know who Charlie Parker is, read an encyclopedia article on Bird and then groove on this.  If you like Parker but are iffy about Eastwood, fear not--Clint's done a great job preserving this great genius' memory.  Don't forget the "Salt Peanuts"!