SWORDFISH has everything a good action film should have - explosions, beautiful women, high-tech gadgets, guns, fast cars, spies, and golf.  When compared with other Action films of late, SWORDFISH is almost perfect.  At no point do you doubt the action authenticity of this film.  Probably the only thing that doesn't lend to action legitimacy is the concept of a fairly clever story line with all the little twists and surprises of a classic.  Meanwhile, there is also a terrorist element to the film that is guaranteed to make you cringe when put into today's real world perspective.
The Basics:  the essential synopsis of SWORDFISH begins almost in reverse with a fantastic hostage scene.  Then it clicks back a bit to a computer genius fresh out of Leavenworth who will go straight back to the big house if he even touches a computer.  But, he can't resist the enticing messenger sent to drag him back into the techno world of computer thievery.  She's offering him money, a chance to be a hacker king again, and most importantly, his little girl.  Of course, he has to deal with a madman and his underground, spy network all the while playing a dirty, little cat and mouse game with the FBI, DEA, and all other manner of government what-not.  That's the basics. 
The Stars:  John Travolta (PULP FICTION; STAYIN' ALIVE) does another fantastic job as a madman gone madder, Gabriel.  While his work may not be a virtual act of genius (i.e. Kevin Spacey), he does have all it takes to play a variety of roles over large spans of film time and maintain a certain something that keeps him watchable (i.e. Tommy Lee Jones).  Travolta has stood the test of time, and SWORDFISH is no different.  Even though he's certainly not the good guy, Travolta is smooth, crazy, ingenious, and @$$-kicking throughout the film.
Hugh Jackman (X-MEN; KATE AND LEOPOLD), you remember him as Wolverine from the X-MEN movie, is no joke himself.  He's the hacker.  Where his fingers were claws of adamantium steel in S-MEN, they are lithe and nimble in SWORDFISH.  Many of us had our doubts about Jackman playing one of the greatest superheroes of all time, but he did no wrong as Wolverine and he continues the winning streak here.  The first time he touches a keyboard in the movie, you know things are going to, er, heat up.
Halle Berry (X-MEN; JUNGLE FEVER; BULLWORTH) plays Ginger, Gabriel's temptress, and you're never sure of her motives.  She's certainly pleasing all over this flick.  Don Cheadle (TRAFFIC; BOOGIE NIGHTS; ROSEWOOD) continues his own brand of smoothness as Roberts, the leader of a computer crime task force.  Meanwhile, Vinnie Jones (SNATCH; LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS) is underused and underrated once again.  He plays Marco, one of Gabriel's henchmen, and they definitely don't give him enough play.  It was the same thing in GONE IN 60 SECONDS.  SWORDFISH is no different.  This guy is one of the most intimidating actors on the market.  Sure, he can scare the holy hiccups out of you with just a look, but when he gets to talking all his smooth, British jive, he makes you want to dribble down your legs.  He's scary in a delightful way.
This cast is brilliantly supported by a careening plot and stunning effects.  The underworld spy, anti-terrorist, if-the-American-people-knew-about-you, you'd-all-be-in-prison, organization led by Gabriel might send shudders up your spine, but at least you won't be bored with the storyline.  Meanwhile, you may not dig hostages being turned into giant human claymore mines, but in this flick, their explosions are accompanied by special effects that are sure to wow any audience.
The sounds, the styles, the technology involved, and the overall concept of this new Action-packed rental give it a flavor that may not be for everyone, but is certainly spicy.