I have been a Godzilla fan since the time I first saw the Raymond Burr version on TV. The local UHF station used to show Godzilla movies, and I loved them. I even stayed with him when he went from villain to Earth's defender (although I never cared for him in that role). I think my interest wained when Godzilla's son Minya came along. And then came the saddest bunch of villain monsters that ever stomped across a movie set.

When he was reborn in "Godzilla 1985", I was thrilled. He had been returned to his roots. An unstoppable force of nature that had to be dealt with.

Then came the second round of reborn Big G flicks- starting with "Godzilla vs. Biollante". Wow. Up to date techniques and a cool looking Godzilla! Over the next few years, many cool Godzilla movies with him as the "bad guy" were made.

Then things started to drift again- about the time they made "Godzilla v Space Godzilla".  I still caught all of them, though. And in many cases, TOHO said that "this would be the last one".

Well, now we are up to "Godzilla Final Wars".  I looked forward to it. However... fellow Godzilla fans were sensing a disturbance in the force.  There were some that were saying this movie was... lousy!  Despite these dire warnings, I bought it.

Words cannot express my disappointment. Toho had jump started their Big G series by dumping the stupid monsters of the 60s and early 70s- Gigan, Hedorah, Varan, Ebirah, King Caeser etc.  They had even dumped Minya.  Well, here they all were again, and it wasn't a Happy Homecoming.

The plot was basically a reworking of the 1960s "Destroy All Monsters".  There were a lot of homages to past Big G films.  But it didn't click.  The SPFX ranged from passable to lousy (the monster Zilla, based on the American Godzilla, was downright awful CGI, and didn't blend in with its scenes with Big G). 1/3 of the story is filled with Matrix style fighting between humans and aliens. And the worst part was they brought back Minya- here called Minilla or some such. Ugh.

I wanted to like this movie. I really did. But it was a chore to endure this film.

Toho has said before that they were making the "last" Godzilla movie.  I am hoping that Big G does come back again.  He deserved a better ending than this one.

Maybe Peter Jackson will do a decent remake of "King Kong v Godzilla"?  Now THAT would be a great movie.