I'm a big fan of Kevin Smith's first five movies, but I was well aware before entering the theater for Jersey Girl that this was not View Askew's classic blend of dick and fart jokes.  If I hadn't known that, I might have wondered what the hell was going on, as this is actually a touching movie.
Jersey Girl has less similarities to Mallrats and more to Chasing Amy; it's about how love doesn't always go the way you think it should, but that doesn't mean it sucks completely.  One thing that really took me by surprise was that the movie was less about Ollie Trinke and the video store clerk falling in love, but more about Ollie connecting with his daughter, and discovering what he really wants out of life, with a little help from Will Smith (ANOTHER big surprise there!  Sorry if I ruined it for ya).
The movie may not be as slapstick and vulgar as Smith's previous works, but that doesn't mean it's squeaky clean and straight-laced; plenty of laughs in this flick.  I liked the fact that Gertie, rather than perform something childlike and cute at the pageant, chooses a scene from Sweeny Todd, of all things.  The acting here is as top-notch as the cast that delivers it; Jason Biggs and George Carlin were great, and Liv Tyler is cute as a button.  Also, the soundtrack deserves a nod, especially for throwing in that Cure song at the end, which fit in perfectly.
The quabbles I had with the movie are few.  The biggest one was the scene in which Trinke is talking to his infant daughter about her mother; it's a little too melodramatic.  Afflek's acting just wasn't his best there, but it's still a good scene.  The choice to include "Landslide" in the soundtrack was poor; not because it's a bad song, mind you (as it's not), but because I'm sure it's been used in plenty of soundtracks before, and it was a "safe" choice.  Also, the scene with the diaper-changing was disgusting... though it was supposed to be.  Actually, I just don't like watching the scene, heh.
So I give this movie 4/5 stars.  I don't think it's his best work ever, and it's dangerously close to chick flick status, but it's a really good movie that will warm your soul.  View Askew has by no means lost their touch, and I hope whatever movies they produce in the future are this good or better.