After watching the film, "He Was A Quiet Man", my summary of the film would read something along the lines of, "A sad, and at times beautiful, haunted little vision of the world."

However after some reflection and wading through the sparse EXTRAS section of the DVD, watching the alternate endings and listening to the director's commentary track, my summary now reads, "A fine forum to showcase Christian Slater's talents.  Though one wonders why he did not choose to release it in the confines of a film that focused on form over function."

The ending of the film feels tacked on...and with good reason.  It was, to paraphrase the director, "not how the film originally ended but how the film should of ended being nearer in spirit to the original draft of the screen play."

What?

There is nothing wrong with a little rewrite. To say that the ending was telegraphed does a disservice to the years of fine work the telegraph has done as means of mass communication.  All the good will the movie has built up with clever uses of FX, the fine work of the aforementioned Mr.Slater, and a cast of slightly underused supporting players (and let us not forget a talking fish - who doesn't like talking fish?), all this is washed away in the last 10 minutes of the film.  The last line of dialogue uttered by Mr. Slater is, "There comes a time when the diseased and the weak must be sacrificed in order to save the herd." Well that's just dandy, thank you very much I'll take my molotov cocktail and cyanide capsule now, please.

Now, I love a little existential angst as  much as the next woman but a movie that dares to brandish the quote, "Like the bastard child of Brazil, Fight Club and Amelie..." on its DVD box-cover better bring the goods in one of the areas of at least ONE of those films. Quirky romance, dystopian visions of a society where man is reduced to drone, cinematography that either screams "LOOK AT ME, MY COLORS FLY OFF THE SCREEN" or "DON'T LOOK AT ME MY COLOR PALETTE IS DRAB AND MUTED, SO COOL, SO UNDERSTATED" or at the very least have a script with enough verve and panache that I'm willing to overlook the huge leaps of logic it takes for Tyler Durden, Brad Pitt and Edward Norton to all be dancing on the same psychological ID card. Unfortunately somewhere along the way, "Quiet Man" becomes as unhinged as it's protagonist and never really measures up in any of these categories.

For film geeks, the 10 minute featurette on the making of the film does give a good, if short glimpse of the interior works of a low budget film. The commentary track with the director, Frank Cappello, tends to lean towards the anecdotal as opposed to the informative, though a few low-budget tips can be gleaned for those willing to give their hard earned free time to listening to it.