Ah, Wolfgang... you made such an impression on me when I was just 10 years old, "reading" my first foreign film, Das Boot. That movie sticks to you, scares the hooey outta ya, makes you think... but this... this "Storm" this thing... this hideousness.. total lack of subtlety.. makes a guy wanna barf.
I didn't read the book, but of course I knew what was going to happen and being from Boston and all there was a certain allure to this film, the local angle and what-not, but what a gigantic let-down! Here's my experience of the movie in an nutshell.. you can send me your heartfelt thanks for saving you the... rental charge:
1. Some fishing guy gets his pride all hurt and has to go out to prove himself a tough fishing guy in front of his crew and a competing lady fishing guy.
2. You don't know anyone's name on the boat, even a good hour into the film. You're saying to yourself, "Is that guy Murph or Eddie? Is there even an Eddie in this film? Does anyone want me to go get popcorn?"
4. In line getting popcorn you find other movie patrons each with a fixed stare, a sense of impending doom. It's "Rime of the Ancient Snack Bar" as the undead who have been watching this film seek respite from it by standing in line as long as possible. I give everyone behind me "cuts" and stare at the Dove Bar poster behind the counter. Twenty minutes pass.
5. I return with popcorn and ask my date, "What happened?" She says, "The storm is coming." I ask, "The fat guy. Is his name Dougie?" No reply.
6. The big wave from the movie poster comes and kills everyone. I think I hear some muted cheering behind me. I sigh in relief. The fat guy says, "This is going to be hard on my boy." Is that what you'd say if you were in frigid salt-water with a boat on top of you? I think a stream of expletives or frantic praying to the deity of your choice is more apropos. I mean, really... What did he expect Micky (or Dougie or whatever) to say? "Yeah, I'll let your son know you said that after I swim back to shore. See ya." I am dying for another box of popcorn, another peek at the Dove Bar poster
7. Wolfgang Petersen, in a move I believe inspired by custom airbrush paintings on the sides of many 1970's cargo vans, superimposes the angelic softly-focused visage of Wahlberg's girlfriend's face on a far and wide shot of Wahlberg floating quietly in the north Atlantic, so much cinematic flotsam. The voice-over reads some corny letter he wrote to the girlfriend. The End.
I hate this movie almost as much as I do "Twister"