I gave up watching cable TV in the early 90s, so I missed most of the X-Files in their original incarnation. I've always had a soft spot (my fontanel, most likely) for the paranormal, though, so the show's premise always intrigued me. So when I saw the VHS of what I thought were episodes of the TV show for $1 at the Goodwill, I splurged.

Alas, it turns out that I bought the X-Files movie made in 1998. As someone who did not watch the show, I cannot comment on how the movie fits into the whole X-Files universe; I am stuck commenting on it solely as a movie in the SF and/or horror genres.

Some aspects of the film were good. Mulder and Scully were great together, and I am sure that the complementarity of their characters (as a paranormal "Odd Couple" of sorts) was one of the reasons the TV show was so successful. Casting Academy Award-winner Martin Landau as the conspiracy writer and "kook" Kurzweil was an inspired choice, given his ability to convey grave sentiments while still being somehow light-handed about it.

Overall the film was disappointing, though. Again, maybe it is because I did not follow the TV series, but the plot here seemed simultaneously slapdash and derivative. When I say that  it was slapdash, I refer to its significant continuity and plot problems. Why was there an Oklahoma City-like bombing to get at five infected corpses? How in the heck did Mulder make it from the US out into the heart of an Antarctic icefield in 48 hours? How did he and Scully make it home from Antarctica? Where did Scully get the footwear in Antarctica (she has bare feet in one scene, and is walking on Antarctic ice in the next)? These are just a few examples of the badly thought-out plot that afflicts this film.

Even this would forgivable if so much in the movie were not painfully derivative. Extraterrestrials gestating inside human beings and bursting out when they mature definitely sounds familiar. I forget where I saw it before, but the movie had something to do with aliens, I think. The Landau character, while played brilliantly, is far too similar to Donald Sutherland's character in JFK; he knows everything, but how? He is always stalking in the shadows where Mulder can find him while eluding the rest of the nation's intelligence community? Come on. Sadly, if the truth really is out there, the screenwriters probably cribbed it from an earlier film.

Die-hard fans of the TV show might like this film, but for the casual SF and horror fan, it is definitely passable.