The Flatley-vs.-Dunne controversy finds us enjoying both versions of the show greatly. Yes, Flatley is more of an extrovert than Colin Dunne; Flatley is a one-of-a-kind performer/choreographer - but that fact doesn't make Dunne chopped liver, and in fact Dunne dances terrifically in this version of the show. (Rightly considered, it is even to Flatley's credit as the creator and "owner" of the show, that "Riverdance" survived his departure.)
Dunne dances brilliantly, and collaborates very well with Jean Butler. Dunne's reserve is a kind of classical manner, and not at all any lack of "gusto." This is particularly obvious in the sequence which begins as a 'duet' between Maria Pag&eacute;s and a drummer, and which turns into a trio as Dunne appears in a spotlight. Likewise, the call-&-response of the "Trading Taps" sequence is fabulous; if anyone seeing Dunne dance this, finds him an "empty technician," why, perhaps there is something to be said for "empty technique" after all ....
Pag&eacute;s is always a treat, and was always the "third principal" in this show for us. Composer Bill Whelan pulls off some charming sonic feats, by making a small, and mostly Irish-folk-instrument, pit band provide perfectly convincing accompaniments not only for the Irish dance numbers, but for Pag&eacute;s' brilliant flamenco, and for the (strangely heterogeneous, though this will escape most Western viewers) pan-former-Soviet-Union stuff danced by former members of the Moiseyev Company, a troupe which is internationally renowned for their brilliant folk dancing, folk dancing produced at a level on par with Russian ballet, which of course is one of the great dance traditions on the planet.
The "choral" sections are our least favorite part of the show. The "behind-the-scenes footage" is little more than a euphemism for a brief commercial for the show, pleasant to watch, of course, but we felt that there was an opportunity missed for much more material of real interest. Yes, the frantic editing is sometimes a distraction (and there are shots which cut out the dancers' feet, and pans from the back of the hall, which could be done without nicely).
None of these minor complaints, though, seriously detracts from the impact of the show.