Read the other reviews for plot synopsis and film description.  I will say that the script is a bit lacking, but with the skillful acting and direction, the script serves to show the characters as more genuine people (except Daniel, who is far too dramatically cute).  Most of us are not typically well-scripted and most of our characters are not well-educated, making their dialogue all the more believable. Adiel Stein (Pete O'Malley) is the real gem of this film.  His sincerity, playfulness and inquisitiveness just roll off the screen.  He is a joy to watch and listen to.
The problem is that this movie is based on the false ideas of insincere, works-based, self-gratifying religiosity.  It is typical, and with cause, that Roman Catholicism is used for the framework of such heretical portrayal of Christianity and the relationship of God and man.  Although this is a heart-warming story of a young boy trying to do good and the friendships he develops, the genuine fact is that it is a typical contemporary perversion of biblical Christianity.  Religion is portrayed as subjective, relative, and the construct that people have created and use to deal with tragedy or organize their lives.  In that way it is right in step with Freudian postmodern culture.  The most blasphemous statement comes at the end when Peter O'Malley says to Rabbi Jacobsen, "Jesus is just a symbol."  No, Pete, you may have been taught that or inferred it from the vague religion you've been raised with, but Jesus is not a symbol.  He is the perfect son of God, who died on a cross for the sins of humanity, and is the only way to salvation.  Read your bible, don't just let someone tell you about it. The reinforcement of working for your salvation, that doing good means being good and that that somehow obligates God to ignore your sin, is what biblical doctrine strictly refutes.  Read Paul's letter to the Galatians and it should be much clearer. 
Watch the movie, enjoy it, just don't believe in anything it says about salvation or the nature of our relationship to God.