First of all "A Kid's Review", Shawn Michales was NEVER supposed to win the title at Wrestlemania 20, this was BENOIT'S night, Vince was always going to put the belt on him at Wrestlemania, what the hell is the point of slapping the title on a guy who no longer NEEDED it like Michales?

March 14th was all about the culimination of Benoit's journey, to win it any other way would be almost akin to winning a silver medal as opposed to a gold one.

Benoit is, and always will be, superior to Michales, and deserved to win at Wrestlemania.

On to the matches

1. Chris Benoit and William Regal vs Ric Flair and Batista: ***, grat opening tag team match here, Flair did pretty well and took some good bumps from Benoit, who allowed him some credible offesne, Batista just sucked here, why the hell is Benoit opening the PPVs again, he WAS champion last month after all.

2. Trish Stratus vs Victoria: ***1/2, good women's match, an unnecersary ending however with Victoria attacking Tyson Tomko, who ended up costing her the match.

3. Tyson Tomko vs Steven Richards: DUD, What the HELL was this crap? Obviously the WWE are trying to make J.B.L's matches look better than they have any right to be because THIS match is worse than any match I've seen in the company for a damn long time, Steven did'nt get ONE fraction of offense and Tomko strippnig the guy was sickeing.

4. Chris Jericho vs Christian: ***, not as good as previous Ladder matches, sadly the match has been done to death on RAW so many times now it does'nt give us anything different, Jericho's bumps were sick, whilst Christian's bad back prevented any real risks from him, Jericho's "seventh" Intercontinental Championship win was just SAD, the guy does'nt need the championship anymore.

5. Shawn Michales vs Kane: ***1/2, blah match, not as good as most Michales fans would make you THINK it was because Michales can apparently do no wrong (despite having his own share of boring matches, such as Wrestlemania 12 and his matches with Triple H at Armageddon 2002, Royal Rumble 2004, and Bad Blood 2004) Kane got some good offense and was made to look more stronger, Michales wins with a super-kick.

6. Tajiri and Rhyno vs La Resistance: **1/2, a nothing match that does'nt know WHEN to begin or how to continue to reach the match ending, La Resitance win after using one of their flags for a weapon.

7. Tripe H vs Randy Orton: ***1/2, the interference made it a RAW match and not something you would reserve for a PPV, Orton was great here, but his short title reign might have been because the next RAW PPV is Taboo Tuesday and will give fans the oppertunity to vote for the next challenger for the World Championship.

Unforgiven was good, not as great as Backlash or Bad Blood, but better than Vengeance