Not enough can be said about these icons of stage and screen! Too often these days are the Marx Brothers overlooked as one of THE main influences  of modern comedy. They set comedy standards, copied and used by everyone  during their time, as well as today, in every effort made during their long  careers. 
From Groucho's lightening-fast, razor-sharp wit (often adlibbed  during the actual filming of their movies. If you don't believe me, just  watch the reactions from the other actors and extras on the set...Watch  Margaret Dumont reactions!)...To Chico's perfect  Italian-immigrant-straight-man delivery, his twisting and turning of  phrases, and his talents at the keyboard... To Harpo's impeccably executed  sight-gag and mime (not to mention his incredible prowess, and superb  execution on the harp!)...To Zeppo as the  "pretty-boy-love-interest" straight man... The "bros"  are fun to watch, to say the least! I'm told that working on a Marx  Brothers project was a trip, because no one knew what the 4 brothers were  going to pull next! I believe it! You can see it in any one of their  films!
This film is a joy for all of the aforementioned reasons! Groucho,  Harpo, Chico, and Zeppo pull out all of the stops in this, one of their  very best films. "DUCK SOUP," a pointed political satire, is pure  comic genius, and one of the Marx Brothers' funniest, and most insane  efforts, containing many of the Brothers' famous sequences: the lemonade  stand scene (a masterpiece of "slow burn."); the Paul Revere parody; the  "We're Going To War" number (a beautifully staged spoof of 30s musicals);  the incredibly funny mirror bit, where you get to see just how much the  Brothers look alike; and a final battle scene that has since been copied  many times, by everyone. "DUCK SOUP" is also an antiestablishment comedy,  which failed miserably at the box office at the time of its release in  1933. Today, however, this Leo McCarey-directed romp has achieved its  proper reputation as the quintessential Marx Brothers classic! If you've  never seen a Marx Brothers film, and you want to giggle and laugh your  posterior off...do yourself a favor... SEE THIS ONE! 
Thanks, Michael J.  Carlucci  (Rochester, MN)