The 1995 movie "Heat" made Michael Mann's movie career, and ever since then he has made movies similar to "Heat" in that the two leading characters manage to be both doppelgangers of each other while being a study in contrasts.  That could be said about "Heat" (1995), "The Insider" (1999), "Collateral" (2004), "Miami Vice" (2006), and now "Public Enemies" (the only exception to this rule is "Ali" (2001), which is also Michael Mann's best film since "Heat").

In "Public Enemies," Johnny Depp stars as John Dillinger and Christian Bale as Melvin Purvis, the FBI man tasked with hunting down public enemy number one.  There's a lot of moral ambiguity that makes "Heat" interesting, but "Public Enemies" is very heavy-handed.  Michael Mann asserts that John Dillinger represented American freedom, the lone hero who fights for love, friends, and honor in dark despicable times.  And in the end he's crushed by the social forces arrayed against him:  the dangerously ambitious J. Edgar Hoover who wants to use Dillinger's death to catapult himself into national fame and power, and the darkly powerful Syndicate who, in having reached a compromise with law enforcement to engage in sinisterly quiet racketeering, need to eliminate Dillinger because he is anything but sinisterly quiet.  With his friends all dead and his lover in jail, John Dillinger only hopes for a loud and fast death.

The story is of course Hollywood, and having Johnny Depp star in the lead role assures a sympathetic rendering of the John Dillinger legend.  The real problems are the thinness of the script, the banality of the characters, and the entire pointlessness of the endeavor.  "Heat" was its own internal world, and that world was vast, striking, and knowable; "Public Enemies" involves both an era and a nation and so promises to offer a much larger world, but instead it comes across as small-minded and confined.  Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro made an interesting study in contrasts, and their dueling personalities made the movie dynamic and alive.  In "Public Enemies," neither the characters of Johnny Depp and Christian Bale is developed so as to offer the audience an understanding of their personalities and worldview, and thus their duel really doesn't seem to have any purpose except to drive the plot along.

"Public Enemies" is a pointless waste of time.