Dracula 3 Legacy starts where the previous film ends and fast fowards 5 years. At that time we pick up in Romania with Luke and Father Uffizi, the two survivors of the previous film who didn't become a vampire.  The other survivor of the 2nd film in this Dracula series was Elizabeth who, in the end, became a Vampire and saved Dracula from the clutches of Father Uffizi.

But back to the 3rd film.  We pick up in Romania with Luke and father Uffizi tracking down Dracula and Elizabeth.  Only on their way they find many people who stand in their way.  In the end they catch up to Dracula and Elizabeth and destory both. Only for Father Uffizi to succum to his vampiric blood.

The Positive:  The movie focused more on Luke and Father Uffizi's journey to find Dracula and Elizabeth.  We see Father's Uffizi's battle with himself and his character development is central to the plotline.

The Negatives:  The movie focuses too much on Luke and Father Uffizi.  Failing epically to develop the characters of Dracula and Elizabeth.  They don't even show up in the movie until the last 20 minutes.  At the end of Dracula II: Ascention it lead the audience to believe that there would be more character development of both characters.  Elizabeth was key character in which the director and producers could of developed immensely.

The focus was taken off of Dracula and Elizabeth, who should of been the main characters in the movie.  The passion and love interest between the two could of helped create a sense of "unholy" dread and passion within the movie.  Elizabeth becoming a vampire and choosing Dracula would of created a better dynamic for the "heros" in the story to have to fight.  All of this could of made for a much more terrifying movie.

As most people know a movie, especially a horror movie, the strength, ingenuity, intelligence, and the power of the bad guy makes or breaks the movie. In the end Both Dracula and Elizabeth were weak characters who could hold up to the standard of tough baddies for the good guys.  The final battle was short and lacked any real substance or fear.  Elizabeth's character could have been used as more of a stronger character working towards some "evil" that was a moral decision on her part.

Overall, I was disapointed.  Only reason why I gave the movie a two star was that Father Uffizi was a strong character.