There can be too many "boo!" moments in a film, I realized as I watched "The Woman In Black." A "boo!" moment, of course, is when the camera pans across a room and, just for a second, we see a demon watching our hero (in this case, Daniel Radcliffe), or, the camera lingers upon an object (a window, say) while our hero looks outside, and then...a face appears in the window next to him! Noooo!

Save for these moments (and there are a lot of them), "The Woman In Black" is a quiet, effective ghost story set in Victorian England. A woman with a secret past dies, and leaves a mansion behind that must have been built by architects related to H. R. Giger. Needless to say, the mansion is haunted, and poor Daniel Radcliffe, besot by financial problems, must try his darndest to sell it so that he can make a life for his son, even as the local villagers give him the evil eye for daring to step foot in the mansion. Why one of these villagers never simply runs up to him and says, "There's a crazy ghost-witch in that house and she does awful things to people when you go into her house!" I'll never know, but instead they hang back and scowl at Radcliffe's character as he just tries to go about his day.

If it all sounds rather generic, well, it is. But the movie, crafted by a reboot of the old Hammer Films Studio, is technically well-done and written competently enough to create a decent experience out of an overdone genre. There are too many "boo!" moments, yes, but the overall mood of the film is rather somber and creepy. The set design is great, and the clattering little tinker toys that fill up the mansion shelves are among the most horrid toys I've ever seen in my life. The plot moves smoothly and never gets bogged down in unnecessary exposition or bloated pretension. The movie knows what it wants to be. It is a haunted house movie, through and through, and while that lack of ambition makes it somewhat mundane, it also ensures that the movie never overstays its welcome. There's a horrible mansion, a cruel ghost, and an awful secret, and that is as far as the narrative extends. Radcliffe is likable, the ghost is appropriately furious, and the ending, while obvious, doesn't cheat.

All in all, a competent piece of genre fiction that will entertain you and then quickly fade from your memory. You could do much worse.