Roger Kumble had a good idea.  Before it came out, I often wished for a prequel to the original CI.  Unfortunately, this film doesn't do justice to the original, which is disappointing because it could have been extremely good. The characters include Kathryn and Sebastian, as well as two "new" characters who seem to be patterned after Annette and Cecile.  Danielle, the "Annette" character starts out all right, but as the film goes on, she becomes too earnest and innocent to be believed.  Sherry, the "Cecile" character is even more clueless than Cecile (if that's possible) but she lacks the amusing charm of Cecile.  She comes across as annoying.  As for Sebastian and Kathryn, they act extremely out of character from the originals.  The characters' dialogue wants to be as sharp and witty as the original, but fails in many ways.  Unfortunately, the director/writer tried to fix that by paraphrasing several of the lines from the original and even inserting a few verbatim ("This doesn't *taste* like iced tea."  "It's from Long Island.") ("You could be a model.  It's too bad you aren't sexy."  "I could be sexy!"  "All right, show me sexy.").  They even tried to recreate the infamous kissing scene, only it involved Court (who's mentioned in the original but never seen) and Sherry with Kathryn doing the coaching.  Kathryn and Sebastian have virtually no chemistry in this film.  Also, one who is familiar with the original may have a hard time believing that Sebastian wasn't wealthy before coming to live with his father and step-mother.  There are a few amusing points in the film, including Sebastian's first dinner "alone" and a poker game involving the servants, but otherwise the movie just doesn't stand up to the first one.  Overall, this movie is moderately effective as a lead-in to the first one.  I wouldn't recommend purchasing it, but fans of the original CI may want to rent it out of curiosity.  If you've never watched the first Cruel Intentions (starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon), then I highly recommend watching it *before* this one.