I'm baffled by all the hoopla surrounding this movie. For years I'd heard it rapturously described as some kind of "life-affirming" cinematic masterpiece and, boy, was I misled!

Anthony Quinn, with his all-purpose ethnicity, does his usual schtick, playing a coarse, lusty peasant (Greek, in this case). Alan Bates plays a cowardly, effete British intellectual who must be taught how to "live" by the "earthy" Zorba. How original. Threadbare plot and tiresome stereotypes abound in this movie. The story is sluggishly paced and rather tedious, without a single line of fresh, original dialogue.

But far worse is the utter moral callousness of the movie. With the partial exception of Zorba, the Greek peasants are vicious, grasping, stupid creatures who sadistically delight in tormenting everyone. And worst of all is the astoundingly brutal misogyny displayed throughout. Because a young, wealthy, attractive widow turns down a lovesick local suitor who subsequently commits suicide, the villagers chase her down like an animal, stone her into a semi-unconscious state, and then finish her off by slitting her throat--while the "life-affirming" Zorba makes only a feeble effort to protect her and the cowardly intellectual Bates character (who is supposed to be in love with the murdered widow) just stands around and does nothing. Do these two "heroes" even attempt to notify the police about this atrocity? No, they just shrug it off--as does the movie itself, which seems to consider this shocking crime nothing more than a colorful little folk custom. Gee, how quaint to be able to butcher an innocent woman and get away with it! Gosh, I wish I lived in such a "life-affirming" culture. In another scene, a foreign woman, who had been Zorba's lover for many years, lies on her deathbed in her bedroom as dozens of shrieking old peasant women ransack her house and nastily taunt the dying wretch. (After her death, her body is left to rot in her room because she wasn't Greek and didn't belong to the Greek Orthodox Church and thus doesn't deserve even the decency of a burial.)

Now, if the movie had presented these despicable attitudes and atrocious behaviors in order to condemn them, that would be one thing. But Zorba himself, the one person we're supposed to identify with, the man being celebrated in this movie, comes off as mostly indifferent to the suffering of others and sometimes as slightly sadistic. "I spit on their suffering!" he growls angrily at one point. Our hero also mocks his sleeping lover as a "dirty b*tch". Nice. And after the murder of the young widow, he stupidly wonders, "Why do the young die?", as if she had passed away mysteriously from natural causes instead of being butchered by a howling mob. (Not too bright, that Zorba.) And when our hero isn't spitting on the suffering of others and deriding his lovers, he's busy cheating people and getting drunk on ouzo and retsina. Oh, what a delightful scamp you are, Zorba!

Yet all of this appalling, dreary, loathsome behavior is presented to us as something zestfully "life affirming" and quaintly charming! Oh, the joyful vitality of earthy peasant life! Actually, this movie is the best argument I've ever encountered for the blessings of modernity and cosmopolitanism.