Because if you're under 30 and NOT an old movie buff nor WoodyAllen fan, then you will probably come to the same conclusion that my friends and I came to after sitting through "Annie Hall" - it's very much like having your teeth drilled without anesthetic while your dentist makes slightly humorous jokes during the process.
With all the praise this movie has had heaped all over it, we (my friends and I) decided to NOT get our hopes up and to do our best to watch it objectively (we do this every time we watch a "classic" movie to remove expectations - it makes it MUCH more enjoyable to open the mind and watch it "cold").  In retrospect, I guess it would have been better to keep reminding ourselves, over and over again, just how "important" this flacid piece of crap is supposed to be.
I guess it was groudbreaking at the time (no one thought to make a self-indulgent, 2-hour-plus film about uninteresting people droning ceaselessly about their uninteresting problems, uninteresting relationships, and uninteresting lives before? . . . . go figure!), but Allen's CONSTANT whining is absolutely torturous, as is Keaten's disjointed, schizophrenic protrayal of her character (seriously, we all - boys and girls included - wanted to slap her EVEN MORE than we did Woody!).  We eventually decided that BOTH characters tie Jar-Jar Binks for "Most Annoying Screen Persona in History"!  We literally had to FORCE ourselves to finish this movie, just so we could all say that we saw it.
This movie may be "important", but sitting through it is a horrifyingly boring and nerve-grating experience.  Are we supposed to care for these saps?  We didn't just "not empathize" with Woody or Keaton's characters, we ACTUALLY HATED both of them - God, they're both just so insipid and redundant!  The only redeeming quality in either character is that Diane leaves Woody (finally!) and is thankfully absent from much of the later part of the film.
"Citizen Kane"?  Mesmerizing! "Chinatown"?  Shocking!  "Dr.  Stragelove"? Hilarious!  "The Searchers"?  Engaging and touching! "Annie Hall"?  yawn-PUKE!  Sure, "Annie Hall" may be "important", but so is "Beowulf"!  Why would anyone EVER recommend this movie to someone who isn't an enemy?
I give it one star because there are SOME lines intended to be funny that actually approach their goal.  I think during the 2.5 hours of torture that is "Annie Hall", our group chuckled a few times (note that a chuckle and a laugh are completely different things!), so it's not COMPLETELY unfunny - just 98% so!
YES, we "got" ALL the jokes.  Don't think for a second that Woody's sense of humor isn't accessible, because "getting it" is PAINFULLY easy. Appreciating it, however, must be a torture test required to be initiated into some snotty film club or something.  I think that, even more than the annoying characters, their fingernails-on-chalkboard dialogue, or "Annie Hall"'s marathon length, what I recall most is thinking, "THAT was a joke? " while my stomach churned and churned.
You want good Woody Allen?  Get "Take the Money and Run" or "Hannah and Her Sisters" END