This is one of the worse movies I have seen in a long time. It was just a sad, nasty mess. Now, I admit, I am not a big fan of Will Ferrell but I do really like Mark Wahlberg. They both have nothing to do in this movie. Will Ferrell plays Allen Gamble as a big, blank, clueless fool. He is totally out of place in the precinct and is the repeated butt of mean-spirited jokes and insults from nearly everyone around him. There is a looong running joke throughout the movie about how every beautiful woman who crosses Gamble's path immediately falls for him while he is completely unaware but this joke gets old way fast. Mark Wahlberg plays Terry Hoitz as an angry hot head who accidentally shot a baseball star just before a big game and is now stuck with Gamble as a partner. There is a looong running joke with Hoitz, too, where he continually lusts after Gamble's beautiful, talented wife. The scene where Hoitz is leaving the Gamble home and mooning after the wife and repeatedly calling out to her while totally ignoring Gamble who repeatedly, desperately yells goodbye to him, made the Hoitz character just look like a self-centered, sad little jerk and the Gamble character look just plain sad.

The comedy was not funny, the action scenes were boring, the characters were all jerks or idiots or both. Basically I just stuck with this movie to the bitter end because I was determined to finish it. But I also read the newspaper, made a grocery list, and petted the cat, all of which were much more interesting then the movie.

Now, to be fair, I admit I did laugh. Exactly twice.

*Possible Spoilers*

The 1st laugh was in the early part of the movie when the super macho hero cops played by Samuel L. Jackson and Dwayne Johnson (I love `em both) are pursuing some bad guys who manage to escape by zip lining off a building. The hero cops take a second or two to discuss the escaping baddies. Then one of them yells "Are you thinking what I'm thinking?" and the other agrees "Aim for the bushes!" And they jump off the building after the baddies. And they go down.... down.... down.... down.... splat! It was a 20 story building. I admit, I love action adventure movies but there have been many times I wished Arnold or Sly or Bruce or some other guy ended up exactly as these two did.

The 2nd laugh came late in the movie, when The Other Guys' rival cops are in a hot car chase after other baddies. The rivals had been at a school showing off and passing around their guns (Bad! Bad! No excuse for this kind of stupid scene) when they get the call and they take a little school girl for a ride along. I admit I laughed when the rivals are speeding along and make a sharp turn and the little girl in the back seat goes "Eeee!" as she slides along the seat and thuds into the side. Then another sharp turn and another "Eeee!" Thud.

Overall, miss this movie if you can. After seeing it, my opinion of Mark Wahlberg went way down and I will probably never bother with another Will Ferrell movie again.

I rented this movie but did not buy it (Thank goodness).