While I am a fan of both the Twilight books and movies, I would easily admit that they cut a pretty wide swath of things about which they can be mocked.  This parody turns up a fairly equal showing of hits and misses.  Jenn Proske's portrayal of Becca (Bella's doppelganger) is so full of Kristen Stewart's facial tics, hair tugs, vacant stares, and stutters, you almost wonder if she tried out for the original role of Bella (and she might have been able to do a better job at that).  Matt Lanter's Edward Sullen is so physically similar to Robert Pattinson's Edward Cullen in the first movie he could be his stunt double, and he plays a particularly mopey version of Edward well.  Chris Riggi (Jacob White) plays Jacob jokes that are obvious and not so obvious.  Obvious: he's contractually obligated to take off his shirt every ten minutes and has a visible tail even in human form; not so obvious: he gets distracted and runs after cats at key points in conversations, and his "wolf" form is a chihuahua.  The movie is a fast combo of the plots of the first two Twilight movies, so if you haven't seen the Twilight movies, I doubt you will enjoy this.  The comedy is a bizarre mix of ironic, subtle, predictable, and crass.  I laughed out loud when Becca catches Edward in her bedroom in plaid flannel jammies, his uber-exaggerated James Dean coif rolled up in pink curlers, and wrestling with a tooth-whitening strip, but there is enough potty humor throughout to make you groan.  I appreciated the gentle elbow nudge given to the noticeable increase in the amount of makeup Bella/Becca started wearing from the transition from the first movie into the second movie.  However, I wish the writers had shot for more irony and less cheap generic shots ("Would you care for finger food?"), as the Twilight franchise leaves plenty of room for tongue-in-cheek mockery.  If you're a fan of Twilight, can take a joke and aren't offended by college-boy humor, give this a shot - you probably won't wish for the 90 minutes back.  Don't expect irony on the level of The Princess Bride, though - you'll be disappointed.  If you're unsure, wait until it's available to rent.