The wonderful thing about *tigers*
*Tigers* are wonderful things
They feel like they're made out of rubber
They feel like they're made out of springs
They're bouncy, bouncy, bouncy, bouncy,
Fun, fun, fun, fun, fun
But the most wonderful thing about *tigers*...
There are two, instead of one...
Two instead of one.

But this movie isn't about *boobies*. If you want boobies, go see a Russ Meyer film. This movie is a story about smart tigers and stupid people. This is NOT a documentary, nor a cartoon, nor a serious film making bold claims about the plot and asking self-proclaimed braniacs with nothing better to do to pick it apart, like some other reviewers seem to think it should be.

I'm not going to repeat the stuff other reviewers have already amply covered.  I'm just going to give my own take on this wonderful film and my frustration over some of the reviews for the film that other people have offered here.  Minor spoilers ahead...

The part of the movie I found most disturbing about people and most refreshing about tigers was the scene where the two grown cats were placed in an arena to fight each other, but recognized each other instead and started playing.  The arena audience was clearly loving every moment the cats were playing too.  But the idiots running the show started throwing rocks at the tigers like that was supposed to get them to fight?  Like anyone even WANTED them to fight anymore?  Ugh.  I guess back then, entertainers didn't know the concept of "giving the audience what they wanted".  Personally, I'd give this movie three stars if all it was was two beautifully edited hours of the cubs and adult tigers playing.  Of course if they were just allowed to play, we wouldn't get to see the circus owner getting his just desserts - having his arm chewed by a protective Sangha.

Yes, the movie was frustrating at times... but some short-sighted reviewers don't understand that the frustrating parts are designed to make the satisfying parts even more so.  Yes, some parts were violent.... but that's life.  Yes, the humans were portrayed as being abnormally stupid and cruel, but then people are pretty stupid and cruel to begin with... I mean just read some of these "one star" reviews!

I think one star reviews should be reserved for movies that have nothing of value to offer anyone. Two Brothers is a valuable experience for anyone watching.  Unlike a typical Disney flick, it paints a real picture of how things are and were.  Gritty reality isn't something people should complain about. And people shouldn't give a movie a bad review just because their kid has ADD or because they've chosen to shelter their kids from reality... If you've raised your kid to expect a perfect world, where the hamburger in their kids meals come from a magical cow that produces them without pain or loss of life, you might want to steer clear of the movie... or better yet, let them experience this film and start telling them the truth - whether it upsets them or not.  Movies are SUPPOSED to garner emotion from an audience... and it's a rare thing to hear the movie audience gasp as something bad happens, cheer when something good happens, and jeer at the bad guys in unison.  It's a sign that the movie makers have done thier jobs well.

Two Brothers goal is to get you close, VERY CLOSE, to tigers... showing them cute as cubs and beautiful as adults.  To get people to understand the plight that these magnificent beasts had to endure from the animals point of view.  Everyone behind the film should be applauded for a job well done.  And any viewer who can't appreciate the ability of the director, cast and crew to bring emotion and intelligence to these animals in a way that even toddlers can understand, might as well be blind.