I was quite surprised after seeing "Far From Heaven", and then reading some of the tepid-to-terrible audience reviews on this web page.
I only went to see this film based on my experience with another Todd Haynes film, the powerful "Safe". My trip to see "Heaven" was strictly a time-out diversion from the holiday season, and I only expected it to be reasonably enjoyable. I ended up being totally blown away, have seen it twice since, and everyone I've sent to see it (mostly acting and theatre devotees) has had a similar reaction.
It IS a peculiar film, in that the genre is so much like stepping through a time warp back into the 1950's. The look, the style of acting, the photography, EVERYTHING seems meticulously like a movie actually made in the mid-fiftes. However, underneath all the Technicolor glitz are tortured dilemmas that past film-makers could only hint at. In fact, that seems to be a fascinating theme throughout Haynes' films, beginning with a college film about singer Karen Carpenter told through (of all things!) Barbie dolls. The writer-director bores through a seemingly perfect surface appearence to reveal the pain and emotion never glimpsed by the outside world.
Haynes, as he did in "Safe", once again makes masterful use of quite possibly the best actress of our generation. As protagonist Cathy, Julianne Moore does more with a tiny bit of energy and concentration than anyone chewing up and spitting out the scenery. No one elicits more empathy from an audience. In "Heaven" she's challenged to walk a tightrope between placidity and melodrama. One teeter in either direction could have sent the movie into a dangerous imbalance, but Moore walks straight down the middle. If "Heaven" doesn't get her an Oscar nomination, something is very, very wrong.
Equally strong (and startling) is Dennis Quaid as Cathy's husband, Frank. His depiction of a bisexual husband is eye-opening, tragic, and tortured.  In fact, the whole picture painted of how homosexuality was viewed in that time period is chilling and scary, and that's coming to you from a gay man. Although I consider him a good actor, this is a performance I would never have expected out of Quaid. Certainly assured a lot of recognition for best supporting actor in 2002.  
See it, buy it, rent it, whatever . . . but see it!