I just got my copy of Performance on DVD from Amazon and I must say I have mixed emotions regarding this release. As a long time fan of this movie (I've seen this film hundreds of time) I can detect subtle changes (i.e. missing scenes, etc.). What I don't understand about this DVD release was why someone at Warner Brothers felt compelled to re-dub certain characters dialogue or remix parts of the sound track.

Now I'll admit I haven't watched this movie for a couple of years, but my ears do not deceive me.  The voices of characters Harry Flowers, Moody and the little girl Lorraine have all dropped an octave, as well as losing some of the nuances of their accents and timing. Some words and phrases have been altered which is also upsetting. In 1970 when this film was released the dialogue of this film felt authentic, raw and real time east-end London. It still does, but it has lost some of its edge.

Even some of the background music has been changed. And trust me I know the sound track too! And for some reason during `Memo from Turner' Jagger's voice completely cuts out when muttering the toast "Here's to Old England." I just hope it doesn't have something to do with his knighthood.

I don't understand why Warner Brothers - who admittedly never like this film would bother to add or alter this movie.  The only reason to buy it would be for the limited special features included in this release. Jesus, even the packaging of the DVD is limited. Their official VHS release (in the 80's) was disappointing and the DVD release is no exception. Because of the alterations, it's an even bigger disappointment. Thank God I have a complete copy of this film in its original state on VHS.

My advise to newcomers to this film - keep in mind your getting an altered classic. It is still a classic in its own right, but it was better before they messed with it. If you are an aficionado like me - keep whatever VHS copies you have and do whatever you must to preserve them. I just hope to live long enough to see the director's cut of this film, or at least - the Criterion Collection release.