Before I saw that opera I knew Roberto Algnia(after I saw him in Guno's Romeo And Guliate). I also knew Jose Van Dam and Karita Matila both of them an exelent singers. Before I saw this opera I onley knew the plot and some  very apetizing Arias and the duet whith carlo and rodrigo. I Saw the opera  and I was impres with the music and  team.The music was verdi in his best  and we can see hear some of the origins of the latest operas, and some of  the elments from his privies oparas. The acting did not intrupt the Music  and the music did not interupt the acting. It was a perfect team wark.  Roberto algnia and Thomas Hampson behave like 2 old freing that Actualy  have been alot to gether. (I belive its impossible becouse Hampson started  his career in the first 80's and algnia in the 90's). Karita matila arias  shed a tear from my eys. I loved to hate Jose van Dam and Eric halvarson  that played the people who against the  freedom. Waltrud mayer played eboly  as hot as she  should be. First a spoil nousy girl then a real beach and a  mture repantend person. Alangia was touching in every part of the show that  his made. Hampson as posa I believe had a very dificult part. Posa does  alot of things that are not to be expected, and you can not realy  understand them, unless you read the play. It was the first time I saw him  and I practicly fell in love (in his singing). He show us every filling  roudrigue have. He was the music and the character. He made him firm,  compationed and brave and agressive at very wise and un wise, and show how  mutch rodrigue is human been. He show us a perfect body languege, a very  good tectique, a very colorfull voice and above all, he made me blieve that  he actualy fill the fear, the pain that the character feld . It seems to me  as if for him it was a reality. The team work of the casting was exelent. I  saw how they response to eatch other. Jose van Dam in spite of the negative  character touched my heart in the aria "she had never loved me".  I was also impress from the small parts of the opera. count larme  and dona  braown show a very  beatifull voice. Anat Efraty as tiboult was exelent  both in the acting and singing. Carlos Greand father was a very good bass  and Eric Halvarson practicly freeze my blood. In short I recomend this  video in all my heart. It was a very good harmony between singers, acting  and music.