My husband and I took our then 2-year-old son to see "The Family Man" in the theater when it first premiered in 2000. We loved it then. We love it now. In fact, this film has been added to our collection of Christmas films that we watch every year, along with "Love Actually," "Die Hard," "The Holiday," "Trading Places," "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation," "A Christmas Carol," "Home Alone," "The Stepmom," and "Little Women." (The list is growing).

Of course "It's a Wonderful Life" was a touchstone for this film. And, like its predecessor, this film is sure to grow in popularity over the years. Nearly every frame in this film is a gift. Nicholas Cage and T&eacute;o Leoni are at their best. The child actors are adorable. Yes, it is a feel-good movie. So what? Isn't that why we watch movies like this, especially around the holidays? Part of the joy of watching a film is the suspension of belief. The giving over of ourselves to enjoying a certain experience.

Those of us who are married and are parents can relate to many of the themes in this movie. I could be wrong, but I think a lot of the naysayers here are folks who don't have families, are not married, and regularly eschew the family lifestyle, especially if it involves the suburbs. Oddly enough, many critics of the suburbs are themselves the products of the suburbs, and seem to have knee-jerk reactions to anything that even slightly appears to show a positive side to life away from the city. They seem to be projecting a lot of their own insecurities and unhappiness onto this film. In fact, I think bashing the suburbs has become an American clich&eacute;, too. It's a sign of unoriginality to dismiss the lives of millions of Americans who are raising their families in diverse places that have nothing to do with city centers. It's a clich&eacute; to assume that anyone who lives in a suburb has never lived anywhere else or experienced any other culture or way of life.

If you can let go and enjoy a feel-good film without over-thinking it; if you are a big Nicholas Cage fan; if you want a good film for the holidays; and if you are intrigued by the idea of seeing an updated version of "It's a Wonderful Life," this film is for you.