The movie starts out with a young man named Milo, who is convinced that the ancient city of Atlantis actually exists. He tries to use ancient documents and legends to make his case that a museum in Washington DC (presumably the Smithsonian) should fund a project to help Milo find Atlantis. Unfortunately for Milo, the commission won't even listen to his case.
As it turns out, Milo is the grandson of an explorer who also tried to reach Atlantis, but failed. He (Milo) ends up meeting a man who agrees to fund Milo's project and even provide submarines, equipment, and a motley crew of rather amusing characters to help Milo in his mission.
Most of what I've mentioned so far occurs probably in the first 15 minutes of the movie. From there, the movie gradually becomes more and more incomprehensible. The pace of plot development moves even quicker and the viewer is left with little to no background of what is going on.
Add on to all of this a very weak love story between Milo and the princess, some really powerful crystals, and an illiterate city of people who happen to be able to speak every language (figure that one out!), and you have this Disney film called Atlantis.
Having said all that, there are some folks to whom I would definitely recommend this movie. If you're looking for a good time with a bunch of friends, this is a good movie to see with a bunch of your friends. The jokes and plot holes throughout the movie make it very entertaining, and a worthwhile ice breaker. I would also recommend this movie to anyone who follows Disney movies. If you do follow Disney movies, you may recognize some of the background schemes recycled from previous movies. For example, one friend of mine thought that the beginning of the movie was from straight out of 101 Dalmations. Of course, I've never seen 101 Dalmations, so I wouldn't know. I'll let you decide whether she was right :)
I would not recommend this movie to anyone who goes to the theater alone or on a date (unless of course if your date happens to be a Disney fan). Certainly, I also wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for a good quality movie.