I became a PG fan with "So", worked my way back to his earlier releases, and have patiently anticipated every release since then, through "Up" and "Us". PG is definitely adopting the video market this round, but I'm really disappointed with this offering.

Disc 1 contains tracks shot of various locales, although for the most part you can't figure out where the venues are located.  Unfortunately, there's no intro or transition for each venue/track, and the DVD's liner notes do not contain any information as to the locations...although they are mentioned, you can't figure out where each one was shot.  There's really nothing new here, most of the tracks were included in the original "Growing Up Live" DVD, and since Peter is a stickler for perfection, the tracks don't change all that much.  Although there's less theatrics, the musical performances are just about the same.

The second DVD really doesn't have a purpose.  It's the same footage, supplemented with some additional dialogue...very sparse...with images of the concert projected either on Peter's face or on cardboard screens he holds and moves around his person.  Really nothing interesting comes out of it, and after watching half of it, I would just hit "forward search" on my remote until subtitles appeared on the screen, which indicated that Peter or somebody else was speaking.

There's some bonus footage.  I enjoyed watching the studio footage of the band practicing for the 2002 tour, but it too gets stale fast.

This is not an essential PG piece, and I consider myself a die-hard fan.  I probably would have preferred commentary on Disc 1, with some insight to what each of the bandmembers thought about each performance, venue, etc.

The concert footage contains really nothing new (except "White Ashes"), the second disc is a replay of disc 1 (and if you got nothing out of watching disc 1 the first time, well...you get my point!), and the added dialogue on disc 2 just wasn't worth the time.  If you have "Growing Up Live" on DVD, you won't need this.