I'd heard about this film but like it's been noted it got lost in the shuffle and also never was released on VHS .It's an okay to good film hurt by a amateur feel to it and some weak writing .The premise is simple enough angry,disillusioned teenager Corinne "3rd Degree" Burns has become a cause celeb on the local tv circuit.Her mother just died leaving Corrine and her sister living with an Aunt who could care less about them. They live in a small nowhere town where nobody looks to have a bright future. This is not uncommon in films dealing with teenagers I could rattle off a list off the top of my head. Corrine wants to be somebody( don't we all?) and has started a band called The Stains( there were several real band with that name BTW) with her sister and cousin.Oh I forgot to mention Corrine is played by a young 14/15 year old Diane Lane and her sister is played by Marin Kanter and her cousin by Laura Dern. In an  only in a movie way the girls attend a local gig headlined by the washed up rock band Metal Corpses led by Tubes singer Fee Waybill.The opening act is the Looters featuring Steve Jones and Paul Cook of the Sex Pistols and Paul Simonon of the Clash. The singer is Ray Winstone channeling Johnny Rotten much like Shane West did Darby Crash in the film What we Do Is Secret. One of the Metal corpses actually becomes a corpse(OD) and they are off the tour. Tour Manager Lawn Boy needing another act quick selects the unproven Stains much to the chagrin of Ray and the other Looters. Since this is a movie not reality the Stains with no drummer and only 3 practices under their belts become a hit.Corrine coins the catch phrase "We Don't Put Out" which other young girls and a local tv personality take a liking to. Lawn Boy is kind of a Rasta Morgan Freeman i.e the stereotypical wise black man surrounded by crazy white people.Lawn Boy and to an extent Ray predict that the Stains will become big but that they are just a gimmick that will soon be forgotten. Ray tries mentoring young Corrine after initially hating the idea of having the Stains tour with them. They have a quick fling which is controversial in that Lane was well under 18 and Winstone was not and the idea of a older man having sex in the shower with a jail bait girl is kind of edgy or creepy.To further her career Corrine stabs Ray in the back stealing the Looters best song and changing it to a Stains song.In a footnote here the song The Professionals was written by Steve Jones and he and Paul Cook were in a band of the same name together after the Sex Pistols decline. Anyhow like predicted the Stains burn out quick and Corrine is left on the outs getting booted from her own band. The Stains go on without her. I assume the Looters lasted awhile as well and Corrine is left to fend for herself at the end. I guess this film isn't a million miles away from Times Square another film of the era (early 80's) about a punk rock girl who's in a band and wants to be somebody. That film while flawed and lacking punk cred is a much better film as far as acting,music and directing goes. Still as an essay on the folly of teenage rebellion and angst.the ability to become a star on a gimmick as opposed to having talent,over staying your welcome and the can do/do it yourself mindset of the punk rock movement The Fabulous Stains scores there.If you like punk rock and want to see a young star in the making (and Winstone is good too) then Ladies & Gentlemen I present to you The Stains.