Many of us grew up on these Hollywood 'epics' of ancient history.  We remember them fondly.  "The 300 Spartans" is one such film.  Our memories, however, can play tricks on us.  Then we see them again as we age, and our opinions change.  We have to remember the times in which they were made and the type of audience that eagerly went to see them.
As a widescreen epic (and you have to see it in the 2:35x1 aspect ratio which the DVD presents), it stills holds some strange fascination.
Sir Ralph Richardson is the one stand-out performance; somehow, British actors seem to be able to deliver stilted dialog in such a way that it seems somehow classical.  Richard Egan was also a good actor.  As the Spartan king, his performance is consistant and even believable.  He is rugged-looking and seems to understand what his character is all about.  He brings the character on the page to some sembelence of life.
The rest of the cast make their characters seem cut from a comic book, or a very bad high-school production.  This is especially true of David Farrar as the Persian King, who tears up the screen without once delving beneath the skin to give his role any dimension.  These are supposedly professional actors, able to rise above a bad script.  Unfortunately, the director accepted only fair performances and let it go at that.
Barry Coe and Diane Baker have the unfortunate roles of the young lovers.  They were both young contract players at Fox and neither convinced anyone that they were either Spartans or that they were ever actually in love. Mr. Coe has one unfornutate line: "Have you heard anything about the Persians?"  He delivers this like a football player asking his coach about the opposing team.
The script does present the story's history with fair accuracy.  Once the Spartans get on the march, the pace picks up nicely, and the battle scenes are well staged.  As usually happened with these epics, the production values of the behind-the-camera talent clearly outshone those being photographed.