I had read the book description and the blurb on the DVD package. As a result I was not at all prepared for the actual point of this film. Rather than a family caught up in a little girl's desire to pursue her talent for spelling efficiently, this film confronts individual quests to find the Divine. I must admit that because of the misleading information I had read, I was WAAAAYYYY OFF base for most of the film and couldn't figure out what was going on. That taught me a personal lesson about expectations and preconceptions based on other people's opinions or analysis - a good lesson in itself. For that reason and finally "getting it" (the REAL story) toward the end I will rent the film again. The story follows the dynamics of a family with some rather significant issues that are not at all clearly explained. The point of the film, however, is about our search for God, the Divine, Love, and meaning - which one could say are all related at least if not the same thing. This is a rich film with deep questions inspiring me to come up with a number of my own. It begs thinking - so from that standpoint will probably not be "entertaining" if you are desiring something lighter or more superficial. It stimulates me to look at my own Spiritual search/process and ponder. It also invites us the viewers to expand our boundaries.

  As a film, I do believe it could have been done with much more clarity. It was a poor representation of the National Spelling Bee to be sure, though I loved the special effects surrounding the way the little girl "connected" with her inner guidence. The basis of the mother's actual dysfunction was very unclear. Why the son decides to expand his own religious boundaries could have been clearer. As for the character of the little girl - I wonder where it was. She seemed to be in a trance most of the time. I never saw a genuine, animated child, much less a little girl suddenly confronting her gifts and their mystical relationship to the Divine. The conclusion left a lot to be desired as well and seemed contrived - but that may have been me not understanding the point of the movie in the first place. While I love the way inwhich the mystical was depicted, I have a charge on how contact with the divine seems to always be portrayed as some thing dangerous and/or threatening. It seems like it ought to be the most natural of connections to me.

  Overall, however, the film is well done, beautifully crafted, well acted, tasteful, and again stimulating for the brain cells.  I recommend it because it does take us to places and questions we rarely go in this culture. It does stimulate thought about Spirituality, religion, the mystical, individuality in all that, and family conditioning. It is a powerful look at family dynamics and how so often we live together without really knowing each other, much less ourselves. Would that there were more films like this, albeit, portrayed with a bit more clarity. Look beyond the obvious, watch "between the lines" - especially beyond the Spelling Bee - question, ponder, and enjoy.

Rev.N.E.Bunce