This film can be clumped with all the other apocalyptic dramas that came as a direct result of millenial anticipation.  This is one of those movies that makes you wonder if Hollywood is cutting back on production costs by hitting up local LA elementary schools for the best writers in the fifth grade classes.  The least they could do is hire kids from a good school system.  
The associations in the film are extraordinarily weak and lack any sort of logical backing, which is actually rather typical of writers who are barely out of the sensorimotor stage.  Hopefully those who wrote this "film" have at least successfully navigated the travails of object permanence.  
One prominent example of this ill logic being that Satan is invulnerable to any eartly implement . . . except for a Arnold and his bazooka. That tidbit of knowledge will come in handy during the actual apocalypse.  The Four Horseman will be helpless.  Oh, and let us not forget the premise: That medieval Catholic priests (in Rome) foretold that Satan would come to earth to impregnate his chosen bride on December 31, 1999 at midnight (Eastern Standard Time mind you)thus signaling the coming of the antichrist.  Now, as anyone over the age of 10 can see, how could a priest in medieval Rome predict that Satan would go to a continent that hadn't been discovered (N. America), to a city that hadn't been founded (New York City), at a time that would translate to 5am Rome time.  The list of script ridiculousness goes on and on.  In short, I haven't seen dog this big since Clifford.  This movie is terrible.  This movie was so bad that even extensive nudity couldn't have salvaged it.  There are not many movies that one can say that about.
As a general rule of thumb, the more Arnold speaks during movies, the worse it is.  Example: Terminator 1 and 2 - Good. Jingle All the Way - Bad.  On a related note, avoid all movies with Sinbad in them as well.
I recommend that you the movie-going public avoid this movie at all costs and if you really want to see a good movie in the "coming of the antichrist" mold, I highly recommend The Devil's Advocate and The Omen.