The graphics and premise were fine. Some will say how unbelievable the story line is, but they are wrong. They are always making assumptions. For example, some complain aliens couldn't have received the signal and got here in the time allotted. However, they don't know if our signal was intercepted by their equipment that is long off planet (like how we have tech that is floating to the outskits of our Solar System, or Mars) and then relayed by a much more advanced tech. They might have tech pretty close to us. Furthermore, those 5 ships could have been send from one of their outposts that are much closer to us. Anyways, just a couple ways to explain what the wannabe's can't comprehend.

Some will complain that the aliens tech was not advanced enough. Well, we are sending tech to Mars and we are having to cross our fingers during the landing. Any race, any where, is going to have tech that is simply as advanced as they've taken it to date. People are just assuming because they are flying to another planet that their tech must be the ultimate of all tech ever imagined.

And some more will complain how "what went down" didn't make sense when seen from the perspective of alien tech. They assume that because the aliens avoided non threatening humans that they must be here for peaceful purposes. However, if you are actually paying attention, you'll see the aliens are the aggressors from (even before) the beginning. Why did they avoid non threatening humans? Well, let's see. If humans were going to a new planet to take as their home, and there was food running around on it, would you kill all the food as soon as you got there?

Just not so. These are usually childish little boys who only see or miss what they expected, and don't give a rats hiney about reality.

Hi Arthur

All in all this movie was just okay. I can't comprehend how a studio can spend so much money then have such failures in their dialog. Of course - this could all be the editor's fault. The dialog could have been better, but this move was not about the dialog. I think the lead was a miscast. That guy is just not a good fit for a (any) lead role.

The redeeming features of the film were seeing the old battleship in action (sure it wouldn't have had live artillery or been able to work, but really, who cares?), seeing a new type of alien and their tech. I'd like to give it 2.5 stars, but I don't regret giving it 3 stars. I'd say for sure RENT not buy. I hadn't seen a new movie in a while and this was not available for rent so I bought it for like $17 (pent of desire to see a new action flick) and I can honestly say I regret that. I wouldn't have regretted it at 9.95, and definitely would not have regretted a rental.