I hadn't ever heard of this show but was running out of the good old 70's shows I love.  I went back and forth...no reviews, never heard of it, no other seasons released...UGH.

I really loved this show from the first episode.  Some of the older shows that I never saw before, it takes a couple episodes before I know if I really want to watch the whole thing but this is one of those I had to purposely stretch out since I knew there weren't anymore episodes available.

The acting is great, the mysteries are good, creepy enough without today's assault of gore. I like today's mystery/crime/dramas but when I watch them from the 60's and 70's, even some from the 80's, I like tat the stories and characters are the focus and strength of the shows more than the blood and guts and violence and "shock factor" of today's shows which seem to sometimes add so much for shock value that there isn't a whole lot of time left for character and story development.  It's not so obvious until you watch a bunch of old mystery/crime/dramas and realize that because of moral differences and/or FCC regulation at the time, they actually had to write a full and complete story with well-developed characters because there were no HD graphics, computer generated scenery, and shock value tactics to fall back on/depend on/write around.

Of course, the clothes, language, hair, makeup, etc are all classic 70's but not campy or cheesy.  I don't mind the campy and cheesy but sometimes it's a bit distracting in some of the old shows.  This one just seemed all about the mystery/crime/relationships of the characters and I loved it.  Also without all the camp/cheese, it reminded me of my early, early childhood and the old photos of my parents in those wonderfully identifiable 70's clothes and hair.

A great show that leads to further frustration in the dvd market when there are no further episodes available and the companies that release older shows seem to have no interest in putting out complete series in any decent amount of time - or ever.  They throw out half a season here, a full season there, and then quit or back-burner it for 3 yrs and then put out a bit more - or something else entirely.

Great shows, well-worth the money and time to watch, would absolutely buy the rest if it was out.

In addition to the primary McMillan and Wife - McMillan's sidekick/driver/detective is freakin' hilarious, dry humor, deadpan facial expressions, really enjoyable.