I was first drawn to purchase the original cartoon version of Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland, after watching  Lewis Carroll's 1865 fantasy novel, "Alice in Wonderland, which featured the stars:  Mia Wasikowska, and Johnny Depp version in 2010.  It was an amazing piece of cinematography, directed by Tim Burton in both digitized computer animation through both IMAX 3D and Disney Digital 3-D, as well as in traditional theaters.
What amazed me while watching the whole re-introduction of this new Alice in Wonderland,  Mia Wasikowska plays the now nineteen-year-old Alice, who 13 years later returns for the first time as a young woman; I could not help but draw parallels to the original Disney presentation, way back in 1951.
In the original Disney film version of 1951, Alice becomes bored and her mind starts to wander. She sees a white rabbit who appears to be in a hurry. She chases it into its burrow and then a most bizarre series of adventures begins.  Kathryn Beaumont plays Alice, and Ed Wynn plays the Mad Hatter.  During the recording sessions, Ed Wynn ad libbed the speech where the Mad Hatter tries to "fix" the White Rabbit's watch. ("Muthtard? Leth not be thilly!") These comical scenes in the first movie made it quite memorable. The comical bits and animation, made an indelible impression on my mind as a child. Such as a fairy tale book come to life - you couldn't help but laugh at the bids, throughout the film.
Also, as a child growing up in the fifties, (yes, I am  baby boomer! ) Walt Disney, was one of the few forms of entertainment, where you could be entertained by real life animation, in full color ( the majority of TV was black and white in those days, before color TV became widely available.) meaning, it was as close to true-to-life cartoon action, you could ever deliver for the technology available in those days.
Part of the special features on disc2 are numerous short featurettes which Walt Disney himself narrated about the production and the storyboards that were carefully crafted and drawn throughout the film.  He shows how Disney studios went through the pain staking process of crafting the movie, in consideration of Lewis Carroll's original artwork in the book, and how Disney put his own personal techniques making the story more colorful and imaginative.  Also, he explained how Alice in Wonderland was one of  the first Disney films that included more musical productions than his earlier works, Snow White and Cinderella, with far most orchestra musical pieces and songs including a theme song, sung by Kathryn Beaumont herself.  It is easy to see how Walt Disney became such a mainstay of the American entertainment industry, it has certainly remained in my imagination all these years into adulthood. This video is definitely a classic and worth the purchase for the children in your life to enjoy.
Thanks, Bilal Hassan