Well, this movie is overall an intense film experience despite a few problems.
The main problem of this film is the plot and story. It's basically non-existant. The film pretty much sets up the origin of the  Joker and he kills people until Batman stops him in the end. No plot  twists, nothing.
Another problem with this film is the lack of Batman  scenes.  Other than the opening sequence, which is done only to introduce  Batman, the only time we see Batman is when he needs to stop the Joker.  This film could be better if they simply showed more time in the batcave,  with either Bruce training or doing detective work. Also, they could have  gone for a little more action in the hand to hand deptartment.
But,  nevertheless, this film continues to be a dark spectacle, largely due to  Burton's vision. He creates a shadowy, gothic world where criminals seem to  be of the most vicius and evil type. Paticularly the Joker character, who  the film focused on despite the title. Nicholson's portarayl of the Joker  is right on target--both frightening and funny at the same time. Keaton's  Batman, despite the obvious physcial problems, was also a very intriguing  character we never got to learn about. His Bruce Wayne dark and tormented,  sitting in the shadows, reflecting on his past. His Batman brutually  intense, as if expressing himself violently was the only release from his  pain.
But what really makes this film for me, is that when they do show  the Batman, he looks dead on. Almost at one with the shadows, dark,  brooding, and mysterious. You almost never see those eyes, they are covered  in shadow the whole time. The black body armor captures the feel of what a  "dark knight" is. Despite an actor who's physical build isn't one  with the character, they gave us a molded body suit which captures Batman's  physical presence better than any muscular actor wearing spandex  could.
The soundtrack is also dead on, perfectly complementing the dark  nature of both Batman and the city. Sensitive and also, triumphant.
The  only thing lacking from the Batman character was the forceful nature of  him. He inists where as this Batman seems to be doing this out of  obligation and is almost hesistant in some cases. Batman does what he does  because he WANTS to. He takes joy in justice.