Rule Number 1:  Don't expect even veiled attempts at realism.
Rule(s) Number 2:  Enjoy the French, martial arts, and don't take yourself too seriously.
Rule Number 3:  If you can't follow the first two rules, then don't go to this movie.  But if you can, then you'll be pleased to find a fun romp though the countryside with enough high caliber fire, head splitting martial action, and curvaceous female attractions to keep you entertained for the duration.
Here's the lay down.  Ex Special Forces operator, Frank (Jason Statham ) is the transporter, a deliver anywhere, anytime, anything kind of guy.  Frank goes about his business with strict rules: no names, no changing the deal, and no opening the merchandise.  He's so good at following the rules that the police know he's involved, somehow, just can't prove it. 
 As the previews share so well, Lai (Shu Qi ) is the merchandise.  Once Frank breaks his own rule, opening the package, he has let the Lai out and calamity follows.  Of course that's what we wanted, and apparently, that's what she wanted too.
The chase scenes aren't measurably close to what the fast car connoisseur will be willing to settle for, that is unless you like seeing ample abuse being given to a BMW.  The stunts don't register, either.  Parachute jumping and bullet dodging have long since been taken to their reasonable ends.
The fight scenes are enough reason, in and for themselves, to go and see this movie.  Nothing new, granted, and you can find yourself getting tired of the narrow corridor scenes until you see interesting uses made of metal doors.  Every decent martial arts movie needs a fight sequence to hang it's belt on, and you'll find one here, and never look at a drum of oil the same again.
Apart from that, don't look for a plot.  I still haven't figured out how the girl ended up in the bag.  The characters do a well enough job of smoothing things over, though.  The street savvy French investigator, Tarconi (played by veteran François Berleand)  pairs up well with the quiet and athletic Frank.  Shu is a stunning surprise.