First off, I do love the film (have the DVD version) but I purchased the BluRay on the hype that it had 2-1/2hrs of additional footage. That's what it says on the front of the box... on the back it says 6 hours of bonus features. Well in reality, the movie is nothing more than a BluRay version of the original. Now you can argue that's all it should be!!.. The BIGGEST mistake was that the Studios missed a golden opportunity.... There are 30 deleted scenes, 30 COMPLETED deleted scenes in that "additional footage". Most of those scenes have actual value to the movie. The ending... OMG... the original filmed ending was way better than the released edited down version. If they had wanted to make a "new" version, well what they should have done is make an "Extended Version" or the "Directors Version" and included all those deleted scenes. I guarantee you'd have made a much more enjoyable and more accurate movie to the original Titanic. You'd have seen where Rose's blanket actually came from that suddenly appears when she and Jack are racing through the sinking vessel, you'd have seen where 3 of the passengers (one pertinent to Jack throughout the voyage before it hits the iceberg) actually died and why they suddenly appear on the Staircase scene at the end as the youthful Rose finally returns to the love of her life, you'd have seen when the radio operators used the then new Morse Code SOS signal, you'd have seen where the Titanic received a message warning them of icebergs but they overlooked the message in the demand to send cables worldwide from passengers, and as mentioned you'd have seen a more detailed ending (no spoiler... watch the deleted scenes if you're interested). Of course this is all my humble opinion. Clearly the story of Rose and Jack was a fantasy love story and brilliantly done but the denial of some of the factual events as well as other scenes important for continuity could have been corrected at long last.

Overall, this is a great movie but sadly disappointed at the studio hype to sell the BluRay version in the original released format. I think mature audiences would have enjoyed a little more than what this repackaging is. Simply put, I just don't think this version is worth it if you already have the DVD version.