Alright, first and foremost lets get the obvious out of the way.  This is a direct rip-off of Paranormal Activity.  They knew this when they made it, and anyone that claims this little fact as a reason for hating the movie should never have watched it in the first place.  Watch this movie because you really enjoyed Paranormal Activity and wouldn't mind watching another inferior version of the same plot to see what they add to it.

I really liked Paranormal Activity.  When I saw a movie called Paranormal Entity on Netflix, I knew I had to watch it and just see how bad it really was.  I won't lie, it isn't the greatest....but surprisingly it wasn't the worst either.  I will use spoilers ahead because I truly feel that you have to break a movie like this down in order to truly review it.

The acting was quite poor.  It was just very amateur.  For a movie like this, the actors need to be "not actors."  In other words, they need to look like real people going through this stuff, and not like actors playing people going through this stuff.  It wasn't terrible through the whole movie, but definitely got worse when things started getting intense.

Pacing was a little too fast in this one.  Things really get going quick.  Some people love that.  I however, prefer to get to know the characters better.

The scares were pretty similar to Paranormal Activity.  Lots of crazy invisible things going on, with loud slamming doors and knocks.  Perhaps the best "new" addition to this movie is the demon's motives.  It wants the sister character in more than one way.  That's a freaky concept.  There is also a scene with an alarm system of sorts involving bells that I thought was a decent idea.

Honestly there is a lot of bad elements to this movie.  I was able to "trick" myself into just not seeing them.  However, for you over thinkers out there I will admit that they really messed some things up.  The characters continue to sleep in separate rooms and just let the sister suffer each night.  They never have other people over to witness the "happenings."  The psychic that is supposed to help, is conveniently on a very long vacation while these people are getting destroyed.  The sister is obviously attractive, and is scantly clad throughout the movie when she is probably scared out of her mind.  Probably most notable of all, the beginning has the mother character calling 911, the end it's the son.

Watch this movie with a grain of salt for lack of a better saying.  You could enjoy it if you can get past it's short-comings, of which there are many.