That this movie stars two of my absolute favorite actors (one of whom has yet to receive the Oscar he deserves) and that it touches on a subject that I have strong feeling about (against the death penalty) would have been enough to get me in the theater to see it.  But what could easily have been a preachy, two-dimensional movie that simply flogged it's message and put sermons in the mouths of the characters instead turned out to be a well-written, well-acted movie that doesn't stray from it's message but also doesn't make cardboard cut-outs of its characters or let them be overwhelmed by the subject matter and message.  This movie had to be as difficult to make as it was to watch.
Some will criticize the movie for not showing more of the victims of the character played by Sean Penn.  Of course, those same people will probably also object to the movie's anti-death penalty message.  The truth is that a movie about the victims could have been made - and could still be - but it would simply have been a different movie than the director, producers and others set out to make.  
What gets glossed over in the criticism is that while this movie never apologizes for it's point of of view, it also never gives short shrift to the other side or attempts to demonize or paint the other side as two dimensional.  That Prejean earnestly reaches out to the families of the victims get's glossed over.  That the movie gives and honest portrayal of the pain and suffering of the victims' families gets glossed over.  That the movie does not downplay Poncelet's crime or guilt, but instead reveals them during the course of the story, gets glossed over.
"Dead Man Walking" takes few, if any, easy ways out.  The character's are all fully human in their portrayal, when it would have been easy to paint any of them as monsters or two-dimensional walking viewpoints. It would have been easy to portray Poncelet as a mere monster, instead of a flawed human being who is guilty of despicable acts, but who feels anger, love, fear and even remorse.  It would have been easy to portray his family as an evil bunch.  It would have been easy to portray the victims' families as bloodthirsty vengance seekers.  Instead, "Dead Man Walking" simply tells a troubling story that involves human beings, and that doesn't necessarily have a tidy ending.
This movie isn't likely to change any minds as far as capital punishment it concerned.  It won't be all the things it should be to all people.  It may simply serve as another means of starting the conversation about the subject, and simply getting people to ask themselves why they believe what they believe in regard to the death penalty.
Regardless, it's just a good movie.