An important thing to note is that this movie is not Awesome Show, nor does it feel at all like Awesome Show.  While watching it, it feels like one of their short films they produced for the hacky internet production/distribution company Funny or Die.  Funny or Die is very good at facilitating unfunny material, and I was surprised they ever got involved with them.

What turned me off is the very depressive aura of the film.  Tim and Eric in the past have been able to deal with, "dark", comedy at times by adding some sweetness to round off the darkness.  For whatever reason they largely abandoned that element of sincere fun and sweetness in season 5 and this movie.  Fun turns up in the very beginning and end of the movie.  At the end with the impromptu celebration and confetti, a total relief after 90 min of depression.  Every character is taken advantage of, betrayed, yelled at, given no redeeming quality, etc..  They just totally abandon their penchant for frequent sweet and funny music, and give the movie hardly any music whatsoever.  They opt for a very gross sounding 70s music.  If they wanted to go full out disturbing and creepy (instead of depressing), I feel they just have made that type of movie and stuck to it.  There are a few seconds as T&E walk into the mall for the first time that shows that Absolutely Prod. knows to make something truly creepy and entertaining.

The movie is pushed in every direction, it falls apart.  It's a narrative, and it's a non-narrative.  It's cheap and gimmicky, an ad for itself by throwing in famous comedians on screen, and it shows an interest in having its own identity.  It waves at it's fans, and then apologizingly tips its hat! at it's detractors (watch the meta reactions of the characters to T&Es antics).  It wants to be original, but then when your not expecting it, desperately throws in a bit from their show that's already been rehashed 20 times on their show.  It tries to be a typical comedy, a straightfoward movie, a mixed up movie, a spoof of drama, and a spoof of comedies.

Original, straightforward material turning up in the movie has a surprisingly Happy Madison, National Lampoon style. Entire scenes dedicated to, "shocking", lowest common denominator jokes.  Jokes are stapled onto the movie.

This is their first time writing, directing, producing etc. a movie. I can't imagine how hard that might be especially with millions of fans watching.  The only good thing about purchasing this movie is that it helps fund their usual comedic brilliance.