The first viewing of this movie was in at a movie cinema packed with a dozen or so kids. I remember wondering how long it would take before they got bored and started running around the place. The kids ranged from 2yrs old to I would say around 15. It was a child's birthday party, the mother had the wonderful idea to rent out the cinema for the day for her child's party. From what I could tell most of the kids in the cinema sat quietly and watched. It was wonderful to watch everyone react to the parts of the movie that they connected to. Even the adults (mostly mothers) gasped and winced as Max bit his mother. Towards the end I would say there was probably not a dry eye from the adults. I would say that most of us that watched it that day would give this movie 4-5 stars. I personally give it 5 stars.

I found the movie to be a remarkable work of art. I got it for my children when it came out on DVD and they love it. Right now it is their favorite movie. I usually sit and watch it with them because they always have questions. My oldest (8) ask why did Max go in his sisters room and break her things? That right there is a teachable moment. I moment where I can explain to my child that sometimes our emotions get the best of us; that no you should never break or touch something that is not yours and so on. When my children ask why Max left the wild things I tell them that Max never really left. That the wild things are a part of Max. They seem to understand this and it makes me proud.

I read most of the reviews and I have to say I think some of the one star reviews are a little harsh. I honestly do not care how many of you like the movie and how many of you did not. We all have a right to our opinion, however, I find it odd that anyone would say this movie is not for children. Why is that? Because Max had an outburst and bit his mother? If that is the case, then your child must live an sheltered life if they have never seen another child act out. Yes, you will probably have to explain some things to your child and you might not. I have a good friend who says that her child just likes the movie because of the wild things. She is not really interested in the plot or the dialog.

I remember this book as a kid. I always wondered what was really going on with Max to make him act out so. I love that the movie delves into the home life of Max and what was really going on. It puts a story behind the outburst.

I also like the soundtrack. I like the way that the music is free and uninhibited, just as children should be. My children like the soundtrack as well. I think they like it because quite a few of the songs have children singing in the background.

If you are trying to decide if you want to see this or if you want to take your children, please go watch the movie. It is truly an excellent movie. Also a word of advice, if you plan on watching this movie based on what people write on Amazon, check the previous reviews and wish list of the review. I think that will give you some insight as well.