Some movies don't age well. Others get better as time goes by. Put The Sand Pebbles in the latter category; its message of racial tolerance and subtle, intelligent questioning of American gunboat diplomacy seems more relevant than ever right now, and the overall quality of the film makes it shine brightly, 34 years on.

Bob Wise made many great films, but this may be his best, on par with The Sound Of Music, I'd say. Steve McQueen made some fine movies, and this may be his peak. Ditto Richard Crenna; his is in fact probably the finest performance here, a true tour de force. Attenborough is also splendid, as is Bergen, who combines innocence and intelligence in a lovely, understated way. Mako as well says volumes while saying little. The cinematography is gorgeous, as are the locations in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Jerry Goldsmith turns in a typically perfect score. There is in fact almost nothing not way above average for '60s Hollywood here. Or any period of cinema, in fact.

At over 3 hours, a film has got to be good to keep you committed. Sand Pebbles does that easily, with a tight script and emotional tension that never lets up. Its frank and for the time unusually brave assessment of American imperialism rings true decades later, and seems quite prescient (when if ever will we get The Afghan Pebbles?). There's more depth on most every level here than we get these days, to be sure. And yet there's also understatement and elegance to spare. It feels like a big budget studio film but looks like real art, a combination all too rare in any cinematic era. And considering that China now owns more of our debt than any other country, and we just keep borrowing more for yet another wonderful war, the messages here about Chinese-American relations have a real resonance. Some of this film looks very racist by today's standards, no doubt, and really makes one reconsider how we treat and have treated other nations and peoples. Only a truly great film can tackle so many issues and still be warm and heartfelt; Sand Pebbles is one of a kind, a true classic.

If only all old classics got this kind of reverent blu-ray package! There's nothing lacking here, from a perfect transfer that seems like you're back in the theater in December 1966 to hours of extras. An hour doc on the film that's very good; short docs on McQueen (everybody loved him, it seems), Wise (the same), the ship, etc. Radio spots. A separate film score (ALL films with good scores should have this! ALL of them! Can you hear us out there in Hollyweird?) with commentary yet, an even rarer thing; a main commentary; interviews with most of the old stars; deleted scenes, a few of which I wish had been in the film (Steve and Candice in a tough little talk, and a perfect McQueen/Attenborough exchange that sums up the heart of the film in one line: "What do you call her?" Don't miss that one); and more. Now that's the sort of cornucopia a film fan dreams of.

All in all, one of the very best blu-rays I've seen, in every way.

What a difference, and what a treat, when a studio shows respect for both the film and for the fans.