My problem with "In Her Shoes" was that I read the witty and touching novel, a respectable bit of chick lit by Jennifer Weiner, not long before I saw the movie. The book made me laugh, mostly due to Rose's biting sense of humor; the movie didn't. (Although, in its defense, it's considered a drama and perhaps wasn't supposed to.)

Normally, I like Toni Colette as an actress. I thought she was brilliant as the the mother of the troubled "I see dead people" kid in The Sixth Sense. But I didn't like her as Rose Feller, one of the two sisters whose disagreements and unshakeable bond form the core of this story. The acting is fine; it's the casting and writing I take issue with. First of all, Rose is overweight in the book, and this lies at the heart of her self-esteem issues. While Toni Colette did gain (and consequently lose) 25 pounds for the role, an oversized butt does not a serious weight issue make. And Colette's part in the movie is far too serious to do the Rose Feller of the book justice. The "real" Rose compensated for her low self-image with a truly charming and self-deprecating sense of humor. This just didn't show in the film.

Cameron Diaz, while not one of my favorite actresses, makes a decent Maggie. Brook Smith (you might remember her as the serial killer's captive in Silence of the Lambs) does a great job as Rose's best friend, Amy, although I think her part could have been played up a bit more. Mark Feuerstein is charming as Simon Stein, although perhaps he's a little too charming. The Simon in the book was short and portly--not exactly Rose's ideal guy--and his efforts to win Rose over endear him to the reader. Feuerstein's portrayal of Simon makes him so cute you wonder why Rose didn't go for him in the first place.

The actress who truly shines in this movie is Shirley MacLaine as the girls' estranged grandmother, Ella Hirsch. Her dignified and decidedly low-key performance shows more poise and control than many of her more flamboyant roles of the past. MacLaine marvelously handles Ella's well-concealed grief over the loss of her mentally ill daughter (Rose and Maggie's mother) and her the resulting distance that loss placed between herself and her granddaughters.

There was some essential rewriting done in the novel-to-screenplay conversion, but overall it isn't too jarring. Instead of Maggie running away and hiding out on the Princeton University campus before heading off to find her long-lost grandmother in Florida, Maggie cuts right to the chase and heads to Miami immediately after a falling out with Rose. Instead of getting some smarts due to squatting in the campus library and attending lectures so she can blend in by pretending to be a student, Maggie discovers poetry via an elderly professor in the Miami nursing home for which she works. I found myself not minding this change, and Maggie's relationship with the aged professor was actually more touching than her skulking around Princeton could have been.

Overall, I think those who haven't read the book will find In Her Shoes a respectable chick flick. It hit its mark and left me sniffling and dabbing my eyes. What was missing, though, was the laughter. Jennifer Weiner's books will make you laugh, despite dramatic subject matter--the movie, unfortunately, will not.