There are three things that make this movie worth watching for its 137 minutes: the perfect, the near-perfect, and one change that would have, maybe, transformed the plot.

First, the perfect. This is a baseball movie but a radio man steals every scene he's in. The genius who persuaded Vin Scully to play himself in this project deserves some kind of Academy Award for casting. "Vinny," so beloved that we don't use a last name, is our Homer; he doesn't describe games as much as he sings them, like an opera virtuoso at top form. Listen to that remarkable voice, with its trademark cadences and literate descriptions, and you'll ask, along with generations of fans, "This is a baseball game? It sounds more like Classical Music. Or maybe Frank Sinatra." A savvy film editor could cut this movie down to just the game sequences, and the baseball fans would go home happy.

Which brings up the near-perfect. Baseball movies look hopelessly fake when they take to the field. Okay, the actors put on uniforms and throw the ball around but the audience, anyone who's actually seen a major league game, knows immediately that these guys are stiffs. Real ballplayers move much faster, throw much harder, and use economy of motion much better than even a gifted amateur can do. Kevin Costner (playing aging ace pitcher Billy Chapel) is reportedly pretty good on the diamond. He certainly looks good in a uniform, and he throws the ball with enough authority as to not get laughed off the field. Where the movie makes this work is the use of television.

By using a televised broadcast--on Fox, in a bit of droll product placement--and cutting from on-field action to its televised images to crowd shots at Yankee Stadium, the viewer almost doesn't notice that the players aren't the pros. And as we noted above, it makes all the difference that Vinny is doing the play-by-play. Nice work by the team of editors who worked on this thing. Also, it doesn't hurt that a crew of real big-league umpires are working the game. They add realism and probably worked cheaper than a crew of big-league ringers would have.

Finally, one thing that would have transformed the story. Costner's character is wrapping up his long career with one final game, a statement on all he's done over 19 years in the Majors. Since Billy Chapel is a pitcher, we can't get the final-at-bat homer to give us the thrill, as Redford did in The Natural. No, only a perfect game can do the job. And Billy gets it done: 27 up, 26 down. Costner, by the way, does mutter pitching tactics to himself as each hitter steps in: this guy crowds the plate, better brush him back; this guy looks confused, throw him something he doesn't expect. People who find baseball boring get a nice tutorial here on the inside game.

Wait though, we've only got 26 outs. One to go, right? Yes, a young phenom is sent to pinch hit. We've got the guy on the mound facing his last hitter while a young slugger steps in for the first at bat in his career. Classic: Age gives way to Youth; the Past becomes the Future. That would take us by surprise, right? Yes, but not this time. The batter socks one off Costner's mitt but the shortstop scoops it up and gets the batter at first by an eyelash. Age wins, and then makes it to the airport in time to reunite with his estranged girlfriend. Yes, there's a romance to keep the non-fans in the audience watching while the rest of us wait for Vinny and the game to come back on.  Just a thought: wouldn't it have been really perfect if the kid got a hit? Maybe the old guy grooves his best fastball, strength against strength, winner take all? Oh well.

In any case, at the end we're grateful. We've got Kevin Costner in another cool masculine role; he's handsome, cheerful, and wears his success lightly. We've got Kelly Preston as the girlfriend; if Helen of Troy's face launched 1000 ships, Ms. Preston's would get at least 990 under sail. And, we've got Vinny. Perfect.