After the success of Star Wars and Star Trek: The Motion Picture, many studios were clamoring for movies that dealt with this re-energized genre of space operas.  With many live action classic romps under its belt including 20,000 Under The Sea, who better than Disney to bring a great tale to a family audience.
Enter 'The Black Hole', Disney's 1979 entrance to Sci-Fi. I remember watching this as a boy when it hit the theatre and was excited to get the DVD, mostly for nostalgia reasons, and re-living what I consider a great 'story'.  But after watching this DVD I had mixed emotions.
On the pro side, I was thrilled to take part in viewing this once again, and was reminded why The Black Hole stuck with me all these years, even after other more popular and big-budgeted action space action thrillers came and went (ex: Krull, Battle Beyond the Stars)...it was the story.  Sure there was some flat dialogue, and some plot struggles, but overall it was a pure space fantasy movie.  A small group of explorers and their sidekick robot, Vincent (Disney's hybrid version of R2-D2 and C-3PO), are on an exploratory mission of uncharted space when they discover a black hole.  Upon investigation they discover the USS Cygnus, a very large space carrier thought to have been lost many years ago along with its crew.  Our explorers soon discover that the Cygnus is still inhabited after all these years, by a lone surviving scientist and his very imposing robot, Maximillian (painted devil red).  Other robots and faceless androids are on board, and soon our explorers uncover a more sinister plot.  Our lone scientist has gone slightly mad, will not let our explorers leave the ship, the crew never abandoned ship as first explained, and now our scientist wants to take the Cygnus through the black hole to the other side, perhaps to become a god himself.
Throughout the story, we are given clues to what is really happening, and the surprise revelations towards the climax are reminiscent of what Rod Serling may have wrote.  All in all a good family adventure, without too much violence (it is implied however,...this is Disney), no swearing, nice large sets and a good diversity of characters.
The cons: Even after the success of Star Wars and Star Trek, it seems Disney rushed this movie to completion with little money spent on special effects.  Though the movie was made in '79, it looks as if it was made way before Star Wars or Trek just on the camp value alone.  At times it reminded me of the 60's TV series Lost in Space, or the original Disney 20,000 Leagues.  Also, it is quite apparent that the lasers are pure animation as are their affects, some of the sets though large look cheap, lighting and fog machines are used in situations that are kinda atrocious, and probably my biggest complaint: you can SEE all the wires holding the robots in just about every scene.  That in itself is unforgivable given the fact other movies at that time and movie making techniques were advanced enough to hide them.
I do not believe the transfer was re-mastered.  Throughout the movie there is noticeable frame flecks and graininess at times.  The sound does not appear to be enhanced either so I'd say the over all quality is no better than the original VHS release.  There are also virtually no extras: 1 theatrical trailer and a very boring picture gallery.  All this gallery contains is scanned production shots and numerous variations of release posters.  Nothing too much to really wow the viewer.  Considering this is sorta a cult classic film some interviews or production notes are a no-brainer, but sadly not included.
Hate to sound too negative here, but it is a must for your collection if you enjoy good science fiction stories and can safely share this with you family.