The original Night of the Demons is perhaps one my most favorite horror movies of all time.  Of course, that being said, I had to see the modernized version for myself.  The new one has a couple of positives.  I really love the music and I don't know why, as far as I've seen, there wasn't a soundtrack put out for this movie.  In fact, I believe it kind of saves this movie from being a big zero.  I've actually looked up the soundtrack and have been trying to collect the songs from the various artists to make my own soundtrack for it.  I guess that tells you how well I love the music in this movie.  Additionally, it is visually appealing.  Lots of bright lights, color, costumes, mayhem - everything Halloween should be.  The demon effects are really cool - I especially like the demon that Angela turns into during the course of the movie.  Being an Edward Furlong fan, I was glad to see he had a place here.  However, the original is much, much better.  Shannon Elizabeth doesn't really do anything for me as an actress and the original Angela would have kicked her you-know-what.  You have glimpses of the original characters but they are not as expertly done.  I also enjoy the funeral home idea versus the new idea of a mansion in New Orleans.  And lets face it, nothing in this movie can top the dance that Angela does in the first one to "Stigmata Martyr".  For a built-on-cheese extravaganza, the original had a witchy quality that kind of made you shudder at times and question whether or not Angela was REALLY possessed.  In fact, the first Night of the Demons reminded me of the same feeling I had watching Evil Dead.  I think I cared about the characters in the original more than I cared about any of the characters in the new one.  How can you forgo such strong personalities as Stooge? I think Monica Keena was trying to modernize the Judy roll, but as goody goody as Judy was, she was much more loveable.  If you like Maxim type chics in tight costumes, swearing rampages constructed to fill in where strong personalities are lacking, and girl-on-girl action as well as some guy-on-girl action but nothing that interesting or new - then you might like this.  If you check it out for anything, be sure to pay attention to the music and the demon FX.  In my view the oldie is still the goodie.