This movie was terrible on so many levels!  If i could give this movie 0 stars i would but Amazon wont allow you to do that. Where on earth do i begin...Oh i know , the costume!! God spiderman has never looked so awful! There is no clear webbing drawn on his mask like the old comics, His eyes are yellow instead of reflective or white, and his head is so large that he honestly looks more like Martian from space then the wall crawler i know and love.  THERE IS NO J. Jonah Jameson in this movie!!!! which is madness! seeing how he first appeared in Amazing spiderman comic #1!!!!!!!!  of March 1963 !!! YES HE APPEARED IN THE VERY FIRST ISSUE OF SPIDERMAN!!!! SO WHY Isn't he here????  THERE IS NO HARRY , NOT EVEN AN HONORABLE MENTION OF HIM , no bonding with aunt may , nothing warm just stupidity. Oh and did i mention how crappy peter parker is in this film??? Instead of being the warm hearted underdog that most people can relate to ,  we now have a dark , snotty , and arrogant peter parker who's now  a lover boy who shoots webs at Gwen stacy on a roof top and makes out with her all the time...Uhhh last i checked parker was a dork and he only gained confidence when he was wearing his suite, Thats why he constantly verbal lashed out all of his enemies with wise cracks and lame jokes because at heart he was a loser! Sami rami's parker captured this on so many levels.

NEXT There are so many inconsistencies in this film that its disgusting , take for instance ( SPOILER!!! ) when spiderman went out to look for uncle bens murderer. There was a point and time where he ran in fear from simple thugs , yet a few scenes later hes chasing a 10 foot tall lizard man. Question... wouldn't you be more terrified of a giant lizard opposed to simple thugs?  And second, why would spiderman run from thugs! he could easily whip them blindfolded!  ...I remember when i saw this in the theatre a few months back.. A 10 year old kid in the audience asked his mom the exact same thing I just stated to you guys above, " mom why is spiderman running away from thugs when he has super powers!"  as funny as that may sound, THIS made me incredibly mad!!!! I nearly left the theatre after seeing that scene.

Oh and did i mention the action?
 The action scenes lasted 5 seconds , Lizard looked like king Kupa from mario not The lizard i knew and loved. And lastly spider-mans powers were weakened 10 fold!! he had trouble swinging with his webs!!! got shot in the leg and limped, swung through lizards legs like a monkey instead of punching him in the face or kicking him!!  THE ONLY THING AMAZING about this FILM IS HOW STUPID AND LAME IT IS.  THERE WAS NEVER ANY REASON FOR A REBOOT and THERE was NEVER any reason to scrap such a perfect spiderman series in place of this!!  Stick with the originals , they are far superior to this!