Much has been said of Maddy's last tour, Drowned World 2001.  Eight long years passed between this tour and her prior tour ('93's The Girlie Show).  Was it worth the wait?  Yes, and no.
Madonna has become so incredibly self-conscious in recent years, that she doesn't allow herself to be spontaneous at times.  Madonna's shows have always been precise and cohesive.  That doesn't necessarily equate a show that connects with its audience, although it may entertain and wow the senses.  Madonna's lack of spontaneity performing live weakens her shows at times since it's the same production night after night.  After a certain amount of shows, the performer (this case being Madonna) becomes bored with the show...wouldn't you after doing the same thing over, and over, and over again?
Before, Madonna rose above such calculation because she seemed to genuinely enjoy performing.  This was most evident on '93's Girlie Show tour.  Although Blond Ambition will forever remain Maddy's classic tour, The Girlie Show came after a Madonna backlash by the media and public.  The only thing Madonna had supporting her was herself, her close friends/family, and lastly her fans.  She gave her all to her fans during her '93 tour, as was captured on film and for anyone who saw her live that year.  Madonna connected to her audience because she *wanted* to connect.
Drowned World, unfortunately, suffers a lot from Madonna's newfound spirituality, children/husband, and self-consciousness.  Madonna no longer needs to connect to her audience because she, in a way, no longer needs them.  The show is strictly there for Madonna alone, not for her fans.  This is why most of the tracks played during Drowned World are new tracks off her last two albums.  Out of a 22 set-list, she only includes two old/classic tracks...the rest are mostly tracks she had never performed live before.  This might be exciting for the artist performing, but it's not very enjoyable for the fans. 
Madonna is distant in Drowned World, and somewhat cold.  Again, due to the fact that she doesn't truly involve the audience in the show.  The only time she speaks to the audience is during "The Funny Song" and for anyone who has seen multiple shows from the Drowned World tour (myself being one of them), they know it's the same song/dance routine for every city she hit.
On Madonna's most recent promotional tour for her "American Life" album all she had was her voice, her guitar player, and small audiences of 300 or less people.  It's during these small shows that Madonna seemed happy, and seemed to genuinely connect with her fans (or at least pretended to).  During a show of 20,000 + people every night in front of you, it's not so important for them to see what you emote vs. simply getting through the show, singing the songs, and hitting your dance steps.
Not to say that Drowned World is not amazing to watch, it absolutely is.  The show is an incredible combination of lights, music, and theatrics.  The coreography for Madonna's troupe of dancers is forward, and agressive...it works for the show since Drowned World is very much about agressiveness, and power.  The show is solid, and it doesn't stop for anything, not even audience applause.  The show is like a beautiful art/masterpiece in a museum...you look at it in awe, but you never connect to it.
Maybe Madonna should consider this the next time she goes on tour.  The audience reactions when she performed "Like A Virgin" and "Like A Prayer" during the promo tour for her latest album was overwhelming.  It was during these songs that you saw the audience smile, and Madonna smile with them.  Obviously, Drowned World shouldn't have *only* included the oldies, but she should have split it up like she did during '93's Girlie Show (half of the tracks performed were new, while the remaining half were the classics).
Hopefully the next time Maddy tours she will remember that concerts are there for the audience as much as the artist.  It is where the performer's audience finally gets to connect past their CD player.  During Drowned World, you never see Madonna smile.  It's sad, she used to really enjoy performing for us.  
Ahh well...