As someone who has watched this film would say, "make friends with coffee" for this movie has risen to the occation of that of a horror classic. Unlike most reviewers, I will not tell you the entire plot as many others have done. For even if we explained in simple datail the reign of terror that the well known murderer, Freddy has inflicted upon the children of Elm Street it certainly would leave you with a taste in the mouth that would leave you wanting so much more. Instead I will explain the film's unique plot as a whole and give you the tools to understand the frightening and dark world of Freddy Krueger.

  If one was to watch almost all of his films, one would see a pattern of abstract and almost unreliable techniques for Freddy's coming back to haunt the unknowing children of Elm Street who only rest peacefully when his name doesn't come about or for that matter, his very existence isn't heard of. To truely understand where Freddy is coming,let's review what exactly he did to piss off the parents of Elm street to begin with. First off, a man who kills children is not a likeable charactor in a town of suburban folks with bottles of alchole hidden in their personal locked bars. Second, let me just say this for fact sake, as horrible as it may seem Freddy liked little girls more than boys and did more to them then is explained anywhere else. You'll begin to understand this once you've seen the way he treats his virgins in other films. 
 Now, although the parents had him arrested once he had killed too many of the town's kids (how many before it became enough?) IT seemed like everything was going pretty good until the court ruled agianst the town stating that a piece of evidence was obtained illegaly and therefore, Freddy was released to reign more havoc. The parents, being as upset as they were decided to take the law into their own hands and in a very medevil kind of way threw lit bottles of alchole into his house causing the entire house along with Freddy to burn. Afterwards, who knows how long. The memory of Freddy Krueger began to stir about the town and soon enough it begins to terrorize the students living on Elm Street. of course, if it were my kids and I had helped to bring an end to a phycho killer I would have moved very far away but then again without irresponsible parents you have no film. So the show must go on. Anyway, Freddy comes back around this time and the parents are devistated but at the same time reluctant to think that Freddy has come back at all. 
 I suppose the reason for this film's strong impact upon the general public is it's overwhelming sense of fear. How a film delivers it's killer and how that killer strikes is how most films have become so popular. Halloween; Mike stalks his victims on Halloween, Candyman; comes out at the sound of his name being stated three times, and last but not least Jason; who's reign of terror comes out from his overwhelming aggression for those who visit his grave or should I say Camp Crystal Lake. For Freddy Krueger, it doesnt take a costume and some candy, a visit to your local camp for the summer,or a stupid slumber party dare game, all it takes is the simple slumber that could possibly be your last. Wes Craven is a genius when it comes to the overall feel of the film and his defining need to scare the living daylights out of you for pure fun. Sure, you'll probably spill your popcorn all over the couch, and sure you'll most likely hate yourself for watching the film at such a late hour alone before bed time but at least you'll still be alive tomorrow. So sleep dreams because 1_2_ Freddy's coming for you!  
  My need to stir away from the overall plot of this film is a bit of a silly one i'm sure since I've told you so much about Freddy but has yet to direct you to the overall story line but I have a good reason for doing so. It's pointless sometimes to know what is to come in a film such as this. What does one expect anyhow? a laid out script of events to take place? It would do you no good anyhow because the fear that will envilope you when you watch this film with make all other prior thoughts disapear and instead you'll be wondering if you should stay up a little longer then usual. But don't take my advice, see it for yourself. And be sure to let me know if insomnia looks good to you too?  A Nightmare on Elm Stree is a true classic of it's kind and worth every penny. Just do what I do, set your alarm clock!