"Jaws - The Revenge" is just plain and simple a bad movie.
Lorrain Gary and Michael Cain are actors I respect and admire for their work on other films, and that is why it is so hard for me to find a logical reason why either one of them would participate in this mess of a sequel. One can only hope that they simply had too much faith in the director and honestly believed that he would make a good movie. And even then, the script would have sent most serious actors on the run.
First of all the plot is unbelieveably poorly conceived. Even if you accept the concept of a shark having a vendetta against a particular family, the story is so full of holes and illogical twists that you end up sitting in front of the sceen in utter disbelief: Ellen Brody has flasbacks to incidents where she wasn't present?! The pilot Hoagy actually chrashes his plain into the ocean to rescue Ellen (this is laugh-out-loud-funny if you actually consider how ridicules it is), and subsequently survives being trapped inside the plane while the shark is attacking him, then swims to the boat in prestine condition?!
Jake somehow survives being dragged into the ocean, lodged between the shark's teeth, with massive bite wounds and blood loss?! What?...it just let him go? Oh, I forget, the REAL target is still Ellen Brody, who feels she has to sacrifice herself in order to stop the killings. The shark then tries to kill her by leaping unto the boat (much as in the original JAWS) but not until it has managed to stand still in the water raised on its tail long enough for Ellen to ram into it, with so much speed that it actually BLOWS up. 
Need I say more? But it doesn't end here. The plot is completely horrendous. Then the least you could hope for is that the action scenes were somewhat well executed. But no, not even that is the director able to pull off. First of all the shark looks entirely fake, making it impossible to have proper footage of it, rendering many of the scenes ineffective. On top of that the scenes are so poorly constructed that no suspense or real "action" is gained from them. The camera angles are flat and unfocused, the editing is illogical and robs the sequences of any natural narrative flow.
In the end you have to be a really, really, REALLY big JAWS fan to enjoy this film, and even then I find it hard to justify actually liking it. The original was a masterpiece of action and suspense, the second one was pretty good, the third was a bit embarassing - but this last chapter (so far) of the JAWS saga is so bad I think most people just want to forget it ever happened.