What I loved:

Great acting (brilliant, in fact), an incredible entrance to a world I know little about (Afghanistan in the 1970s), often excellent storytelling, and an overall sense of trying to grow up and right past wrongs.

What I hated (strap yourself in):

1) The son--Amir, the main character--never blames his father for being a rejecting brute, because Amir doesn't ever allow himself to explore his father's brutality.  The writers/directors also fail to explore this to any sufficient degree.  As the result, Amir comes across as a weak, intrinsically flawed coward, selling out and rejecting his loyal best friend of childhood--Hassan.  There was nothing but the barest acknowledgement that Amir was entirely set up to behave this way by his father.  In many ways his father loved and admired Hassan more, and emotionally rejected and shamed Amir because of it.  Amir was desperate for his father's love, and had no emotional choice but to brutally reject Hassan for it.

2) The father had so many powerful opportunities to get closer to Amir, and to explore Amir's pain, and yet utterly failed to do so, and instead just drove his own wedge of rejection in deeper--all the while blaming Amir for his cowardice.  The director and writer failed miserably to elucidate this in a way that accomplishes anything other than laying most of the blame at Amir's feet--blaming the child and exonerating the parent.  Same old ugly lie that society's thrives on.

3) The father is presented as a brave hero.  Yet what is really brave about rejecting your own son?  The father takes a bold move by standing up to a brutal Russian soldier who wants to rape a young Afghan woman, and the father is nearly killed for it.  But is this true heroism?  What about his obligation to protect his son, and be a real father to him?  Had the soldier killed the father (which nearly happened), Amir, who was motherless, would have had no parent, and would likely have died--if only emotionally.  Had the father really been brave he would have fought for his son fully, and fought the demons within himself that prevented him from being a more nurturing, respectful parent.

4) Instead of confronting his brutal father, Amir (and the director) confronts the Taliban--making them the ultimate bad-guy.  Yeah, they're horrible--but it's always easier to blame an evil regime than a lousy parent.

5) Many of the scenes of Afghanistan in the year 2000 were CHEESY.  I'm no expert on the Taliban, but this film struck me as over-the-top.  Okay, we all know the Taliban can be brutal and primitive and anti-women, but it felt unnecessary to present their leaders as pedophiles as well.  And the movie totally lost me when the main character and the boy take on the Taliban with simply a slingshot and "courage."  It went from being a deep movie that strived for something real into something more befitting Harrison Ford.  (And don't get me wrong--Harrison Ford can be great, but when I want to watch Harrison Ford I watch "Indiana Jones" or "Star Wars.")