Review - Persona

After pouring through what can only be described as some of the best films of all time - Citizen Kane, Pulp Fiction, Goodfellas, and many more - I couldn't help but think "is this it? Is this the best that almost a hundred years of cinema can offer?" Not that there's anything wrong with the films I just listed - they're legitimate classics - but still, I couldn't shake the feeling that the art of film had the potential to be deeper and much more meaningful than the famous Hollywood offers that are constantly quoted and referenced.

With that need ever present in my head, I decided to explore the films of Ingmar Bergman. It's with a great deal of embarrassment that I admit that Persona is as of yet my first, and only, exposure to Bergman's work, but I feel it couldn't be a better introduction to the subtle brilliance of his filmmaking and philosophy.

Persona starts strangely - with random uncomfortable images flashing at rapid pace across the screen before we're shown a scene involving a dead woman and a half-nude prepubescent boy. It's almost as if Bergman designed this introduction to ward off those who lack the courage or the intelligence to see past the strange and the shocking to the real wisdom that lies beneath it. That, in fact, is what Persona as a whole becomes; a strange and sometimes disturbing voyage into the mind of two women, and how profoundly lost even the most normal among us can become when we delve too deeply into our own psyche.

This is when we meet our two players. Elizabet Vogler, an actress rendered mute by a psychosis, and her caregiver, Alma, a nurse who begins the film on the universal and  prototypical path to a mundane life; a uneventful career path, an unassuming fianc&eacute;, and the promise of a future with equally unassuming children. After a short introduction, the two women find themselves in a seaside villa - Alma's superior feeling it would be for the benefit of Vogler's health. One at the villa, Alma begins to open up to the consistently mute Vogler and as she does so, we see her deteriorate into profound identity confusion and illusion.

I won't go into any more of the story, as there isn't much more to tell. And if I tried, it would merely sound confusing and bizarre to someone who has yet to experience the film. Suffice it to say, we're taken on a journey into Alma's psychology that becomes as frightening and as curiously warped as the images that first greeted us upon starting the film.

Bergman achieves this level of depth and sophisticated storytelling through mild yet subtly lewd exposition paired with an extremely well crafted visual presentation that heightens the overall tension and metaphorical nature of the film. Bergman seems to have a meaning behind every aspect of the film's visual landscape. From his shot selection, to framing, to choice of scenery and even clothing of our protagonists, everything is to give us further insight into the story that lies in front of us.

It takes true literary skill to achieve the level of execution that Bergman achieves in presenting his story, and more often than not, when a writer attempts to weave such a complex tale, they fall flat with shaky logic or an unfulfilling conclusion. Delightfully, Bergman manages to deftly avoid all of these pitfalls and conclude his narrative in a way that's both satisfying yet as compellingly vague and aloof as the rest of the film.

By the time the movie was over, I found that the question I had posed to myself at the beginning of this article had been answered; no, cinema doesn't end with Clasblanca or The Godfather. The Silence of the Lambs isn't the deepest we can delve into the madness of the mind. No, while it may not be as epic or as flashy (or even as technically good) as other, more well known movies, it does achieve something that sparingly few American movies have; it makes the most of its craft, it transcends mere entertainment, and meshes fiction and photography and acting into the singular art that we call film.

There's been a lot of movies made recently that are little more than love letters to cinema - Hugo, and The Artist to name a few - but if you really want to see a film that plays true tribute to its artform, Persona is the film for you.