I suggest you see this movie if:

1. You're a genius and need to feel dumber

2. You're a liberal and don't believe Hollywood has an anti-conservative agenda

3. You're an idiot and need to feel smarter

I'm no genius and no liberal, so I fall into the third category. This movie is complete garbage. Force-fed political-driven plot (haven't we had enough of this?), crappy dialogue (no surprise), non-believable scenes.  There were a few redeeming qualities such as the cool gadgets and the fact Jackson can light up almost any movie no matter how stupid.  Just to be clear, I am a fan of Jackson's talents, just not a fan of his views and movie roles.

My favorite part of the movie was when computer boy hacks into NSA's security system within a couple seconds/minutes/hours.  I mean, come on.  We're talking about a security agency whose sole purpose is to protect National Security.  Key word here guys, "Security".  Not something you just waltz into. Not to mention he's able to find this "needle in the haystack" document while he's in there.

Let me sum it up this movie for you:  "Black man done wrong by white man gets chance to seek revenge and justice".  It seems at least one movie like this comes out every year.  And almost always stars either Samuel Jackson (Rules of Engagement, Changing Lanes, Shaft, Die Hard III, The Negotiator, A Time to Kill) or Denzel Washington (Manchurian Candidate, Out of Time, John Q, The Siege, Crimson Tide, Ricochet). Why is this?  For the most part (of course there are exceptions), white folks would like to blur the lines between black and white.  As a white person, it becomes frustrating to constantly see your race labeled as evil/greedy/selfish, uncool, oblivious people.  This film just further proves my point...they're either:

Evil (Dafoe, his 'hillbilly' agent, sexy white girl)

Nerdy pawns (computer boy)

Oblivious pawns (Speedman and Strauss)

I did find it a bit comical that Dafoe's character's initials spell GOD.

I was able to look past most of the racial remarks made by Ice Cube (the supposed hero of the movie), however, the one that stuck out was when he called Dafoe's white NSA agent a 'hillbilly'.  Isn't that just a tab bit insulting and racist?...even if he was the bad guy.  I could understand if the villain was to utter those words to the hero, as it further degrades the villain's character.  For one thing, the guy wasn't even remotely 'backwoods' material.  He was a highly trained/educated special agent.

Also, why does the movie have to portray most of the black characters as "cool" criminals?  Ice Cube's only friends run chop shops.  Is that supposed to imply this is a cool profession?  If you've never had your car stolen before, you probably don't see a problem with this.

As XXX-2 was worse than the first, let's hope the third installment doesn't follow suit.