A delightful richly artful animation piece, a true classic; gorgeous in sound and colours.

However, this was made in the 50's and be aware of the prejudices that really irk me:

(1) Depicts cats as evil: Why are cats depicted as evil??? Cats are NOT evil. In Disney's Cinderella, the cat is fat, sneaky, and personifies something demonic that deserves to die. In fact, he does;he's called "Lucifer", which is the name of Satan. This prejudice really disgusted me as cats are no more evil than other animals and cannot help being born a cat.

(2) All heroines are lilly white caucasians. What is this saying about people of other races?

(3) All good looking, handsome men and beautiful women are good with kind hearts; plain looking or ugly are evil. Nice depiction of Drucilla and Anastasia. Plain girls, but vain, selfish, and evil minded who just want to do stepsister in.

Truth of the matter is, good looking handsome men and beautiful women can be vain and manipulative too, and "ugly" or plain people can be quite nice individuals with beautiful hearts.

(4) This show was made before the age of women's liberation. In those days, the main job of a woman is to get married, have babies and live happily ever after. This is almost a joke these days: This simply does not work these days (countless women are divorced with children and deadbeat dads). The worst morale of the story--the only way a woman can be happy is get married to Prince Charming. He will magically transform her into a princess. For all of the multitudes "Prince Charmings"--countless numbers cheated, ran away, and even evade their responsibilities like credit card payments and child support. So much for Prince Charming.  Women these days should marry with a considerable amount of caution. And be watchful of STDs. Rich guys are in short supply and generally already taken (or they are gay), and women these days have to be self sufficient and cannot count on anybody. If it happens....great!...but don't count on it.

It's a great animation, but I gave it three stars because these prejudices really got under my skin. Sure it's a kid's movie, but what is this teaching young people?

Thank you for your time and reading.