I know that most of you that gave this movie three stars or less were disgusted and shocked by it. I think that what most of you felt was the prime tool used in the attempt to make an impact with its audience: shock  value. I have to admit, I cringed a little bit when I was watching the  lesbian sex scenes, but I had to remind myself that relationships like that  are going on EVERYWHERE. Then there's the strange behavior of each  character with the exception of Chloe Sevigny and Hilary Swank. Everyone  drinks all day and gets high every night in a dark and foreboding wasteland  called Falls City, Nebraska, bumper skiing and generally acting like a  bunch of idiots. Trailer trash, to put it simply. Everyone is warped in  their own weird way, whether it be from something behavioral or something  sexual. I also had to remind myself that there's trailer trash like that  EVERYWHERE too. Most people know this, know that they can go into a bad  part of town and see it instead of turning on their televisions and have to  watch it, but I think that's what this movie needed. All throughout,  there's a strong sense of discomfort for every subject. That's life.  There's always going to be something that people don't like to talk about,  that they won't admit or they're trying to avoid, that they're biased  against or have a deep hatred for. Homosexuality, dysfunctional families,  drugs, alcoholism and indecent behavior are all the integral parts for a  depraved story such as this one, and the raw manner in which it was  directed was the foundation for the shock value and the disturbing but all  too real truth, sad as it may be. Things as crazy and depressing as this  happen everyday. This movie is a sad reminder of murders such as the  inhumane ending of the life of Matthew Sheppard, a gay high school student  who was harrassed and finally killed by fellow classmates. There's not a  glint of hope throughout the film, but the performances are what make this  movie watchable. Hilary Swank is unbelievably convincing, her mannerisms  and boyish charisma endearing and impressive. Chloe Sevigny is her  right-hand, a powerful and emotional addition to the ill-fated romance that  they share, and the blind love that tenaciously survives even after Brandon  Teena's true identity is painfully revealed. I have to admit, the shock  value worked on me, especially during the final half hour of the movie when  all the prejudice and hate in the world unite to reveal the hideous face of  evil, once again taking more human lives. Even though there are several  warning labels posted in these customer reviews, please give this film a  fighting chance. It will touch you in its own way, and it will teach you  more than expect to learn.