Having only recently become aware of Vin Diesel from his action movies, I found more subtlety in his acting than I expected in formula science fiction. I just watched Find Me Guilty last night. I have to say, if there is a newly constructed 9th Circle of Hollywood Hell, it must be occupied by fine actors who are subsequently type cast into shallow oblivion by the Great Hollywood Star Making Machine--or perhaps that is being too harsh. After all, Hollywood has to make a buck and they dish what they think The Public wants--with tremendous risks as private equity firms investing in the movie biz have learned time and again, Little changed since the days of Roman bread and circuses.
  Diesel carries his role in Find Me Guilty with total ability, is deft at emotional tone and timing, is utterly authentic in his character.
  I have spent a fair number of hours in court, and except for the necessarily clipped versions of what usually takes place in opening and closing statements, the highlights of court drama were entirely credible.
  If there was ever an actor who could carry the lead in On The Waterfront, or Death of a Salesman, both quintessential tests of an actor in revealing authentic human vulnerabilities, Vin Diesel is that actor.
  Artistically what he needs now more than anything is another go with the same deft writing team who pulled together Find Me Guilty, a script focusing on Spielberg's loyalty to family and a more restrained but unambiguous, non-ironic ending to a good tale without driving him into another running scene from the Riddick series--in other words, a film that would carry him into his rightful place among greats in the Pantheon of Film, but alas, the average public would probably have nothing to do with it--his career would be mauled and millions would be lost. Many an actor has fallen on his or her sword trying to reach deeper within themselves in roles that move beyond the genre which our popular masses are capable of following. If he does not risk it, no blame, he has given us a fine window on his skills and his taste for powerful mythic conflict.
  But...people--the Public-- can surprise you, as all those trial counsel in the movie agree, stunner jury verdicts can elate or devastate with tremendous surprise. Diesel just may be able to go from film wrap to download and the ether viral great beyond without squeezing through the needle's eye of butts-in-the-chairs public theater.
  Or so we might hope. Enough of the chewing gum on the shoes and coughers behind us. We can make our own popcorn and drink and pause the movie to answer nature in a facility whose population is limited to our kin and friends. Getting gouged for the bricks and morter overhead of a public movie theater experience is something I generally avoid. Welcome to the Future.
  But I digress.
  Superb movie, superb acting by Diesel and shame on Hollywood for not giving this man his proper serious recognition as an actor. I have to wonder if The High Art Hollywood Clique feels threatened by Diesel's capabilities and the types of roles he finds comfortable.