This has got to be one of my all-time favorite WW II movies. Not for any historical accuracy, not for realism, but just for all around fun.

Kelly is a busted out lieutenant (he attacked the wrong hill and wiped out half a company of GI's .. someone had to get the blame and he got picked) who fatefully stumbles across a secret Nazi gold shipment worth $16 million when he captures a German colonel. Problems? Well, the gold is locked in a bank in Claremont, France, thirty miles behind the German lines.

Enlisting the aid of a few hand-picked men (such as opportunist supply sergeant Don Rickles (Crap Game), Hippie tanker Donald Sutherland (Odd Ball) and his own platoon of unique GI's), Kelly embarks on a quest to make the Second Great War pay off by offering each man who reaches the gold an equal share.  The team is joined by highly unlikely units such as a bridging unit using a marching band for manpower, and the gravediggers. Later, even a German SS panzer crew takes part.

Divisional Commanding General, Carrol O'Conner hears snatches of conversation while the ragtag unit is engaging in a fight to cross a river. O'Conner has been chastising his staff on their lack of energy in pushing forward lately and rallies to the unknown leader of the unit that penetrated German lines (Listen to that guy! Attack! Attack! Attack! That's the kind of enthusiasm I'm talking about. If he was a Major, he's a Colonel now!)

The film, aside from the humorous angle of GI's seeking to pull off the perfect crime, is visually rewarding. Combat sequences (which there are several) are well thought out and realistic. A perfect marriage of humor and a good war story. What especially impresses me is that finally German Tiger tanks look like Tiger tanks instead of M-47's or M-48's with German markings (Patton, The Devil's Brigade, etc). What a refreshing change!!!

No blood and guts in this one. Though soldiers are killed in battle, there is no graphic representation - making this movie suitable for the whole family to enjoy together. Even the music is offbeat and up beat. And it stars Clint Eastwood. What more can we ask?

Heartily recommended for all.

~P~