First off, this film fits into the same horror category as movies like Paranormal Activity (which was infinitely better) and Darkness Falls (also better). I enjoyed the first half, even with plot holes big enough to drive Mack trucks through. And you'll figure out what one of the biggest is towards the end when it's highlighted by Luke and Rosemary's search for a light. It basically took me out of, "Ooh, creepy," and straight into "Wth?" Usually if you spend the second half of a movie having an imaginary argument with the characters, the writers have fallen flat on their faces.

As for characters, Rosemary was disturbingly stereotypical (especially the method of speaking Thandie Newton would drift into when emotionally distraught) and Paul was incredibly confusing. It's almost as if the character was originally written with the intention that he be a nerdy teenaged boy, then a handful of lines about old movies and songs were thrown in later to justify Leguizamo's cast. I'm disappointed in that, since 60% of the reason I watched this was because I deeply enjoy Leguizamo.

Finally, I side with a lot of other reviewers in saying that the ending was complete garbage. Ambiguity is one thing, stupidity is another. It's like the writers simply didn't know how to end it and didn't have any personal artistic ethics that would've at least excused the plot holes. That said, the movie was far from terrible. I'd give it three stars.

The reason it is receiving one star is for the sheer hassle it came with. My laptop speakers aren't great, but they're perfectly capable of playing media files within hearing range. But this file had audio so tinny that I had to unplug my laptop and take it to my desktop, where I then had to remove the audio and visual hookups to my desktop and use connect them to my laptop. And even after hooking my laptop up to a more than powerful stereo system, adjusting multiple audio settings, setting the system and Unbox volumes on 100% and putting the stereo system up so high I could hear them crackle over the film, it was still not loud enough. I had to completely silence everything around me. Maybe I wouldn't have had to go through all that trouble if I could've transferred the file to my desktop (which has a better audio card), but no. Amazon's DRM is so utterly afraid you might do something Bad!!!, once you download the film to one device, you are stuck with it.

Essentially, it wasn't worth the headache. I could've spent $5 at a local matinee for this film instead of wasting $10 for a film with worse audio than a fake dvd bought in NYC. I will try an Amazon rental once more, but I sincerely doubt Unbox (with it's unnecessary brightness controls) and severely hampering DRM is going to find a home on my systems.

Recommendation on the film: rent the film after it releases.
Recommendation on renting it at Amazon: don't, or at least have a great sound system.