I initially bought this DVD because it was cheap, and as any parent of young children knows, you get to see all of your kid's movies a horrendous number of times, so I'm always looking to add a new title into the mix.

This is a brilliant film on so many levels.  It kills me that, in my kid's daycare, as the kids sit and watch the animated garbage that cable TV has to offer, I'll say to the other parents, "do you have Curse of the Were-Rabbit?" and get blank stares every time.

I have seen all of the W&G shorts, and while they are all great, I really think the series hit its stride with this movie.  For anyone unaware of what the characters are all about, Wallace is a middle-aged British inventor (and perennial bachelor) who lives with his faithful dog and sidekick, Grommit.  Grommit, like all animated dogs, does not speak (why are we so creatively biased towards the canine?  All manner of creatures speak in cartoons, but never a dog--except in "Up," but I digress).  Grommit always saves his master when he gets in over his head, often while pursuing a new lady love.

The vibe and environment of W&G is awesome.  The house has all the dressings of a 40 year old BBC set, but is packed to the gills with futuristic inventions with a mid-century flair--tons of chubby buttons and heavy levers power all manner of devices... in the case of "Were-Rabbit," the devices enable our heroes to capture rampaging rabbits in an English country town where the driving passion is vegetable growing.  The annual Giant Vegetable competition is only days away, and an enormous Were-Rabbit is pillaging everyone's gardens, and threatens to ruin the festival.  It sounds--and is--completely absurd.  But it WORKS, and the humor is so subtle, and so constant, that you notice new gags every time you watch it.  It is impossible to pigeon-hole this movie's sensibilities, but it seems to fall somewhere between Monty Python and Wiley Coyote.

The fact that it cannot be pigeon-holed into a neat, marketable category is why this film has remained obscure, even in a market where anything animated makes a hundred million dollars at the box office, because people will park their kids in front of any family-friendly and pedestrian piece of garbage.  Dreamworks opened their animation studio strongly with The Prince of Egypt and Shrek, but faded quickly and has ranked a very distant second to Pixar for years.  If they would put more effort, more marketing, and more money into films like this one, they might have a shot at Best Animated Film, and we'd all save a few brain cells in the process.

I don't want to portray this movie as overly stuffy and offbeat.  You'll laugh a hell of a lot more watching this than stock fare like Ice Age 3 or Shrek 14.  And it has plenty of burp and fart jokes--and even sexual innuendo-- to break up the odd humor and keep everyone laughing.

I can't do this movie justice, but I can say this: I have seen this DVD on sale here for as little as $6.49.  For the love of all things holy... buy it.  It'll be a welcome distraction from the Shark Tales and Happy Feets of the world.