When viewing this movie, I was not entirely sure what to expect. I had at least somewhat high expectations since I am a fan of both Tina Fey and Steve Carell. While the film wasn't a complete disappointment, it wasn't quite the comic romp I'd anticipated.

In the film, Claire and Phil Foster (Fey and Carell) are an average married couple from New Jersey. Sick of the humdrum routine of their lives, they decide to go into the city to try a new fancy restaurant for one of their "date nights." With no reservation, they fail to get in to the restaurant, so, on a whim, they end up taking a reservation for the "Tripplehorns." During dinner they are approached by two men who, assuming they are the Tripplehorns, take them out to the alley and harass them about a stolen flash drive. Their date night soon turns into a slightly dangerous yet amusing string of events which unravels as the couple attempts to straighten out the situation.

The plot and the writing are nothing to marvel over. While the story is entertaining, it is the same sort of "couple gets caught in amusing situation they must get themselves out of" plot which you could find in a number of other recent action comedies. The highlight of the movie is certainly the acting and great chemistry between Fey and Carell, which make the movie worth watching.  While the pair hasn't really teamed up in previous movies, their similar acting styles make it a match well made, which is apparent each time one of them delivers a line. There are also a number of appearances and cameos by actors such as James Franco, Mila Kunis, Kristen Wiig, and Mark Wahlberg.

A great deal of the humor seen in the film is physical comedy. There are many improbable situations as well, which require some suspension of disbelief. For example, there is an unlikely car chase sequence at which some may roll their eyes. There are also, however, several running jokes throughout the movie which are sure to get a good chuckle.

Hence, if you are a fan of Tina Fey and/or Steve Carell, along with their recent work, you will probably like this film. There is nothing new, but it is certainly still worth a good laugh.