This film depicts the feeling of ambiguity that was generated around the hysterical mourning for Diana Spencer. It also suggests, correctly,in a powerful way, that the impact that public opinion had which forced the Royal's response, the demand for a public display of emotion, had a fundamentally debilitating effect on people's views of the Monarchy. That the Queen actually gave the public address as her own decision, rather than from the advice of Tony Blair (as suggested in the film), would be more consistent with reality then this film. Of course the Prime Minister would never offer such advice nor would the correspondence between the Queen and the Prime Minister ever be divulged. Firstly, such a suggestion would pressure the Queen to be political, and secondly, no correspondence between a monarch and a Prime Minister concerning a fundamental issue of constitutional duty would be divulged because it would violate state protocol (its something for historians 200 years from now to read about).  I lived next to Hyde Park in a University of London hall of residence when the events this film  depicted actually took place, there were plenty of people who went to the park because they were mystified by the outpouring of emotion.  What this film does show very bluntly is how the population forced a change in Royal protocol.  The flying of the flag at half-mast, the intermixing between the crowd and the Queen. In the scene depicting the intermixing there is a sound over from a TV news broadcast saying that this hadn't happened since the celebration of the end of the second world war. That suddenly said it all for us who were there but skeptical.  This nothing of a woman, Diana, that everyone had read feelings and emotion into, forced the Monarch to do something that hadn't been done since the end of WW2, and then in celebration.  Well, I guess the death of Diana was exactly the same as a war that killed 50 odd million people, wasn't it? I guess flying the flag at half mast was correct after its role for centuries had been simply to denote the presence of the Monarch. What is implied in this movie is exactly what has happened in Britain since the Diana event: the monarchy, the constitutional symbol of Britain, has diminished in significance in people's minds and people have forgotten about Diana.  The Queen's instincts to remain aloof were correct. Her action, forced on her by a mob of morons who were boobyed by Diana's death, has helped undermine the British sense of self. In these days of economic problems, the Queen is no longer someone beyond politics and  worldliness to look to for comforting support. Was it worth it?