A great concept. A great cast. Great Singers. Unfortunately for us this movie yields only fair to middling results.

The storyline was underdevoped and the characters too one dimensional for me. Donnie McClurkin's character was pointless. I wish more emphasis was put on the character played by Aloma Wright. She is a very good character actress (in comedy as well as drama). Her character seemed to be the moral conscience of the plot line. We needed more of her. She was the best of the cast even with ther limited role.

Boris Kodjoe is good as the lead character. His performance was superior to anything he did on Showtime's Soul Food. Idris Elba was very good as the preacher with an ego gone awry. He could have used a juicier part.

The cameos were interesting though not really exciting. Hezekiah Walker, Yolanda Adams and Kirk Franklin and Fred Hammond were useful for drawing gospel music lovers into the theatre but their presence in the film and suprisingly so their musical renditions fell a little flat. The preaching by Idris Elba was stilted and not authentic. When He spoke it reminded me of his dialogue line to Boris Kodjoe's character; "Why don't you leave church business to church folk."

Am I alone or did Omar Gooding (playing David Taylor's manager get on your nerves? I wanted to scream at the set; "Would you PLEASE shut up and sit down! He was so annoying. In fact alot of the dialogue seemed stereotypical and trite.

I found one scene particularly funny. Remember the scene in which David goes to speak to his deceased father and begins to cry and pray and surrender his will to God? He turns around after he hears his manager tear up a contract behind him but didn't hear the great big hummer pull up being him? I laughed again.

Don't get me wrong, really I liked the movie in several aspects. Visually it was appealing. It was also wonderful to see a movie with a black cast that did not focus on sex, promiscuity, gangs or violence. For that I give the writer(s), producer and director high laude.

The ending seemed abrupt and unfinished and suprisingly like an old Girlfriends (UPN) episode I saw. Joan Clayton and her girlfriend were feuding. They end up at church on a Sunday morning and sit on different pews as the listen to the strains of Donnie McClurkin sing. All of the years of conflict and difficulty were washed away by a gospel song. They proceeded to the altar to cry and hold hands as the gospel music swelled and then faded. Once again, all is right with the world.

This movie should be spun off into a miniseries on HBO, SHOWTIME or BET. It'd be a hit. More time and more spontaneous musical performances were needed to put this over the top.