The premise of this movie was mildly entertaining, and if you can suspend your skepticism, you can get through 95% of the movie without losing interest or getting turned off....then you hit  the ending.  But more about that later.

!Spoiler Alert!

Amanda Seyfried plays Jill Parrish, a young woman who was kidnapped, held against her will, terrorized and managed to escape.  They never found the perpetrator.  At first everyone is sympathetic, but as the investigation goes on and no evidence or kidnapper is found, everyone including the police starts to doubt Jill, thinking that she just had a mental episode and imagined the whole thing.

Then, several years later, Jill wakes up to find her sister gone.  There's no real evidence of foul play, nothing terribly suspicious and yet we see Jill immediately freak out and become convinced that her sister has been kidnapped by the same man who took Jill all those years ago.  This is the first place in the movie that you're asked to just go with it and not to over-analyze.  Because in truth,  Jill's extreme reaction doesn't make a lot of sense.  The writers could have at least had Jill wait a whole 24hrs before she freaks.
No one believes Jill when she says her sister has been kidnapped, and she decides to go off on her own and find out what happened to her sister.  At this point she begins to follow a serious of bread crumb like clues that are so obscure and far-fetched that it's hard to keep your mind from shifting into total skepticism.  Again, the movie is asking you to suspend logic and just play along.  Because not only does Jill discover and recognize all these obscure clues that only she can see and understand, but we're also supposed to believe that the kidnapper is leaving her these clues to "lure her in".

Up until this point, I played along, just as the writers and directors expect us to.  Most of the logic in the movie didn't make much sense, but it was entertaining enough to keep the viewer going along.  But then we come to the movie's conclusion and I was left totally bewildered as to why the writers would end the movie in this manner.  In the conclusion, Jill confronts her kidnapper.  After a struggle, she has him trapped in a deep pit in the woods; he's injured and he's trapped, so there's no way he could get out.  Does Jill call the police and say "See!  Here's the kidnapper, I was telling the truth!"  That would certainly have been the logical action.  But instead Jill pours gasoline on the man, sets him on fire, and watches him burn and scream.  Then she hides it from the police and tells no one.  It was a jarring ending that totally destroyed any sympathy or likability for Jill's character.  I think the writers were intending it to be a sort of "woman of power retribution moment", but they totally missed the mark.  It made Jill a monster.

One problem is that the kidnapper - the antagonist of the story - is never really very scary.  Even with the flashbacks of when Jill was kidnapped, the kidnapper never came off as a cold-blooded monster.  And so when Jill destroys him in the end, instead of sympathizing with her act of retribution, we're horrified by it.

On the whole, I would give this movie a solid C.  If the ending hadn't been so out of sync with the rest of the movie, it would have scored higher