First, keep this in mind: NONE of these Classics--"Casablanca," "Gone With the Wind," etc.--can ever live up to the praise that has been heaped onto them over the decades.  So to say that "The Maltese Falcon" was not as good as I was hoping it would be is really nothing against the movie.  When watching any of these old classics, you just have to banish all thoughts of its "epic greatness" from your mind and just watch and judge it like any other movie.

Overall, this movie is good fun, but the more serious scenes don't hold up so well.  By now, all of its plot twists have been used in so many mystery stories that they probably won't affect you.  You know from the start that the beautiful women is more dangerous than she seems, that the detective will outsmart the villains, and that someone is going to be murdered.  But what remains original about this movie are its characters, played by actors who no one can replace.  Anyone who is a fan of Humphrey Bogart, Peter Lorre, or Syndney Greenstreet MUST see this movie.

I'll focus on the bad news first; like I said, the serious aspects of the movie fall short, at least for a modern audience.  Not only is the story predictable to us, but a lot of the serious parts just aren't written or played well.  The movie never shows us anything positive about Mary Astor's character Brigid, so the love story between her and Sam Spade (Bogart) comes out of the blue, and makes no sense.  Astor's acting is so over-the-top for most of the movie, that the romance also comes off more often as cheesey and annoying, then emotional.  This does change at the end of the movie, as her character suddenly begins to be honest with Spade, and you realize that she was hamming it up earlier because her *character* was hamming it up. But still, she could have played things a bit better, earlier in the movie.  Another thing that falls short is the villain, Gutman (Greenstreet). We're never shown what it is that is supposed to make him so threatening; you never see him hurt anyone, or even pick up a gun to threaten anybody.  All he does is sit there and talk.  Bogart plays a great protagonist, but with such a weak antagonist and love interest, he might as well be directing his wit and toughness at a wall.

Most of the best characters are the minor ones.  Peter Lorre is priceless as the ambiguously gay Joel Cairo.  Elisha Cook Jr.'s emotionless assassin is a good character.  And Sam Spade's loyal secretary Effie (Lee Patrick) is a much more relatable and impressive heroine than his love interest Brigid.  While the more serious scenes aren't so good, the humorous scenes hold up wonderfully, thanks mostly to these three characters and actors, and Bogart. Pretty much any scene in which Spade is interacting with Cairo, Wilmer (Elisha Cook Jr.), or Effie is fun to watch.

I think a modern audience might find sympathy where the movie didn't originally intend for us to.  While the scenes between Brigid and Sam didn't affect me (or some other viewers, from the sound of these other reviews), I had a lot more sympathy for Joel Cairo, Wilmer, and Effie, due to their social disadvantages.  I couldn't help but wonder how a gay man and a socially challenged man wound up as criminals, in a society that probably wasn't too kind to them.  Seeing Effie trying to warn Spade and do all she could to help him, in her limited position as a woman in the 40s, I could feel her frustration.  These things might actually make the movie more interesting for a modern audience, even if it probably wasn't what the director intended.

Overall, "The Maltese Falcon" is fun and interesting.  Just don't go in expecting to be emotionally blown away, like with "Casablanca."