Firstly i would like to apologize for my spelling, I know it is bad and I don't have a dictionary with me.  My review is, more or less, based on my Laserdisc copy of the restored version of the film that was released about 10 years ago and it is in widescreen letterbox format.  If this DVD version is anything like the Laserdisc, I can advise you right now without any doubt, to buy it because not to would be denying yourself special treasure and treat.
I won't bore you with what has been said before in other reviews about the excellent photography, acting, score, and costumes which are all true. I will add that this film was originally shot in cinemascope and that director William Wyler had used every inch of the screen to tell the story.  This means that there are many scenes that are totally destroyed when viewed in the standard pan and scan format of the old fashion standard television sets. I will give you two instances. When viewed in the standard format, when Ben Hur has the argument with Balistar while Jesus is giving the Sermon on the Mount, the long shot just shows Ben Hur just walking away with Jesus's head acting as a wipe as the pan centers on Ben Hur, but in the format that it was meant to be seen, Jesus's head is in the center foreground, stationary, and turns slightly as his gaze follows Ben Hur as Hur walks across the background from the extreme left to right of the screen. Another scene that gets destroyed in the standard pan and scan format is the scene where Hur hides behind a boulder while Hester enters the cave of lepers.  In the right format, you actually see him agonise behind the boulder when he discovered where his mother and sister are.  Plus the nativity scene is greatly enhanced by the cinemascope format where you don't see the holy family until the slightest of move by the camera. Many more scenes are just not the same in the pan and scan standard format.  So much more is seen in the widescreen.
Also, I believe one of the best and understated special effect ever done is the Star of Bethlehem. I marvel every time I see it.  It was beautifully done.
Lastly I would like to add some trivia to this.  In the race scene, when the chariot runs over the crashed chariot and flips the diver over in front of the chariot and the diver has to climb back over into the chariot, that was not a stunt. That was a real accident and the stuntman (who was the son of the man who did the famous drag under the stagecoach in "Stagecoach") is really climbing back in to save his life. Secondly, if you are a fan of director Sergio Leone ("The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly", "A Fistful of Dollars", "Once Upon a Time In The West", "Once Upon A Time In America" and many others), he was secound unit director on this film.  Lastly, as I understand it, the original silent version is included on this disc.  That is good because it was during the filming of that version that a standard practice of filming action races was set.  If the disc has commentary on the silent version, then check out how they did it, the answer is something else.
I plan on buying this disc.