I am sorely disappointed in the extras on the 2-disc edition. (I'm not going to comment on the movie itself - you know already if you liked the movie well enough to buy the DVD!)

The extras menu is a little difficult to read. Quite pretty, to be sure, but not everyone has a 50" HDTV, and not all fans are young with great vision. Some of us are adults who need glasses and spend moderately on technology ;) Clearer text next time.

I can't get the computer-based items to work (either the interactive ROM stuff or the "Digital Copy"). All the content is locked up in DRM, and for some reason, my Windows Media Player *can't* upgrade its security and is giving the vaguest of error codes as to why.  So I apparently won't be seeing these items anytime soon. (FYI - if you send an e-mail to WB about problems with the Digital Copy download, you will receive a long auto-reply e-mail that refers you back to their support page. So helpful.)

The additional scenes are interesting - but not interesting enough to make up for the lack of cast and director interviews or outtakes.

I saw the documentary on A&E already.  And where is the HBO "First Look"?  They are usually more fun, if shorter and less content-heavy. I am also puzzled - if you're buying the 2-disc edition, aren't you probably enough of a Harry Potter fan that you know the history and foreshadowing that ties this movie into the overall story arc anyway? Couldn't WB have put something more directly related to the movie there instead of this filler?

I liked the "Trailing Tonks" extra, but I wish there had been more content involved. It's nice to see the behind-the-scenes stuff, but she didn't cover any production concepts in depth.

While I found the "Magic of Editing" extra interesting, the game at the end provided me with another little lump of frustration. I really wasn't interested at trying my hand in editing at the time, and there was no obvious way to exit back to the menu - pressing the menu button on my DVD player told me the action was blocked! I had to use the arrows on my remote for a while to find the right hot-spot.

Interestingly enough, I bought my copy at a Target store and received a "bonus" DVD on building the sets. I haven't watched it yet, but why couldn't WB just put all the extras on the second disc and let everyone see all the bonus material?  That's why you pay extra for a 2-disc DVD set!  Not to mention - if you received this as a holiday gift, then you had no control over where the DVD was purchased.  So if you're lucky enough to have a friend or relative shop at Target THEN you get the bonus material?  That doesn't really seem right.

Bad show, Warner Bros. Really bad show. What happened to all the great extras like the ones for the previous four movies? Next time, I'm waiting and reading message forums and reviews before I bother spending extra on extras that are barely worth the time.