This movie has an important place in cinematic history, as the reviews make clear.  There are too many lengthy shots of actors and actresses trying to look tormented or blissful.  Apparently this was considered effective at the time, and perhaps it was more effective then than it seems now.  But this "bad acting" is really a fault of the director and the script itself, as usual.

We learn from the extra features that the young Gore Vidal rewrote part of the script.  This does explain something.  Compare the initial reunion scene between Messala and Ben-Hur to the same scene performed by different actors in the screen test.  The screen test does not suggest an "emotional relationship," as Vidal put it, between the two characters.  The movie appears to be Lew Wallace as re-interpretted by Gore Vidal.  I had not seen this movie before getting this DVD; and if I had known that Gore Vidal had had a hand in the script, I would have waited for yet another remake of the movie at least.

I have not read the novel, but the story seems to be good.  As presented by the movie, it would have been better without Gore Vidal's influence.  The dialogue is weak, although the indirect treament of Jesus' preaching seems just what is called for.  The miracle at the end is not implausible, but it is novelistic, not scriptural.  The movie is thought to have a Christian theme, but Jesus' Resurrection is conspicuously not indicated plainly, exactly when it seems that a Christian perspective would call for such an indication.

Movie makers have something to learn about representing antiquity if they care about historicity.  "Grandeur" was very exceptional.  Things in the ancient world were generally scaled small, to the human, not everywhere crummy, but hardly impressive.  Pompeii shows how the ancient Latins painted grandiose scenes on the walls of small rooms.  They imagined more grandeur than they could make real.  Articles available then -- cloth and clothes, spoons, combs, nails, weapons, etc. --  were costly and rare, entirely handmade, until historically recent times; and the means for making them -- kilns and looms, for example -- would have been a little more in evidence than they are in the movies.