Story: 2.5/5. There really is no story. It's another one of those harem type anime where the guy is the only if not few guys in a school of girls. Though I would recommend this over Maken-Ki, this show does not have much depth into it and leaves many things unexplained. It would be a given that the manga explains more considering what has and hasn't been covered in the anime series.

Characters: There will be a couple familiar voice actor/actresses here and there, such as the childhood friend of the main protagonist, who also voices a main heroine in Seitokai Yakuindomo and a handful of others. There's also some generic characters such as a chinese girl who has the tiger/cat tooth sticking out, which shows a bit of a peachy and cute side. A Natzi/german military girl, I can't dive too much into that yet. Another is a class representative, also blonde from a rich family, also another stereotype, and has a more tsundere type character. A few anime shows are following this format, along with the childhood friend more likely being more tomboyish and try to be perfect at everything and less reliant on our male character. I would say most people would pick this anime because they either have low standards, or because they simply love the characters. If you are buying this because you like Char, you are not alone and yes she is arguably the most popular of the fanbase as there's already trading cards made last year.

Animation: Decent/So So

DVD Details:

Languages: The Format is Hybrid, to those who don't know what that means, if a DVD has a Hybrid format, it means it carries both English Dub (English Voice Acting) and Japanese. New DVD's are coming with the feature where you either turn on English (typically without subtitles and some japanese text in the background of a scene does Not get translated), or with Japanese language with English subtitles and may or may not translate background text.

Packaging: I have yet to see it but I plan on preordering this anyways. I must warn the audience however.

WARNING: It does matter who the manufacturer/publisher is because it is the publisher who determines the quality of dvd covers. For example, Funimation released Shuffle! which is 4 DVDs. When opened, the inside also has art and the dvds are in their respective slots on either side of the dvd holders in one dvd cover. Sentai Filmworks, which is recently releasing DVD titles, (from my experience because I have bought Clannad and After Story and maybe one other title) have made a disappointing packaging. Firstly, the cover is too plain and simple. Secondly, when the dvd cover is opened, typically the inside of the case may be a bit flimsy, and so are the holders for the multiple dvds or single dvd. If you have a case for say Clannad, all 4 DVD's are placed on top of each other in one slot and the owner will panic because there is difficulty in getting the DVD out and its a pain to move 2-3 discs to get to the bottom and wondering if the bending of the DVDs (even a little) may damage and bend the dvd's permanently.

But I digress, if you are a fan of IS then go ahead and make the purchase, seeing how there may not be another publisher. I have not yet confirmed what the BD will be like but the BD covers generally are the same and should be much better compared to standard (lower than standard from Sentai Filmworks).

If you haven't figured it out yet, the publisher of Infinite Stratos is Sentai Filmworks, so you should be warned for their quality for packaging. However, there are other reasons why you should buy this dvd!

Extra Features! WOOHOO!

Contains episodes 1-12 plus the Encore OVA episode and a bonus music CD (most likely not a soundtrack but perhaps Singles Album or Character Song Collection, whether this is Eng or Jap has yet to be confirmed).

Special Features: Commentary, Behind The Scenes, Interview, Radio IS, Clean Opening Animation, Clean Closing Animation.
(See that? You get Commentary And Behind the Scenes And Interview AND radio talkshow! Now if this was all in Japanese this would definitely be most pleasing because in interviews/behind scenes/and especially commentaries which are becoming very popular, you get to hear the life of certain actor/actresses in the studio, or unlike in many western commentaries, instead of talking about merely the characters, the japanese features give a much more in depth/detail of level of understanding and background of characters that English Dubs hardly/never do. Other themes that actors/actresses are aware or learned from the director and sometimes gossip of a sequel or other spoilers in the same series may be mentioned.

Despite whether the packaging may or may not be satisfactory, this DVD box definitely comes jam-packed with a decent amount of extra features! And all for the price of 35.99 on rightstuf! Oh, and if you read this far congrats because I gave you the name of a site where you can buy anime much cheaper than here. (rightstuf has one f)