First saw this flick back in the 70s when it was featured on a late night show called &iexcl;°Horror Incorporated&iexcl;±.  I loved it then but more than two decades later, the film seems rather pathetic although still fun to watch.
If you&iexcl;¯re into cheesy yet fun 50s sci-fi thrillers, this is one movie to add to your collection.  Capitalizing on the popularity of &iexcl;°Them&iexcl;± released a year earlier, it is a tarantula this time that is exposed to radioactive material that somehow causes the spider to grow to gargantuan proportions.  Like many vintage sci-fi movies, viewers need to suspend their disbelief to enjoy the film but this one in particular makes it quite a challenge.
Leo G. Carrol plays distinguished biochemist Professor Deamer who lives like a hermit in a remote area outside a small Arizona town developing a synthetic nutrient out of a radioactive isotope.  While giving a brief tour of his home laboratory facilities to the town doctor Dr.Hastings (John Agar) and his newly arrived graduate assistant Stephanie (&iexcl;°Steve&iexcl;±) Clayton (Mara Corday), Deamer proudly touts this radioactive swill as the answer to world hunger.  Indeed, his laboratory animals from rabbits to monkeys exhibit fast growth rates in his experiments.  There&iexcl;¯s just one problem.  The isotope is unstable and unpredictable causing death in some animals.  As &iexcl;°Steve&iexcl;± confides to Dr. Hastings, they must solve this problem before they can ever experiment on a human.  (Duh! And to say nothing of the ethical issues this would raise.)  This of course, doesn&iexcl;¯t dissuade his previous assistants who were impatient enough to try the formula for themselves. (Damn the rats and monkeys! It&iexcl;¯s got to work.) They subsequently contract a rare degenerative disease that disfigures their faces and bodies.  Despondent and angry, one of the hideous assistants survives long enough to attack Deamer in his laboratory and forcibly give him an injection as well.  The ensuing scuffle causes a fire and damage to the facility enabling an abnormally large tarantula among the specimens to escape into the desert and wreak havoc throughout the county.
Finally, the plausibility of the film&iexcl;¯s premise is further belied by the fact that a tarantula&iexcl;¯s body structure couldn&iexcl;¯t possibly support its own weight at such a size.  Volume is cubed so the weight increases at a rate much faster than the size.  
Scientific inaccuracies aside, the scenes of the tarantula legs poking out and climbing over distant hillsides are unforgettable as are the accompanying musical scores.  This is certainly an entertaining and fun film even if only for laughs at times.