The Set-Up: Sophie (Amanda Seyfried), a fact-checker for the New Yorker and her fianc&eacute;, Victor (Gael Garc&iacute;a Bernal), a budding restaurateur (two jobs that, apparently, pay much more handsomely than I would have guessed), go on a "pre-honeymoon" to Verona, Italy. There, Victor immerses himself in meetings with wine and food vendors he hopes will become his suppliers and Sophie, left on her own, discovers a group of women who answer love letters left at the home of Shakespeare's tragic Juliet. Invited to join these women in their work, Sophie discovers a letter written some 50 years earlier and pens an answer to it, which brings the letter writer, Claire (Vanessa Redgrave) and her grandson Charlie (Christopher Egan) to Verona. There, Sophie, Claire and the argumentative Charlie meet and, over Charlie's objections, decide to seek out Lorenzo Bertolini, Claire's lost love. Rather than (sensibly) making a series of phone calls, they choose to pay personal visits to each of the Lorenzo Bertolini's Sophie (using those fact-checking skills) was able to find within a certain radius of Verona. This calls for a road trip.

Before its release and in many reviews, much was made of the scenery in the film; I seem to recall one reviewer going so far as to call it a character. And I'll agree that there are certainly some stunning shots, particularly of the countryside. On the other hand, I found myself disappointed that we did not see a lot more of Verona and Siena. The glimpses we got of the cities were so wonderful that I found myself longing to see a lot more of them - and a lot less of the interior of the car.

Letters to Juliet is utterly predictable. I honestly felt like I could have outlined nearly every scene just from seeing the trailer, and a good chunk of the dialogue, too. I will say, though, that the predictability wasn't excruciatingly annoying and, at the film's end, I didn't leave the theater feeling like I had just wasted two precious hours of my life. Hence the "mostly harmless" in my review title.

While I could argue that I actually found the vibrantly-portrayed Victor (the fianc&eacute; whose passion for food and cooking made it possible for us to like him even though he was cluelessly neglectful of his bride to be), the most interesting character in Letters to Juliet, the film is most definitely Redgrave's. Claire's search for her Lorenzo is poignant and the enduring passion between them is handled with sweetness and a lovely delicacy. Her search also provided what were, for me, the two best things in the film: humor as each new Lorenzo was found and checked off the list and some genuine suspense as I waited for Franco Nero to finally make an appearance so that I could see how well the actor had aged. (The spoilery answer? Very well, indeed.)

My final verdict? Mildly diverting, but not a film I will long remember nor one I would watch again. Even, you know, for Franco.