When I saw the movie trailer for Event Horizon my jaw hit the floor. Finally, in the land of overpopulated and cheesy slasher flicks comes a real sci-fi horror. The Alien trilogy has to be my favorite of all trilogies. I worship the first movie and love the second. Sci-Fi horrors are what I love to see the most because they combine what you would expect in a sci-fi movie but with the twist of a horror. Even though Event Horizon can be compared to Alien because they both include a derelict spacecraft, they are actually quite different. In Alien the audience was meant to be scared of the actual alien itself, not the ship. Although the ship itself was quite freaky, it just had to be. The audience would then fear the Aliens even more because such a scary looking ship was their origin. In Event Horizon though its the actual vessel were meant to fear, a non-living object (so we assume...). The Event Horizon on the outside has a very similar appearance to a Klingon vessel from Star Trek. A large front hull with a narrow and long corridor connecting the ship to its end. Still, even though the Event Horizon's outside appearance isnt too striking, its what surrounds it that increases its fear factor. The atmosphere where its floating isnt exactly happy looking. Dark, gloomy looking clouds and constant lightning surround the Event Horizon. Notice how almost every time something bad happens theres an outside shot of the ship where you can see a few bolts of lightning in the background followed by thunder. Once the viewer is taken inside the ship he or she can appreciate the artistic work that was involved in designing it. The inside of Event Horizon has everything to make the audience fear it. Its dark, very quiet, lifeless, and just creepy looking. Whoever designed the "heart" of the ship where the gravitational rings are is just brilliant. The core looks simply awesome. The large dome for a room is lined with dark pointy objects. The blood on the walls and windows added a nice touch to the bridge of the ship. Again the inside appearance plays a major role in how the audience portrays the entire ship. If it looks threatening then the audience will feel unwelcome. This movie wasted no time and went straight to the good stuff. Most viewers knew what the ship was all about from the trailer atleast, so cutting right to the chase was expected. Once the crew docked onto the Event Horizon it wasnt long until bad or creepy things started happening to each one of the crew members. What I really like about this movie is Sam Neil's appearance. Hes really a natural when it comes to acting. After seeing Jurassic Park one wouldn't expect him as being violent or the "bad guy". The one movie where he played a "bad guy" role in was The Omen III. A rather bad movie when it comes to really seeing what Sam Neil's capable of. In Event Horizon hes first seen as an intelligent doctor who takes great pride in the ship he created. As the movie moves on and further reaches the end hes seen as a person of pure evil manipulated by his own creation. When Dr. Weir was missing his eyes and especially towards the end when his entire face is covered in slashes he truly looks scary. Heres a character that transforms from the commonly known "know it all" doctor to someone least expected from Sam Neil. His voice adds such an impact on the overall character of Dr. Weir. I could close my eyes and listen to him say "You cant leave, she wont let you" or "Hell is just a word, the actual place is far worse" and get a chill down my spine just by the way he sounds. I knew Sam Neil had the potential for an evil character and Event Horizon suites him perfectly. Overall I really enjoyed this movie. It satisfied my interest for sci-fi with the excitement of being scared at the same time. Forget cheesy movies about haunted houses or college kids running for their lives, Event Horizon is far better.