One might nitpick about how this or that bit of the original novel out to have been left in or taken out, but it is, on the whole, a good adaptation.

Unlike some authors of 'social' novels, Jane did not invite us to become angry about unjust social situations, nor did she counsel us to resign themselves; she simply presented them and left us to draw our own conclusions.

The Dashwood girls had to get married.  In Britain of that time, that was all that they could do.  Their father's estate was entailed, which means that most of it automatically passed to their half-brother.  Women in that time were not educated beyond basic literacy and numeracy, and most well-paying occupations were closed to them by either law or custom.  In a Catholic country (say, Spain or Italy) young ladies in the Dashwood girls' position would have had the option of becoming nuns, but in Protestant Britain even that was not an option--it was marriage or nothing.

Did Jane's unpitying, but nonjudgmental, portrayal of this situation lead to the nascient feminist movement of the later 19th century, which saw educational and occupational opportunities for women open up and legal reforms that enabled women to control their own money and property?  Perhaps, indirectly; certainly her novels brought the situation to people's minds, and probably got them thinking about it far more than more polemical writings would have.

I did think that the one sister's mooning after Willoughby got a bit tiresome, but I think it was supposed to be.  And, after he lead the other sister on so much and then allowed her to think that he'd married someone else (the someone else married his brother--nice bit of casting, the actor who played the brother did look enough like Hugh Grant to be his less-handsome brother) and then came calling to propose that she should have taken one of the pewter candlesticks on the table and whapped him upside the head with it before accepting the proposal.

My father has four sisters, and says that the way the girls bickered and fussed at each other is absolutely on target.

As for some of the actors/actresses being too old for their parts, remember that in those days people didn't live as long as they do now.  In terms of life-stage they were right; a modern performer of the chronological age of the book's characters would be too immature.

My main quarrel with this movie was the music.  Not the music itself, which I liked (it was specially composed, but sounded period; the main theme, for example, sounded like a snippit from a Beethoven piano concerto) but the performance.  The piano used was obviously a modern instrument; pianos of the period had a thinner, lighter, sound than modern ones do--the fortepiano was marked, after all, as an enhanced harpsichord.  To see the characters playing on little spinnets and hearing a Boesendorfer was a bit disconcerting.