Predator, in my opinion is the best action/sci-fi movie ever made. It was made in 1987, but looks like it was made in the late 90's. I don't own Predator on any verison, but I've seen enough to know its great. This is how the story runs down:

Arnold and his band of comanndos infiltrate Central America to look for lost soldiers. They get into a few battles with gurilleas but soon find out their friends are dead and skinned alive. And then of course they find out, they're not alone(besides other gurilleas). An alien form a different planet has come to earth to hunt worthy opponents for sport.It has all sorts of weapons and its invisible. It also has infared vision(which looks really cool form the Predator's point of view). Arnold's squad then gets picked off one-by-one by an unknown foe. First Hawkins gets slaughtered, blood everywhere(especially on some hostage woman form the country). He's dragged away into the trees and later his friends find nothing but a gory torso(if that). Next Ventura(thw white guy with the gatling gun) gets killed, something goes right thorugh him and he dies. After that Mr. Rambo (with black hair) stays ont his bridge type thing to comfront the Predator(slashing this chest as a sign of toughness). All you hear is a scream and hes finished. The other two black guys go out to hunt the beast. One gets shot in the head from the Predator's triangular beam, falls and blood just pours all over the ground, dripping off his face). The skinnier balck guy is caught out in the open. The Predator uses his beam and knocks off the guys arm. He yells and watches the Preadtor jump from the tree, run towards him while takin out his metal claws, and just stabs him right in the stomach. That leaves Arnold left (am i forgetting anyone?). He sits up in a tree, preparing his traps, and waits for the Predator. Finally he comes and Arnold gets the crap beaten out of him until the end, which yopu'lkl have to watch for urself it you never saw it.

  Overall, Predator is the supreme guy film of our time. Nothing has beaten it in its genre and nothing probably ever will. Predator remains as one of my favorite movies of all time. Non-stop action from beginning to end. Without Predator, your collection isn't full.