For those of you out there who are curious enough or are die-hard fans of the Friday the 13th series, you are best served to bypass this seventh sequel to the original starring Betsy Palmer.
Although renowned critic Leonard Maltin regards this movie to be the best of the Friday slasher movies, he misses the entire point of the Friday the 13th saga, so have the people who created this movie: All of the homicides took place in and around Crystal Lake as a means of teaching libidious teen counselors a lesson about diligence to responsibility.
What Part VIII delivers is a revived Jason haunting teenage students on a Big Apple-bound cruise ship. He is particularly drawn to a hydrophobic girl. He encounters her as the child-Jason on two different occassions-One when the girl was a child being taught how to swim by her strict, almost cruel uncle, now principal and the other in the present while she's sitting in her cabin. Jason and this girl have one thing in common, a definite fear of water.
This alone could have been an interesting plot device, if the makers of the movie would have added depth. The audience could have seen a new dimension to the Jason character, maybe even empathizing with her and her with him. I don't mean to suggest they would develop a loving relationship, particularly on the girl's part. At least, however, Jason would be perceived as more than a mindless killing machine.
This movie does feature Jason having a minor addition to his personality, however. In two scenes, Jason develops a sense of humor: The high school boxer who exhausted all his efforts to defeat the hulking Jason tells the hockey-masked killer to give him his best shot and moments later, the boxer's head is sent flying; a gang of punks accost Jason, but when he raises his mask, the punks disburst in different directions.
Where did Jason get this sense of humor? The only time, he spends around people is when he's ready to send them into another state of being. Maybe, he harnessed this new characteristic as a means of dealing with all the times he's been "killed" off just to be revived by lightning, by psychic powers and by suspension of disbelief (Hey, I know, no matter how many people I kill, the virgin and/or her boyfriend or her father will kill me, just so I will come back later, I would have to laugh at this bizarre twist of karma).
Despite the so-called leap into making Jason more human-like, the inevitable question arises, what's the purpose of this film? You take a fish out of water, sorry Jason, and you put him in Manhattan for a few precious moments. Why? What does New York have to do with Jason's animosity for overly-sexed camp counselors? None. I believe, I might be wrong, the most telling sigh of what the purpose of this film is comes from the mouths of the characters themselves. In one scene, the hydrophobic girl and her male friend, he might have been her boyfriend but it's been six years since I've seen this film, are running away from Jason when they encounter a New Yorker. The heroes scream, and I'm paraphrasing, someone's trying to kill them... A New Yorker chimes in... "Welcome to New York." The movie makers want to compare a mindless, though partially funny, psychotic killer to a crass, thoroughly compassionless city.
Though I'm not a New Yorker, I find this connection to be disheartening and tasteless. I hope the next time, and there always seem to be a next time, the film makers decide to create a Friday movie, they will, at least try to stay true to the series and save the humor for the comedians.