THE GOOD: As many other reviews have already mentioned, the message is there. Yes, the acting is hammy. Yes, some of the plot points are ridiculous. (There's a particularly grating plot hole regarding a video camera near the end; I won't spoil it.) But the idea is important. I won't say the movie is suitable for teenagers as a way of reaffirming the "be safe on the Internet" message, as they could be put off by either the ending or the terrible acting. But it's good for what it is; it gets the point across, and it does so effectively.

THE BAD: The decision to film everything in a "found footage" style is distracting, and takes away from the rest. With other movies (Cloverfield, The Blair Witch Project, REC [NOT Quarantine], etc.), the premise works; it covers a very brief period of time, in a continuous motion (if that makes sense). But Megan Is Missing attempts to cover a longer period of time, using very short snippets of footage. The constant jumps are frustrating, especially when some scenes are only a few minutes before cutting to black. If this were filmed using a wider variety of sources (the way District 9 combined found footage, interviews, and "normal" cinematography), I feel like it would have been much more effective.

THE TERRIBLE: Jesus Christ, the last 20 minutes. I understand getting a point across, but depicting it in such a brutal and graphic way is completely unnecessary. I found myself fast-forwarding through most of it. It's not excessively gory, but it is disturbing.

There is one other incredibly frustrating aspect about the movie. Twice in the movie, there are cheap "shock" scares. Think those ridiculous screamer videos, where a disturbing images flashes abruptly on screen. Using cheap scares like this detracts from the rest of the movie, on top of ruining the pacing. This movie doesn't feel like a "traditional" horror movie at all. There's no reason why these kinds of scares need to be there.

FINAL VERDICT: It's on Netflix right now, so if you have a subscription, might as well watch it. But don't expect mindless entertainment; although it shares many qualities with B-movies, unintentional comedy is not one of them. It's not exactly deep either, as the characters are portrayed in a very cliche way. And the final 20 minutes are a very jarring contrast to the rest of the movie.