I read the book and immeadiatly wanted to see the movie. I lasted 30 min and had had my fill. In the book the narrator is never named and I suppose you are just to assume being that it is nonfiction that the narrator is the author. The book is written in such a way that you feel as though you are sitting down with an aquaintane or friend who is telling you about his time in Savannah. Rather than letting the stories unfold in the movie they are forced by a main charactor played by John Cusack... its funny because the authors name is John, the charactor playing the narrators name is John and the actor playing the charactor is also John... haha, not really.
Furthermore they slaughter the story which was, in my opinion, mostly just about people; the individuals of Savannah until the murder happens when we sort of zero in on the Jim Williams plot. Up until that point the story is sort of plotless but it holds your attention because of the colorful people you meet. Not only was this set up completely thrown out in the movie but they mess with all the details of the story, changing bits and pieces until it hardly resembles the orginal content.
The last point I am going to hit is the acting. Perhaps if this film was at all believeable I could have sat through it but it was a hot mess! The best acting in the film was done by Cusack but sadly his role was so utterly superfluous it rendered him boring and out of place. Poor Kevin Spacey was trying so hard and I suppose in some ways he did hit the mark, at least in terms of manner, in his portrayal of Jim Williams however his delivery of lines and fake accent were horrible but when compared with Jude Laws portrayal of Danny Hansford, OOPS! I mean "Billy Hanson" (*shrugs* whatever..) Spacey looks like an acting god! Law looks like an absolute fool with a very obvious British accent under a painfully fake Southern one, ridiculously fake tattoos and the sad fact that he is trying WAAAAY too hard! He just cant hide the fact that he is a pretty boy. This was dispicably poor casting!