Where to start, first of all, you should avoid any horror movies that start off with college coeds on a beach in a foreign country, it's a bad omen.  Second, if you plan to make a horror movie centered around a creature you should make the creature more visible.  Third, you should not rely on gore ALONE to make people take notice of your film.
I almost think they should have named this movie "Hostel 3" because the only thing that would pull your attention towards it is the gore that is shown.  The plot is as follows: 4 teenagers and a german back-packer decide to visit a ruin and get stuck there while a plant slowly turns them into gardens.  The creature of film is nothing more than a pile of vines with flowers that slowly infests someone's body or drags them off, albeit slowly.  Nothing in the movie was scary in the slightest, and considering I didn't flinch during Hostel I was not too impressed with this movie either.
I actually see this movie as more of a comedy with gore rather than a horror film, I laughed at a lot of what was said and the ridiculous actions that took place.  The first of which occurs near the beginning when the german falls from the sling that was lowering him into the temple, the med student, without batting an eye quickly says to the girls, "One of you has to go".  Why doesn't either of the men go?  Because they need to man the crank.  There also appears to be a hand job going on, or at least something sexual, during the most inappropriate time.  The worst part is that when everything possible goes wrong, including a death, vines coming to life, vines coming to life then killing and dragging away a corpse, and a short supply of food and water, the group STILL decides to "hang tight" and wait for rescue, meanwhile being surrounded by said killer plant.
This movie doesn't bring anything new to the horror genre, in fact, it probably brings my view of modern horror movies down a few notches.  It wasn't scary, it wasn't gross, it was a waste of time.  It follows the basic formula of kids getting stranded, cell phones having no service, and slowly being killed one by one.  Despite the bad reviews I wanted to see this movie to see a killer plant, but even that was a let down because it looked like anything you would see anywhere in the woods.  If you want to go see another Hostel by all means see this movie, and if you were scared by this, then you're pathetic.