It's an old adage, but with a different twist in the case of "Lifeboat". World War II enemies destroy each other's ships. A Nazi U-boat Captain (Walter Slezak) is rescued by eight survivors on an Allied lifeboat who form a microcosm of American/British society. They befriend the Captain, albeit with some suspicion, only to eventually discover they had every reason to mistrust him. Such is the premise of John Steinbeck's novella "Lifeboat", which Alfred Hitchcock then ingeniously adapted for film.

Imagine a U-boat Captain who has a friendly and helpful demeanour, yet ruthlessly plots his own survival. Is this not the stuff of a genuine adversary? He never reveals the compass he keeps in his possession, thus guiding the lifeboat towards a Nazi supply ship. He goads and pushes injured merchant seaman Gus (William Bendix) overboard while fellow passengers are sleeping, particularly crewman Sparks (Hume Cronyn). He pretends at first to understand only German, when in fact he speaks at least three languages; only an attractive journalist (Talullah Bankhead) is conversant in either language. And he hides food tablets and water from the others. Is this not the worst kind of enemy?

Odd as it may seem, influential critics in 1944 failed to equate the treachery of the U-boat Captain as symbolic of Nazi ideology. Although it received three Academy award nominations, "Lifeboat" was subsequently panned as too soft on Nazism. So reviled was the film, it was banished into virtual obscurity. When it was eventually released on VHS, only a damaged master tape was available. In time an unblemished master was found and used for this DVD issue.

Equally fantastic is the fact that it was filmed in a huge pool set up on a stage. Yet, surprisingly it has the look and feel as though it took place out at sea. Even more amazing is how Hitchcock sustained the suspense for 96 minutes.

In addition to this great film, the DVD contains interviews with Hitchcock's daughter and granddaughter who share their recollections. Steinbeck and Hitchcock scholars add their input into the origin of the story and making of the film. And advertisements, theatrical posters and newspaper articles of the film are likewise included on the DVD.

If you've not seen this Hitchcock film, get it. It ranks among his best achievements.