Please forgive me if these hastily scrawled thoughts on this subject are disorganized; it is only because of the depth of feeling I have for this film. Berlin Alexanderplatz was, as many have said already, an incredible, climactic, mind-bending experience. I bought it on a whim when I had a little extra money in the bank (I got it for $60 lightly used on Amazon) and I don't think I'll ever forget those several weeks of picking up lunch after class, coming back to my dorm, and watching an episode of Berlin Alexanderplatz. This is a labyrinthine film that routinely defies conventional film-watching expectations. When I finished, I was in an absolute daze. It was a true shock to my senses. I then proceeded to watch the interviews with cast and crew (Hanna Schygula's interview is particularly memorable as she mistakes key plot elements involving her own role of the film, which doesn't matter at all as she is a sensational actress, as Fatih Akin's The Edge of Heaven has proved once more) and begin researching the film, its makers and its time period. This film caused me to do copious amounts of research on the Weimar Republic, something I continue to this day. What is so interesting about the Weimar Republic is that it is the closest example we have today of what a society looks like before what might be called, for lack of a better word, an apocalypse. This film is, among dozens of other wondrous things, a vibrant, enigmatic portrait of a unique time, both real and surreal (and in light of what transpired in the times that ensued, surely this is a time which realism fails). The time is fascinating and evoked in a manner as piercingly true as biting your tongue. This is not a film pieced together from other films. This is not a pastiche; this is not Tarantino. This is far beyond such pettiness, a truth all the more dazzling when one considers Fassbinder's youth. This film is not derivative. The film is so achingly original that one perceives it almost as an art form unto itself. This is a film born of a new covenant. It is challenging. It does not categorize easily, nor can it be simply predicted. There is a world, an ocean of life in all its forms, in this film. This is a film that makes us better film viewers.
Berlin Alexanderplatz is one of the undeniably transcendent film experiences I have ever had. There are scores of genuinely unforgettable moments and sequences that add and compound and culminate to make a frighteningly unified whole. It is a tremendous machine of humanity, artistry, and mortality. It is one of the few films that can genuinely, without hyperbole, be called works of genius, films that give so much, films that beg us, compel us to be better human beings, films that challenge our entrenched, uncontemplated sensibilities, enlarge our minds, ensnare our senses, and open the doors of our perception to undreamed of worlds and consciousnesses. Roger Ebert once wrote "A great movie acts like a window in our box of space and time, opening us to other times and other lands. The more windows we open, the better." This film may be the fire escape out of the whole, mad asylum. Or, it might be an open window on how a single man, and his society with him, got in. So, how good is Berlin Alexanderplatz? It's pretty good.