Although I am a big fan of the original "Lost Boys", I went into this movie with a VERY open mind and with no real expectations. I just hoped that the film was, at the very least, watchable. Well let me just say, BARELY. This movie isn't good. Period. It's poorly executed - sequel or no sequel. The pacing is off. The direction is amateurish - like "The Grudge" or "Pulse" meets a bad MTV video. The movie uses gratuitous nudity and language to try and make up for the fact that it sucks, yet it brings out the film's flaws even that much more. The original "Lost Boys" didn't need extreme gore or nudity because it was relying on other things like a good story and good acting. This story is just a rehash of the first "Lost Boys" with a few things switched around. The movie even incorporates lines from the first film, which may have been cool if the movie was good, but since it's not, it comes off as more of an insult.

In the movie, there is a love scene between Reeser and Sutherland that is shot like the Michael/Star scene in the original with the same "Lost Boys" theme song playing. However, the love scene is emotionless. Any vampire could see it's just a bloodless imitation of the thirst-quenching original (sorry, I couldn't resist using some vampy adjectives there). Also, the film's vampire death lore is inconsistent. For example, sometimes when a vampire is killed, it turns to stone. Other times it explodes, turns to dust, vomits gallons of blood -- WTF? Edgar Frog, (played by Corey Feldman) addresses it with the same line from the first film: "No two bloodsuckers go the same way. Some yell and scream, some go quietly, some explode, some implode, but all will try to take you with them". That kind of explains it but no vampires turned to stone or dust in the first one. Since this is a sequel, shouldn't they have stuck to the original? "Death by stereo", anyone? I don't know it just seemed like an excuse to use some CGI.

As for the acting -- the lead actor, Tad Hilgenbrink (who plays Chris Emerson) is horrible -- please don't act again, dude. PLEASE!!! This guy may look like Jason Patrick but he has zero acting skills. Autumn Reeser who plays Nicole Emerson is not much better and is pretty forgettable. Angus Sutherland, who plays the main vamp, Shane, falls really far from his family tree. He possesses none of the skills of his famous father, Donald, or his half-brother Kiefer. What's up with his accent? He's like half-surfer, half-Brit? Very strange. So acting-wise, this movie gets like an F+. That excludes, Corey Feldman, of course, the only ray of hope in the whole mess. Jamison Newlander (Alan Frog) was cut out of the entire film and Corey Haim (Sam Emerson) appears in a 20-30 second cameo in the end credits. Why would they cut Alan Frog out of the story? Jamison Newlander filmed several scenes for this movie and all were cut. Why? He could have been a great addition. In fact, they should have just scrapped the two leads and made the entire movie with Haim, Feldman, and Newlander. In fact, if you like "Lost Boys" (which I'm guessing you do since you're reading this), check out the four comic mini-series, "Lost Boys: Reign Of The Frogs". It tells the story of the original gang between the end of first film and the beginning of this one. It's far more enjoyable than "The Tribe".

Out of everything in this disaster of a movie, I enjoyed Corey Feldman and the Haim cameo at the end. I also liked the alternate endings available on the DVD's special features. Other than that, this movie was a complete letdown and ruined what could have been a successful franchise theatrically or on home video.