Three references came to mind when watching this film.
  The first was the philosophy of David Hume, particularly his idea that one can have no knowledge of ultimate reality. This film, with its hallucinations within hallucinations, asks the question "What would a man do if he couldn't trust his own basic perceptions?". Also, in accordance with Hume's teachings, we (the viewers) are never granted the "reality" of the story.
  The second reference was a popular criticism of Brian Eno. Lydia Lunch said of his music; "...all it is is just something that flows and weaves, flows and weaves...It means nothing." This has been a popular criticism of Cronenberg's as well (in this movie and others), since Cronenberg often avoids conventional plot structure. That his work in this film means nothing, though, is a criticism I dispute. This film is interesting, it is thrilling (Woods' performance is electric). Yes, this film is often visually disturbing, and rarely coherent. But these feelings are the result of seeing events through the eyes of Woods' character, who is just as confused and even more disturbed than we are. I couldn't take my eyes off of this movie.
  The final reference that came to mind was a much more recent film by this film's director called "Existenz". Both films were written by Cronenberg, and he appears to be making all the same points in both. "Videodrome" is the better of the two. It is rawer, cheesier, more visceral. It goes for the throat in a way that Existenz does not.
  And again, Woods is terrific. The nervous energy that is seen in all of his work suits this material perfectly.
  A plot synopsis is unnecessary for this film. The people who are going to like it would have their experience diminished by any attempt at summary. This film is labeled as "science-fiction". But there are things in this film that defy genre. Deborah Harry's sultry performance is one. It stands entirely on its own. And really, your inner-geek has to be in a coma for you to not get a thrill out of lines like "Death to Videodrome! Long Live the New Flesh!!"