Ahhh the 80's, a magical time in which teen slasher films dominated American cinema and everyone wore short shorts.  The label "teen slasher" may not even apply to Sleepaway camp, as the majority of the characters appear to be about twelve years old.  This little rented addition to the genre tells the tale of cousins Ricky and Angela, who are sent to Camp Arawak to experience all those things that categorize summer fun - boating, volleyball, sleeping under the stars, and of course, the terror associated with randomly having a serial killer in their midst.

The acting in Sleepaway Camp is honestly non-existent.  No one actually puts forth any kind of effort in their role, they simply read lines to one another.  It's kind of like watching people reading letters to each other out loud instead of actually mailing them.  This is also one of the most unintentionally funny scripts the viewer will ever have the (dis?)pleasure of seeing rendered on screen.  After a man has been scalded head to toe by a gigantic pot of boiling hot water, the camp owner asks the doctor presiding over the scene "What's the prognosis, doc?", to which the doctor actually replies, "Well, he's burned very badly.  All over.  Mostly on his face."  Wow.  Six years of medical school and yearly salary that probably tops more than most people make in their whole lives just so he can state the blatantly obvious.  Oh, but it gets better!  After a camper meets a watery demise, someone again makes the mistake of asking a person in authority (this time a police officer), "What happened?"  To which the wise old officer responds, "Well, it appears he drowned."

Sleepaway Camp isn't really about killing though, it's mostly about sexual deviance.  The entire plot is based on bizarre, over the top sexual behavior.  Anyone who can't figure out what's going on as soon as the Aunt Martha character appears is just plain blind.  Another reviewer below stated that there isn't any nudity in this film, which was only partially true.  There certainly isn't any nudity of the standard slasher variety, which is to say two oversexed teens taking each other's clothes off for a night time romp.  There is however plenty of fun to be had for the average pedophile, as the viewer will be subjected to the bare naked backside of a tweenager, a full on frontal shot of a little kid's junk(!), and the prominently displayed bulge of everyone in the entire cast, as they are all wearing far too tight short shorts.  All this has just enough connection to the plot to land somewhere in between being mildly amusing or just plain disturbing.  All the gender confusion and sexual undertones did manage to create one very interesting kill at least - a girl is well, "hot curling ironed" to death.  Yeah, you read that right.

The Amazon plot synopsis listed above states "The disclosure of the murderer's identity is the most shocking climax in the history of American cinema."  While it definitely wasn't the most shocking climax in American cinema, it was pretty crazy, and worth watching the rest of the movie for.  The DVD edition also has some director and actor commentary, which is only worth listening to if you want to laugh at someone else's stupidity.  It's quite clear everyone involved in the production of this movie was on some kind of narcotic, from the writer to the actors and all the way up the chain to the director.  This is showcased by some of the things that are said on the commentary, for example "This set was built!", (DUH!  What else would it be?)or my personal favorite, the actress who originally played Angela states quite confidently, "My mom is almost as old as me!".  She should hook up with Brick from the movie Anchorman, as they appear to have a lot in common.

The overall plot of Sleepaway Camp is pretty disturbing, which is a good thing, as that's what horror movies are supposed to do. Unfortunately the incredibly bad acting, ridiculous script, and random underage nudity prevent the movie from actually being labeled as "good", or even "decent", but it does have some camp and humor value.