OK. I am a HUGE fan of Godzilla. I've loved him form an early age (as well as Gamera, but thankfully he's not been trashed er, "remade") I caught a sneak peek of the new Godzilla's form the night before it came out  to the public and almost threw up. The head design is absolutely  ridiculous. But I kept on and started collecting the toys from Taco Bell,  gradually warming to the new form and eventually liking it.  A friend later  invited me to go see it, we did. It was GARBAGE. The plot? stupid. The  acting? horrible. The jokes? Moronic. I went so far as to apologize to my  friend as he hda payed for my ticket. People have argued that the above is  all true of the old Godzilla films. But one thing was missing: Godzilla.  Instead of a fanciful, fear-inspiring creature, New York is assaulted by  Jay Leno the giant iguana (not to insult Mr. Leno) They try the whole  heart-breaking ending bull and fail miserably. The effects, are NOT that  great as happens with CGI. the monster looks horribly fake, which is odd  because it is supposed to be more 'realistic' than the original G, who  looks incredible in the later movies (which I highly reccomend) I think  they should have just renamed the monster in this to avoid the crap they're  getting over it. What basis does it have in the original? sounds more like  a lack of originality. Another matter: The old fisherman or whatever says  "Gojira!" Wow! they used Godzilla's Japanese name! But WAIT! They  didn't research! Gojira means "whale-ape" which someone would  have to be delirious, drugged, AND drunk to mistake the overgrown iguana  for. Nice attempt at tribute but you failed MISERABLY guys. If you want a  movie now, check out the G-Films from Godzilla 1985 on. G-1985 has superb  acting, a great plot, edge-of-your-seat tension and drama, incredible  action, and most of all, the REAL Godzilla, atomic-breath and all. If you  want to see Godzilla in the theaters, wait for Godzilla 2000 which is a  Toho-made G-film, released in Japan in December and scheduled for release  in the US in the summer of 2000. He IS redesigned but sticks to his roots  (he's green now, has a flatter head more spectacular and irregular spikes)  *stands down from his soapbox*