It's hard to put into words exactly how obsessed I am with this series.

This is the definitive visual history of humanity's greatest war. In the three or so years I've had it, I've watched the whole series--all 26 episodes--about 6 or 7 times. And some favorite episodes, like the one on Stalingrad, I'll watch twice each time around. (It's always excellent, but I particularly like watching that one during breakups or other romantic woes, as it really keeps things in perspective.)

I don't know of any better single-volume documentary treatment of the Second World War; what's more, I don't think there ever will be one. It came out in 1974, long enough after the war that passions had cooled, but soon enough that many of the principals could be interviewed with their memories intact. To see, say, the completely unrepentant recollections of the pilot of the Enola Gay, Paul Tibbets, intercut with first-person testimony from a survivor of the bombing of Hiroshima, or Albert Speer's musings on the bureaucratic squabbling that hampered weapons production in the Third Reich--these are testimonies that could never be replicated.

And the strength of the series is that it views itself that way, as a testimony, a witness to all the dead of the world's most destructive war. It is not just the powerful we see interviewed here, but the meek, the lowly--the housewife who survived the siege of Leningrad, the Britons who endured the Blitz, the German journalist who watched his countrymen leaping into burning water during the firebombing of Hamburg. And we get the firsthand imagery to make this testimony real; we see footage of unresisting Jews being gunned down while they stand on the edge of open graves, and frozen German corpses on the banks of the Volga River after the disastrous battle of Stalingrad, and incendiary bombs setting fire to the heart of Japan's wooden cities. Still, it isn't just gut-wrenching eye-candy; there's real analysis of the big picture to complement the close-ups of the gritty details. Aside from the maps and diagrams, there are sharp, concise observations to make it all make sense; of the German 6th Army's surrender at Stalingrad, for instance, Laurence Olivier's narration intones: "This was no ordinary defeat. It was a catastrophe."

The only serious complaint about this series is in how the episodes are broken down. It's a little Anglo-centric in the time allotted to its various subjects--we probably didn't need a separate episode for the Blitz AND the English home front, for instance, if we're not going to get much of substance on the Yugoslav partisans and nothing at all about the Czechoslovakians who assassinated Heydrich; also, dedicating a whole episode to Burma seems disproportionate, given the relative lack of time spent on other fronts of the war on Japan. But we do at least see a more complicated portrait of the British than we might have gotten; we see both the stoic victims of the Blitz, and the vengeful streak that sought to wreak an Old Testament-style retaliation in turn. "They have sown the wind," British Air Marshall Sir Arthur "Bomber" Harris says in one episode, providing his justification for the RAF's nighttime bombing raids that killed hundreds of thousands of innocent German civilians: "And they shall reap the whirlwind."

This quote gets at what makes this series truly timeless, and worthwhile, despite the quibbles: it resists the temptation to take sides, and instead shows the British as it shows all sides. Rather than making simple judgments, it show that humanity's greatest war also took some humanity from all who fought in it, and--to a greater or lesser extent--everyone ended up as both victim and persecutor in turn.