Tokyo Revelations alone gives this product 3 stars.  This review will be broken into two, review for Tokyo and a review for Spring Thunder.

TSUBASA TOKYO REVELATIONS:

Let me start off by saying I am among a minority of critics that feels the Anime series is a work of misunderstood genius and I'm probably the only one who's tired of the Bee Train haterz because OCD CLAMP fans can't stand anything that's different from the Manga.  That's not to say I don't recognize the flaws in Bee Train's TV anime series, but nothing is with out it's flaws.  With Tokyo Revelations being picked up by Production I.G from BEE TRAIN I wasn't sure what to really expect.

That being said I've always been a long Tsubasa fan more so because I've enjoyed the story telling by CLAMP.  Tokyo Revelations I had mixed feelings going into, on the one hand I was delighted to see another anime adaption, on the other hand I wasn't particularly  looking forward to Production I.G's  new Gothic style.  But still I wanted to see if Tokyo was worth the hype and for the most part it is.

Tokyo was very strange, dark and an extreme departure from the campy and brighter anime series broadcasted by NHK sure enough to please the OCD CLAMP fans.

I want to talk about Nanase (or Aghea) Okawa's writing, which I found to be exceptional quality for her.  Mostly I've known Okawa's screenwriting skills for my guilty pleasure series Cardcaptor Sakura.  Okawa brought out the strong writing that really attracted me to Tsubasa and held me as I read the Manga.  I haven't read since the end of the Ashura Arc (having already seen the Dangerous Race I didn't really want to read it again) anyway Okawa probably brought out the strongest story telling so far of any Tsubasa anime adaption, which something the series writer, Hiroyuki Kawasaki, couldn't quite accomplish  but still managed in spirit.

The dramatic and somber story telling was done in a very stylistic way that I wasn't expecting really.  The writing was action packed and dramatic with out being dark and mopey like other pseudo-Goth animes like Boogiepop or Serial Experiments Lain.  This also includes giving the much left out Sakura more of a central role and a pretty kick-ass story arc later, whereas in all earlier volumes of the manga and anime she has been the classical damsel in distress.  The awakening of the Clones was beyond strange yes, and even a little confusing but again Okawa wrote that in a sense that it was almost like watching a thriller as opposed to a fantasy.

A highly unusual departure and downright scary it blew me away, it was intense and highly packed full emotion.  Overall you may be blown aback unless you just simply like this stuff to begin with.

The new art and character designs is to be expected with a new studio taking over the production, as such I'm not a fan of the psudo-Gothic style of anime, so naturally, I can't say I particularly liked Yoko Kikuchi's new designs.  I did not care for the new animation style, I do want to say that director Shunsuke Tada was at least able to keep it balanced.  He didn't allow it to become overly saturated with blacks and shadows and dull unexpressive character designs and animation as most directors in this style do.  He allowed enough darkness to show a different style and allowed the tone and mood to be set to get us in the new world and not hit us over the head with it.  Tada has an easy style that is again often missed by most in this kind of Genre so my hat is off to him for keeping a relatively easy story line, and decent animation style.  But he dropped the ball in the Music Department overall.

Music wise you'll notice 98% of the music is from the TV series slightly altered.  It's almost appalling that a production company of  I.G's status can't make a slightly more original, original soundtrack.  I'm certainly glad they have been keeping Yuki Kajiura on as Composer since she was previously brought in under Koichi Mashimo's direction.  Whether simply Kajiura was too busy to write new material I don't know but this is one of the reason I find Koichi Mashimo and his company Bee Train to be above the par with most.  All I can say is if you are looking forward to another potentially great score, you'll be rather disappointed as I probably heard 5 new musical pieces including the opening theme and closing theme.  It's almost silly people have complained about repetitive music in the TV series when it's equally obvious in this OAV Series.

However, the opening theme song Synchronicity once again shows off the immense talent Yui Makino has especially when she's working with Kajiura and Maaya Sakamoto delivers a pleasant and well crafted ending theme.  Both Kajiura and Sakamoto are talented writers, and both can do wonders if they are given the chance.

With the up and coming OAD's I really hope Tada get's his act together and starts having Kajiura write some newer compositions.  OAV or no OAV if you have a sequel make some new music, if BEE TRAIN could do it for their small 4 OAV series .hack//Liminality, surely a company like Production I.G can do it too.  (especially the way CLAMP fans have been making IG into a Mecca).

Overall Revelations is worthy of a checkout and a full watch.  How much, is up to you.

----------------------------------------

TSUBASA SPRING THUNDER

Tsubasa Spring thunder is CLAMP's latest installment of their ever ongoing Tsubasa/HOLIC project. Following the exceptional work that was "Tokyo Revelations" even I was beginning to think Production I.G was the better choice for handling future Tsubasa projects.

With the announcement of Spring Thunder it was no surprise the various CLAMP fanatics began jumping for joy and same with some of the fans such as me. Now after watching both episodes, I have to say, this was a real let down.

Tsubasa Spring Thunder is the bad example of what happens when the original creator of the source material comes to write in the adaption. Nanase Ohkawa (aka Ageha Ohkawa) the principal writer of CLAMP, whom I've found to have exceptional screen writing talent handled this script for this as well as "Tokyo Revelations", having taken over from the TV series writer Hiroyuki Kawasaki. Ohkawa crafted Tokyo so well, I would have handed her the Academy Award for Best Screen writing of the year. In the case of Spring Thunder I would easily hand her a Razzie award for the Worst Screen writing of the year.

Ohkawa proves that she and her fellow CLAMP mates are too married to their own story that all they can do is tell an animated version of their manga, basically wasting everyone else's time and production money. Spring Thunder proves to be nothing more than a carrot for the loyal fans who have kept reading through the years while basically saying "piss off" to those who have only followed the anime installments. Having only partially read the manga I was beyond confused. As Spring Thunder doesn't immediately pick up where Tokyo left off.

Production I.G's motto is, " to make anime that stands on its own ground without being an extension of manga." And to me I.G completely threw that motto out the window with this project. The film is cluttered with to many flashbacks to events we haven't seen, and likely never will, and it only leaves the viewer with a real sense of emptiness and endless plot holes that they won't be able to fill unless they claw their way through god knows how many books there are now. At the very least Ohkawa was still able to make a somewhat-coherent screen story that I could follow at the very least. However much of the storytelling is left to be desired.

Equally disappointing was Shunsuke Tada's direction. Tada used way to many cuts and hardly got creative, except with the action scenes. Too often than not we are cut into long and pointless exposition scenes that some of us really just don't care about. I found my self fast forwarding through this more than on the edge of my seat with anticipation of what the next scene holds. And of course Tada follow the old Animation creed of Animation first, Music second. Yuki Kajiura's score is forced into the background quite terribly. Rather than use music to heighten the scene and emotion, Tada makes it feel like it's just playing. As in I'm writing the screenplay my self and the music is just playing as white noise as I work. On the one plus side was he finally decided to use more variety of pieces from the Tsubasa OST archives than he did in Tokyo, where he only seemed to use two pieces ever and some slight ambient noises.

Yoko Kikuchi character designs while not dreadful aren't exactly appealing. That being said I do prefer Bee Train's designer Minako Shiba. The art style is a slab of strangely clashing color pallets dull pastel colors mixed in with dark blacks. Tomoyo is equally unappealing in her design as she looks like she's wearing football gear under her robes. There is no continuity to the visual style of this. It's bright and flowery yet strangely dark, almost filmed like a dark comedy.

The opening animation is just beyond obscure and doesn't set the mood appropriately for this short OAD series. While Maaya Sakamoto is probably one of the best singers from Japan I've ever heard, her themes never seem to ever to match appropriately to anything Tsubasa. Kajiura however has always mastered the theme songs as her ending has fitted a lot more. It's great to hear FictionJunction YUUKA perform yet again.

The overall animation quality is still very well done for this short production and I didn't notice any real problems with the animation. The fight scenes were well crafted and well animated which made for some great footage.

Spring Thunder isn't bad or terrible. It's simply average, boiler plate, run of the mill. It was CLAMP's little present to their die-hard fans. It makes me think they should give it back to series director Koichi Mashimo and just make another season, or at least maybe go to the movie director Itsuro Kawasaki. Any future projects will likely remain as this, a nice bone for their loyal fans only.

Individually I would give Spring Thunder 2.5 stars and Tokyo Revelations 4.5 stars.