Although mildly engaging, `Leaves of Grass' is a bit of an embarrassment for writer/director Tim Blake Nelson.  Yet for attentive viewers, his embarrassment is our gain.

In `Leaves of Grass' it seems Nelson has only tenuous control over his material (not good, as he wrote it), and over the making of  movie itself, even though he is the director.

The central problem is he just doesn't know (can't decide) whether he is making a drama (with perhaps comic moments), or a comedy (with some dramatic elements), and as a result, the audience gets a discordant mishmash which albeit engaging at times, ultimately doesn't hold together.

Although he does a fine job as an actor (providing the film's best performance), the film illustrates that all too common common Hollywood failing: not knowing the material, being unaware of the ignorance, and blithely winging it.  A good example here is in the background of  the character, Prof. Bill.  Does he teach Classics or Philosophy?  Evidently Nelson doesn't get the difference, yet it is important.  And this lack of an "ear" shows again and again, with both character as well as plot.

Talking plot, there are some believability problems here, most essentially with  the core premise: is the drug dealing twin really a calculating murderer who wants suborn his brother's complicity ?

As to individual plot elements, there are numerous gaps.  What's with the orthodontist, why does he go down to Little Dixie to find and confront the twins, what is he looking for?  What's with Prof. Bill selling the hydroponics operation to a drug dealer via a formal business proposal (of all things)?  What's with the content in the scene of mother/son reconciliation?

Ah, but this is a comedy you say, lighten up!

Well, its awfully violent and bloody for a funny movie, but more importantly, why then all the lurking dramatic elements?  Just what is Nelson trying to do by having Keri Russell recite Whitman while gutting a catfish?  What's with Prof. Bill becoming enamored with a facile version of the Jewish concept of `Tikkun Olam' that he learns from the Rabbi?  (From the Hebrew, lit: `repairing the world' - it's used to good effect in `Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist')  What's with the `parallel lines" theory of God?  In all this it looks like Nelson is trying to say something here, perhaps something `deep', but exactly what?

As for character, why does Richard Dreyfus' Pug Rothbaum play this corrupt businessman in such a caricatured, over-the-top manner?  What's with that cover of `Journal of Philosophy'?  Is this a lampoon or doesn't Nelson know what the publication look like?  Why is Marcus Aurelius' name mispronounced; why do we trot out Diogenes at the funeral, and so on?

In short, I think Nelson really doesn't know what he is doing or saying with half of this , (although clearly its all mellifluous to his ears), and he plods on intrepidly, cheerfully, and of course, obliviously.

To his credit, the result is not alienating - actually most of the time the characters are endearing, all of them.  But because the disconnects and visual (and character) construction malapropisms are so glaring, so jarring, the film becomes thought provoking, but not in a good way.

In short, this would be a great "what not to do" movie for film school students, and, as a long time student of film, this is something I am always happy to view.