Filmmaker Takashi Miike makes a lot of movies - 62 total since 1991!, each one weirder than the last.

Unfortunately, this one was a little too weird.

Swaying away from Miike's typical over-the-top action (The stuff you've seen in movies such as Kill Bill's massive fight), he goes for a much more psychotic feel in this film - Unlike any of his work I've seen before - And this will surely turn most viewers off to the film.

In the first 25 minutes of the film alone, you see:

Incest, Blackmail, Graphic sex, Drug use, Prostitution, Family abuse, Nudity (Full frontal, although censored below), Attacks with objects, Intense chool bullying, and Sexual assault.

From that point, it gets much worse as the movie goes on.

The basic story involves a man who used to be a reporter (Or at least tried to be), filming his encounters on the street, hoping to one day become a popular news-anchor. One day, while filming, a group of people physically abuse and humiliate him (All while his cameraman films it), Destined to turn it into a story he submits it to a local station who in turn makes a big joke out of him publicly using the tape.

Now, he's destined to still become a reporter, Carrying a videocamera around with him wherever he goes, filming whatever possible to one day become a news anchor.. No matter what it is.

His son (About 15) constantly beats his mother (The camera-man's wife) while their entire family ignores it. His mother prostitutes herself to afford drug's from the local drugdealer in the park. The son gets beat up, humiliated, and tormented everyday at school, as well as his house. The father decided instead of helping him, he'd rather film everything to hopefully turn that into local news to finally get the job he wanted. Finally, the mans daughter has just moved out of the house and is a prostitute herself (To afford a living on her own), her father even being a customer of hers (And again, filming everything). All while a strange man has moved into their house.

The movie is very intense, and very disturbing in the short time it runs for (Just over an hour and 10 minutes total).

It's the last 20 minutes that turn to traditional Miike-style going completely over the top in a humorous way. There are also a few funny adult jokes within the movie.

The movie is definately not for everyone, including Miike-fans, its not the type of movie that warrants repeat viewings, but if you're not turned off by any of the above mentioned, it is an interesting movie that is much more unique than the norm and I'd recommend it. To anyone else even slightly disturbed by the mentioned above, save yourself the money and pass on this one :)

I personally found it entertaining, but I've been a longtime Miike fan and have gotten used to some of his weirdness. For someone new to his work, I'd recommend purchasing his movie "Ichi the killer" instead, its a much easier film to get into and will appeal to a much larger audiance while having a cult feel to it.