When I read the set list for Madonna's Drowned World 2001 Tour, I, like many others were disappointed.  Where was Like A Prayer? Express Yourself? Erotica? Madonna seemed to have discarded hits for album tracks that would be unfamiliar even to her most casual fan.  Yet, as we all know, it's unfair to judge something without seeing it first.
I was very pleased with Drowned World, but then again I think Madonna is at her most creative when she's on stage.  Unlike so many other performers Madonna is extremely imaginative in creating her live shows.  Of course the set design, costumes and lighting are top-notch.  But that's not what makes this show work; it's the little touches Madonna adds.  Take for example her soulful singing on the acoustic tracks "I Deserve It" and "Gone", which sound rather bland on the album "Music", but resonate on stage.  And what about the Spanish version of "What It Feels Like For A Girl" in which Madonna sings completely in Spanish and dances with a group of women that is both gender-bending and sensual? Fabulous. Then there's the warm version of "La Isla Bonita" where Madonna plays guitar and sings and dances cheerfully with her dancers.  It seems more than ever that Madonna is concentrating on singing her songs rather than dancing and flashy gimmicks.
However the show is not without its' problems.  Some songs seem too short, particularly "Sky Fits Heaven" which is part of the dazzling Geisha section in which Madonna becomes a flying, vengeful Geisha, and the encore of Holiday, which could have been a bit longer.  The cowgirl section doesn't always work.  Human Nature doesn't seem to fit in with songs like "Don't Tell Me" and "Secret".  I think Madonna could have sang "Express Yourself" and/or especially "American Pie".  And what a loss to not hear Madonna herself sing "Don't Cry For Me Argentina" live, especially at this point in her career where her voice has never sounded better.  Hearing the instrumental version is fine, but to not see and hear Madonna re-enact that stellar moment on the Casa Rosada, well, is unfortunate.  I do agree with one of the reviewers who said that some of show's ideas don't always work. I don't think Drowned World is as well developed a show as Blonde Ambition or Girlie Show in terms of its ideas and theatricality, but musically (ie. Madonna's singing and musical gifts), it's just fine.