This, and other old M. Moore works, will get alot of new attention. I hope that those seeing all his work will recognize  his material as extremely well-done propoganda. All his films are strong on emotion and narrow, over-simplified, out-of-context perspectives.

Just one example in this film is the butchering of the rabbit for meat. We're supposed to be shocked by this, as if it were some sort of desperate act of survival. Doesn't Moore know that that's exactly the way we get all our meat? Even if we have LOTS of money? I guess if you do it yourself instead of paying others to do it, it's a sign you're near starvation. I watched my father do exactly the same thing to many rabbits, and we had planty to eat and weren't poor or deperate.

Moore blows by the fact that the economy and jobs are all about change. Did all the residents of Flint just appear there? No. They moved from farms to Flint, and stayed there, for the good paying jobs. And make no mistake --- automotive assembly jobs are among the best paying in ALL of manufacturing. You can accuse GM of downsizing, but not of running low wage sweat shops.

Nothing, repeat, nothing lasts forever. The viability of their old agricultural life didn't last forever and their jobs in Flint didn't either.

In many ways the labor movement is the victim of it's own success. The unions were successful, jobs paid well and the families used the money to send their kids to college so that they wouldn't have to --- you guessed it --- work in a factory! But no one is accusing these families of "abandoning" their Father's employer.

Is the CEO of GM an arrogant, money hungry, indifferent jerk? Probably. But what else is new. He's in charge of a giant for-profit organization -- not a philanthropist. He has jobs, but offers no guarantees, just like the workers who take the jobs make no promises. If you want it, take it. If you can find something better, leave. If you have to relocate to better yourself, do it. Oh, and by the way, quit whining.