We Own The Night starts off with an interesting premise. In one corner, you have Bobby Green (Joaquin Phoenix) living the high life, with a beautiful woman on his arm (Eva Mendes), running a successful Brooklyn nightclub with drug-dealing Russian mafiosos. In the other corner, you have his estranged father and brother (Robert Duvall and Mark Wahlberg), who wear the blue uniform of the NYPD and make their living putting Bobby's friends behind bars. Family drama meets cop drama.

Of course, something bad happens, and Bobby is forced to pick sides. In the moment of truth, does he choose his blood, and the law, or does he stick with the life he has chosen and his new 'family?'

Unfortunately this decision is made halfway through the movie, far earlier than it should have been. The buildup happens too quickly, and then he makes his decision, which also happens too quickly. You don't know WHY he chooses the way he does. And then almost everything that happens after that is ultimately unnecessary. It's a shame, because I was totally engrossed up until that moment when the fateful decision is made. Then the movie just fell apart. The second half of the movie is predictable, yet still manages to be unbelievable. Worse, it feels contrived.

There are good moments. The brothers at each other's throats was one. The car chase in the pouring rain was another. But those moments are few and far between, and the story holding them together is.... well, it is. As in, it exists. But it's neither believable nor good. The decision, the whole point of the movie, happens far too soon, and everything that follows is ridiculous. The ending is abrupt (which is rather ironic, considering that it should have come about a half hour earlier), forced, and completely unbelievable.

Speaking of the ending, it also leaves a ton of loose ends not tied. To name just one, what the heck happens to Eva Mendes? She's a good counterpart to Joaquin, the chemistry between them is great, she's with him through some of his most trying moments, and you get to care about her. Then she disappears and you never see her again for the rest of the movie (except for a blink-and-you-miss-it moment at the end, but wait, it wasn't real anyway). You're given a reason, but it's nowhere near good enough. I don't buy it. That's just bad storytelling. The actors turn in fine performances, but they are wasted on the material, here.

Overall, this isn't a terrible movie. It just could have been so much better. If you want a good cop drama, go with The Departed, or even better, The French Connection. They've both got this one beat by miles.