I've enjoyed more than my fair share of Sundays in suspense about whether the Jets would cover 3 1/2 and so on, so I suppose I had reasonably high expectations for some entertainment when approaching this movie.  Of course, I should know by now, that's a terrible way to approach a 'film' with Matthew McConaughey in it.  It's also not a good way to approach a film that looks on the surface like another chance for Pacino to phone it in and laugh all the way to the bank.

Let's not speak of Rene Russo's typically superfluous and embarrassing presence, ok?, this sentence excepted.

Why is it bad?  Let's start with the acting.  I've known sugared-up 3rd graders with more pathos potential than McC.  He's fair enough during the "aw, shucks" portion of the flick, which survives through much of the first act, but by the times things start rolling and he has to turn into Mr. pr**k it's all over.

He also suffers by comparison to Pacino, or course, at least at first.  After a few minutes on screen though it's clear Pacino's just doing his 'hey I'll see how over the top I can make this' thing that he's been doing for 15 years and the scenes become mutually embarrassing.  And I said we wouldn't speak of Russo.  The deligtfully slimy Jeremy Piven, who's at home in a movie like this, of course is relegated to a C story and about 7 minutes of screentime.

Let's also talk about the script.  I don't expect much from movies like this, but I do expect some exploration of and exposure to the subsection of society they're covering.  But aside from a few rushed conversations in Mc's office we don't really get to the meat of sports gambling, we don't really see everyday gamblers living and dying on every possession like happens, you know, in real life.  I wanted more of that.  Another problem with the story is that it gets wrapped up in a love triangle plot...Hollywood, I know we have to try our best to make this a date movie, but next time at least make the triangle a believable and interesting one.

Is there anything else?  Yeah, but I've already wasted too many words on this film.  Avoid it...