I saw "Lilo & Stitch" in the theatre a week or so after it was released.  Initial marketing from Disney didn't inspire me to want to see it much -- to be honest, it looked like the invasion of "cute Disney sidekick run amok," and the "cute sidekick critter" getting his own movie didn't appeal to me.  The addition, the commercial's exclamation of "cowabunga!" really turned me off.  But then, fortunately, I caught a "making of" short with Chris Sanders.  I decided I did want to see it... and before it left the theatres, I'd managed to drag all my friends to see it with me, too, and recommended it across web boards and email lists across the net.  I saw it seven times in the theatre and pre-ordered the disc as soon as it was available.
The movie itself; well, if you've read the other reviews here, you know the story.  A little alien, who is an illegal genetic experiment by an "evil genius," escapes his captors (who have sentenced him to life on a prison asteroid) and crash-lands on one of the islands of Hawai'i.  There he masquerades as a dog so as to use the little girl who adopts him, Lilo, as a shield to prevent his re-capture.  What he didn't expect -- despite having the brains to "think faster than super computer" -- was that he would come to love his little shield, and want not only to love and protect her from his alien pursuers, but also to be a part of her little family; for Lilo is an orphan, and is as exiled and lonely as he himself is.
That Stitch is a mean and nasty creature is a given; his creator, Jumba Jukiba, says right from the start that his "Experiment 626" was created as a weapon of mass destruction, an unstoppable machine with no other purpose than to destroy.  But Lilo, who herself is not your run-of-the-mill individual (she studies "Practical Voodoo" to punish her "friends," who tease her and exclude her from their play; she feeds a peanut butter sandwich to a fish named "Pudge" once a week because he controls the weather; she made her own doll and because the head is too big, she pretends bugs laid eggs in the doll's ears), knows that her "puppy" is the right one from her.  She tells him right away, "You ruin everything you touch.  Why don't you make something?"
Disney doesn't lay it on too thick with this story, and I suspect that is the masterful hand of Chris Sanders in all aspects of its creation.  It's irreverent, but not annoying; it's sweet but not cloying; it's hilarious and silly, but never stupid.  That this alien who was "never given a higher purpose" finds one "all on his own" is the true moral of the story.  That family is where you find it, and that love is greater than anything, is obvious without being driven home with a hammer.
Lilo is an Elvis fan, so most of the music used in the movie are great Elvis classics -- "Devil In Disguise," "Stuck On You," "Hound Dog," and "Heartbreak Hotel."  My only complaint was using a new recording (by country/blues artist Wynonna) of "Burning Love" over the final "year in the life of Stitch & Family" montage instead of Elvis' magnificent recording, but I guess they wanted a few more original cuts (there is also a cover of "Can't Help Falling In Love" over the credits, as well as two brand-new songs) in addition to the nearly all-Elvis soundtrack... but at least Wynonna kicks it into high gear with her cover, and it's growing on me.  "Lilo & Stitch" is not a musical -- all the music is made to enhance the story only, used only as background. 
The DVD is an overall great buy, as well; containing not only this marvelous film but also a great collection of extras -- lessons in how to do the hula, a study of the islands of Hawai'i, behind-the-scenes with the magnificent Chris Sanders and Dean Deblois, scenes of the vocal recordings with the actors (something that has become my favorite extra on ANY Disney DVD), story and animation development, music videos, and more.  
Perhaps I came to love this movie because I've always been a fan of so many of its elements -- animation, Elvis, science fiction -- or maybe it's because I was the sort of child Lilo was -- fanciful, lonely, and excluded -- or perhaps it's all those things and more.  "Lilo & Stitch" is a gentle, quiet, timeless little movie (note that Lilo listens to vinyl RECORDS, not to CDs, and there's not a computer in their house), as sweet as it is funny.  Disney needs to remember the times when their movies were more about people and problems than hype and selling merchandise (although for the first time since "The Lion King" I went out looking for that merchandise... and found precious little).  Or maybe it's just because it's nice to go to a movie (or rent one, or buy one) and just hear good dialogue telling a good story for a change, and not just special effects and "wow isn't this technologically advanced" CG animation.  It's just a good story, and it's so nice to see.