While other reviews are accurate in the assessment that this is a groundbreaking film for its time in its treatment of the illness of drug addiction, it is unfortunate that the director AND producer, Otto Preminger, lacked the courage to maintain the story in its original, poignant, compassionate - to ALL the characters - naturalist form.

The book is about the inability of humans to rise above their circumstances when everyone and everything around them, society, law enforcement, economics, conspire to keep them down.  It's about the individual need to hold on to what belongs to them, knowing that there's something better, but clinging to what is familiar and comfortable, however unhealthy and ultimately fatal.

It's about human courage in the face of constant, unrelenting defeat.

Preminger makes the story trite and two-dimensional.  The bad guys are bad, the good guys are good, there's compassion for the protagonists, but not the antagonist.  Algren was not so narrow in his perspective.  His subtlety of intention and complexity of characters - which could have been conveyed in a single close up -  is lost in Premingers depiction whose black and white celluloid unfortunately extends beyond the color of the footage.

This is certainly not Frank Sinatra's best performance, although a good one.  He could have been given so much more to work with, given some direction toward more depth and dimension.  If you want to see a great performance by Sinatra, get the ORIGINAL "Manchurian Candidate."  The only film I can think of which more poorly utilizes the ability of its performers was the 1999 production of "Titus," with Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange.  Preminger's ability to coax sub-par performances from great actors with great material AND great music to work with was also evidenced in his "Anatomy of a Murder."

If you want a real look into an original, campassionate, controversial and honest look into the human condition, drug addiction, and economic and social oppression, read Algren's book.  The prose is beautiful, his treatment of the characters is gentle and compassionate with characters who received very little generosity or compassion in life.  And while you're at it, if you happen to be able to find a copy of Algren's own account of his dealings with Preminger, it'll make you think twice about Preminger's product, intention, and skewed vision of a true classic of literary naturalism.