Like everybody else... I feel the need to qualify the beginning of my review by saying that I have been a fan of DnD and fantasy for well over a decade.  When I first heard this movie was coming out I was extremely excited, and friends and I went to see it on one of the first nights.  When I left.... well, I wondered how, after soooo many years of waiting and finally getting a real big screen debut for the genre, they could drop the ball so very very badly.  The worst part is, there was a really good movie in there somewhere, just dying to get out.  They clearly did their work on the special effects, which were excellent, but they tripped very badly with the dialogue and storyline.  Even the casting (take away the dialogue) wasn't all that bad.  Everybody certainly looked the part, but it all ended up feeling very contrived.  The comic relief was heroically unfunny, and the "serious" scenes turned out to be the true cause for amusement.

Now, several years (and viewings), later, I don't hate the movie.... I just look at it as a wasted opportunity.  Had they really done their homework on this one, I truly think this could have launched the fantasy genre into the mainstream, but as it is I think it did more harm than good.  It reinforced the idea that DnD is stupid, hokey, and a game played only by strange repressed teenagers.  I had hoped that this could open the door for things like the "Dragonlance" Chronicles, or some of the "Forgotten Realms" storylines to make it into production (much like X-Men did for the comic book genre).  Alas, such will have to wait.

All told, this is an average movie that fans of fantasy, with suitably low expectations, can enjoy.  It could have been so much more, and I think that is where a lot of the fans venom is coming from.  Try to enjoy it for what it is, because our movie options in the genre are severely limited, and despite its flaws there are some redeeming qualities that make it fun enough to watch.... that being said, I've also heard rumor that the movie gets that much better after a couple beers.  Enjoy.