I watched this movie in hopes that it would somehow stand above the lackluster and manic Ultimates animated films but instead found something far worse. I'm not going to go into much detail, but suffice it to say Iron Man is a terrible movie wrought with cliches and unnecessary amounts of exposition.

The Chinese characters are all stereotypes who talk in obnoxiously cryptic manners and inherently know martial arts. The worst of which being the update of Professor Yinsen from Iron Man's origin, originally a brilliant physicist who assists in the construction of the original armor, now reduced to a yellowface, monk cliche who practices calligraphy whilst describing ancient Chinese legends to Stark.

The blend of CG and cel animation is ugly and reminded me of the nineties Silver Surfer cartoon when the techniques were first being practiced. Movements for CG characters are stiff and awkward and the graphics themselves look dated and videogame-y. The CG characters also appear to be always hovering over the cel animation, looking as if they're skating when they're supposed to be running.

Also, this really isn't a film about Tony Stark. This is a movie about the legend of The Mandarin and how the world is suppose to stop it - Tony just 'happens' to be there when it takes place. Except for the original armor; updated as an absurdly over-designed, weapon strapped tool for escape, all of his armors are already built, their existence treated with the simple explanation of, "These are exo-suits I've been building in secret!" They're also displayed with the utmost fan-service in mind (The audience is treated to glimpses of the Hulk-Buster and Ultimates suit to name a few) and seem to only fail, having absolutely no impact on the events of the film.

Beyond that, Tony's character is the victim of a seen-it-a-million-times father/son relationship and the over-arching theme of Tony learning to conquer his ego-centric personality goes nowhere. At one point he does actually announces that he's aware he needs to be a better person, blah blah blah, but the film ends with him more self-involved than before.

Anyhow, this movie sucks. Hopefully the live-action film will take what is certainly a rich character and do it justice.