The Forbidden Love

 Splendor in the Grass is defiantly a romance tearjerker. The film is a little lengthy but, worth your time. Its like the "Romeo and Juliet" theme or West Side Story, which had blissful young lovers separated due to the peer pressures of friends and family.

 The movie Splendor in the Grass is a Drama directed by Elia Kazan through Warner Brothers Studio. The film was released in 1961and received Academy Award: Best (Original) Story and Screenplay. The running time of this movie on DVD is 2:04. The star of the film is Natalie Wood, which plays Deanie, which was a Nominee for the Academy Awards Best Actress in 1961. Warren Beatty, also starred as Bud, for his screen debut.

 Splendor in the Grass is set in rural Kansas 1928; it tells the tragically romantic tale of teenagers Deanie and Bud who restrain their desires because of their families' disapproval. They both come from entirely different backgrounds, Bud 's family being wealthy - with a very controlling father, and Deanie middle to low class with a mother that is ashamed of sex - they allow class differences to prevent any possible union. Their passions exist purely in their hearts and minds, but the couple never physically expressed this forbidden love. However, this was during the late 20's and 'nice girls' didn't "do it" before they got married. Deanie is definitely a nice girl, with moral values. Bud, however, is torn, he wants to secure his love with Deanie but doesn't want to ruin her reputation or should I say spoil her. Bud is aching for sexual gratification, so Bud decides to drop Deanie, although he says he loves her. He then finds sexual satisfaction with others. Deanie goes into a state of severe depression, and a breakdown. She has to be institutionalized. Deanie finally recovers after 2 ½ years and returns home. She faces her feelings with Bud and closes that chapter in her life. Deanie is finally free to start her new life.

 I have given this movie a rating of 5 stars. Although the movie was long, it was very entertaining. I think it would be a great movie to show young teens of today.