Having watched this film, i have a lot to say about how it was made. For the good, the obvious whould be the acting. Stanley Tucci plays one of the better performances of 2009 as Susie's murderer, George Harvey. Saoirse Ronan does an outstanding job portraying the main character, Susie to a degree which was worthy of all awards she was nominated for or won. The cast is rounded out nicely by great performances from Mark Wahlberg, Rachel Weisz, and Rose Mclver as Jack, Abigail, and Lindsey respectivley. Other pros for this film include great direction during suspenseful/action sequence for which Peter Jackson is good for (Lord of the Rings Trilogy, King Kong). But as for the bad. I finished reading the book by Alice Sebold a few months ago after having it recommended to me by a friend. The book quickly became my all time favorite book because of how it branched off into several different plotlines and was able yet to wrap it up extreemly well at the end. I do not usually get emotional over books but this novel got me. Especially when (spoiler alert)Buckley learns of Susie's fate via monopoly pieces (end of spoilers). However be that as it may, Jackson had a very tough time bringing that same sense of emotion that i felt while reading the book. The film had its moments but at the end it left me of a sense that the main purpose of the book had been lost within an attempt to change the book's story into a "CSI" esque film inwhich the only plotline to show was the one of Jack's struggle to expose Harvey. I felt that this movie should not have left anything out of the book since it was all equally important to what made the book so great, no matter how long the final product whould have been. Another thing i personally had wrong with this film was the art direction taken for Susie's "in-between". The overall concept of her heaven was completley changed and i felt that was not cool. And because of this, the "in-between" was made with poorly edited sequences of CGI (namely the scene where the ships in the bottles where crashing on the shore). This movie was good had its viewer never read the book. It was acted out excellently and had a mostly good outcome but being that the book is my favorite novel ever, i felt deeply disappointed by what Jackson did.