Loosely based on the Arthurian legends, and particularly the series of books by T.H. White, "The Sword in the Stone" introduces us to Arthur as a scrawny, towheaded little boy, about eleven years old. There is a prophecy that whoever can pull a magical sword out of the stone in which it is embedded will be the next King of England, but young Arthur, an uneducated servant and squire to his dim-witted and brutish foster brother Kay, an aspiring knight, is a long way from fulfilling his destiny. In the meantime, he finds himself under the tutelage of Merlin the Wizard, who attempts to fill his head with the knowledge that he will need to reach his potential.

Disney has turned this legend into a comically delightful little tale, with a cast full of terrific characters. Merlin is a bit absent-minded and rather eccentric, but finds fun and innovative ways to teach young Arthur the lessons of life, including temporary transformations into a fish, a squirrel, and a bird. Also memorable is his owl, Archimedes, a stodgy little ball of feathers that you can't help but love. And the movie is not devoid of memorable villains, either, from the dull and oafish Kay, to the persistent but consistently unsuccessful wolf that stalks Arthur through the woods, to the "magnificent, marvelous, mad" Madame Mim, the gleefully evil witch who is Merlin's nemesis. One of my favorite sequences is the Wizards' Duel between Merlin and Mim.

I have always been a little surprised that this film isn't more well-known amongst the Disney classics. It was probably my favorite as a child, and was only bumped out of the number one spot when "Aladdin" made it's debut in 1992. But it still holds a very special place in my heart, and I'm thrilled to now own it on DVD, remastered and more wonderful than ever. Made in 1963, the animation has the older, sketchier "classic" Disney look, which I tend to prefer over the sleek new style, and the colors in this remastered version are rich and lively. The songs are all very catchy, often with delightfully humorous lyrics.

The DVD comes with an abundance of great Special Features. There is a Scrap Book with concept art and movie posters, a "Music Magic" featurette with the Sherman brothers that includes two songs that were never put in the movie, sing alongs of "Higitus Figitus" and "That's What Makes the World Go 'Round," a brief but interesting section of Film Facts, a 1957 TV show "All About Magic" hosted by Walt Disney, and two animated shorts - "Knight for a Day" starring Goofy, and "Brave Little Tailor" starring Mickey Mouse. All in all, this DVD is really a must for the collection of any Disney enthusiast, young or old.