You will find a lot of this review may not make perfect sense, because the film itself is so bad its hard to no where to start and where to stop to hopefully save someone some stress, time, and money. Certainly do not watch this to calm you, or to find something new (except for a new mindset of terrible acting, directing, and editing).
Okay, the film was released on Ocotber the 6th, and you will notice about 50% of the reviews were on the exact release date. They PRAISED the film... You can easily see a pattern that almost seems like the only people whom wrote good reviews were part if the crew that had a part in the film.
THE STORY: For the 1st hour there is sqealing & screaming and of course the movie starts out with someone vommiting. It seems any time there is a loss for footage, the producer, director, or editor will take you to a quick shot of Vomit in a film. The film is all SUPPOSED to be based on the Children in the movies acting quality (since the film is obviously about the children). You're going to probably do like us and come back to Amazon just to see what people found even half way "decent" about this film. The last 20-30 minutes is all you will need to watch. I would not suggest paying more than a Redbox/Netflix 99 cent rental for this, even if you have a Blu-Ray player and HDTV (as I do). The kids are finally "told" to act (I think they were at least maybe trying) during the last 20 minutes.
THE CAMERA WORK: Jumpy... Non stop jumpiness to seem to be in attempt to dodge almost all of the footage of the film. It's confusing it's so terrible.
I would explain more, but Im just speachless at this point. The only comment I can leave is I think I would have been VERY angry at any video store for allowing me to rent this film without at least warning me that I was about to waste 5+ Dollars for a rental. I would not even let someone purchase this film for more than 99 cents in Blu-Ray form if I were to sell it on eBay. I would feel that bad about allowing the person to pay a dime to see it. Oh goodness... I dont know what to tell you other than "Good Luck" if you read this and still plan to spend more than 99 cents for the rental.