I finally got around to seeing this after not seeing the original for many, many years. Perhaps it is not fair to compare this or the actors here to the original since many of the actors here are younger than the ones were in the original. However, since they chose to do the same movie, with the same name and with the same basic plot, comparisons will be made.

I found this to be lacking a lot of the kick (no pun intended), heart, and emotional payoff the original had during many scenes and overall. It isn't that it was devoid of heart or drama, but in many ways they are nowhere near the original's.

Dre (Jaden Smith) who is the "Daniel" character does a good job, is a cute kid etc. but for one seems a bit too cool for the character who is the underdog. Although he does admirably for his age, face it he is no Ralph Macchio. I don't think they should have gone with someone so young for such a role. Sure, it might appeal more to the younger kids. I realize the benefits of choosing younger and the negatives of choosing older actors to play younger parts (which has happened a lot in Hollywood), but it does often benefit in stronger actors in the roles.

Jackie Chan does admirably for his experience and probably shows more depth than have been seen from him (although I haven't watched his other movies). However, once again no comparison to Pat Morita who showed a lot more heart, determination and humor. Even though Miyagui was short and small, he conveyed the toughness andgrit to where you believed he could beat the evil sensei.

Taraji P. Henson (as Dre's mother) does have some funny moments, but doesn't measure up in the mother role either. Now, the following isn't her fault, but it seems unlikely to me in this day and age that a mother would let her son spend so much time alone with a virtual stranger (especially a single man). Now, this is sad that our times have become that way, but it is reality. One could argue that she just wants Dre to be happy and feels bad they had to move, but still it doesn't seem plausible. But then again, these days too many parents want to be their kid's friends and seen as cool, so maybe this isn't as far-fetched as I thought. Either way, in most movies we have to suspend disbelief, so I will give them that one (at least to some degree). However, while we are on plot and details in relation to the mother, how many mothers do you know who wouldn't seem more concerned when her son was hurt at the end? I would think most would want to run up front and try to get to him. Most wouldn't be thrilled he was going to continue to fight when injured (when they were tied after his leg getting hurt a second time). The original actress showed much more concern, care etc. in this scene. In fact, after writing this earlier in the day, I remembered that the mother, Miyagui and girlfriend all DID run up front when the leg was first hurt (although above I was referring to when the "Johnny" equivalent hurt the leg before the final winning blow. The mother didn't seem all that concerned, but instead was excited when he got up to continue fighting at the end. I would think most wouldn't have wanted him to go on, or at least be real concerned and on the edge of their seats (even if they wanted to see them win).

The original sensei seemed much more evil and jerky than the one here did (Master Li?) The original was also much more intimidating and easier to hate even though the one here probably did worse things.

The Ali equivalent here was a sweet girl and funny in places, but didn't nearly have the chops of Elisabeth Shue. They did seem to develop the character here a bit more, but it didn't seem to do a lot of good and might have even distracted  from the main plot in some ways.

The Johnny equivalent here did show some jerkiness, but suffers from a lot of the same thing as the sensei above. Not as despicable, although he had his moments.

There were some differences here that made it different than a carbon copy (I might get into those later), but the basic plot is the same. With the Karate Kid really being the Kung Fu Kid aside, this seems to suffer with too many cool moves instead of drama and execution of the plot. The moves are cool to look at (but exaggerated
) and the scenes nice to see, but a lot of the emotion is just not there. I can deal with the differences in teaching (no scrub the floor, paint the fence, wax on, wax off  etc. here) because the moves being taught are different. However, it seemed like it concentrated too much on being cool, showing cool moves etc. The original had enough moves to be dramatic and cool without trying to be a cross between a martial arts flick and a live depiction of a video game.

I guessed early on (when the day of the girl's audition changed) that something would try to prevent her from going to the tournament. I was correct except I thought it would be her needing to be in concert, rehearsal or something. I also figured she would get there anyhow, but was surprised about the parents not allowing her to see him and Dre and Mr. Han going to the house. Those were nice.

There were some heartwarming moments and we did see Mr. Han and Dre make differences in each others' lives. There was still some drama and payoff, and perhaps those who never saw the far superior original might like it better than I did. I tried to be fair and rate it score-wise without the original in mind, but can't be absolutely sure I succeeded as of course after seeing it, this one fell short.