I don't recall why I started out looking for old Don Ameche movies, but based on so many positive reviews here, this was the one I chose first.  I am so glad I did.  I've watched the DVD at least a dozen time since I received it, and I haven't tired of it.  I love the characters, the plot, the settings and costuming.

Colbert's Eve Peabody is beautiful, elegant, quick-thinking, and willing to take chances, whatever the consequences.  She yearns for financial security but somehow always winds up following her heart instead of her wallet (or clutch purse, in this case).  You can't help liking and sympathizing with her even when she seems determined to follow through on her gold-digging plan.  She quickly and successfully jumps into the role of faux baroness.

Ameche's Tibor Czerny is an honest, determined, non-materialistic cab driver of apparently simple tastes for whom the wealthy are just fares, not people to be envied, until he meets Eve and is utterly smitten with her.  She's smitten too, but tries to resist falling in love with yet another poor man, and flees into the lap of luxury.  But he'll do anything to find her again, even slide into the role of titled nobility himself.

Barrymore's George Flammarion is fabulous - he's hilarious, sly, and desperate to keep the wife he loves, whatever the cost, even to the extent of throwing a comely gold-digger in the path of his wife's lover in hopes of distracting him.  As complications arise, he seems to revel not just in having set the so-far successful plot in motion, but in being the only one who truly realizes what's going on and in going along with everything that happens as the situation gets more complicated and fantastic.

Astor's Helene Flammarion is very well-played, and her pain at seeing her lover's reaction to Eve seems very real.  She quickly realizes her rival will be successful if she doesn't do something, and she scrambles for some way to win the battle for Picot's heart; she's delighted to meet "Baron Czerny" and to set Czerny and Picot against each other in hopes that the baron will woo back his baroness and her lover will return to her.

Lederer's Jacques Picot, not often mentioned, is gorgeous and fun to watch, if rather predictable as not so much a villain but a light-hearted playboy whose fancy flits easily from one woman to another -- and you have to wonder about his often-referenced mother.  He's a man who needs women in his life, yet you see that none of them will really displace the mother who matters most to him -- until, perhaps, Eve.

The beginning build-up gives us time to get to know and care what happens between Peabody and Czerny, before they slip into the world of the refined wealthy who seem to have nothing better to do than host parties, go shopping, and play love games, with the poor couple looking for the real thing.  It's easy to just sit back, enjoy, laugh, and root for love.  Plenty of sly innuendo and sparkling wit, without the complications from vulgarity, violence, or love-defined-as-hopping-into-bed-at-first-meeting that have the potential to distract from characters, plot, and setting.  The cast plays so well off each other.  I enjoy them all.

This movie is truly joyous, an one reviewer noted.  I love it and recommend it.