I love things that move fast; especially things that move fast and can blow stuff up.  I love high-tech anything and especially air (or space) craft.  I also love video games and movies with high speed dogfights between said air (or space) craft.  So, logically, I should have absolutely adored Rob Cohen's latest film "Stealth".  But, once again, this turned out to be a case of too much of a good thing.

 Set in the near (but unidentified) future, "Stealth" centers around three pilots who are the best of the best: Ben Gannon (Josh Lucas), Kara Wade (Jessica Biel), and Henry Purcell (Jamie Foxx).  They fly the fastest, stealthiest, and most powerful planes in the  US Naval Air Corps.  But they feel like their jobs are in jeopardy when an advanced artificially-intelligent fighter plane, designated EDI (or "Eddie"), is assigned to their flight group fresh out of development.

 Like any typical brash young pilots, the trio just aren't comfortable with a computer, rather than a person, flying a plane.  But their commanding officer (Sam Shepard) is behind the project 100%, and they grudgingly accept Eddie as part of the group.  But, since this would be an incredibly boring exercise otherwise, Eddie is hit by a bolt of lightning that scrambles his circuits, turning him into an obvious reference to HAL from "2001: A Space Odyssey".  With missiles.

 I liked the general plot, and I've always liked aerial action and pilot chatter, but "Stealth" was just way over the top.  It would make a better video game than movie:  It's even set up like a video game, with the action gradually escalating to the finale.

 Also like a video game, there is remarkably little character development, and I found myself not particularly caring about any of the characters.  There was a little bit of tragic "forbidden love" between Gannon and Wade, but it was lost in the blinding light from all the explosions.

 And there were certainly many, many explosions.  And I'm not talking about the requisite kind that every summer action movie has, these were ridiculously enormous explosions.  One was, I'm not kidding, visible from orbit.

 There was also an inordinate amount of dizzyingly fast pans tracking supersonic aircraft and disorienting camera moves coupled with loud sound effects to create a feeling of "overwhelment."  That's all fine and good, but in moderation.

 The summer blockbuster season must be almost over, because I'm getting that jaded feeling again.  Perhaps if I'd seen this movie in May, I would have loved it, but by now I've had my fill of incredible special effects.  And these effects are certainly incredible.

 And yes, I did in fact just make up the word "overwhelment."