My wife and I saw the movie Think Like a Man a couple weeks ago and to took a little for my thoughts on it to culminate. The movie is based on the Steve Harvey book, Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man, published in 2009. In it, Harvey describes how a woman could learn different types of men and determine if a potential relationship is right for her.

The movie is based on four men and four women, the men being the different `types' the women need to think like in order to have successful relationships. I'm truly of two minds regarding this movie. For starters, it's very heavy-handed that it is based on the Steve Harvey book. I mean, there wasn't a book with a picture of Mario Puzo anywhere in the movie The Godfather, and Rhett didn't need to reference a book before telling Scarlett he didn't give a damn in Gone with the Wind, why couldn't a story be crafted without having extremely convenient and awkward-fitting cut-ins to Harvey mentioning segments of his book or the women saying things that begin with, "Steve Harvey says..." And by the way, this is a romantic comedy, to play Steve Harvey serious is a complete travesty. The man is an accomplished comedian and he was a bore.

But maybe I'm being unfair. The Godfather and Gone with the Wind were two completely different kinds of movies from Think Like a Man. A comparison to a movie within its genre would be fair, right? How about, I dunno, say He's Just Not that Into You, starring everyone. That movie was based on the book by the same title, written by Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo and made into a romantic comedy. But it didn't need to constantly hearken back to its source material as if seeking purchase in the minds of the people who'd read the book or wanted to. And as romantic comedies tend to go, He's Just Not That Into You was boring (in my opinion).

Which brings me to my other mind on Think. Despite any preconceived notions I found myself laughing frequently throughout this movie. This is mostly due to the efforts of Kevin Hart, who plays Cedric, a man at the tail-end of divorce in the midst of three of his friends involved in budding romances. But Hart is more than just comedy relief. He's the movie's fulcrum and carries it off with a degree gravitas, despite going for the joke in nearly every scene. There's a palpable degree of juxtaposition between what Cedric is going through and what the other three men are experiencing, most apparent during his divorce party when the men are all thinking about their relationships and realizing how they are being manipulated.

So not entirely liking or disliking the movie, the only other means I have to determine if it was a success in my mind is watchability. Would I watch this again? I rented it from Blockbuster, but I don't see myself renting it again (but that's probably more likely because I can get it from my library), but when this comes on HBO or Showtime, unless it's competing with boxing, I think I would.