This movie was hard for me to get into for a long time, but finally got in the mood to check it out.  Like most viewers, I have favorite segments.  It is certainly dated and there is some dispute as to whether or not it is in the classic line.  But in 1952, it was a big splash likely due to the star power, advanced publicity and sweep. It was different for the era (no doubt considered a bit racy), and probably compared more favorably with other films of the year.

Kirk Douglas is of course a Hollywood classic and always has interest.  Whether his character is lead, head or tail, he's a good watch.  This is a very strong role with plenty to watch and probably the top performance of his career to the date of the picture.

Lana Turner has never been a favorite of mine, finding her style alternatively slick and emotive.  Some consider that her best work was done in this picture (perhaps the famous driving scene).  My take on her as an actress in general is echoed by a line about her character in this film.  It's when Shields comments on her character's poor audition, saying that he wanted her for his lead part anyway because she had star power.  He said that as bad as she was in the audition, every eye was on her in her scene.  We become fascinated with certain personalities and will flock to see anything with them in it.  Many of these are not good performers, even though they are around long enough to pick up some awards.  They get lots of chances to hit, being kept at work in film after film because of their box office draw.

I liked Dick Powell in this better than anything I have seen of him.  Found myself perking up and watching him closely, which I have never done with him before.  His character always drew my interest.  He portrayed a strong, practical and level headed man, who did seem to be too easily swerved by his whimsical wife. It didn't weaken him overall. Regardless, I found his character very likeable. He, along with Walter Pidgeon's character and others, were the background levelers required to keep the ship on even keel.

I don't begrudge Gloria Grahame her Oscar for her supporting role. Many find it surprising for such limited screen time.  She may have compared more favorably with other supporting actresses that particular year.  But I think she is a skillful actress (worked on stage as well), and am glad she received recognition.  She has well played a range of characters from a gangster's moll to that nut-job in "Oklahoma."  As most are aware, sometimes actors are awarded for a role that may not be their best, but were passed over the previous year(s) due to a crowded field.

I was curious about the Lila actress, the nasty dame who slinked down the stairway near the end, casting a shadow across Georgia's face as she hugged Shields.  It was Elaine Stewart - someone very attractive who never showed up after this.  Be sure to spot Barbara Billingsley ("Leave It to Beaver" mom) as the wardrobe coordinator. Interesting to check out these bit players sometimes.