I first saw this movie when it came out in theaters. I am still surprised at how good it actually was. I really didn't want to see it because it looked and sounded so stupid. But my girlfriend drug me to the movies to see it. In my opinion, this movie has all the makings of a good action movie. It has a plot, not much of a plot, but it is there, and its not like everything happens at the beginning and the rest of the movie is just pointless violence, the story actually unfolds between scenes of violence. A small twist here and there. Hot girls, good special effects. And the best part, no sex scene. I hate sex scenes in action movies, especially long drawn out ones, its a waste of time and is only put there because they wanted to make the movie longer so they inserted a scene that has no plot value whatsoever, but why have plot when you can have boobs? I'm sorry but i'm not going to pay $9 a person to watch someone else get laid.

The setting of the movie is a little farfetched but somewhat realistic. Bad economy, the country is failing, there aren't enough taxes to keep the prison system running, so the prisons are bought out by private companies. The game Death Race is created as a way to get rich and as an alternative to the death penalty. A simple yet creative idea.

There is a lot of violence with blood and gore. However, it is focused moreso on the action and violence than the blood and gore. Meaning the blood and gore is only there to compliment the action, so they didn't rely on the blood and gore to make the movie.

Jason Statham and Tyrese Gibson are both good actors and they both fit their parts well. A working class white guy whose employer had to shut down, gets framed and goes to prison where he gets drug into playing the game and slowly uncovers the plot to milk him for all of the money he is worth by the greedy female warden. Then a black guy who has been in prison and has been playing the game for a long time, he is determined to be the best and win his freedom but always gets the shaft, once again thanks to the greedy female warden.

Plot, action, violence, good special effects, good acting, no wasting your time with a boring love story. After listing all of those things I have just realized that this movie is the polar opposite of the Twilight series. So, if you are like me and hate the Twilight saga because it is nothing but a bunch of emotional crap aimed at, like, teenage girls who can, like, so relate to, like, having a vampire boyfriend. And you believe that vampire movie without violence is like a car without an engine, you can get into it if you want to be its not like your gonna go anywhere with it, Death Race might be a good movie for you.