I haven't even recieved my copy in the mail yet, but I feel like crying. I'm 20 years old, my older brother and I have just about all of the original airings on tape. We watch them to this day, and they are so worn out. We sat back while "classic tv show" after "classic tv show" got the DVD treatment except for one of our absolute favorites.

Now that it's finally here, we get chopped syndication versions??? Sure, you can say it's just a tv show, but when you're a big fan and know every episode you have by heart, it's hard not to notice a missing line of dialog here and there, and in some cases entire scenes.

I'm so angry about this. It's so unfair what they've done. The ONLY reason I'm giving this a five instead of a one is because I love the show so much.

I KNEW there had to be a reason for such a low price...you get what you pay for I guess, but I would have gladly paid 60 or 70 for the TRUE show I love, not the chopped versions that were made to fit more viagra ads in a half hour slot.

All I have to say is, everyone who's angry and surprised by this, spread the word and let the makers KNOW IT. Maybe if they get enough of a response they'll release it the way it SHOULD be, or at the very least not chop the remaining seasons.

***UPDATED***

Now that I've had a chance to watch it, I'll add on to my review from yesterday.

Well, I got my copy in the mail yesterday as I thought I would. I must say even though I am still angry and disappointed at the chopped versions, and the fact that about half the clips in the clip show "Try To Remember" are part of the mysterious redone voice/lines that an earlier reviewer mentioned, it made me so happy to have my favorite show back in watchable condition again. I'm just glad not every show was redone...not sure I could have handled such a core element being so different.

Unlike an earlier reviewer, I thought that the gag reel was quite funny, and I've already watched it twice. The different menu introductions on each disk are a nice touch, especially ALF's comment on disc 1:

"It's a good thing Melmacians live for 400 years, cause it took almost that long to get this DVD out." Amen!

I'm also not impressed with the overlapping style of the disc case, I think that's a very poor element, especially when only one of the disk holders on each side actually allows the disc to be snapped into place. When it came in the mail the other two discs out of the four were just flopping loose inside the case....not good.

Overall, the show itself manages to shine through the disservices of poor packaging and syndication editing that were done to it. I still hope and pray that they will release it again with the full episodes, and not chop the remaining seasons, but it was still great to have the ol' Alfer back at least somewhat the way he used to be.