At the end of the day, the underlying subject of this movie is:  "We are The Muppets: If modern society decides we are no longer funny and popular, we're ok with that.  We are just here to entertain for those who will appreciate."

I'm not a professional critic, so there's no need for me to bore everyone with an over-analyzed, granular review.  What I can say is I (like many folks) have been a die hard Muppet fan since I was a kid in the early 80's.  Jim Henson was a genius and the world became a slightly darker place when we lost him.  I lost touch with The Muppets over the years as they tried to re-envision themselves and relate to a new generation.  Though still popular, it wasn't the same to me.  This new film is the closest thing that I have seen in attempting to return to their truly zany days when you had Henson, Oz, Hunt, and Nelson leading the charge.

Jason Segel (who co-wrote the screenplay) didn't have to do his research.  It's obvious he has been a fan of the Muppet-brand of humor for a long time.  There were so many subtle homages to the classic essence of Henson and The Muppets that will fly under the radar of many, and yet they still managed to write a genuinely, caring story that will hold the attention of a new generation.  Also, in the tradition of classic Muppet movies, keep your eyes peeled for "blink and you'll miss them" cameos by movie stars of all generations.

Additionally, I would like to point out that it was refreshing to see a plethora of classic, overlooked Muppets from the past getting their time in the spotlight in this movie:  Lew Zealand, The News Anchor, Marvin Suggs, Uncle Deadly, along with the ALWAYS hip Electric Mayhem just to name a few.

I will close this review by saying, the absolute best part of seeing this movie was NOT looking around and seeing adults and kids in the theater laughing together at the same moments, but sitting next to a woman about my age with her two kids.  (**Very minor spoiler) - - During a scene in which Walter is looking around the old Muppet theater, old pictures on the wall featuring Jim Henson and other Muppet history came into view.  I heard the mom next to me sniffle, and I too wiped a few tears away.  Her daughter leaned over and whispered, "....why are you crying?".  Her mother turned to her and said, "...you wouldn't understand."  I couldn't have said it better.