The thing about House Of Games is that you're sure its lame until the last 30 minutes or so and after you've finished watching it, you still can't decide if you like it or not. Regardless, it doesn't hold up to repeated viewings.
The horrible acting (especially from Mamet's then-wife Linsay Crouse) and stiff dialogue, along with the ill-advised lighting homage to film noir almost play into the "con" Mamet is playing on the viewer. Still, that doesn't make it *enjoyable* to watch.
The theme of pairing pyschology with the con artist is loaded with potential. However, it is not explored enough. The scenes between the doctor and her patient are Ed Wood bad. Bad dialogue, bad acting, bad photography and, most of all, empty. Similarly, the scenes with Maria, the older shrink professor, are too obvious. The "Freudian slips" are just amateurish. There is no excuse for this, as these scenes can't be explained away by being ensconsed in the world of confidence games, where neither party has their guard down and may be trying to lead the other on. For more on this, read Mike Stone's review below.
Overall, while the plot becomes clever in an unconventional way, there was way too much raw potential that went unrealized. The cons are somewhat obvious and lame. We know the "big con" before Maggie does and what she does from there isn't clever, but instead relies on the character development, which was pretty much nil up to this point. Mamet crowbars the subtle aspects of her character in there. Subtle as a flying mallet. And yet, he doesn't want to spend too much time on them (wisely) so he relies on singular scenes with the mental patient or her mentor Maggie and all I can say is these scenes are woefully lacking in all aspects. Good scene writing escaped Mamet in this movie. Not to mention any dialogue that rises above *painfully* bad.
The script, in this sense, is its own worst enemy. The basic structure is fine, but the scene-to-scene execution is pitiful. Couple that with bad acting and (at times) cheesy cinematography and it's just too bad that a solid idea was so underdeveloped.
I wish Mamet had done two things: (1) Revised the script a number of times and made it far better and (2) Let someone else direct it. He adapted the scrpit for The Verdict which was, in my opinion, a fine job of screenwriting. However, Sidney Lumet's direction and Newman's acting sent it over the top. I truly wish Lumet had directed this.