War Horse is by no means a bad movie. It was well acted, well scripted, and in many ways a deeply moving film. But if you are a horse lover (as I am) it will likely be difficult for you to watch.

The movie follows a beautiful Thoroughbred named Joey through various phases of his life. Unfortunately, the horse has a very difficult life, changing owners numerous times and going through some really harrowing experiences. I thought perhaps some of the ugliness of war would be toned down since this movie will likely appeal to a wide audience especially because of how the ads play up the bond between the horse and the boy. While there's not a lot of blood and gore, it is still very violent and it is very much a movie about war.

I could not adequately express my issues with this movie without discussing a couple of scenes within the movie, although I have tried very hard to leave out any major spoilers.  If you would like to know what kinds of scenes made this difficult for me to watch, read on (*Mild spoiler alert*):

One of the first war scenes depicts a cavalry battalion (with Joey being towards the front) ambushing a group of unsuspecting soldiers. A group of 100+ soldiers on horses rush toward the encampment and cut down several soldiers, some of them in the process of shaving and getting dressed. But there are machine guns hidden in the trees and almost the entire battalion of horses and riders is cut down by machine gun fire as they head towards the trees. Only a few horses (Joey included) survive. This was a very difficult scene to watch and countless dead horses on the ground gave you an idea of how badly horses generally fared in wartime situations.

There is another very difficult scene to watch in which Joey is running away from a tank and runs in a blind panic over and around several bunkers.  He eventually runs head long through several strands of barbwire. He gets so bogged down in the barbwire that he flips end over end and is completely unable to free himself. It was heartwrenching and terrible to watch. However, the scene that follows was one of the most moving of the movie (I'll leave out the details).

One of the tired, but true, war adages that came to mind while watching this movie was "war is hell." This proves to be true for pretty much everyone in the movie, especially the horse. While this was a good movie in some respects, it is definitely not one I enjoyed watching.  I hope this review helps others like me who may not enjoy watching a horse endure the ravages of war.