Great road trip movie.  A bit slow at times, but excellent character building, and even some decent acting by the main three.  They really have come a long ways.  Especially Harry / Daniel who over the past few films has grown immensely as an actor.

However, I am SO, SO sick of the studios PURPOSEFULLY doing a bad job on their DVD transfers only to promote Blu-Rays.  The explosion of combo packs has driven this further, because many folks with a 32" or smaller 720p set can't see the difference between a Blu-Ray and upcoverted DVD...UNLESS the DVD is a *terrible* quality source.  The studios are now MALICIOUSLY doing horrible transfer jobs in order to make the Blu-Ray look better.  This is not conspiracy theory.  Watch for yourself by comparing HP7 with HP4 or 5 on DVD!

There is ABSOLUTELY NO REASON that the HP7 DVD should look this bad.  First off, it is only using a fraction of the available DVD dual-layer space available, and as such is *riddled* with compression artifacts.  You need no more proof than that, but the real proof is in the pudding!  Compare the HP4 and HP5 dark scenes with those in HP7 pt 1 and you will see NIGHT AND DAY difference in quality.  Things should be better today, not worse.  You can't tell me it was on accident.  This was almost certainly found and raised during quality control, and quietly snuffed by the marketing folks.  It was engineered this way on purpose.

While we are a Blu-Ray household with 4 total BD players (living room, MBR, newest desktop, newest laptop), we have nearly a dozen DVD Players counting older laptops, desktops, portable DVD players, and cars.  Overall, this movie undoubtedly will be watched more on DVD than on BD.  We shouldn't be subjecdted to inferior quality just because some bozo in Marketing things it will impact BD sales 1% to 2%.  I don't care if he's right.  It's not fair.  We pay a good price for the DVD, and we should get a product that is the best possible for the money.  Not one that is artifcially neutered for marketing reasons!!!

I blame Warner Brothers.  There is no excuse for this.  I do not feel this was an accident, and this needs to stop!

Rhino