As far as action-comedies and buddy flicks go, "The Rundown" is just about as good as it gets.  It also introduces The Rock to the general public as the forerunner of the next generation of action movie stars; someone who has the physical chops to truly be as menacing as his on-screen persona, but also can play self-deprecating humor quite well.  In fact, it's the humorous bits The Rock played (screaming at monkeys; "these guys kick HARD!" although that latter bit never made it into the final film) that stuck in my memory the most as the most entertaining bits of the movie and showed a dimension to The Rock that longtime wrestling fans always knew were there, but which has not been displayed before the general public until now.  The Rock proved that he can carry a film all by his lonesome with this movie, and solidified himself as a force in the action movie genre for some time to come.
Seann William Scott, much to my surprise, comes off as something more than another typecast Stiffler character, which is admittedly his greatest strength.  He convincingly plays a character who should be despicable and loathesome to the audience, but by the end of the movie, Scott has managed to make him sympathetic and praiseworthy.  Unlike the role played by Johnny Knoxville in the recent "Walking Tall", Scott's role in "The Rundown" is much more important than comedic relief.  It's through him that Beck (The Rock's character) comes to terms with the conflicts inside himself.
Rosario Dawson's character could have been easily written off as annoying or just plain far fetched.  A beautiful, female rebel leader who speaks perfect English and works as a barmaid by day?  Ridiculous.  But Dawson plays the character so convincingly that you quickly forget the ludicrous premise.
To director Peter Berg's credit, he appears to simply get out of stunt coordinator Andy Cheng's way with the fight scenes and allows Cheng's strengths to shine through.  There is a marked difference in quality between the fight scenes in "The Rundown" and "Walking Tall".  "The Rundown" exhibits more kinetic, frantic and poetic fight scenes that are simply beautiful to watch.  They can be watched again and again.
The bonus features of this DVD should be better labelled.  On the first screen of bonus features, one can view more features by clicking on "Back to Menu" (or something like that) at the bottom of the screen, even though that function would appear to take you back to the title screen.  
I don't buy many DVDs, but I'm glad I bought this one.