I was really excited when I bought this movie and then really disappointed after watching it. Although I don't question Clint Eastwood's love for Bird or jazz (I would love to have a conversation about jazz with him, and Bill Cosby too!) I came away quite confused aobut the motivation for this film. The film was quite long (in the 2 and a half hour range) and half of that time seemed to be focusing on Parker's drug habits and the vast majority of the film really seemed to focus on the last 4 or 5 years of his life. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying Parker was an angel or that these aspects of his life should not be shown in the film because they should. They were a part of who Bird was. However, when you're spending a good half the film or more showing this one aspect of his life and pretty much completely ignoring the 1941-49 period, which was the most important period of his career, (Not only is it his strongest period as far as his playing, but most important of all it's the period in which he revolutionized jazz) then you're definitely missing the big picture. There were also some incorrect portrayals of certain people. Like Buster Smith, who is portrayed as this man who had a disliking for Bird, when in reality it was Smith who took Bird under his wing and taught Bird a lot about his playing. The cymbal throwing incident is also portrayed incorrectly. First of all, it was a jam session, and not a concert led by Smith. Secondly, it didn't happen because Bird was taking too long of a solo or trying to overshadow the leader, it happened because he tried playing the song in double time and was totally messing up and continued to try to play the tune in double time until Jo Jones unscrewed one of the cymbals off the top of it's stand and threw at Bird's feet. That said, what it really comes down to is this "Does somebody who knows little or nothing about Bird come away knowing the importance of his place in music? That after Louis Armstrong he was the most influential American musician of the 20th century? (Keep in mind Armstrong and Parker are the only two men I can think of who can claim to have influenced every single instrument, only Armstrong influenced vocals too, so that puts him a step above Parker)" The answer is a definite no.