From Writer/Director Gary Ross(Big, Dave) comes the original and breathtaking film "Pleasantville". The film opens in the America of today, where we are taught that the world is in a down spiral and will only continue to get worse. A teenager named David(Tobey Maguire) is a fanatic of the 50's television show "Pleasantville" and knows everything about it. Meanwhile his twin sister Jennifer(Reese Witherspoon) is a satire of teenage life in herself with her getting ready for her date. They both fight over the television remote and when it breaks, a television repaire man knocks on the door, offering a remote "with more oomph" in it. When they click it, they are magically transported into the world of "Pleasantville". 
"Pleasantville" seems to combine the worlds of many 50's television shows, from the twin beds to the lover's lane where nothing goes on besides holding hands. David and Jennifer become Bud and Mary Sue, the children of George and Betty(William H. Macy, Joen Allen). The townspeople have no idea of an outside world. When Jennifer asks what is outside of mainstreet, the teacher answers, "The end of mainstreet is just the beginning again." Life is absolutely perfect, with the basketball team incapable of missing a shot. When one player Skip discusses his first sexual experience with the team, everyone misses the basket. 
David can adapt to this world easily because of  his "Pleasantville" knowledge, but Jennifer tries to change everything, and make it her definition of normal. From this black and white world, vibrant colors emerge and changes begin to appear. Rock and roll blares from the jukebox, and the teenagers no longer just hold hands at lover's lane. The kids at school become interested in books, and the library becomes one of the popular hangouts. Bud's employer Mr. Johnson(Jeff Daniels), a soda jerk, becomes involved in art when Bud hands him a book filled with reproduced works of art. He then goes on to paint his own works of art on the outside of his diner.
As the people change from black and white to color, there are still many people left unchanged. This splits the town in the ways that America was divided during the era. The chairman of the chamber of congress (J.T. Walsh) wants to keep things pleasant, so he wants to take out the things that are unpleasant. Violence breaks out, and the people do not realize that they would be in color as well if they expressed their inner feelings. Mary sue questions why she isn't in color and Bud answers: "Maybe it's not just the sex, it's the change". 
"Pleasantville" shows how different life was in the 50's, but it is not really as different as you might think. Some of the townspeople accept their new change with happiness while others fear it. They are pleasant but they are not really happy. They are merely settled into there lives with an everyday redundancy. "Pleasantville" is a cinematic masterpiece with incredible acting and a remarkable kindness to it. The film is a suprising joy.