Patrice Leconte, who directed, came to Hollywood in 1996 fully expecting to win the Oscar for best foreign film with "Ridicule" but lost to a bit of fluff from the Czech Republic titled "Kolya."  It was a shocking experience, he says in an interview.  He and his wife ducked all the parties after the ceremony was over and returned to France on the next plane; walking around Paris, he says he felt he had a sticker on his forehead that read "loser."  Did he get a raw deal in Hollywood?

Yes and no.

Yes because this is an interesting and entertaining film, far better than the ones Leconte competed against that year, well done and well acted.  Judith Godreche (she's on the DVD cover) and Fanny Ardant are beautiful women who create memorable characters, while Berling and Rochefort prove why they are among France's best actors.  The story itself is spot on (as the Brits say) in showing a French version of "Nero fiddled while Rome burned" -- in this case, how Louis XVI, who ascended to the throne in the middle of financial crisis, wasted time with trivia (verbal fisticuff competitions at court) when he should have been taking care of business, which led to a revolution, and the rest is history.

No because this sort of topic, despite the new angle, doesn't realy warm the hearts of Academy members.  And speaking of members, it doesn't help matters to start the story with a shot of a fellow whipping out his ... member (no kidding) and urinating on a dying old man who had insulted him years ago.  M. Leconte, with all due respect, this sort of thing makes you look like a bonehead in Hollywood (no pun intended).  That scene should have been taken out.  I'm guessing it turned people off and led to the warm and fuzzy "Kolya" getting the nod instead.  More importantly, unless viewers know French well enough to get the point of the humor and the play on words, all that will be lost in translation.  I am certain virtually no one in Hollywood knows (or cares) what alexandrine meter is and how hard it is to write poetry in French that follows such a pattern--the examples in the film are minor league stuff anyway; for the real thing, read Baudelaire.  The verbal fisticuffs give the film a high degree of arrogance and condescension that does not go over well at all in Tinseltown.

Leconte does much better when he stays away from politics, e.g. "The Hairdresser's Husband" and "The Perfume of Yvonne."  Check those out.