As much as I like LAWRENCE OF ARABA, though still way too long, I have had to admit that this is David Lean's masterpiece. I saw it projected on the big screen at the Egyptian Theatre during a Lean Retrospective and it dropped my jaw. All of this talk about how LAWRENCE changed editing in motion pictures with its "match cut" blah, blah, blah, when Lean had been editing, or supervising the editing of his films like that all along. Trust American audiences not to believe anything unless it appears on their territory in the form of Columbia Studios and Sam Spiegel.

Anyway, this is a glorious adaptation of "Oliver Twist." Mercifully, the entire Maylie chapters have been excised and it illustrates just how useless that subplot was in the novel when one doesn't miss it and the story survives complete and whole without it. OT was a serial, in papers and magazines, before it was compiled for a novel, and one feels that Dickens is dragging things out when he brings in the unacceptable coincidence of the Maylie family. Oliver barely has lines in the novel, either, so accusations of turning him into a silent waif are unfounded. Dickens was quite aware that he was using Oliver as a device to show us the hideous underbelly of Victorian London and that's what this film is about - Fagin, Sikes and Nancy, and the natural price one pays by being an outlaw... or murderer.

I do think that Monks' connection to Oliver has suffered in this adaptation, because one is never sure why he believes Oliver's inheritance is rightfully his. Also, the last shot of the house in Pentonville is too clean; I understand that this is supposed to be in direct contrast to the horrible grime we've been living in for nearly two hours, but there are no other people on the street and it all seems too sterile, almost as if shot in Beverly Hills.

Still, a masterpiece, both visually and narratively. GREAT EXPECTATIONS is actually a warmer, more popular, old fashioned film, but this second adaptation of Lean's will leave you looking at the world in a slightly different camera angle.