Pity, real pity that Spike Lee fails to bring out the potential of this film. But, keeping in mind, that this is based on a book, i doubt he could actually do much more with the story when the story is so full of holes in its original version.
  First of all, for the European audience there`s one thing that makes no sense from the get-go: we have this guy who gets busted with a sofa practically stuffed with weed and cash. He gets taken downtown for interrogation (mind you, by the DEA not just the cops) but, miraculously, he is given one last day of freedom before he can go on to serve 7 years in maximum security.
  Hmm...I dont know, but this is a possibility in the States, wouldnt at least half (if not 90%) of those given that "last day" option run off to Mexico or to Brasil???
  Even if that is really how things work out in the States , Spike Lee makes no effort to explain that to non-Americans so i, for example, was left with the feeling that i`m watching a plot that`s totally unconvincing from minute 1.
  Then there`s again this last day thingie: I mean, you have a last day before you for 2.555 days in jail and you spend it in a totally cheap way like the main character did? That would be believable if that main character was himself cheap, but he isn`t, au contraire, he`s portrayed as a very intelligent guy with a very human side. This very guy is shown going to some meaningless party where he can drink his brains out and then "go in"...Sorry but that just wont cut it.
  Shame then, because this film offers some truly great performances, namely, Edward Norton delivering in his usual superb style, and everybody else in the film following that suit in close distance.
  I was also left wondering what all the 9-11 themes were doing in this film. What was the connection??? In the end, this came through as yet another annoying "feature" of the film.
  Bottom line: with so many good assets this film fails, it fails on the plot, fails on the pace, fails on its individual components and their coherence. I blame Spike.