Crime in Paris 2010 is so bad that the government walls in the ghettos. Inside the walls the gangs rule and only the strong survive. One day a truck carrying a bomb is hijacked by the local evil crime boss and the government sends in their ace supercop, Damien, to try and save the day. Because Damien doesn't know the city, he has to team with a local resident, Leito, a guy who hates what's happened to his city and who rebels against the gangs and the drugs and the evil crime boss and who, as a result of his insurrection, has seen his sister kidnapped by the evil crime boss and apparently turned into a drug addled sex slave. Leito is in jail for trusting the corrupt police, so before Damien can do anything about retrieving the stolen bomb in District B13 he has to get Leito out of jail.

District B13 wasn't a bad movie, but I can't say that it was anything that great for me either. If you're in the mood for a comic book type action movie with little story, even less character development and a lot of action then you won't be disappointed with this movie.

There was a lot of action in District B13 and it was all backed up by a pulse pounding techno soundtrack. The movie also featured two good martial arts fights (I don't know who Cyril Raffaelli (Damien) or David Belle (Leito) are, but they were both fun to watch). I would have enjoyed a few longer fight sequences along the way, and while that's really a minor complaint, it's one that bothered me. When both the Leito and Damien characters were introduced, they each had their own incredible fight/action scenes. Both scenes were very good and very long and no fight scene later in the movie came close to those two early scenes. While the rest of the movie was good, I kept thinking that each subsequent action piece wasn't good in comparison to those two early scenes.

The movie turns preachy at the end which shaves a little bit off the Enjoyability Factor for me. It's not that the message was a bad one, it's just that the message seemed out of place in this type of movie and it got me thinking about something serious when I didn't have to do any type of thinking for the last 80 minutes. Finally, I also didn't care too much for the method in which the evil crime boss chose to imprison the kidnapped sister captive.

I recommend District B13 for anyone looking for a 90-minute escape and a lot of action. In French with English subtitles and an English dubbed soundtrack.