What can be said except that I want my money back. If you were to pay me to have watched this I might have walked out. It's astounding to me that anyone could have financed such a project... Cliche after cliche... some kind of a Kubrickian' nausea perhaps? What fresh hell is this. How can anything be so bleak and pointless...? What were the makers (the producers) thinking, are we hamsters? Lab rat's compartmentalized into submission... Lighten up-damn, this is not a horror movie (but it's certainly horrible) I could not stand it anymore, had to quit it; decided to write this review so that I wouldn't feel so completely raped. Weird is not the word... this crap is creepy beyond all recognition, if I ever meet the director of this fim I'm going to take my socks off soak them in rotten milk and slap him in the face with them> because that's how I feel right now... this film is a wet blanket on a chilly night. Lame, lame, lame.... a complete violation of human dignity, nothing about it (spare certain aspects of the set and perhaps elements of the curious cinematography) I'm no film critic; but this sucks. It's not a film it's a montage of spooky skits' centered around a vacuous script which lacks even the most basic story-line... what; ??? Am I supposed to think that this is really deep? ... a commentary on the state of the (new-age) institutional therapy scene...? It's like some twisted rehab in hell or some such holocaust. Whatever; it's boring and vague is what it is... and a waste of money and my time.

There you have it ; my condolences to the editors who had to endure pulling this thing 'together' from the abominable dailies they must have been handed. Good grief... never in my life.

Complete garbage. This should only be sold with a warning. Suicidal people should not be exposed to this material... It's not safe for consumption.

Ghastly stuff - to the makers; I recommend you take a break from whatever trip you've been on because this shit is depressing in a way that words cannot describe... pure sludge... the whole thing is menstrual.

Senseless drool.