This was a pretty good wrestlemania in my opinion. So, thanks for reading and please rate.

Unified Tag-Team championship
ShoMiz vs. John Morrison and R-Truth
This was a terrible tag team match. Truth barely got in it, Show made the match a bummer at the end with the huge knockout punch on Morrison, so, really, a terrible way to start off the bigest stage of them all, Wrestlemania.
1/10

Triple Threat Match
Randy Orton vs. Ted DiBiase vs. Cody Rhodes
This wasn't a half-bad match. I agreed with orton winning this one, i also agreed with some of the hard action in this match. There are some good moments like Orton moving out of the way and DiBiase diving on Rhodes, a huge punt to the head on Rhodes, and to end the match, a huge RKO on DiBiase. After the match, a nice ovation for Orton, and the return of the pose.
6.5/10

Money In The Bank Ladder Match
Kofi Kingston vs. Evan Bourne vs. Matt Hardy vs. Christian vs. Jack Swagger vs. Kane vs. Drew McIntire vs. Shelton Benjamin vs. MVP vs. Dolph Ziggler
This was a very good, but short highflying matchup. This was very exciting throughout the entire match and was very breath taking at some moments. Some huge moments in this match like a shooting star press off a ladder, a armbar suplex off the very top of a twenty foot ladder, and, Jack Swagger winning the match.
8/10

Triple H vs. Sheamus
This match was another short one, but was surprisingly ok. I liked this match, but with Sheamus being on the cover of Extreme Rules, this match could build up a rivalry between them and end up at Extreme Rules, But back to Wrestlemania, this match had its moments, but the biggest one was the pedigree out of nowhere.
5.5/10

CM Punk vs. Rey Mysterio
Now the stipulation to this match was that if Rey looses, then he would have to join the straight edge society, but Rey beat punk in only 6 minuets. This match wasn't as good as i thought it was going to be, and was very short as i pointed out earlier. So, this match was mostly a filler.
5/10

No Holds Barred
Bret "The Hitman" Hart vs. Mr.McMahon
This match wasn't very good at all really. Slow, brutal, and a tad boring, but vince was dominated throughout before the match was even started, during the match, and after the match. The sharpshooter returned, and Vince tapped out in seconds. This was a little boring, but everyone loved to see vince get beat the living crap out of.
7/10(only for the McMahon beating)

World Heavyweight Championship
Edge vs. Chris Jericho
I was so dissapointed with the winner of this match, but i saw that this was known as a impressive match with some good action from both men, and a few dirty tactics from Jericho. Some nice moments like Jericho going for a failed spear, the shot with the title belt to edge, and two huge codebreakers. Nice moment after the match when jericho gets speared off the announce table through the barricade.
8/10

Michelle McCool, Layla, Maryse, Alicia Fox, and Vickie Guerrero vs. Eve, Mickie James, Beth Phoenix, Kell Kelly, and Gail Kim
No Freakin Comment
0.5/10

WWE championship
John Cena vs. Batista
This was an ok match, i knew because of batista's heel turn, that this match would be a little slow paced. So, i was right, and this match turned out to be ok, i liked that Cena won with the STF, making batista finally tap after about a minuet. But this match had some moments, but didn't live up to its expectations.
7.5/10

No disqualification/No Countout-Streak vs. Career
Undertaker vs. Shawn Michaels
This was definatly the best match of the ppv again. This match was crazy with some very nice moments like a moonsault through the announce table, a tombstone on the outside, two tombstones, a huige slap to takers face after he yelled the words of the mania, "stay down". This match was just great all together, and has a very good ending with Michaels retireing with a nice ovation from the crowd, and undertaker becoming eighteen and o at wrestlmania.
10/10

Well, this wretlemania was better than last years, and has some pretty good matches.