Ah yes, the obligatory motivational sports movie, where adversity, tragedy and all impossible odds are overcome and is topped off by a sugar-coated Hollywood finale. Hmm, not quite in this case. Based on real events, We Are Marshall suceeds on the basis of its factuality, leading cast, and the fact it doesn't try to sweeten the deal with an ending far removed from the reality it's based upon. Despite this, the pacing is often problematic, and certain scenes wring the drama dry by virtue of the cliched performances therein.

The greatest bouyancy factor in this film is Matthew McConaughey himself, and is the perfect candidate for the coach who revives the team. The college president, David Straitharn, also pulls through and adds immensely, as does Anthony Mackey as Nate. Without them, however, the remaining characters are not suffused with enough character development to make them memorable. All the new players that are recruited are so one-dimensional it's downright pathetic, in fact. In other films of this ilk(Mighty Ducks comes to mind) the characters are given greater depth and add to the movie by their presence.  Here unfortunately, the new players are more like stage props; nothing is added, other than the obvious existence of a football team.

Pacing can destroy even the best of films, but done properly, it can salvage even the most stinking wreck of celluloid. Unfortunately, We Are Marshall is far closer to the former. The more dramatic scenes jump awkwardly from one to another, interspersed with the occasional scene of irony or comedy. The interaction between Chris's girlfriend and his father, for example are too undistinguished to be effective. There is nothing to elaborate on their relationship, only the memory of their loss which is never pursued beyond "the ring". Adding to the irony is the ending itself, which despite being a powerful clincher, proves that this film would have been even more powerful as a documentary, given the heart-wrenching course of events it's based upon.

While this is not to say the movie shouldn't have been made, it wasn't overly necessary either. If I was to rate this movie on its comparative handling of most other hollywood sports films "based on true events" I would have given it 5 stars. But viewed objectively, there is too many shortcomings to allow me to be blindsided by the tragic subject matter.