Micmacs is a small, french film that must be viewed in the theater to produce the smallest amount of joy. In no way is this an interactive film as The Rocky Horror how is, but in witnessing the laughter of members of the audience, it may be possible to endure this film with a skeptical grin.

Micmas is a jumbled mess that involves the orphaned Bazil who is in critical condition after being hit by a gunshot, but miraculously survives. Having lost job, and with no prior savings, he is forced to hit the streets and find his living through unconventional methods. To his good luck he meets the Slammer, himself an ex-con, who introduces him to a group of individuals, with varied talents, who have chosen to live in a dump. Varyingly artistic and athletic, these individuals choose to adopt Bazil by way of an obscure selection process. Bazil eventually becomes aware of identity of the individuals and organization(s) who were responsible for nearly ending his life. Unable to take action by himself, he enlists the talents of his new brothers and sisters in divulging the true identity of these despicable people.

Director Jean-Pierre Jeunet is well known for his exquisite characters studies, but going awry devotes little time on his characters in this picture. It actually seems like Jeunet has no interest in developing these characters as Bazil and his new-found characters lack personality; all that is known is that one of them is an artist, the other a contortionist and etc. Not only does this limited information make them seem superficial, but also unable the actors to give better performances. For their characters to become convincing and pleasant the actors have to deliver bombastic and overblown performances to conceal their weakly written characters.

Jeunet has admitted that Micmacs was largely influenced by silent comedy with scenes that seem to be replicas of the old comedy masters-such as Buster Keaton. Were Chaplin, Keaton,  and Lloyd were whimsical, Jeunet is overindulgent and lacks the sense of control in guiding the comedic elements. Rather than serving as an administrator over the picture, he is too absorbed by the gags and special effects to comprehend where whimsy becomes just becomes wasteful and pathetic. Silent comedy functions greatly, to this day, because their humor is substitutes for their shortage of dialogue. Micmacs uses comedy to conceal its weakness in storytelling.

With the Home Alone series families received a unique experience as the envisioned gags of the series, despite their excessive nature, were so basic in their conception that they still remained hilarious. Micmacs's gags are as excessive as the Home Alone series, but are also substantially sophistication. The success of the gags is impressive, but is undercut by the realization that there must have been a dozen easier methods of completing the mission of the film. The gags are so flawless that it seems that the raw materials for these gags are always too conveniently within the reach of our heroes. The gags are exquisitely done, but their technical value pales when it is realized that Jeunet's attempt is to carry the film on the weight of the gags alone.

Micmacs is among those cute, little, French films that Jeunet, as the director of Amelie, has proved more than able to conceive time and time again. The difference is that unlike his other films, in this instance he lacks an approach. Many may find the film funny, but as a whole Micmacs is a hallow mess.