There is reason to believe that the conjecture of the reviewer M. S. Anderson, who awarded this film three stars, is right. He thinks that the professorial class is keeping this movie alive. My own experience confirms that suspicion. I have lost count of the number of journal articles and encyclopedia entries that contain unrestrained praise for this film and especially for its signature clich&eacute;: the solemnly ironic line about printing the legend when the legend becomes fact. As if newspapers routinely print the truth!

Yet one searches in vain--either in academic analyses or in the hundred-plus four- and five-star Amazon reviews--for references to the film that point out that the sets look like fiberboard structures on the studio's back lot, that characterization is shallow and predictable, that the script is trite and sits clumsily on the tongue, that O'Brien and many other supporting players are inadequate or worse, and that Stewart and Wayne are not alone in being almost thirty years too old for their parts. Fortunately, the video's production, while by no means outstanding, is acceptable enough to give first-time viewers an adequate sense of what a theatrical showing would, for better or worse, look and sound like.

John Ford's best movies seldom have two-dimensional villains; instead, they tend to have characters whose principles and actions, while often reasonable and defensible, clash with those of the hero or heroes. So what, then, is one to make of the villain here, as played by Lee Marvin? He is so evil that he dresses entirely in black and even carries a whip. One might reasonably ask whether Ford expected audiences to tremble or to laugh at him. Clearly, the character of Valance was in the director Elliot Silverstein's mind when, several years later, he cast Marvin in an Academy Award-winning double role in the still amusing <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00004TJQK">Cat Ballou</a>. Yet none of the admirers of Liberty Valance have drawn attention to this connection, which is surely worthy of some note.

Many of those who first saw The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance in its initial run almost fifty years ago now (I was one of them) judged it an undistinguished movie, less an ornament than an embarrassment to its director and stars. It should be permitted to ride off into the sunset, never to be heard from again. Yet the members of the professoriate, the radical environmentalists of American popular culture, insist that it be forcibly recycled through the captive minds of America's young, a large number of whom seem now, alas, to be devoted to bestowing five stars on one-star films and to proclaiming unhelpful those who disagree with them.