So I accepted that Godzilla just isn't Godzilla and watched the movie and I actually really liked it. Until half way into the film when they kill off Godzilla and leave us with a bad Jurassic park. It's almost step by step the original Jurassic Park in side the museum when the raptors are chasing the boy and girl.  Even the way the baby Godzillas interact, with them snapping at each other with a neck curl.

So as a Godzilla fan I found myself bored and wanting to see a big monster destroying the city not little babies fully developed running around trying to eat the humans because they smelled like fish.  That also made me sad; that they had to justify the little tikes eating the humans by saying the smelled like fish and not saying they just hatched from their eggs and are hungry for some meat, which happens to be man meat.

The films cute and if your not a fan of the original its fun and great for kids my friend raised on it, knowing it line by line watched it with me and he still loved it. It's a good take on the American portrayal of Godzilla, and it still had little tid bits for us fans it just forgot what the fans come to watch.

One thing i feel that this film handled so well was the love for the beast and the sadness of it creation.  that it will have to die for humans to live.  this part of the film i felt was amazing and very true to godzilla.

For me I love Godzilla and as a kid anytime he was on screen I would run over to the TV and sit about a foot away, but there was also the great stories between the characters.  The boyfriend in Godzilla vs. Monster Zero trying to impress his girlfriend brother so he can marry her, and when he is the one that figures out how to stop the destruction the brother looks at him with such anger.  It's amazing.  There isn't anything like this in this movie and that's why in my option it falls short.  Never giving us anything to hold onto.  Nothing more mature then a teenage drama that as a kid, I had no interest in, and now as an adult I find it immature and boring.

But now as a fan there are the Sony classic releases where they're releasing all the originals with the Japanese cuts and American cuts which are great.  Again this film is ment for people that aren't fans, and if so enjoy it a good American big monster movie with some amazing CGI when it was made and still is very impressive.  Just remember there is more to the big guy then him just wanting to eat fish.