Ok. Let me get down to business. Darwin was wrong. Had evolution truly existed, this stinker would have gone the way of the dinosaur. 
Ivan Reitman has lost his touch. "Evolution" is not another "Ghostbusters" as many people have said, but instead a sorry mess of "Men in black" "Mars attacks" and "Dude, where's my car?"-ish scenes.
David Duchovny plays Ira Kane, a failed biologist, who discovers a life form that crashed in the Arizona Desert on a meteor. (Keep in mind that we later find out that Kane's experimental anthrax vaccine gave a couple thousand soldiers erectile dysfunction, so we know it'll be immature)  Along with a babe-chasing geologist, Dr. Block (Orlando Jones) and a country-club crackhead, Wayne (Sean William Scott) Kane tries to stop the alien life-form from evolving into cheesy creatures that take over the city. Eventually it evolves into worms, insects (of which one is removed from Dr. Block's rectum in a ridiculous "Matrix"-style sequence.) and dragon-like creatures that rampage shopping malls. Alison Reed (Julianne Moore) plays the film's sex object- a garter-belt-wearing dumb blonde scientist who falls over in nearly every scene in which she appears.  She joins the trio in what has to be one of the worst scientific fallacies made. A useless student protest, a romance with the chemistry of a couple of boiled cabbages, Dan Ackroyd as an incompetant fascist governor who has the strange authority to call in the army to pump the meteor's cave full of napalm, Duchovny's childlike use of the periodic table and the way biologists are stereotyped as a bunch of woman-chasing boneheads had me ranting, not laughing.  The movie is also full of canonical teenage jokes- The occasional boob crack or racial slur, and an absulutely stupid scene at the end in where our science geniuses, assisted by two fat flunkouts, give a giant mutated blob an enema with dandruff shampoo. Ivan Reitman, who directed some brilliant movies,  is ready to direct low-budget sitcoms after this. And congratulations, Mr. Duchovny, you just shot your career in the gonads. A waste of time, a waste of money, and a waste of film constitutes what I'd call the quintessential "De-evolution" of filmmaking.