I agree with the other reviews as far as the positive points of Chobits are concerned, so I won't go into detail therein.  Instead I'll concentrate on the negatives as follows:

5 stars - for the series overall (per other positive reviews)

Minus 1 star - for the usual Anime Male Idiot as a main character: a thoroughly aggravating, gynephobic, neurotic, socially crippled moron.  He starts coming to his senses in some of the later episodes, but not soon enough to salvage the 1 star penalty.

Minus 1 star - for a weak series finale.  This came as no surprise to me, really.  Anime writers seem incapable of providing any kind of believable closure, either happy or sad.  They even foul up the ambiguous endings - the ones they intend to be ambiguous, that is.

Don't worry about real spoilers here.  Without going into details about the exact nature of the happy vs. sad vs. ambiguous ending of Chobits, I can safely reveal that the finale has at least two manufactured crises (as in, "So what?  What's the problem, all of a sudden?"), three totally arbitrary miracles, and a few meaningless setbacks to enable efficient switching back and forth between positive and negative outcomes - not necessarily in that order, so as not to spoil the ending for you.

In addition, there are contradictory references to a series of books that "Chi" has been reading throughout the series.  The message of the books, somewhat consistent up until the last few epsiodes, suddenly starts reversing back and forth between happy vs. sad outcomes in tone.  In short, it all makes the presence of that book in the series utterly meaningless.

Then there is the mysterious "Syndicate" (or something like that) behind the development of the "Chobits" robots.  It seems like a pretty ominous group, not to be taken lightly.  Yet its presence is completely lacking in the last episode.  There are some "enemies" of sorts present, but their connection to this "Syndicate", even if there is such a connection, is not adequately explained.  Not to me, anyway.

Finally, there is some inexplicable activity on the part of one of the inventors of the special class of "Chobits" robots of which "Chi" is a member.  Like the book "Chi" has been reading, the inventor's agenda seems consistent up until the last few episodes.  Then she too reverses and re-reverses her role so often that you wonder why she was included in the series in the first place.

OK, I went into the weak series ending at some length, probably unnecessarily so.  Anime fans are already familiar with botched series finales like this one.

And despite the length and content of both negative criticisms, these faults do not completely destroy the series.  They can't, because it really is that good overall.  If you're reading this review and it dissuades you from watching Chobits, don't be discouraged.  Those positive points explored by other reviewers make it well worth viewing, negative stars notwithstanding (heck of a modifier, that last one - almost like something that can and can't stand up at the same time.  I wonder....).

In addition, there is a final closure of sorts - it just doesn't follow from anything else that happens in the finale (I see from other reviews that the Manga version of the series clears up some of the conundrums in that last episode)

I will say one good thing about the finale: when the Male Idiot becomes perturbed over an actual crisis for a change, he doesn't get a nosebleed from the excitement, wave his arms around like a windmill, or suffer the stock anime "face wipe" used to designate panic attacks.  He actually behaves the way a real person would when confronted by such an emergency.  That's rare in an Anime.

Watch "Chobits".  It's fun, heartwarming, etc, and really funny when "Chi" is mimicking the Male Idiot's antics in her attempts to learn how to behave.  Who knows, you may even disagree with my assessment of the finale.  You'll agree with my criticisms of the Male Idiot though - I can guarantee that.

PS: the music is nice too.

UpRight Ape