My instinct to revisit this cinematographic experience was prompted by its near-controversial debate in a recent film festival back in Singapore... ... of how a motion picture produced more than twenty years ago continues  to shock with its 'sexually explicit' content, and an almost hopeless  proposition for the local censorship board to re-evaluate its opinion  regarding the film's public release; submitted by 'crusaders for the arts'  from a Singaporean film society.
Those in favour of the said release  demanded for both government and people (in general) to promote a culture  whereby art, in all its various forms and representations, could be  embraced with a 'cosmopolitanly matured' attitude. The opposition on the  other hand, implied the film to be sheer pornography, a 'meaningless'  picture with zero cultural or moral substance.
While I do personally feel  sceptical about the feasibility of its public release, I also do frown upon  the latter opinions. This film should, and could be publicly released to  any population, subject to its cultural susceptibility to artistic  induction...whereby the majority can interpret the arts and differing  culture, perspectorial realms and backgrounds...for this film, in short; a  people that can siphon the sex from the subliminally realistic and  disturbing body...which is both dark and true to the core... something that  most minds living under seemingly autocratically dictatorial affiliating  bodies (i.e. a stern cultural censor) will fail to grasp.
This film  provokes both intense and passionate emotions, which amidst the implied  sexual propagation, highlights a humane agenda of varying extremes. Its  subtle message can only be decoded by a culturally adept and mature  audience. It describes unpretentiously, the nether regions of the human  mind and the expressive fantasies that are within its dark fathoms.
For  those who (honestly) view this film as nothing but a pornographic title,  they have all missed the bottomline and the whole story  altogether.
Director Oshima has successfully created a film which  demonstrates human emotions at levels that are deemed socially incorrect to  many and incomprehensible by most. One can empathise also with those who  refuse to accept the actual message out of both shame and disgust, a piety  induced by many cultures. 
I salute the country's effort in sustaining  her nation's moral integrity. Alas, the opposite can only be said about the  statutory body/ies that continually preaches its efforts in promoting  international culture so as to realise and enhance a 'cosmopolitanly adept'  nation; while being extremely conservative in its seemingly  holier-than-thou judgements over the past years.