Wayne Wang is just an embarrasement to "Chinese" film-makers.
The overall story of Chinese Box is a love-story wrapped around the Chinese and English cultural encounter in Hong Kong around 1997,  but just like Joy Luck Club, it's so full of stereotyping it's terrifying.  I cannot conceive of viewing it as a love story or as a cultural  exposition. Throughout the story, characters who are supposed to have led a  life of exodus or growing, similar to people I see around me daily, are so  bizzare I almost yelled: "they are not real  people".
Essentially, I find it very hard not to consider the  cultural aspect, since Wang spend so much time moving around Hong Kong in a  handheld video camera. But his Hong Kong is composed simply of stylish  upper class composing mainly of expatriates and then all lower-class folks,  as if there was nothing in between. And I mean it, there was nothing.  Jeremy Irons' John has close to no HK friends, no social life, and is only  interested in Hong Kong as a dump. He lives in a dump, films the dumps, and  his only other incarnation is a reporter who writes about the economy?  which Wang didn't go sufficiently deeply into. You might say he is just an  eccentric person, but there are enough disturbing scenes of the Hong Kong  society in this movie that worries me, because ultimately John's journey  becomes the reality for people who are not familiar with Hong Kong. I'm  very disturbed with such lack of depth as Paul Theorux is also credited for  story and he has written a lengthy monograph on Hong Kong. If that's Mr  Theorux's Hong Kong, then I'm even more worried. Still, as a Hong Konger, I  cannot help taking this subject matter personally. The Hong Kong, and even  the overall mood of the changeover, is grossly inaccurate, with incorrect  events made solely to terrify the audience, making it a lot less valuable  as a "Chinese Box" because it might as well be called  "Jupiter Box" and it wouldn't be less funny.
The cultural  essays are also very disturbing. Gong's character is so paper-thin (not her  body shape) you could knock her down with a brush. Here you have a new  immigrant who rise in society using her body, and now owns a bar, again  with no close associates or connections to talk of. Without that life,  which happens in the middle of the story, she could only revert back to  becoming a low-life? And in the end of the story she appears in her full  glory in a high-class event, unexplained. This flip-flopping does not  magics make, just amazement. I have never seen Gong in such an  unchallenging role (acting-wise). To argue for the screenplay, I have to  say the writer may have simplified her life. But, as someone who knows the  Hong Kong society first-hand, first, "the stigma of her past"  does not ruin her life -- not in Hong Kong, and, second, there are just too  many opportunities in Hong Kong to believe an ex-bar-owner can only lead  the life of a prostitue. I am not about to criticise a writer's artistic  license. However, this is definitely a cultural bias, no less disturbing  then that found in "Joy Luck Club". Because, believe it or not,  Chinese women are very strong! You can see that in most of Gong Li's or  Wong Kar-wai's movies.
The cultural bias goes on and on, with a story  around Maggie Cheung whose life is ruined because of a love relationship  with a ex-colonial son. That was just so incredible. I don't think I need  to go into that because everybody knows that's fairy tale, at least  everybody in Hong Kong. Maybe true a long long time ago ...
Ultimately,  it seems that Wang's characters are typically pick out of Hong Kong  melodrama movies in around '50s-'60s, when stereotypical tear-jerkingly sad  characters were very successful. But life just isn't that simple, and I  thought modern day film-makers are already beyond that. Even judging it  merely as a love story, I find it less than interesting, cardboard figures,  with a Western moralistic hero falling head over heel for his Chinese doll,  who couldn't love him, and then have to. God, that's ... that's ... that's  so Wayne Wang, such an embarrassment. And to think he was born in Hong  Kong.
Maybe -- just maybe, if the movie was set in the '20s or '30s Hong  Kong, then it could have been acceptable.
One thing is clear, Wang is  incapable of making movies about places he's never lived in.