I am a huge Celtic Thunder fan, and have been following them since I first accidentally discovered them on PBS.  I loved the Celtic and traditional songs and harmonies of their first shows.

Although my DVD does not seem to have the sound problems of some of the others, I have several other dislikes.

1) Absolutely hated the girl singing Jesse James.  She had no place in the group. Her harsh voice and looks clashed terribly with Keith's gentle demeanor and beautiful voice.  She was terribly mismatched with Keith.
2) Hated the dance productions.  They were amateur at best and did nothing to improve or highlight the lads' talents.  Paul's was marginally professional, but nothing better than you would see in your local town theater group.
3) The DVD clearly is not the whole show.  This is an absolute disgrace.  Whether or not I like the show, there are enough people that do, that they should at least get to see the show in its' entirety.
4) The audience shots did not improve anything.
5) I know I'm in the minority, but I don't know why Neil is being brought forward. Why mess with a winning formula?  Yes, he has a nice voice, but it really wasn't necessary.  You already have five beautifully harmonized voices.
6) Originally, the joviality amongst the lads onstage looked natural, so when you saw them laughing and joshing with each other it seemed spontaneous (even if it wasn't and was rehearsed).  In this show, everything looks so forced and unnatural.

Actually, the only one who looked like he was having any fun was Ryan!  Oh, and Keith when he was playing his guitar, although once again, his required staging and choreography sadly detracted from his playing.

I'm really sorry to be writing a negative review as I was very excited to be getting a new DVD and eagerly awaiting the new show in the Fall.  I follow CT religiously on their website, fb, twitter, fan forums - you name it.  So this is a HUGE disappointment to me.

Sharon, as producer, I have to think that you are where the buck stops - I really think that you would do better getting this group of talented young men back to what got them their fans in the first place.  Sephira is a nice addition to the boys, as are the rest of the original backing band, but that is seriously all you need.  Please leave it that way.