Seeing so many 4 and 5 star reviews on here, I'm inclined to think some folks from HBO have passed through this to inflate the rating. This movie stunk in every way imaginable! Making a movie from this excellent book is a difficult task, no doubt. I therefore wasn't expecting it to follow every detail accurately; but it just got plain ridiculous with the liberties they took to make this into film. For example,Vann rushes to the US embassy during Tet to help fight off the VC. When a monk imolates himself, Vann is standing right there watching. A village is bombed with napalm (in a transparent attempt to reenact the famous photo of the naked and burned young girl running down the road); of course Vann is driving up in his jeep to witness this. There's too many exagerations like these, seemingly thrown in to show the audience events that they're more familiar with. The conversations between Vann and US brass or ARVN officers are overly simplistic and serve only to set the stage for an upcoming corny action scene. Everything is just distilled down to cliches and it makes for an unrealistic and inaccurate story.

For the events they could have really poured their attention into (such as the Ap Bac battle) we're left with some of the worst battle sequences you'll see in a modern movie. I couldn't force myself to watch all of the Battle of Kontum at the end because I was so bored already; so maybe it got better in the last 15 minutes of the movie. But I wouldn't count on it. They couldn't even get the feel right for the scenes in Saigon or in village hamlets. I felt like I was watching something on a Hollywood set and not on location. Everyone in Saigon looks more like they're standing in breezy Southern California instead of a muggy and hot city in Vietnam.

The writers of this movie did a very cheesy job of trying to explain something as complex as John Vann and the Vietnam War and probably shouldn't have tried. It's all been dumbed down to the point of embarassment. They would have been better off just making a fictional character and focusing on a more specific aspect of the war. Combine an awful script with a made-for-tv budget and you get garbage like this film.