Let it first be said that I think Quentin Tarantino is one of the best living directors we have. He is so good, indeed, that he has developed on one hand a fan base that is fanatically devoted to him and an equally passionate crowd of detractors who think he's insufferable and can't stand him. There's rarely a middle ground to rest your feet on with Tarantino, because his talents are so undeniable that when they do not inspire adoration, they inspire jealousy. He has made four films in fifteen years, and yet his body of work as of today is enough to place him in any conversation about the most skilled muses of our generation.

However, one must avoid the temptation to declare everything he touches to be gold. Granted, Pulp Fiction was a mind-bending slice of LA sleaze (and a terrific comedy of manners), Jackie Brown was a wonderfully well-crafted, heartfelt crime film, and Kill Bill was an epic meditation on just about everything there is to love about film. But Tarantino's first film, Reservoir Dogs, was a skillful throwaway that is consistently entertaining but never compelling. It's nothing special, and it should be considered nothing but a jumping off point for a director whose talents were developing but had yet to come to fruition.

The plot has been described a thousand times by a thousand different reviewers, so I'll keep it simple (not a difficult task, considering that it IS simple). The story concerns four thieves, hired by a rough old gangster and his devoted son to rob a jewelry store. Predictably, everything goes wrong, and we gradually piece together what happened. Seems one of the thieves was an undercover cop, and the would-be robbers were set up to go down. As the survivors of the bungled heist gather in a warehouse and wait for their companions, we learn what kind of men we're dealing with.

Well, sort of. Actually, we learn only just enough to understand why they end up turning on one another. These are not people; they're walking character traits, perfectly aligned to conflict with one another. We have the undercover cop, the psychopath, the too-trusting guy, the practical weasel, the daddy's boy, and the hardened professional. That's all we have. The most sympathetic character in the movie is the cop. Why is he sympathetic? Well... because he's a cop. Tarantino doesn't really ask us to care when the too-trusting guy defends the undercover cop against the hardened criminal, backed up by the daddy's boy. He just wants us to admire how neatly he's set everything up.

Reservoir Dogs is nothing if not neat. The movie keeps us on our toes, as we learn what happened at the jewelry store, what each of the men was up to at what time, how they came to be hired for the job, and what aspect of their character is going to be brought out in the desperate circumstances that unfold. We know very little about each man, but we know that one character is so loyal to another that another character will not believe yet another character when the latter tells a lie that is founded on the alleged disloyalty of the first guy. We know that the psychopath should not be left alone with the cop. We feel omniscient when things happen exactly as Tarantino has set them up to happen. Everything has an air of inevitability, and everything logically follows from what has happened before. All very neat. All very well put together. Every role is acted well, and every character comes to life in his limited capacity.

But who are these men? Why should we care about them? Reservoir Dogs is famous for a particularly brutal tortune scene. I was less moved by its brutality than its emptiness. I wanted to know, for example, how the character doing the torturing came to find himself enjoying the process. Where did his sadism come from? Tarantino doesn't tell us. The torturer is a pawn, his actions serving as an impetus for decisive action on the part of a character that we've all but forgotten about. Which brings up a plot point. Which... well, you get the idea.

Basically, this film needed about forty more minutes of characterization, so that the people in the film feel less like pawns in an omniscient directors scheme and more like real people, whose actions we can understand, who draw our sympathy, who we give a damn about. Tarantino's first film was a well-oiled machine, but a machine nonetheless. It has all the emotional content of a billiards game, and proceeds just as geometrically. The balls all end up in the appropriate holes, and you admire the hand that set them in motion to end up there, but, well, it's hard to become invested in the action.

Tarantino would soon move on to much bigger, much better things.

Rated R: contains almost comically excessive gun violence (low body count, but people bleed a LOT in this film, to dramatic detriment-- the movie's violence often inspires incredulous laughs at points at which it can least afford to do so), a torture scene that isn't explicit, but is still uncomfortable to sit through, and strong language throughout.

Footnote: Tarantino is rumored to have been considering a spin-off prequel to his first two films involving the character of Vic Vega from RD and his brother, Vincent, from Pulp Fiction. This is a spectacularly good idea; RD doesn't let us know much about its characters, but a prequel featuring one of them would certainly deepen the events that take place in Quentin's first film.