Inspired by the Japanese movie (released in the United States as ANTARTICA), which was based upon the true story of a 1958 Japanese expedition, the real antecedent of this movie is Egerton R. Young's marvelous memoir of his dogsled team, first published in 1902.  This was the first book to detail the different personalities among dogs and the first to describe their work ethic and sense of responsibility.

Jack London acknowledged his debt to Egerton Young's memoirs (among other sources) which he took to craft the dogsled team in THE CALL OF THE WILD, something missing in the various incarnations of the novel on film.  EIGHT BELOW captures the real intelligence of siberian huskies (well, two of them are malamutes) better than any movie I've ever seen.  Sure, this is just a movie and tricks were used to make it appear that these dogs do what they seem to do.  But huskies do smile, laugh, worry, think, and bond--and if you don't agree, then you just don't know them.

Yes, there are some sentimental and maudlin moments in this film, but there is also a sense of naturalism and a declaration of personal responsibility.  An adventure film that is rare and welcome and worth seeing again.

The musical score is beautiful and nicely edited to fit the mood of each scene, ambient but not overwhelming.  Both humans and dogs are underplayed, and it struck me as a movie for adults who can use their imagination to fill in the gaps in understated dialogue and character development.  The beauty of the scenery is often breathtaking.

It was a nice touch that one of the dogs, the oldest, is named Jack, and one is named Buck.  Buck was also the name of the protagonist in THE CALL OF THE WILD and Jack was the name of Egerton Young's real dog upon which Buck was based.  Of course it may be just a coincidence.

The other dogs include the twins, Truman and Dewey (a Democrat and a Republican), Shorty, Max, Shadow, and sweet Maya, the lead dog.  Dog people will have no trouble distinguishing between them.

Those who love this film might be also interested in Egerton Young's MY DOGS OF THE NORTHLAND, Jack London's THE CALL OF THE WILD, edited and annotated by Daniel Dyer, and Gary Paulsen's WINTERDANCE: THE FINE MADNESS OF RUNNING THE IDITAROD.