The Girlfriend Experience has a really decent plot - it's about how Sasha Grey plays an escort who ends up spending a lot of her time listening to men instead of just having sex with them. It shows some of the issues about being an escort as well as the fact that men can take advantage of you and you can't do anything since it's illegal. The plot ended up being decent.

However, after watching this movie, I was left wondering if I had just wasted my time. It's a decent movie, but I feel like it's something I'd only want to have watched if I was bored - not to take time out of my day and watch it. The acting was good which is something I wasn't expecting from Sasha Grey. The storyline was pretty good as well. I just feel like the action moves really slowly - sometimes we sit on one scene with Sasha speaking to another person for at least ten minutes. It just makes the movie move really slowly.

Along with that, there was the actual movie. I know this is more of an indie movie than anything else, but the odd timeline of this movie made it harder to enjoy. That is, the creators skipped around a lot in the movie. First we'd see the end of the movie, then the beginning, then the end, then the middle, then the beginning, and so-on and so forth. At the beginning, you are going to be downright confused and may think this is a giant waste of your time. Towards the middle, it starts to make more sense, and at the end, it actually all comes together. Only to cut off too abruptly. The entire movie is based around Sasha Grey falling for one of her clients and her relationship with her boyfriend. We never actually end up finding out what happens with her relationship with her boyfriend - it's a sore spot with me since without that information, I feel like learning about the entire plot was a waste of time.

However, if you are looking for watching Sasha Grey act, wanting to see an Indie film that will make you think about the sex worker business, or just want to enjoy a film that will keep you talking afterwards, check out the Girlfriend Experience.