One of the greatest films about war. The greatest about the Viet Nam War. Even though there are only three women in the cast and their on screen time is very limited, their roles are pivotal  and their performances are outstanding as are all the males in the cast. This is one of the most superb casting jobs ever. Dozens of terrific performances.

The movie has two basic parts; Stateside at Boot Camp and The Other side of the World in Viet Nam, running time being split pretty much down the middle. Within these parts are many chapters.

Boot Camp breaksdown into Introductions, Programming, Unity,  Graduation, Realization. R. Lee Ermey gives the performance of a lifetime as the barracks Drill Instructor in charge of turning a group of raw recruits into killing machines. His method to achieve this transformation is all-at-once hilarious and horrifying. The results are mostly scary. (Be careful of review spoilers.)

Viet Nam breaksdown into Playtime, Workplace, Rebellion, The Ride There and the S--t. The S--t has it's own breakdown but I won't elaborate. But I will say that if you read between the lines this movie examines the hell of Viet Nam from the soldier's POV better than any other. There's a very eye-opening scene where the platoon is being interviewed by a correspondent from Stars and Stripes. Unlike a lot of the other reviewers I find the second part (Viet Nam) of the movie to be the more potent half. The first half is funnier and possibly easier to relate to but it's the second half that has the real message(s). About our relationship to the world and vice versa and how we fought and how they fought in an unjustifiable conflict. What it meant to them and what didn't it mean to us.

This movie is unsettling and unromanticized. It pulls no punches. To use a phrase from the movie it is "hardcore".

Only All Quiet on the Western Front and Starship Troopers are equals to Full Metal Jacket on this subject of "man and war". It's a shame Stanley Kubrick didn't live for a hundred more years and make another twenty movies. He teaches us so much. He makes us think. If you haven't seen them be sure to see Paths of Glory, Dr.Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, A Clockwork Orange and the greatest movie ever made 2001:A Space Odyssey.