The Abyss is one of the best films I have ever seen. Every word in the script has a meaning to it, and the relationship between Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio ends up saving the day. The cinematography is  compelling; and it is so vivid that if it were to be put in IMAX format,  you'd feel like you are actually swimming around 30,000 feet under the  ocean's surface. I like this movie because it does something which I feel  is unique. The real plot is about the creatures living deep within the  abyss, and the subplot is the recovery mission. But unlike Aliens--a movie  that within fifteen minutes was filled with swearing, fire, blood, and a  lot of noise--Cameron makes the audience stew a little before the real  purpose of the movie is uncovered. The movie begins with a submarine being  ambushed by a UFO--"underwater flying object"--and since the navy  does not know what happened--they suspect "the Russians"--Cameron  does not feel the need to reveal to anyone (including his characters) that  there is something waiting for them in the dark depths of the ocean. Just  when you thought the movie would be near a predictable end, along comes the  bait-and-hook of a sighting. It leaves the audience wondering "What  was that? Why is he showing this and then taking it away?" There is  the movie's charm! Cameron gives you what you need to understand the motive  of the aliens' appearances, while keeping you in suspense as to when you  will finally get to the point of their existence.
You have to have  patience with the movie, though. The pace may be a little slow, but then  again, who cares? The effects are fantastic and the performances are  magnificent.  The slowness of the pace, in my opinion, is to see how long  YOU can last underwater. The characters are people who pretty much make a  living underwater. If in three hours of seeing nothing but a closed in  frame that is the difference between life and 100,000 lbs of pressure  crushing your fragile body, then working on a deep-sea oil rig is not for  you.
But in honesty, Cameron lost my respect after Titanic. (I will not  be reviewing Titanic right now, don't worry.) The Abyss was a fantastic  movie that is at the peak of Cameron's career, and I cannot see how the  person that created such a magnificent work of art went ahead and did  something as pointless as a script that 90% of the words were  "Jack" and "Rose." If you ask me, Cameron should have  retired after this movie. I will be very very suprised if he ever even  comes close to matching this wonderful masterpiece of cinema.