I just saw this movie last week.
It was pretty good, but I wouldn't say that it was brilliant. The acting was solid all around, and a lot of people will find it very moving, emotionally. It did have some very clever/funny scenes. I liked it, but I also felt that it dragged a bit, and, for me, some of the plot devices seemed very contrived. (Sarah Polley apparently followed the Alice Munro story very closely, so this may not be entirely her fault). In many ways, it is a very typical Canadian movie - about 3/4 of the way through the film, I started to get bored, squirm in my seat, and wonder how much more there was left to go. A lot of Canadian films tend to be preachy, and over-long. That's kind of how I felt at the end of this. (If you want to see a really engaging movie that was filmed in Canada rent Snow Cake - it's about autism, and it was very well done).
My main problem with Away From Her was the central storyline of the film, namely the relationship between Julie Christie's character and the fellow at Meadowlake. To me, the entire thing seemed unbelievable, as did the notion that Julie's character would completely forget her husband in only 30 days. I know Alzheimer's patients, and when they've been married for 20 or 30 years, their spouses seem to be the one thing that they DO tend to remember, at least for the first stretch.
There has been a lot of hype surrounding this movie, because this was Sarah Polley's first film. She's the darling of Canadian filmmakers, who seem to believe that she can do no wrong - and her talent has been somewhat exaggerated. I think she's a bit overrated, to be frank. (Even as an actress, I thought she was somewhat overrated). This movie was a solid first attempt. However, it was not brilliant, by any means. (David Lean was brilliant - Sarah Polley is merely good).
In summary: this movie is worth seeing, but not owning. I would suggest that you rent it ahead of time, to see for yourself if it's the kind of film you will want to watch over and over again, before you decide to buy it.