I have to warn you, I was a huge Scooby Doo fan as a child. But I really hated the first Scooby Doo movie. I mean, Scrappy Doo is the villain and there were real monsters? And all those fart jokes as well as Rowan "Mr. Bean" Atkinson was really annoying too. This was definitely not the Scooby Doo I remembered. So, I skipped Doo 2 when it hit the cinemas and finally watched it on HBO.

I had really low expectations for Scooby Doo 2, but guess what..it's not as bad as I thought it would be. This time around, the story is truer to the orginal Scooby Doo cartoon series and that's what probably saved this turkey. Mystery Inc. is doing very well and they are opening an exhibition of ghost costumes from every mystery they solved. Of course, someone comes along (looks like a cross between Sauron and a knight) and creates havoc. He steals the costumes and plans to make those costumes come to life, thus the "Monsters Unleashed" in the movie title. There are a number of assorted characters, from a devious reporter to a former villain and even the museum curator. Who's the mastermind? The villain will be unmasked at the end of the movie, just like in the cartoons and it's a pretty fun ride reaching there.

The story is nothing to shout about. I knew who the villain was about 15 minutes into the show, but then again this is Scooby Doo...not some Alfred Hitchcock story. So, what it should bank on is it's humour and entertainment value, and thank goodness they did a better job here than with Scooby Doo 1. As the movie progressed, I remembered the time when I was young and loved the cartoon, and that's a good sign. In fact, the whole movie had a very cartoon-y feeling to it. The gang were decent enough. I'm always amazed to see Matthew Lillard as Shaggy, he has such an uncanny resemblence to Shaggy, it's amazing...his voice, his look...everything! Most people have problems with Fred and Daphne, I personally had no problems with them...I guess people just see Freddie Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle Gellar instead of their characters because they're such big stars. But they were never the main attraction in Scooby Doo, so it's alright. The supporting cast seemed to be having a good time as well. A small note, very impressive work from the CG department. This was one of the reasons the movie didn't suck. It was implemented really well.

In short, I won't say that Scooby Doo 2 was hilarious or superb, but I did smile here and there as the movie went along and it did bring some memories to me. I liked the "feel" of the movie, with it's eerie mansions, secret passages, masked villains with some evil sub-plot...all of which I feel, is what Scooby Doo stands for. If you never watched Scooby Doo when you were young, you would probably not enjoy this flick. But if you did, this movie is pretty damn fun.