Language Nursery is my son's (& my) least favorite of the Baby Einstein videos. Although several of the reviewers below are mistaken in saying that there is no way to know what's being said in the various languages (the inside cover of the video lists each segment, and tells what language is being spoken and what is being said in each segment); the main flaw of this video is not connecting the visual images with what is being said.  For example, the video has the numbers 1 through 10 counted off in each of the different languages, but the images being shown have nothing to do with numbers or counting.  Similarly, the alphabet is read in each language, and the poem "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star" is read in several of the languages and simple, appealing video of the letters or object starting with each letter, and images of a twinkling star could easily have been used instead of the random, unrelated footage of, say, Julie Clark's hand dropping objects into a shape sorter.
  I think the idea behind this video is wonderful & I was very excited about getting this tape.  Some of the reviewers below seem to misunderstand the intention of the video, thinking, it seems, either that the video was supposed to teach their baby foreign language or that it would be all in English so their English-speaking(?!) baby could understand it. However, the premise of this video is based in solid psychological research on language development: repeated exposures to the sounds of foreign languages very early in life makes it easier for children to learn those languages *later on.*  This video isn't trying to teach your children Spanish or Hebrew or Russian -- merely to expose them to the sounds of these languages as spoken, importantly, by native speakers of those languages. Unfortunately, this particular video is boring, and gives nothing visually to connect the sounds to (which would help parents learn the foreign vocabularly to continue repeating for their babies).
  A final negative of this product is producer Julie Clark's egocentric choice of herself as the native speaker of English. The sound of her voice is irritating; and she has a fake-sounding delivery that could have been avoided had she hired a professional actor to do the English reading.