I saw this movie in the theater with some girl friends and I was looking forward to seeing this movie because I loved Kristen Bell in Reefer Madness. I also think Christina Aguilera has an incredible voice.

Cons:

Kristen Bell is way under used in this movie. She can sing very well and they should have had her do at least a duet with Aguilera or Cher. I couldn't tell if she sang a song with her own voice or not. I know she was lip syncing to "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend" but I thought there was one other song which she sang but it's not on the soundtrack.

Christina Aguilera isn't a very good actress. Nice try for a first major role but the director should have had her working with an acting coach.

Cher's face is so tight from the botox and plastic surgery, it affects the way she talks.

Story line is what you'd expect. Typical small town girl with big talents wins over everyone and saves the day.

Pros

The singing is fantastic. Christina is so emotional when she sings I was literally getting chills. Unfortunately, her acting isn't as emotional and it seems to stand out even more when you compare Christina the singer vs. Christina the actress.

The music and dance numbers are a lot of fun. I was blown away when they added the tag to "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend". I'm almost afraid of being disappointed if I watch it on my home t.v. It thrilled me to see/hear it on the big screen. I understand why they didn't put it on the soundtrack (they don't want to pay royalties on someone else's song) but I would love to have the audio for this cranked to 11.

Music, Music, Music. I really enjoyed the music. I don't buy soundtracks too often but I had to get it. I'm not even a huge fan of current pop music. I noticed right away that the end credits song (Beautiful People) was sampling Marilyn Manson's Beautiful People. Seriously, not usually my genre of music but I was impressed with Christina's voice post Disney.

All in all, Burlesque is fun and entertaining with a couple of cringe worthy acting from Christina at certain moments. I will never make my husband watch this but I may get a group of girls to come over and watch this.