I wanted to like this movie, I really did.

It's good for the first 30 minutes and then it's all down hill from there.  Seriously, the most entertaining parts of this movie are when they are in the ship and landing it and doing research and gathering the rocks.

And the villains of this movie?  Rocks with legs.  Seriously that's it, rocks with legs.  Plus they're about the size of a potato.  Really?  Something that I could just step on?  Good lord and if that wasn't bad enough, the camera work is just horrible!  I can't even see what's happening!  Stuff like that works for Blair Witch and Paranormal Activity because there is tension that is building and something is actually HAPPENING.  In this move there's nothing going on!

It's just these two guys saying: "Did you hear that?"  "What was that?"  "Is there something outside?"

Plus what's even lamer is that toward the end when the one astronaut is running around looking for the other one he's doing it in the dark with a flash every 10 seconds or so and we briefly see rocks moving.  You mean to tell me that NOBODY at NASA thought to give their astronauts flashlights or lights on the outside of their space suits?

Another big complaint is that at one point the landing craft is rocked by something HUGE and we never see any creatures bigger than the potato sized ones.  So what was knocking the ship around?  Never explained.  Also, NOT ONCE does the movie show that there is less gravity on the moon than on Earth.  If you didn't look outside you'd swear they were just on Earth, they're walking around like normal, nothing is falling down slowly, it's just normal.

And the movie doesn't even TRY to tell the audience why they were up there to begin with.  Here, I can re-write the ending so it makes sense and the writer has an opportunity to give an explanation:

Astronaut: "Okay Houston, look, I know I'm screwed I've come to terms with that.  But just level with me, what were we doing up here?"
Houston: "Well since you're going to die and never speak to another human being again, here's why we sent you guys up there.." *Insert explanation*

There, I wrote that in 30 seconds!  If I can do that, I would suspect that a Hollywood writer could do it!

Don't waste your time or money.