Prisoner of the Mountains does not focus on the events of the Chechen war, but tells the story of two Russians that were captured by Abdul Marat to be exchanged for his son.  The movie chooses a different depiction of the war, as the two prisoners develop friendships with, each other,  their captives, including those within the village that would rather kill the Russians than offer them hospitality, and the other Chechen villagers; while their Russian commanders ignore their plight.

 Sacha, the older, more experienced soldier, despises the younger Vanya at the beginning of the movie.  Believing that they will be executed, he insults the younger soldier's honor and his ability to fight.  By the end of the movie, the two are friends, having been forced to be together since their captivity.

 Throughout the movie, the two soldiers develop friendships with their captives.  Originally captured to be exchanged for a Russian prisoner, they become fast friends with their guard Hasan, as well as Dina, the daughter of Adbdul Marat, becomes infatuated with Vanya.  The villagers who had originally wanted to kill them, were warmed by the courage that the two prisoners had when faced with hand-to-hand combat with the Chechen rebels, as well as enjoyed the technical skills that fixed the seemingly random requirements of the village.  Meanwhile, the Russian military command was depicted as unwilling to assist the two captives.

 As Abdul Marat attempts to barter for the release of his son, the Russian response was half-hearted.  At one point, the two forces approached each other to trade the prisoners, yet the Russians were not observed to be carrying their prisoner, thus the Chechens did not come forward to carry out the deal.  Aiming for an emotional impact, Marat asks the prisoners to write their mothers, and Vanya's mother arrives to ask the Russian commanders to negotiate again, and they inform her that they have written off her son and see any future negotiations as fruitless.

 Although Abdul Marat's son is killed while attempting to escape, Vanya successfully escapes and is reunited with his mother.