ROCKY III, released in 1982, is a much different film than the previous two ROCKYs.  While the first Rocky featured Balboa as a down-on-his-luck thug with a heart of gold, and ROCKY II trying to another title shot, here Rock has got it all.  And it's not primarilty bound to Philly.

While the first two Rocky films are about pre-fame Rocky and more localised to Philedelphia, ROCKY III is very much a pop-culture film.  Anyone who grew up in the 1980s will undoubtly become rather nostalgic in viewing this film, especially the opening montage of all of Rocky's product endorsements.  We have Stallone with the Muppets, all three of that era's Presidents (Ford, Carter, Reagan), and a whole litany of commercials.  That's a very memorable matchup against Hulk Hogan as "Thunderlips".  Anyone who followed him in the 1980s is bound to smile at this appearance.  He is absolutely enormous compared to Stallone, and it just shows how impressive Terry Bollea truly was back in the early  1980s.

And then there's Mr. T.  His first major film role, Mr. T. truly excels at the part.  Still, however, I can't help but think A-Team and "I Pity the fool" whenever I watch ROCKY III.  Of all the Rocky films, this is the one most tied to the pop-culture of the its time.

For the third installment of the ROCKY series, Stallone shows us Rocky at ultimately what is the height of his success.  He's defended the heavy-weight title for ten matches.  He's made endorsement deals and television appearances, active at charity events, and having quite the high profile career.  Rocky's come a long way from the rough streets of Philadelphia, and he has gotten a very good life now.

That is, until Clubber Lang (performed memorably by Mr. T) appears at a recognition ceremony and calls out Rocky, saying he wants a shot at the belt and Mick tells him to get the hell out of there.  Rocky is shocked at Mick's reaction, and says he wants to fight him.  Mick says don't do it, but Rocky sets up the fight and loses.

Clubber Lang is the newest up and coming fighter, and he's making a lot of headway in the boxing arenas.  He's been tearing men apart, and no one has really been able to stand up for him.  When asked about his predictions for this match with Rocky, he very memorably said "Pain."

Just as before he loses, Mick dies, and so leaves him without a trainer.  Now filled with self-doubts, unsure of his worth as a fighter, he takes up with Apollo Creed, and Apollo begins a rigorous training session with Rocky.  Along the way, Rocky has to come to grip with his doubts, something Adrian helps him with.  Couple of memorable scenes involve Apollo and Rocky jumping up and down in the surf hugging.  They then have a second fight with Clubber Lang, where Rocky exploits Clubber's overzealousness and finds a way to recapture the title.

The Rocky series is one you must watch in chronological order to really follow the characters.  While the first two films Rocky was pursuing the belt and coming to terms with fighting Apollo a second time due to Adrian's health issues, this is the first time we've seen Rocky had to adjust to fame.  And he's not the only one who has to adjust.  Paulie is having a really hard time adjusting to Rocky getting all the attention, and Rocky has to bail Paulie out of jail at the beginning of the film, and ultimately gets employement with Rocky.

The central conflict is all the success has gone to his head.  Mickey says it the best in that Rocky has lost the "hunger", that overall desire to win and be the best.  Mickey didn't won't Clubber Lang to get the title shot because he knew Clubber would win.

Knowing that Mickey began handpicking the fighters Rocky faced radically altered Rocky's life, sending him into a tailspin of confusion and pain.  He doubts Mickey, since Mickey was booking fighters that weren't at the top of their game.  He doubts himself, he doubts everything.  When Rocky goes to Apollo Creed's training facility (a dingy gym in a rough neighborhood in LA), Apollo comments on the same hunger, because all the no-name fighters in the gym want to make a name for themselves.  Apollo calls this the "eye of the tiger".

And that's really what ROCKY III is about.  It's about Rocky dealing with fame, and still staying hungry, still wanting to press himself onward in his chosen profession.  It's Rocky wanting to stay vital and not stagnate.  It's an important warning for any professional, whether they are sports professionals or otherwise.

In many ways, ROCKY III is a personal favorite for me in the Rocky series.  It's not the best, but it's quite a worthy installment in the franchise, and it makes for an interesting movie to see how the bum who made it big contend with fame and all that cruel mistress entails.  And anyone who grew up in the 1980s will relate to the pop-culture references of the time.