I am going to wait and see the reviews on Season 2 Vol 2 about the deleted music and THEN I will make my decision whether to buy it or not.  If CBS has not got the message by now after all the negative reviews from the previous releases about keeping all the original music in, they never will!  And I will not buy the Fugitive on DVD EVER again and just watch them on my VHS tapes I recorded off the A&E network. Thank goodness I saved my tapes!!!

I read a statement from CBS/Paramount where it will be redone with MUCH? of the music restored.  Not ALL???  For the amount of money they are charging, especially being broken up into volumes, I want ALL of the music in!!!!  They did just fine with Season 1 Volume 1.  Why can't they do the same from here on???  I will sit at sidelines and see what the reviews are from the buyers BEFORE I buy.  If it is not good, I will keep watching the Fugitive on my VHS tapes I recorded off A&E.  At least I can say, THEY did a good job!

Well, I got my replacement discs with the correct music (most not all).  The episode, The Iron Maiden has the synthesizer music on 3/4 of the episode.  I guess CBS tricked me into thinking that if they did the last couple of episodes on this set with the synthesizers and I overlooked watching it, thinking that all the episodes were untouched, then they will think I will give it a good review.  THEY ARE WRONG!!!!  CBS,Paramount ruined the theme to the show by adding this crappy music!  There still are negative reviews about Season Two Volume Two and I CERTAINLY will hold off on buying anymore future episodes until the all the music is put back in!!! I AM SERIOUS!!! If this replacement disc program didn't do anything to wake up CBS/Paramount, then they never will.  It will be business as usual at CBS/Paramount.  All they are doing is hurting themselves because of the much fewer discs that they anticipate on selling to the public! (Including me).  Money talks and BS walks!!!!!!

CBS,Paramount, LEAVE THE ORIGINAL MUSIC ALONE!!!!!!!!!!!!100%