Like Crumb and Ghost World (both great films in their own right), American Splendor focuses on a subculture that is seldom glimpsed by the mainstream --that of underground comic book writers. American Splendor is the name of a comic book created by Harvey Pekar, played in this film by Paul Giamatti, who expertly captures the personality and nuances of Pekar. We know this because this film is part documentary, with the real Pekar (and other characters dramatized in the film) giving commentary throughout. This technique of mixing the real with the fictionalized works well for this movie, which is about a person who is almost obsessively introspective and constantly wondering about his  identity. Although he is a counterculture hero of sorts, Pekar lived most of his life in an extremely low key manner --as a file clerk for a VA hospital. Most of his comic books were derived from the people and events he experienced at work and around the streets of Cleveland. At the start of the film, Pekar's wife has left him, complaining that she cannot stand the "plebeian life" anymore. Although Pekar himself is hardly content with his own life, he also seems to require it. At one point he muses that he'd be lost without his work routine. Later, one of his female fans named Joyce (Hope Davis) writes to Pekar and they get married almost immediately, "skipping the whole courtship thing," as Joyce puts it. Joyce is a fellow misfit, and they seem like a perfect match. The strength of this film is in the way it captures the whole sense of life (to borrow a phrase from Ayn Rand) of Harvey Pekar. Before seeing this, I had never heard of him or his comic book, but I am always intrigued by people who live on the fringes and create something original from their unconventional vantage points. Pekar reveals himself as a perverse sort of character who seems to need a degree of conflict, even misery, in his life. As he gains in popularity, it seems likely that he could, like his friend and collaborator Robert Crumb, have launched a career out of his art and quit his day job, but he doesn't do this until the very end when he formally retires. He appeared several times on David Letterman's Late Night show, but finally resented the way the host used him for laughs. I enjoyed the scene of his final appearance on the show, when he publicly insults the smug Letterman; I wish more people would do things like that. Directors Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini, helped by the cast and the actual characters of course, have created a masterpiece in this multifaceted portrayal of a unique modern artist.