Negima is another harem comedy by the creator of Love Hina and this time dressed up in Harry Potter clothes.  Negi is the star of the show, a ten year old boy who is a genius and magic user (though restricted to not use his magic, something that fizzles alot of the fun out of the first dozen or so episodes).  He's also now a teacher at a school and his class is a 30 odd bunch of teenage girls, all who find him irresistable (stars in their eyes romantic notions all around, I'm afraid).

Watching Negima felt like a huge chore.
This is a cleaned up version, but the animation is still substandard, the music forgettable, and the whole bit of having a 10 year old boy for a teacher, trying to teach a class full of teenage girls (who dream of him as some kind of romantic paragon) is downright creepy.  The many excuses to kiss him are ridiculous and get more grating as the show wears on and girls are chasing after him relentlessly.  It's uncomfortable, not particularly comedic and completely forgettable.  That is, until the studio decided to do *something* about trying to wrap up the plotline.

Negima was still being churned out in manga form and thus did not have a complete story when this series was being made (something that happens quite frequently).  So instead of just leaving it hanging, they decided to put together a final arc that would bring some sort of closure to the series.  This made the fanboys (and fangirls) FURIOUS but I applaud their decision.  The last arc gives weight and substance to a series that was otherwise harem fluff in Harry Potter clothes.  The final arc brings everyone together and fleshes out the relationships a little more solidly.  It's good stuff, that keeps you on the edge of your seat with emotions at stake.  Something the series kept free from, til that point.

What else does Negima do right?  It has a HUGE cast of characters (there are over 30 students in Negi's class alone, not to mention other teachers and other characters as well).  Through clever selection and varied plotlines we are introduced to the majority of these students and really get to know them.  This is a feat that seems overwhelming impossible at the beginning but its done with amazing ease and no force feeding of characters and their quirks.  By the end of the series, you feel as if they are real fleshed out characters, and not just cardboard cutouts.  The personalities are so diverse too and you even get to meet a robot, a vampire and a ghost (among others, ninja twins perhaps?) The colors of many of the girls' hair was changed from a sea of plain browns to a crayon box of crazy dyes.  This does help to identify them and was a nice idea (even if the fans, again, didn't like it...I can imagine the confusion that would have lead if they had stuck to the manga on this).

The English dub is also quite nice, with Greg Ayres even squeaking out a bit of an English accent for Negi himself.  This boxset is rather unappealing to look at (the colours!  agh! my eyes!) but you get all the discs and a little booklet so it's a good choice for the price.

There's even a cheaper version coming too, so you might want to hold out for that one.