I am giving this film three stars because it's a treat to see Goldie Hawn and Susan Sarandon on the screen no matter what they're doing, but three stars is incredibly generous. This story is ostensibly about "living true" in other words not selling out and remaining true to yourself throughout your life. Not a bad moto to live by, but the way it is presented in this movie is pretty absurd. It starts out with Goldie Hawn as Suzette, basically a hard-drinking, sleep-around former groupie who has aged and never grown up.  We find Suzette still tending bar at the Whisky Ago-go in Hollywood where she's been since Jim Morrison of the Doors passed out in the bathroom there in the '60s and she was under him. New management has decided that Suzette is obsolete and fire her, so with no money and no place to go, no family or any real friends she heads out for Arizona to look up her old pal, Vin, from the good ol' drugs, alcohol, and casual sex days, when Frank Zappa had dubbed the two of them the Banger Sisters because of their notoriety as groupie party animals. They haven't been in contact for the past 20 years. Enroute, Suzette meets up with pathetic sad-sack Harry played by Geoffrey Rush who is heading home to Phoenix after a life-time of defeat in following his dreams as a writer. He has some dire plans to carry out and is utterly neurotic. A totally improbable relationship insues. Vin or Vinnie who now goes by her real name of Lavinia has become a totally straight, rich society woman with two spoiled teenaged daughters and a distant lawyer husband with political aspirations.  She lives in total luxury but is living a very flat and uninteresting existance that does not fulfill her in any way, let alone make her happy.
Long story short, Suzette's appearance upsets the apple-carts in both Harry and Lavinia's lives. The daughters are blown away to find out their mom was once "cool" and that she is a real person with real feelings.
Goldie's character is really defined by her outrageous wardrobe and her large fake breasts which are mentioned every few minutes or so and the role doesn't give her much opportunity to act.  We see nothing new from Goldie in this picture and there is no real depth to the character. Susan Sarandon's character has more depth and more for Susan to work with and she does the best that she can with the role but it is a very stereotypical woman that she is depicted as being, whether it's as a society lady or an over-aged groupie. Both Hawn and Sarandon look so good in their tight-fitting bar-fly costumes that it must have been alot of fun to play these characters.  These women are in such terrific shape and are such beauties in real life that it must have been a trip to camp it up like this and be able to pull it off. Unfortunately, their looks are the only hot thing about this movie...period. The moral of the story, "Live True", is put forth in such a cheesy way that even for this fluff of a movie it comes off as a disappointingly contrived message. The characters of the daughters, played adequately by Eva Anurri who seems like she could have done something with a fuller character and Erika Christensen who is lack-luster are so one-dimentional they did not elicite any emotional response from me.  Geoffrey Rush's Harry was probably the best played character in the movie, but once again, even great actors can only do so much with unbelievable characters. I was left with the feeling that the writers' had really confused the idea of being true to oneself with the idea of having no self-control or responsibility. Some of the ridiculous excursions down Memory Lane that Suzette and Vin indulge in are proof positive of this, but I won't spoil the movie by pointing any of them out. I would only recommed this movie to VERY die-hard fans of Hawn, Sarandon, and/or Rush. The story is pure drivel and as someone who was around back in the day when Jim Morrison was doing his thing and the Whisky was rockin' full tilt and nobody knew about AIDS, I can assure you that anyone from that era who is still living like that is NOT "living true" but probably has one foot in the grave and a life-time of memories full of despair and pain. You can only paint a rosey glow of nostalgia around so much and this movie doesn't pull it off.