Here is another "this isn't for everyone" movie. "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" is a stylish, contemporary production set in London's East End, a place known for its "difficulties."  It was successful in the UK, and Americans ought to find the British twist  on "Reservoir Dogs" inspired movies somewhat appealing. The film  boasts imaginative camerawork, unpredictable turns (I rather liked the  ending), and a great soundtrack. Most of the actors are unknowns with  little feature-film experience, but they mostly do a good job; the rock  star Sting plays a minor but acceptably performed role in the picture, as  the father of one of the "heroes." (According to the  "featurette" the movie employs "real villains," a  revelation that doesn't seem very surprising.)
While this film isn't of  the most original caliber, the young, up and coming artists managed to  impart a distinguishable flavor that makes their effort worth viewing. The  movie is comical, although one might say that it's more humorous than  funny. It also contains some graphic violence -- a fact that caught me  off-guard, as I expected the bloodshed to be implied. "Lock, Stock and  Two Smoking Barrels would've been a better picture without the shocking  effect of unnecessarily HEAVY on-screen bleeding. (I'm not averse to strong  violence in movies, but it seemed so incongruous to the spirit of THIS work  that it nearly put me off.) Nevertheless, if you like films such as  "Trainspotting" or "Reservoir Dogs," you should enjoy  this one...but that's not a promise.
The DVD picture quality is mediocre,  but the sound is slightly better in comparison. The special features  include a "featurette" that amounts to some brief interviews with  the actors describing their characters in the production; an inclusion  that's practically useless once you've seen the movie. There's an uncommon  feature, "Cockney Rhyming Slang," that I found amusing and  useful, it's a glossary of street lingo used in London. In all, I would say  that this disc offers reasonable value for the money.