Phonebooth has ALMOST all of the necessary parts to add up to
a great, tense, tight thriller.  But it's the little things that
really let this film rate no better than average...
  Colin Farrell pulls his weight in the lead role, showing that he's much more than a highly-hyped flash-in-the-pan.  Schumacher gives us
edgy, energetic visuals and staging...and the basic premise is
fascinating.  What if you picked up a ringing phone, and a stranger, a dangerous madman was on the other side?
  Phonebooth relies on the viewer to get wrapped-up in a very dramatic, realistic situation...however, once the police arrive, the script and/or Schumacher start throwing non-sensical behaviour and procedural mistakes into the mix.  What is with the annoying, rage-o-holic Negotiator guy?  What is with letting Stuart's wife mingle around with the police freely after the police Captain sees the red laser-sight of the sniper's rifle on her forehead?  We already have volcanic hookers, a deranged gunman, and a guy who just won't get off the phone.  The police should have been portrayed as the efficient, professional, almost mechanical opposite of this...not the Three Stooges with guns.
There are other confusing lapses as well, but to say more might give important details away.
At the very least I thought there were instances of bad, or obvious acting...and as for Kiefer Sutherland, I love the show 24, and think highly of Kiefer, and feel he was a good casting choice for the role he plays, but much of his dialogue sounds...well...read, rather than said...which of course it was, but which is not supposed to sound as such.  His voice is in the foreground, brighter, clearer, and even more present than Farrell's which makes me think that Schumacher wanted us to view the events from the caller's perspective, but what's onscreen doesn't always jibe with this and thus only adds the the artificiality of some portions.
I hate to sound so negative because is not really all that bad...
It just could have been much better.
It might have been much more interesting to have the Caller not know the person who picks up the phone, and then draw the skeletons out of his closet and manipulate him...because then it could have been any of us...