In the world of screen comedians, Peter Sellers is the undisputed king. In films both classic (Dr. Strangelove, The Pink Panther series) and horrible (Fu Manchu, various others), Sellers excelled at playing multiple characters. The one character he couldn't master, however, was himself.

In "The Life and Death of Peter Sellers", Geoffrey Rush goes above and beyond in his portrayal of the comic legend whose private life was an unadulturated mess. Rush is less a perfect clone of Sellers physically than a gifted interpreter of the man. Whatever quibbles there may be with the story and its problems (and there are a few), Rush's performance is mannered and detailed enough to make such things minsicule. He is born to play this role, and he captures the enigma behind the public face as best as anyone can hope to do.

The story, while accurate in several details, feels a bit disjointed to anyone familiar with Sellers's story. There are some major discrepencies in time and chronology, but as I said before, Rush's performance puts such notions to rest in terms of taking away from the film. As explained in the commentary with the director and Rush, there was so much material that they wanted to get in that certain fudgings had to be allowed for. In that sense, this is not the definitive biography. But chances are no one will ever come close to a "definitive" look (that would take more than the generous two hours the film has to look at what Sellers went through).

The supporting cast is indeed peripheral, as it should be; in a film by Peter Sellers about Peter Sellers starring Peter Sellers (as the plot alleges), such details as to what went on normally between him and those around him are dull compared to the excitement he had in creating his characters. Emily Watson is a stand-out as Sellers's first wife Anne, and Stephen Fry makes the most out of his minor role as a charlatan psychic. It is Stanley Tucci as Kubrick, however, who has the most impact in his brief but memorable section of the film with Sellers while they film the masterpiece "Dr. Strangelove". The only real recurring character besides Anne is Jon Lithgow as Blake Edwards, who proved to be Sellers's foil in real life. Lithgow adds some dimension to what could otherwise be a flashy one-trick part (check out the last scene of the film).

In all, the film is not perfect, nor is the DVD (the inclusion of a detailed documentary on Sellers, rather than the flashy and brief "making of", would have been appreciated, and also something featuring his surviving family would have been nice considering Michael Sellers did such a great job with his memoir of life with his father). But it stands as a great tribute (warts and all) to the most dynamice screen comedian of all time and the demons that hounded him to the grave. Peter Sellers may not have been the sanest person or the most loving in the world, but in his career he managed to bring laughter to millions. That this film captures his life as best it can is a testimony to his continuing importance. This is worth seeing for that alone.