* Spoiler alert *

Here is the whole plot: Earth may or may not be about to be destroyed due to nuclear bomb testing. Oopsie.

The plot is not the centerpiece, of course. They do the necessary techno-mumble-jumbo, enough to make everything seem at least remotely possible, As with all sci-fi, that's just the backdrop.

The "Kobayashi Maru" (and, yes, I am sure I have spelled it wrong) is from Star Trek: a test in which defeat is certain, and what is being tested is character. Character (of the human race) is what this flick is about: how will humanity react to seeing that it's final days are just around the corner (maybe)? Calm and orderly lining up to try to do the best we can to survive as long as possible? Riots? (Etc., etc.)

* BIG time spoiler alert *

In the end, we do not know if the world is going to be destroyed or not -- but we do not need to know. The reaction of the public may seem very realistic to the viewer or might seem way out of typical human reaction -- but that's what this movie is about: posing the question, not the answer. IF we were approaching what might be our final days -- what do we think people will do? (And what would we do?)

Every day might be our last, and every day is a test of character, so the movie could be taken as symbolizing a single day in a person's life -- or we could just accept it as a b-movie without any real ending. So, for what this movie is...

Pros: It raises a significant question about the human race for the viewer to consider, and the scientific mumbo-jumbo is well-enough researched to sound plausible. By not presenting the answers to the question of character (or to whether the world is saved in the end), it avoids being preachy.

Cons: Well, that thing about not telling us how people react (other than a few scenes) and whether or not the world is saved in the end -- that kind of feels like there is not an ending. Kind of realistic, but we're used to seeing a more explicit ending from Hollywood, so it feels like we got ripped off. As in, "What? Wait, did they run over budget just before shooting the end of this movie?!? What happened? No, don't roll credits, did they live? Or did everybody die? Stop rolling credits, finish the movie! Argh." Yeah, that kind of frustration.

Recommended for fans of utopian and dystopian (or annihilist/apocalyptic) fiction and film. The End comes Nigh and governments fall silent as they plan how to save the world from what they just did. Also recommended to those who are opposed to nuclear weapons.