This is the sort of film that is, whichever way you look at it, whatever your interests in the true story this is based on, really very good indeed. It centres around the life of TE Lawrence (a dazzling central performance by Peter O'Toole), a character who led an Arab revolt against the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. His superiors see him as an undisciplined waste of time, disliking his insubordination and lack of willingness to the rules (as one extremely amusing scene at the start when Lawrence is consigned to go to try and assist the uprising against the Turks), and his equals see him as a bit of an eccentric.  When Lawrence goes to try and assist in the Arab revolt, he meets up with headstrong young Arab Sheriff Ali (Omar Sharif, giving off the best performance of the movie), and manages to get both the help of the various tribes and that of the Arab leader, the enigmatic Prince Feisel (Alec Guinness, rather underused but, in one scene where he meets Lawrence, really quite good), in order to take several of the main Turkish cities. Mocked but also feared when he returns by the soldiers, he becomes a changed man, who quite willingly would kill (the scene where he tells Jack Hawkins how he personally enjoyed killing some people is excellent, with O'Toole performing extremely well), whereas at the start his superiors saw him as both a fool and insubordinate.  It is unclear what David Lean's morals are, perhaps that the man who does not simply follow orders and does what he thinks is right is correct, as Lawrence finds himself consistently going against what the officers tell him yet still achieving better than was originally intended.  There is a solid supporting cast, with all performing to the best of their abilities, Anthony Quinn is his best role ever as a headstrong Arab chieftain, and Arthur Kennedy as a media-hungry journalist desperate for a story turning Lawrence into a hero.  This could have been deathly dull. There is nothing pointing to love interest, no huge battles, not even much by way of dialogue, and it does not conclude fully either. Lawrence, a homosexual, is hinted at this with his "poncy" attitude (which cleverly changes very believably by O'Toole), his willingness to accept servants which were in fact rent boys in reality and his frankly ridiculous dress, which could suggest he's just like the Arabs, but in fact is willingly wearing it, and enthusiastically prancing around in it in the scene where the train is attacked. The real character of Lawrence is not really performed, with it just seeming to be a homosexual stereotype slowly turning into an ordinary man, willing to see death when he was once afraid of it. But in Lawrence of Arabia, a story is being told, simply, frankly, and with beautiful desert shots and a truly excellent score.  The image of Ali coming out of nowhere in the "mirage" scene is a truly great scene in cinema history, and ranks along the shower scene in Psycho. It has direction as beautiful as any you would see, and the long, inspiring desert shots would be truly breathtaking in the cinema.  Very little is wrong with this film, which is a classic adventure story riddled with sub-plots (Lawrence's slow acceptance to the Arab ways, the superiors initial dislike for Lawrence eventually becoming a respect), but the plot is not really important to the film. After all, there are hardly plots to what happens in real life.