I had not seen On the Beach in a number of years. With the release of the DVD version of the film, I wanted to see it again before deciding whether to buy it. This is a powerful, affecting film that endures. I watched it  twice in one weekend, and then watched several scenes a third and a fourth  time.
Those who argue that the film is not subtle are correct. There is a  noticeable element of cinematic heavy-handedness, and the final shot  certainly reinforces Kramer's didactic intent. However, whatever its  weaknesses, this is an engaging film.
What affected me most is the  exploration of how people individually would be able to live while being  absolutely certain that the world, and all of its living creatures, is  dying. These characters all face the problem in what seem basically honest  ways, and that is the enduring part of the film. Visually, the images that  resonate are those of absolutely empty cities, making the point that life  could be destroyed without physical destruction. Were humans to disappear,  would we have any legacy? Would our cities and our industries retain any  meaning outside of our consciousness? How long would it be before new life  emerged, or would the earth forevermore be barren? All the images of the  silent deserted cities say is that there would be no more human involvement  in the universe. The only hope in this apocalyptic film lies in the fact  that there is not a definitive answer to the question, "What comes after  us?"
The characters provide interesting studies of how life might go on  until everything stops forever. People for the most part continue on as  they have, do what they do, have ups and downs as we all do. An interesting  twist is the fact that these people were used to the idea of living in a  backwater, but now they are all that is left of everything that we ever  were.
Fred Astaire's performance as the scientist Julian is particularly  strong. Just before the end, he enters the final Grand Prix of Australia in  a Ferrrari that won the race the year before. This becomes a brutal,  vicious race where drivers are dying all over the track. There is an  interesting tension in the fear that some spectators have that Julian will  harm himself, when all people are running a losing race against time. And  this is the message I found implicit in much of the film: nihilism is the  easy answer, acting like nothing matters is the coward's way out. In the  Grand Prix, some of the drivers are overtly suicidal, but in the end it  does matter who wins (and how), as shown by Julian's final  action.
Another powerful scene is the final exchange between Peter  (Anthony Perkins' character) and Mary, his young wife. As the final time  approaches, Mary draws in upon herself, to the point that she is accused of  being irrational (which is a bit of sarcasm on Kramer's part). She wants to  protect her infant daughter, but there is nothing that can save anyone. In  their final scene, Mary draws upon all that is left of her Self to come  back to the world long enough to accept the end of everything with dignity,  and even cheer. There is a strong element of melodrama in this scene, but I  found if honest and touching nonetheless.
In the end, life goes on until  the earth no longer sustains humans. While waiting for the end, people go  out dancing and still have to rush to catch the last train to the suburbs.  I am glad that On the Beach is available on DVD, and this film is a worthy  addition to any serious collection. It is a keeper.