I think that even if I hadn't seen and loved the more recent BBC version, I would have found this one somewhat lacking. Of course, the comparison doesn't help. The Ehle & Firth version has the advantage of being longer, fresher, and better cast. The energy in that one works; in this one it doesn't. It is, however, still preferable to the Keira Knightly version which was too modern, didn't grasp the difference between wit and immaturity and was so wrong on so many levels. I don't mean to say that this is absolutely terrible, it's just off. It seems to be either a problem in character interpretation or directing, maybe both.

Elizabeth Garvie is so calm, vague, and restrained that she appears almost medicated. While she's still intelligent, there is very little evidence of wit or charm. She just drifts from scene to scene as a pale and almost emotionless abstraction of the real Elizabeth while saying all the right things.

Darcy is supposed to be stiff, solemn, and not show emotion and, in that sense, David Rintoul got it right (particularly the 'stiff' part). Unfortunately, the vulnerability and shyness that lie beneath the public mask is never hinted at, there is very little difference between the Mr. Darcy at the beginning and at the end, and you never detect any spark or attraction or sensual tension between the two leads, even in the last scene where they are walking side by side. He resembled a man parodying fashion models in tight clothes walking down the runway.

The main characters are not the only ones that suffer from either misinterpretation or misdirecting. Mr. Bennet is portrayed as more irresponsible and spoiled than in other versions rendering him much less likeable; the warmth between him and Lizzy is not portrayed successfully; and both Kitty and Georgiana appear to be a bit older than in the original. Even Pemberley is a bit of a disappointment.

On the plus side, Mrs. Bennet is as flighty as ever but is portrayed a little more sympathetically. Jane, Lydia, Wickam, and the Bingley clan are very close to the original; Mary is as pedantic as usual but with a sweet smile; the costumes are attractive, and the photography is good when it isn't being even better.