Oh, I am disappointed but otherwise it is excellent.  Let me explain, through the late 70s and 80s I was one of the largest collectors of Jimi's material in the world.  I stayed at Al Hendrix's house in Seattle as well as Noel Redding, Kathy Etchingham and Monica Danneman's house, met Mitch Mitchell and many others, put on the UK's largest Jimi Hendrix Convention in 1984 and had a collection second to only perhaps one or two. My priorities changed in 1985 when I became a Christian.  I had Jimi's complete Woodstock gig on audio tape in superb quality just over 20 years ago.  For 36 years it was rumoured that the entire gig was filmed but I had to make do with my excellent audio recording.  Anyway for me the highlights of the gig were the last 30 minutes from Voodoo Child onwards AND two numbers called 'Gypsy Woman' and 'Call Me Mastermind'.  These two songs were sung by Larry Lee and Jimi took a step back and played some remarkable rhythm guitar. Gypsy Woman is the Curtis Mayfield number and Jimi's rhythm is absolutely exquisite as it is on Call Me Mastermind.  It made such a pleasant musical break from the otherwise high octane funky blues rock lead guitar which Jimi displays practically all the way through with a touch of flamenco at the end.  I really was looking forward to these two numbers so that the world could hear Jimi's awesome rhythm playing and not just his lead work which everybody already knows.
This was the only time Jimi played these two numbers live in concert and the powers that be have omitted them - That's why I am disappointed.  I suppose contractual reasons have come into play since they are not Jimi's songs.
I guess I like complete Jimi Hendrix concerts and there is not one that exists on DVD to this day.  However for those who are not bothered by this it is definitely 5 STAR.  OK, this is Jimi's set list at Woodstock:
1.Message to Love
2.Hear my train a'coming
3.Spanish Castle Magic
4.Red House
5.Call me Mastermind
6.Lover Man
7.Foxy Lady
8.Jam Back at the House
9.Izabella
10.Gypsy Woman
11.Fire
12.Voodoo Child
13.Star Spangled Banner
14.Purple Haze
15.Woodstock Flamenco Improvisation
16.Villanova Junction Blues (Gorgeous beyond belief)
17.Hey Joe

So what we have missing on the DVD are: 'Call me Mastermind' 'Gypsy Woman' the incredible call and response intro to Hear my Train a'comin' and much banter between the songs which does make it a two hour concert.
However although the extended and experimental band are under rehearsed Jimi really does play some extraordinary guitar which even today nobody has matched.  Jimi's fretting technique is astonishing - and notice how he hardly ever looks down at his hands on the neck, a pure natural.  Villanova Junction Blues is one of those pieces why Jimi is cited as the greatest and most creative electric guitarist of all time.  This really is 5 star all the way.