The summer of 2003 will be memorable for a number of reasons, but one event will stand out in my mind.  2004 was the summer in which negotiations between Disney and Hilary Duff broke down.  The bottom line was that Hilary Duff would no longer assume the mantle of Lizzie McGuire.  The working title for this film had been, "Ciao Lizzie!" and we see only too late that indeed this film was our goodbye to Lizzie.  Knowing that this is our last glimpse into the life of this blossoming heroine infuses The Lizzie McGuire Movie with a certain elegiac resonance.  Watching this movie is like a final parting with an intimate childhood friend who moves away before falling out of touch.  
The movie, though, is a fitting climax to an entertaining and warm show.  The movie faithfully concentrates and expands upon the major themes of the television program.  Lizzie, an awkward and klutzy middle school student, must respond to such character-defining challenges as remaining loyalty to friends and family, fulfilling responsibility to others, confronting her fears of not being accepted by her peers, and the general awkwardness of being a teenager.  Part of the charm of the movie is its sensitive portrait of Lizzie herself.  Lizzie must act decisively and conscientiously despite her self-doubt and clouded self-image.  What the film captures ever so subtly is Lizzie's quiet growth and the emergence of her inner strength.  We see her emerge from the battlefield of her adolescent war perhaps not unscathed but all the stronger for having survived.  At times she is lured astray by such her own vanity or the promise of indulging short terms aspirations such as being popular.  She does not always honor the right people and she blindly misplaces her affections at a whim.  But even so, in the end she has the courage to act upon her convictions, and despite the disingenuous designs manipulating her, her heart remains pure. 
As others have noted, many of the show's central characters are conspicuously missing.  Most noticeable is the absence of Lalaine who played Lizzie's best friend, Miranda Sanchez.  The dynamic feels stilted and incomplete without Miranda to round out Gordo's neuroticisms and Lizzie's naïvet&eacute;.  Also M.I.A. are such recurring characters as Larry Tudgeman, Veruca, Kate's cousin Amy (played by Hilary's big sister Haylie), Lanny, Claire, Parker, and David.  Even if they were minor characters, it still would have been a nice touch to see some of them touring Rome with Lizzie.
The DVD features are on the whole attention-grabbing.  Most interesting are the "Why Not?" music video, the behind the scenes documentary, and the deleted scenes with an alternate ending.  I love the video for "Why Not?" because the lyrics personify perfectly the sheer optimism and cheerfulness that were the cardinal traits of Lizzie herself.  The documentary isn't terribly insightful, but helps to flesh out what it took to make the film and how the cast and crew approached the project.  The deleted scenes are a treat, but won't really change how you interpret the movie.  The alternate ending isn't revolutionary (i.e. Lizzie's crudely drawn alter ego doesn't come to life and kill everyone) but it is fun to imagine having it in place of the actual ending.  
What is perhaps most rewarding about the film is appreciating how much Lizzie has matured.  In the early episodes, she still looks very much like a little girl.  By the time she performs for a sold-out audience in the Coliseum during the film's climax, one comes to a slow realization that Lizzie is no longer a child but has become a young woman.  Though the curtains are drawn on the window into Lizzie's life and we are forced to part, we are grateful that we were privy to the formative years of this extraordinary and beloved individual, Lizzie McGuire.  Ciao, Lizzie!