He may nominally be a Frenchman, but the character of the "stranger" is actually a perfect likeness of the aging, no-longer-relevant Soviet dissident intellectual. He speaks in statements and accusations, ignoring or interrupting his interlocutor. His voice is always much too loud, straining, half-yelling. Even when he talks about aesthetics or spirituality, his tone always contains unpleasant, screeching notes of hysterical vulgarity. One glaring example occurs when he finds some Russian guy looking at a painting of two of Christ's apostles. The "stranger" asks the guy if he is religious, the guy says no. Immediately, the "stranger" harangues the guy with the line, "How can you understand this painting if you don't know Scripture?" He says this in a loud, stentorian voice, like the guy has some obligation to feel guilty in front of him. Then, tellingly, instead of developing this statement, he just repeats it, even louder, as if it's some kind of brilliant irrefutable argument. The guy stammers a justification -- he likes the way the artist depicted the apostles' worn faces and hands -- and the "stranger" mockingly repeats his words, as if his condescension alone constitutes a meaningful rebuttal.

The narrator's interaction with the "stranger" is similar. The narrator goes into a room and meets a famous person from Russian history, such as Czar Peter I. Usually, the famous person is seen doing something boorish and crude. The "stranger" gleefully seizes upon each occasion and rubs it in the narrator's face -- see, see, your great historical idols are so uncivilized and uncultured, and you admire them, so that means you're uncivilized and uncultured too, ha ha ha. The narrator tries to argue, but his half-hearted and ineffectual objections basically accept the terms of the debate. His responses run along the lines of "Yes, but..." and sometimes he just repeats what the "stranger" says without challenging it. In other words, he sounds like he admits his guilt for some great crime (the crime of being inferior, perhaps?), and is timidly trying to justify himself.

Consider the title of the film. The Hermitage is called the "Russian Ark." That is, the film suggests that the Hermitage somehow embodies the essence of Russian history and culture more than any other building. But this suggestion is very deliberate. It sets up the film in such a way as to allow the "stranger" to make one of his main assertions -- that Russians have no culture of their own, except what they allegedly plagiarized from other, allegedly superior cultures. Had the film taken place in the Tretyakov Gallery of Art, or in the Kremlin, buildings of equal historical stature to the Hermitage, the assertion would look silly, but the film bends over backwards to give it an air of legitimacy.

For the same reason, Peter I, Catherine II and Aleksandr Pushkin are all portrayed unflatteringly. All three were strong, independent figures in different ways, which is already enough to challenge the "stranger's" interpretation of history. So naturally they're his first targets, he has to ridicule them over and over, and woe to anyone who might admire them. But it's the poet Pushkin, not the czars, who gets the most hostile reception. The "stranger's" dismissive judgment of Pushkin is full of the aging intellectual's mean, cliquish snobbery: "Oh, Pushkin, yes, I read him once, he's nothing special. Nothing special at all." No argument, only airs and condescension. But Nicholas II, on the other hand, is a much weaker figure, and he's valuable for his status as victim, so he and his family are the only Russians whom the film depicts in a positive light.

At one point, the "stranger" wanders into a room where a disheveled man is making a coffin and yelling about death. The setting is World War II, during the blockade of Leningrad. But when the "stranger" asks what is going on, the narrator just says, "there was a war with Germany," and the "stranger" (who is supposed to come from the past, before Germany was united) wonders what "Germany" is. In the meantime, the guy throws them out of the room while brandishing a hammer and yelling that everyone is going to die. It's as if there is no Germany, as if the blockade just happened by itself, and the guy is just displaying his inherent Russian savagery or something.

Then the narrator runs across a few people talking in hushed voices and making veiled references to their fear of the (presumably Soviet, but not stated) government. Someone says that the government never understands or cares about art. Yet this very film was supported by the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation, which is stated in the opening credits. Even though there's no real reason why Sokurov should be entitled to such support. Should the French government support a hypothetical film called "French Ark," in which a British lord would walk through the Louvre and repeat over and over that the French have no culture of their own?

Quite aside from the content of the film, the script is appalling. The characters repeat absolutely trivial lines of dialogue multiple times, as if they carry great meaning. A typical exchange, as the narrator and the "stranger" walk down a hall, might go like this: "These are nice pictures." "Yes, nice pictures." "Yes, they are very nice pictures." "Nice pictures." I understand why so many reviewers called the film "boring." It's not the slow pace, it's the bad writing.

Anyway, eventually the narrator comes across a grand state ball. The "stranger" finally relents somewhat, in that he graciously admits that at least Russians know how to party. So, foreign audiences can congratulate themselves on their gracious humanism, after their cultural superiority has been reaffirmed. Sokurov can collect all the awards he can carry, and Russians, well, they probably don't even care about this film. And good for them.