Star Trek VI is the last of the motion picture series featuring the cast of the original Star Trek. In this one, Kirk once again goes head to head with his old enemies, the Klingons in a new and unexpected setting. Before the usual change of fortunes that brings Kirk to the top, he is apprehended and put on trial by the Klingons, during the course of which a very interesting observation is made about Kirk that we will return to shortly. The cast quoting some memorable lines from Shakespeare and more recent poets enhances the storyline. Also entertaining is the usual Star Trek wit and humor. 
As a die-hard fan of the original TV series that watched Star Trek movies 1 thru 6, I felt it proper to include a tribute to the Star Trek movies. The TV series was one of my most favorite shows and I have watched every episode several times. When it was announced that Star Trek motion pictures would be produced, I awaited the release with much anticipation. Now that I have seen every movie as well, I feel that without examining the relationship between the TV series and the movies, I cannot adequately write a tribute.
Star Trek movies marked a notable departure from the series, which from this point on I will refer to as Star Trek. In Star Trek, Kirk and Spock were portrayed as dedicated, disciplined, principled and intelligent officers who were worthy examples to follow. In addition, Spock became an icon by personifying a being, who unhindered by emotion, could surpass humans in physical and mental feats. As a Vulcan, he was incapable of lying. Their mission, also that of the Enterprise, the rest of her crew and the Star Fleet was to "seek out new life and new civilizations" and successfully interact with them. This interaction was not always a success, as in the case of the Romulans and Klingons. However, at the end they came out on top because of their discipline.
During the course of Star Trek movies, Kirk is transformed into "an undisciplined officer who ignores the chain of command whenever it suits him" as described during his Klingon trial mentioned earlier. Some examples include Star Trek II, (failing to raise shields in time resulting in devastating damage to the Enterprise by Khan), Star Trek III (commandeering a Star Fleet vessel and traveling to a planet against orders) and Star Trek VI (hurtling the Enterprise out of the space dock at speeds exceeding those set forth by regulations.)
Spock's transformation is more profound. The Vulcan who "cannot lie" begins lying in Star Trek II, (estimated repair time) which he calls "exaggeration." This trend continues until in Star Trek VI, every misrepresentation of facts is seen not as lie but "omission", "difficulty" and "choice." Following Spock's example, his Vulcan prot&eacute;g&eacute; also lies freely.
Changes in Kirk and Spock affect the crew as well, transforming them from loyal and disciplined shipmates into space pirates, as they abandon the very principles that had made them a great crew.
In the interest of fairness, I give this movie three stars wishing that I could give it more. To the original TV Series, I give five stars, also wishing that I could give it more.
Farewell Star Trek, and thanks for all the memories.