George Cosmatos' "Tombstone" is pure and simply a masterpiece, nothing more, nothing less.

It begins with a brief description of the Cowboys gang that ran things in that part of the frontier.  The narrator (Robert Mitchum) describes them as the earliest example of organized crime in US history.  Not true.  But if you want to learn history by watching movies, be my guest.  The narrative serves its purpose in setting up the viewer for the rest of the film.

Former Dodge City lawman Wyatt Earp (Kurt Russell) arrives in Tombstone, AZ with his brothers, Morgan and Virgil (Bill Paxton and Sam Elliott).  Law enforcement doesn't pay well and a silver boomtown is just the business opportunity they are looking for.  Of course, there are things going on in Tombstone that Virgil Earp will not ignore and you always back brothers hand.  Events lead up to the climatic shoot out at the OK Corral, the most documented gunfight in history.

What is great about this film?  The cast of this film had fun disappearing into their roles.

Kurt Russell gives an excellent performance Wyatt Earp.  His Wyatt is a hard, tough man with a sense of decency.  Stephen Lang (a brilliant character actor on the level of John Turturro) is invisible behind the persona of Ike Clanton.  Powers Boothe is Curly Bill Brocius.  Dana Delany is Josephine Marcus the true love of Wyatt's life.

To add to this colorful cast, we have some interesting cameos.  Charlton Heston plays a rancher sheltering Doc Holiday.  Western movie icon, Harry Caray Jr., (one of the John Ford players) plays the elderly town marshal.  A very fat Billy Bob Thornton is a card dealer who finds out just how hard Wyatt Earp can be.

But I come to the really outstanding performance belongs to Val Kilmer as Doc Holiday.  He steals every scene with a fine, nuanced performance.  He's got the best lines in the script.  Or maybe it seems that way because of the way he says them.  His match is the sociopathic Johnny Ringo (Michael Biehn).  Their final confrontation is the now classic scene "I'm your huckleberry."

You'll want to watch this film more than once.