I'm not sure how many people would agree with me, but after watching this movie again I was struck by something that I'd never noticed before. (Spoiler alert.)

First, I've seen this movie about a dozen times over the years, and like most people, what always stuck with me was the level of psychological damage that these two characters inflict upon each other. Edward Albee seems particularly sharp in showing how self-contempt and contempt for one's partner become symbiotic in "dysfunctional" relationships. George needs Martha's contempt as well as her love, just as she needs his contempt as well as his love. For them, the two emotions are two sides of the same coin--to such an extent that each emotion even seems to be a manifestation of the other. I've never seen a film that captures this psychological chemistry as powerfully as Nichols's adaptation, and the Burton-Taylor performances are truly remarkable. One can only guess how much the actors recognized these emotions in their own lives.

Moreover, when one eventually realizes the sort of "game" that's being played, the bizarre nature of the premise seems to be a pretty striking commentary on how our intimate relationships are based on understandings that are only exposed as "fictions" (or rather, only become "fictions") when consensus no longer exists. However weird the whole setup is with George and Martha's "son," Albee seems to have meant it as only a more extreme, exaggerated illustration of this dynamic. When our relationships begin to erode, the premises or assumptions that they've been based on begin to erode as well. If George and Martha's son can be taken literally as a sort of psychic "buffer" or "crutch" they've created to sustain their tenuous marriage, the son can also be taken as a sort of metaphor for such unspoken premises in any relationship. Their pathology, I think, has a certain level of psychological truth that applies in a less extreme way to "normal" relationships as well.

But what really hit me this time was something else. What I never fully appreciated about this film is that for all its psychological violence, for all the outbursts and cruel mind games that we see on display, the film ends with George and Martha still together--quietly, hesitantly considering whether they can now start their relationship on some new basis without the sustaining fiction of their "son." True, there are no guarantees here, but I think that any view of this film as overly bleak is very misguided. If anything, George and Martha's relationship actually has a much greater chance of surviving than the sort of marriage in which each person has given up on each other for good. I won't go into details, but suffice it to say that I've seen what a truly numbing, deadening effect that failed marriages can have on people. Compared to what I've seen, George and Martha's story resonates with vitality in all its sound and fury, and the final scene brought tears to my eyes not because of what they'd lost--but for what they still have the chance to preserve in some new form. When I saw Nichols's close-up on their held hands in the final shot, I realized that what I was seeing was still very much a love story...free of easy cynicism on the one hand or easy sentimentalism on the other hand, and instead ending with a very fragile, hard-earned sense of hope.