Wow, what can I say?

Camui Gackt secretly wants to star in porno.

Come on, a film about a vampire and his gangster buddies?  The movie was good, for all that it could have been.  Overall, this movie was more like a photoshoot than a story.  All major characters were played by attractive actors, with flashy hairstyles and tight fitting pants.  The cinematography can be artful: Hyde poses metaphorically against bars so that he looks imprisoned, etc.  The abundancy of erotic imagery invites some questioning about what's necessary and what's filler.  Numerous shots entertain Gackt's crotch, or a disheveled Hyde.  Which, ya know, I'm not complaining, but it verged on silly.

Despite projecting all the curb appeal of a successful action-drama, Moonchild is too weak in its plotline.  It takes on varies elements of other popular movies of its genre without explaining them - humans dodge bullets a la The Matrix but without sufficient background on how they got this skill (or power, really).  Most distressingly, there's several significant leaps in the timeline that are never filled in.  Significant life choices and character developments often occur offscreen.

Often times, I felt cut off from the characters.  Several philosophical questions surface which the audience member cannot fully identify with.  How many humans, for example, can sympathize with a vampire's agony of never aging?

On the flip side, we might envy that immortal youth.  Gackt appears particularly vulnerable in one scene when Hyde (the vamp) agonizes over his age.  I suppose the implication was that Gackt thought that Hyde would abandon him, because of the age differences, but I also wondered if they were hinting at another fear.  For these beautiful actors, looks are everything.  The fear of losing beauty to age, and thus eradicating the core of one's fanbase, status, and income, seems to me a real terror.

Instead of exploring the human angle of the question, the movie drones about the vampire's plight.  We are left to assume that being a bloodsucker is somehow worse than being a gangster, even though the gangsters in the movie kill with reckless abandon, and usually for money.  A vampire, on the other hand, especially one with a conscience, could choose his/her victims.  He/she could be an angel of mercy, relieving ill people near death, or an agent of justice, going after murderers.

Hyde was a surprisingly good actor; I believed in his pathos - although, I wasn't totally sure what was bothering him all of the time, but I believed he was suffering.  Gackt, not so much.  He struts across the screen with a believable arrogance, style, and rampant sexuality, but he failed on some key dramatic moments.  For instance: he never becomes upset, he just is upset.  He screams and screams and generally irritates.  Amazingly, when he plays for quieter roles, such as a shy lover, he comes out all right.

The actress playing Yi-chen outplayed most other actors, often without the aid of script, or sounds, just using body language and facial expression.  It's a shame that her character's brother, played by Wang Leehorn, does not get the same treatment, especially since his character undergoes some of the most significant (offscreen!) character development.

Not a bad soundtrack, dangit.  Could have been expanded (the main theme is played repetitively and is painfully short), and perhaps a full recording of the song that Gackt and Hyde wrote might have been played at the ending.  The audience does get a sample of their vocal talents, but its brevity agonizes.

What upsets me most is the lack of characterization and general aloofness of the authors.  Assuming that we psychically know all the nuances of the story, they expect us to mourn for characters that we barely know ourselves - and the fact that more people continue dying in every scene hardly helps this.  The movie has many charming, and downright attractive, elements, but it fails overall because the acting and storyline never come together.