Well...where to begin? I purchased Shank after watching the trailer and reading the reviews last week and I had a good feeling about it, plus I wanted to see a "different" kind of gay flick. I must say my feelings are mixed to say the least. You've got Cal, a sexually repressed gay gang member who feeds his impulses through drugs, sex, and violence. Cal breaks away from his gang (Nessa and Jonno) when they attack Olivier, a French foreign exchange student. I feel like at certain points the film was jumping around a bit too much(one minute, Cal's openly making out with Olivier in some area that looks gang related,then half way through the film, he's embarassed to kiss him at the park, regression much? What I liked about the dark and brutal gang world, I also disliked. I felt that the movie's conclusion was not satisfying and I felt the final confrontation was more or less a victory for those who are wicked, with Cal (SPOILER ALERT PLEASE STOP READING) being raped by Jonno, which was so upsetting that I literally was brought to tears. The fact that Jonno appears to get away with this gross violation of human dignity was horrid and (in my opinion sends a horrid message). Now, I wasn't expecting a fairytale or anything of the sort, I knew this movie was going to be disturbing and brutal, but I guess I just wanted some just desserts.Overall, the movie is okay, great actors, interesting and captivating plot( though it might move slow), enough heartbreak to ruin the rest of your day(good or bad? I dunno), well suited music(British rap for the win). I have to put a great deal of emphasis here, the movie does feel real, if you're not feeling shocked, charmed, pissed off or teary eyed, you'd have to not be paying attention.I would have given it four stars but some of the plot points seemed rushed or off the wall at times.Bottom line, Shank is a good film, not the best and you won't feel like a million bucks or inspired after you see it, but you will feel like you've been through something real, and that means much more than an idealistic fairytale ending I suppose, but no matter what, you should give it a chance, you may absolutely love it, cheers.