2 divisions here - Circumstances and Philosophy of the Movie:

Circumstances:
This movie is about a man in hiding from the world while trying to make what he authored true - 20 years of trying in fact. Alot of what he authored was in the form of religious advice as a religious guru who communicates with God. But his way of attempting communication with God was a failure despite what he wrote. He was living a life of lies. He stays in hiding till his back goes out. Out of necessity, he meets a female chiropractor who helps him, and after a few challenging events, he wants to come out of his hiding and be with her. Despite his oddities and lies, they end up together (he being a transformed person). The End.

Philosophy:
Behind the circumstances, one see's a very biased outlook. It basically comes down to the main character's hatred of God for God to punish sin. He thinks that we should not be forced to believe in God. His anger is evident during the movie (especially in talking with the bookstore owner). In addition, he expects to hear something or see something visible to be in communication with God but that does not happen to him either. So, he does not know what to believe except what he thinks and that includes rejecting the Bible, God's Word. Remember, believing something is a possibility is not believing it at all. Its black and white. You either believe or you do not. The bias and hatred for God is why I rate it very low. If one cares about what God says in His Word and not what the main character says, you will not like this movie. It's either the main character's rejection of the Bible OR believing Your Creator of this world, choose wisely (there's a bias either way). Romans 3 says Let God be true and every man a liar. Jesus says, there is no other salvation except through Him (he alone can save from your sins - not yourself). Look to Jesus as Your Savior and Lord and be saved from your sins to serve Him (you will either serve yourself or Him - you cannot serve two masters).