First of all, I watch movies for entertainment and not to offer my personal approval for handing out Oscars OK? If 90 minutes are that critically important to you, then you should only watch what the professional critics tell you to watch...oh and in that case, get used to reading subtitles! Some of the best movies that I have seen more than once were not critically acclaimed (sometimes quite the contrary). Some of the worst movies that I have seen were critically acclaimed.

Being well into the second decade of my marriage, I could relate to a few aspects of the movie, even though not exactly by the script. What I got in this movie was a chance to confront and examine my own experiences by comparison with an extreme, and that if nothing else was a bit captivating. If you are married, were married, or ever plan to get married, watch the movie; at the very least, you'll get another reference point from some aspect of the movie which you'll probably relate to at some point to some degree. ***I say this only to the men reading this review.*** At the heart of this movie there are some perfectly natural male issues brought to light that not all women may digest in a healthy manner :-)

If you really feel the need to draw out a moral to the story scene by scene, then you could do that as well. Mid-life crises are real. Sexual temptation is real. Free-spirited people exist. "There are different strokes for different folks" is true (cheating isn't for everyone). "Why can't or shouldn't I do what I really want to do?" "What DO I really want" is another one. "You can't have your cake and eat it too." (Yada, Yada, Yada) Depending on your experiences, you might have a "I remember a similar encounter that could have gone down this road" moment.

My only point is that I enjoyed the movie and would/will probably watch it again. Be careful what you read in these reviews if you are trying to decide on whether to view this movie. I actually go in reverse order and read movie reviews after I've watched the movie. Reading the reviews I've seen here, I get the feeling that reviewers' life experiences (subject related or otherwise) outside of the 90 minutes spent watching this film are shining through their words (see "healthy manner" above).