Wow, what a refreshing film in what has become a stale genre as of late. Along with "Cabin in the Woods" this is one of the few new horror films which I thought was genuine and smart. I hesitate to call it a spoof because while it does mention other horror franchise and take light humorous jabs at cliches of the genre, it really attempts to stand on its own, with it's own unique story.

The film is set in a small town where a young man named Leslie (last name in question.) who has chosen the career of a haunting serial killer, to in his mind, balance out the eternal good of the war, which needs an inherent evil to fight. You would think a man of this mind frame would come across as disturbed, unsettled and probably unpleasant to converse with, yet this is quite the opposite. Leslie is a kind, polite and hilarious individual and while he might have trouble feeding his pet turtles he seems like a genuinely nice guy......Well as genuine and nice a person can be while stalking in the shadows and planning to kill over half a dozen teenagers. Along on his life journey of disemboweling sexually active teens smoking weed, he picks up three grad students who make a documentary about him and through the first hour of this film we see the other side of the horror genre. Instead of seeing the killer among the fog and darkness of the wilderness, hunting his prey, this film shows him in the days, hours and minutes leading up to that point. Giddily plotting his "art" and setting up some demented "Home Alone" type traps. This completely flips the script on the horror genre and it is executed well, it avoids cliches by facing them head on with a smirk.

Yet Leslie isn't fully happy until he finds his "Ahab" an eternal figure of good (also his therapist) whom he can duke it out in the finale of Good Vs. Evil. This character is ironically played by Fred Krueger himself, Robert Englund in a character that should remind any horror fan of Dr. Loomis from the Halloween franchise. So along with the help of a dear friend (a retired serial killer who seems to miss picking up the ole' axe and going on a spree or two) Leslie seems well off on his mission and extremely joyous about it. However, the film flips its switch as soon as it lets the light in and plays out well in the third act. In conclusion this is a well acted film for fans of the genre and general movie goers alike. As a horror film released post early 90's this is easily a five star within the genre, buy without hesitation.