This movie had a lot going for it and a lot to offer but it felt a bit rushed in some scenes.

Plot: One year after that terrible night, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is in a hospital on a disability and can't talk or even more importantly scream! But after they took down Michael and shot him into a well he found help from a homeless man and he has been in another comma for that year! But now he has awakened and he wants revenge!

Review: With it's $3 million budget Dominique Othenin-Girad (Director) Michael Jacobs (Writer) and Shem Bitterman (Writer) create a  hostel yet more sympathetic character of Michael that lasts for a very little bit before he turns back to his Bad-Ass self from part four!  I must say that I loved a lot about this movie... this one had a more rock `n roll soundtrack, more adult themes and a high body count with gorier deaths than part four will ever have! But on the other hand it created an atmosphere that was a bit on the cheesy yet perfect side but it lacked some of the scenes to back it up. The car chase was great even though when Michael crashed it was quite obvious that he would come back. And another thing, I have reason to believe that Michael is now an undead killing machine... not mortal man can survive those kinds of shotgun blasts! a really big problem I had with this movie is the fact that Michael shows sympathy towards Jamie in one scene and that is unforgivable because we all know that he is a merciless killing machine!

Acting: I do believe that Danielle Harris improved her acting a Helluvalot since part four but Donald Pleasance was made out to be crazy but he was still a good actor just a bit psycho!

Gore: Pitchfork impalement, a scythe slice, a garden rake stab, some gory dead bodies (including a dog's), and some violent stabbings, slicing and dicing and there is more!

Bottom Line: Even though this is the least successful at the box office pulling in $11 million yet still making it a success off of it's $3 million budget it isn't the worst one of the series and I'm not mentioning any of the names *Cough* Halloween *Cough, Cough* Resurrection *Cough* It could've been a lot better and I am definitely saying this one is worse than part four but it is still an entertaining ride and I do think it is more watchable that part four but just not as good!

Suggested MPAA: Rated: R for strong horror violence, some language, and brief sexuality

Is it worth the Buy on a scale of 1-10: 7
For the Movie itself on a scale of 1-5: 3