I finally caved to the hype and watched "Veronicas" on a slow Sunday night. Wow - I was amazed at how perfectly it failed to live up to every expectation. Smart, well-read people told me that this film is smart; it is typical dopey teen stoner talk smart - "Donnie Darko" smart. The dialog is haltingly false. The hero's motives are beyond unbelievable. Even if the movie had been brilliantly edited (it wasn't) the pacing would still suffer from a poorly constructed story.... I'm sorry - constructed is too strong a word...

The story doesn't cohere because the screenwriter didn't know anything about storytelling. The comedy didn't function for me because the story flatlines after the first staged suicide, with an intolerably long wind down to the third act, which is just the last few minutes of the film. Imagine that there was a third Coen brother - one who was kicked in the head by a horse as a child - that is who made this movie.

"Veronicas" is posited as a dark, thoughtful satire, but its cultural background is lost on me these decades later. Apparently "HEY GUISE TEEN SUICIDE!!!!" was hot topic in 1989, and the mere mention made people feel all weighty and thinky.

I suspect that this movie is so hyped because hip, influential people reviewed it favorably. Maybe the movie is worth preserving as a historical curiosity because, even considering advances in technology, this level of irony is probably not possible to achieve today.

On the positive side, I will recommend a few movies that were doubtless influenced by this inexplicably revered standard:

Mean Girls: a much lighter movie written by SNL's Tina Fey. It looks at the same phenomena in high school society. Unlike "Veronicas", it is a has just a tinge of darkness and is written to well adjusted teens. And most unlike "Veronicas" it actually is funny.

World's Greatest Dad: written and directed by "Bobcat" Goldthwait. It manages all the challenges that "Veronicas" took on and succeeds in every category. It is relentlessly dark, viciously satirical, and painfully hilarious.