What a depressing movie.  Depressingly bad, that is.  Can you say "contrived?".  Denzel Washington's character is a bed-ridden siezure-prone parapalegic (can you say "gimmick") who enlists a  super model-beautiful street cop (because she has "a gift") to  aid him in his quest to solve a series of "horrific" (stupid is  more like it)murders.  She does all of the foot work, of course, because  apparantly there is not one single cop, other then the super  model-beautiful street cop, in the entire New York City Police Dept who has  the ability to not contaminate a crime scene.  The scenes where she  single-handily ventures into these potentially dangerous crime scenes while  an entire batallion of New York's finest stand timidly by, had me banging  my head on the wall.  We're supposed to develop much sympathy for Wenzel,  you see, because any one siezure can leave him a "vegatable" (did  his doctor's actually tell him this?) so he's already made plans for his  "final transmission, or termination", or something like that.  Actually, Wenzel's character is so annoying I wanted to punch him out,  bed-ridden parapalegic or not.  Of course, Wenzel's character is brilliant,  able to decipher miniscue clues in a matter of seconds, while his dimwitted  cohorts, including Ed O'Neil, serve little purpose, other then so one could  say, "Hey look, it's Al Bundy in a dramatic role!".  The ending  of this movie is so ridiculous I almost cried.  It would have made more  sense if Queen Latifah was the murderer.  I fast forwarded through the  entire movie to find this guy, but sorry, no dice.  I must have blinked.  Or dozed.  "The Bone Collector" is a blatant rip-off of much,  much, more superior movies such as "Seven", "Silence Of The  Lambs", even an old Vincent Price Movie, "The Abominable Dr.  Phibes".  "The Bone Collecter" has lots of dark, trendy  cinematography, eerie, forboding music, lots of imaginative, gory murders,  and plenty of stilted, stereotypical characters.  Unfortunately, what it  lacks, unlike the above mentioned superior movies, are realistic,  believable characters, mystery, suspense, and imagination.