I listened to the radio broadcast of this performance, the day it was streamed to theaters and recorded for television and DVD release.  I found it satisfactory, but not particularly outstanding Metropolitan fare.
I have only today seen the production, and I found that the music was sacrificed in favor of gimmickry.  I have no great problem with minimalistic stagings, in general.  The Met's "Romeo et Juliet" and "Eugene Onegin," for example, were quite believable.  But, in this case, the constant moving of screen panels back and forth, often without apparent reason, became very confusing as well as distracting.  Black shadows behind the screens, sometimes of characters about to appear, but often with no rhyme or reason, also drew attention from the play's action.  Black clad "stage hands," sometimes waving flying birds, lanterns, or whirling streamers, sometimes moving the screen panels, and sometimes just there, further took attention away from the story.  I will grant, however, that the arrivals of characters from back stage was a good touch.
While Patricia Racette's Butterfly was neither great nor terrible musically, I did feel that dramatically her interpretation missed the boat.  If I had not been familiar with the sense of "Un bel di," I would have presumed from her actions and facial expressions that she had given up hope Pinkerton would ever return.
The biggest disappointment to me came in Act II, with the entrance of the puppet Trouble.  I felt that all of this section was designed, not for the music or the story line, but to display the artistry of the puppeteers.  Much of the movement was unrealistic and jerky, distracting from the reality of Butterfly's dilemma.  The visibility of the puppeteers added to the lack of believability.
I recognize from other reviews that this was an attempt to simulate Japanese theater.  But, if I want Japanese theater, I will look for it in other places than the opera house.
Just a year before this production was recorded, the New York City Opera televised a production with Shu-Ying Li and James Valenti, which was at least the equal musically to this one, and far superior in realism.  Perhaps someone will provide this on DVD.

Addendum December 17, 2011:  I just listened to the Saturday broadcast with Liping Zhang and Robert Dean Smith.  Far superior musically to the Racette/Giordano.