Mind the spoilers.

Every once in a while, you come across a movie that goes beyond just being a movie. It is art, perhaps. It is fictional, yes, but almost always films of this unique caliber are in some way being used as a means to very seriously comment on issues facing their country of origin and/or the world at large. "Bang Bang You're Dead" is just such a film.

"Bang Bang You're Dead", adapted from a play by the same name, is about a high school student, Trevor, who is attempting to reintegrate himself into his high school after a false bomb threat he made a few months back. Needless to say, this is proving difficult. Things do not get any easier when he decides to take the leading part in a play- none other than the film's namesake. This is the first time I've seen the film adaptation of any written work include the written work in the film. As the title of this film probably confuses some, at first at least, about what kind of a movie it is, so does the play's name cause a great deal of misunderstanding. Tremendous pressure is put on the school and the teacher directing the play to stop it. Enough so that he actually gives up trying to hold practices at the school and asks the students playing parts to practice in meetings off campus.

It is at one of those practices that this film shows us what it's all about. Mr. Duncan, asking Trevor about his character, Josh, soon is speaking as if the two are, or rather could be, one and the same. Josh, obviously, in taking a gun to school and killing classmates, feels he has nothing to lose. So why hasn't Trevor done the same? What's stopped him? Mr. Duncan calls it "X". Maybe X is cowardice, maybe it's a sense of honor, maybe it's having someone- something- to live for. "What if I reached into you and took out X?" Mr. Duncan asks. Trevor says, realizing- "I'd be Josh."

This, I feel, is the point of "Bang Bang You're Dead" as much as anything is. Think about all the young men- and they are almost exclusively young men- who have taken up arms and committed such acts as Josh does in the play. Obviously there was nothing left that could stop them from going through with it. They obviously felt they had a better chance at something than by continuing to live as they'd done. But what about the ones who thought about it, maybe even planned and came just as close as those who actually went all the way, but for some reason didn't? They had X. And the others didn't.

Trevor ends up coming pretty close himself. Arrested a second time for another bomb scare, his reputation takes yet another hit and he finds himself with the Trogs, a group of social outcasts who are planning a school shooting. Having been hanging out with them for some time, Trevor films the Trogs as they make their last remarks. The next day, Trevor sees the scouts the Trogs sent in first moving about, and suddenly changes his mind. He informs Mr. Duncan of what's about to happen, and the crucial moment arrives when Duncan must decide himself- does he really believe everything he's been telling Trevor? Does he trust him as much as he's made it seem he does? Duncan apparently decides yes, evacuating the school just in time while Trevor risks his life holding the armed Trogs behind a jammed door as police rush to the school. Unsurprisingly, his reputation changes more than a little. Having both stopped the Trogs and exposed the elitist culture of the school's "cooler", often more athletic students, Trevor goes on to perform the role of Josh in the movie's namesake play.

Any of us that have gone to a high school in America can testify to the truth this movie contains. It has far more than a lot of us would like to admit. When confronted with the reckless, bullying cruelty that many of the school's athletes feel themselves entitled to, more than a few school administrators squirm uncomfortably. But they actually do something, give some chance for Trevor to prove himself rather than continue to make him the victim of a witch-hunt. The message there is very clear to me- there are Trevors out there. 'Bad' kids who are not truly bad. And what they become is largely up to us. Treat somebody like a monster long enough and eventually they just might decide you've got a point. Once that barrier is passed, it's just a short step towards deciding you've really got nothing to lose, and then- bang bang, you're dead. Give them a chance, though, as the school leadership in this film gives Trevor- they just might surprise you with how well they turn themselves around.

I should probably add that this film does not just tell its story from Trevor's perspective. It is primarily his story, yes, but we see at least a glimpse of how pretty much every adult and every teenager associated with Trevor in any way sees things.

That's got a lot to do with it being as good a movie as it is.

"Bang Bang You're Dead" is a unique movie, one I am very glad I saw. It got my attention faster, and kept it better, than many far more expensive and better promoted films. It never even saw the inside of a theater, being released directly to television in 2002 and to DVD in 2004, both times with little fanfare. But believe me when I say that out of the many, many films that have come and gone in the past decade, this is one of the few that you truly owe it to yourself to see.