The baseball scenes in this movie are wonderful, the romance a little less so. The result is a solid time at bat, but not extra bases.

Costner makes you feel all the bursting athleticism, confidence, energy, and thoughts, of a great but aging pitcher in the early innings, and all his aches and pains, doubt and fatigue, as the game wears on. The actual baseball scenes are very realistic, with Costner doing his own pitching.

This film captures some of the precious little moments of baseball, such as the sizzle of a pitched ball, and the relationship between two friends, the pitcher and the catcher. Another strong point is that it captures the glowing voice of broadcaster Vin Scully, who I've listened to since I grew up a Dodger fan in New Jersey and the Dodgers were in Brooklyn. (Like another reviewer I wonder if Scully wrote his own dialogue. It sounded exactly like the way he broadcasts a real game.) The scenes of Yankee fans yelling at the TV as the broken-down pitcher neared the perfect game took me back 40 years. I yelled exactly the same things at our TV set when I watched Don Larsen pitch the last few innings of his perfect game against my Dodgers in 1956.

On the downside, someone made the decision to go over the top in the last scenes of both the baseball game and the romance. The music score, which has been wonderful and hitting all the right emotional notes until then, turns gushing and maudlin.

The film would have been more emotionally resonant and ultimately more satisfying with a quieter ending to both the baseball and the romantic storylines. For example, the deleted scenes, such as the after-the-game congratulations from the opposing players in the clubhouse, have an emotional depth to them that emphasize how much of his emotional life the pitcher is losing, and how empty even a big moment can be if there's no one to share it with.

Kudos to Costner for a terrific performance as the pitcher, John C. Reilly for his strong support as the catcher, Kelly Preston for a fine turn as Costner's on-and-off again love interest, and Jena Malone, who really shines as Preston's daughter.

To the reviewers who think the movie is too slow, you've been watching too many movies and too much TV that ignores character and story-telling and replaces it with a dozen explosions, fights, car chases, crashes, and special effects every minute, all shot by a relentlessly moving camera, and edited at an absurdly over-caffeinated staccato pace.

Slow down! If you take time to notice, there's a lot more going on in this kind of movie than in today's typical action flick.