look, i know a lot of people really like this movie, i honestly, think it's junk.  while the dvd is nicely done and the extras provide the only valuable insight into true history, the actual film drags down the quality to revisionist (outright fiction, more accurately) storytelling at best.  and where the story is concerned, i'm sorry, but it just isn't approaching convincing these days.  while this may have passed as entertainment for the same bicept-and-blood-addicted audience of the 80's that thrilled to the antics of tom cruise in topgun, anyone hopeful of catching a glimpse into one of the most inspiring times in all of human history would be better served spending three hours reading about the nasa space program on wikipedia.  the wonder of uncovering the exploration of space doesn't require the imagination of film makers who seemed to be more inspired here by NASCAR than NASA, it only requires the telling of the true story of these magnificiant times and the willingness to go a little outside of this hollywood refuse.  even the technical consultant on this film addmited he knew nothing about space or nasa let alone the intimate details of the mercury 7 or the events this film pretends to reveal.  please, if you must venture into space via hollywood, watch Apollo 13, or From the Earth to the Moon.  while not completely historically accurate, at least they were technically assisted by people who actually knew something of the subject.  my experience?  i've been interested in space exploration and aviation from my earliest days and have spent a decade and a half working in the field.  believe me, the real story is far more fascinating and rewarding that this trite.  do yourself a favor and be inspired by the real men and women and leave this garbage for the pop culture rabble who know more about snookie than science.

by the way, if i hear one more person flipantly use the phrase "pushing the envelope", i think i'm going to hurl.  if you're going to grab a catchphrase from your technical advisor, at least take the time to ask if you're using it properly.  JEEZ!