Having been a big fan of the original Zatoichi movies and TV series with Shintaro Katsu I wondered why anyone would want to make an "updated" Zatoichi film since they are colossal and not likely to be topped in any manner, shape, or form. And I wondered as well how anyone would do this even if it were possible. There are some things that should be left alone having reached perfection the first time around. Zatoichi is one of these things. No one can or ever will be able to do for the Zatoichi role what Shintaro Katsu has done. He is the heart and soul of The Blind Swordsman and always will be. But me being the fan I am and having seen several good reviews of the Kitano movie, I went to see it today.
It was so god-awful bad that I felt ashamed for Takeshi Kitano and knew that if I were him I would most certainly commit hari-kiri for having made such a horrific mess of a movie that didn't even really try to be bad caricature of the original but was content to be an apathetic caricature. The Zatoichi in this film isn't even really blind! Even the so called comedic relief scenes were unfunny walk throughs which proported to be funny but were so poorly done as to be embarassing. Kitano was an uninspired Zatoichi without personality, kindness, humor, remorse, compassion or any of the things that made us love the original Zatoichi done by Shintaro Katsu. Kitano mumbled through the entire performance and the swordplay scenes were poorly done, too short, poorly filmed and not at all exciting compared to any of the movies done by Katsu. I did hear some people in the audience laugh a bit but I'm sure it was because they just didn't know any better. The other actors turned in similar performances to Kitano's which were unconvincing and lacking in intensity. It was as if Kitano tried to patch together his movie with the elements of the original but without the organic wholeness and inexplicable magic that made the originals so great. The long dancing scene by the cast at the end was catchy but totally out of place. This movie is a blot on the Zatoichi name and it hurts me to think that it might be remembered by association as representitive of Katsu's earlier work by future generations. Save your money and buy the movies made by Shintaro Katsu which are just now starting to come out in numbers as DVDs. Only then will you see what the big deal is about. I am shocked and amazed that anyone would write a good review of this turd of a movie. It must be as I said that they just didn't know any better. BUT I DO!! Hey Takeshi! WHAT WERE YOU THINKING MAN??
  A year has passed since I wrote this review and I just wanted to put another nail in this coffin since I noticed that some people are writing good reviews for this film and even going so far as to "dis" reviewers who didn't like it calling them "wannabe" reviewers. Are we supposed to be reviewing the reviewers here? Aren't we entitled to our own opinions? Isn't that the purpose of a review? What about free speech? Anyway, the point I wanted to make here is that the great Voice of History has spoken. Apparently enough people thought this film was so bad that you can't even purchase it as a stand alone DVD. It had to be double billed with Sonatine. There must be a reason why the people who make the DVDs thought that it wasn't worth trying to sell as a standalone. This happened even as the one, the only, true, great Zatoichi, Shintaro Katsu, has just about all of the original Zatoichi movies now out just recently on DVD for the first time in the U.S.. I rest my case. Long live the only real Zatoichi! He doesn't have to double bill with anyone.