This is the first movie that I've seen in a long time where I was rather clueless towards the movie's emotional intent.  There are parts of this movie that appear to take itself seriously, closely followed by scenes that are so over the top that I couldn't help but laugh.  By the end, I really wasn't sure how to emotionally accept it's outcome since I wasn't perfectly sure how deliberate it's humourous moments were.  For example, the now infamously funny "Ow, my legs!" quote, mixed with the silly bear costume, appears to inadvertantly diffuse a very serious situation.

Addmittedly, the begining of the movie seemed to promise an experience it simply wasn't capable of ultimately delivering.  Personally, I found the begining to be rather interesting because it does take itself seriously at first.  The movie's silliness starts to show itself shortly after Edward arrives at the island, but even then, I started to get a little hopeful that it would deliver a quirky mystery that might not have been too unlike David Lynch's 'Twin Peaks'.  Well, it's safe to say that it was a heavy case of wishful thinking.

The movie presents an island full of obviously insincere and highly questionable characters that they might as well have worn signs around their necks that said "I love engaging in misinformation", that it's rather difficult to understand how Edward doesn't feel more personally threatened.  After a while, it's also a curious thought as to why he keeps seeking answers from people that would rather get punched in the face than deliver sincere responses.  Even his ex-fiance doesn't ever seem on the level, and she's the one that you would think has every reason to be.  If anything, Cage did a great job of playing an incredibly incompetent detective that got his glow in the dark badge in a box of fruit loops.  However, to be fair, the movie never really tries to play him off as a highly decorated cop, or even anything close to it.

If this movie was trying to play serious, it's inadvertant humor is just about unforgiveable.  As odd as this might sound, it actually might make for a better watch as a dark comedy.

I also must add that, in retrospect, the plot was so elaborate that it made me wonder what the island's inhabitants would have done if Edward simply didn't feel like going to the island.  It just seemed like a lot of work, and the crossing of many fingers, for everything to pan out as it did.  Honestly, the movie goes in so many different directions that I had to look up what the relevence of the begining sequence had to do with anything.