Brother Bear, produced by Disney in 2003, is a "coming of age" movie set in the Inuit culture. The main character, Kenai undergoes the ceremony where he is given his spirit totem and must encapsulate the essence of it before he can fully become a man. However, at the death of his eldest brother by a bear, he makes it his mission to exact vengeance and so sets out in his hatred of the very animal of which his spirit totem takes its shape. While on his quest, he is transformed into a bear himself and must travel with a young cub - whom he learns to love as a surrogate brother - to find where the "Light touches the Earth," where he can be transformed back into a human.

Through the story, there is humor, of which I thoroughly enjoyed. The two moose, Rutt and Tuke, banter back and forth through the scenes and one even performs yoga poses as his morning exercise. These two are the main reason I would recommend the movie to my peers. However, it is also a rather sad movie, especially for Disney. I was surprised at the emotions that it evoked from me, and at a few points I nearly cried. This is the only thing I would caution families about. If a family has young children, I would suggest the parents watch the movie beforehand to make sure it is appropriate for their personalities.
The main reason I gave the movie a three star review instead of four, though, is because of the music. It was not bad, I just did not feel that it was up to the standards of other Disney productions. The music was done by Phil Collins, whom I enjoy, but it made me think more of Tarzan than the movie I was watching. I would have liked a little more variety in the musicians involved and the general sound of each song as they seemed to all sound the same.

Overall, I enjoyed the movie, and would watch it again. I really enjoyed the two brother moose, and the other humor that was written in. However, because of the grief it evokes in the audience I would hesitate to recommend it to families with young children. Also, I was disappointed with the music, having higher expectations from past Disney works such as The Lion King, Aladdin, and many of the other classics.