Ok first of all let me tell you that my great grandfather was a commercial fisherman all his life.  From the time I was 4 I was surrounded by the sea, the men who fished it, and the stories they told.  It is something that has stayed with me all my life and is one of the most cherished things I remember from my childhood.  So you can take my word for it when I say to you that commercial fishermen do not talk like the morons in this movie did.  They don't wax rhapsodic about leaving harbor in the morning.  They dont spout idiotic high worded phrases like "this is what I was born to do".  Most of them can't wait to get home to be with their families again after a voyage (in fact my great grandmother often went with my grandfather on fishing expeditions so they wouldnt have to be apart).  And, honestly, most (but obviously not all of them) have the common sense not to sail in to the path of a force 4 hurricane.  The sad part about all of this is that the true story of fishermen is every bit as worthy of being told and is a lot more interesting then a lot of this movie is.  I still remember the stories my grandfather told about his fishing days; like the one about his third boat blowing up due to a propane gas leak in the cook stove while he was aboard in port taking a bath (he ended up standing on the dock in his shorts with the wash rag still in his hand, lucky to be alive), or the time he blunder into a nest of poisonous water moccasin snakes while walking acros salt water marsh with an oar over his shoulder to get to his small rowboat (a harrowing experience to say the least) or his stories about the shark feeding frenzies he saw in the gulf of mexico when the sharks were so crazed that they swallowed anything that hit the water including an old rubber glove that fell overboard.  I also remember the funny stories I heard too, like the time my cousin thought a bear had gotten on the boat one night only to find out it was the first mate grinding his teeth in his sleep, or the many practical jokes skippers and crew played on each other in the few moments of off time they had during their busy day.  I tell you these things to give you some idea of how real fisherman talk and live in the real world.  Its a lot different from what you see in this movie.  My final gripe with this movie is the sterotypical class warfare crap shoved in to this movie.  "Oh if only the evil rich owner had bought a new ice making machine they wouldn't have tried to make it home through the storm."  "Oh if only the evil rich owner hadn't threatened to find a new captain they might never have gone back for one more trip."  "Oh the evil rich owner gets most of the money and takes none of the risk!!!"  God this stuff gets old!!!  My grandpa owned his own boats and took his own risks and lived pretty well because of it.  Thats what this country is all about people.  I knew men who skippered boats for absent owners and it was nothing like the class warfare garbage they tried to make it out to be in this movie.  If those "evil rich guys" didnt own the damn boats then those "poor honest hard working good men" would be flipping burgers so lets cut the guy that pays the bills a little slack, ok Hollywood?
To be fair to the movie tho I have to say the special effects were spectacular!!!!  They made it worth putting up will all the bad acting, cornball sap, and just god awful dialog.  My best friend summarized it best for me after watching this movie.  "Dude the next time you watch this thing skip all the lame acting parts and get to the cool storm scenes!!!"  Thats sound advice if you ask me.