Why is everyone after tom cruise? hahaha.. i mean.. its realy funny.. apart from all the controversies surrounding him.. he always proves to the masses that he is by far one of the best actors hollywood has ever had to offer.. That guy is amazing. i find it shocking that people have turned against him.. totally.. what's wrong? so what if he's pissing you off off-screen.. he still gives you some of the best movies..

Pulling of stunts of this level at 44.. its just remarkable. would definitely make all the other actors of his age green with envy.. who are probably turning to romantic flicks or have just given up the thought of ever working in an action movie again( of this kind.. where the stunts demand so much!!)

firstly.. full credit to j.j. abrams.. i am very impressed.. i have been a big fan of alias and love the level of intensity and the tense moments which the show has to offer.. very similar to 24.. rarely do action tv shows deliver at such a level.. and as a director he has just proved himself that he is really that damn good.

and finally.. getting to the movie.. it blew me away.. literally.. the scene on the bridge.. has any scene in the first two movies made you feel so good about the movie..

i was speculative if that scene would be that good.. but explosions after explosions.. one after the other.. slick camerawork.. cameras zooming in from all angles.. a drone that just wants to destroy everything.. a troop of guys in a helicopter who just want to kill.. hahaha.. what else do you want? its the perfect setup for one of the best action scenes EVER!! its jus unbelievable..

what else can a guy who is expecting so much from a mission impossible movie ask for? i am sure none of the directors have brought such twists and intense moments in both the previous MI movies. and this is just one of the 5 or 6 huge action sequences in the movie..they just keep on coming.. notice the complexity and the stlyishness of each of the sequences..

MI 1 was slick.. agreed.. john woo's direction was different and it worked really well for the sequel.. but this one has pushed the limits. !!

this movie goes down in my list as one of the best action movies ever.. its slick and flawless.. keep an eye out for the dvd as well as all the upcoming movies by j.j. abrams..