Much like fans of Dan Brown's 'Da Vinci Code' novel, I was somewhat sceptical learning my favourite novel was about to be made into a film.  I was also very disheartened to learn that the director was Rob Marshall, definitely not the most ideal director for such a demanding project.  Furthermore, regardless of what critics, reviewers or fellow movie-goers suggest, I found it insanely tasteless for Chinese actors to be cast in the lead roles and for the dialogue to be spoken in American English.  If the casting director couldn't see fault in this and didn't care to invest more time and commitment to casting Japanese actors, clearly they didn't care as much about the story and the Japanese culture depicted in the book.  There is a vast abundance of extremely talented Japanese actors who would have given more authenticity and justice to these roles and also represented their heritage.  It seems obvious that the director and producers were more concerned about capitalizing on a bestseller to make a profit rather than trying to recapture the true cultural and political themes and elements of the story.

This film is not lacking in artistic integrity, the cinematography is beautiful and inspiring and the storyline seems fluent.  The sound and music by John Williams, in my opinion, is the film's strongest feature.  Rich strings soar and transcend into a recurring melancholic melody entitled 'Sayuri's Theme'.  Although it clearly tries to appeal to the audience's emotions it still works well on its own as a sad exotic and thought-provoking piece, not only about Sayuri but the loneliness and longing one generally encounters in life.  I have listened to the soundtrack and found that even detached from the film's characters, it tells a story on its own, and then when I relate it back to the film I was able to gain greater perspective on the film's undercurrents.  I was also surprised by the strength of the impact that comes from a cello solo and the smooth transitions into atmospheric pieces.

Strongpoints aside, unfortunately for those with a deep appreciation of the novel and its unique poetic language, the heart is definitely lacking in this typical commercial Hollywood adaptation.  Ziyi Zhang is an attractive woman but an average actor in Hollywood territory at best and her portrayal as Sayuri fails on many accounts.  I would not say she is a bad actor but I feel she excels more in Chinese roles, as demonstated in her remarkable performance in Wong Kar Wai's '2046'.  Although, in the book, Sayuri seems meek and passive at times, she is really a very strong character who subtly shows her more vulnerable and eccentric side.  In the film, Sayuri is just a pretty thing lost and defeated.  The child actor playing young Sayuri did a better job than Ziyi Zhang as the grown Sayuri.  Hatsumomo was also conniving and manipulative in the novel but her elegant manner is lost in this film as she appears trashy and tactless.  She would've been more threatening with a stronger air of mystery.

The introspective language of the book that provides deeper insight into her character is gone and the story is told through conventional Hollywood methods that discard subtlety and a great deal more symbolism for a seemingly more comprehensive and western aesthetic approach aimed towards an audience with a shorter attention span.

I don't think this was an overly bad film but it does not live up to the caliber of the book.  Even though I don't feel any film could match up to the book's standard, I feel that in the hands of a director with more passion for recreating the Japanese culture and with a Japanese cast, this film could have been marginally more pleasing for the Arthur Golden's fans.  It is not a matter of having the outside knowledge that the cast and field of production was not authentically Japanese and feeling cheated on principle.  I feel that myself and a lot of people can still see the difference.

I realise my review is pretty biased but I feel that when you turn an excellent novel into a film you need to be careful as it is a heavy responsibility - one that I don't think Rob Marshell could ever live up to.  I wish the entire crew had've rethought their choices which ultimately made this film fall short from how much better it could have been.