When I was younger I had Jane Fonda's exercises Tapes.They where Fast and fun.
Now being older, but younger then Jane, It was refreshing to see Jane
is back doing exercise for people getting older.
Hopfully this will be the start of more exercise DVD's for people over 60.

I'm in pretty good shape I think, so I did #1 & #2 back to back, and found them pretty easy,
although I did feel good after. I'm sure my heart rate went up, and I could
feel a burn in my thighs at one point.
 She shows how to stay flexable, how to keep your balance,
how to stand up streight, keep the tummy flat,tighten your abs, legs stronger.

You only need a chair, two light weights,or what is comfortable for you, or a couple of cans of food, and maybe a towel.

Jane is amazing to have such good posture, and a FLAT tummy at her age.
She does look Fabulous.

 I have Osteoporosis now, and I think one of Jane's exercises is
not a good idea for anyone with Osteoporosis!
It was the exercise with weights in your hands to move from side to side sort of.
When you have Osteoporosis you should not twist at the waist.
After doing 1 & 2 back to back, the lower right side of my back still hurts me the next day
from doing that one exercise.
Next time, I won't do that exercise,I'll do something else that Jane shows. You can pick and choose what is suitable for you. If you can't stand, then sit etc.

If your a hard core exerciser this is NOT the DVD for you at all.
My Daughter is at the gym everyday, and she would chuckle that her mother is doing these exercisers. Wait till she is my age. hah..

This is a good DVD for people basicly over 60, or if you have not exercises in a long time due to illness, are not too moble, are over weight. If your in a wheel chair you can do some of the exercises etc.

I would have liked to see a little more moving around.
At first watching this, I was confused by the Clear chair Jane is sitting in. It seemed hard
to know if she was sitting down, and on what, and was happening etc!

I would buy this Dvd again, but like I said, I would have liked a little more moving around, or
maybe some type of dancing, but done slow, so it can be followed.

Just a reminder: Jane Fonda has had two hip replacments and a knee replacment, which could be the reason she is not too steady on her feet, when she is standing on one foot at a time.
She is still amazing to be able to do what she does, and her body is still great for her
age:-)

Up Date..12-14-11..

After doing this DVD for a while, It is now SOOOO Boring, not fun.
Would I buy this again, NO.
It is really for beginers, and for someone who does not exercise much, or move around much, or who is over weight, As I said from my other review above..

I understand Jane's other two new DVD's are faster and more fun..
Hopfully not as boreing as this one has become. I'm going to buy those two new ones, and
give them a try. I also hope the music makes you want to exercise.
I'm 69yrs, slim, and a active women etc.