When Hollywood attempts to re-enact history, they usually fall into one of several traps.  They might try to superimpose a fictional romance over the whole thing... or tell the story through the eyes of an overblown super-hero... and if that item of history happens to be a war, they usually use enough fake blood to sail a ship on.  Usually they just wind up forgetting the historical part, and produce a film with enough violence to appeal to men with short attention spans, and enough romance to appeal to women with short attention spans.  
Thankfully, "Gettysburg" fell into NONE of these traps.  What was created is extremely accurate, with only enough "add-ins" to tell the story of how history's players were likely to have fealt almost 140 years ago.  This IS history!
Tastefully done, the film portrays the emotional and physical struggles of the men who fought the Battle of Gettysburg, and pays great tribute to the 53,000 who lost their lives there.  There is no extreme gore here... as I said, it IS tastfully done.
It is also a film for an intelligent audience.  You MUST pay attention (which is something I had no trouble with).  This movie has NOT been dumbed down for an audience with a short attention span, as so many others have.  You WILL learn some history here, folks.  
I must congradulate whoever was in charge of casting... the actors actually LOOK like the characters they portray!  To illustrate this, they actually compare the actors' photos to old "tin-type" photos of the historical persons they are performing as.  Excellent acting and dialog are present throughout... and none of the actors, no matter HOW famous, dominates the movie.  (It would have been all too easy to allow one big 'star' to turn the entire thing into a glorification of himself!)  Definately classic acting in the 'old school' style.
At over 4 hours long, and considering its accurate content, it is sure to become a classic with Civil War historians, re-enactors, and the general public alike...