Perfectionist Martin Scorsese unleashes another opera of carnage just in time for awards season. Many have commented on how it was too violent, that they didn't know how brutal it would be going in, etc. One of the few things I liked about "Gangs of New York" was how much of the violence was implied. Yes, it could have been a lot bloodier. Reading accounts of some of the horrors that went on in the real New York draft riots of 1863, you understand that Scorsese does an adequate job of giving an impression of what went on, but doesn't go too far.
It's at this ending that I'll begin sizing up the legendary director's work. New York's Lower East Side is a firecracker waiting to be lit, something that the film up to this point has tried to illustrate. Lincoln's Draft Conscription Act, passed by Congress in April 1863, lit the fuse. The city of the nation's largest port and largest immigrant population, already torn apart by racial violence, took out their hatred on draft officials, then police (because of their support of the draft officials), then the city's upper class (for their ability to buy their boys out of the draft for a 'commutation fee') and worst of all, African Americans. This group suffered by far the brunt of the violence. 
Scorsese's aim seems to be to open people's eyes about this period of history. Americans have taken a largely one sided view of the Civil War. Like many of its historians, filmmakers like Scorsese want to provide reminders of how we came to arrive at where we are today. The North was not as unified as many believe. Lincoln may not have been the saint that elementary school history books make him out to be. History's perception of him has rested on his political actions and their outcomes--not his private conversations. It's rested on the ends he reached, not the means. We need to hear the messages of "Gangs of New York" very much right now. It's time to face the facts of history. Scorsese paints a grim, but at its core true, picture of late 19th century America. Trouble is, Scorsese's main narrative here fails to deliver the most important elements of the messages. There are too many. I found "Gangs" to be more educational than entertaining. I was fascinated by the history--not the story or the characters.
Daniel Day-Lewis' William (Bill the Butcher) Cutting is one of the most interesting, colorful characters I've seen in a film recently. Day-Lewis is nearly too good. He about acts his co-stars right out of every scene he's in. Leonardo DiCaprio's body of work has demonstrated he is a talent to be reckoned with (see "Catch Me If You Can" for example), but his Amsterdam Vallon is too thin a character to make much of an impression. This story, of a boy growing up with a vengeful heart, then siding up to his worst enemy just for the opportunity to set up the Butcher's public, humiliating, death at his hands, is just so familiar. It's possible to take an overdone (the you-killed-my-father-so-now-you-must-pay) story and breathe new life into it, but Scorsese doesn't--there are so many other interesting things going on that the main narrative of Amersterdam v. Cutting can't possibly compete, let alone the useless love story between he and Jenny Averdeen. Most of the film is devoted to the story, but not enough, and it's not the part of the film that you care about the most. I hate to make this comparison, but 2001's "Pearl Harbor" had the same problem. I wanted the history, not the drama. The history IS the drama. Other things just get in the way.
What we need, then, is a good documentary on New York before and during the Civil War. Who better to make such a film than Scorsese? You say no one wants to go to theaters for documentaries any more (exception: "Bowling for Columbine"). With Scorsese's name on it, maybe people would go. I will say though, that if I'd seen a documentary on the Five Points gangs and the draft riots, I'd think to myself, this would make a great narrative feature. And that would be fine, because the documentary would have come first. 
So Scorsese's thirst for a great story and his thirst for historical comment compete against each other and the film loses. It's a shame. "Gangs of New York" is a film I really wanted to like but, in the end, could not. Maybe it's a signal that all is as it should be, though. The director's work has never been universally praised or understood by everyone. For the most part the film will be loved by his fans because it fits the Scorsese mold well. He's one of those directors whose work is tagged a masterpiece before anyone lays eyes on it--until proven otherwise. With each passing film, we wonder, will this be the year this guy finally wins an Academy Award. Hey, Alfred Hitchcock never won. Neither director has won an Oscar OR a DGA award. And who cares about awards anyway? Certainly not Scorsese and certainly not his fans.