I got the impression from some of the reviews here that this was an extremely quirky, one-off, come-from-nowhere kind of film, but it turns out to be strikingly traditional. It signals this tradition self-consciously by referring (fleetingly) to Kaj Munk, a Danish playwright/pastor murdered at age 45 by the Nazis.

Munk was the author of "Ordet," ("The Word"), a play reworked into film by the Danish film God Carl Dreyer ("Vampyr," "The Passion of Joan of Arc," "The Day of Wrath"--he is covered in virtually all general film histories, and is a presence still in many a film class) in 1955. It may not be its director's most famous film, but once seen it is unforgettable, though it is also in a sense indigestible as well.

"The Word" tells of an extended family in a windswept rural Denmark, three brothers and a father, who, a bit like Dostoevsky's Karamazovs, represent different attitudes toward religious belief. Together with the new pastor (coolly professional), the family doctor (coldly unbelieving), and the town tailor (heatedly sectarian) this household presents a broad range of responses to the challenge of faith, of which the most radical is that of the brother Johannes. He had been at seminary, and like Don Quixote, was driven insane--as the family tells it--by too much reading, not of chivalric romances this time, but of Kierkegaard's philosophy. Kierkegaard was a fideist, claiming that faith owed nothing to rational judgment, but was simply a leap into the unknown.

In his madness, Johannes thought he was Jesus, and out St. Francissed St. Francis himself, in a sense, by preaching not to birds but to wild grass. The climax of the story comes when a death threatens to dissolve the household, and Johannes, who seems finally to have hit bottom after his religious leap into the absolute void, repeats Jesus' most spectacular miracle, and raises the dead (I'm amazed what a risk Dreyer took in attempting such a scene, but he pulled it off: you can't really watch it with a smirk.) This direct experience of raw divinity, a kind of mini-apocalypse (since the apocalypse is the time when every believer imagines himself fully and demonstrably  justified in his faith vis-a-vis all non- and other-believers) reduces all of the old personal struggles and interpersonal disagreements over faith to utter meaninglessness.

"Adam's Apples" takes much from "Ordet," though it reworks, modernizes, perhaps, the family at its center, which now consists of various criminals and life-losers at a halfway house run by an apparently mad pastor. Once again, this character is a religious Don Quixote; once again a religious crisis and a death threaten to dissolve altogether the fragile unity of the group; and once again a miracle restores it. This film takes less of risk with the miracle, sort of hides it under a certain jokiness, but the effect is, surprisingly, not all that different.

Even some of us unbelievers can't suppress the suspicion that it is the faith of believers, mad though it seem, that somehow holds things together for all of us.