Good rather than great, flawed primarily by triple-reverse "filmwright"/auteur pointiness. Sturges explicated himself this way:
"`Sullivan's Travels' is the result of an urge, an urge to tell some of my fellow filmwrights that they were getting a little too deep-dish and to leave the preaching to the preachers."
Appropriate to name names, or name? Sturges did, in dialogue. Frank Capra. "Sullivan's Travels" followed (&amp; was derived from) "It Happened One Night", "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town", "You Can't Take It with You", "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington". Capra's "Meet John Doe" was 1941, perhaps concurrently produced, though "Sullivan's Travels" was Sturges 1941 #2, extensively rewritten on the fly (for Veronica Lake pregnancy workaround). Neither Capra nor Sturges outlasted the 40s as makers. The last great Capra movie, "State of the Union" (1948, Tracy/Hepburn) is a retreat into the self-protective refusal to risk position Sturges recommends? The last great Sturges film, "Unfaithfully Yours" (1948, a disastrous box-office bomb), is grand glossy entertainment. The post-war American audience was exhausted/indifferent, didn't need or wish to be engaged as EITHER Capra or Sturges hoped. Capra, a Dickensian (art is NOT life) romantic/radical, was doomed by forces beyond his understanding, incurious audience, HUAC-related paranoia. The failure of Sturges seems less inevitable, more self-scripted. What would destroy Sturges was an easy/natural extension of the argument he had elected to present/preach in 1941, irony eating its own tail? 
"Sullivan's Travels" lapses immediately in opening note written to the screen, then in sermon by snooty/smart butler, again as what might have been as one of the grandest movie scenes of the 40s is undercut by cheap/false/brazen ref to Disney plus what amounts to a sitcom laughtrack, finally by Sullivan reiterating the sermon in defense of disconnected ditziness in closing, just in case anyone missed it. Sturges kills his horse right away, in writing, bludgeons the carcass in passing, pounds it liberally in the end. Why? Does Sturges want respect, fear that there ain't room in Hollywood, or Dodge, for both Capra &amp; Sturges?  Had Capra said something needlessly nasty about pure slapstick, empty satire? Does Sturges BELIEVE his own explication/excuse, really? Should the failure of Sturges be understood in exactly the terms proposed in "Sullivan's Travels"?
The greatest Disney animations (Snow White/Fantasia/Pinocchio) were done before 1941. The long/ongoing artistic decline (commercial rise) of Disney into the conglomerate it has become had already begun. Sturges can be forgiven for insufficient prescience, but what goes around comes around? Sturges himself was constitutionally incapable of the level of pandering escapism Disney would gradually perfect (as animation &amp;/OR flawless saccharine yeller dog story). 
A good movie in spite of itself, or in spite of how Sturges sticks to critical outline, or agenda/schtick, regardless of how his art tugs at him (or us). Many grand scenes, especially the McRea/Lake diner meeting &amp; the corrupted-by-fake/exaggerated-laughtrack chaingang visit to a black church at the heart of the matter. Direct references to this movie by Lawrence Kasdan (via the Steve Martin character) in "Grand Canyon" &amp; by the brothers Coen in "O Brother Where Art Thou" may fool some of the people all of the time anyway, but viewing "Sullivan's Travels" can't hurt.