Much Ado About Nothing although worthy of Shakespeare, is one of his lesser pieces in my opinion. The play has amazing language and minor details that are truly a tribute to Shakespeare's unparallel skill however it pales in comparison to some of Shakespeare's other works. The reader may enjoy the magnificent word choice that can only be expected from one of Shakespeare's works but in this play the frivolity of the plot is undeserving of its complex characters.
 Although this is a play about love the audience never really experiences a relationship develop naturally. In fact, the play almost implies that love can only be born of artificial design. The two most pivotal relationships in the play are that of Hero and Claudio and Beatrice and Benedick. The former pair was made by the desires of Claudio and the well-bred obedience of Hero, not by a mutual fascination. Their romantic plot also comes dangerously close to that of Romeo and Juliet, in that both women (Hero and Juliet) fake their own deaths so that they may be with the ones they supposedly love. Also neither woman has spent much time in the company of the objects of their affections. The men, Claudio and Romeo, also share striking similarities. They are both willing to believe the appearance of reality and not delve for the truth. These similarities suggest that if the plot of Hero and Claudio continued, although it ends in comedy in the original play, will eventually end in tragedy. The Romantic Plot of Beatrice and Benedick has more depth then that of Hero and Claudio. Their romantic relationship is completely create by circumstance. As their relationship develops the reader can see a distinct change in Beatrice, her speak changes from prose to verse. However this transformation does not occur in the speech of Benedick. Does this mean that Benedick only thinks himself in love due to the way his peers manipulated his emotions? Or is Shakespeare commenting that the love of a women is completely separate from that of a man?
 The Plot of Much Ado About Nothing like the title suggests is about nothing.  Although the play does process villains and many heroes. In my opinion the villains are diluted for a piece by Shakespeare and the chaos they cause is easily resolved. The heroes also suffer from the length of the play; I discovered that I felt little sympathy for many of them. The grow and development of the characters in my opinion are stunt because of the simplicity of the plot.
 I would give this play four out of five stars. To me it was much easier to understand than many of Shakespeare's other works but it also lacked much of their depth. Although it was a satisfying read and I would not discourage anyone from reading it.

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000714BZ">Much Ado About Nothing</a>