This movie is outstanding for many reasons:

It is a visually beautiful movie with top notch acting performances, appropriate pacing, a seductively dark and original plot with a climax/ending that leaves all of the fantastic olfactory notes of the movie to develop in the viewer at their own pace.

A more detailed report below

1. Outstanding cinematography: There shouldn't be any debate on this; the movie is gorgeous.

2. The acting is superb: Alan Rickman and Dustin Hoffman are, as expected, excellent and Ben Winshaw portrays a very convincing sociopath.  Laura's actress disappoints slightly, but Laura does not contribute much to the actual plot other than her existence so i found the acting to be easily overlooked.

3. Brilliantly Paced: The movie is as methodically paced as its main character, creating an appropriate and comfortable tempo.

4. Dark dark dark dark dark: I understand that the chilling and disturbing is not for some people and that is ok, you most likely won't enjoy this movie then. But if you are like me and are captivated by psychosis and the investigation of evil (i.e. Silence of the Lambs, The Shining) then this movie is certainly for you.

5. Original concept: Nothing more to really comment on that front... watch the movie.

6. The end: (no spoilers) many people claim it to be unsatisfying but , personally, the movie couldn't have ended in a better way. The main character, in his mind, was at the end of his story. So the movie ends. The ending doesn't have to be believable or realistic because the movie is FANTASY. If one complains that this movie is unrealistic and therefore somewhat unenjoyable, then they might as well say the same thing about any superhero movie/story.

6 1/2. AGAIN... the movie is FANTASY. Do not pay any mind to other reviewers criticizing Perfume for being unbelievable and unrealistic because that is simply not how it is presented. Of course no one could have the sense of smell that Grenouille does... accept that aspect as a given of the story's universe if for no other reason than because the level of realism in the movie is largely irrelevant to its plot, characters, and presentation.