I will begin by saying that I think most so called horror today is flat out laughable. They usually (though not always) contain overdone rediculous effects, incredibly stupid characters, no story, a high body count of people we never got to know, etc. This movie is A DOSE OF WHAT REAL HORROR IS. The story starts normal enough. (Thus it is plausible.) Anthony Hopkins attempts with success to make a living through magic and the use of a puppet (FATS). All starts well. But soon afterwards, we see that Hopkins does not want to be subjected to a medical exam. Why?  We see that much of his repressed feelings are voiced through FATS.  Gradually, Hopkins starts to lose control of the repressed feelings that he expresses through his puppet, and the puppet starts 'running the show.' (Pardon the cliche.) Eventually, Hopkins repressed side through his puppet causes him to commit murder. This movie literally slams most 'so called' horror films into the wall.  Horror is not from rediculous monsters killing through an even more absurd series of effects. Horror comes from realizing that something is plausible and COULD HAPPEN! Also, since there is not an excess amount of blood,  the murder scenes LOOK REAL and are all the more plausible! Also, a FEW bodies THAT WE GOT TO KNOW is infinitely more scary than a huge body count of 'barely knews.' Moving right along, character development is superb. We are lead into feelings for Hopkins, but we still understand that some of his actions are reprehensible. Meredith may have a dirty side, but he also has a really good side that really wants to help Hopkins. We may feel sorry for Margaret, but we probably will not forget that adultery is reprehensible. Margaret's husband has a brutal side, but we are allowed some sympathy for him, and his benevolent side is clear when he tries to save someone who 'may still be alive.' On top of that, the scenery is beautiful and dignified. If you like Anthony Hopkins in this, be sure to see him as the eventual King Richard the Lion Hearted in the phenomenal masterpiece "The Lion In the Winter."