Talk about doing a lot with a little .... A mysterious, ancient Chinaman shows up in a small middle American town-about-to-become-a-ghost-town, riding a donkey and somehow carrying along with him a circus of a most unique sort.  There are no clowns or trained jungle animals in this particular circus; rather there are mythological figures and creatures, lying in wait to confront the people of a supposedly "nowhere town" and shake them out of their complacency .... provided they are ready for the experience.
Director George Pal was certainly no Ray Harryhausen, but this early 60s fantasy film was no ordinary action fantasy.  A visit to this circus left a person with something to think about.  And it is the performance of actor Tony Randall's career.  Those of us who knew him as prissy Felix Unger from TV's "The Odd Couple" see as many sides to this underrated actor as he could flush into a character - from an eccentric old Chinese showman with a tendency towards unpredictable changes in dialect to the blatant sexuality of the demigod Pan who nearly seduces the pants off of Barbara Eden.  Add to this brilliant performance a clever script with elements that include a shrewd businessman with a secret desire for his own good, the activist journalist who opposes his plans for the town, a lethal farting blowfish, and generous gems of Eastern philosophy injected into small-town American consciousness, all viewed through the eyes of a fatherless child named Mike ... and of course a few bits of period Hollywood corn, which are overcome by the overall good intent of this production.
There was a rumor going around about a remake of this film, and it could certainly benefit from state of the art special effects to bring the theme home to today's jaded young audiences.  For those who can see past the dated limitations and cliche's of the orginal, however, the digital rerelease of this cinematic fable should prove a treasure, a quirky thought-provoking tale that reminds us that reality as we know it is always worth questioning.  Dr. Lao (pr: Low) is that aspect of life that comes to our rescue when we wonder if our faith in humanity is worth the investment.  There is always another face to what we may have conditioned ourselves to see.
"This circus is like a mirror ..."