This Snow White is Loaded.....

  Now keep in mind that I viewed this DVD on a standard definition tv...I know, I know, what was I thinking.  The improvements in this film were remarkable to say the least.  The kids and I (ages 11 and 4) had watched the original version just prior to viewing the Diamond Edition so that we'd be able to note the differences.  Let me tell ya, no prior viewing was necessary.

  Right away you notice how much clearer the images are.  In the original you had a lot of blah colors and not a lot of line definition.  In the diamond edition the colors are crystal clear (even in standard def) and the images stand out a lot more.  At one point I recall telling the kids to pay close attention to the water....it actually looks like it is moving.  The images stand out in 3D.  Something I never though possible from a film of yesterday.  They really put a lot of time into recreating this masterpiece.  All while not ruining the classic image.  It was very tastefully done.

  Now I did notice things from time to time.  Mainly that the pixels are pretty visible where there is a lot of color concentrated in one place.  A good example is the seven dwarves outfits when they are crossing the bridge coming home from the mine and another incident when Snow White is in the woods with the huntsman.  But those are minor concerns when you see the awesome clearness in the scene where she is running through the woods afraid of all the eyes and creepy creatures.  They made major improvements in that part.

  The one thing great about the Diamond Edition is that not only do you get the regular full length feature film but also a 2 disk blue ray of it and bonus features.  And let me tell you....this thing is loaded to the max with bonuses.  You get a first look of the opening sequence of "The Princess and the Frog", a lot of behind the scenes footage (including a possible sequel that Walt was working on), music video of Tiffany Thornton, audio commentary, and they even throw in some games for the kiddos....or you : )
Games are "What do you see?", "Mirror, Mirror on the Wall",  and "Dopey's Wild Mine Ride".

  Another great feature is the fact that it will remember where you stopped the movie at and make sure you can restart it from there next time you go to view it.  This feature comes in super handy when you have little ones with short attention spans....you know, like a typical four year old.

  In summary this movie is an excellent value for the entire family.  So what if you already own Snow White on VHS, it's time to update your collection.  And this is the perfect way to do so.