SPOILER ALERT

After the successful and critically acclaimed Casino Royale, the film makers of the James Bond series were in a difficult position.  How to make the next OO7 epic better than the last?  Well I can tell you from the opening car chase to the fiery inferno ending, Quantum of Solace is Bond at his best.

Daniel Craig reprises his version of super spy James Bond with even greater depth than he did in "Royale".  He literally makes the audience watch his every move because you never know what he is thinking or doing next.  From flipping cell phones and hotel keys into the corners of scenery, to his panache for acquiring motor vehicles, Craig keeps you guessing.  His Bond continues to evolve with every scene, from the fast cutting conflicts with assassins to his cold, callous way of disposing a corpse.  This Bond is not to be messed with.

Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson, the producers, deserve high praises for taking the series into a more artistic direction.  Where director Martin Campbell painted his canvas in "Casino Royale"; leaving a bare section that is uniquely painted in by Marc Forster, the director of "Quantum".  Both have different styles and pacing, with some nice juxtaposition touches by Forster with scenes at a horse race and an Opera, but like a Monet painting you really cannot see the entire picture unless you step back and take it all in.  After the unveiling, one can see the arc that Bond's character takes in "Royale" and completes at the end of "Quantum".  His relationship with Vesper, the girl in Casino Royale, and why she betrayed him comes full circle and how he turns his chaotic world into a controlled force that makes him the cool agent under fire we all love.

Quantum begins with a beautiful aerial shot of mountains off the coast of Lake Garda in Italy, the scene quickly changes to Bond driving the Aston Martin DBS while being chased and attacked by unknown assassins in Alfa Romero cars.  The editing is so brisk one can be forgiven for wondering if they are watching a Jason Bourne film.  But that is where the similarity ends.  The quick cutting is supposed to be chaotic and dizzy because it represents the current and confused world of James Bond.  The countless kills he has done in the last few months and his mental attitude as to how he fits in this corrupt world.  Who does he trust, who deserves to die?  The body count continues to rise throughout the film until Bond changes from a destructive force into an agent who controls his aggressive behavior.  In fact, he comes very close to shooting the Bond girl and himself when he realizes there is no other option.  Fortunately for him, and the audience, he sees an escape and saves the day.  A very unique scene in the 46 year old series.

Judi Dench gives yet another superb performance as Bond's chief "M" and she alone contributes the key quote that sums up "Quantum", "When you can't tell your friends from your enemies, it's time to go."  That line will echo throughout this film, for many who claim to be on Bond's good side will indeed show their true deceptive colors.

The biggest surprise in this film is Olga Kurylenko, who plays Camille.  A woman novelist Ian Fleming would have written, "A bird with a wing down".  Her back story is tragic and her motivation mirrors Bond's in the revenge department.  Olga, who is originally from the Ukraine, is terrific in this role and it is hard to believe that she is not Hispanic.  She is completely believable and perhaps one of the best Bond girls in recent memory.

Gemma Arterton is the other female interest and is also excellent in her role as Agent `Strawberry' Fields.  She falls for Bond's seductive charm and ends up in an iconic position that is both sexy and eerie.

Jeffrey Wright returns in the role of Felix Leiter, the second actor to play the part in two Bond films and the first time consecutively.  His presence is always welcomed and both he and Craig seem to be enjoying their scenes together.

Giancarlo Giannini also returns as Rene Mathis, the MI-6 agent who was last tassered in "Royale".  He is the father-figure to Bond and the healing link between his violent world and civilization.  A vital character in Fleming's novels Casino Royale and From Russia with Love, and most recently Sebastian Faulks' Devil May Care.  He is the pivotal key to Bond's sanity.

Other members of the cast include Jesper Christensen as the elusive Mr. White.  David Harbour as arrogant CIA agent Gregg Beam, Anatole Taubman as bad hair day Elvis, and Joaquin Cosio as power hungry General Medrano.  Every major character in the film is well developed.  My only complaint is with the henchman `Elvis'.  Somehow he got lost in translation.  I was never too sure what he was doing there and even his demise is over too quickly.  He is certainly an interesting henchman, but so under developed that he simply comes across as table dressing.

Lastly, kudos goes to the villain Dominic Greene, played exceptionally well by Mathieu Amalric.  His first appearance looks benevolent but he is as deadly as they come.  His character is more like Vladek Sheybal's Kronsteen in "From Russia With Love".  A planner and a schemer who allows his men to do the dirty work but is not reserved to fighting dirty himself if necessary.  He is the front man to Quantum's latest conquest, the possession of 60% of Bolivia's water supply and the control of its new President Medrano.  It may not be the hijacking of NATO atomic bombs as seen in Thunderball or the radiating of the US gold supply in Goldfinger, but when water is a scarce commodity in a desert region, owning it can lead to billions of revenue.

"Quantum of Solace" is the shortest of all the Bond films clocking in at nearly 105 minutes.  It may be short in length but it is filled with superb film making that deflates the current competition of super spies with the initials of JB.

Rated PG-13 for violence, language and subtle nudity.