Power in the Hollywood system comes from box office numbers. The more money your work earns for the studio owners, the more creative control you're allowed. Not everyone uses their newfound power wisely, however. "The Matrix Reloaded" demonstrates this.
Some directors know how to leverage creative freedom. Ridley Scott, for example, is a director who always maintains careful control on his creative work from start to finish (though, thankfully, not to the degree of a Kubrick). As a result, the content of his films is always perfectly paced. You may not like the content, but that won't be because it's expressed badly.
Unfortunately it looks like the Wachowski brothers are an example of the other type of director, for whom newly-gained power becomes a club with which to beat down any attempt to restrain the story they want to tell.
The story of the Matrix is epic; like the Machine, it wants to transcend all limits to its growth. In making "The Matrix" this impulse was restrained, both financially and artistically, and the cinematic result was a perfect blend of story and presentation. In "The Matrix Reloaded" these constraints were lifted. Without that discipline, the audiovisual side began growing like celluloid kudzu, and wound up choking off the story.
To put it simply, every scene in this movie is about 20 percent too long. From Neo's mid-movie fight with Smith 2.0, to the conversation with the Oracle, to the top-of-the-truck fight, to the Neo/Trinity love scene, to the staircase fight, to the Big Dance Number -- all of these scenes, and many others, were just too long. All these scenes should have been edited down to the exact amount necessary to tell the story, but they weren't. Halfway through them, we got the point, but the directors wouldn't let us move on. They lingered... and we got bored.
The result was a reasonably good movie that was less fun to watch than it should have been because it dragged. I can't help but assume that, now that the directors have the power to push exactly the vision they want, they're unwilling to accept any limits to translating what they see in their imaginations onto the big screen. Thus, scenes that any good film editor would have left on the cutting-room floor -- not because they were "bad," but because they didn't add anything useful to the scene -- were retained because the directors couldn't bear to cut them and no one from the studio said "no."
This problem of "falling in love with your work" (and thus becoming unwilling to revise or cut scenes that don't help tell the story) has always been a struggle for writers. In "The Matrix Reloaded" the Wachowski brothers appear to have fought that same battle and lost.
Good story, great audio/visuals, bad pacing: 3 stars.