"Revenge of The Electric Car" is the follow-up to "Who Killed The Electric Car", a scruffy 2006 documentary film which focused on the life and mysterious death of the GM EV1, General Motor's aborted attempt at creating a consumer-friendly electric-based automobile. "Revenge of The Electric Car" leaves behind EV1's story to focus on more recent attempts at producing electric automobile vehicles. The film's splits its time between four entrepreneurial protagonists: the head of an automobile startup company (Elon Musk of Tesla Motors), an independent EV converter (Greg Abbott) and two powerful executives of the automobile industry (General Motors Vice-Chairman Bob Lutz and Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn).

Although crafted by the same filmmaker, "Revenge of The Electric Car" has a different feel from "Who Killed The Electric Car". Playfully structured as a murder whodunit, the first film was a fine example of journalistic activism, a pro-green expose into the political machinations of the automobile industry, oil companies and government bureaucracies. "Revenge" is a more straightforward documentary that follows the progress of a budding automobile industry movement via four individuals, over a period of four years (2007-2010). This means that "Revenge" plays more objectively towards its topic than than "Who Killed", which sounds better in theory than it is in execution.

By taking a more impartial stance, director Chris Paine has been granted (some) inside access with GM and Nissan, something which was noticeably absent in "Who Killed". Of course the cooperation is self-serving on the part of the automobile companies, who have clearly learned some lessons from the bad press which occurred as a result of the first film. While this gives "Revenge Of The Electric Car" a more even-handed feel than "Who Killed The Electric Car", it does not necessarily make for more compelling viewing. In fact, I found myself pining for the grassroots activism which was notably present throughout "Who Killed the Electric Car"; that film had a sense of passion, urgency and purpose which feels mysteriously absent in "Revenge".

As a stand-alone film, "Revenge" feels thin and unfocused at times, causing the film's running length to feel at once too long and too short. Frustratingly, the film doesn't spend enough time with any of its main characters, denying viewers an emotional connection to the film; on the other hand, "Revenge" occasionally delves into personal aspects of the film's characters that add nothing to the film's core premise. "Who Killed The Electric Car" had a vividly-drawn main protagonist in the EV1; I cared about its fate by the end of the film. The most memorable character in "Revenge Of The Electric Car" is easily GM's Vice Chairman Bob Lutz. With his gruff, opinionated old-school patriarch-isms, Mr. Lutz is an amusingly larger-than-life automobile executive who plays like a hold-over from the "Mad Men" era of executive marketing; even when attempting to appear humbled, you know this guy always thinks he knows better than you. Mr. Lutz alone would make for great subject matter in a documentary; unfortunately, it is solely due to Mr. Lutz's anti-hero, ego-driven charisma that he stands out at all in the film. The characters which populate "Revenge" are sketchily drawn at best; with the exception of Mr. Lutz, all are highly forgettable as presented in the film.

It must be said that you don't need to see the first film in order to watch "Revenge". However, as a stand-alone film, "Revenge" is slickly made but otherwise falls a bit flat. On the other hand, when viewed together with "Who Killed The Electric Car", there are definitely some ironic pleasures to be had when watching "Revenge".

Regarding the video and audio, seeing as this is a low-budget documentary, both the 16x9 anamorphic widescreen video and audio play just fine on DVD. Good bonus features include audio commentary by the director Chris Paine, Co-Producer P.G. Morgan and editor Mark Cope; bonus footage, including deleted scenes, follow-up footage and an additional storyline which was smartly dropped; and "Tribeca Film Fest Talk", a roundtable panel discussion moderated by "Californication" star David Duchovny, and featuring Wall Street Journal columnist Dan Neil, Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk, and Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn.

In the end, "Revenge Of The Electric Car" is worth watching, especially if you've seen the first film. Of course, that caveat underscore's my biggest problem with "Revenge": its emotional resonance relies almost exclusively on one's familiarity with "Who Killed The Electric Car". Without the context of that first film, "Revenge Of The Electric Car" lacks any real dramatic payoff for the viewer. While "Who Killed The Electric Car" satisfyingly played as a self-contained film complete with a poignant ending, "Revenge" feels overall unsatisfying, like watching a hastily written second act to a story who's ending has yet to be written. While not without interest, with a thin premise and sketchily-drawn characters, "Revenge Of The electric Car" feels like a missed opportunity, especially when compared to its prequel.