I am adding to my original review of this movie when it was only out on VHS:

This film was shot in Black & White AND it was originally shot in 4:3 aspect ratio.  There is NO widescreen version of this film available, so don't ask for it because it doesn't exist. The cinematography on this film was glorious B&W, and the DP knew how to use the B&W lighting and shadows to brilliantly frame and compose each shot.  Silhouettes, long shadows, rim lighting on faces that enhance they mystery...these are all aspects of a great B&W film.  Just ask Hitchcock.  Only an idiot would want this film to be released in color and, being released in Blu-Ray doesn't automatically mean a film has to be color or 16:9 widescreen.  Turner Broadcast ruined many B&W film classics by colorizing them.  It never paid off, but they needed to accomodate the simpletons who won't watch a B&W movie or TV.  This film is a classic.  Let's keep it that way.

My old VHS review:
This is, simply, a great movie! When a "human" alien visits earth, then takes up residence in a residential Washington D.C home, the issues of the movie becomes politically and socially focused when both the news media and neighbors alike begin describing what they think the alien looks like. Keeping in mind that the "alien" here looks like you and me, this movie beautifully illustrates how people everywhere develop a hysterical suspicion of everyone around them. With communism and racial issues being the important headlines of the day (mid-fifties) the writing in this film makes one think how they, themselves feel about these issues and makes one realize how really incorrect it is to judge someone based on a different belief, race or color. Heavy stuff for a '50's movie but still appropriate today. The "special effect" of this movie is Gort, the giant robot that serves as an unbiased, universally accepted police sentinel. It's great fun to watch him just stand in one spot and do almost nothing for most of the movie. People just panic, and in doing so, prove how stupid humanity really is.  Every writer and director who plans on making a Sci-Fi movie should be forced to watch "The Day the Earth Stood Still." I've said it a million times: You don't need huge effects for a movie to be great!