I really wanted to like this movie...So I watched the film. At first I was interested and then let down. The dialogue seemed to be very forced and unauthentic, there was pointless sex (yes, we know that teens have sex and lots of it, so we don't need countless crotch-shots) and parts of the script were just odd. It has many unrealistic portrayals of teens and I found myself laughing at times and others, just embarrassed for Larry Clark, who really tries to be hip. There is an explicit rape scene, which I must admit, is impressive in its intensity, but I was left confused afterward. Nick Stahl rapes Bijou Phillips and then she runs out of the bedroom and tells Rachel Miner she's been raped and runs outside bumping into Stahl's father. He walks inside and into his bathroom, where he meets Stahl, who is still naked and the two spark up a conversation about a stereo store they had been talking about. Why was this included? I found that it just destroyed the mood set by the previous scene.
There is also a major problem with casting credibility. I had a hard time believing that Stahl, with his relatively small physique, could bully Brad Renfro, who is much larger. On a purely psychological level however, Stahl is masterful in creating a truly creepy character and I don't doubt that a large part of the bullying aspect is the psychological part of it. I think if the two switched roles, we would have a far more believable story. On a closer look, the actors do an admirable job of creating such stupid kids. But I felt bad for the actors, in the hands of another director this could have been made into a masterpiece that doesn't rely on exploiting them. 
Parts of the film seemed to be accepted too easily. Someone mentions killing Stahl and everyone's just like, "yeah, sounds like a plan". I eventually felt sympathy for Stahl's character and could care less about Renfro and his co-horts, which I suspect is exactly the point; that it was Rachel Miner (who herself had many bad acting scenes) who was the vicious one.
If you liked Kids, you should adore this. I would urge people to seek out Clark's other film "Another Day In Paradise" if you haven't. Also, "Bully" is based on a true story from the early nineties, which left me asking, "why are the actors watching Eminem videos in the film, when he was only going through puberty in the early nineties?" I don't know.
After the murder, the film does pick up.  The dialogue gets better, and there is even some good satire about teen/parental relationships.  The last moments of the film are powerful, when we see Clark playng a cameo of the hitman's father.  The last scene, of the kids in a courtroom is also very good, with them still bickering like morons.  And then we see each character and the sentence they receive, where the film abrubtly end with no music for a few seconds, that I thought made quite an impact.
The film is definitely worth watching, and no doubt some will enjoy (although "enjoy" may not be the right word) it immensly, but I couldn't help feeling like a shock-artist had tried to put one over on me.