It is a given in any Chinese martial arts movie that there are hierarchies of fighters. There's always going to be a kick-ass hero and an awesome bad guy ( this is why Tsui Hark's "Seven Swords" failed, despite some spectacular cinematography -- the villain wasn't awesome enough ). The hero and bad guy are supposed to defeat everyone easily except for those that are at his ( or her level ). The bad guy is supposed to be a "great fighter" with an "invincible style" (the more esoteric the better ) and the joy is watching the two duke it out at the end. I spent most of my childhood weekends in Singapore looking forward to  Shaw Brothers and Golden Harvest wuxia movies; that's what I was weaned on, that's what I love. In these movies, there is a fundamental principle:  great fighters do NOT get beaten by "inferior" opponents. If they are beaten, then the opponent has a "great" or "tricky" style of fighting. In fact the time it takes for the "hero" to beat up someone is a measure of the opponent's "worth."
So here's why I find this movie, which is supposed to be a tribute to Ip Man and Wing Chun, to actually be extremely insulting to not only Ip Man and Wing Chun but offensive to all Chinese. Let me explain:
The first half of the movie is pretty good -- there are some great fight scenes: Ip Man butt kicks about a couple of dozen HK thugs impressively, and takes on a host of kung-fu masters,  not only defeating them easily, but more importantly, giving them "face" afterwards ( the Sammo and Donnie table fight is fabulous ). This sets up Ip Man as a decent, and honorable man, and that Wing Chun is a "worthy" martial art.  The scene with Sammo as a family man is also a nice touch.  If the movie had ended there, I would have given it 4 stars, and been quite happy.
The second half of the movie just pretty much destroys the entire premise of the first half.  In it, a caricature of a racist, white boxer, easily beats up Sammo ( who is supposed to be Ip Man's equal ), and takes Ip Man to the limit, before our "hero" finishes him off. Now I'm not saying that kung-fu is superior to Western boxing or any other martial arts in "real-life" -- that is a debate that can go on forever -- but in the world of Wuxia movies, Chinese kung-fu is supposed to be the pinnacle of martial arts! That's why I watch the hero practice endless hours of doing "horse stances" or sweeping floors for years, before being "blessed by the master" to actually become a disciple and learn the "inner door" secrets. If I watch a movie about Wing Chun, I fully expect Wing Chun to be the "superior" style.
The first half of the movie is spent establishing Sammo and Donnie's credentials, by showing off all their impressive kick-ass moves, convincing the general viewer that they aren't to be messed around with. In the second half of the movie, you are introduced to this lame, no-name Western boxer ( firstly, he has no pedigree and he's not someone famous-- like Joe Louis, or Sugar Ray Robinson, and secondly, boxing is hardly a mysterious, esoteric art )-- who would probably be in deep trouble if he wandered in some wrong inner city neighborhood -- go toe to toe with Sammo and Donnie. If I were not a martial arts fan,  from the principle of equivalence,  my conclusion would be: (1) Chinese martial arts is worthless because any decent boxer can take out a pretty good kung-fu master -- No need to search for a "real master" when any boxing gym will do, and (2) the Chinese really are pretty wimpy because one average white boxer is better than 2 dozen HK thugs. The jingoistic message of the movie (Chinese kicking Western butt), which is supposed to appeal to Mainlanders, actually backfires on itself.  Both the director, Wilson Yip, and the writer Edmond Wong, should have their heads examined, because in the rush to cash in on Mainland Chinese sentiment, they've destroyed the basic and fundamental principle inherent in all Chinese martial arts movies, and in the process, actually given credence to the "Weak Man of Asia" myth.