There is a circular neatness about 'The Son's Room' that belies its subject, the effects on a middle-class family of a teenage son's death.  There are no expressionistic flourishes here to 'explain' the slowly disintegrating mindset of the mourners - framing remains methodical and clear; characters, setting and narrative logic continue to be coherent.  At times, it can feel like watching a demonstration of the six steps (or whatever) of grief - shock, anger, denial, resignation etc.  It's all so well-mannered, ordered and predictable that even the one vaguely violent outburst, the father complaining about the chipped dishes, fits in perfectly with the film's running motif of cracks, splits, flaws, and the attempts to glue them back together without anyone noticing them, begun menacingly with the son's theft.
With the exception of some lighening-quick flashbacks and imaginings, the film rarely gets into the minds of the characters - we watch them grieving, we listen to them articulate their grief, but we are kept at a remove, like a psychoanalyst listening to his patients.  This method might sound alienating - although it mercfully avoids the mawkish - but it fits in with the film's theme.  This theme is not bereavement, but the unknowability of others.  Morretti's portrait of his perfect middle-class family might seem unforgivably soft - they are so likable, wealthy, attractive, intelligent, loving, humorous, understanding, talented etc.  But despite many scenes in which they spend time together, there seems to be some indefinable block.  The very whiteness of their perfect home seems sterile, and there is something ominous about the father's dreamlike wandering down its corridors early on.  Like Henry James' cracked 'Golden Bowl', there is an unacknowledged malaise, some deep-rooted, but hidden flaw beneath all this affluence, soemthing that drains the son of his teenage ambition, or makes the father so detached from his job.  He listens to countless stories every day as a psychoanalyst, but he can't get beyond the surface, beyond people as caricatures.  He can't even acknowledge his children's inner lives, and so is surprised at every post-mortem revelation.  It is perhaps no accident that the son dies deep-sea diving - it seems going beneath the surface in such a world is fatal.
I know many people have found 'The Son's Room' incredibly moving, but I remained stubbornly disengaged.  Maybe I resented yet another story about poor little rich (white) girls and guys; maybe I found Nicola Piovani's miramaxy/Oscar-tugging score off-putting.  My favourite recent films about grief - Almodovar's 'All About My Mother' and Ozon's 'Under The Sand' show grief as disruptive, perverse, unpredictable, dissolving: violently world-changing and worldview-shattering, but also, perhaps, a liberating journey.  There is none of this danger, this sense of an entire world collapsing, in 'The Son's Room'.  Immediately after the accident, the father goes to a funfair, perhaps hoping that lunging sensations will shake his numbness.  But the film remains impeccably polite.  The sequence with the son's secret girlfriend, though, is so lovely, rich, unexpected and beautifully acted, perhaps the film might reward another viewing.