I went into this movie not expecting anything deep or meaningful, how could you with that soft-core DVD cover?  What I was hoping for were some cheap thrills in seeing guys naked and maybe some laughs.  The movie is not well written, acted or filmed.  As I said, I wasn't expecting much so all that I could forgiven.  What I can't forgive is the depiction of the main female character, Gwen.  It seems that everyone (the actress, writers, director) was doing their best to make Gwen into the most unlikable, detestable character in the world.  They might have been going for a character that was "quirky" and "honest" and "fun."  Instead we got a girl that came off as nothing less than rude, tacky, horny and dumb.

Of course the worst part was that every other character was so willing to put up with her crap.  I kept wondering, "Why does Caleb want this girl?  Dude, you're not the best actor, but you can do better."  But EVERYONE in this movie seemed to love her.  The biggest offence happened most of the way through the movie, Gwen betrays another character in the most reprehensable way.  And when they find out about it at the end of the movie...it's shrugged off two seconds later as an "Oh well" type moment.  I got up and screamed at my TV then.  These guys all needed to get some balls b/c Gwen obviously had them all in her purse.

In the end, I was just confused about what I supposed to be routing for in this movie.  Was I supposed to route for Caleb to give into his possible gay urges and go all the way with Marc?  Was I supposed to want this ruse to work and for Gwen and Caleb to get together?  Or was I supposed to want Kyle (Jim Veraros in the only decently acted role) to find love somehow?  In the end, the only thing I was hoping for was for Gwen to fall into a ditch and die.

This type of dumb movie isn't really worth this much thought.  But I don't think I have ever been angered so much by one character in a movie. Of course, everyone else in the movie kept talking about how awesome she was so they're idiots,too.  The fact that she's in the sequel just makes me want to steer clear.

Shut up, Gwen.