Up until recently, the only songs I knew from "Evita" were "Don't Cry For Me, Argentina" and "Another Suitcase In Another Hall", which I heard on the Sarah Brightman CD. When "Evita" came to Tampa on Broadway, my 9-year-old sister was asked to play one of the children in the production, and so I had the opportunity to see it. Since this was really the only time I had ever heard music from "Evita", I really enjoyed the woman who played Eva Peron, who had somewhat of a "higher" voice than Patti LuPone. We bought the original broadway cast album at the show and I didn't really enjoy it as much. Patti LuPone is NOT a good singer in my opinion. While Eva's part may have been written for that kind of voice, I don't enjoy it probably because I already loved the performance I heard.

Well my parents saw this film when it first came out, and both said that they fell asleep during it. But since I enjoyed the Broadway show so much, I bought it and I am so glad I did. Some songs have been transposed to better fit Madonna's strong but limited vocals, and I must say that she does a good job performing the songs in this film. Yes, it's true, she isn't anything like Patti LuPone, but for someone who is not accustomed to LuPone's harsh and riduclous vocals, you'll enjoy Madonna's performance a lot.

All of the music in "Evita" is beautifully written and peformed save a few songs that are too "rock" for my tastes. The costumes are great, the production is great, everything is just surprisingly good. There is no dialogue in the film, but there isn't any in the Broadway play either, so this didn't bother me. The film seems SO long without that 15 minute intermission, and after "Don't Cry For Me Argentina", you're wanting Eva to just die so it'll all be over. But it's still a really enjoyable movie; I just recommend taking a break in the middle.

Antonio Banderas performed well except on a few occasions where his Latino accent gets in the way of this obviously American-written musical. Jonathan Pryce's performance is a joke. He can't act, he can't sing, and it is quite obvious he's lypsynching through the whole film. Jimmy Nail had great vocals but wasn't young enough to play the suave and handsome Agustin Magaldi.

Some of the changes between the Broadway production and film are quite annoying, but if you haven't ever seen the Broadway version then this won't be an issue; Peron's mitress originally performed "Another Suitcase In Another Hall", but the song was sung by Eva in the film. Also, in the opening scenes where Madonna is playing a 15-year-old, they should have given her some heavy duty makeup. She was 38 years old here, but she looks even older.

Overall, not comparing to the Broadway performance at all, I give this film 4 out of 5 stars because of Jonathan Pryce's performance and the "rock" songs.

As a side note, the DVD is pathetic. There isn't any Special Features except Chapter Search, English captions and Spanish subtitles. There is a widescreen DVD available, which is the version I have.