Ok I am a huge Resident Evil fan.... I have all of them except RE:Gaiden and RE:Survivor...(survivor I hear sucked)...
If you are a huge Resident Evil fan this may not make you very satisified.... The reason why is because only certain parts of the game are in it. For instance, Zombies, The T-Virus, Umbrella Corporation, and a small scene of Raccoon City, oh and the Licker from Resident Evil 2. But see, just because they have all these things doesn't mean that it's going to be as great as playing the game because the movie really is just like playing the game because all you do is walk around this place called "The Hive" and try to disable the Red Queen. Now what would've been VERY smart is if they would've had Stars Alpha team be the people who investigated because the other people worked for Umbrella, which kind of made me angry because I hate the Umbrella in the game! They make me so mad with all those lies but hey it's just a game... Ok now here are the facts..
PROS:
Very nice Commentary w/ Milla Jovoich (Actor), Michelle Rodriguez(Actor) , Paul Anderson (Director), Jeremy Bolt (Head Producer).
Very good acting, I personally liked Milla Jovoich's kicks and moves, she's good!
Enough Action to satisfy anyone... Lots of Zombies
CONS:
The parts of the game they put in here are not very well designed, for instance, The Licker. The Licker is the weird bizarre creature we find in Resident Evil 2 on the ceiling of a Police Station in Raccoon City. Well see the thing is that this Licker design in the movie is not completely a clone of the one from the game, so it's not quite like The Licker you'll see in RE:2.
Not well Budgeted..... This movie was not well budgeted and here is why... When you see that lady in the elevator about to get her head chopped off after the T-Virus is released, why don't they show the head get chopped off? LOL Michelle Rodriguez complains about that on the commentary. This movie is Rated R so why can't they show that much gore? Paul Anderson (director) said that the movie had insufficient funds to possibly make gore and stuff. So that was lame. Also Michelle never got to use her knife, and it was because they didn't have enough time or money to show zombie guts getting taken out. 
The Ending was terrible.... WHAT THE HECK HAPPENS! THATS SO ANNOYING YOU CAN'T JUST GET AWAY WITH THAT! The ending leaves you wondering if Matt turns into Nemesis cause that doctor says "I want him in the Nemesis program". And where is Jill Valentine? Where is Brad Vickers? I will give them credit on one condition.... IF THEY PUT JILL VALENTINE IN THERE! WHAT THE HECK WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE IN RESIDENT EVIL 3 THE CITY IS NUKED AT THE END! So how could Alice (milla jovoich) possibly get out of Raccoon City? Thats gonna be an outrage if they do not put something about Jill Valentine on there. Also they MUST have Nemesis! They must because he was part of the story! 
Final Point: This movie is good but not great.... The story line isn't good enough.... But lemme tell you the commentary is great, one of the first I've been happy to hear. So good bye yalls and thanks for reading