Terry Jones documentary The Crusades provides viewers with a brief and humorous introduction to the events of the first four major crusades.  Jones, of Monty Python fame, fills the film with facts, anecdotes, and British humour.  The film is divided into four parts: Jerusalem, Pilgrims in Arms, Jihad and Destruction.  Throughout the sections Jones provided good facts, easy to follow maps, and quotes by European and Arab chroniclers.  He balanced the seriousness of the issues with lighter sections, such as rebuilding siege equipment, learning about medieval horses and armor, and trying to wade ashore in armor in order to copy Richard the Lionheart.  When he's walking on the road in imitation of a crusader he yells for the rain to be turned off, and the effects guy dutifully turns it off and he keeps walking in sunshine.  One section on the history of armor was interesting to me as they talked about chainmaille and the evolution of the sword.

"Jerusalem" started off with the events of the First Crusade.  "Pilgrims in Arms" provides some of the ideological and theological backgrounds to the Crusade, and includes some explanations by Jonathan Riley-Smith.  Jones then outlined the Second Crusade.  "Jihad" described the Muslim counterattacks that finally occurred as a result of crusader invasions and the antagonist Renauld of Antioch.  The Muslims finally united and forced the Europeans to retreat to only a foothold at Tyre.  The final section "Destruction" focused on Richard the Lionheart and Saladin, and the stalemate that occurred during the Third Crusade.  The events of the Fourth Crusade are briefly overviewed at the end, almost as an afterthought.

The film is both educational and entertaining and has a good balance of the two.  Jones interviewed Crusade scholars, mainly France, Tyerman, and Riley-Smith, and used their insight to support his views.  He showed the English scholars as passionate about their fields, and studious to getting the details right.  For me, seeing some authors and hearing them speak, helped make their books more accessible.

The barbarity and piety of medieval Christians are clearly shown throughout all the sections; and the difficulty of combining the two seemingly opposite lifestyles are explained for modern viewers.  Jones visited the major sites and helped the viewer get a glimpse of the difficulties the crusaders were up against, both the thick stone walls and the desert wastelands they had to cross.

There were a couple of events which were portrayed in ways that did not match up with some of the scholarly sources that I've read.  Jones seemed to imply that the discovery of the Holy Lance was an immediate galvanizer that set the Crusaders on a suicide mission to break out of Antioch.  Jonathan Phillips showed it as a slower, more rational process.  Jones also had a very anti-Venetian stance in regard to the Fourth Crusade.  He portrayed Dandolo as manipulating the crusader envoys intentionally, then stealing control of the army for his own devices when they could not pay the bill.  That's not how Queller and Madden portrayed him.

Terry Jones' The Crusades does provide a historical portrayal of the Crusades.  He made use of current experts and original eyewitness accounts to add validity and detail to the film.  While he does perpetuate some negative stereotypes such as crusaders as a reckless mob, and by being anti-Venetian, overall the series seemed to be well researched.  The sections with Riley-Smith helped explain the penitential aspects of crusader motivations, which the public might not be familiar with.  The frequent uses of Tyerman and Riley-Smith would point curious viewers towards good sound scholarship for further details.  In conclusion, Jones made a documentary which is accessible to all sorts of viewers, academic and popular alike.  It's funny and mostly factually accurate and if it has gotten more people interested in the crusades then it has been a success.