We all know Casino Royale was a return to form and loved by most people. Everyone I know was excited for Quantum. Almost all were disappointed. Some have written it felt like a coda to Casino, not a film in its own right. The story isn't nearly as good (thank you, Ian Fleming) and the action pieces were all forgettable, though constant, save for the beginning foot chase (minus over-editing).

But I also think the story doesn't really feel like a continuation, at least in any satisfying way. Casino was so compelling because something was actually happening to Bond directly and emotionally (and Craig is awesome). But Quantum's wrong from its inception. Here, we get a `parallel' story: Bond meets up with a woman who's on her own revenge course, a Bolivian whose parents were murdered by a third world General. And the General's tied in with a criminal organization with the main Villian whose not even shown as responsible for Vesper's death. Mr White is the tie with him and he disappears straight away. How much more thrilling it would have been for Bond to go after those directly responsible for her death while showing him as haunted by her memory throughout (not just the sleep inducing plane scene with Mathis). Remember how driven Bond was in Casino? He should have been possessed in this, a mad chase with all the supporting cast shooting off that...

The director's, Marc Forrester, only contribution to Bond will be to help strip away all cheesy-ness and the fonts of the location names as they appear on screen. Otherwise, he's a Tool. Characteristics of his Toolness: His stark visual sense, trying too hard to be cool. Hint: the locations are suppose to be appealing... maybe they could get ugly girls for the next one to really break with formula? The crappy title sequence done by his "crew." They say they love the 60s and From Russia with Love, but they made it 70s and nowhere near as good as all the recent title sequences. Coupled with the amateurish title song (derivative, depressing, lame). That opera-thing scene where he went "artistic" inter-cutting shots instead of staying with Craig, substituting suspense with pretentiousness. The final "showdown" with that 70s (stark) lair being blown up in pointless and again, yawn, suspense-less fashion.

Great filmmakers would have noticed a few things: the story isn't satisfying. The parallel plot is less compelling, not helped with there being little character development or chemistry between Bond and the leading lady. The action scenes rely on editing instead of suspenseful progression. The Villian's intro at the docks isn't memorable and goes on way too long, cramming in too much story "discussion" instead of progressive scene development. The boat chase that follows goes nowhere. Mathis' intro has two back to back slow (horribly slow) scenes, which he never recovers from, causing little interest in his unmemorable death scene. The opening titles/song are dreary instead of exhilarating (what Bond films should be from start to finish). And the finale is destructive, but boring. The final scene in Russia is good... coupled with the opening foot chase and the scene with M in the Grand Hotel, you have the best bits of the film... that's it, two years and millions of dollars, and that's all you got.

Producers: Please start with hiring great writers (it's a big world, they're out there!) to come up with a great story and script. Haggis is great with dialogue, so you can keep him for that. Stay with the no cheesy-ness, but keep searching for a great director. Style and substance, not style over substance. And don't take a long time, recover the momentum from Casino!