Being a devotee of both opera and ballet, and "The Red Shoes" being one of my favorite films, I expected to love this movie. I was surprised by how little I liked it.

The problem is that, by trying to have everything (film, opera, ballet), the directors ended up with an unsatisfying hybrid that isn't really anything.  For the operatic element, they chose to use a bad English translation (the sort of thing that makes English teachers cry and have sleepless nights) sung by second-rate singers, and poorly lip-synced or not lip-synced at all by the dancers and actors.  Some of the other disappointed reviewers have said it is a ballet, but it isn't really.  There's actually very little dancing - Moira Shearer dances a little at the beginning and in Olympia's tale, and Robert Helpmann spins around a few times, but that's it.  And, unlike in "The Red Shoes," none of the choreography is memorable. The relative lack of dancing left me wondering why it was necessary to use dancers at all, with the exception perhaps of Moira Shearer, since all the dance scenes were hers anyway; why not just use opera singers?  If I'm going to watch people standing or walking slowly around, I would much rather they were actually singing than simply pretending to be singing.  Either an operatic film using real singers (singing in French) but with Powell and Pressburger's visual artistry, or a purely balletic retelling of the story, perhaps using the melodies of Offenbach's opera without any singing, would have been much more effective and more satisfying.

The sets and costumes are ornate, and there are some interestingly hallucinatory film techniques, but even there, while everything was so extravagant, it seemed to me to lack the freshness and inspiration of "The Red Shoes."  Nothing from this film surprised me or stuck in my memory. Also, one of the things that makes "The Red Shoes" so compelling to me is the character of Lermontov, brilliantly acted by Anton Walbrook.  There was no comparable acting or character study in this film.

Finally, most irksome to me was the way the story itself was cut.  We never see the Muse transform into Nicklausse - and, worse, we never see her transform back into herself.  At the end of Offenbach's opera, Nicklausse reveals herself as Hoffmann's Muse and tells him to love art instead of women.  This is the resolution of the story.  The movie, however, ends with Shearer's character simply walking away with the bad guy and Hoffmann left depressed, and the audience wondering what the point of it was anyway. But even that might have been OK if they had cut Nicklausse out entirely; instead they kept him/her, with no explanation at any point in the film as to why some woman dressed as a man is following Hoffmann around and rolling her eyes at everything.  She was poorly cast, too.  Given that she does nothing except look sarcastic in every scene, they might at least have chosen someone attractive.

Some people love this movie, but I would recommend renting it before you buy it to find out whether you are one of those people.  I was glad that I got it from the library instead of buying it.