when  I evaluate a horror flick, its not about "did this film knock my socks off?" i am a horror story junkie, so i want to know, was it executed well, did they provide a good twist to the story (lets face it, most horror scenarios have been done 20 times over, do you think its a coincidence most of the more succesful horror flicks in the past 10 years have been centered around the psyche? its because its the only territory that has not been fully explored, i mean how many ways can killers kill stupid people who wander into the woods? not too many....but its still kind of spooky if the directors do it right) ...
and thats where I want to evaluate this film...
yes, this story line has been done over and over again, i however, believe it has not been done enough, i personally can think of many more scenarios of people getting killed in the woods that i'd like to see played out....
in this movie we get a pretty typically stupid plot, some dumb teenagers get stranded in the woods and split up, and people start dying, the first ones to go as usual are the selfish ones...next are the weak ones you kind of feel sorry for...notice the typical formula????  meanwhile, the other teens come upon a house..no ones home...and so what do they do???..they go in!!!! yup, just like every other crazy horror flick, what happens next, can you guess???  you know how these stories go...
so here's the review....i really enjoyed this movie, i was not expecting too much when i saw it, i just had nothing better to do that day...and after having saw the commercial i doubted this director had much more to offer in the area of teens getting killed by inbred weirdos in the woods...but they did
i found several moments in the movie suspenseful (even though i knew what was going to happen)....although the scenarios have been done before i feel they were executed with a degree of sincerity and beleivability....
very pleasantly surprised, if you can get past having to compare this movie to movies that are not in its class, you'll have a good time