The Onion is a web site that took over, being at the right place at the right time offering the right quotient of humor and commentary about the world. So doesn't it make sense that it would broaden its interest and invade the world of film?

I love movies that offer glimpse into the world of TV and movies. Movies that spoof the whole gamut of trailers, ads, shows and features. Two of the best of these were THE GROOVE TUBE and KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE. They used a combination of each genre they spoofed to make it seem as if you were watching the real thing only in some distorted universe. THE ONION MOVIE tries to do the same thing.

Most of the film revolves around a news program hosted by the honorable anchorman Norm Archer (Len Cariou) who delivers all sorts of news items that make up a number of the onscreen jokes. News items like a recall on new safety harness equipment in cars that go around passenger's necks that instead decapitate the wearer upon impact. Yes, the humor here IS irreverent.

Mixed in with the news is a series of commercials and clips, most notable for the newest Steven Seagal movie coming out, C**KPUNCHER. If only I hadn't seen the previews for this movie it would have been so much funnier. Segal plays this trailer with a straight face, taking a humorous look at himself in the process. Congrats to him for the willingness to do so.

The second most prevalent story here involves an interview with teen pop sensation Melissa Cherry (Sarah McElligott) who keeps saying that there is nothing suggestive about any of her song lyrics or videos. This pretend innocence mimics that of pop stars like Britney Spears as Melissa's song "Take Me From Behind" that features a life sized stuffed teddy bear doing just that while she's on her hands and knees in bed proves she either has no clue what she's singing about or a plan to play innocent while doing the opposite.

A storyline that runs through the news behind the news is seen from beginning to end. Having been bought out by a conglomerate called Global Tetrahedron, product placements are all over the news broadcast. Penguins walking at lower screen level while world news is reported to blatant placements of company products get the best of our intrepid anchorman who complains without success.

One of the worst things about this film is its use of parts of the movie over and over and over again. The Seagal film and portions involving Melissa Cherry are seen from beginning to literally the end of the film. If you don't have enough original material to use why keep playing the same thing over and over to fill in time?

The film offers a few laughs, many of which are seen in the trailer you may have caught on other Fox releases. But for the most part it seems pretty lame. With the Onion as popular as it is, you would expect more from a movie that its name is attached to. I read somewhere that this movie was made several years back and that they had been trying to keep it from seeing the light of day. Someone must have needed a few bucks.