With Kubrick, in most cases, either you're "in" or you're "out" if you know what I mean.  His films are traditionally a little more tense and slower paced that the typical "Blow something up every 3 minutes" movie.  That's 100% good with me so right away I was expecting a Kubrick-esque film.

Man did I ever get it!  This was a very intricate look at how relationships work and what each of our expectations can be like.  We clearly assume WAY too much and this film really highlights that fact well.  You can feel the frustration of Tom Cruise's character as his wife reveals her inner-most fantasies and secrets.  How could this be he thinks?  Well, that's what "Eyes Wide Shut" means!  He sees everything around him but doesn't actually "see it".  His classic view of how Men think and how Women think is all but blown to shreds by his wifes revelations.  Nearly every situation he gets in he is tempted or at least has to deal with a sexual gratification offer and has a hard time escaping.  Its almost as if he is being tested by the marriage gods or something.  Great concept, very cool.

The mansion orgy/sex costume party scene was very dreamy and erotic... it could even be a little frightening only because this is very over the top stuff for the "Joneses" in the world and you really had no freegin idea what the hell Stanley was up to.  I mean what the frick were these people thinking?  Either way, like a train wreck,you can't possibly look away!  I had no idea what to expect with this scene and as usual, Stanley shot it just perfectly with that artsy touch combined with palpable tension.  There was a lot of nudity but it was never "dirty", at least in principle so I had no problem with it.  The Euro version has even more skin.

I will say that the end was rather abrupt and a few loose ends remained but overall I liked this movie a lot and will probably purchase it.

I will warn you though... it is classic Kubrick style with longer scenes, slower pacing, and plenty of build up before much happens.  It is beautifully filmed though and it was easy to feel immersed in the story.  Just don't expect a slam, bam action flick.

HIGHLY Recommended!