COLD MOUNTAIN by Charles Frazier is without a doubt one of the best books I have ever read.  It is a heart-wrenching story about Inman, a soldier fighting for the South in the Civil War, his desertion from the war, and his subsequent journey home.  But it is also about Ada, the spoiled and impractically raised preacher's daughter who is left to fend for herself after her father dies.  It is touching to watch Ada grow before your eyes as she learns to work and take care of herself for the first time, and becomes self- sufficient.  When I discovered they were making it into a movie, I was ecstatic.  I recently saw it, and I give it 3 stars out of 4.  It was a good movie, but not great-(let LOTR win this year!)
First, I wanted to write this review because **I feel as though everyone is missing the point of the story somehow**.  Some have stated they couldn't feel sympathy for Inman because his character was cold, and it glorified a deserter in some way.  Others felt Ada's relationship with Inman was superficial and trite.  It's very important to understand Inman's motivation for leaving the war in order to understand Inman as a person, and his relationship with Ada.

In my opinion, Inman is one of the bravest and most human characters any author has ever written.  In the novel, Inman's inner turmoil is more evident than in the movie, so readers will find themselves better able to sympathize with him than viewers.  Frazier's novel shows Inman is becoming dehumanized by his experiences in the war.  He has seen too much.  He has watched his friends murdered, he has taken lives with his own hands, he has done what he can to survive, and it is not honorable.  It reminds me of the Wilfred Owen poem "Dulce Et Decorum Est" or Randall Jarrell's "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner", because those poems get across to readers there is nothing glorious about war.  What the book gets across beautifully, and where the movie fell short, is the effects of war on the human soul.  Inman's spirit is being BROKEN.  There is a black place inside him he does not know if he can ever recover from.  This is why he knows he must leave.  
Inman doesn't know if he can ever recover from what he's been through.  He has been irrevocably affected by what he's been through, this horrible tragedy that is war.  He sees Ada as his salvation; she is the light at the end of his tunnel, the only possible chance for hope.  Even in the novel, they didn't have much interaction before Inman left for war.  It seemed as though there was much more left unsaid between them than was ever actually put into words.  However, Ada and Inman saw something in each other that was enough to sustain them.  
There were many good points about the film.  Beautiful scenery and cinematography....fabulous costumes...rich characterization.  The two main characters were well cast with wonderful chemistry.  After thinking back on Kidman in "Far and Away", I knew she could pull off Ada's character, which is supposed to be cold and somewhat haughty.  Jude Law is a perfect Inman.  I especially enjoyed the moments between them when they said nothing, yet you KNEW some sort of understanding had passed between them.  Their love scenes were passionate and tasteful.  I loved Donald Sutherland as Ada's father.  Kathy Baker captures the stoicism and stalwart nature of Ada's neighbor Sally Swanger.  I loved Giovanni Ribisi as the money hungry Junior, and Natalie Portman will bring tears to a few eyes as the lonely young widow trying to survive a hard winter with her baby.  Philip Seymour Hoffman is an excellent Veasey, a priest Inman meets on the journey to Cold Mountain.  When Inman meets him, Veasey is attempting to dredge up the courage to kill his pregnant lover--whom he has drugged and stolen from her home in the middle of the night-so the townspeople won't realize what a lecher he is.  
There was one thing that threw the movie off for me.  Renee Zellweger plays Ruby, a strong young woman who comes to help Ada gain control over the house (she's being terrorized by a rooster when Ruby shows up).  Ruby becomes Ada's teacher in all things pertaining to country life and running a farm.  Zellweger did a nice job getting across the conflicted way Ruby felt in regards to her father, the fiddle playing Stobrod, who abandoned her repeatedly when she was a child.  Their relationship was touching.  But while Zellweger provided some much-needed comic relief, her acting was COMPLETELY OVER THE TOP.  She did not so much "steal scenes" as she hurled herself into them and shoved everyone else out of the way.  I did see a few reviewers (a precious few-most people seemed to think she was brilliant and deserves an Academy Award) who felt less would've been more.  The movie is not meant to be hilarious, and her scenes felt too contrived--every time she came onto the screen, people would start to chuckle, knowing something "amusing" was going to happen.  To me, she wasn't amusing so much as just overreaching her role.  I was especially frustrated when she RUINED the moment at the end of the film when Inman is finally expressing his feelings for Ada.  
One of the most touching aspects of the film is when you think about the spirit of the characters in it.  No one was rich; they all struggled to make it through a horrible experience with few resources of their own.  Yet they were still willing to give food off their own tables (and out of their children's mouths) in order to keep some stranger from going hungry.  That kind of attitude and camaraderie was simply unforgettable.  Go see the movie, but don't miss out on reading the book.