I don't have much to say one way or the other about the "Masters of Science Fiction" DVD set. It's neither exceptionally good nor unbearably bad. At worst, it's a decent way to kill a few hours, especially if you did not catch the "acclaimed" series when it aired on network television (I didn't). At best, it's an interesting example of what can result when world-class screenwriters, directors and actors get together to visually interpret well-known science fiction short stories written by masters of the craft, such as Harlan Ellison, Robert A. Heinlein and Robert Sheckley. The six segments in this anthology (two of which did not air in the original series) are not remarkable by any means. Nor are the acting, special effects and production values anything special. I found the whole thing to be just so-so. I'm glad I had a chance to see the shows, and I may re-watch some of them from time to time, but on the whole I was underwhelmed.

I think much of my lukewarm reaction to this DVD set stems from the mediocre authors' works selected. Specifically, I'm very disappointed in the choice of Robert A. Heinlein's "Jerry Was a Man" as the Grand Master's story for this series. In my opinion, virtually ANY other Heinlein short story would have been a stronger, better choice. I can rattle off a long list of MUCH better stories without even consulting my library, classics such as, for example, "By His Bootstraps," "Goldfish Bowl," "And He Built a Crooked House," "Project Nightmare," "The Long Watch," "Year of the Jackpot" and "Sky Lift," to name just a few. I can't imagine why the producers of this series picked the relative stinker "Jerry Was a Man."

Full-length movies of Heinlein's novels have not been conspicuously successful. Consider, for instance, "The Puppet Masters," which was second-rate on many levels, and the truly execrable "Starship Troopers," an embarrassingly inept, relentlessly depressing gorefest that should not even share the name of Heinlein's masterful novel. "Jerry Was a Man" continues the tradition of poor adaptations of Heinlein's stories. In this case, the original story wasn't even that good. I think the DVD set is worth about three stars--it's okay, but nothing to write home about.