FIRST OFF: THIS PRODUCT WASN'T EVEN AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE UNTIL OCTOBER 5, 2010. WHY ARE THERE ALL THESE REVIEWS FROM AS FAR BACK AS 2007? AMAZON, YOU NEED TO SCREEN THESE REVIEWS MORE CAREFULLY.

Man. This is REALLY bad.

The first clue that something is amiss with Season 7 is the packaging. Sony, skanky as they are, did a beautiful job packaging Seasons 1-6. This season, the "honors" went to Shout! Factory. It's like going from the Hilton to the gutter. However, I had purchased "Designing Women" Seasons 1-3, all of which were done by Shout! Factory, and they did a great job, so, although disappointed by the packaging, I didn't think much of it.

When you finally get to the episode selection menu, you'll start to get a sinking feeling. How in the world do you screw up the episode selection page? Well, Shout! Factory has managed it. I have never seen anything so cheap and cheesy looking as part of a DVD set. But OK--who cares, right? I bought this for the series, not the intro stuff.

Well, they've saved the "best" for last. Wait till you get to the meat-and-potatoes of this thing. Shout! Factory has taken this classic series, originally recorded on tape, and TRANSFERRED IT TO FILM. That alone completely destroys the integrity of the original episodes--but don't worry: they didn't stop there. They "enhanced" it. Kind of like the way going to the bathroom "enhances" one's toilet. They have HD'ed or 3-D'ed this thing to death. The result: a comedy that would've scared Hitchcock: it looks like a cartoon that's been filmed in stop-action animation--like bad Claymation. Also, the actors' body parts frequently appear to be out of proportion with one another, and the actors themselves frequently appear out of proportion with each other. (You gotta see it to believe it.) It's the creepiest, most bizarre thing I have ever seen; I can only describe the final product as grotesque.

They also decided to edit out certain naughty words that would have certainly offended viewers' virgin ears. For example, "Goddamn" is replaced with "Rotten damn" in the "The Draft Dodger". I guess they were afraid they'd offend those folks who never objected to hearing "Coon", "Chink", "Jap", "Gook", "Mick", "Spic", "Fairy", "Fag", "Queer", "Hebe", and "Polock" for the previous 6 seasons. Thank God--I mean, goodness--Shout! Factory is there to protect us from this blasphemy through their censorship. But what about all the lip-readers? Oh my...  er...  goodness!

Yes, this is the season where the writing goes downhill. But the writing is nothing compared to carnage awaiting the viewer. These episodes were recently aired on TV Land (or was it Nick at Night?) and looked great! This is an abomination... and that's putting it mildly. How can a series look BETTER on cable than on firsthand DVD?

CONCLUSION: Unless you are a major die-hard fan, I strongly recommend that you sit back, enjoy Seasons 1-6, and mourn what could've been.