When "Planet Terror" ends there should be a series of schlock trailers and then "Death Proof." That was the point of the double feature. There are some who would say, wrongly, that many of us didn't see "Grindhouse" in the theater because we were too lazy to see a 3hr double feature, or  because we saw "Disturbia" neither is true. I for one couldn't afford a baby sitter and the money for a theater seat isn't something we always have, I really hated having to wait for DVD for this. That said, the DVD is shockingly disappointing. The "extended cut" here has the same running time as the "international version" there's ten minutes not seen in the U.S. because theaters didn't want the films w/credits to run over 3hr 30min. If you saw it anywhere in the world other than the United States of America (A Subsidiary of Halliburton) you already saw the "Extended Cut."

For the film itself, mindless zombie gore and explosions. The issue I have with both of these films is that they use modern techniques that takes all the 70's experience out of them. Both films feel like they should be set 30 years ago, but then a cell-phone comes out and you realize that the sense of time here is gone. The CGI combined with the fake scratches and stutters make for an uneven experience. First of all, I just watched "From Beyond" last night, a low-budget gore-fest from the very early eighties and they didn't release it on DVD all scratched and ruined, they fixed it and made it look pristine. The other issues I had with "Grindhouse" included the deep, saturated colors that when a real grindhouse film would look washed out and the rich surround sound when a true grindhouse film would be in mono. The films only look a tiny bit authentic, more like a NIN video than a grindhouse film.

There's no plot here worth talking about. This film is about a government gas that turns people into zombies, the only cure, more gas. As long as you keep inhaling you're fine, stop and you blister, bubble and fall to rubble. It's a film where guns never run of ammunition and a girl can replace a leg with an assault rifle and fire it by simply willing the bullets to come out. Suspend your disbelief here, all who enter!

I like "Death Proof" better. Tarantino rights the best dialogue this side of Kevin Smith and when his film kicks into high-action gear it's earned not taken. Nothing in the 105 minutes of "Planet Terror" is as good as the last 18 minutes of "Death Proof."

There's still rumors the films will appear together as seen in theaters, I recommend renting these and buying that.