Wow, what a movie filled with contradictions.

First off, the positives:
The scenery in this film was WONDERFUL. Nothing short of epic. My hat is off to whomever engineered or imagined all that; he/she did a GREAT job !!
The same for the costume people - everything seemed correct (to my inexpert eye:).
The Buffalo scenes are particularly to be complimented. I'm sure there were animal handlers involved; in fact, I think I read about that years ago, how special care was taken with the animals. That is commendable...

The negatives:
Unfortunately, this part steals the show....It begins with Costner himself; he is a limited actor (Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, with his American accent, etc) who is not suited to a "rugged character" role which this called for.

The worst part, of course, is the politically correct (PC) portrayal of the native Americans. The Sioux tribe is portayed, arbitrarily the viewer must assume, as "innocents" while the Pawnee are thrice shown as evil or savages (they steal the white girl Stands With a Fist, then later happen to raid her village when she is an adult; they murder the uncouth but endearing Timmons, the mule skinner. Incidentally, this actor was the best in the movie, imho).
The Sioux, the quintessential Plains tribe, are depicted as peaceful, taking only what they need and living in harmony with nature; they don't build anything or disrupt the environment, and when they fight it is ONLY to protect their local village from a direct threat (this has overtones of Anarchist political philosophy), and they care for one another.
Is this accurate?? Well, the Plains Indian culture was a warlike, nomadic existence, living in a harsh environment...But the movie never shows the day-to-day harshness of the Plains culture - for example, the elderly woman, whose husband has died, being turned out of a village in winter to sleep with the horses (she has become a liability to the nomadic tribe - with her husband dead she is considered 'dead'); the initiation rites of manhood that must be endured by young men (the failure of which could result in banishment). In short, it portrays all that was good about native American life, while almost TOTALLY disregarding its negatives - without which they would hardly be a part of humanity. The film is silly in this regard...
Compare it to the excellent, more mature 1993 film "Last of the Mohicans" starring Daniel Day-Lewis (much the better actor than Costner). This film correctly portrays the native Americans as "players" rather than "pawns" in the international game of Who Gets America. In "Mohicans" the Indians are correctly well armed, reasonably aware of the politico-military machinations going on around them (in which they in fact partcipate - e.g. the French and Indian War), and above all are shown with human foibles and vices - the same greed, aspirations, etc...
I mentioned "well armed" above. This is particularly misunderstood today. The Indians realized the value of firearms and modern weapons almost immediately upon European settlement. There was a thriving arms trade very soon after Eurpeans arrived. The Indians didn't have the skill to make them yet, but they knew they wanted/needed them. (Research the Battle of Little Bighorn, for one example of white misunderstanding of Indian arms.)
But in Dances w/ Wolves, it appears the Indians are completely under-armed and, in fact, totally oblivious to European technology until they meet Dunbar. This is ridiculous.

Ah well...This movie rested its laurels on an incredibly good scenery/cinematic effort, and a sympathetic PC culture of the very late 1980s and early 1990s as far as its "theme" or "messsage" was concerned.
Its weakest link is Costner who is a marginal actor, much less a director...I can't help wondering what Day-Lewis, teamed with a competent director, might have done with this idea?
The movie did help kick off a resurgence of Western-themed movies, but thats about it.
Regretably, I give it a couple of stars for the scenery, and try to put it out of mind. Its a shame, because this had a lot of potential....