I pre-ordered this item so there weren't any reviews.  After the DVD shipped, I look at the reviews and I was concerned about the DVD.  Many of the reviews are spot-on, but it's not a terrible DVD.  It depends on your perspective.

Yes, some of these concepts might be a little harsh for a young child.  In the first few minutes,Barbie deals with a hateful director, gets fired, finds herself trashed online, and her perpetual boyfriend, Ken, calls her to break up.  Barbie is upset and heads to Paris.

1.  Many parents like Barbie over the Disney Princesses because "she solves her own problems and doesn't have to have a prince rescue her."  Okay, it's a DVD for children.  While there isn't a whole lot of depth, a complicated plot or believeable details, Barbie is indeed solving problems.

2.  Ken gets more depth than I've ever seen.  First off, Raquel (an unknown to me) staged the breakup.  He spends much of the DVD going through mishap after mishap trying to reach Barbie and make up with her.  He gets "snotted" by a child on the plane and licked by a pig.  I still wouldn't call him an intellectual powerhouse, but he does seem to care about Barbie.

3.  Some parents said the troubles were too mature, with Barbie getting fired and the break-up, for young children.  As I watched, this story is contrary to the all-too-perfect existence Barbie has always had.  Who would have thought Barbie would get dumped and fired, all in the same day? While I'm not complaining about the troubles, it does seem to be contrary to the entire Barbie "fairy tale, forget reality" franchise.

4.  I definitely agree with the treatment of Teresa.  She comes across as a complete ditz.  She seems to think Ken's behavior indicates he was kidnapped by aliens.  Most of her lines are so silly they are ridiculous and that isn't in a good way.  She seems ...uh...medicated? For that matter, I didn't care for Raquel, a very flat character.

5.  The whole concept of this story reminds me of the Bratz Fashion Angels DVD(or whatever it was called).  I despise the Bratz dolls and I couldn't help but make comparisons.

6.  The fake French accents were horrid.  (At least I hope they were fake!) They were a "strain on the ear".  The competiting designers from another French fashion house were just nasty, especially with the kidnapping and torture of the fashion fairies with the "cheap perfume".

7.  All in all, it was a good kids' DVD.  I even managed to roll in a French language and culture lesson with it.  (Okay, I had to do most of the work, but my daughter's interest was piqued.  I took the opportunity to teach a little.)