I applaud Dreamworks for providing literal translations for the movie in the form of subtitles. I was pissed when i found out my Jin-Roh DVD's subtitles were designed to match perfectly with the english dubbing, which was designed to match as closely as possible the lip movements of the characters. I hate dubs -- i usually see the original version in japanese with subs, and it's fine. I get exactly what the movie producer wants me to get, even though i speak a different language. But dubs... they just seem to have a different voice, not as gruff, more cutesy, or whatnot, and the dubs being designed more to lip movement (while still attempting to be true) can quite easily ruin a good joke, or throw the kick out of a few important lines.

However, trying to cut corners and save money by combining the subs and captions is just pretty daggom stupid. How hard is it to seperate the two tracks? I've seen worse covers, but i generally don't care. I'm buying it for my viewing pleasure, it's dreamworks job to try to sell it to the masses. I don't think it's really important to them anyway. I mean, comon, let's face it, how many Americans are really into deep, phylosophical 'cyberpunk' movies?

I give it a 3, because the movie was fantastic (I dunno where 'flat' characters came from, or even if it's important to the film simply because of how fabulous it was).

The next DVD release will probably have an English Dub (god forbid Cartoon Network does it), and it will, of course, be designed to match lip movement, so it looks pretty (else it would disturb the viewer too much), while sacraficing the kind of power the lines carry in movies such as these. For the hearing impaired, of course, the subtitles will have to match the voice-overs (grar!). so either way, the story looses its bite, depending on how bad the dub is (again, god forbid Cartoon Network gets this one).

All in all, to get what you really want, you're going to have to learn japanese, or pay a good friend to sub it for you. I doubt that anime watchers constitute a big enough minority for Dreamworks to take both sides, those wanting literal subs and those wanting flowing dubs, seriously enough to provide both on the same DVD. With a hearing impaired track too, if they want to satisfy every minority.