Bruce Lee is known as the Dragon.  But whose Dragon was he?  This film shows that his breakthrough in Hollywood is one of the most important events of the past fifty years there.  His courage in the face of injury, adversity, and racism is the top inspiration to any Asian actor trying to make it there.  Of course, his invention of his teachings, of Jeet Kune Do, marks a milestone in martial arts as well.  This film shows how hard it was to spread his Tao and how wonderful his successes were in his short but intensely full life.  Jason Scott Lee plays him and does it well.  His intire life is portayed faithfully by a cast of lookalikes and people who obviously stick to the true story of his life.  The movie avoids banal music and unnecessary dialogue.  It also really looks like a sixties-to-seventies period piece.  Linda Lee (now Caldwell) is shown as a strong and supportive loving force in his entire adult life. After he leaves Hong Kong to make it in the USA he encounters trouble at the only job he finds, in dishwashing in San Francisco.  His boss gives him the money to go to college and she advises him to cool out and work hard.  He attends Mills College in Oakland where he meets and dates Linda, a cheerleader.  No one seems to approve of him in her life, but she loves him, and enters his world.  He teaches her and everyone else his philosophy and his art.  When nearly disabled in competition, he does not accept it.  Jason Scott Lee shows Bruce's determination to recover.  After that, Hollywood is conquered.  He then shows Hollywood and Hong Kong a thing or two, and there is much success.  The children are born and everything seems fine.  The Dragon is on the move.  But is he?  He dies suddenly in the midst of making a film that is the pinnacle of his career.  Was it murder? A curse? Or just an overdose?  The film ends on this tragic note,as a another Hollywood legend breaks through and crashes too soon.  I am left with the feeling, though, really, that this fierce warrior made his mark and made history.  Remember, a legend never dies.