I recently watched 12'o clock high as a part of the curricula for a leadership program.  I had previously viewed this classic for pleasure over a period of many years ..going back to my childhood in post world war 2 england when this film first appeared..1949.
This film never fails to move me both emotionally and intellectually.  Young boys forced to be men and face death in doing their duty to serve their country and protect the free world in the biggest threat that had been confronted on a global level.
American airman, officers and flight crews, in the first phase of American airpower of world war 2, are being used by the US command to determine maximum effort of planes and men as they carry out a strategy of precision bombing.  The story focuses on a hard luck Group who appear to be losing too many men and planes.  They are commanded by Keith Davenport (Gary Merill) extremely popular with his men, however, his inability to delegate to his fellow officers and his overidentification with his men are causing both his own mental breakdown and may be at the root of the hard luck and the accompanying loss of life.
Enter Gregory Peck, Colonel Savage, an admirer and friend of Davenport the man but critical of Davenport the Commander. Peck is assigned by the commanding general to determine the cause of the problems and turn around the record of the Group.  His strategy is to turn around the whole culture of the Group from a hierarchical structure of benevolent Command from the top to a harsh albeit more democratic sharing of responsibility and leadership from officers and men. He frames for the men the harsh reality of their situation ....stop worrying about getting killed, think of yourself as already dead..dont make plans for the future..dont lean on your immediate buddies and roomates but look to the whole Group as your family because the integrity of the Group when it is in battle formation is what will help survival....  He faces the complete opposition of all his pilots who request a transfer out. He, however has faith in their ability to be adults and begins to build a critical mass of support,little by little, by going back to basics in his training and in his communication.  The process of building the foundation to ensure the Group's ability to deal with the maximum effort...takes it's toll on Peck who, in sense, doesn't deal with his own reality as another human being pushed to the extent of his own threshold of maximum effort.
The story highlights different modes of leadership in the face of the most difficult of circumstances.  
As you watch the film notice different artifacts that are used to dramatize the story..a pewter mug in the Shape of a Pirate Captain used to conjure up the memory and the telling of this story; flight boots used to pass on the mantel of leadership; an airplane dubbed the leper colony manned by malingerers and the less competent but transformed into a place of learning and redemption, the chevrons on the sleeve of a sergeant that are removed and replaced as the sergeant makes mistakes and redeems himself.
This finally is another story of the greatest generation who went through a rite of passage, survived if they were lucky enought, while they were making the world safe for all of us...Bless them all..the long and the short and the tall!!!