I expected nothing less from ultra liberal, bordering on communist Oliver Stone.  How easy it is to be a leftist when you have fortunes in the bank, made possible by our American capitalist system.  Mr. Stone knows full well that Latin America is in deep trouble and Chavez and co are nothing but a bunch little dictators who from time to time are given a voice to defy our American Government, particularly the government of George W. Bush.

I believe that Mr. Stone's objective in this movie is to make us believe that American interventionism has caused great hardship around the world.  He will make you believe that the US government controls the IMF and in turn the IMF controlled Latin America.  But all of a sudden Chavez comes to power and he defies the US and defies the IMF and  prosperity arrives in Latin America, the US is kept at bay and Latin America flourishes.

Dear friends, the reality could not be further from the truth.  I know because my family lived in Venezuela for over 30 years, and what once was a beautiful country, today is just ruins.  Do some reading of your own and you will realize that Mr. Stone has pulled a very crafty con job on you.  Venezuela has become a tyrannical dictatorship where people and corporation are loosing land, property, etc.  Chavez confiscates property at will.  Is this the prosperity that Latin America needs?  There is no freedom of speech, or freedom of the press, unemployment and inflation are on the rise, there is no confidence in government institutions, no foreign investment, declining oil production.  It will take decades to recover from Chavez's rule, if he ever leaves office (very unlikely).

I don't recommend you buy this inaccurate portrayal of Chavez and his buddies.  However, if you can watch it for free on Netflix, as I did (I will never pay money ever again to watch an Oliver Stone movie), make sure to read about the reality in Latin America so you can enjoy dissecting the deception that Mr. Stone is trying to sell you with fancy camera shots and little dictator's poor acting.