I was born and raised on the Apache Reservation.  The child in the movie was from Whiteriver, AZ, my grandfather's hometown.  I have seen the movie.  It does have some historical accuracy in the sense that the real Apache language was used and that "mixed-blood" families are very common among Native Americans.  As a matter of fact, "mixed-blood" Indians outnumber "full-blooded" Indians by far.  The Cherokees are a perfect example (who include Burt Reynolds as a member) along with the Lumbees (who include Heather Locklear).

I thought Gregory Peck's character was unrealistic.  He is too old and slow to survive in the rugged terrain of New Mexico.  As a real Apache, I have ancestors who were scouts for the US Calvary (Chief Alchesay won the Medal of Honor).  I also have other ancestors who were renegades (Apache Kid).  The reality of the Apache Wars is that Geronimo was run down by Apache Scouts.  Some of them were even his relatives.  General Nelson Miles actually had over 500 Apache Scouts on his side along with 5000 US troops.  Geronimo had only 17 warriors at the very end.  The movie also does not depict the scalp bounty system by Old Mexico on Apaches.  They offered 100 pesos for a male, 50 for a woman, and 25 for a child.  Slavery was still imposed upon Apaches during the war with Victorio by the Spanish Government.  This was in the 1880s.  Some of the Apache slaves were sent to Cuba.  So the "Stalking Moon" is not entirely accurate.  In addition, the vast majority of Native Americans were killed by smallpox.  I have never seen a western movie that shows this reality.

I thought "Hombre" by Paul Newman was much better.  His portrayal of an Apache-raised white man had much more realism, which is in contrast with Charles Bronson in "Chato's Land."  We thought Bronson's acting was not reflective of a real Apache, but Paul Newman had it right.  In real life, I'll bet Gregory Peck would have had a heart attack trying to hike Mount Turnbull in the midst of terrain teeming with wild black bears, rattlesnakes, the Mexican wolves, Gila Monsters, scorpions, and centipedes in the harsh cold winter or overheated summer.  He is far too slow for the reality of Apache warfare of the time.  Mountain running foot-speed at 50-70 miles per day was common in those days.  Most of the Apache Scouts were from San Carlos and Whiteriver.  Some of Alchesay's relatives served in WWII. One of them was an Apache US Marine at Iwo Jima (Semper Fidelis - USMC).