Its hard for me to review this movie as an adult.  I was a large fan of the Indiana Jones movie as a child growing up, and this was the only one of the original trilogy that I had the opportunity to see on the big screen, and I loved it.  It was very action packed and funny and never really let up.  It did capture the imagination of my child mind, but now watching it as an adult I have to say that the reason that it captures your imagination is that none of it is possible. The movie starts with a great introduction of Indiana as a teenager discovering "evil grave robbers" discover a historic cross, wait a second isn't that kinda what indy does his whole life, digging up historical artifacts, because as it is explained "it belongs in a meuseum".  It is with such broad stroke morality that the rest of the movie can be told.  In the special features it is discussed that this is really the one that Spielberg and Lucas made as a crowd pleaser.  The chase ends with a train pursuit where we learn in broad strokes where Indy's fear of snakes comes from and where he originally got his scar.  At the end of it, Indy is trapped at a locked kaboose with no way to escape, but wait, there are a lot of items used in a magic act laying about in the car, so Indy goes into a magic box and when the bad guys come in to find him, they open the box that desinigrates but with no trace of Indy.  Indy is then scene running outside the car, which by the way opens for the bad guys to better see Indy making his escape.  I remember from that era that magic was really popular, and really worked best on film as you could cut it together to make it look however you want, even though we know this is impossible for magic prop to transport indy outside of the car, its an effective film gag that leaves my adult self scratching my head.  Indy returns to his house where the police are waiting and take the cross back to the legal and rightful owners, cut to adult Indy, still searching after the cross, where he kills every one of the legal owners to take it back to a meusium.  Also notice that the lovable villain that gave Indy his trademark hat isn't on the boat that gets blown up.  So we learn about the grail then go to Venice to the most problematic scene of the movie.  The sewer made of gas.  Indy and his love interest are walking through said moat of petrol with torches that you can see pits of the tourch dropping off and falling still ablaze into the liquid.  The defenders of the grail discover Indy is looking for the grail and light the sewer.  Indy hides under the coffin that keeps them from burning up, looks underwater, i guess the liquid turned to water, cause gasoline would burn your eyes if you were swimming in it, and finds an exit to swim into the vinice sewer system.  Thats right, the petrol sewer under the library connects with the water based venice sewer, nulifying the need to go through the library to begin with, not to mention that the petrol would dilute with the water, and notice how as the defenders of the grail, when leaving the library, are in a dead sprint, as if they know Indy escaped, but its so faced paced, you really aren't supposed to ask questions.  I don't understand why Indy is let go after the boat chase.  We go to get his father from Austria, and I still don't understand why Indy goes through the window to avoid triggering the door alarm when after he reunites with his father, they leave through said door.  I don't see why the plain would go through the tunnel, makes no sense.  Also when on the blimp and the funny no ticket line that all the germans react to, when its not in german, and it would definately give Indy away as being an American.  There is the sign that says Venice this way, Berlin the other, like those are the only two points that are of any consequence in Austria.  The entire movie is driven to get to the stunt scenes, embrace the popular christian faith as to reinforce basic morality without becoming preachy as their is no substance to this movie, and show a humorous coming together between Indy and his father.  Nazi's are stupid and as Stevie says, its a get out of jail free card to abuse a Nazi.  Its broad strokes history that in retrospect Nazi's were bad, they burned books, Indy saved the day.  This is the worst of the original trilogy by far, and even though its not exactly a reality based series by any means, a lot of the solutions that are made in this movie are so impractical that it head scratching.  I do love the Sean Connery, especially his well now what do you want to talk about speach, or that they both diddled the same girl.  There is definately style in this movie, but I think the creator became too comfortable in that style and quit trying, not as bad as crystal skull which is unwatchable, but still very shallow film.  Great effects and do have to watch it without thinking too hard.  Great visuals.  Definately worth watching though, at least once.