Reading all the reviews for this movie I'm wondering if I'm missing something or if other viewers are.  To me, this was a picture that could've and should've been a top-notch, bigger than life movie with a powerful message, great and intense acting, and an incredible script.  Two out of three ain't bad, I suppose, but the third part, the script, is what killed it for me.  The whole set-up of this film came across as weak to me.  The story is told, for the most part, in linear fashion, with a few flashbacks for each individual prisoner so we get a better look at their lives before they were in prison, and what put them there.  Each story is different, and interesting.  The problem wasn't with the flashbacks, however, it was with how they were presented.  In fact, I think thats my main problem with this whole movie, is its presentation of the events.  I feel it could have been more powerful and far more effective to start in the middle, with the Doctor leaving the soccer game and then on to the riot--how it escelated to the level that it did, and what happened in the time between the start of the riot and the final massacre by the Brazilian police.  In that time between, sort of which was the set-up of City of God, there could have been flashbacks that described the characters and their actions.  One thing that bothered me was they dialogue between the characters and the doctor.  None of it seemed true.  Sure, people would open up to a Doctor that they trust, but something in the blatant way the prisoners so individualy just came up and started confessing to the Doctor didn't hit home with me, and seemed kind of false.  The same goes for the interviews by the prisoners during the riot scenes.  For the most part, I don't think they were necessary.  Instead, perhaps, the Doctor's character (I forget his name) could have been a constant narrator, and not just a narrator whose voice is heard occasionally, as was the case.

Well, to make a long review longer, this movie had promise but was poorly excecuted to me.  Just because a movie has a powerful message doesn't mean its always a good movie (see Gus Van Sant's attrocious "Elephant" for a prime example of that).  Still, the acting and directing, and the actual events, may make this film worth watching at least once.  However, for a more styalized yet still accurate look at the violence and corruption that exists between Brazil's police and citizens, City of God is your best choice.