<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000PFSYO4">Justice League - The New Frontier (Two-Disc Special Edition)</a>

Disclosure - I have not read the trade that this feature is based on, so I have no basis for comparison.  I'm writing this review based solely on my viewing of the Unbox version of the movie.

After seeing a lot of hype about this cartoon on sites like IGN, and being a DC comic book fan, I decided to download this movie to my Tivo.  I had great expectations for this 'toon because:

a:) The book it's based on is supposed to describe the formation of the Justice League through Hal Jordan's (Green Lantern) eyes

b:) I was largely unimpressed with the studio's previous effort Superman: Doomsday <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000PE0G0A">Superman - Doomsday (DC Universe Animated Original Movie)</a> and wanted to see if they had improved

My biggest problem with this 'toon is that it doesn't seem to know what it wants to be: a cartoon for adults, complete with a surprising amount of blood (not that there's anything wrong with that) or a cartoon for kids with moral messages, camaraderie and warm fuzzies. In one scene Hal Jordan can be seen killing a Korean soldier after a struggle, with blood spattering on his forehead. In another scene Superman gives a cheesy, rallying peptalk to superheroes and soldiers by ending with "Are you with me?!!" which results in a hearty "YEAH!!!"  Perhaps this 'toon is trying to accomplish both objectives, but for me neither were achieved.

I was also sad to discover that Hal Jordan does not figure prominently in the story line, at least not as Green Lantern.  In fact, you could say the story is largely told through the eyes of Martian Manhunter.  Green Lantern doesn't make an appearance util the last quarter of the 'toon and even then does not come close to fully utilizing his considerable power.

Some more minor quibbles include:
- A plot that advances in fits and spurts.  To me it felt like pieces of the story were missing, with the plot unfolding in cut-out stages (now we're in the "big evil bad guy arrives" stage!) as opposed to something more organic.

- An art style that puts creases on the faces of our heroes (a hold over from the Doomsday 'toon) - why do they all look so...old?

Ultimately, and perhaps most damning, I didn't care for the characters and the challenges they faced, despite being a bought-in DC fan.