This is a great box set of all three Ray Harryhausen Sinbad movies. There is no continuity between the three, however, and they can be watched in any order. I recommend chronologically in order of release (7th Voyage, Golden Voyage, and Eye of the Tiger). Curiously, the box lists them in the order Golden Voyage, Eye of the Tiger, and 7th Voyage. No idea why.

The best plot of the three and the best film of the three is Golden Voyage. It seemed to me to have the most imaginative elements, the best cast overall, and a few good subplots. The scenes with the Oracle and the fight with Kali are especially good. 7th Voyage is a close second. Eye of the Tiger has the weakest plot of the three with major lapses in logic at the end. On the other hand it did try to mix up the elements of the previous films somewhat by having a magician and a monster as allies instead of adversaries. Unfortunately, it also burdened the story with two women with no connection to the main plot, just eye candy.

The best Sinbad is Kerwin Matthews in 7th Voyage. He's not a great actor by any means but more than serviceable here. John Philip Law's performance lacks vigor and is really too laid back, like he is phoning it in. Patrick Wayne, the worst actor of the three, actually does a commendable job. He's animated and energetic and doesn't drag down the film.

The best villain is Tom Baker but Torin Thatcher and Margaret Whiting are also good. Baker's performance is truly fine and he really gets everything out of his scenes. The villains were the best actors in each film.

The best leading lady is Caroline Munro in Golden Voyage although Kathryn Grant in 7th Voyage is also good. The mysterious looking Munro seemed better cast for a film with dark overtones than girl next door Grant. Jane Seymour and Taryn Power, as I said above, add little but eye candy to the film. Attractive eye candy to be sure, but eye candy nonetheless.

Highly recommended to all film fantasy fans. The Harryhausen effects are marvelous. You won't think you might be watching CGI but they truly make the films. Just go with them.