People today often become captivated by visual images of all kinds, including visual images connected to music in some way.  This idea of visual music escalated with the marketing of pop music videos in the 1980s and has spread into the area of classical music as well.  In a broad sense, one wonders why a listener would want a filmmaker interpreting the music for him, especially when the person can simply listen to the music alone to gain insights.  Maybe what one's own mind comes up with in a listening experience means more than watching assorted interviews of musical experts, or visual effects created by producers or video technicians.  You don't necessarily have to "see" music: if a listener wants more information about a work, the person can consult countless articles and books, reading as much as one wishes in researching answers to his/her questions.

I have met filmmaker Jason Starr and attended showings of two of his videos on Mahler:  "Of Love, Death, and Beyond, Exploring Mahler's Resurrection Symphony" and "What the Universe Tells Me--Unraveling the Mysteries of Mahler's Third Symphony."

I rated these programs at the lowest level because their thin content doesn't offer much of significance, plus they introduce misleading material.  For instance, in the program on the Resurrection symphony, when discussing Mahler's youth in Bohemia as a Jew, Starr presents a recreated Austrian Roman Catholic funeral procession, creating a context problem.  And when discussing the Klopstock Ode of the last movement, Starr shows a choir singing at that point, implying they sing the music of the Ode as once heard by Mahler.  But we can't confirm exactly what music Mahler heard on that occasion, or to what extent he incorporated into the movement.  We also see images presumably depicting what departed people see after death--based on Starr's ideas I guess.

The program on the Third symphony contains many similar fanciful visual effects, such as his depiction of God, or love or the Universe, in the last movement.  The program's title suggests how much Starr overreaches: most of Mahler's movement descriptions concern the Earth--mountains, flowers, lower animals, man--not the entire starry Universe as the filmmaker suggests.  In fact, what big "mysteries" referred to in the title actually exist in regard to the Third symphony?  Mahler pretty clearly documented in print what the symphony deals with, and of course one can hear his magical visions of nature in the music itself, without the aid of a video production. So what do we need to "unravel?" (I do really like the complete performance of the Third that Starr excerpted for the video--the young musicians of the Manhattan School of Music conducted by Glen Cortese, available on 2 CDs, without the Starr film.)

If you want thought-provoking video material about Mahler, investigate Leonard Bernstein's "Little Drummer Boy" and "Four Ways to Say Farewell," or even Christoph von Eschenbach's intriguing "A Wayfarer's Journey," to name a few.  But no film productions about Mahler surpass the enjoyment of you listening to the music yourself, and letting it engage your mind.  Mahler's music, after all, ignites intense, deeply personal feelings and impressions--your own of course, those that matter the most.