Season 7 is a real mess to be honest...Carell's departure inevitably overshadowed pretty much the whole season, and it is going to be very interesting to see how the show develops with its central character gone. It's a testament to how far this fantastic show has come from its English parent that the central figure can go and the show can even consider continuing - if David Brent left the English version there would not really have been a show..but the strength in depth in the US version means that there is enough there to work with.

The main problem i have with this season is the complete lack of credibility - i know that you shouldn't judge any shows, particularly sitcoms on their realism, but too many things happen in this season that prompt the reaction "yeah but..." to be forgivable. Things like what does Ryan actually do (surely his story arc burnt out after he lost the job at corporate and was sent to jail?). Likewise what does Gabe do and bring to the show - the characters don't regard him as the boss and the Gabe/Andy/Erin triangle is pretty unfunny - he's not been a good addition and towards the end his whining/nutter stuff is just odd. The whole Sabre thing has been quite poorly done overall - I miss David Wallace and the others at Corporate, although the Sabre storyline addressed the economic climate in Season 7 it seems things are fine and dandy in season 7 - Jim even moans about hitting his commission cap!

The pranking with Jim and Dwight is great fun, and recalls some of the earlier seasons, but at times feels bit deja vu, and you wonder whether the characters have progressed at all. Will "Marmite" Ferrell will divide viewers, personally i don't rate him at all, and felt his sole purpose was to keep a big name in the frame during Carell's exit. In fact the guest stars generally get in the way this season (it's well said that when a sitcom starts dropping in guests regularly alarm bells should start ringing) - Timothy Olyphant is great in his shows and then disappears completely and is therefore another "yeah but" which is distracting, and although i laughed at Ricky Gervais' cameo it felt very indulgent and out of place.

That's not to say that this season is all bad - there are a couple of runs of great episodes about a third through and again near the end which hopefully will lead to greater things- with Michael gone we need a new boss who has an authority figure to bounce off, and more screen time for some of the tier 3 characters like Creed - one of the weaknesses of this season was the focus on the other tier 1 characters other than Michael, but a dumbing down of some of the tier 2 like Kevin (too stupid to be believable) Angela (basically a one joke character) and Erin (cute but stupid, albeit funnier than Kevin is now). Creed and Meredith who usually provide some of the unexpected classic moments (my personal favourite's being creed blog = a word document) barely have a page worth of dialogue between them.

In terms of quality this is probably the worst season after the first (which was utterly dreadful and basically a line-for line reworking of the English version with the names changed at times). It was during seasons 2 and then with the stellar season 3 this show became a classic - Season 6 was a bit off and this is worse again; let's hope a new direction and some tighter and more realistic writing with better arcs will see this show not just limp on but reach the heights of the classic years. Michael's departure doesn't mean the end of the Office by a long chalk...