"Along Came A Spider" is a prequel to the 1997 film, "Kiss the Girls" which also starred Morgan Freeman as detective Alex Cross.  Detective Cross is a serial kidnapper profiler who becomes involved in a cat and mouse chase that ensues when the daughter of a US Senator is abducted from her high security private school.  In order to solve the crime Freeman teams up with the head Secret Service agent in charge of security at the kidnapped child's school, a dubiously cast Monica Potter.  Since I am only used to seeing Ms. Monica frolic about in lightweight chick flick films I was surprised to see her granted such a meaty role...but anyway. 
  This is the sort of movie that is better if you know as little about it as possible so I will not spoil it for you by getting into details.  I will say that, like a spider's web, the plot is as intricately woven and full of dead flies (just kidding about the flies).  Some parts of the story are completely unpredictable and exciting while others are almost expected...but in the end you'll wonder about the expected parts...that's all I can say.
  Freeman does a fine job in his role...but he's had enough practice don't ya think ("Kiss The Girls", "Seven").  Potter, though at first seemed only cast for her pretty face, really pulls off her role well-I have to admit that I was surprised and as a results she's chalked up a few points in my book.
Recommendation:  This film is interesting, suspenseful, and well worth the watch.  The people I've spoken with have given it mixed reviews.  Like it or not (you'll probably like it unless you have ESP like my Mom...she always figures out the who-done-it's before she even sees the film...well, that what SHE says)  you'll have a strong opinion and it will give you lots of fuel for debate.  "Along Came A Spider" is no "Silence of the Lambs", but to give it a little more credit...it's also no "Kiss the Girls" (and I mean that in a good way).  You'll be thinking about this movie long after the final credits have rolled (check out the credits for "man who can't answer the phone" and "potentially evil guy on train", I'm serious!).