This movie truly astonished me and I just don't get all the negative reviews. I've even seen serious critics complain that it didn't develop the relationship between the two principle characters enough. So what? That's like saying that Fargo is flawed because it never explained why Jerry Lundegaard was in such financial difficulties. That misses the point entirely.
My 25 year old son warned me against seeing this. But I think his problem was that he was looking for a space opera like Star Wars or Star Trek Strikes Again. This is not a space action adventure, although it IS visually stunning and the music is glorious, I don't care if it is derivative (I would say the music is more an homage to 2001 than an imitation). So instead of an action adventure where special effects are an end in itself, this movie presents some really intruiging ideas about an alien life force (not life form, except in the guise of mystical looking, whispy clouds shrouding the planet Solaris) that seems desperately to want to "fix things up" when individuals from an intelligence species like homo sapiens misunderstand each other resulting in tragic consequences. The logical conclusion of this "procedure" just blew me away as portrayed in the last fifteen minutes of this movie, which I will not reveal as it should come as a total surprise to the viewer, although in hindsight there were hints enough that it could come to this, and then you have to wonder about the validity of human self-identity and the relativity of our own individuality. You will also be wondering about the "morality" of this kind of redemption. Is it good, or is it bad? I really have to wonder, which is why I look forward to viewing the movie again and again when it comes out on DVD.
As you can perhaps see from my review, what is really going on in this movie is actually philosophically rather abstract, and so the many criticisms of this movie on concrete points are really irrelevant. This will probably be a box office flop because it will take too long for the good things about it to get around, and the movie industry has little patience when a movie doesn't immediately start dragging in tens of millions the first week. But I predict it will become a cult hit on DVD, as people buy it and watch it ten times or more just to go through the experience of contemplating all the cosmic and philosophical issues the movie raises.
I might add that I never read the book and did not see the original movie. This movie stands on its own and I am sad to see that the original movie ruined the experience of this movie for so many others. I remember how disappointed I was seeing the movie "Tom Jones" when it first came out because, as happenstance would have it, I'd just read the book. I saw the movie twenty years later and realized then that it is a masterpiece. I've since become very skeptical about people criticizing a movie simply because it wasn't like the original or betrayed the book. Sometimes movies are mere inspirations from previous works, and so should always be judged on their own merits, as hard as this often is to do.