The parallels between Clinton's campaign and Barack Obama's later on are quite strong, making The War Room rather timely. There's no question that their campaign was a real game changer and one can see Obama applying many of the same tactics as Clinton employed with equally favorable results. What James Carville and George Stephanopoulos did worked: Clinton was elected President of the United States. Carville went on to appear in minor roles in a few movies and also starred in a short-lived HBO T.V. series directed by Steven Soderbergh and produced by George Clooney. Stephanopoulos parlayed his success into high profile hosting gigs on several T.V. news shows.

The first disc includes the "William J. Clinton Foundation Panel," which consists of excerpts from a panel discussion held in 2011 to mark the 20th anniversary of Clinton's announcement to run for president. Carville and others recount their experiences and remember how exhausting it was because of the unrelenting pace. Clinton himself shows up and offers his recollections.

The second disc starts off with Return of The War Room, the 2008 follow-up documentary that sees Hegedus and Pennebaker check in with some of the major players from their previous film. They reflect on the '92 campaign and its legacy. Carville speaks of the vibe of the campaign team headquarters while others talk about how Democrats were ready to fight back. Many of the participants put certain incidents in the film in context and offer their opinion of it.

"Making The War Room" features the filmmakers and key crew members sharing their experiences of making the famous documentary. Hegedus talks about its origins, including how he got Pennebaker involved. The veteran filmmaker had always wanted to make a documentary about a man becoming president but never had access until he met Hegedus. Originally, they wanted to cover the Republicans, Ross Perot and the Democrats but they were turned down by the first two.

Pollster Stanley Greenberg talks about the misunderstood art of polling - what it is and how it's done. Essentially, it captures what an election is all about - the issues that drive it.

Finally, a theatrical trailer is included.