Right on the heels of "Obsession" (1975), DePalma directed the film adaptation of Stephen King's first novel, "Carrie" (1976), the story of the girl with telekinetic powers who is the underdog in her high school, and has a very horrific date to the prom that goes horribly awry. Produced by Paul Monash and scripted by Lawrence D. Cohen.
Well, to begin with, it's neat, knowing how DePalma works, loving to tell stories in complicated ways, using flashbacks, weaving back and forth, and nonlinear fashion, that he would choose to use a very straight forward approach with this film, when the source novel itself was written in a back and forth, nonlinear fashion, with lots of flashbacks.
The film opens with an awesome crane tracking shot showing high school girls outside playing volleyball, and the camera slowly moving in on one particular girl as you hear voices in the background saying "Hit it to Carrie, she'll miss it, hit it to Carrie", and they do, and she misses the ball. Then as they are all passing by her to shower, they tease and taunt her some more, calling her vile names.
Cut to the shower room, now the film is moving in glorious slow motion, in a very erotic way during what could be concidered a very erotic scene: A girl, naked, showering, feeling her naked body with her hands as she soaps herself down, making her way down between her legs, where her hands linger for a while. Then we see blood slowly pouring down her legs from her vagina...Carrie White (Sissy Spacek in an Oscar nominated role) is having her first menstrual cycle at the age of 17. Well, every girl in the gym shower room starts hollering "Plug it up! Plug it up!" as they start throwing tampons at her. The scene has now turned viciously ugly in the blink of an eye. Miss White (Betty Buckley), the gym teacher immediately tends to Carrie, even having to slap her trying to calm her down, and a light bulb busts.?.?.
In the principal's office, Miss White is explaining to the principle how nasty the girls were because Carrie was having her 1st period at such an age, and did not know what was happening to her, matter of fact she thought that she was bleeding to death. The principle, Mr. Morton (Stefan Gierasch) calls Carrie into the office to excuse her from school for the afternoon, and as he speaks to her, he keeps calling her Cassie, and as we see Carrie getting upset, a huge marble ashtray begins to warble on the principle's desk, then go flipping through the air when she declares her name is Carrie.!.
As she is walking home, a young kid on his bicycle (Cameron DePalma, Brian's nephew) goes out of his way to ride by her calling out "Creepy Carrie! Creepy Carrie!" just as his bike flips into the air, throwing him off of it.?.?.
Carrie is utterly mystified by these occurances.
She arrives home where she lives with her crazy, deranged, religious fanatic mother, Margeret White (Piper laurie, who DePalma got to come out of retirement for this role, and she was nominated for an Oscar, too, for her performance in this). Margeret blames Carrie for the incident at school (for having her menstrual cycle), and locks her in a closet to pray for forgiveness for her sins. As the film progresses, we learn that the closet and Carrie are no strangers to one another, and that Margeret White is utterly insane. And, for reasons well understood, Carrie doesn't want to be like her mother, she wants to be normal and have people like her, something each and everyone of us can relate to; a very Human condition.
Back at school, Miss Collins punnishes the girls in Carrie's gym class by putting them in detention, HER detention, and punnishment for not showing up is 3 days suspension from school and refusal of sales of prom tickets, hitting them where it really hurts. The key members in this little scenario are Chris Hargenson (Nancy Allen, who would go on to star in 3 other DePalma films, "Home Movies", "Dressed To Kill", and "Blow Out", and then onto a few B-rate films, like the "Robocop" films, and "Strange Invaders"), a snobby b**ch who lives to make Carrie's life miserable, her two friends, Norma Watson (P.J. Soles, "Halloween", "Rock -N- Roll High School") and Helen (Edie McClurg, "Planes, Trains, & Automobiles), who all end up in Chris' scheme to sabotage the prom after Chris gets kicked out of detention and refused her prom tickets. And, there's sympathetic Sue Snell (Amy Irving (DePalma's "The Fury", "Traffic"), who feels sorry for Carrie, so she ends up asking her jock boyfriend Tommy Ross (William Katt, "House", tv's "Greatest American Hero") to take Carrie to the prom. Meanwhile, Chris is convincing her thuggish, sick/twisted/psychotic high school drop out boy friend Billy Nolan (John Travolta in his first film) to help get even with Carrie White (she blames Carrie for not being able to attend the prom). It involves pig blood and rigging the prom's King and Queen votes so that Tommy Ross and Carrie White will win.
The prom sequence has gone down in movie history as one of the greatest scenes ever in horror film and/or drama (and/or satire), for this film is all three genres.
In the meantime, Carrie starts noticing her 'power', like breaking a mirror in her bedroom just by thinking about it in anger, then placing it back together without even touching it, well, like she did with the lightbulb and the boy on the bicycle earlier in the film. We also get to learn a lot more about her demented home life with her scary deranged mother, who when learns of Carrie going to the prom starts hissing "They're all gonna laugh at you! They're all gonna laugh at you!" in almost a prophetic way. Carrie, again, has to use her 'power', which she now knows is telekinesis because she has done a lot of reading up on the subject, mentally holding her mother down as she leaves for her date to the prom...Her date with destiny.?.?.?.
DePalma's pacing during this long drawn out set piece is awesome! The way he puts Tommy and Carrie in a spinning cycle dancing to symbolize the exuberation of how Carrie is feeling will leave you breathless. They are voted King and Queen of the prom. Meanwhile, Sue Snell has snuck to the prom to see how things are going, and she is the only person to see the rope leading up to the bucket right over the stage where the King and Queen of the prom will stand, done in a great crane tracking shot in slow motion (with an awesome score by Pino Donnaggio throughout the entire film, especially here), but she gets thrown out of the auditorium by Miss Collins before she can warn anyone about what she has seen. Meanwhile, Billy and Chris are below a set of steps that lead to the stage, arguing and carrying on like nothing is out of the ordinary.
As soon as the doors close on Sue Snell, the bucket of blood falls, and then the rest is movie history! Let's just say that all H*ll breaks loose, and only Carrie leaves alive from a burning auditorium of screaming students, something that is VERY haunting...The screams as she is walking out, and the doors close by themselves behind her. DePalma's use of split screen during Carrie's revenge sequence is utterly amazing!
After going home, bathing off the blood, and thinking she is being consoled by her mother, her mother (literally) stabs her in the back.
The 'crucifixion' of Margeret White is something that has to be seen to be believed! An awesome spetacle to rival anything ever done in horror!!
And, she ends up modeled just like the plaster Jesus in the 'praying closet' that Carrie grabs her dead mother and hides in as the house burns down, killing them both.
Cut to Sue Snell, where we see her in bed, sleeping, tossing and turning a bit, then her mom (Priscilla Pointer, Amy Irving's real-life mom) on the phone talking about how the doctors said Sue would be alright in due time.
Then, cut to the most famous scene in the film next to the prom sequence: Sue Snell is walking up to where Carrie's house used to be with flowers in her hands, and she leans down to place the flowers beside a for sale sign with 'Carrie White Burns In H*ll' spray painted over it in red, and a hand comes out of the ground and grabs Sue by the arm and starts tugging.
The best part of the film, in my opinion, is the next scene, which is the end of the film, in which Sue wakes up all frantic and screaming, with her mom consoling her, and Sue is continuosly screaming as the camera, in another great crane tracking shot, starts bacing away, up toward the ceiling as mother tries to console daughter, saying "It'll be alright, Sue, it will be alright, Sue!" (the backward crane shot mirroring the opening crane shot, and the message that it will be a LONG time before Sue Snell forgets this whole nightmare).
One of the (if not the) best psychological, telekinetic, sinister, horrorfying, satiric tragedies ever filmed.
HIGHLY recommended! Happy Halloween!! ;-)