The great thing about this DVD is that it offers the equivalent of a Saturday matinee.
  1)The ORIGINAL THEATRICAL TRAILER acts as a kind of Cliff's Notes for those who prefer not to drink the Jarmusch kool-aid in that all the information one needs to talk superficially about the film is condensed to 2 minutes.
  2)GIRLS ON THE BUS is a delected scene that works as a cartoon.
  3)FARM HOUSE is a 4 minute documentary of JJ explaining his methodology.
  4)BROKEN FLOWERS START TO FINISH, the coup d'oeil, is a wonderful 7 1/2 minute short that consists of most of the film's clapboard shots spliced together. It will seem like just so much paint drying to anyone who has not enjoyed the film.
  5)THE FILM ITSELF takes THE BIG LEBOWSKI one step further. Where the Dude (Jeff Bridges) was a laid-back, California Dreamin', reluctant detective, here Don Johnston (Murray) is so loathe to act that he lets his neighbor, Winston (Wright), not only do most of the sleuthing but also provide him with an itinerary along with the necessary plane tickets, hotel accomodations and rental cars. Johnston complains, "Couldn't you have rented me, like a Porsche or some car that I might really drive. I'm a stalker in a Taurus!"

Uh uh. He's Don Juan as a bump on a log. Don Wan with no outward manifestations of desire. Does he really want anything? Should he? Should we?

There are but 2 instances when he is moved to actually do something. Both involve flight.
  A)Alone with a teen-aged girl named Lolita, with provocation, he leaves in a panic.
  B)A young man runs away from him, with provocation, and Johnston gives chase.
  That's it.
  His one act of forward motion driven by genuine desire is rewarded with... bewilderment.

Most of the film is just talk and transportation. Inertia is such an operating force here that many of the more resonant scenes are just Johnston on a bus, Johnston on a plane, and Johnston driving. These, along with scenes straight out of STRANGER THAN PARADISE of planes taking off and planes landing, are eerily more interesting than they have any right to be. At one point Winston assures Johnston, "Look, don't worry. We're still going to solve this mystery." Weirdly compelled to agree or disagree, we forgive such irony.

Jarmusch even preempts his critics when Johnston says, "I think this whole thing is a farce, a fiasco." Take that Mr. Spielberg and your minions!