This film is excellent, but obvious, and perhaps that's by design.
What Clint Eastwood has done in "Blood Work" is to create a detective-thriller that is more about the detective than it is about the crime.  That is not a new twist, and neither is the fact that the criminal he is investigating is targeting him specifically for special attention.  What Eastwood does here to make this a worthy film is to take a conventional, derivative story and tell it with such a commitment to avoiding sentimentality or egotism that the "same old same old" kind of movie becomes entertaining again.  On top of that, Eastwood uses both realism and irony with such deft craftmanship; it is not an exaggeration to say that I truly appreciate how secure I feel when I'm watching one of his stories unfold.  I know I'm in good hands, and I can't wait to see what's coming next. 
The hero is vulnerable.  Extraordinarily so.  In fact, the very nature of his weakness is the foundation upon which the entire structure of the plot is built.  It is a heavy-handed notion to present to an audience, but this film is not the first time someone has tried to tell a story with a premise that is symbolic to the point of absurdity.  I think, perhaps, that Mr. Eastwood knew exactly what he was doing, though, because he takes this 500 pound gorilla and just lets it be a gorilla.  
He explores his subject, and he lets it be what it's got to be, and he doesn't dress it up.  That's where the ego-less nature of Eastwood's directing and acting are really appreciated.  The story is first.  The truth of that character, in that situation, comes first.  There is no hero's hero in the sense that traditional Hollywood likes for the cop-thriller.  Instead, the audience gets treated to a pretty thorough exploration of the Eastwood persona that's emerged in his later films.  Those films include "Unforgiven", "In the Line of Fire", "True Crime", "Absolute Power", and even "The Bridges of Madison County"--where he's become the guy who's too old, too sick, too snake-bitten, or too late, who can't possibly beat the odds that are against him unless he just stays true to himself, and he somehow does and wins the day, as well as redemption.  
This film is a case study of that type of Eastwood character, and I think in years to come that this will be a touchstone work in his oeuvre, in terms of the way Eastwood always seems to be poking at his own persona.  I only have two criticisms of the film, but they combine to knock this down to four stars instead of five.  
First, the casting is flawed.  Jeff Daniels did his best and I can live with that, but I would rather have seen a better actor play the goofball role, rather than see an actor known for goofball roles simply pushing himself a little farther.  There are a lot of actors out there who could have pulled off that part a lot better.  Case in point: Wanda De Jesus was a fantastic pick for the part of Graciella.  A lot of other, better-known actresses could have come in and cakewalked the part of a strong, 
suffering woman on a mission; but it was wonderful to see (A) an excellent, unknown actress get the job wonderfully done, and (B) the pleasant surprise of seeing a non-white actress be the one who delivers such a powerful performance.  Conversely, I also question the casting of Paul Rodriguez here, based on the same objections I have with Jeff Daniels' casting; why not go for someone who doesn't look like he's just delivering a pparody of his past roles?
My second criticism is the failure of the film to answer a few key questions with any kind of clarity.  Of course, that can't be discussed in this review, but suffice it to say that there are a couple key plot points that get glossed over in crucial moments, and it's annoying because it almost comes off like Eastwood simply forgot to tie them up (he could have, quite
easily).  He's not sloppy like that very often.
Incidentally, I'd like to note that Angelica Huston fans will be, perhaps, ambivalent about her casting in this film.  Her acting, of course, is first-rate; I particularly enjoyed her the most out of all the fine 
people who worked in this project, but for her fans, this will be a character that she hasn't normally done.  
Overall, I highly recommend this film for Eastwood fans and for fans of investigative thrillers.  Always there and rarely explained for the audience are the usual realistic touches that saturate Eastwood's films.  To provide examples of this is to spoil the fun of watching it, though, so just take my word for it!  Get this DVD and immerse yourself in some excellent, confident storytelling.