This video is junk. Every b and c documentary covers the watts riots and the eventual lack of leadership leading up to the 2 gangs. It explains nothing of how it started or why it started. It actually covers very little of the 2 gangs themselves. I myself am a former blood gang member out of Las Vegas, Nevada. As I know it, the crips started out of a need to belong to something and a need for a fatherly figure. As the gladiators, slausons, and the buisiness before them they fought other gangs with their fists. through time the the fights began to get worse with bats, pipes, and knives being used. The crips gang became the largest and most dominant gang at the time. The smaller gangs that were being "picked on" decided enough was enough. A meeting of 5 different gangs took place (the brimms, the compton boys, and the avenues are the only 3 i know). In this meeting the gangs decided to start an alliance. Now at the time most of the gangs wore blue due to everybody wanting to be like the crips. So this new alliance decided to change their color to red and come up with a name, Pirus/bloods. The name Piru is a street in Compton, California and the name blood because of the family concept such as blood brothers. That as far as I know is where the bloods came from. The idea was for the bloods to protect them and the others in their neighborhoods from the crips. Somewhere some how someone was killed by one side and the other side took revenge by killing one from the other side. This is why it has been so bloody over the years. When someone kills your bestfriend or ur family member, the first thought that comes to your mind is revenge. The hate for eachother runs so deep over these deaths that getting these two gangs to stop is nearly impossible. this war is has as much emotion as any relugous ar cultural war has. Its also very addicting a young man cause yes you do feel extremely powerful, almost like a god to hold a gun in your hand and know that you have the power to take life and to allow it to live. People who look at you in fear cause they know what you are or may be makes you feel even more powerful, here is this grown man looking terrified of me and im only a teen. The sad thing is if you dont look at them with fear they will want to put that fear into you, Fear is respect and respect is the only thing that matters on the streets. I have been out of the gang for 4 years now and 7 years in the gang. Even to this day when I see somone wearing blue or recognize them as a crip member i catch myself wanting to harm them. I have lost to many friends to ever forget about who i once was or who i once fought.