On any list of proposed pairings for a romantic comedy, would you expect to see Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson? No, probably not. But <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0015OKWKS">Last Chance Harvey</a> puts these troupers together in London and the results are a bit surprising. The story: New York jingle-writer Harvey Shine (Hoffman) is on his last legs in a job that's passing him by, and he tears himself away from the daily crisis to attend his daughter's wedding in London. Long divorced, Harvey hasn't been close to his daughter and he's very much on the outside among the wedding party. His daughter has asked her step-father (James Brolin) to give her away. Harvey bags the reception, misses a plane home, gets fired over the phone, and takes refuge in a pub.

Meanwhile Kate Walker (Thompson) is cruising toward spinsterhood, at her quirky mother's beck and call; she has bagged a bad blind date and is--oh, can you guess?--taking refuge in the same pub. Overture, rebuff, repeat.

These two lonely souls somehow, in spite of a script full of lame repartee, get together and tell their stories. Kate is horrified that Harvey is missing his daughter's reception and insists that he attend. He tows her along. Harvey, although seated at the children's table, rises to the occasion and all is happy.

Well, it's not quite that simple, but nearly. The lead actors give their usual excellent performances but the romantic tension just isn't there. Writer/director Joel Hopkins delivers a movie that's pleasant enough but not memorable, except for the recurring scenes in which Kate's mother spies on her new neighbor of whom she is highly suspicious. Don't leave before the credits roll, or you will miss the final scene in this play-within-a-play.

This was not a terrible way to spend ninety minutes on an airplane, but it's not a movie I'd yearn to see again; just a little too wordy and lacking in plausibility. But I WOULD like to watch the wedding scene one more time, to find out if my brain at sea level would once again channel "The Graduate" while watching Dustin Hoffman at his daughter's wedding.

Linda Bulger, 2009