In the new comedy Shallow Hal, ridiculous, sometimes funny jokes are mostly alleviated by Gwyneth Paltrow's great performance in the heart-filled comedy.
  The story focuses on the life of a shallow man named Hal, played by Jack Black (High Fidelity). He spends his nights with his shallow buddy Mauricio (Jason Alexander), hanging out in dance clubs, hitting on beautiful women completely out their league. Hal leads a simple, arrogant, and particularly useless life. From the beginning of the film, we remember the brief scene that shows Hal as a child, in a hospital, talking to his dying father, who is heavily sedated with pain killers. His father gives him some pretty atrocious advice for picking out women, saying "marrying for love got him in trouble..." Unaware of his father's "morphine trip," he is somewhat hypnotized after he's traumatized from his father's later passing. As fate would have it, when Hal is all grown up he gets trapped in an elevator with self-guru Tony Robbins, who gives Hal an amazing gift: to see the inner beauty of people. Since the death of Hal's father, he's been choosing women to date solely based on their appearance, and only their appearance. Hal is "dehypnotized," as Tony calls it, to see the people (especially women) how they really are, literally. When Hal meets Rosemary (played by Paltrow, sometimes in a fat-suit), an obese but amazing woman with generous and friendly qualities, though her hurt has been covered up. Thanks to Hal's meeting with Tony Robbins, he sees Rosemary as Paltrow's sexy, slender and fit self, though he is the only one who can see her like this. As Hal's perception is completely messed up, we are taken through some mildly offensive and frivolous jokes that involve Hal being the only person who cannot see that Rosemary's overweight. When Hal compliments her, unaware of his "gift," she can only take his comments as immature or sarcastic. Paltrow's excellence doesn't make her differentiate between "thin Rosemary" and "overweight Rosemary," which really helps in giving people the message they need to receive.
  Directed by the Farrelly Brothers (There's Something About Mary), the film really does have a big-hearted sensitive side that can clearly be seen if you look at the moral of the story. Shallow Hal is a combination of silly gags and difficult situations. Besides some of the comedy, the film takes us through some hard situations that involve hurtful comments and embarrassing situations when one is different. Rosemary states "I know what I am and I know what I'm not," and gets offended when Hal calls her beautiful. Up to the end, the overall film is a beauty that originally reflects the message of true love. Black and Paltrow work well together, and the film is funny, but not because of some brief "fat jokes." It's these jokes that are only a shallow spot in a deep lake.