This movie was an agreeable way to blow 90 minutes. Perhaps its greatest virtue is it encourages one to read or watch Pride and Prejudice (again).
Please note: I have not read the book, Bridget Jones's Diary.
Hugh Grant, as Daniel Cleaver, or Wickham-lite, provides the best comedy. Charmingly sleazy. I liked how he referred to Bridget Jones by her last name, so I'm going to have emulate him in this review. In my opinion he was under-used. Even when he gets his come-uppence in the office, with Jones making a crack and everyone ha-ha-ing at the boss, in his eyes you can see a witty report but on film he says nothing. A lost opportunity.
Colin Frith is excellent of course. I find it difficult to describe his acting with his eyes when he is looking at the woman he loves. They show, at the very least, that he needs and wants her while at the same time exhibiting an uncertain pain and a questioning doubt of her ability to love him. A very similar look was used by him in A&Es Pride and Prejudice, incidentally, an excellent film.
Renee Zwelleger was alright. She had some loopy charm (I really liked her frizzed-out 1980s coiffure), but very little depth--which didn't seem to be her fault, rather the script's. She looked great, its hard for me to believe so much fuss was made about the weight she put on.
Several things were irritating about this film. In my opinion, having old people talk about their sex lives in order for the protagonist to show exasperated disgust and get a cheap laugh from the audience is lousy, desperate comedy. And several of the jokes seemed really dumbed down, like the audience couldn't figure out the humor without an arrow draw above it: for example, it kills the humor to have the mother introducing, hanging around, and then pointedly leaving Jones and D'Arcey alone together.
The blaring love songs I can tolerate. However, the several slow-motions were ridiculous and unitentionally funny. It also seemed strange to me that the diary, in the movie anyway, is not very important at all, merely an afterthought. Only at the end does it provide a curve for the lovers to overcome.