I loved this movie! I'm a Latifah fan and have always loved her work; whether it's her acting, singing or her rapping! She brings her likable, humble,motherly, but sassy attitude to whatever set she's on! Beauty Shop is just a spinoff of Barber shop, true! But I actually liked Beauty Shop better than any of the Barber Shop films! I was glad to see Cheryl Underwood picked up for the movie, because I like Cheryl, but I don't think she gets the props she deserves in Hollywood. She not the best comedienne, but she is one of the better ones of the women. I was glad to see Della Reese "rise from the dead" to make a guest appearance! I would've liked to see her appearance bring more meaning to the film though, she was underused for the movie if you ask me! I was also glad to see comedienne Lara Hays, her part was small, but very appreciative for me on the movie. She fit right in with the cast.

I feel that Lisa Raye's diva days are over, and so has been her 15 minutes of fame! Yes she's a pretty girl, but since she is still bent on trying to make the 15 minutes stretch; Lisa Raye should've been used as a stylist instead of a patron to the shop. Or she could have been used in place of Latifah and let Latifah be a stylist. Latifah would've owned her role either way! Then Kimora could've been used as maybe Lisa Raye's friend who is trying to keep her spirits up amidst all the drama surrounding the shop. I don't know if her and Djimon's chemistry would've been as good as Latifah's and his, but at least it would've been different.

Djimon's performance was no less than outstanding, and sexy as he looked throughout the film, it made me want to go hook up with a delicious African hunk like himself! he and Latifah had great chemistry for this movie and it's just too bad she's a lesbian, cause there definitely looked like potential was there! She's such a pretty lady any way! I liked Alicia Silverstone too, and I hope she could make a comeback after this movie!

Andie MacDowell was good too, and she fit right in with the rest of the cast!
And lastly, good ol' Kevin Bacon was spectacular! For the longest, I didn't even realize that's who it was! He played Jorge's character to the hilt! I liked to see in more non traditional roles! He has the talent!

Overall, this is a female version of Barberhop, but it's still worth seeing and owning!