Asia Argento's adapation of super-fraud JT Leroy's book is a decent attempt yet it fails on so many levels.  While I thought Argento did a decent job as a director, I felt that the script and the acting was sub-par at best.  The pacing was somewhat weak and over all, the film felt somewhat disjointed and unrealistic.

The movie chronicles Jeremiah's descent into his mother's hellish lifestyle - rife with drugs, prostitution and abusive boyfriends.  Argento can act like a wickedly good skank - playing Sara as a cross between a tore up Courtney Love and crazy Baby Jane.  She was about the only decent actor in this film.  The child actors walk through the film in a slack jawed daze - while this may be an attempt to show them 'numbed' by the abuse they are coping with, I felt it made them uninteresting as characters.  I never got the feeling that we were able to 'feel' what Jeremiah was dealing with.  We get very little background info on Jeremiah - all we are to gather from the beginning is that Sara somehow gets him back from his cushy and loving foster care and then turns into a psycho as soon as the social workers are gone.  She instantly leaves her apartment and heads on the road, Jeremiah in tow.  We follow them on a zig zag course of drugs, drink and lots and lots of sex and abuse.  The squeamish will find some scenes disturbing - such as Jeremiah's rape by an angry abandoned boyfriend or the beating at the hands of another while Sara eggs the boyfriend on.

Soon, Jeremiah is 'rescued' briefly and stays with Sara's fundamentalist parents - with Peter Fonda in the role as the dad.  This whole set up was so phony and unrealistic - it bordered on lame.  The brother, the bath scene, Jeremiah singing the Sex Pistols.........blech. I won't bore you with the details except to say that this was probably the worst and most unbelievable part of the film.

Other celebrities make cameos here as well - Winona Ryder playing a neurotic therapist who tells Jeremiah that he will lose his priveleges if he doesn't say "it wasn't my fault".  This just seemed....well, wrong.  What therapist would threaten a child who has just been traumatized?  Marilyn Manson shows up as a creepy boyfriend who ends up being "seduced" by Jeremiah in his mother's nightie.....again, not great acting, didn't feel believable.

Argento throws in a few fantasy scenes but ultimately nothing seems to tie in together - or work in a convincing manner.  While I didn't feel that this was the worst movie I have ever seen, I certainly felt it lacked a lot.  That being said, Argento has so much potential as a director and actress - she was the only saving grace and interesting character in the film.  I found myself caring less about the child and hoping that she would find redemption and help instead.