When the average person thinks of famous silent movie stars, Buster Keaton takes an undeserved backseat to Charlie Chaplin.  Neither was better than the other, which is why they were both so popular.  
Chaplin's movies had better stories with more original plot points, and they were able to get more emotions out of us.  Chaplin could make us cry as well as laugh.
Keaton, however, had more comic invention.  His movies were funnier, because he had better ideas of how to get an full laugh out of an audience.
Never is this more evident than in the DVD release of Keaton's greatest film, "The General".  Watching the film for the first time, I noticed something unusual about the film.  The entire film took place on a train.  This is something that Chaplin would not do.  He would have left the train 30 minutes into it.  I think that the reason he would have left the train would be because he would have run out of ideas, whereas Keaton did not.
"The General" takes place during the Civil War, and Keaton plays a train engineer who is rejected from the Enlistment Office because of the necessity of his job.  He is discouraged and his girlfriend will no longer talk to him.
Then, Union spies take his train and the girl, two things that are described in the film as "the loves in his life".  He goes out to set things straight...and ends up helping the war effort in the process.
This film features the perfect example of the attraction to the silent comedy.  We get the scrawny underdog, wanting to help but rejected every step of the way.  Suddenly, he is thrown into a situation that under any other circumstances would be out of his league, and pulls through with flying colors.  This is a dream fulfilled.
And all the while, Keaton handles the subject matter with humor that is original, inventive, tasteful, and laugh-out-loud funny.  His deadpan reactions hold up better over time than Chaplin's overdone expressions.
The DVD also has some extra treats.  Two shorts are included.  One is "The Playhouse", which contains, if nothing else, an opening sequence that is a marvel of optical camerawork, as Keaton plays numerous characters at once, many of them interacting with each other (compare this to "The Parent Trap" and you'll see how revolutionary Keaton was).
The second is "Cops", and the film's ending is one long, fantasic chase scene.  Even to this day, ideas are borrowed from this hilarious short.
If your experience with silent comedies consists only of watching characters called "The Tramp", and you want to be a Keaton fan, the DVD of "The General" is the perfect place to start.