I bought this DVD while shopping for odds and ends at a retailer. It was cheaper than I had seen it before and since I was back and forth as to get it or not, I decided to take the plunge. It is by far one of the best fitness DVD buys I have made, ever!!

This DVD has a lot of both positive and negative reviews and I have for a while been curious about this, but wasn't sure it would be for me. I have been able to work my way back up to a high intermediate fitness level after time of from surgery and illness, and I found that I actually went faster than the instructor!! Kelsie is a great lead in this DVD, my second experience with her. My first was with the Firm Wave, and I DID NOT click with her for that workout. So since I have been hesitant to purchase DVDs with her as the lead. After doing this DVD, I am now searching for her DVDs. This workout is approx 60 minutes in length and it moves you quickly throughout the DVD, never slowing down or breaking the choreography down.

You use dumbbells in this DVD but I would classify this as a Cardio Workout. She doesn't heavy up and uses only 1 set, sometimes using both in one hand for bicep or back work. Since the "toning" segments are short and quick, there isn't much rep work to consider this a decent strength workout. It does though allow you to hit both aerobic and anaerbic heart rate zones and the calorie burn is high. Since I have only done this DVD once (I've only had it for 6 days) I used 3 lbs dumbbells. This would be the perfect DVD to use weighted gloves and a belt if you have access to those. Because she moves so quickly, it is highly recommended that you have experience with the Firm workouts, mainly the Pinks as the choreography is called out by term name and there is no breakdown, only adding to it. She keeps you moving with no time so slow down. Although in between cycles/segments (every 5+ minutes) you march in place for 10-15 seconds to catch the next song's beat. A perfect amount of time for water breaks and I took those often!! I have noticed that a common complaint is that she is off of the beat and that she moves too quickly. I personally didn't notice the music all that much bc I was working so hard, I tend to tune music out once I am working at a certain intensity level. I also noticed that I was ahead of her by 1-2 beats in choreography!! She was moving fast, but apparently, I can and did move faster...often! Let's keep in mind here that I am a high intermediate, this DVD is rated for Intermediates by Fitness Forums. Again, knowing the Firm Terminology will go a long way and make the "too fast" pace a lot more doable on the first go round.

Dear Kelsie does a lot of high impact modifications, those with knee or back issues take notice to that. I have both. I wear a knee brace and was able to do all the moves but 1 or 2 comfortably with my knees. She does this movement that goes from a lunge into a push up, back into a lunge, then standing. That was the move my knee had problems with. I modified to a range of motion that was better for me, but it was still a little tricky, especially with a brace as it limits range of motion. There are also a couple of multi-muscle/4 limbs moves that incorporate balance (usually standing on one leg and doing a leg lift with the opposite and arm work). These were the ones that my lower back had trouble with. I think that for the average person, someone who doesn't have a history with lower back issues would be just fine. I noticed that I was slacking in the "ab tightening" form on these too bc I was concentrating on doing so many other things at the same time. If your core is strong and/or you can keep the focus on keeping your core tight, it'll be fine. BUYER BEWARE: If you DO NOT like lunges, do not purchase this DVD; she does them often!

I absolutely love the choreography in this one. It has a little bit of everything from mambos, to kickboxing, to traditional-retro style floor work. The variety kept me very intrigued and intuned to this DVD. The abs section at the end is a little tougher than some of the other pinks and for me, I had to follow the beginner and even do a less intense version than the beginner modifier. I like I said, have low back issues so Ab work is a "must" for me, but it can be a difficult task. She does a lot of movements that are working the upper and lower abs at the same time; moving the legs in/out or up/down. I found that If I kept my uppers engaged the entire time, the lower ab movements weren't as hard on my back. I still have to work up to the full range and full rep count, but it gives me something to strive for. I can't say enough how much I really loved this workout!! I even told my husband "thank you" at least a dozen times bc it is just so much fun! Kelsie is a great lead and her instruction/cueing is almost perfect. The pace is quick, lets not be fooled about that, but it is so doable. That is IF you are familiar with the Firm Pinks. Kelsie tends to be a "faster" lead from what I can tell, but this DVD is meant to challenge you. I was able to pick up the choreography the first time through, and most ppl should be able to by the 2nd or 3rd. Using 3s and 5s would make this a Cardio Knockout and high calorie burner. I lift at the gym so I don't need the strength work via DVD. This is one that you can easily grow with, upping the weights as you get stronger, adding a weight belt or gloves, and doing all high impact-there's a lot of those modification for sure!

I'd buy this DVD all over again in a heart beat no questions asked. As far as Calorie Burn, I burned over 500 and I know it'll be even higher next time. I had to stop a few times for unrelated issues, brining my heart rate down. I use a Polar F6 for those that are curious about Heart rate monitors.