If you vote "not helpful" on this particular review, please tell me why. That's only fair because it is a subject of such importance to America. If you think Moore exaggerated, then please read my own horror stories below.

No one should oppose National Health Insurance without first seeing Michael Moore's unrelenting line of horror stories about American health care--a mere selection of 25,000 stories.

But I will not repeat Moore's horror stories. I'll give you some of my own. A doctor tried to talk me into a hernia operation. Coincidentally, I saw another doctor a week later. He checked me and said that I didn't have a hernia and that I should never go back to that doctor. Hello, in other words, I was going to pay for that doctor's swimming pool!

In the US the incentive for doctors is to perform more and more operations, not to keep people well (as in other countries).

My nephew went to see a find doctor at a major medical center, but the doctor refused to diagnose or treat my nephew. Actually, he was doing my nephew a favor because if he had tested him or treated him, he would not have been able to get long-term care insurance. He went out and got the insurance, and had to wait a year to go back to see the doctor! The waiting period!

I had to wait 90 days to get coverage with a new job. In the meantime, I was coughing all over my students.

Let us all agree to this American creed: No American should lose their home or life savings simply because they get sick. How can anyone disagree with that?

The American middle class had better wake up. Regardless of whether you have health insurance or not, you are only one or two diseases away from loosing our life savings and homes. National health insurance is the only answer, taking the best from the other countries that have it (and have a longer life expectancies--we rank 42).

Those who oppose national health insurance should do the honorable thing and turn down Medicare as a matter of principle. American cancer survival rates are higher, but note the following:

In response to an email that I sent, the Nation Cancer Institute said that "55.8 percent of all cancer cases are diagnosed in people 65 years and older." So Medicare has a big input in those survival rates. Probably even a greater impact in hip replacements. So the argument that government health insurance results in poor quality care is bogus.

Now quick, would you want to go to the Mayo Clinic, John Hopkins Medical Center, or a major VA hospital? ANSWER: THE VA PERFORMS BETTING IN ALMOST ALL AREAS. My two cousins love it.

Don't believe the lies told about Canada. Sara Robinson, who has duel Canadian-American citizenship, refuted common myths told about Canadian health care in "Ten Myths about the Canadian Health Care System" (see internet).

One of those great myths is that Canada's health-care system is "socialized medicine." False: In socialized medical systems, the doctors work directly for the state. In Canada (and many other countries with universal care), doctors run their own private practices, just like they do in the US. The only difference is that every doctor deals with one insurer, instead of 150.

The percentage of Canadians who'd consider giving up their beloved system consistently languishes in the single digits. A few years ago, a TV show asked Canadians to name the Greatest Canadian in history; and in a broad national consensus, they gave the honor to Tommy Douglas, the Saskatchewan premier who is considered the father of the country's health care system.

It is both true and false that there are longer waits. It all depends where you live. For the vast majority of Canadians, it is not true, but true for a few.

It is false that Canadians don't get to choose theirs own doctor.
Somebody, somewhere, is getting paid a lot of money to make this kind of stuff up. A bogus falsehood.

Canadian drugs are not the same. This is more preposterous bogosity.
They are exactly the same drugs, made by the same pharmaceutical companies, often in the same factories. The Canadian drug distribution system, however, has much tighter oversight; and pharmacies and pharmacists are more closely regulated. If there is a difference in Canadian drugs at all, they're actually likely to be safer.

It is false that publicly-funded programs will inevitably lead to rationed health care, particularly for the elderly. Sara Robinson calls this myth "False and bogglingly so." "The papers would have a field day if there was the barest hint that this might be true."

Basic morality 101: No person should loose their home or life savings because they are sick.

One of my readers is from Germany, and she worked at a private clinic in England. Their customers were wealthy Arabs, who could have come to the USA, but chose England. Why would they choose a so-called "socialist country"? Because England does not have socialized medicine--there are private hospitals, private doctors, and private insurance.

You cannot argue with life spans in countries with universal coverage. Here they are (overall, male and female--females live longer). I am looking only at major countries. There is something wrong when other capitalist countries are better off than our wealthy country.

Major Countries by Lifespan (all have universal health care). Except for communist Cuba, all these countries are ranked in the world's top 15 capitalistic economies.

Japan: 82.6
Switzerland: 81.7 (at the top of the economic competitive list)
Australia: 81.2
Spain: 80.9 (booming capitalist economy and universal coverage)
Sweden: 80.9 (leader in green energy)
Israel: 80.7 (major private investor in US economy)
France (metropolitan): 80.7 (the doctors make house calls)
Canada: 80.7
Italy: 80.5
New Zealand: 80.2
Norway: 80.2
United Kingdom: 79.4 (they must be doing something right. About tenth in world economic competitiveness)
Germany: 79.4
Ireland: 78.9 (booming private economy with universal coverage)
Cuba: 78.3 (Lacking the wealth to buy our medical marvels, Cuba still beats the US!)
United States: 78.2 (Shame on us.)