I've watched the Founding Fathers DVD and now this, The Founding Brothers DVD as part of the Founding of America Mega set. I'll watch the rest, but the primary opinion that I can give you is that I was thoroughly disgusted!

I agree with other reviews that I see here in saying that this is EXTREMELY biased towards the Federalists and against the Republicans, who by the way are not clarified as being the Democratic Republicans, not the modern day Republicans although limited government principles are common to both and the modern party was created in 1854 to go back to the principles written in the Declaration of Independence and live by "All men are created equal", which IS Jefferson. It is technically a different organization. I believe that if you 1. know a fair amount of founding era history 2. are a Libertarian, Republican or Constitution party member ( I mention these because the common, limited government principles that each hold are clearly what is being attacked through a side door here. ) and/or 3. are a legitimate historian of any political persuasion, you will be stunned at the audacity of this slanted presentation disguised as a historical education product!

 They also don't even mention the fact that the Federalists took the use of the name from their political opposition (people like Patrick Henry and George Mason) to defeat them, but Jefferson is hammered and hammered for every use of politics. I can tell you this. Because I already know much of this history, I can clearly see how slanted these History Channel presentations are. Luckily, I only spent about 19 bucks for the box set, but that's the LAST money the History Channel will get from me. I will never again view them as a credible source of history. Some of the occasionally inserted "experts" did have some credible input, but not all and most of both founding productions show like structured Hit pieces on Jefferson, glorification of the Federalists and almost obscene glorification of Hamilton. This programming puts great effort into painting Jefferson as a political, slave holding hack who unjustifiably accused Hamilton and the Federalists of being advocates of un-necessarily large government with too much power while amazingly skimming over Washington's slaves and totally ignoring Hamilton's five hour speech at the Constitutional Convention that called for a strong national (not federal) government like England's MONARCHY at the time! Jefferson is ripped apart through 4 DVDs (the founding Fathers discs AND the Founding Brothers discs) and all federalists questionable actions are explained with sympathy or not mentioned at all! There isn't even a mention of the slave "trade" ending while Jefferson was President (only to be expanded by others later, which is why people who believed that all men are created equal started the Republican party to unite against slavery) People, there are FAR better sources of history than History Channel presentations, no matter how nicely these are packaged. I view these as corrupt educational material.

The American Classic series books are a much better place to start if this is new to you. (The Real Thomas Jefferson (American Classic Series)The Real George Washington (American Classic Series)The Real Benjamin Franklin(American Classic Series). The John Adams HBO series is credible too, (including the "facts are stubborn things" feature on the discs) and the "Politically incorrect guide to" books have great info too. Also check out "A Patriot's History of the United States" by Larry Schweikart and Michael Allen. They are all available here on amazon. The bottom line is that you need to read as much of the founders actual words as possible to get the greater picture.