I am not a fan of this series in any format, by any means. I finally caved in after a friend kept badgering me about seeing this film. The movie as a whole was better than the first film, if only marginally. The soundtrack blended into one big, boring mess and did nothing to accentuate the "feeling" of the moment. I laughed in inappropriate places -- especially in the beginning, when Bella was whining about being old at 18, and at the "birthday party turned bloodbath".

Kristen Stewart proved once again that she can't act her way out of a paper bag. She has two facial expressions: blank and mopey. Her voice was monotone, and all through the film I could only think of the one or two interviews I've seen of her, which also left me with the impression that there isn't a whole lot going on upstairs, for her or Bella. Robert Pattinson was only mildly less creepy and stalker-ish than he was in the first film. I laughed when Edward made comments about his age and Bella said that it was gross and creepy for him to be dating her. Yeah, chick, you got it. I think knowing that he doesn't really like playing Edward is a redeeming point in his favor.

Surprisingly, I found the character of Jacob to be the most realistic and appealing. No, ladies, it's not just the abs (although I'm not complaining there), although the constant shirtlessness rendered him more beefcake than leading man. If they could have kept his shirt on more, it would have given the character an opportunity to be more than Bella's substitute arm candy. Despite these limitations, Lautner manages to convey all the awkwardness of a 16-year-old with his first crush, and you can tell that Jacob genuinely likes Bella, despite the fact that she's just using him. I felt sorry for him when Bella rejected him completely in favor of Edward. Yep, dude, she kept on saying how much she needs you and how you're her best friend, but she'll drop you completely for sparkly boy. His long wig was better this time, and I wish they would've kept his hair long rather than chopping it off.

Jasper almost seemed like something other than a tree or piece of furniture, but the birthday party scene was just ridiculous. As usual, the other Cullens (except for Alice) mainly wandered around in the background, contributing little or nothing to the "plot".

The Volturi brought a point of mild interest. Michael Sheen (who portrayed Robbie Ross in "Wilde") did a great job as the Volturi leader Aro. You could tell that the character had a few screws loose, which actually made him a bit scary. Dakota Fanning hardly said a dozen words, but she was a creepy little thing with those red eyes. The blonde male in the Volturi who may have said a line or two at some point -- if he did, I didn't notice -- had the worst wig in the film, and that is saying something.

Charlie. I really felt for Bella's long-suffering dad. He searched all over for her when her pathetic self got lost in the woods and just laid down and cried, and he had to put up with her moping for months and sleep on the couch so he could go upstairs every night and wake her when she had her "creepy stalker Edward withdrawals". Personally, at that point I would've thought my kid was on drugs and would've sent her to rehab.

Finally, the constant attempt to compare these two nitwits with the star-crossed lovers in "Romeo and Juliet" was just sad. There is no comparison between the drivel that is Twilight and a tragedy that has endured centuries as a beloved play. For those who would criticize me and ask why I watched it if I dislike it so much, I'll say this: "Twilight" is like a car wreck. It's horrible and hideous, but you can't look away. I'm actually looking forward to seeing how bad the next two films will be.

I haven't bothered to look at the Special Features, since I don't care enough to want to know any "behind the scenes" secrets, but other folks say they're lame, so I won't waste my time.