Lets be honest here! What Fox wants you to believe is utter rubbish! Having been involved in film to video restoration as a telecine colorist I think I know a little bit about the process.

The one thing that Fox is right about is that many negs, ip's and print negs were stored impropperly. Eastman stock developed vinigar syndrome, faded and shrunk. Becoming unusable. The studio's woke up to the fact and started to store  their precious titles in more climate friendly vaults and salt mines. Yup...salt mines.

I have seen several prints, (not negs) in theatres and in private collections. Some have faded and lost color, (turning pink) while others are basicly as beautiful as they day they were struck.

If Fox wnted to do an "HONEST" transfer of a TODD-AO print or neg, it could have used numerous sources to obtain, borrow or copy elements from existing materials other than a badly damaged IP. IP's (inter Posatives) that some studios will xfer from are well known to have limited range and depth for video xfers than a neg or a print-neg.  Fox was being lazy and decided for some unknown reason to use most likely the only complete, or close at hand elements they had rather than do some research and find propper materials to xfer from!

The story abotu Oklahoma! being soft is that....a story. All the prints and footage and frames from TODD-AO prints are anything but soft. The efinition is the Oklahoma! prints is truely breath taking.

Fox would have been better to have left some of the film damage in and retain the sharpness of the TODD-AO versions. Fox woudl have been bette to have used the available technology and use the pre-existing 4x3 letterbox TODD-AO version and line doubled it to make it full screen.

You would be amazed aas to the amount of color that can be pulled out of a faded print using sate of the art equipment like a daVinci color corrector. Would the color be perfect? No, but it would be sharp and enjoyable. Then they could have gone into digital color restoration and boosted it up even more.

If Fox have have had the backbone to have said "hey we made a mistake" I woudl respect that and say well atlet they know they messed up. But to blaitantly lie and try to defent themselves is not only an insult to this film, it's producers, cast and crew, it's fans and to those of us who do work in the area of film xfer!

Fox, I challenge you to prove this is the only possible xfer that you can do! And you will be proved wrong!