The film version of what I consider Rodgers and Hammerstein's best stage production, "Carousel," has generally been dismissed by critics and those familiar with the stage show as a poor representation of the  stage version.  To some degree, that is true.  Yes, the screenplay does  "soften" it by giving away a major plot point at the beginning of  the movie, so it would be easier to take.  (I won't say more, in case you  haven't seen it)  And some of the score was deleted from the final print,  which hurts it in the beginning.  On stage, "If I Loved You" is  dialogue with musical interludes leading up to the song itself.  It is a  beautiful scene, as the music is used to express emotions the characters  can not speak, to thrilling effect.  But on film, it's just dialogue  leading up to the (shortened) song, which cuts away some of the power and  impact.  The spell cast on stage is not to be found here, though Gordon  McRae and Shirley Jones sing well.  The deleted "You're a Queer One,  Julie Jordan" is also missed.
But after the dissapointing beginning,  "along come" the spirited rendition of "June Is Bustin' Out  All Over" by the cast.  From then on, the film is much more engaging  and better all around.  McRae and Jones, while not really up to par  dramatically, are capable of emoting enough and remain vocally stellar,  which is what we paid for, anyway, (though it shouldn't have been that  way).  McRae's "Soliloquy" is a true tour de force, and his  reprise of "If I Loved You" is truly poigniant. Jones'  "What's the Use of Won'drin" is beautiful and touching.  The rest  of the cast is fine, too, and certain of the later scenes retain the power  of the stage version and are just as touching.  Unfortunatly, I haven't  seen this in widescreen or on the big screen, so I can't vouch for the  much-lauded visual scope of Boothbay Harbor, Maine,  but I'm sure it's  spectacular.  (Nope, it's not all that exciting in pan-and-scan)
This is  worth seeing, especially, I'm sure, in widescreen, but what you really  should do is get the film's soundtrack, which restores the deleted songs  and many of the deleted verses of other songs to better effect, and a  decent cast recording of the stage version, and see a good stage production  in your area.  Only then will you truly experience the beauty and power of  this magnificent musical.