Did we really need this movie? Or, to be more specific, did we really need another hastily-done, poorly executed superhero movie? And if so, did we have to sacrifice the legendary Fantastic Four to make it? Why couldn't this have been a lame movie about Iron Man, or the Avengers or the Metal Men or the Doom Patrol? Why did they have to degrade the poor FF?

Hey, I'd normally be the first guy to champion an FF movie adaptation. I've always liked the characters, the stories were grand, the villains were excellent and there was some excellent dialogue already written. I'm even ok with minor changes and updates in most cases - I barely flinched when Spidey's web shooters were made 'organic'. But, as with so many horrific film adaptions of good books, if the film is going to throw away everything that made the book great, why even bother licensing the book in the first place? Starship Troopers showed us that Hollywood can make awful movies out of brilliant source material and The Incredibles showed us that brilliant concepts can be translated to the screen without the need for licensing. So what happened here?

The Fantastic Four were (along with Spider-Man) some of the first 'real' comic book characters ever. They were a family who bickered like real families, had their own human problems and were completely antithetical to the God-on-Earth superheroes prevalant at the time. They had well-established characters with rational motivations and consistent beliefs. Ben always hated his transformation and resented Reed's part in turning him into the Thing. Johnny was the hot-head who caused trouble, but always backed up his family in the end. Sue was the defender of the family who worked hard to keep the team together. Reed was the absent-minded professor whose genius could solve any problem - once you managed to make him pay attention. Doom was the tortured megalomaniac that hated Reed's success and intellect and was obsessed with destroying him. So what does Hollywood give us?

Doom is a successful yuppie, Reed is an ineffectual, indecisive nitwit, Ben VOLUNTEERS to become the Thing and Johnny couldn't care less about his family. I mean, come on. Doom's 'organic' armor and electrokinesis (huh?) I can grudgingly accept, but Ben's willingness to turn back into the Thing invalidates forty years of characterization.

Ok, so you don't care about any of this because you don't read comics. So what won't you like about this movie? Well, if you want action be prepared to be bored. Nothing of any significance happens until the last fifteen minutes. Oh, there's an action scene on a bridge, but it's pretty lame stuff and (despite the ridiculous, instant hero-worship) it's a problem CAUSED by the FF. Special effects? Johnny looks pretty good and Sue's force fields are ok, but neither gets more than a couple of minutes of screen time. Ben's costume is about as good as makeup is likely to get - awful, in other words. And as for poor Reed...well, why did they even bother making this movie if they weren't going to show super powers? Reed's abilities are always happening just slightly off-screen. We get a few very fast flashes of stretching and everything else is some sort of disembodied limb that looks fake. It's obvious that they never came up with a good way to create the stretching powers and just faked it with crappy CGI that would have made Harryhausen ashamed.

Oh, were you looking for plot? Sorry. You have 90% of the movie rehashing the origin stories, 5% wasted on a tedious Reed & Sue romance subplot and the final 5% involves a lame showdown with Doom who pretty much goes nuts and decides to kill the FF for no good reason. Where's Galactus when you need him?

If you get the chance to watch the last 15 minutes of this movie for free, enjoy. Otherwise, ignore this waste of time and watch The Incredibles instead.