The movie Kundun, originally released in 1997, seeks to convey the life story of the Dalai Lama, the spiritual and secular leader of Tibet.  Beginning with his selection to be the next Lama at the age of two, the movie follows his life as he embarks on the noble path that has been set before him.  Unfortunately, although the film is well made and visually stimulating, Kundun fails to be widely appealing due to its focus on Buddhist ritual, and its solemn, often somber, tone.
 Kundun, which means presence, is the name by which the fourteenth Dalai Lama is known.  In 1937, he was identified as being the reincarnation of the thirteenth Lama.  He was sent to a large monastery where he was raised and trained in Buddhist teaching and meditation techniques.  As he ages, he begins to follow and take interest in world events, specifically World War II and the impending threat the Chinese pose to his country and people.
 In 1950 China invaded Tibet, setting into motion a series of events that would dramatically influence the now fifteen year old Kundun's life.  Initially, he tried to peacefully co-exist with the occupiers, even agreeing to a Seventeen Point Agreement laid out by the Chinese.  This agreement would ultimately break down in 1959 however, due to the unwillingness of the Chinese to abide by the conditions.  A Tibetan uprising resulted but was defeated and the Dalai Lama was forced to flee to India to escape, setting up a government in exile in Dharamsala, India.
 To its credit, Kundun is visually breathtaking.  The exotic scenery and colorful dressings provide multiple layers of sensory input.  Coupled with a chilling musical score from Philip Glass and remarkable cinematography, the result is epic.  The direction - contributed by legend Martin Scorsese - is skillful, providing the overall vision throughout the movie that holds everything together during the chronological advance.
 Regrettably however, Kundun spends too much of its time preoccupied with Buddhist rituals.  The pacing of the story is interrupted time and again with long scenes of intense ritualistic practices.  There is a ritual for Kundun's enthronement, one for his welcoming, assorted scenes of chanting and drumming, and on and on; too many for the average person. While this may add a certain level of realism to the story, it diminishes its appeal to a wider audience, aiming squarely at adherents only.  Additionally, the overall tone of the film seems needlessly gloomy and heavy.  Coupled with the protracted scenes of ritual, and the potential market for this movie has been seriously reduced; as evidenced by its poor showing at the box office.
 As with any historical piece, a balance must be struck between accuracy and entertainment.  While Kundun does an excellent job with the accuracy part, it stumbles slightly in providing entertainment for mass consumption.