At the time this film came out, I was working for the NY Academy of Sciences on 63rd and 5th Avenue. The organization is housed in an elegant old townhouse that filmmakers often use for exterior shots. Well, imagine my amusement when Carrie and Mr. Big are given a tour of the "most beautiful NY apartment." I had to laugh - the entrance and the big white room with the French windows is where I've crossed thousands of times (along with other $40K a year office drones!) on my way to a meeting. That room is on the first floor, but they made it look like the penthouse! Bogus. So unlike most of the viewers, I couldn't lose myself in the fantasy! And that's what irks me about this film, none of it can be taken seriously, unlike the TV show. Everybody is dressed to the nines and the whole film feels like a long infocommerical for Bag Borrow or Steal, bridal designers, and Diane Von Furstenberg. From the first shot of Carrie wearing an obscenely ugly big flower dress to the flashy, oversized dresses and to perhaps the ugliest wedding dress I've ever seen - the Vivienne Westwood gown that is all about excess, not style - nothing is life-sized. Ironically Mr. Big wanted to be Mr. Modest - and got pummeled for it! Considering the excess on display around him, it came as no suprise that anybody who dared bring down an overdressed, spoiled NYC princess to earth should get hit. The same with the cheating husband of Miranda - he punctured her balloon of self-righteousness. I felt sorry for Jennifer Hudson - it was such an apparent attempt to "multiculturalize" the series by bringing in a black character, but she played a role that was no different than from that of a maid in the bad old days of Hollywood. Instead of making her an equal (a rich black woman), they made her a sappy Girl Friday who is as shallow and hungry for fashion and excess as her boss. When Carrie gave her the Louis Vutton bag I had to squirm. The moral is clear - anybody who loves material things is good; all other people are idiots. The only attempt to challenge this is at the end, when Carrie gives in to Mr. Big's wishes, but by that time, all the fashion show fantasy has been exhausted, and their wedding feels like a post-party afterthought. A hypocritical ending that tries to say "money and fashion isn't everything" that is so half-hearted. Yuck!