As a veteran who served at Camp O'Donnell in the 80's, I had to see this film. My fiance had emailed me the reviews from Amazon so I was very excited about seeing it.

I'm afraid I expected too much. The film does accomplish its most important job, which is to reveal the (mostly unknown) story of the Filipino/American experience of the Japanese occupation of the Philippines.

However, the writing is so second rate as to make the movie nearly tedious. Joseph Fiennes, Connie Nielsen, and Cesar Montano go to town with what little they're given.

Unlike previous reviewers, I found much of the story and dialogue bordered on cliche. I understand the story was inspired by historical events, but the writing fails to convincingly convey the bonds formed between soldiers, the fear, the heroism. It weakly rehashes all the old World War Two themes with unfleshed stereotypical characters (the young, innocent GI in the camp, the inexperienced captain with the brilliant plan, the stubborn, but admirable officer, the saint kissing, inexperienced soldier, the mother hen, look after his boys 1st Sgt). The camera shots are straightforward, the sound competent...the whole feel of the film  made for tv drama. Despite the wonky story which departs so much from the book, the last Thin Red Line did a much better job of conveying the FEEL of war in the South Pacific.

I was relieved that the women were portrayed as smart and strong. I was relieved that the atrocities of occupied RP were revealed, but not exaggerated. How disappointing that it was not filmed in the PI! What kind of underfed, wimpy carabao were those supposed to be?

Finally, the writers made no bones about their opinions of the Europe first strategy. They almost seem to want to decry the US for not handling the occupation sooner. And they made no effort to humanize the Japanese. It would be hard to achieve the last, but not impossible and in revealing the horror of the occupation, would have been worth the effort.

If you're a WWII veteran, a fan of the RP, or a fan of war movies in general, you'll appreciate this film. I'm just not so sure you can't wait to see it on video.