Let's get one thing out of the way before this review begins: A title means a lot in establishing what a show/movie/song is about to the audience.

You look at any product released for sale and you'll see how true this is.

- Being Human US/UK - A story about three roommates trying to live normal lives, despite being monsters.
- The Witcher 2 - A story about a monster slayer and his struggles within his world.
- Powerwolf/Night of the Werewolves - A song about the creation of werewolves, who emerge when the moon is full, and their impact on the populace.

For Teen Wolf, the title immediately mishandles the impact it offers. Because it only tells you only what the main character is, not what the series is about, and immediately makes older viewers think of the two comedy films that 'inspired' this show. For the films, the reverse of this was true, because both MCs were teenage werewolves and the films focused on their stories as them. (College starts at 18 or sooner.)

So, now that the title has mishandled some part of the impact of the show, let's move on.

Right from the outset, Teen Wolf establishes itself as a horror/comedy double act, with the former being the catalyst for the teen drama and the humor resulting from it. However, it takes getting through a very convoluted first few episodes and set-ups to reach that point. While this isn't a bad thing in and of itself, the problem this creates is again brought back by the mishandle of the title. After the scenarios of the first few episodes, the shows begins to focus far less on the Teen Wolf Scott, and more on everything else around him and Stiles.

Looking back, the only series on TV that has ever focused most on the titular werewolf character was Werewolf in the 90's. So, since Scott is in the same position as Eric, why isn't the show focusing more on his character? To be blunt, it's because he is one of the weaker, and least interesting, characters in the show.

We have Jackson, who provides the strong willed, for a jock anyway, bully type who wants what Scott has.
We have Derek, who works as the tough love mentor figure for Scott.
We have Stiles, who provides the hijinks, and occasional advice.
We have Lydia, who always remains clueless to the events around her.
And then Allison, the love interest whose family are hunters by tradition.

By contrast to these characters, Scott comes off as one of the weaker ones because his character is the one of the weak kid in school who gets both the curse and the perk of lycanthropy from the bite of another. While that sounds interesting in theory, the problem is the way the show presents this fact.

Not only is this a trope of werewolf stories in general, like Cursed, but Scott almost never has to deal with the negative side effects of being a werewolf. At least to any extent that causes a lasting impact on those around him. What his condition does offer however is tension in his pursuit of romance with Allison, notably with her family and how they see werewolves.

As a fan of Power Rangers, I can easily point to several characters from the series that had more personal dilemmas from being a Ranger, or not, than Scott does with lycanthropy in this show.

- Billy from Zeo - Denies himself the right to be a Zeo Ranger, choosing to be the tech guy instead.
- Sky from SPD - Constantly looks down on Jack, a criminal who got the right of Red Ranger instead of him.
- Mack from Operation Overdrive - Learns that he is an android, changing his personality and his team's perception of him.
- Jen from Time Force - Has to deal with the death of her lover, his subsequent resurrection, and understanding her love towards Wes instead of Alex.
- Astronema from In Space - Questions who she really is after discovering Andros is her brother.

Having a character with depth means you can feel for them and root for them when things related to them turn sour. Scott, despite being the main character, doesn't share this trait with the other characters on the show. Aside from his love, and his life, what else does he have to lose? His place on the lacrosse team? Maybe his mother, who is his last relative? His friends? All of those are tropes of werewolf stories, but the latter two are the least developed until way later in the series. To be frank, those are the plots that should've been looked into the most, instead of left to come in towards the second half of the show. The former three make up most of the struggles, with only the lacrosse one lasting the longest or being the middle in development.

If his lycanthropy was something that didn't just make him a sports star, and actually gave him something to struggle against, I could see less issues with those sub-plots.

By contrast to Scott, Peter Hale, the Alpha, is a far more likeable and relate-able person. His family was murdered by rouge hunters who violated their own code of ethics, so to take his revenge, he tracks down and slays every person responsible for their deaths. In the process, drawing out the one person who made the final choice: Kate Argent. Talk about devoted. This guy I wanted to live in the end because I liked his story a lot more than Scott's. He had a drive to avenge his family, akin to the Old West kind of vengeance. Not something that rolls well in modern America, but would send a message either way.

Now, onto the story.

The pacing of this series is actually one of the better sides of it. Almost each episode has something happen to get the viewers hooked, and the overarching mystery of the Alpha was also fun. Even if I have to call BS on Peter using a burst of quick healing on his face burns. Being a fan of 24 as well, I cannot say this series terrified me as much as that show did, but the show did have some nice moments. When Kate gave Allison the amulet she was wearing the night of the arson, hinting that the Alpha could have gone after her instead. Or the entirety of Night School, which was a nice use of the location to set up a final stand scenario.

However, I once again have to play the bad guy here. The problem with the story is it's a teen drama, meaning everything at the end will be resolved with little hang-over or true consequences related to any of the characters. It's a problem with teen related stories in general that gets put on a pedestal in this show, both with instances of plot convenience, and things that are based in terribly sketchy science.

Scott suddenly realizing another werewolf exists just because Derek slashes him.
The Alpha being able to control him by howling next to him.
Derek using a plant that was already shot into his veins, and is killing him, as the catalyst to counter that very same plant.

The number of Deus Ex Machina moments really start to show if you think about them.

Throughout the series, we see things between characters rise, dip, and sometimes warp, but at the end, we see no real change. No real consequences. However, given how Season 2 starts, I'm willing to wager this was because Teen Wolf was originally a one-shot series, and even once it was confirmed that wasn't the case, the writers didn't go back and try correct this. Instead saving everything for Season 2, causing a massive bout of emotional whiplash.

Which is why, when Season 2 came around, and even more so now, I am in the camp that said the series is over because no new stories could be told within the context of how Season 1 ended, without taking more focus away from Scott and his condition.

Production-wise, Teen Wolf has some serious backing from MTV, which does help with the sets and the cinematography. What it doesn't help with however is the costuming and make-up effects. Feel free to argue that this is a TV series, meaning shelling out for costumes isn't as big a deal, but when a network like NBC can support something like Grimm, which has unique monsters every episode, I find that argument quite shallow.

Where a network/production studio budgets its money in a series can show you where they're focusing their attention.

For CSI, it was the CGI/live-action crime reels, forensics, and eventually crossovers.
For Power Rangers, it was big scale monster battles, new stories, and martial arts/weapon fighting.
For Teen Wolf? It's eye candy, pretty scenery, and OK writing.

When I say 'eye candy', I doubt that needs much elaborating on. Like True Blood, Vampire Diaries, Jersey Shore and to an extent, Twilight, Teen Wolf belongs to a network that works best with leading roles given to great looking models, and the story having a lot of cuddling scenes. Hence why every male in the series, aside from Stiles, looks like a model, and the romance is a major focus. This becomes even more obvious in Season 2 when the main characters start disrobing more and the sensual scenes become more frequent.

Don't believe me? Try watching Season 2 Episode 1 with the sound off and pay attention to what's on screen only. Also, read positive reviews of Season 1 for this show. Almost every single one will, without fail, mention this fact in some way. That Scott is cute, the cast looks great, certain things are sexy, ect, ect.

While the films before also had romances involved, they had them as side-plots. Not a main one. Which circles back to the title once again. I believe the detractors of this series are completely correct about the misuse of the title. All things considered, it doesn't do the show any real justice and simply besmirches the original films with the use of the name.

If I was to name this series, I'd use the phrase "The Howling" in some fashion instead. The reason is because those films also focused less on the werewolves and more with those who came close to them. Both in plot, and in sensual, terms.

Final Rating - 4 out of 10

The show isn't that great, all things considered. I'd call it competent, but not great. When I look at it, I can see some parts that work, but quite a lot that don't when you take the series apart and look at those segments.

If I was to offer any piece of advice to the makers of this show as it is now, it would be this: Take a step back and stop trying to raise the proverbial bar so high with shock scenes. Because at some point, likely in Season 2, that bar is going to fall, hit your heads, and drop this show off MTV because things have gone completely bonkers and suspension of disbelief has left in the process.

Bringing in so many plot conveniences, whipping around the emotions of your audience, and focusing too much on nice looking bodies isn't going to make you the next True Blood, or Twilight. Both of which I can see influences from in this series, even if some would like to say otherwise. TV is run by trends as much as games are, and you don't have to look hard to see it.