Faithful to the novel is all well and good, and as others have said, this Mildred Pierce pretty much is.  Having said that, transferring a novel into a screenplay, into a mini-series that is five, six, ten hours (whatever this thing is - I found it unwatchable) is another matter.

As an example, the first line of the novel, Gone With the Wind states "Scarlett O'Hara was not a beautiful woman."  The film opens to the ravishing Vivian Liegh.  Can you imagine remaking Gone With the Wind and opening to a homely Scarlett?  That was tried with a remake of Jane Eyre from the superlative classic with Orson Welles and Joan Fontaine.  Reviews of the remake (any of the remakes of Jane Eyre really) were pretty much uniform in saying "Does anyone really believe that Jane Eyre was THIS plain?

That, in a nutshell, is the big problem overall with this remake of Mildred Pierce.

I tried to be objective since the original Mildred Pierce with Joan Crawford is so great as other reviewers have pointed out in length, and the novel is good.  So, I made an attempt to watch it again when the station ran all the episodes at once and practically lapsed into a coma.

Being a Los Angeles native, and growing up in and around Glendale and Pasadena during the time period did not help my feelings about this film.  From the colors, to the dead palm trees, to the locations - nothing comes close to the real thing.  The feel does not come close.  The Atlantic is NOT the Pacific, and nothing looks like Laguna Beach but Laguna Beach.  Anyone who has driven on Pacific Coast Highway (Hwy. 1) will not ever mistake it for anywhere else.  No one who has been in Pasadena mansions at that period would mistake them or the people themselves for anywhere else, nor Glendale, nor the few women of that period who broke the sound barrier into their own businesses (like my mother.)

The Mildred Pierce we are presented with in this version couldn't figure out a red car schedule.

Kate Winslet is a beautiful woman.  They turn her into a rather stupid fat frump with tree stump legs.  This is the Mildred Pierce with the beautiful legs who attracts men right and left?  She runs around looking perennially befuddled and then shocked by pretty much everything that is glaringly obvious happening in her life.

Comparison with the brilliant and gorgeous Joan Crawford does not help.

All the caracters were hideous by comparison with the original version of Mildred Pierce.  Frankly, hideous by any measure.  It may have been bad script or bad casting - or both.

The only exception is Veda.  Maybe not as good as the original version, but real close and certainly as skin crawly.  These little vipers are well described as the world's worst daughters.