Each generation has its own definition of certain pop cult characters (Dr. Who, Star Trek crew, Superman).  In the "S on the chest" category, Reeves is my choice.  This movie depicts my generation's veneration for Reeves as Superman with a somewhat satirical arch, though the film is indeed better when it deals with that aspect of the Reeves story than with the love life and career struggle threads that dominate the Reeves plot.  (This is NOT, after all, really a movie about Reeves OR his death.)  On one occasion, the film's "Ben Reeves" does wink at his young adulators, too briefly hinting at the charisma and charm the real Reeves brought to the "Georgian" super hero.  A little more empathetic nostalgia to ballast the clay-footedness would've been appreciated, if Ben were up to it.

The popularity of Ben Affleck has long been a mystery to me.  I'd heard that he gained weight for his role as George Reeves later in life, as a naked (possible) suicide.  That tiny onscreen paunch?  George should've been so lucky!  Over all, Affleck sweats out the same wooden monotone and doughy poker face that are his trademark.  But his performance is not the reason for such a low rating.  He could've been worse.

The screenplay "reads" like a novel about a fictional detective who undergoes all the usual noir situations and--oh, by the way--coexists somewhat distantly with a famous real-life case.  BLUE DAHLIA, anyone?  It's more LAURA than an A&E "crimes expose" reenactment. As such, it aspires to recreate the atmosphere of CHINATOWN and its sequel, at times effectively recreating the '50s noir aura but with few John Alton moments.

The Reeves phenomenon and the mysterious death are what drew me into the theater, plus hearing some interviews with makers of the film.  The producers made interesting decisions, particularly salting the background not just with sparkling cars from the year being depicted but dusty autos of every vintage for a touch of authenticity.  The detective's sleezy motel is a pleasure as well, eerily matched in a 1971 David Janssen noir film called WARNING SHOT that I watched a couple of days later.

But it's the Mickey Spillane misogyny that tanks the movie.  The women are coarse, voracious, and persistently unpleasant.  Their only interests are money, forcing their sexual upperhand, and foul language.  Lacking the style and mystique of, say, CHINATOWN's Mrs. Mulray or ANY of noir's genuine femme fatales (Trevor, Totter, Windsor) their trash-bound characterizations do in the picture.