To say that Wrath of the Titans is marginally better than Clash of the Titans is like saying your glass of water isn't as wet, if anything it's the density of the cup it's in it. I might have liked Wrath slightly more since I wasn't expecting to like it any less. I thought a Clash of the Titans redux would have actually been pretty good since the original was no great shakes of a movie to begin with, it was badly written and had hopelessly out of date effects in it's day, it never occurred to me that a remake could actually be worst.
 This sequel picks up a decade or so later with the gods all butt hurt because mankind has stop praying to them. So Zeus (Liam Neeson) gets himself kidnapped by his spiteful brother Hades (Ralph Fiennes) and his ungrateful son Aries (Edgar Ramirez). So in a reversal from his Taken role Liam needs his son, Peruses (Sam Worthington) to lead a rescue mission and save his divine derriere.
 In what looks like a big budgeted Syfy channel movie, Wrath boasts good looking special effects that manage to remain unengaging and a story that is horribly dull and covers only the most familiar of ground. A few things did cross my mind while watching this movie, first I want to know how is it that the makers can get such talented actors to deliver such unspeakable dialogue with such earnesty. The other is that Rosumund Pike is very beautiful even when covered in dirt, she's also not a bad actress, I wonder why real stardom has remained aloof to her.
 Told in a completely straight manner, this movie never has any fun with it's silly premise. It takes it's self far too seriously. At least the wonderful Bill Nighy has a few good moments as Hephaestus, he gets to mock the "release the Kraken" line, talk about seducing a mermaid and has a moment reminisce of the Black Knight from Monty Python and the Holy Grail.
 At least the 3-D effects are an improvement over the last time, at least I assume so, I didn't actually see it in the third dimension, but unlike it's predecessor it was filmed in 3-D. I'm glad that I did not see it in such as I probably would have hurt myself trying to pull off the ridicules cobwebs masquerading as facial hair on Neeson.
 If you liked the first movie, you might like this one. If you like Greek mythology, good movies or entertainment, then I would suggest passing this one over. Worth a few laughs, but awful lugubrious getting there.
Check out my reviews at moviezonemagazine.com