Obviously films like this polarise opinion, so let me preface this review with the following.

There are no sacred cows.

(Well, unless you're a Hindu in India, and even then, only the actual cows are sacred.)

No person's statements are immune from critique, no person's opinions automatically infallible. Doesn't matter if you're the Prime Minister, the President, the Pope... or Michael Moore. It is human nature to question, to say "really?", to ask for more information, to want the full story. Humankind tends to get itself in a terrible mess when lies are accepted as truth, so in a time where knowledge is increasingly controlled and distributed by fewer channels, each with an ulterior motive, it is even more important to question everything.

Since 'Roger & Me' and especially after 'Bowling For Columbine', Michael Moore has generated a considerable amount of negative criticism. Much of it of course is from the other side of the political sphere who purely reject his utopian socialist outlook on all things - and that's fine. The beauty of the USA is that freedom of speech is absolute (unlike my own country, despite my national anthem telling me I'm "young and free") so people are as free to say those things as Moore is to say what he says and put it into a film.

Alongside this simple chorus of disagreement though, many others have taken a closer look at Moore's claims and facts and found anomalies and distortions of truth in his works. Over time, Moore has developed a reputation - at least in some circles - for regularly distorting and misrepresenting interviewees and other important facts through clever editing. Some of this other 'techniques', particularly impromptu interviews, staged footage and making his interviewees come across like idiots, has drawn ire too.

As such, the notion of Michael Moore not necessarily being a modern day Jesus for the under-trodden working class stiffs isn't a new concept, even back in 2004 when 'Michael Moore Hates America' was released. Michael Wilson's film is actually one of many anti-Moore films that have been released in the past 8 or so years.

So is it any good?

Let's start with the title, seeing as it is what most people get their knickers in a knot over. Does Michael Moore hate America? That's open to opinion, of course, and hate is a strong word, but perhaps it would have made a more appropriate title? Indeed, Michael Wilson would probably agree. Even the mere addition of a question mark - 'Michael Moore Hates America?' - might have taken some of the heat off him, turning a rather absolute and controversial statement into a question still worthy of controversy, but as it is a question many have asked, also worthy of further investigation. Yes, 'Michael Moore Hates America' as a title guarantees the first time filmmaker enough notoriety to give his otherwise tiny production some press, and yes, Wilson is well entitled to believe that Moore does indeed hate the American that he himself loves. It is curious though - and refreshingly fascinating - to see the influence of the title itself takes on Wilson and his skeleton crew as the film progresses.

At its heart, the film is about Moore's alleged misrepresentation of fact. Wilson revisits key subjects in Moore's earlier films - namely the Bank 'giving out free guns', the NRA and Peter Damon (the Iraq veteran who lost both his arms of whom footage of his recovery was shown in Fahrenheit 9/11 without his permission) - to tell their side of the story. It is revealed that viewers of 'Bowling For Columbine' got a false impression of the said Bank's process for the free gun offer - which are delivered to a licenced firearms dealer, and not given out over the counter at the bank itself. Moore both requested an exception for himself as well as deliberately misrepresented his intentions regarding the film to the Bank staff. Interviews with NRA representatives show how Moore combined multiple speeches by then-president Charlton Heston on different dates to portray him as seemingly callous and unmoved by the events in Columbine and Bueller. Damon rejects Moore's portrayal of US soldiers in Iraq, stating that he at no time felt 'left behind' regarding his treatment nor was Moore's opinion indicative of many of the troops. Despite his disability, Damon is proud of his work in Iraq, his involvement with the military and the positive effect it has had on his life.

Wilson also checks out some other 'Moore facts', discovering that plenty of people in Canada lock their doors, and that the city of Flint (not actually Moore's real home town) isn't quite the desolate wasteland of despair that Moore makes out as a punchline to basically every one of his films. A believer in America as the 'land of opportunity' and wary of Moore's representation of The American Dream as unobtainium for the average person, Wilson interviews Flints residents with their own businesses, discussing their drive and determination to be successful and make a living in their community.

The other theme throughout the film is of course Wilson's 'Roger & Me'-style attempts to get an interview with Moore himself. His ultimately unsuccessful attempt, at least in my opinion, highlights a certain hypocrisy in Moore character, if only his unwillingness to defend his films squarely and face-to-face. Moore has become the 'Roger', so to speak; the rich white guy who avoids criticism of his own actions.

Wilson is a first time film maker and what 'Michael Moore Hates America' lacks in big budget pizzazz and professional cinematography, it makes up for in its simple, honest and earnest presentation. Clocking in at a modest 90 mins of runtime, it also manages to avoid much of the somewhat vague 'informational tangents' typical of Moore's own films, keeping things on track and on topic. It is also a rather 'self-aware' production; not only does Wilson question his use of title, but his small team berate him for using similar techniques to Moore, such as not being upfront about the film and, in particular, not mentioning the title of the project. Though I'm sure it wasn't intended, the film itself acts as something of an exploration into the documentary form itself, as Wilson and Co. grabble with the process of making an honest documentary about a dishonest documentarian, with the suggestion that indeed all documentaries are in way a distortion of reality.

So does Michael Moore Hate America? I guess it depends on your definition of hate, and your definition of America. Certainly Moore has demonstrated considerable disdain for many aspects of American culture and politics he deems bad or wrong ie. in his opinion. Does that America exist beyond his own mind? Do the majority of Americans agree with him, as he claims? Well, not being an American myself, it's not for me to answer.... but I get the feeling plenty of people would disagree. Does Michael Moore misrepresent and distort the truth? Well, yeah... there's plenty of evidence to support that his 'documentaries' use a healthy amount of creative licence.... no doubts there.

But, does the end justify the means? Here perhaps is the crux of the discussion and a point Michael Wilson - wisely - leaves up to his audience to decide for themselves. For me, I don't think it does.... not because of ideology or morality, but simply this - why make a statement that isn't watertight? If the opinion or idea you preach can't withstand reasonable scrutiny, you've done a disservice to the message you wish to spread. Perhaps that's Michael Moore's greatest flaw? Not the hounding of interviewees, the misrepresentation of facts, the sneaky editing and the oversimplification of complicated issues... but simply the rather average job he does putting his case forward to the masses. It is rather ironic that the success of his films has relied on the one thing he and fellow liberals and socialists bemoan most of middle America - that of apathy, ignorance and believing everything the TV tells you without question.

Regardless of whether you consider Moore an angel or a demon, 'Michael Moore Hates America' is a film worth watching.