So the 1st KK is a classic. All about real issues that a teenager can relate too: moving, deceased loved one, relationships, getting picked on, rising up to bullies, being mentored by older person, etc...All very real stuff. It feels like it fits in with all the other classic 80s films. The only thing unrealistic is the fact that Daniel masters the art of karate in about 4 weeks.

Then they made KK2, and I was like "WTF". The basis for the movie should have been that Daniel and Ally were still together, all of the old Cobra Kai members are now Daniel's friends and train with Mr. Myuigi, and Kreese is out for revenge. It would have shown the rewards of Daniel doing the right thing in the first film, and motivate young people to keep doing the right thing despite oppostion.

But No. Instead Ally, the deap, complex, real character from the first film gets reduced to a dumb bimbo blonde in exactly one line at the begining of the second film, and then they put Daniel in a bunch of situations that NO teenager can relate too.

I highly doubt that any young person has walked away from watching this movie thinking "Boy I sure am glad that I have so much in common with Daniel. After all, I too have traveled to a different country with my only friend in life, who ironically is a 70 year old man from Japan, somehow became the key piece right in the middle of a political conflict involving a small town, have had a psychopath threaten to kill me, who coincidentally was the nephew of the psychopath trying to kill my one-and-only 70 year old best friend, and infact fought this psycho in front of a huge crowd at a Japanese Celebration as he tried to kill me. Wow I never knew we had so much in common!"

The music is over-the-top big time in this film. It sounds like you are watching an episode of the "Young and the Restless", with how dramatic the music is trying to be, and it is constantly playing through out the movie.

Also, most of the film is about Danielle and Meeskwogee getting harrased by Sato's hired goons, Jozen and the gang, trying to get Mr.Meyaagee to fight. This film could have been alot shorter had Meeyagee agreed right from the Begining.

What a Stupid Movie.