I am reminded of another Tom Hanks movie, "That Thing you Do". In it the rock band choses to call itself the Oneders instead of the Wonders. Why is this movie called Cast Away instead of Castaway? Is this supposed to center the focus of the film where his girlfriend seems to cast him away? I thought this film was about the middle where he is a castaway on an island. Why go with such a deep title? It makes me think too much. I enjoyed Cast Away the first time out. I have friend at work who saw Cast Away the same weekend I did and he told me he walked out of the movie and got his money back after the first half hour! I thought he was an idiot because having seen the whole movie it was pretty good overall. I am no longer so sure he is so dumb, but he did miss most of the entertaining part of the film. Castaway is very engaging after the plane crashes as Chuck Noland (Hanks) must strategise for his survival and rescue. From the film's outset Hanks character is established as hard core dedicated to Federal Express and his customers. It is kind of sweet to see how he remains consistant to that trait even when he is alone on an island. He endures many painful hardships that will have you wincing and covering your eyes at times. It makes you very happy when he finally has a little victory. His relationship with Wilson the volleyball is a memorable touch. Tom Hanks performs his heart out as usual. Castaway takes a long time to get going. Before he becomes stranded the film needs to establish Hanks is dedicated to his job, has a girlfriend he hopes to marry, and has the beginnings of a toothache. Unfortunately it meanders by including an arguably unnecessary sub-story about a package from an anonymous customer and a friend who's wife has cancer. This could have all been much briefer as so much of it was mundane. I am a true believer that no good film can be too long and no bad film can be too short. Castaway falls somewhere in the middle. It is a good film bookended between a dragging mediocre film. After spending eighty plus minutes on the island, Noland is finally rescued there is another extended segment which includes the public national welcome home parties, a failed reunion and a wrap up of the story of the anonymous customer's package. Hanks reflects on his experience and comes up with a metaphysical conclusion that he must just "be" which is neither inpiring or particularly insightful. The film is deeply flawed by continuing the films stay well beyond its welcome point. But of course Tom Hanks plays a character who is easy to care about making the film still worthy of a lackluster recommend. Like the newest Notting Hill super collector's DVD which has six hours of bonus material, Castaway contains more than I ever want to know about the movie. No less than five featurettes, including Hank's interview with Charlie Rose, Artwork, storyboards and commercials and trailers for the film. Plus a full length commentary by Director Robert Zemekis and crew. If you love Castaway you will certainly love this disc. If my review were only about the time spent stranded on the island I would be happy to give this film a stronger grade. Unfortunately over a third of the film drags unnecessarily I reluctantly must say this film can be a bit of a bore.