I went to the theatre to see the first one and was not impressed.  Although, the most unpredictable part in the first one is when the little cutie gets hit by that bus!  Some of the rest of the movie was just funny and real predictable.  Then something made me watch it again on DVD.  I though a little more of it afterwards and then checked out the FD2.  I'm more into reality and I though the second installment was more in depth than the first and found that it also goes deeper into FD1 which made these two better together.  At the end, I knew it wasn't over (of course...) Finally, the third arrives.  Death on a roller coaster wasn't as thrilling as a plane explosion or even on the highway during rush hour.  Anyway, after Devil's Flight, the story falls flat with one whole scene about FD1 and nothing about Part Two.  When I thought about it, I said maybe FD3 was the idea they had before creating FD2 and that's why there's no mention of the events or charactors of FD2 in Part 3.  Sorry, I have no excuses, that was just a thought in my mind after seeing this huge disappointment.  During the dream sequence, let's face it, this movie would have ended if that fool hadn't of had the camcorder with him on the ride on top of getting it knocked out his hands!  After the dream sequence, the guy with the camcorder got off the ride to follow the dimespieces.  That accident, clearly, shouldn't have happened!  The hydrolic line, which is what brings down the safety bars and locks them while the ride is in motion, would not have broken and neither would the coaster track.  Just thought I would clear that up.  For those checking this review, I do have an imagination and if Death had revenge for those that cheated it, the forces that caused these unbelieveable events in Part 3 could happen.  This one just didn't match up to what happened in the first 2.  In my opinion, this one may have worked better as a PSP game.  I failed to mention that I didn't see this one at the movies, I got the DVD and it has the option to watch it with alternate scenes.  It would not have been better at all for me.  It is what it is and I don't care if I have this one in my collection.  I wish the director would've got kicked by that horse instead... LMAO!!