My mother and I watched this together on a Saturday night.  We ended up sobbing by the end of this movie.  It was very realistic.  This movie potrays the family as they handle Jackie being diagnosed with cancer and the workings of a new family so well.  You could relate to the part of Isabel as the girlfriend and new stepmom with two kids who dislike you immensely, no matter how hard you tried, and always compared you to their mother.  And she also showed how difficult it is for the new wife to have two step-kids who will always hold their mother on the highest pedstal of love and perfection.  Susan Sarandon gave a beautiful and emotional performance.  She played Jackie, the mother.  My mother and I could relate to how she felt about having her part as Mother and Sole Protector of her children usurped by this younger, beautiful, working girl.  The young actors playing Ben and Anna gave a perfect performance as well.  The actor playing Ben portrayed his part as young, happy-go-lucky kid, who will always love his mother, so well.  The part where he said to his mother, "Mom, if you want me to hate her, I will." was so heart-wrenching.  It showed his love for his mother.  Anna played the part of the pre-teen who was going to go through her life withouth her mother so well.  The conversations near the end with Ben and Anna with Jackie brought on sobs.  Ed Harris also gave a good performance as the husband who tried to make the marriage work, but couldn't and now realizes, his first wife is dying.  This movie deserves an oscar, five stars, and a box of tissues.  I suggest you watch it with someone you really care about, a parent, aunt, grandparent, etc.  We tried watching it with Dad, but he didn't get it.  He made comments about the beautiful leaves in the fall scenes, and than left until the movie was over and came back again when we put in a Jackie Chan movie.  But this movie is a must see.  For the first time watching it, make sure you watch it with someone you really care about, it's worth it.