The director of "Memento" keeps the chronology moving forward this time, but continues
the mind games that will get under your skin, again.  Insomnia is Christopher Nolan's first
big Hollywood movie, and he couldn't have made a bigger name for himself.
A murder has plagued a small Alaskan town, their police force has called in Los Angles
detective Will Dormer (Al Pacino) to help catch the brutal killer (Robin Williams).
Dormer is accompanied by his partner, Hap, (Martin Donovan) who is threatening to
reveal details about a former case that could put Dormer's career in jeopardy.  From the
start, we see turmoil between the two cops.  Dormer and Hap travel with the local cops to
an isolated beach house out in the Alaskan wildlife where they suspect the killer to be
located.  
The scenery is absolutely gorgeous, a refreshing site that we are starting to see
less and less of thanks to George Lucas and CGI that produce artificial environments in
virtually every movie being made.  There is an intense chase through the thick fog and
consequently, Dormer fatally shoots his partner.  We automatically think it was an
accident, but the rough beginning between Dormer and Hap will make you question
Dormer's integrity.  When backup arrives, Dormer lies and tells the Alaskan cops that it
was the killer who shot his partner.  Detective Ellie Burr (Hilary Swank) is assigned to
investigate that specific shooting and begins to suspect Dormer after learning about his
past.  While working on the case, now without a partner, Dormer gets a call from our pal
Robin Williams, who tells Dormer that he saw the whole incident and blackmails Dormer
into helping him set up an innocent man to take the fall.
I didn't know what to expect walking into the movie knowing that Al Pacino would play
the good guy, and Robin Williams the role of a book writer that has brutally killed a 17
year old girl.  But it worked.  In fact, Williams was disturbing.  I tried seeing Williams in
his "Mrs. Doubtfire" days, but I couldn't produce an image.  He was evil, and did one hell
of a job.  Pacino was just as good.  His tired expressions were believable and so was his
attitude.  
Besides having to track down the killer, Dormer has to face an even bigger obstacle.  It is
summer in Alaska, and the sun has been shining for his entire stay.  Dormer finds himself
awake every night, unable to sleep through the blistering sunlight.  Pacino's naturally raspy
voice and baggy eyes make you feel his pain, and he always sounded like he was awoken
at 3 a.m.  As each day passes, his character gets no sleep, and he keeps getting flashbacks
of the chase where his kills his own partner.  He also begins to hallucinate while his health
sharply deteriorates with each passing day.
The chemistry was strong between Williams and Pacino, much of the time together was
them simply talking, trying to work something out so Dormer could save his career and
maintain his reputation as a the great detective that he is known as.  All of the acting was
convincing and nearly flawless.  No corny punch-lines that haunted Star Wars: Episode II
and other mainstream flicks.  Insomnia had nothing less than a solid script.
The constant daylight becomes it's own entity, making the frosty Alaska a surprisingly
creepy setting for Dormer to roam.  Insomnia is a movie you want to stay up for, even if
you haven't been awake the past six days, like detective Will Dormer.