To me, watching this movie is like watching a friend coming out on the screen....  It's believable and it's painful because of that.  If I considered <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GIXLX4">The Line of Beauty</a> to be an excellent movie that speaks a broader "gay experience", then Edge of Seventeen is a film that speaks to me at a more intimate level.

Now here's the review of the movie.  The movie is about a guy called Eric (played by Chris Stafford) who is in a sexual confusion which eventually hurt people who care about him and foremost, himself.  Despite growing up in the 90's, I think many of the growing pain of a homosexual man is still relevant (but given the feedback from some reviews, apparently kids from 2000's aren't going through the same sort of pain as before).  Eric has gone through a lot of stuff I can relate to: expressing himself through fashion and hairdo, feeling lost, enduring indignation with silence (what else could you do?), looking for love from both genders (but only going back to feel lost again).  The movie nailed every important subjects in the process of coming to term of finding self.

To those who couldn't find the point of the movie, let me offer this: not everyone can go to one of his parents and just say "Mom, I'm gay" without a long process in between.  I don't see the movie as a gay man trying to find love kind of movie, but a movie about a man's process of finding the real him.  Things like experimenting on hair style, putting on make up, going to gay bar, sleeping with guys, sleeping with his best female friend (!)..., etc., were all small details that eventually built up to the final conclusion.

I personally feel The Edge of Seventeen to be a very frank story that deserves to be noticed, but Strand Releasing (the publisher of this DVD) did a terrible job at market placement, I think.  I avoided this film because I had judged the movie by its cover....  However, it turned out to be much better than expected.  Like another reviewer mentioned, one may think this is an uplifting movie, but it's not....  I am guessing Strand probably believed marketing the movie this way may boost sale, but it pleases no one.  Honesty sells.  This is not a pastel colored love story, but a brutally honest coming out story, so why disappoint someone who was looking for a Friday fun and turn someone who was looking for a serious love story?  Target the customer correctly, please.

To Strand's credit, they generally publish good quality movies.  This and The Mudge Boy both offer stellar acting performance with strong scripts.  Chris Stafford should win an award for his role.  The script is believable and honest.  I didn't expect a good movie when I first started, but it ended up making me insomniac that night because it reached that deep pocket of my life that I thought I had long forgotten.

Rated E for Essential.