I bought this set (which in the UK is included with "At Last The 1948 Show" but here in the USA for some reason ain't) so my daughter could see what "real kid's TV was all about".

She is now convinced I had a deprived childhood.

I think anyone who didn't see the show the first time around wouldn't get much from this set, which showcases content badly degraded from neglect and 50 years in a leaky basement. The footage has stood up surprisingly well, with none of the frame roll and sound dropout "At Last The 1948 Show" suffers from in places, but Oh, what a cheap show it was.

The cast of the show was: Eric Idle, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, David Jason, Denise Coffey and the 1967-ish lineup of The Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band.

One rather sad issue is that the musicians' contract at the time called for (I believe) a new backing track to be recorded but the vocals to be performed live. This is problematical since Viv Stanshall is not at his best in some of the showcased tunes, especially my beloved "Look Out There's A Monster Coming". The Bonzos are often left looking perplexed by the bizarre situations they are put in by the script, and today's viewers may not understand the blackface number is a parody of a show that was current at the time DNAYS was first broadcast that would not get airtime today.

The whole thing is saved for me by David Jason and Denise Coffey as the arch rivals "Captain Fantastic" and "Mrs Black".

Yes, you'll see some wonderful sketches that were so good I remembered them all these years. You'll also see some clunkers. And everything was aimed somewhere around the 12 year old age demographic. You are duly warned.

There *is* a rather neat, if short, custom version of the Bonzo's "The Intro and the Outro" which a collector would find worthwhile I think.

And you may recognize stuff that made it into the later show, Monty Python's Flying Circus. The last episode, for example, is clearly the inspiration behind "Election Special".

This set is series 1. I don't know what happened to series 2, and why it isn't in the same set. You do get a couple of interviews on disc 2, one with Terry Jones and one with Tim Brooke-Taylor (little known in the USA but a mainstay of great comedy in the UK). Perplexingly, both interviews mainly concern the missing discs from the USA set - the ones containing "At Last The 1948 Show".

Worth what I paid. Four stars only because of the obvious idiocy of irrelevant interviews and splitting the set.