This video of Noam Chomsky's ideas on the media is intended to serve three purposes: 1) to argue for Chomsky's ideas on media misreporting of the news, 2) to provide a biography of the man himself, and 3) to present an alternative to mainstream media. The film is well done from a production point of view, but as an argument it falls short of its goals. The first and most important goal of the film is to suport Chomsky's arguments about the media portrayal of foreign affairs. He claims the media does not report on certain items that the US Government does not wish them to report. Its an interesting thesis, and certainly provocative. We might expect the author to provide both quantitative and qualitative data to support his claim. There is no attempt whatsoever to provide a large empirical sample, however. Qualitatively there is only one example-the media's lack of reporting of the US backed Indonesian government's savage war in East Timor. Chomsky argues that since the Indonesian military was waging a genocidal war against the native population, the media did not report it since it was rather embarrassing to the US. Furthermore, the US supported the Indonesian policy for economic reasons, which the US did not want to be made public.  This interpretation falls short on many levels. The situation began in 1975 with the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, and its subsequent attempts to repress the freedom movement there.  The Ford Administration was in fact disgusted by the naked aggression undertaken by the Suharto regime. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger stated that although the US did not like the violence perpetrated by the Indonesian Government, it really had no choice but to support them.  The reason, however, was not economic, but military.  With the Cold War against the Soviets raging around the globe, the US could not risk sending Indonesia to the Soviet camp by not supporting them because of the human rights abuses in East Timor. The US thus continued to support its Indonesian ally, sending them arms, some of which were used in East Timor.  Twenty-two years later, however, the global political environment had changed. With the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the US did not need to support Indonesia as an anti-Communist bulwark. Indonesia had also been infected by the Asian flu in 1997, and seemed unstable politically and economically in 1999, when the US changed its policy on East Timor. As the Indonesian military stepped up its violence against the native population, the atrocities grew worse.  The US government no longer needed Indonesia as an ally, and could now stop support for them based solely on their human rights abuses. Thus arms shipments were stopped, and the US supported UN intervention, as well freedom for the local populace. All of this was splashed across the headline of every major newspaper in August of 1999, contrary to what Chomsky may have predicted. Thus, the one case he uses to prove media bias does not work. The film does provide a good biography of the man and his ideas, and it also seeks to promote alternative media as well. But neither of these seems worthwhile when the one case he uses is disproved.