I agree with the reviewer who noted the historical innacuracies in the Tudors series. While some of these innacuracies can be condoned on grounds of poetic license, some appear to be egregiously gratuitous (i.e., having Henry's sister Margaret not only marry the King of Protugal--which never happned--but then have her murder him!) There appears to be no dramatic reason for that kind of historical innacuracy which is truly unforgiveable. On the other hand, I am more forgiving of the Series having Wolsey committ suicide rather than dying of natural causes inasmuch as there was some speculation at the time of his death that he did indeed commit suicide given that he was facing the curel justice of a vengeful Henry.(And certainly if Wolsey did committ suicide, Henry would have every reason to cover it up in a way that the historians could not access). A more serious criticism is that the Series apparently made no effort whatssoever to represent Henry even close to how the paintings of the day depicted him. Arguably the "young" Henry--depictions of which are quite rare--could have looked something like the actor in the Series, though the dark slicked back hair of the actor is hard to reconcile with the descriptions of Henry as more blond and stocky. And certainly the marine crewcut styles are even more difficult to reconcile with the images available. But perhaps the worst failure is to not have Henry age at all over his entire reign, especially given the numerous historical sources which all agree on his ballooning obesity and deterioration in his health. This failure is all the more stark given the near perfect depictions of Ann Boleyn and Katherine of Aragon by the actresses.(Especially the depictions of Anne Boleyn which is so nearly on the money that it's almost scary). So why, given these obvious deficiencies do I give this Series four stars? Because I applaud every attempt by the dramatic arts to make history interesting enough to inspire an interest in history. Many of those who watch this series will go to the history books and read the real stuff (and hopefully discover that Margaret never married the Kind of Portugal, and never in fact murdered him). Indeed, had the Series at least made a half-hearted attempt to depict Henry according to the sources available, and not engaged in the most egregious of it's historical innacuracies (the marriage of Margaret to the Kind of Portugal), I would have given this polished, entertaining, and addicitive production a full five stars. (I appreciate very much the use of candlelight in the indoor night scenes).