The prefaces of reviewing the grudge will hopefully allay concerns of people who enjoyed this... movie and are just reading to compare notes. The preface is simply this, a movie has a beginning middle and an end. It has development and it moves, no matter how confined the actual settings are. If character development is not an issue (and it isn't generally in horror movies) then plot movement is vital. To be more specific it is vital to making a good horror movie.

The grudge does not move. It does not plod either, but patiently instead walks constantly in the same circle, slightly alternating steps on each cycle. In effect this is a director's filmmaking exercise, taking the same elements of horror repeatedly and putting them in different containers. The sounds - including a sort of a Bjork Medulla-ish, throatal, moaning as children often make to prove they have a sore throat, isn't especially effective. The shadows are a little better in framing the suspense, but the small japanese house used as a setting is too symetrical and neat to be frightening.

Being PG-13 there are no chills from gore or violence or shock, all action is cut away from at the last second to maximize the potential audience. Imagine the same effect as Aliens vs. Predator's rating minus the attractive face of Sanaa Lathan or laughably bad directing. So instead we are repeated to the same teases as AVP offered. All buildup, no payoff. No variety, no change of pace, and no characters with interesting enough personalities to break the mood.

Our 'story' begins (or more accurately our stage is set) in a Japanese hotel room. A sudden suicide leaves a woman widowed, her husband having thrown himself over their balcony with no explanation or warning. From there the premise as explained in the trailers is played out. When someone dies in extreme agony the curse stays and all who encounter it are cursed. That's all. There are no Poltegiest of Hellraiser type developments. All we have are a series of excuses to show off the next scare tactic approxamitely every 15-20 minutes.

This is not a movie.

original review I wrote here: http://ess-bee.com/junkdrawer/movs/grudge.htm