Ladies in Lavender is a fabulous film starring two of the best British character actresses gracing the big (and small) screen as well as stage, Maggie Smith and Judi Dench.  They portray two elderly sisters, one a war widow (Smith) and one a spinster (Dench), who live in a cottage in a small town in Cornwall, England (a picturesque example of what life there should be).  The timeframe is 1936, between World Wars, and as the sisters are taking their daily walk along the Cornish coast on their property, they come across what appears to be the body of a man washed up on the shoreline.  They discover that he is still alive and vow to take him in and nurse him back to health.  It turns out he is a Polish violinist who somehow became separated from the ship he was aboard (not fully explained, but a minor point).  He speaks no English, the sisters speak no Polish, although Maggie Smith's character has a passing grasp of German, which is better than her piano playing--an amusing scene with the patient cowering and covering his ears upstairs in his room as she plays.  There are hilarous attempts to try and make each other understood, including Judi Dench's labeling everything with cards in English to teach him the langauge, drawing the ascerbic response from Maggie Smith that the only thing she had accomplished was to put holes in the furniture.  The sisters are very protective of their patient, but gradually share him with the community. He entertains everyone at the local pub when he borrows a violin and plays for them.  He also catches the attention of a beautiful vacationing foreigner who is there to enjoy the scenery and solitude and paint landscapes.  She, in turn, attracts the attention of the local doctor, who has been treating the Polish violinist. She happens to be the sister of a famous world-class violinist and she inadvertantly hears the recuperating Polish violinist play as she rides her bicycle past the cottage of the sisters.  Her interest in him, which the sisters misconstrue as romantic, raises the green god of jealousy, particularly in the spinster sister (Judi Dench) who daydreams of HER violinist.  The foreigner sends a letter to her famous brother telling him about the talent of this young unknown musician and also sends a letter to the Polish patient, telling him about her brother, but the sisters intercept and destroy it, of course, after having read it first.  The letter explained that her brother was touring and would be in London and wanted to meet the young Polish violinist.  Without giving away the final part of the story, it is a beautiful film; bittersweet, a touch of the missing coming-of-age romance for the spinster sister, gorgeous scenery and the realities of the situation in the world at that time. Maggie Smith and Judi Dench are real class acts who say volumes with their expressions and gestures. A real keeper of a film.