That heading is very brave and bold, so I need to try and justify it. First of all, to let you see where I am coming from,I love Sci-Fi, and have every Stargate episode ever made, except the follow on to this series. I am just about to view the last disc in this set, and thought that would be it, but no, there is more to come. I will be interested to see if it is justified, because , without yet seeing the last three episodes, I thought this series was going to be a single story, told in a full series arc.

Why do I make the above claim? As others have noted, it is a complete departure from the style of quality sci-fi the other 10 plus 5 series have brought us. The previous series (SG-1 and Atlantis) have been series where you can sit back and be entertained by good stories, good acting spiced with humour, and, for me, good enough to buy them all to see again (and again?). It is only recently we got to start watching SGU in Blu-ray (I don't think it has been screened here).

When it started it was obviously totally different in mood and construction to what we have seen in the other series. It is one story, serious, deep in its psychology, and adventurous in structure. We have been watching three episodes a night, so you can sustain the mood better than an watching an episode a week. It starts out quite blandly, and initially I thought I was going to be disappointed. But as you virtually live with the series, you see it is a character study of how people may react if incompatible characters are forced to live together in isolation (to generalise - the military members and the civilian members of a group of people who went through a Stargate and found they had reached the wrong destination: a vast, complicated starship, clearly built be an earlier civilization thousands of years ago, and they have no way to return to where they came from. They are forced to find out how to operate, to a degree, this vast ship, and try and live together with little hope of ever reaching earth).

This is not essentially an adventure series, but a character study of human interactions in an impossible situation. If the viewer really wants to derive from this series what it really contains, he/she must be prepared to think about what is happening, to discuss with others what you think has occurred in the episode you just watched (at times), even watch an episode a second time to get a grasp on events. Any viewer who doesn't see this, is missing what the series is all about.

Most television series are very much in the control of accountants who are not prepared to take risks. So they stick to tired old formulas until even the least critical of viewer says "I've had enough of this rubbish". Then they try to find another formula, similar to what has succeeded before, and try that. This is why commercial television is such a wasteland to the viewer who wants to be entertained, but wants to be made to think as well.

I suspect, that Stargate has proved such a success, the producers, when presented with the concept and brilliant writing of this series thought "...well, we have had a good run with Stargate, we can afford to risk something different, something outside the sphere of normal television viewing, something that requires a bit of intellect (sounds snobbish, but isn't meant to be; it's just a fact that you need to be prepared to THINK about this series if you are going to understand it) - and so the risk was taken.

As I said the series starts slowly and unimpressively, but with each episode, it continues to build - relentlessly. I can't wait for the last three episodes, and, now knowing there is a second series, I am ecstatic and disappointed at the same time. It is so good, I want to see more, but if the first series ended the story, I think it would be more intellectually satisfying.

So, have I justified my claim? I don't know. SUBJECTIVELY, I think it is virtually perfect. OBJECTIVELY, when you see that this is one story, beautifully constructed as it develops, more complications occur, and the cast need to show significant depths of their characters; with excellent photography, design, editing, lighting, music all supporting the outstanding writing and performances of all the cast, it is hard to find fault But I say again, it is definitely not commercial. If you have watched this and not found it complicated at various times; not been fascinated by the character study of the diverse people forced to live together in impossible and isolated circumstances, then you have missed the whole purpose of the series. This is a sci-fi series that could appeal to viewers who normally avoid the genre, but on finding that rare series, one that activates the mind, may well enjoy it.

Most people watch television just to turn off and relax. To be passably entertained, with no reason to give much thought to the previous night's viewing. If you fall into that category, as most do, having little to do with intelligence. Some of the most intelligent people watch light-weight TV so that they can turn off and wind down. But, at times, there are viewers who want a series that does engage the mind - they are the viewers who are going to derive quite a lot from this series.

Now, if I have sounded elitist, I am sorry, but I am just stating what I see as fact. A person is not elitist if they comment that, generally speaking Shakespeare is not for the masses, because it's a fact we all know. I wouldn't compare SGU with Shakespeare, but it does have some of his qualities. And it is good to see a series that is character driven and a study of human nature rather than yet another action series (although Stargate has always maintained a good balance here.

So that's it. I have tried to show when I have been objective and when I have been subjective, but how well I have succeeded only you, the reader, can tell.
POST-SCRIPT. After that terribly long review, I must add that I have just watched the final disc, to find that a new dimension has been added to the story. I am anxious to see if the second series is good enough to justify it being made. If it turns into an action series, it will spoil the character of this series. So I wait with anticipation. It is likely that if anyone reads this, they will already have seen the final series and know that answer. By the way, this is a series that REALLY benefits from a projection system. The big screen helps to emphasise the loneliness and loss (and the small-font titles imply it was made for a big screen.)