Twin Peaks has legions of fans, myself included. The TV series was and still is one of the greatest and most original undertakings ever presented. Hidden messages and symbolism pervade this journey into what some have called the most cryptic TV show ever made. The film TP: Fire Walk With Me is a far different story.  A supposed prequel, it is in fact also a sequel of sorts that never resolves the real cliffhangers that are still hanging since the show abruptly ended in June of 1991. The first 20 minutes of this film is an interesting attempt to give some backstory to the Theresa Bank murder, but unfortunately goes on way too long, and with supporting characters that got on my nerves after five minutes.  Once we get to the town of Twin Peaks, we find that it looks nothing like it did in the TV series, which was one of its greatest virtues.  Sadly, some of the best characters from the series are not in this film, such as Audrey Horne, Sherriff Truman, Lucy, and Ben Horne.  In addition, some of the supporting characters who do show up are given little more than cameo roles.  As for the story, any film that purports itself to be a prequel to a TV series should be understood without having to see the material from which it was spawned.  If you did not watch Twin Peaks the series, you will have a diffcult time comprehending what's going on here.  Supposedly, the rough cut of this film was close to four hours, which is evident by the editing, which chops off scenes and joins conversations that obviously had already started.  Having said all that, I would give an oscar nomination to Sheryl Lee, who's performance in this film as Laura Palmer is a tour-de-force for this actress, who unfortunately, hasn't since gotten a role that comes anywhere close to allowing her to display the talents seen here.  Ray Wise as Laura's father Leland is also tremendous in this role, truly scaring the hell out of the viewer.  Now we come to the unforgivable sin: What the hell was Lynch thinking when he decided to put David Bowie in this movie?  Mr. Bowie is only in the film for 10 minutes but still manages to stink up the set every chance he gets. He simply doesn't belong here.  We do get to see Laura go to heaven, but what about Dale Cooper?  The most important character in Twin Peaks, his fate is never resolved, and most fans wanted that above all else.  Angelo Badalamenti's score is, as usual, one of the stars of this film, and adding Julee Cruise for a song at the roadhouse was another beautiful moment in this film. I only wish that the missing footage would somehow be available, or that the fate of Cooper could someday be resolved. My suggestion?.  Let the final chapter of Twin Peaks be concluded on the X-Files, with Scully and Mulder the ones who ultimately find the Black Lodge and Dale Cooper.