PHILOSOPHY OF A KNIFE is a gruelling experience. It is NOT a factual film. If you are thinking of buying this, in order to gain a history lesson of what really went on at Unit 731, this isn't the film for you, as PHILOSOPHY... contains very little actual facts.

Neither is it a wholly fictional film. Thus, if you are looking for an epic horror film, then again, this is not for you.

What Iskanov offers up is a long, brutal and often disturbing mix of pseudo-documentary/Mondo film, alongside art cinema, complete with enough facts and evidence of some of what went on at Unit 731, and blends them together, into a discordant and powerfully angry one-of-a-kind film.

Yes, it's very, very long - running to just shy of four-and-a-half hours. But that epic, can be watched all in one go, or watched in two halves, as Unearthed Films have also offered the option to watch the film in two shorter segments instead, if you so wish.

The film is gory. It is violent. It is brutal, and disturbing, and unsettling, and tastless, and crass, and insensitive, and every other verb you could use to throw at a shocking film, that deals with one of mankind's worst historical episodes. I also believe that whatever Iskanov's intentions were, this is a film of which there is nothing else like it.

It is simply an experience. You will not enjoy this film. You may not even like this film. What you will do, however, is watch it, experience it, and then question everything you've just sat through.

Other reviewers have complained that it is too long. Maybe it is. I disagree. I don't see why all films should be a maximum of 90-minutes in length. (I get the impression that those that can't sit still for such a long time, are probably the same individuals who have the attention span of a gnat, and need contstant mental stimulation, to stop them from becoming bored. There's always the Pause botton on your DVD remote-control. But that's the "MTV Generation" for you, I guess! The same generation that raves over every single, sodding remake of classic horrors, and thinks that only plentiful gore makes a good horror film - they're all wrong!)

There have also been complaints about the scenes involving snowfalls. Well, they are there for a reason. It's to give viewers a moment to breathe. To pause and reflect. To take their mind away from much of the shocking depravity that Iskanov is offering up to you, to consume. Any film with such an extensive running time, and with such an intense theme, would wear out most audiences, if it were full-on and never gave people a break.

Some of PHILOSOPHY... is excellent. Some of it, is deeply pretentious. The acting is varied also - hovering between good and execrable. (Ironically, it is the younger, more modern cast members who are the least effective, and don't seem to care about their roles, or injecting any kind of "talent" into the film.)

But whether you believe what you are being fed, by Iskanov, or whether you think he's talking complete garbage, you will certainly come away with realising that what went on during World War 2 were the worst things that any humans have ever performed on other human beings. The film is filled with genuine attrocity footage: a few frames here, a few seconds there. But real footage it is, and that is what makes the whole thing a gruelling experience. Whilst your mind is telling you how some of the effects are done, the film will then jolt you back into reality, and devastate you with genuine, bona-fide footage, that will chill you to the core.

As it should.

As Iskanov and his crew say in the film's Introduction, this is not meant to be an entertaining film. It is not even meant to be a horror film, in the true meaning of the word. It is simply meant to be.

If you're looking for a gore film, then this may satiate you. However, I think those viewers do the film and Iskanov a great disservice. This film is a document. A testimony to how unbeareably cruel human beings can be to one another, if we think about it for long enough.

For that reason, I believe the film is a valid piece of cinema. Not every film has to have a point. Not every film has to justify its raison d'etre. Not every film has to fit in to what every hole we want it too.

Sometimes, like life itself, films can just be what you make of them.

An interesting oddity, but a one-of-a-kind experience that is worth your time and patience.