As an indy and director's first film, pretty good and worth watching. I liked the photography, especially nice lighting on abandoned buildings etc. The acting was quite okay. For me it was effectively creepy and in that sense engaging.

Why was it creepy? Some of the main characters looked like they were on the verge of insanity -- the line was not clear -- and that was portrayed darkly and that is creepy for me. The characters are driven by compulsive curiosity about the riddles and such even though it could get them killed. This sort of risky thing does emerge in human nature, and we all have to learn how to deal with it. Most maybe learn to just not go there. But for others it can suck one into what ends up being dangerous games. Sometimes in life -- especially among the young -- it can looks as though we are surrounded by people compulsively playing games with each other out of curiosity that can get out of hand.

That is what resonated with me. If that was "the point" of the film I am not sure that it was well presented, so I am reluctant to credit it.

Also the sequences in the film seemed to jump around unnecessarily and I found that distracting. But maybe that was me. Still, I enjoyed the film for the photography and tense atmosphere.It was not a cliche of horror and suspense films but did have a provocative psychological element that for me was compellingly presented.

I will say that some of the characters were hoping to get out of the game the answer to the riddle of life -- the big one. That can seem corny on the one hand, but on the other there are many people who can probably relate to this the film can remind one of this. People fall into cults and causes right and left!! This game is by no means a conventional cult, though. It consists of players who do not seem to know each other face to face and is much more abstract and not held together by the usual tricks. Personally I thought that this was an interesting idea and would have liked to seen it better explored. If I watch it again I will spend more time trying to decide if there was actually more there than I caught. But right now it seems that one viewing was sufficient.