I guess I was expecting "Jennifer's body" to have something to do with the story. But no, Jennifer isn't even the main character here. The protagonist is actually Amanda Seyfried's character, you know the actress given second billing. Marketing I guess.  Jennifer/Megan Fox and her body would sell more I suppose was the thinking.

Anyway, Seyfried and Fox are supposed to be BBF's I guess. We know this because we are told they share "sandbox love", whatever the hell that is. Apparently "sandbox love" involves children sucking blood from each others cuts which leads to a psychic link. Yeah. This is supposed to explain why Seyfried's alleged nerd status (ala Hollywood's idea that any girl with glasses is automatically a "nerd") and Fox being the most popular cheerleader/slut in high school, allows them to be best friends.

So this unlikely pair of stereotypes head off to a bar to see a boy band called Low Shoulder. These boys are looking for a virgin it seems and  for reasons beyond comprehension they decide that Fox is the most likely candidate. Apparently Seyfried used her psychic powers of  "sandbox love" to hear this plan being discussed from across the room in a crowded noisy bar. Despite this, the members of Low Shoulder will whisk Fox away anyway.

At this point the bar burns down and the two girls narrowly escape the fire that kills several of their classmates. Fox is then taken away by the boy band, we assume for sex. But Fox returns later, covered in blood and puking up black goop. But that's ok, she's fine the next day. This is where the "mystery" is supposed to start.

Then the film goes off on a watered down detour through Heathers country as the high school students go through grief counseling. Seyfried suspects something is wrong with her friend now. I suppose it's because Fox is slightly more callous/manipulative/shallow than she used to be. Turns out Fox is some sort of demon/vampire/werewolf/succubus/whatever the hell she is thing now and she eats the Stereotypical Dumb Jock.

Next on Fox's hit list is Stereotypical Goth Emo Kid. Seyfried has shown an interest in this Goth kid despite already having a nebbish boyfriend under her thumb. Apparently Seyfried has a thing for weak, easily controlled men. At any rate Seyfried gets some psychic impressions of the killing while she and her boyfriend are having sex.

At this point Fox decides to tell Seyfried all about her transformation "cause they are BBF's". The boy band tried to sacrifice her to Satan in exchange for fame and wealth but since she was not a virgin, she became this weird monster. (but the band gets famous anyway) End of "mystery". Yeah, what mystery. There is no reason this could not have been shown to us right away as it being withheld has no bearing on the plot. Seyfried is horrified but this does not stop the two of them from having an inexplicable lesbian makeout session in the middle of this revelation. (???) Maybe Fox has hypnotic powers or something. Whatever.

Now Seyfried breaks up with her bf  "to protect him". But what do you know, this all leads to Fox getting her mitts on him. Psychic Impressions to the rescue though as Seyfried senses this and rushes to save the dude in distress. (Isn't all this subversion of the genre clever?! No? Yeah, not really)

Seyfried finally figures out what we knew all along: that Fox has never really been a good friend/person. (Yes, the women in this film are only marginally less completely stupid than the men. Is this supposed to be empowering?)  Not before Fox kills Seyfried's worthless boy-possession though. He "was dead before she got there....but Seyfried's voice brought him back just long enough to say goodbye..." and impale Fox with a metal pole. Which prompts Fox to ask if Seyfried has any tampons.  No, really. Of course the boyfriend  missed Fox's heart (the only way to kill her apparently) and she just runs off.

Time for the big showdown. This involves lots of lame callback dialogue quips, Seyfried getting bitten, and breaking Fox's BBF chain necklace which seems to render her powerless enough for Seyfried to stab her in the heart. Unfortunately Fox's mother bursts in and Seyfried is shipped off to the mental institution, where she becomes known as "the kicker", you know cause she now kicks people's teeth out for making harmless comments in her direction. You see, the bite Fox gave her has transferred demonic powers to Seyfried, who breaks out and goes on a quest to destroy that evil boy band that caused this whole mess. Cut to end credits sequence showing her decimation of the band. I guess Satan wins? I'm not really sure. But that Seyfried sure can kick a lot of butt so...whatever, dude. Awesome and stuff.

Boo.

I hope teens don't actually use the witless slang that is peppered throughout this film. It's so uncreative and direct that it comes across like bad puns. "Groovy" may not be a great word, but it's better than "you give me such a wettie" or "You need to move on...dot.org." That doesn't even SORT of make any sense. Seriously, please tell me actual teens are more imaginative than this.

It's ridiculous how many songs are shoehorned into this movie's soundtrack. I lost count. Some songs don't get more than a few seconds worth of play before another one kicks in, one after another. I assume it's suppose to seem "artistic", but it plays more like they couldn't decide what song to play over a scene so they just used them all.

The film is good on a technical level. They know how to work cameras and such. But basically its just a dumb teen slasher/monster movie with some "genre subversion" involving role reversal. Which isn't really anything new in slasher films. Woman as heroine is basically a staple in this sort of film. I'm told the woman who wrote this thing won an Oscar for Juno so, she must be at least competent. Are these people just ignorant?  It's as if they assume people who might like a horror film are dumb, so their idea of elevating the genre is to just feed them the same generic crap with a some "clever hipster dialogue" and "genre subversion". Just to get the kids thinking...subliminally...about...uh, something. It's sort of condescending.

Or maybe their agenda was no more than "horror movies tend to be cheap to produce and make money".  Either way, this movie is just awful.