Scream is a pretty darn good movie.  If someone was to view it now for the first time, it might seem old and unoriginal, because they have seen a dozen other slasher films from the late 90s.  However, those people might forget one key fact.  SCREAM WAS THE FIRST MOVIE TO USE THE TECHNIQUE AND STYLE IT DOES.  There have been SO many other countless imposters after it that simply cannot live up to it.
A lot of reviews say Scream is not scary at all, from what I've read.  They point out it is a satire.  YES!  IT DOES MAKE FUN OF THE HORROR GENRE.  But, there are also scenes of complete terror in Scream.  Horror and Comedy are closly linked because they are probably the two strongest emotions that humans feel.  An example is after an audience screams from being startled, they usually LAUGH.  Scream pushes all these buttons by being a satire and a horror film in, it's own right, all at the same time.  
I will make this point: I WAS TRULY SCARED BY SCREAM.  No, I'm not a whimp, as another review stated you were if Scream scared you!  I have sat through all the horror classics other reviews reccommend over Scream like Halloween, The Exorcist, The Shining, The Ring, the original Haunting and Rosemary's Baby.  While I admire them all and think they're great films (with the exception of The Ring, which was just ok), none of them came CLOSE to scaring me the way Scream did.  
Maybe you ask why it is scary?  Because, in so many "killer" movies, the stalker just silently lumbers around at a slow pace and hacks everyone up.  In Scream, the killer now has a cell phone at their fingertips.  There was added thought to the script to have to put words in the killers mouth, truly chilling words.  And not only that, Scream's killer is very realistic because he/she/(don't want to give anything away) runs, trips, falls, and acts just plain old human.  Not only that, there is an uncanny sense of humor that the actor gave to the masked figure that makes you want to laugh and scream at the same time.
Also, SCREAM HAS SOME EXCELLENT ACTING IN IT!  People critize Rose Mcgraw, David Arquett..etc, but HELLO!  Did any of those harsh reviewers ever see the amazing performance Drew Barrymore gave in her opening scene?!  It was truly one of the most terrifying moments in horror history, and has rightly taken it's place among classic film scenes.  
Perhaps Scream should be rewarded most for reinventing the slasher genre.  In a time when the countless Halloween and Friday the 13th sequels were being made, along came Scream with its witty writing and stylish directing from Craven.  Also, at least Scream was smart enough to stop the sequels after number 3, to form a nice trilogy.  I believe that the saying goes "the highest form of flattery is reproducing a persons work."  Then, because of all the imitators that Scream gave birth too, there is a lot of praise it has received.