I just want to give a few thoughts on this movie rather than going into heavy detail about the plot...

Cold Creek Manor (2003) is a psychological horror movie that, when I was watching it, made me think of a movie such as Cape Fear.  A psycho guy is terrorizing a family.  This movie has elements of other horror movies mixed in as well.  This movie stars Sharon Stone, Dennis Quaid, Juliette Lewis, Stephen Dorff, Kristen Stewart, and Christopher Plummer.  It's pretty much an all-star cast.  The acting overall is pretty good, but I think Juliette Lewis and Kristen Stewart were the best actors.  Dennis Quaid was so-so.  The main problem with this movie is the large number of plot holes.  If you care to watch this movie, you'll see what I mean.  These plot holes will jump out at you.  I don't want to give away what they are.  No spoilers here.  Trust me - you'll be scratching your head and thinking, "Did that person just say what I think they did?", or, "I can't believe this is happening, because it doesn't make sense", or, "You've got to be kidding me."  But, I guess when it comes to thrillers and horror movies, plot holes can be forgiven.  However, I have a tougher time forgiving this movie's plot holes.  Maybe it's because it had a big budget and big stars.  Well, even big budget movies with big names can be subpar.

The musical score by Mike Figgis is fair.  Sometimes the music is a little cheesy sounding during exciting or suspenseful parts of the movie.  The ending of the movie isn't bad.  However, I found this movie SOOOOOO predictable.  I was sitting there predicting what would happen, and sure enough all my predictions came true.

The villain in this movie is a low-life redneck who's an ex-con, played by Stephen Dorff.  Dorff plays the part well.  The lead heroic characters (Quaid and Stone) to me come off as kind of stupid people who lack intelligence and common sense.  This movie definitely had potential, but the ridiculous plot holes and stupidity of the lead characters bring it down.

I can't give this movie a full recommendation, but if you're willing to take a chance on it as I did, you might feel like it was worthwhile.