1951 was a tense year in America.  Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were convicted of selling U.S. nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union.  In North Korea, truce negotiations failed.  McCarthyism reigned and Hollywood suffered as many of its key players were blacklisted.  It is no wonder, then, that the movie-going public sought lighter fare.  With its simple script, lush color, and innovative choreography, An American in Paris was just the ticket.
An American in Paris is the story of boy meets girl, boy gets girl-with not much in between.  Gene Kelly plays Jerry, an ex-GI trying to make a go of it as an artist in the city of artist's garrets and cheap cheese.  When he spots Lise (Leslie Caron) he knows instantly that she's the gal for him, and he sets about wooing and winning her, ignorant of the fact that she's dating Henri (Georges Guetary).  Complicating things (but not much) is his wealthy patroness  Milo (Nina Fochs).  Another ex-patriot, Adam (Oscar Levant), plays the fifth wheel, adding comic relief to a script that doesn't need it.  But people don't really watch this movie for the script, they watch it for the beautiful cinematography and the singing and dancing.  
The set design is gorgeously colorful, making Paris dangerously magnetic to anyone who might be making travel plans.  This is the Paris of sweet children seeking bubble-gum, kind elderly Parisian ladies who break into dance in cafes, a happy nightclub scene on clean stone streets, and of course lavish flowers, safe riverbanks, and Parisian churches.  It's a perfect setting for the score, which includes such songs as "Our Love is Here to Stay," "I Got Rhythm" (sung by Kelly with a team of little urchins), and "'S Wonderful".  And the dancing is.  Quite wonderful, culminating in a 17-minute ballet (choreographed by Kelly) at the climax.  That things resolve just a little too quickly and easily thereafter will bother no dance fan-and all the moviewatchers who have a low tolerance for song-and-dance will have been flushed out of the room long before then.
An American in Paris was Leslie Caron's first American film, shot when she was a just-turned 18.  Her inexperience with movie making shows on the screen as kind of a gamine innocence and plays well with Kelly's confident American mien.  The chemistry of all cast members (or should I say "the troupe") coalesces to make this musical a don't-miss.  4 stars for the average movie watcher; 5 if you're a big fan of dance.