After seeing the original production, produced in Japan, I was amazed at the contrast between the original and this Hollywood version knockoff.  Hollywood failed to deliver anything decent, despite the well made original movie they started with. This original story is tasteful, timeless and offers characters we can identify with.

This plastic, Hollywood version of the same film showcases yet another uninspiring, typical Hollywood mysogyny mess filled with little more than the usual unmatched market-centered mediocrity.

The Hollywood lead is the usual 'star' stud.  He pretends to be a middle aged, professionally advantaged, well-monied power monger who is bored with his life of excess and ease.  He decides to amuse himself and begins his clandestine diversions behind his wife's back.  He ventures into the ghetto, away from his peers and associates.  Here he enjoys slumming on the sly, in hot persuit of his target: a trashy, morally bankrupt, trampy, immature, barely legal dance teacher.  Their lines and interactions are vitriolicly vile in thier predictable, prepackaged, perverse platitudes.

This original Japanese story gives far better.  Here is a man who is struggling to find meaning in a life filled with an emptiness he can't quite grasp. This original story isn't wonderlust, this is a shared sense of loss, futility, and disappointment that we can connect with.

Hollywood plot changes aside, the casting choices were wrong.  Lopez gives the role a crass cheapness that crudely removes the ramining hints of class, elegance or distinction from the already disfigured indignity by Hollywood upon the original storyline.

Here is a fine example of a beautiful story gone to hell in the hands of Hollywood.

Hollywood doesn't make too many 'movies', mostly are little more than glorified infomercials, airbrushed extensions of playboy, and mindless marketing campaigns with idiotic dialog full of auditory advertisements and strict adherance to the "sex sells" standard.  I'd rather not support human objectification and sexual degradation in any form (no matter how subtle).

My advice: Watch the Japanese original version of the film and forget about this remade wreck.

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/6304798466">Shall We Dance? [VHS</a>]