I remember the first time I saw Clueless. It was at my friends house, She loved the movie, and told me I just had to see it.. And although being young and impatient, I liked the movie. A few years later, I saw the movie again, and liked it even more. And just last week, I bought it! This hilarious movie is about a beautiful, popular, shopaholic girl named Cher Horowitz (played wonderfully by Alicia Silverstone), who lives in a mansion in Beverly Hills. She is basically the most popular girl in school along with her friend Dionne (Stacey Dash). Well, after gettting a C in her debate class from her boring, lifeless teacher, Mr. Hall (Wallace Shawn) she decides that she should make him happy in some way. So she sets him up with another teacher named Ms. Geist (Twink Caplan), and her matchamaking skills work, because both of the teachers fall in love. While being in a good "Helping Out Everyone" mood, she carries on her good will for the new girl at school Tai (Brittany Murphy), and gives her a very good makeover, and also tries to set Tai up with a guy at school named Elton. Cher thought her plan was working, but after the Val party, her opion changed. Elton was actually into her, not Tai, and he came on to Cher, but Cher told him to back off, and she got out of the car. While in the middle of nowhere, Cher gets held at gun point, and gets her purse stolen, and has to rely on her ex-stepbrother Josh (Paul Rudd). Then Cher falls for the new guy at school named Christian, but then she finds out that he's gay (which to me is like "CHER OPEN YOUR EYES!!! HOW COULD THIS GUY BE STRAIGHT?") and there are clues throughout the movie that he is gay, like the movies he takes over to Cher's; Some Like it Hot and Sparticus (which Cher called Sparaticus). Tai ends up falling for Josh, and Cher finds out, and tells Tai that she dose't think they "mesh well" together and Tai gets mad at her. Well Cher actually finds out that she loves Josh. and that's why she couldn't stand to see him and Tai together. Cher feels so bad about everything she decides to give herslef a makeover, but not the physical kind, the makeover for her soul. So she volunteers for the Pismo Beach Relief fund and donates a ton of stuff. Her and Tai make up, Mr. Hall and Ms. Geist get married...the end. If you haven't seen this movie, WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU? Rent it, or buy it today, it's awesome!