This movie treads that ever so warn road of the evil mummy, and how warn it is too. A subject that is simply an old richual for its leaders is as  ever manipulated into Hollywood using an evil mummy to exploit that ever  mythical idea that mummies are nasty things that walk with out-stretched  arms.
To be fair this is a good adaptation of the whole Egypt subject,  yet while it is extremely pleasing on the eye, it is very difficult to  follow this as it seems to rely on coincidence far more than just the odd  scene. The effects are big budget and fantastic, and to go with it the  acting is, in the main, brilliant. British stars who are more known in  their native England for TV roles - John Hannah and Rachel Weisz - are as  ever good performers, though the lead from Brendan Fraser is at times  wooden.
The script is basic, and very predictable, if you can't guess  what is gonna happen most the way through - then it will be a surprise. In  the nick of time lives are saved, sure death situations find Fraser  escaping, and rather cheesily the bad mummy is defeated and the guy gets  the girl at the end. No surprises there then.
The movie is by no means  all bad - it has a quirky script, and original character settings and the  it generally ties together well as a plot, despite being far-fetched this  is just for a bit of fun, for we all know mummies will not just appear. The  kind of holes in this though are clear, and a good example is when the town  is bombed and you see buildings destroyed - yet at the end, they are  magically all pristine again - could this be the ever present magic of the  mummy, or something we are supposed to miss as they create the typical  idyllic ending for the relationship ending.
Basicallyt his is a no  surprises film, which is easily predictable and rather cheesy in the route  it takes. It is a subject matter that is interpreted in a manipulated way  to create a good versus bad situation as realism goes out the wondow. To be  fair, if you select this kind of topic realism is never going to be key.  For all its low points on the topic and plot, it does hang well together,  and the acting is in the main good, and the story is not laboured and  despite sitting there crossing off every cheesy manoeuver and coincidence,  this is at least pleasing to watch in general, and the subject matter of  Egypt is interesting. Not something to expect much from, and not really  something to get excited about, but if you like a run of the mill big  budget movie you'll at least enjoy the movie - although you will spot all  through the formula that is used far too often in recent years......!