This film seems to be promoting abortion and contraception as the cures to pain and suffering and prevention of street children(and adults). Is this yet another attempt by the Liberal Brainwashing Agenda?!
It seems that if abortion had not been prevented during this certain time period then these children would not be on the street. Guess what!? It's not that simple.
Why is there no mention of the true reasons for these tragic street children?
Alcohol and the subsequent abuse of it is largely at the root of this problem. The children state that their parents get drunk and become abusive. That is the reason, maybe excuse, for many of these children running away from their homes.
Why does the film not begin with a statement about the evils of alcohol?!
Why are these children allowed to run the street like this?
Is there any mention of the fact that Godless Communism ran this country for decades and set the foundation for what transpires today?
Here the film ignores another fact for the benefit of the Lib Agenda. Churches and Christian Religion attempt to care for widows and orphans in this world. Christianity, in its truest and best form, has infused societies and cultures with ideas of compassion, mercy, and love. These same values inspire many liberals, even though the Lib Agenda is trying to eradicate Christianity, paradoxically supporting Islam!. Get real.
This film would have done better in sending it's message by having a Christian perspective. These heathen leftist communists are too shallow and misled.
This film is not for the squeamish or person who doesn't want to be disturbed. It's violent and horrifying.
Good people should not turn their backs to difficult and unjust realities as portrayed here. However, it is a deeply complex and difficult problem to be dealt with.
Part of the "solution" if there be such, is to be honest and wise about the true causes of street children as well as adults.
Truly, contraception and intelligence applied to the sex act is foremost. There is a sickness in a man or woman that demands intercourse with the subsequent risk of pregnancy when there is no desire for children and no wherewithal to afford it.
Abortion is a last-ditch effort and it is still NOT ACCEPTABLE OR DESIREABLE!
The idea of abortion as promoted by the Lib Agenda and Democrat Party in the US is perverted and evil.
Abortion should be safely available to females who have a true need for it and the parents of the aborted baby should be held responsible on at least a legal level for causing a baby to be killed. Abortion is not a nifty way out of a lifestyle promoted by the Lib Agenda: sexual promiscuity and destruction of the traditional family unit.