This wrestlemania was really awesome! Here's what you get.

Lillian Garcia is back once again in WWE and she sings "America the Beautiful" better than anybody I've ever seen!

Daniel Bryan vs. Sheamus - World Title - This match was only 18 seconds, I was hoping that we would get a decent match out of these two, espescially since we didn't get much of one between these two at WM 27, but for better or worse Wrestlemania 28 starts with a bang! 1/5

Kane vs. Randy Orton - This match was not bad but nothing special, this match could easily happen on Smackdown and it would be a good match, but for WM it's nothing special 2/5

Cody Rhodes vs. Big Show - Intercontinental Title - There are a few good spots in this match from Cody Rhodes but it's nothing special either. Big Show wins 2/5

Beth Phoenix/Eve vs. Kelly Kelly/Maria Monenus - Divas Tag Match - They say on commentary that Maria actually had 2 cracked ribs and her foot was messed up from dancing with the stars, in that case she did a lot despite the injuries. This match is like the diva matches we've had over the last year, meh, but this match was definetly better than I expected. Double stinkface!!! 2/5

Triple H vs. Undertaker - Hell in a Cell - Now Wrestlemania picks up, and picks up big! This match was absolutely awesome, much better than the No Holds Barred Battle last year and we get to see a little blood! OMFG! But this match was very violent with chair shorts definetly in the double digits, this match was great and is worth the price of the dvd/blu-ray. 5/5

Team Teddy vs. Team Johnny - This match was an out of control demolition derby at times, which is exactly what I wanted, along with having some time for some great in-ring time. I would have liked to see this match go a little longer, but they get a lot out of this match. 3/5

CM Punk vs. Chris Jericho - WWE Title - This was the match I really wanted to see and this match was the best of the night in my opinion. It was a great WERESTLING match and these two matched up counter-for-counter and so forth. Fantastic match! 5/5

I laughed so hard when Brodus Clay comes out in a big dance number with a bunch of mommas!!!

John Cena vs. Rock - This was the match I expected, Cena finisher here, Rock finisher here, kick out, kick out, Rock Bottom, win. This match wasn't the best on the card but was definetly worth watching. 3/5