No stars actually...

Advertised as a race car movie, a spoof on Americana; once again the producers  suggesting something you won't find.

Just about into the center of the film you're introduced to Will's big challenge, the homesexual star driver, and then the film and the driving all revolves around this plot twist...which we should expect by now. It's been slipped into so many films and TV's shows, uninvited and certainly unwanted by many.

This is not about race car driving and it's not a family movie. Advertised as a family movie but with the homosexual message at it's center. This time it's the, you'll-like-us-better-if-you-laugh-with-us, message.  Foul mouthed selfish kids, ego tripped Dad, Bombshell Mom mocking or typifying The Nascar race car circuit, take your pick.  Ferrell, a campy star status American Nascar winner, his opponent betting kisses, excitedly gushing his passions about men and winning races is joined by his entourage of extravagences. Ferrell is equally gushing over his wife on top of  the dinner table in front of Grandpa and the kids. Fickel Mom leaves when Dad loses, Dad finds new girlfriend ASAP who both agree Mom  was the real failure so she can't come back now that Dad's winning again. Dad will raise his boys with a new woman who's not their Mom, but can help raise these tyranical kids who practice insults, four letter words and  are mean to everyone until the last 10 minutes when Grandma sets them straight. Though we're not sure why the directors made the effort to include the 10 minutes of constructive famiy values after 112 minutes of bashing. Once again the ratings in their ignorance actually believe that no one would dislike homosexuals, that people are only 'afraid' of them.

Those who laugh long may get excited to recognize themselves chugging soda's and enjoying Domono's pizza. I can only imagine the joy of thinking you've been personally recognized when your favorite products-there are many- pop up just like on a computer screen.

If  what a person laughs at reveals their character then this is the character test you've been waiting for. Everything and everyone, Mom's, Dad's,  rotten children, money,homosexuals,  American's, French, sex, porno films, and Jesus are all mocked and everyone paid to...is laughing. But not the ones who paid... for it. Vote with your dollar, get the full plot first, don't let them take your money and make you pay for their messages which in this case you will also finally get to pay for advertising. You heard me right.