80-76%-perfect

75-71%-awsome

70-66%good

65-61%-poor

60-56%-awful

1. The Godfather & D'Lo Brown vs. The Big Bossman & Bull Buchanan- this wa sproboly not the best choice as a wrestlemania opener. Not saying this is a bad match i just would not have these four start it out. Good music by Ice-T, the Alabama boyz before the match. SOild tag match and may have been to long just a soild wrestling match and not alot to sya. WInners Bigbossman and Bull Buchannan.

2. 15 Minute Hardcore Championship Battle Royal

champ Crash vs. Tazz vs. Head Bangers vs. A.P.A vs. Kainetia vs. Viscera vs. Hardcore Holly vs. Mean Street Posse- This was a nice way to back up just an okay start to a wrestlemnaia. LOts of hardcore action in this including a boxed fan, a couple of paddles, a shopping cart, a fire extinguisher, some kendo sticks, some trash cans and trash can lids, a glass jar, and more than a fair share of street signs and cookie sheets. Lots of blood as well and lots of title changes. No wrestling at all but deffenitly surved it purpose. WInner and new wwe hardcore champ Hardcore HHolly. Match Rating 7.5/10.

3. TNA w/ Trish Stratus vs. Steve Blackman and Al Snow w/ Head Cheese- This match remided me of the first match it was just okay and i think it runned a little to long for a wrestlemania card. Not a whoile lot of talent in the ring but it was not to awful more of a filler. Winners TNA. Match Rating 6/10.

4. Dudley Boys vs. Hardy Boys vs. Edge and Chrisitan in a triangle ladder match for the wwe tag team titles- This was match of the night in my opioion and could have been considered a MOTY canidate. Non stop action all around. SOme sick part were jeff hardy did a swaton bomb off of a 20 foot ladder and crashed thropugh buuba ray was on a table. Lots of other table parst including one were devon jumps off a ladder and crashes through a table. ALso near the end matt hardy takes a sick fall off a ladder throguh a tbale give it up for all three teams awsome stuff. WInner and new wwe tag team champs Edge and Christian. MAtch Rating 9.5/10.

5. Terri vs. The Kat Cat Fight with Val Venis as Special Referee- This was a toital watse of time but at the same time i can see why this was put in here. This was an entertainment facxtor and it was a good way to cool the crowd down after that good match. One thing i can say is both women looked good and i will give them two points for that. Winner the kat. Match Rating 2/10.

6. The Radicalz vs. - This was another decnent tag match. at this point in the night i was sick of the tag matches so i really could not get into it being it was already the forth of the night but besides htat the match was soild. I really like the radicals and the story between chyna and eedie was good. Not a bad match. WInners Chyna & Too Cool. Match Rating 6/10.

7. Chris Jericho vs. Chris Benoit vs. Kurt Angle ("Euro-Continental" champion Two-Falls Match for the Intercontinental/European Championships- This was a great mid card match. I was hoping for a little more out of this match but it was just fine. If u are  looking for 3 mid carders you can look right here and you wont find any better three. This was a good 18 minute match and was placed well in with the card lots of fast paced action and techinal wrestling good stuff. WInners and new  Intercontinental/European Championships Chris Jericho vs. Chris Benoit. Match Rating 8/10.

8. ROad DOg and X-Pac vs. Rikish an kane- THis was another decent tag match. I was really worn down of tag matches as i think this one was already the forth of the night anyway it was okay not real good stuff but there is a funny pete rose moment were he gets stink faced. WInners Kane and RIkishi. Match Rating 6/10.

9. HHH w/Stephanie Mcmahon vs. The Rock w/ Mr. Mcmahon vs. Big Show w/Shane Mcmahon vs. Mick Foley w/ Linda Mcmahon for the wwe title in a elemintaion match- This was a soild main event. I really liked the elmintaion fatcor. The elemintions were kind of predicatble but it did not take away from the match. Big show was first to go. After that really good stuff chairs trash cans barb wire and table spots. Hrd to see foley leve. Than a soild finish between HHH and the rock lots of near falls and a huge turn at the end. Winner and still wwe champ HHH. Match Rating 9/10.

Well that raps up another. I would give wrestlemania 2000 a grade of 60/90 which is a 66% which means this is a good ppv. I think that would sum it up. Not htat bad of a wrestlemania but not an awsome one some great matches on this card but alot of fillers. If u can tell me if my review was helpful or not i would appreicate that thanks for your time.