I don't even know where to begin with this one. This is my least favorite out of these movies, making it the black sheep of the DCU family. I'm not a particularly big fan of anime, so when I heard this was going to be done in 5 different styles, I was less than excited. This is even my least favorite Batman movie (yes Batman/movie fans, I hold "Batman & Robin" in much higher regard than this) and that's a difficult thing for me to say as Batman is my favorite DC hero.

The movie is actually made up of six short stories that are loosely connected and supposedly take place between "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight". The first is a rehash of "The New Batman Adventures" episode "Legends of the Dark Knight" (which is far superior to what we get here) in which Four street urchins depict Batman in a different way and each is more ridiculous than the last, the only one I think that even matches Batman is the "living shadow" (though Robot Batman looked cool). Then at the end when the real one shows up, his legs are smaller than his entire upper body! He should be falling over from being misproportioned. The animation in this segment is easily my least favorite and the movie wouldn't have suffered without it. The rest of the animation at least resembles each other but not by much. The second story deals with Det. Crispus Allen and Anna Ramirez arguing over if Batman is doing any good for the city only for them to wind up in a shoot out between Sal Maroni and a gang of Russians. It's better than part one but the animation is annoying, especially when everybody but the cops and Batman look like zombies. I also hate that eye quivering thing or whatever that shows that people are scared. I just find it annoying. Part three is Batman testing out a bullet deflector and its actually my favorite part of the film, showing why Batman puts his life on the line over protecting his body with a fancy gadget. The animation is great but Bruce Wayne looks a little too feminine for my taste. Part four has Batman going up against Killer Croc and Scarecrow in the sewers of Gotham. Its a pretty cool segment, building on to that Scarecrow is still on the loose from "Batman Begins". Part five has an injured Batman finding all these guns in the sewer while recounting his training in India. Last, part six is Batman vs. Deadshot. Yeah that's part six in a nutshell. Other than the multitude of different anime styles, my other gripe is the continuity. The stories do have a small connection but it isn't enough for me to connect point A to point B. In chapter three, we see the Nolan Batmobile. Yet in chapter 5, we see the Burton Batmobile. This is where the movie failed in my opinion. Instead of having it stand on its own, like the others DCU films do, they try and present it as the "middle story" set in the universe of Batman Begins and The Dark Knight. But other than a few references to Begins, the connection is lost. Like the animation style, they should've picked one story and developed it from there.

Anime is great for those who love it and everything but Batman and the other superheroes shouldn't, in my opinion anyway, be done that way. I wouldn't have minded it as much if it was just done in one style, but even then, I find following the action sequences a little hard to follow. All the fast cuts and characters jumping around make it dizzying and confusing. Its also a little distracting to go from one segment where Alfred is bald to another where he has a full head of hair. Batman (especially in parts 2, 3 and 6), Scarecrow and Deadshot look great while Killer Croc doesn't even remotely resemble anything from how he's been interpreted before. He looks like a glob of fat with fangs.

But what really makes this boring movie great is the voice cast. Everyone does great (though I pity Corey Burton as Scarecrow because I can barely understand anything he's saying) but the one who saves this is none other than Kevin Conroy, the undisputed voice of Batman. Since this was released in 2008, it had been a little over two years since Batman fans had heard him do the voice so when it was announced that he was doing it again, I was very excited. He really makes those lip flaps look like their mouths are forming actual words.

If it weren't for being a fan of the Batman character, I probably would've rented it over outright buying it but fortunately, out of the eight DCU films, this is the only one I really didn't like.