I deliberately held off for as long as I could with this one. However, a new Wes Anderson film does have its attraction. He does have that particular niche for making films that look and feel foreign. Though I wouldn't neccesarily call myself a fan. The only accomplished film I believe Anderson has made thus far is 'Rushmore'. I was 14 years old and a Freshman in high school when it opened in theaters. I loved it, and I still love it. It holds up pretty well even by today's standards. Dare I call it a classic? Perhaps.

Still, that was 10 years ago and since then, Anderson has dished out 3 films, all creative and quirky. Yet, none have been able to match 'Rushmore's' fresh wit and involving characters. 'The Royal Tenenbaums' was ice cold and distant. 'The Life Aquatic' was . . . well, you can read my review on that.

Suprisingly, 'The Darjeeling Limited' turns out to be his best film since 'Rushmore'. You can tell that it comes from a personal place and you can really get a feel for at least one of the main characters. Adrien Brody, in my opinion, was the better of the three. His entire persona from his physical attributes to his emotional attributes were the most developed. Either that or he's simply just a better actor than Schwartzman and Wilson-probably both. The film definitely has a sort of charm to it. The exotic setting doesn't hurt either.

The problem with 'The Darjeeling Limited' is similar to the problems in 'The Royal Tenenbaums' and 'The Life Aquatic'. It's just too self-concience of itself. Anderson, along with his co-writers, somtimes make dialogue and scenes so intentionaly off-kilter that it becomes difficult for the audience to feel a real connection with the characters. If 'The Darjeeling Limited' were a person, it would be a too-proud, artisticly talented, loner who pushes people away. Lets just say the person would have some definite issues to work out much like how this film does.

Now, I'm probably going to get attacked-it seems I always do when it comes to criticizing Wes Anderson. I know a lot of people revere him and his films as genius. Perhaps it's becuase the Criterion Collection seems to think so. So I will only say this: There are a lot of writers who are better directors and there are directors who are better writers. It's a rarity that you find both. I feel that Wes Anderson is a better director than he is a writer. Interestingly enough, it seems that Anderson is simply unable to write a film by himself. He hasn't yet and probably never will, and that could be our loss. We know his directing style so well but the voice of his films (after 'Rushmore') are weak and need some strengthening muscle to better them.

'The Darjeeling Limited' is definitely a nice rebound from 'The Life Aquatic'. He's on the right track. I have faith in him that he'll come out with a film that will really blow all of us away. Until then, I'll wait patiently.
**1/2