This marks the first time Dreamworks animation has let me down. I believe the purpose of fictional films is to have people 'temporarily suspend their disbelief,' but in this film, things just went from unbelievable to ludicrous. The movie would've been fine if it had followed the idea of Barry's wish to fly and explore or whatever, to rebel against the natural order of bees. At first, I thought the film was heading in a similar plot line to Antz which I thought would've been lazy, but after watching the film all the way through, I think following such a plot would've been better off. What I really disliked about this movie's structure is its quick jump away from a sensible plot. Out of impulse, Barry decides to go gather pollen. I found it odd that none of the bees questioned this 'unnatural' behavior and the flyers that appeared to be the 'bully' type in an earlier scene never really follow through on their supposed character. In fact that whole scene with Barry lying to the girl bees about his flying experience should have been deleted as it added nothing to the plot. Next comes a plot involving Barry falling in love with a human woman; bad? yes! Still, the plot changes again for the worst when Barry who apparently knows about coffee, learns that humans are selling honey in stores. Now he boldly states that he plans to sue the human race; ridiculous? Yes! At this point, I told myself, OK, this bee is just making a rash claim. Sadly, I was wrong; not only does he follow through, but his human friend actually helps him and what's more, the humans actually do have a trial for this bee. Suddenly it is perfectly natural for a bee to talk and sue people. Another note I'd like to make is how simple they make it for bees to talk to humans. All they have to do is address them, no clever explanation as to why they avoid talking to humans or how they came to learn the English language never mind the fact that they should really have to shout to be heard with such tiny bodies. Now I understand the movie's fictional and with that I can forgive some unbelievable events presented in the movie, but there is a limit as to how far I will accept it. That point was reached when they held trial for the bee and it was crossed by a mile when a group of bees managed to lift a plane. From the beginning of the whole lawsuit and onwards I kept telling myself that the bee was dreaming all of this nonsense and would wake up eventually... he never woke up. Even a kid's movie should have some credible story structure to capture an audience without them scoffing and muttering 'ludicrous' or 'completely unbelievable.' This movie was just a bunch of nonsense. I have heard great things about Seinfeld, but this movie is hands down the worst Dreamworks animation I've seen. So, to conclude, if you're looking for a movie with a story similar to Antz or A Bug's Life, do not choose this film for there is no real story, just a bunch of nonsense. However, if you like nonsense, this is right up your alley.