After making the classic and thoroughly joyous rock-jam film The Last Waltz with marvelous `guest' performances from Joni Mitchell, Van Morrison, Muddy Waters, Eric Clapton, Neil Young backing up The Band & good friend Robbie Robertson, Martin Scorsese took a two-year break from moviemaking, during which he was wed and divorced to actress Isabella Rossellini.  Their falling out left him in a state of deep depression, from which 1980's Raging Bull emerged.  Like Travis Bickle's gruesome homicidal explosion at the end of Scorsese's modern-urban-Dostoyevskian masterpiece Taxi Driver (1976), making Raging Bull was Scorsese's personal catharsis, which he apparently used to empty every negative and self-destructive aspect of himself onto celluloid.

Shot in stark, merciless black-and-white to reproduce the urban grittiness of Little Italy circa 1940, Scorsese's film pays tribute to champion boxer Jake La Motta's primitiveness.  Much like British director Mike Leigh's movie Naked (1993), Scorsese presents a reprehensible, brutal main character sympathetically, as if his paranoid, cruel and violent behavior is utterly beyond his control - as if it's the corrupt society in which the character lives which deserves the blame for this abhorrent behavior, but certainly not the character (or the simple-minded storytellers).  It's the old `absolute product of the environment' dramatic scheme which argues against the existence of characters' having any access whatsoever to personal choice; Jake La Motta is Scorsese's embodiment of the human being as total animal, nothing more, who behaves solely as `nature' dictates.

Stylistically, Scorsese's self-described "kamikaze" style of filmmaking, of throwing himself at the material, here bears both the exhilarating highs and wretched lows of free-writing.  The boxing sequences are the greatest ever put on film: Scorsese's camera pinwheels, pirouettes, dollies in and counter-dollies, and he has Oscar-winning editor Thelma Schoonmaker provide ample freeze frames, slowdowns and speed-ups of the footage; all to create a searingly Expressionist depiction of La Motta's destroy-or-be-destroyed P.O.V. in the ring.  (Frank Warner's sound design in particular helps to lend the sequences an added bit of surrealism: for example, when La Motta bears down on Sugar Ray Robinson, the shrieks of a condor closing in on its prey can be heard in the background.)

Yet in the dramatic sections, the film is bland, stale, stagnant.  Scenes drag on endlessly, like dialogues in a later Kubrick film; only Scorsese uses improvisation, and gets repetition and anticlimax.  (That anticlimax is all too literal when De Niro pours a pitcher of ice water (!) down his boxer shorts right after fooling around with girlfriend Vicki (the stellar Cathy Moriarty) - La Motta's got a fight coming up, and he wants the additional tension of sexual frustration to use as fuel in the ring.)  Self-pity suffuses Raging Bull, and is actually its unstated (and very likely unconscious) central theme.  Scorsese's and star Robert De Niro's concept of Jake's character is a strictly one-note affair: Robert De Niro's monotonous, quasi-autistic performance as La Motta says over and over again, "I'm dumb, I don't know any better, therefore I deserve your sorrow."  This `new' form of non-acting was awarded with the Best Actor Oscar of 1980 (an honor that De Niro deserved infinitely more for his extraordinary performance as the haunted Travis Bickle five years earlier, which still stands next to Brando in Last Tango in Paris, Orson Welles in Citizen Kane, Daniel Day-Lewis in My Left Foot, etc., as perhaps one of the twenty greatest performances in movie history).

While Joe Pesci as Jake's brother Joey is individually funny, charismatic and winning, his scenes with De Niro go nowhere; he says something, then De Niro asks him to repeat what he just said.  Also, the movie's ending is beyond ponderous: after Vicky, then his wife, finally comes to her senses and ditches him (looooong after we've started rooting for her to do so), La Motta winds up in a lousy nightclub, telling lousy jokes.  (It wasn't enough for us to see his lousy behavior, so we've got to be witness to his lousy sense of humor too?)  Whether or not these scenes are genuinely biographical is irrelevant; they aren't dramatic, because there's no conflict, no sense of going anywhere...which very unfortunately might be Scorsese's ultimate, self-indulgently depressive point.  We have here a movie where mundanity itself is the subject, a movie which prefers to childishly implore for the audience's sympathies in regards to its self-defeatism, rather than intelligently deal with its issues.  Jake doesn't want inner health, he hasn't the vaguest notion of what that means - he wants power and control, and when he doesn't have it he cries like a baby and pounds his head against a wall.  Scorsese's lingering on him screaming "I'm not an animal!" again and again isn't visually psychologically fascinating, it's the definition of cinematically banal (and maybe the most overwrought temper tantrum in movie history).  It's the visual equivalent of Scorsese the movie-director-who-also-wanted-to-be-a-priest grisly administering himself lashings as penance, with us the audience as his spectators.  (If you happen to be a secular movie viewer, as I am, the sight of all this gratuitous, almost medieval self-flagellation and punishment can be an especially head-scratching and unpleasant experience.)

Raging Bull has been acclaimed one of the twenty greatest movies in history by most of the major critics' and directors' polls (Sight and Sound, etc.), and it's proven to have been deeply influential to future generations of moviemakers.  Whether or not that influence has produced movies of quality is open to debate; personally, I think Raging Bull's unique and very unfortunate aesthetic combination of chaotic-urban-emptiness-as-divine-holiness has inspired as many terrible and amateurish takes on this theme (think the majority of Abel Ferrara's movie career) as Tarantino's profoundly more entertaining Pulp Fiction later did for the ironically-wisecracking-hitman genre.  Some moviegoers may indeed pray at screenings of Raging Bull, but I think they're bowing their heads to a false idol.  To me, Raging Bull is nowhere near as thematically imaginative or psychologically complex - or directorially and cinematically ingenious - as Scorsese's Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, The Last Temptation of Christ, GoodFellas, The Aviator, or his brilliant short `Life Lessons' from the New York Stories movie anthology.  It's these works, plus his masterful documentaries The Last Waltz, My Personal Journey Through American Movies, My Voyage To Italy and the recent No Direction Home: Bob Dylan, that stand as the very finest examples of Scorsese's most vital, creative, passionate and rewarding work in the movies.