WHAT'S THE 411 ON THIS MOVIE?

I'm an avid fan of sch-fi /horror movies and TV shows! I just caught wind of this movie not too long ago, and wanted to see it, since I haven't seen it at the time. I just happened to watch it last night.

Since I have a huge collection of sco-fi movies that date back to the early '50s, I thought well, one more sci-fi film wouldn't hurt. I find this film to be reminiscent of the old '50s classic Invation of the Body Snatchers as well as both '70s films Close Encounters of the Third Kind and Polderguiest where aliens decend on earth to try to take over the population and disguise themselves as normal human beings!

WHAT IS THE STORY LINE?

The story line begins with Charlie Sheen (from the TV sitom Two and a Half Men) playing radio astronmer Zane Zaminsky who has a ton of radio / satelite equipment and believes that he's picked up cosmic noises that signal the possibility of extra terrestrial intelligence. He investigates further to make sure that his findings are accurate.

He then turns the tape over to his boss Phil Gordian (played by Ron Silver) who then fires him. He demands it back, but he doesn't get it back. His girlfriend (Teri Polo) gets transfered and his partner is found dead from a supposed suicide. And after being denied access to the labratory grounds, Zane breaks through the securiy cofinements of the place with his truck anyway to try to do some investigating of his own. After finding out what he wants to know, he heads back to the house to do some more reseach. Strange noises coming from his window has him suspecting that he's being watched. He is startled by someone making a little noise outside! It's Kiki who has been spying on him!

Enter Kiki; an Afro-American street-wise smart-mouth 13-year-old boy who is making smirky remarks and lives next door (played by Tony T. Johnson, who also was the nosey getting-into-everyone's- business, asking-nosey- questions smart-mouthed smirky-comment-spewing little boy Chris who lives next door to Deacon Earnest Frye in the TV sitcom Amen). After being told by Zane to wait downstairs, Kiki somehow sneaks upstairs to the lab room and  wants to know what's going on and why Zane is so wrapped up in his research on the possibility that aliens may be invading Earth. So when Kiki bombards Zane with a mountain of questions, Zane has no choice but to let the always nosey and curious but crazy and friendly Kiki work with him for a while because he was afraid that Kiki might blow his cover.

Zane's desparate search for answers leads him to Mexico and into a mysterious power plant, generating more than just electricity and is run by people who are not what they appear to be. He then gets arrested for the murder of a scientist (Lindsay Crouse) while investigating an impending ecological disaster.

Back at home, Zane finds out that his lab room in the attic has been mysteriously robbed of his equipment and happens to see Kiki again. He and his female assistant goes back over to the huge satelite dish with Kiki in tow behind them.

Zane learns the sad truth about Kiki having become an alien when Kiki stares at him mysteriously,then he stops trying to help him and gives the tape to Phil instead.

When they are attacked by the people disguised as aliens, the lab there begins to self-destruct and the giant satelite dish begins to callapse seemingly with Zane and his assistant trying to run for their lives!

There's a shot of Kiki from behind standing outside watching. As they manage to escape the collapsing satelite dish, they notice Kiki staring at then again. Angered and disappointed because Kiki turned his back on him on him, Zane gives him a message to take back to the other aliens. Kiki then bends his knees and hips backward (into his alien configuration) and then he runs off into the surrounding dessert.

Can they save earth from being taken over by these hostile alians? Who will rise and who will fall? Who's mind will be poison and taken over by the aliens?

Tony T. Johnson adds a bit of eccentric humor and comedy to the movie with his street-smart talking and smirky remarks. Just about ALL of his roles in TV and films has him making sarcastic smirky remarks and belittling,treating adults as though he's more superior to them than they are!!

Not particularly fond of the ending though. Would have given the film 5 stars if not for the unhappy ending. I was very disappointed with the way that it turned out, but at least no one else was killed. But I'll let YOU decide.

~Daquan13.