The Western genre is one of the oldest movie genres in Hollywood. It started out with the silent films, the Tom Mix movies, all through the great John Wayne films, the Jimmy Stewart-Anthony Mann masterpieces, up until the time when the Western almost ceased to be a genre, because most of the moviegoing audiences had moved on to other Hollywood fare. But it was the success of such movies as "Pale Rider" and "Silverado" in the 80s that really brought the Western back to American theaters. Now perhaps that success has not exactly spilled over to today's movies, but the Western is still a revered genre and an art-form. It was those same feelings and that genuine likeability for the Western genre that caused "Lonesome Dove" to become such a hit. Also because of the fact that there are countless reviews from critics and fans that had never particularly liked Westerns in general, but they were the same ones that absolutely loved "Lonesome Dove".

The story starts off with two retired Texas Rangers, Augustus McCrae and Woodrow F. Call, who are also long-time best friends. McCrae (Robert Duvall) is a rascal through-and-through, but not without the emotion needed to appreciate the good things about life. Call (Tommy Lee Jones) is a much more buttoned-up and reserved character, serving as the perfect foil for Duvall's McCrae. Call and McCrae run The Hat Creek Cattle Company, in the basically deserted town of Lonesome Dove, Texas. However, this company does not get much business at all, allowing McCrae to have more than enough time to be lazy and loaf around, which sets the stage for some hilarious scenes with Duvall and Jones. An old friend and fellow Ranger of theirs, Jake Spoon (Robert Urich) shows up, with plenty of wonderful things to say about that faraway place known as Montana. McCrae is content to stay in Lonesome Dove, but Jake's words ignite something in Call's mind, and before long, he can think of nothing else but starting a cattle ranch in Montana. McCrae thinks Call is purely out of his mind to want to start another long adventure, especially considering that the world seemingly no longer accepts them as they are. But Call manages to convince McCrae to come along, and thus begins the epic journey.

"Lonesome Dove" is a classic on so many levels. Like most classic films, the miniseries seems to know that it is an epic - that it is destined to become something great. This aspect is shown most significantly with the cast. All the cast members, from the ones with large speaking roles to the ones with only a few lines, seem to instantly understand the profound depth and raw emotion of the story, and therefore channel that into their own performances. Literally every scene is beautiful, purely character-driven, emotionally intense, dramatically real; even the opening credits evoke that peculiar feeling that the viewer is in for a heck of an experience. Since "Lonesome Dove" is an absolute character piece, every actor or actress must be well-chosen and their performance must be acted to the best of that person's ability. There are, of course, the aforementioned Duvall, Jones, and Urich, all of whom having talent that is nothing short of fantastic. But also worth mentioning are the likewise majestic performances of the remaining cast. Each character has something of importance and depth to bring to every scene in which they appear - Rick Schroder as the fatherless and confused Newt, Danny Glover as the steadfast scout Deets, Diane Lane as the gorgeous bad-girl-with-a-heart-of-gold, Frederic Forrest as the evil half-breed Blue Duck, Chris Cooper as the inexperienced but compassionate July Johnson - the list goes on and on. This criteria is the same for all the storylines, as well. Each of the storylines is effective, and they all tie-in together excellently, with not one of them being left out. There has been some debate over whether the secondary storyline, with July Johnson searching for his ever-fleeing wife, is really necessary. As a matter of fact, it is more than necessary - it is essential. July's story contributes to the main plot, but these story intersections are never obvious or contrived.

The story, to put it simply, very easily and firmly captures the feel of the Old West, both as it was in its prime and in its passing-on. That really is one of the main themes of the story - as time passes on, things and people become different and grow old; change is inevitable in this view of the West. All of the characters, in their own way, realize that they must change with the times and situations surrounding them, and that if they don't, they might as well just stop living, because there truly is no other way. This point is very clearly presented with the terrific ending montage. As Woodrow remembers all that has happened during their long journey - with Poledouris' gripping score played over the scenes - the heartwrenching and terrific emotion can bring anyone to tears. The miniseries does contain some unnecessary sexual implications and bad language, but aside from those elements, "Lonesome Dove" is one of the few productions on film that I definitely consider to be undeniably perfect in every way.