I just finished watching this video last English class..  The book was a masterpiece and brilliant I loved it..  You caught everything and you felt like you were there..  Everything was powerful, and then our English teacher showed us the 1990 version of the video..  She warned us beforehand that it was a terrible movie, but I didnt think it would be that bad..  But I was wrong..
The first few minutes of the movie I automatically found many things wrong with the movie..  Like the boys had a boat and they were all together on the island..  There was an adult on the island for crists sakes!!  They were supposed to be by themselves..  And whats with the glow stick?  At least they had the conch..
Also, the rest of the movie wasn't THAT bad it got a bit better, however, they missed all the symoblism and metaphors, ( ie the butterflies around Simon).. and Simon was barely a main character, and they completely missed the talking to the Lord Of the flies..  On this movie they focused more on the hunting and violence instead of survival..  The different nightmares and visiions they have just confuse people ( ie the helicopter that crashes) and some scenes don't go well with each other..  Piggys death I just laughed at since it was kinda stupid how it just bounced off his head..
The actors werent great.. Only Jack did a good job of turning into a savage and being totally outta control..  Piggy was annoying but not really smart as in the book..  And the boys were American, not British.. and they were Cadets instead of school and choir boys..  There was so much swearing it just got redicluous to the point where you didn't take them seriously anymore
So to end this, if you didn't read the book, you will not understand the movie entireally..  Some parts will not make sense and you can't understand it in a deeper level as you would with a novel..  Sure some people say you can't compare a movie with a book because its not the same, but Im sure goldein is not pleased with what they did with a great book..  I only gave it 2 because of the scenery was beautiful and it somewhat gave an idea about people turning sour without civilisation..  Well thats my two cents =)