Interesting movie with lots of heart and a very unique and compassionate look into the lives of homeless people.  The movie is a drama and quite slow-paced, but did not bore me.  The acting is decent and the story compelling enough to keep intrigued viewers from dosing off.

I agree with the previous reviewer who said that this movie is more of a story about Neale Donald Walsch's transformation from poverty and homelessness to best-selling author than it has anything to do with a conversation with God; however, the entire movie builds up to the "encounter" with God so the story is effective to the plot.

While most people who are familiar with Neale Donald Walsch's writings will relate to the content, Christians who are considering viewing or purchasing this movie (because of its title) should note that this is not presented as a "Christian movie" nor does it contain a Christian sub-theme.  The "God" in this story is a "new age" concept, which basically has nothing to do with God in actuality at all, let alone a biblical view of God.  To put it in basic terms for folks that have no knowledge of New Age philosophy, Neale Donald Walsch's god is, in a certain respect, "his consciousness" (his "inner voice"), not really an external deity.  Walsch's teachings include a mix of monism (all is one and one is all), pantheism (all is God and God is all), and is heavily slighted by experience and emotions rather than words (doctrines).  Walsch was once asked, "Are we all gods? Or all part of God? Or are we all collectively God?" to which he answered, "Yes, to all of the above!" (just to give you a sense of his logic)  Walsch sometimes quotes Scripture (where it serves his opinion) but ignores context.  His beliefs include an ideology that there really is no right or wrong, no sin, no Divine Father to son/daughter relationship and everyone is basically good (even Hitler will be in "heaven" according to Walsch).

Fortunately, these expansive views of New Age spirituality are not focused on in this movie so, if a person can set the detail that Walsch is "new age" aside, they will likely be able to find some positive insights from the film.  At the very least there is a quality emotional element to the movie and, as a previous reviewer noted, one of the rare few films that focuses on the homeless and with such a positive, compassionate perspective.

Personally, I'm not a fan of "guruism" and that's exactly what Walsch has made himself (IMHO).  My personal conviction is that a person who has been truly impacted by God does not rush out to sell that experience for a profit.  Walsch, like virtually all new age authors, have made themselves fortunes off their generic value, Hodge podge smorgasbord of feel-good theology (much like many televangelists as well).  In observing Walsch's personal beliefs, there are moments when he touches truth and says things eloquently enough, but again, his more elaborate reasonings on faith (most of which do not align with anything one might consider biblical Christianity) are not effectively covered in this film.

Decent film, emotionally satisfying, but certainly not Oscar worthy and Christians will not identify with the content.