There was much hype and oompah prior to The Road to Perdition being released. It doesn't live up to it. But that doesn't mean it's a bad film. 
First, the good points.
The performances are, by and large, excellent. Hanks turns in a good performance, certainly didn't phone it in. Paul Newman is excellent and the transition from hearty gang boss to broken old man as the film progresses works well. The kid who plays Hanks' son is no Haley Joel Osment (Is that fact all bad? Perhaps not.) but then he's certainly no Macauley Culkin either and manages to refrain from being a mawkish irritant, which is good enough for me. Jude Law is excellent (damn his good looks and his talent and his fashionable wife) and the part where he is fiddling with his camera in the diner in a truly model bit of business. And it's got Stanley Tucci in it - bonus. 
It looks good. It looks really, really good. It was cinematographer Conrad Hall's last film and I have to say, there are worse things to go out on. It's got noir looks. The snow. The rain. The Shadows. The lighting effects. The architecture. The period interiors. It's all good. That said, it's not GRITTY. It's dark, but it's not gritty. The Godfather was gritty. Goodfellas was gritty. This isn't gritty. But then I'm not sure it's meant to be a genre mobster film so I don't know if it's fair to hold that against it. 
OK, so what's wrong with it? Well beneath the good looks and the performances, it's not actually a particularly good film. The script doesn't sparkle much, though it has it's moments. To be honest, the storyline is pure Hollywood cheese. It's just that you spend so much time looking at the sets and the performances that you only realise the fact intermittantly. The actors probably give the script more than it deserves to be honest. The symbolism can get a bit much too, especially towards the end. It builds the atmosphere, in fairness, but ultimately, it's pretty hollow. 
 I wouldn't say people shouldn't give it a go. You might be bored rigid, you might thoroughly enjoy it. Not sure I'd buy it without having seen it first, though. Basically, it's a very average film, lifted by the heroic efforts of the cast and director.