This is a solid 'back to form' Woody Allen movie, very funny in places, and all that, and so fans will be happy etc.. That's great, however, I will just like to review the pseudo-nihilistic ideas in this film, which to me sounded like the scribblings of a succesfull rich guy with to much time on his hands, trying to be an existential philosopher, with his philonthropic supporters and his barb wire fence.

Some Greek wrote this cheerful plot about our sorry state on this planet around 2500 years ago...Woody Allen and Larry David should take note...  `oy you there! Wretched ephemeral race, random blots of chance and misery, why do you force me to tell you what would be best for you not to hear? The best is utterly beyond your reach: not to be born, not to exist, to be nothing. But the second best for you is this; to die soon! .... Let's see if Woody Alan, who fancies himself as an intellect, can do any better?

Firstly, this is a very funny movie and Larry David is great as ever and so we enjoyed it; my girlfriend and I, however, my girlfriend reckons that Woody Allen isn't as smart as he thinks he is and I mostly agree with her. Let me attempt to explain our reservations (for all you fan-boys wishing to defend rich beyond your dreams Woody Allen, remember that he doesn't care about you, so go support another team), now for our diatribe.

This film is an attempt to show off Woody Allen's capabilities as a brain-box and his existential thoughts; he being the Woody Allen we used to love. In the movie, Larry David is brilliant as Boris Yellnikoff, a Nobel level thinker with an IQ of 200 (if you enjoy Curb, you will like this). Boris' massive IQ has stripped the veil of idiocy from his eyes and he can now see the rock-hard reality of our wretched state. Boris therefore sounds angry and opinionated, but that is only because we are hearing him wrong, and he will now share his insights with the dumb viewers (there are some imaginaitve and very funny straight to the camera talking scenes which I found smart). So what profundities does the string theorist have to throw at the cinema audience? Sadly, not much. The words escaping the mouth of the genius are not the thoughts of a man with a massive IQ, but the thoughts of Woody Allen's 2lb of brains. In other words, any baboon, or first year philosophy student, can write this stuff! But you may be wondering, how do I know what a 200 IQ would sound like? Well many genius scientists and philosophers have written their anger down for posterity and I'm a fan of 'nihilist' ideas; having read the masters like Arthur Schopenhauer (Einstein's and Erwin Schrodinger's favorite philosopher), Tolstoy, especially his very depressing Confessions (Tolstoy became intellectually unglued after reading Schopenhauer and committed suicide) and the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy (with the depressed robot. The robot was a brilliant satire on all things gloomy), all have something to important say. So I know the 'horror of being a crap extreting anus' or 'the zero meaning to existence' industry very well and I was hoping to be entertained by this Woody Allen movie. My reason for having high hopes is the fact that, even though Woody Allen's been slowly  drudging along for years now, it's rumored that he's a very intelligent guy. Woody Alan knew Marshall McLuhan, youthful Woody Alan made very funny existentialist standup Jew jokes, and he once made a reference to Ernest Becker's Denial of Death in one of his movies and he's even read some Nietzsche (inspired him to invade Poland apparently).

Maybe, just maybe then, the young Allen was a tortured genius inside, but for fear of being shunned by the herd industry, he kept most of his thoughts hidden until the day when he has nothing to lose (he's near death himself, so the time is now).

Now that time has arrived and so Allen will give us the fruits of his brains. How about this scenario? Woody Alan is an existentialist intellectual who sees no escape from the fleeting meat-hook of our rubbish existence and after producing rubbish for a few decades himself, in order to earn the trust of human kind you see, old age Allen is at last going to let rip with his own brand of nihilist truth. Why not? If Schrodinger, or Tolstoy and the others did in their later life, then what's Woody Allen got to lose? (by the way, I'm not laughing as Allen's age, because Allen has read Denial of Death, and if he understood it, he should be immune from rampant narcissism in old age)

Allen is a millionaire establishment figure after all, and so he's license to let rip, like my hero Ricky Gervais brilliantly let's rip in his work and Larry David brilliantly did in Curb Your Enthusiasm (Larry David is miles funnier than Woody Allen, but not the Allen from the 1970's)). Gervais and David however do not have genius IQ's, so what Boris Yellnikoff has in store for us should be profound..

Albert Einstein once said that genius' is an escape from everyday life, with its painful crudity and hopeless dreariness. Can Boris Yellnikoff, with his IQ of 200, do any better? Well for a man with an IQ of 200, his sophomore moaning about the universe being indifferent to our whims, and people being mere atoms, screaming through the hollow glass void of emptiness blah blah blah has been done a million times before by first year philosophy students. If you ever watched The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, there is a depressed robot who does the Boris act to a T. Douglas Adams meant his robot as a satire, so after Douglas Adams' robot, any would be smart arse with pretensions to clever pessimism has to do better than the robot. Woody Allen failed. I'm a fan of Larry David, and he's probably an intelligent guy too, but he and Allen are both establishment starts, that is, the establishment is the machine they exist for, and so they are not going to rock the boat with truth. You don't make it to a ripe old age in Hollywood by being an Outsider. Here is an example of Allen's conservative head. Half way through the movie, Larry David's character is near the Statue of Liberty, with the young girl, and he lets rip with a politically correct 'culture wars' left wing rant about white Americans being racist and all that. However, at the start of the movie, David makes clear his detatched resignation from life and his distain for the lumpen herd. A genius would be above the street scuffle of culture war academia anyway, especialy party political careerist behaviour. There are many contradictions like this in Boris's dialogue. For example, the best he can say to the idiot girl is, 'your an idiot'! An idiot girl is not a good interlucotor for a genius to shine on anyway. The reason for this infintile lack of insight is because Woody Allen typed the words, not a genius and so Boris the string theorist ends up sounding like a puppet. Allen should have plagiarized the genius' of history. He should have stole the best bits from Schopenhauer or Sophocles or even Nietzsche, and he could do with some Buddha jokes. Imagine a cinema character talking the truth to a dumb cinema audience! They would all choke on their popcorn!

P.S. Don't let Hollywood nerds and producers depress you. The cleverest people in the world never sounded like Boris Yellnikoff. Yellnikoff is just the figment of a small imagination. It's a meaningless universe indeed.