You can tell this movie was written and directed by a fan. There is no doubt in my mind that Mark Steven Johnson is a DareDevil fan and I know he meant well. However, just because you're a fan doesn't mean the movie you make will be any good. Though he does stay very true to the dark Frank Miller version of DareDevil, which is a good thing because, in my opinion, the Stan Lee and Bill Everett version had zero appeal. Since DareDevil is a lesser-known character it would have been more appealing to do a comic book movie that wasn't your typical comic book movie. However they just chose to take bits and pieces of other comic book movies and put them together. Don't get me wrong, the stuff they took from other films is interesting but we've seen it all before in other comic book movies. For example the look of the movie looks very much like Alex Proyas's version of James O Barr's The Crow. But to me DareDevil should look and feel more like something a long the lines of Taxi Driver. A DareDevil movie shouldn't be like Batman, or Spider-man or any other comic book superhero movie. It should be like The Godfather, or Good Fellas, or Taxi Driver, with a Superhero thrown in the middle of it all. However, looking pass the facts that this is a typical comic book movie it has its good and bad points. Most of the acting in it is pretty good. I liked Ben Afflecks performance a lot, despite what others say. I also highly admire the fact that he took a pretty big pay cut to do the film because he's actually a fan. Colin Farrell plays his part well and you can tell he had fun with it but you're left wishing he had more lines and a bigger part. Michael Clark Duncan isn't my ideal Kingpin, but not because he's black but because he's not that scary. Michael Clark Duncan seems more like a big puppy dog than he does a villain. Another thing is Kingpin should never smile, Michael Clark Duncan smiles way too much in the movie but that's also partly the fault of Mark Steven Johnson. Jennifer Garner plays her part pretty well but not with much flavor. She's very sweet in the movie but Elektra should have more appeal than just sweet. What made her character in the comics so appealing to DareDevil was that she was an equal. Not just some pretty girl with a nice smile. They do play up the fact that she is DareDevil's equal but they do it in such a corny and stupid way. There's a seen in the park where Matt and Elektra start to fight but it makes pretty much no sense. Matt is trying to get her name and all of a sudden they start doing all these flips and kicks. If Matt is trying to hide the fact that he has powers, he isn't doing a very good job of it. That part aside, Ben and Jennifer actually have pretty good chemistry on screen but what's more amazing is the chemistry between Ben Affleck and Jon Favreau. Mark Steven Johnson really rights some great dialogue between the two. I would actually love to see Johnson write a buddy movie staring Ben and Jon. Another thing I liked about the movie is all the little "inside" stuff only comic book fans will get. Like when Jack Murdock (Matt's father) is approached by Fallon and he mentions three other fighters names "Miller, Mack, Bendis" are all the last names of more or less recent writers of DareDevil. And some obvious stuff like Kevin Smith's appearance because Smith wrote the comic back in 98. And I thought it was really cool that they had the fight between Elektra and Bullseye from DareDevil 181 that is legendary. Overall I wouldn't say this is a bad movie just they could have made it so much more interesting. They could have made it more like an actual movie and less like a comic book movie. Though I must say that the second disk is worth the price of the DVD alone. There is a REALLY good documentary on DareDevil with interviews with some of the greatest DareDevil creators out there.