This anime is my ABSOLUTE FAVORITE. At first the cell animation bothered me.  It seemed to flow a bit choppy and Yakumo's expressions were a bit wierd. But it grows on you and becomes unique in its own way.  Besides, from the 5th episode onward the animation has been improved (episodes 1-4 were done in an earlier year, 5-7 were done later). It's an older show so many people would not appreciate it, but they would be making a grievious mistake in passing it by.  The other reviews pretty much sum up the story but I would like to add a few comments.  If you don't like spoilers, don't read on. This anime is a perfect blend of horror and romance.  Pai saves Yakumo when he is on the verge of death.  The only way she can do it is by taking his soul and making him her immortal body guard.  When I say immortal, I mean immortal!  Yakumo can been cut in two, riddled by bullets, skewered, dismembered, etc. and still pull himself together. In order to get his soul back he has to help Pai fulfill her mission.  There fates are tied together, either become human together or die. This show isn't for children.  Yakumo is sort of like a living zombie and the creator made sure he at least had 3 or 4 gory "death" scenes per episode.  Who knew someone could bleed so much.  AT first it might shock you, but then you start to enjoy it and think "Oh my gosh, how did I become so blood thirsty."  There is also a scene of virgin sacrifice and some demonic dolls that would give children nigtmares, but are perfectly fine for an adult.  As horror's go, this one is mild. The romance is surprising.  There is a depth to it you wouldn't think it had.  Yakumo grows in love with the loveable Pai.  She is really silly and has an optimistic outlook on just about everything.  Her demonic personality(the Sanjion) however, torments Yakumo.  She insults his lack of skill and calls him a slave.  Still it is obvious that she too cares for him.  Most of her insults cover her true feelings.  Later in the series, a third party, Awashoe enters Pai's body.  This is where it gets more complicated and the trajedy occurs.  Awashoe is like the perfect blend between Pai and the Sanjion.  She falls desperatley in love with Yakumo and vice versa.  By this time Yakumo is very confused.  Who is the real girl?  Who does he really love?  In the last episode one of the three souls has to make a huge sacrifice in order to save the one THEY ALL love.  What happens then is bitter sweet.  Most people's complaint is that the series ends with no real conclusion.  Humanity has not been achieved.  But there was no time for something so momentous to occur in just 7 episodes.  Besides, it could take centuries for them to succeed.  I admit that I would have loved to have seen this develope into a bigger series, but I love it just the way it is.  By ending it after such a passionate scene we are left in awe and tears.  But most importantly, by leaving off at that point, the creator leaves it up to our imagination to come up with the rest of the story.  That way everyone gets what they want, instead of later being dissapointed.