I saw this show when it came to Oregon, but they held it in this concrete building which has terrible sound (I heard they had been having sound problems in general on this tour); so I was eager to see how it sounded on DVD.  I think there's some problems in the balance between all the different guitars, especially during Vai's set, you can barely hear Tony McAlpine (...)!  I notice a lot of people criticizing Satriani; saying that he shamefully reproduces his recordings note for note live and that he sounds the weakest in the jam.  Satch is a master composer; he does a little improv in his legato lines and such, his music is tightly arranged though.  If he didn't play it for the most part like it is on a record then it would fall apart, thus it's stupid to hold this against him.  I think Satch has the broadest style of all of them; he's the blues guy with metal technique, Ynwie's style is dominated by classical influence combined with a technique known as "tendonitis", and I don't know what Vai is.  Vai's stuff is too...out there, it's composed fastidiously but it sounds like a jam, and his squealing often annoys me.  Ynwie is an astounding musician, listen to any of his solos during the jam; all of the right notes are there, but he has a habit of obscuring the musical quality of his playing with masterbatory technique.  His acoustic guitar solo is great, and his set will certainly glut your appetite for sonic sensory assualt, though ultimately his stage antics and ADHD playing especially during the jam leave me trying to picture him in a clown costume.  I miss the Satch set from the first G3 video; The Extremist aside, this one just makes me want more.  They could have chosen a better mix of songs for one thing, I can't believe Always with me Always with you still hasn't made it on to a G3 video.  I don't know Vai's career too well so I can't say much about his set, I think it's pretty lame, but that's me.  A good video overall, worth it if you like any one of these players.  The poor set selection keeps it a star short of five.