I watched this movie for one reason - I might have something of an addiction to Karl Urban.  I love Karl Urban and will watch anything he's been in.  I finally got a hold of Priest and grew suddenly wary that maybe this movie was going to be so atrocious that I'd fall asleep or turn off.  Well, while I was disappointed that such a high concept and awesome set design were wasted on horrible dialogue and horrible acting from almost every single cast member, I wasn't totally turned off.

This movie has a lot going for it.  Great cast, interesting plot, amazing visuals.  What it doesn't have going for it, though, is solid writing and good acting.  Paul Bettany's only emotion for the entire movie was "GRRRRR!" Karl Urban brought something to the table, but I was honestly more focused on his fangs and attempt at a Southern accent than I was on his delivery.  But the dialogue...  Oh dear jeebus the dialogue.  The lines were campy, cruddy, and unbelievable at the same time.

PRIEST seems like some great homage to ALIENS, except with vampires instead of aliens.  The set design for the vampire hive seems like LV-426 all over again, and the vampire cocoons were like the eggs we see in the Alien series.  On top of a vampire queen and a character named Hicks who basically serves the same purpose as Hicks from ALIENS, I couldn't get past that.  I did enjoy the dystopian elements of the story, though, particularly the fact it seemed like a Catholic version of EQUILIBRIUM with the city sets reminiscent of DARK CITY.  The movie was by no means bad on the eyes.  It was just bad on the part of your movie going soul that wants quality acting.

My verdict: good sets, baaaaaad acting and dialogue.  This movie could have been so much better if handled by a better screenwriter.  The ending was also a big letdown.  I'm curious to know more, but don't really care either way.  Give it a try if you like awesome sets, vampires, action, or dystopian awesomeness, but otherwise...  Let's face it, you'll probably hate it.