Seems like one of the new go-to themes in movies is the nerdy guy in the cubicle who just might be a dangerous psychotic.  Before long, we might have to change "going postal" to "going cubicle."  Well, here's another one.  Joel David Moore stars/co-writes/co-directs this tale of Mason, an insurance telemarketer by day/painter by night who is in contention for the Most Socially Awkward Man title (introvert division).  Mason has frequent episodes in which he awakes from a fitful sleep with the panicked impression that he just might have killed a girl who was modeling for his painting.  He immediately calls his boyhood pal and current boss, Berkeley (Zachary Levi), who calms him down and assures him to take his meds and everything will be fine.

After a while, Mason meets Amber (Amber Tamblyn), a fellow brown-bag lunch type at their generic company.  Amber doggedly ignores the veritable neon sign flashing "Creepy" and "Awkward" intermittently, for reasons that are essentially plot driven and unapparent to the audience.  Eventually, she notices Mason's sketchbook, which reinforces her determination to repress the natural inclination to shudder and back away very slowly from this dude.  And yes, she will be Mason's next model and muse.

There are plenty of options from that set up.  Maybe it's a special edition of Beauty and the Geek, in which a beautiful and bubbly girl can see through the total absence of available personality and save the tortured, sensitive and inwardly beautiful geek.  Maybe it's A Beautiful Mind, set to painting instead of math.  Maybe there really is a slasher in there.  Or perhaps a combo plate of some of the above with other stuff they've whipped up here.  Or maybe something else altogether, and they're messing with us to throw everyone off track.

The acting is excellent - Mason is believably twitchy, tortured and weird.  Amber is adorable, sweet and quirky, albeit not really quirky enough to justify such an interest in Mason.  Berkeley is fine as a one-note insensitive cad who apparently grew fond of Mason before losing all other human emotions.  The dialogue is problematic, however.  The interplay between Mason and Amber just doesn't ring true for the first half of the movie, and the transitions in their relationship are somewhat leaden.  The twists-and-turns promised by all the promotional references to Hitchcock provide variable levels of satisfaction, and it should be noted that at least one of them is adapted from other, better films.  All in all, Spiral is at best a fall-back rental when the video store is out of your top choices.