If you're a Kiss fan -- and I am -- this is a freaking GREAT movie.  But as a movie on its own merit it's at best an average attempt at the coming-of-age tale of four boys on their way to capture the Holy Grail.  I'll get the bad stuff out of the way first...
The script has a good story, but the dialogue is mediocre most of the time.  Having the script polished up by a veteran writer would have made this a fantastic movie.  There's not enough character development and too many predictible "Oops-there's-another-easily-avoided-circumstance-bound-to-cause-our-heroes-problems" scenarios.  Of course, these circumstances are the basis for the whole movie, but they could have been made a bit more plausible.
The "bad guys" - notably the anti-Kiss mother, twisted schoolmaster and Catholic priest - are cardboard cutouts of the worst possible stereotypes and are almost impossible to watch.  Growing up amidst the hieght of the anti-Kiss crusade, I'll be the first to admit there were some pretty strange folks out there picketing concerts.  But they were more frightening than funny.
Now the good stuff.  
The boys are funny.  Their exploits - no matter how stupid - are pretty humorous.  The scene with our heroes practicing as a Kiss copy band in the basement will certainly tug at the hearts and minds of any Kiss fan.  How many guitars have been purchased and played by no-talent fans just because of Ace Frehley?  These guys exemplify that spirit in a wonderfully entertaining manner.  The accuracy of the period references is another thing that really "makes" this film.  From the opening scene where mom is sifting through vinyl (!) recordings of Manilow, the Carpenters, etc., the film is full of tidbits all too familiar to those of us who grew up in the seventies.  My personal favorite is the gold Trans-am full of decked-out disco enthusiasts driving down the highway singing and "acting" to David Naughton's tragic "Makin' It."  I laughed out loud and any chiold of the 70's will too.
The final scene, wherein the boys get into the show (hardly a spoiler here) is good if only for the accuracy of the Love Gun stage show.  A great deal of attention to detail obviously went into this scene and it pays off.  And Peter Criss actually gets a dramatic moment elusive to his bandmates for a change!  
The DVD is worth getting for Kiss fans mainly because there's a multi-angle version of the song "Detroit Rock City" in the "Cutting Room" section of special features.  With fire-breathing, smoking guitars, and the whole bit compressed into one song, this one special feature does in three minutes what the poorly edited "Kiss Symphony" DVD was unable to do in two hours - capture the magic of a Kiss show from the fans' point of view.
Three stars - one for the special feature multi-angle song, one for capturing the true spirit of the average Kiss fan, one for the tasty pop-culture references.