Within every great television series, the characters have had to mature and deal with adult situations as they grew up. "Buffy the Vampire Slayer- Season Five" is a great example of how the "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" series started out as a show about a group of friends in High School and College, and by the end of the fifth season they were now grown into their own people. This is a great season in the show due to its great assembly of characters, real life problems, and awesome story. For sure, the fifth season of "Buffy" will be one you will love if you are a true Buffy fan.
To start, I have never really seen a show with a better assembled cast of characters. Buffy (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is still dealing with the problem of being a vampire slayer and also trying to fit into the world. Her friends are all finding places in their lives during this season, and for once growing up and supporting themselves. Xander (Nicholas Brendan) continues his construction job and even begins to get promoted and starts thinking about marriage to his ex-vengeance demon girlfriend Anya (Emma Caufield). Willow (Alyson Hannigan) is still in a growing relationship with Tara (Amber Benson), going to UC Sunnydale, and becoming a very gifted wicca. Giles (Anthony Stewart Head) has found a job as the owner of a store called 'The Majic Box' which Anya also works at. Riley (Mark Blucas) is still Buffy's boyfriend but their dieing relationship ends up causing more problems for both of them than expected. The only people not completely satisfied with life are Buffy and the vampire punk Spike (James Marsters) who is realizing that he has feelings for the slayer, his once great enemy. Besides Spike's obsession with her, Buffy must deal with two other problems- her mother's (Kristine Sutherland) growing illness and her sister Dawn (Michelle Tratchenberg), whom she soon discovers is not her real sister but a ball of energy called The Key sent to the slayer by Monks to protect it from a hell goddess known as Glory (Claire Kramer) who is not only evil but also hilarious and ditzy at the same time.
Next, although Buffy is a show that is not real, and really never could be, Joss Wheadon and his crew do a great job placing real life problems and situations into the story- such as Buffy's mom's tumor, an annoying little sister who is more than she appears, Willow and Tara's unusual relationship, Xander's debating about marriage, and even Buffy having to drop out of college to take care of her family. Yes, it is true that even though Buffy is make believe, you can still connect with it just as well as any other show.
Finally, the all out season was just great. Sarah Michelle Gellar, Alyson Hannigan, Nicholas Brendan, and Anthony Stewart Head do usual spectacualr jobs playing characters that go through all the normal emotions, such as loss, joy, confusion- and even the end of the world. Emma Caufield and Claire Kramer make their characters come to life with some funny moments and having their characters, who are from other dimensions, have to deal and adjust to the human world. Kristine Sutherland and Amber Benson are great for their overlooked roles, and Michelle Tratchenberg joins the cast with a bang as an annoying and mysterious teenage girl who we all know is more than she seems. James Marsters nearly steals many episodes again with his classic character Spike, who now becomes a great and exciting character in the show that you love and hate at the same time. The only character I have a problem with is Riley, played by Mark Blucas, who seems rather unfit to be in Buffy's world. His character is too 'nice' and just has no chemistry with Buffy. But that problem is not large at all considering the amount of greatness put into the show. Mercedes McNabb, Juliet Landau, Charlie Webber, and others guest star and are all just simply awesome.
To conclude, this is a great season to a great show. It's a step up from the somewhat dull fourth season, and can hold its own. It has several stand out episodes, and just has an amazing four part ending, and many other episodes in it that are all around good. The villain, Glory, is both threatening and has a connection to Buffy, not to mention her family, and a good villain creates a fun season. The relationships once again are all tested, and Joss Wheadon has proven that even after five years, he's not done with this classic show. For any Buffy fan.