J.K. Rowling's tale is, as always, rife with fresh ideas, and her believable characters continue to endure further challenges in the process of growing-up.  Apart from the story's more fanciful elements, there are also some real-life lessons being learned here (in boy-girl relationships and academic cheating among them).

That said, Rowling's extensive narrative doesn't fit so comfortably into a two-and-a-half hour running time.  Screenwriter Steve Kloves manages to get most of it all to work within the prescribed length (though it is hard to see the point of invented scenes like Harry's flirtation with a muggle girl in the London tube station when that screen-time could have been alloted to more of Rowling's own ideas).

Director David Yates handles the material adroitly, but his style feels more perfunctory than the series' previous directors.  One scene in particular (which I won't spoil), is a major -- and devastating -- turning point in Rowling's tale, but it lacks any dramatic intensity and proves something of a lead balloon.  The film is technically well-photographed (by Bruno Delbonnel) but is awash in low-key, shadowy lighting, and a generally drab, washed-out colour scheme.  While effective in the spookier moments, this look doesn't suit the scenes of intimacy or humor, and tends to cast a dreary pall about the film.  Nicholas Hooper provides a serviceable score, but it too is lacklustre compared to the symphonic grandeur of John Williams' Harry Potter music.

However the performers are (as usual) first rate. The established cast bring ever-more freshness to their parts, while newcomer Hero Fiennes-Tiffin (nephew of Ralph Fiennes) makes for an unnervingly sinister Tom Riddle, and veteran actor Jim Broadbent makes a fine Professor Slughorn.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is a wonderful story which results in a very good film.  Warner Bros. Blu-ray disc boasts an excellent transfer with crisp detail.  But it does lack the epic sweep of the earlier films and doesn't deliver a satisfying emotional payoff, and so proves one of the less-enjoyable Potter adaptations.