This is one of those pointless, day-in-the-life-of-a type of movies, and while it does offer some big laughs, it lacks a heart. Raunchy comedy was done much better in "The Wedding Crashers" and "The 40 Year Old Virgin". But analyzing this film on its own merits...

Ryan Reynolds has the perfect face of a snarky jock-type frat boy who's just enjoying life as he works as the top dog waiter at Shenanigans (a not-too-subtle jab at the actual Bennigans). His facial reactions, dead-on Forrest Gump impersonation, and comments make this film better than it is. I haven't seen Van Wilder except for the trailer, so it looks like he's playing a similar role. He better watch out for his career choices, because he could easily get stuck playing the same "big man on campus frat boy jock" for the remainder of his career.

The rest of the actors are cardboard cut-outs. There's a waitress with anger management problems; a flirty underage waitress who loves to come on to older men and get them into trouble; comedian Dane Cook plays...get this: a cook! The restaurant manager is a balding middle age man with no friends to speak of so he tries to get socially involved with his much younger employees. I actually thought that was true to life, as several managers of restaurants I've worked in certainly fit that stereotype.

My favorite scenes were ones with the two white, dishwashing bus boys who act more like rapping b-boys. One of them, T-dog, even has his hair in cornrows. They are often found rapping and throwing insults like a rap star. The rap played during the end credits is hilarious! I couldn't stop laughing. The lyrics are downright funny, even if a bit misogynistic, but who cares?

What I love most about this film are the jabs at various customer types who are extremely picky about the way their food is prepared (if a person is that anal retentive about their food, they should never eat in a restaurant), those who don't leave big tips, those who overtip, and the various ways waiters and waitresses flirt with customers in order to garner a large tip. While I'm certain that servers at restaurant deal with difficult customers through the passive-aggressive practice of messing with one's food, I thought those scenes went too far for my taste. If anything, it serves as a warning to difficult customers, but I certainly hope that no waiter/cook would ever do that to a polite/considerate customer. It's the most unethical thing one can do to deal with a difficult customer.

What killed the film for me was the stupid game they play. While I'm sure it happens in any industry with immature men who think such things are funny, I just thought they wrapped the whole film around it, taking away from the things they could've and should've shown. However, to the filmmakers credit, the end scene is brilliant and some of the funniest I've seen. Still...I subtract a star for making that game the running gag throughout the film.

This is okay to see once, but not to own or ever see again. For raunchy good fun, I'll stick with "The Wedding Crashers" and "The 40 Year Old Virgin"...two movies that deliver even bigger and better laughs and a more interesting storyline to match.