It is a world unlike anything that we will ever experience in our lives. It's a world of fear, hate, misunderstanding and death. It's a world without reason. It's a world of horror. This is the portrait that is painted for us by Francis Ford Coppola in his 1979 masterpiece, Apocalypse Now. Loosely based on Joseph Conrad's 1902 short story, Heart of Darkness, the legendary Coppola, director of the immensely popular Godfather trilogy, tells us the story of Vietnam that screamed to be told and mesmerized audiences in the late 1970s to the tune of $150 million, three Golden Globes and eight Academy Award nominations.
 Apocalypse Now is the unnerving tale of the fatefully intertwined lives of Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen) and Colonel Walter E. Kurtz (Marlon Brando). In Willard's narration at the beginning of the movie, he tells us "I wanted a mission, and for my sins I got one. And when it was over I'd never want another." The mission in question is the quest that Willard is sent on, boating with a small crew of young sailors on a river that runs throughout the heart of the Vietnam War and into Cambodia, where Willard's assignment is to seek out the renegade American Colonel and terminate his command "with extreme prejudice." The movie follows Willard on his journey and gives us a glimpse at the horror and the hell that stemmed from this jungle conflict thirty years ago.
 Coppola uses long camera shots and slow transitions between scenes throughout the better part of the movie, and they work wonders in relating to the viewer the feeling that these brave young soldiers must have had as they floated down the river on that deadly journey. The long shots create a cryptically slow and methodical pace, and they give the viewer ample opportunity to try to analyze the state of mind of both Captain Willard and Colonel Kurtz, thus making Apocalypse Now a wonderful psychological thriller in addition to being the tremendous war story that it already is.
 Coppola's film also benefited heavily from the genius that he showed in selecting his music and sound. In fact, Apocalypse Now won an Academy Award for Best Sound and a Golden Globe for Best Original Score. He mixed in some rock n' roll, like the Rolling Stones, to give the viewer a sense of time and place and in order to increase their adrenaline during some of the more exciting scenes (such as when Captain Willard rises from the water en route to slay Colonel Kurtz), plus he used some popular classical music (when Lieutenant Colonel Kilgore leads his flock of helicopters against the Vietnamese village), and the wonderful classical score throughout the film was reminiscent of Coppola's previous success, The Godfather.
 Of the eight Academy Awards that Apocalypse Now was nominated for, it won two, and one of those (Sound) has already been mentioned, but I'd be remiss not to mention the second, Best Cinematography. This award was well deserved as Apocalypse Now used many aspects of cinematography and mise-en-scene in order to create so many wonderful and thoroughly memorable scenes. One such scene was when Willard's crew arrived at the Do-Lung Bridge. Coppola showed the view from Willard's eyes, as he was ducking down in the trench and asked a soldier named Roach if he knew who was in command. You could only see the faces of Roach and Willard when the darkness was interrupted by slow, pulsing bursts of light that were created by the explosions and the flares shot into the air as Roach gave his spine-chilling reply. A second scene that I'd like to mention, that was alluded to before, was when Captain Willard rose from the river, face covered in mud and camouflage on his way to kill Colonel Kurtz. This scene was beautifully done as the camera was kept at water level to see Willard slowly rising, not unlike an alligator, to the surface in pursuit of his prey. Smog billows off the water and Sheen's character brandishes the sword with which he is going to honorably kill Colonel Kurtz, so that Kurtz can go out the way that he wanted to - as a soldier. The whole movie was filmed in this manner, and that is why it warranted its Academy Award.
 I really loved this movie. It kept me entranced from beginning to end, and whether or not it is an accurate description of what life was like in the Vietnam War, to me is irrelevant. For me, Apocalypse Now was nothing more than a tremendous story about one man's journey through hell, in order to relieve a tortured man's soul that has experienced more horror than anybody should ever have to endure, from his greatest burden. His life.