Can someone please tell me where to get the re-mastered DVD version of this film with Chinese audio and English subtitles?  The recent Hong Kong Legends release is crazy: Chinese audio, or English audio, but NO English subtitles!

I have the original Chinese language/English subtitled (the subtitles are imbedded) version of this movie on a Universe VCD and, based on the merits of its available Chinese audio/English subtitles alone, it is a better movie--by magnitudes--than the one(s) commercially available to the (hapless) U.S. market.

The English dubbing on this DVD, even though well synchronized with the actors' lips, takes so much away from the film nevertheless, especially its "Chinese-ness," which is a major reason I enjoy this movie genre.  Take, for example, the scene where our hero first returns to Jing Woo School after learning of his master's death and sees First Senior fight a challenge match with a visiting master.  After handily defeating the challenger, First Senior actually saves face for the beaten master which the English soundtrack completely (and deplorably) misses.  Also, at the very end of the U.S. release film, Chen says he is going back to his Japanese girlfriend.  In the original, Hong Kong release, he actually goes off to fight the Japanese with the resistance movement.  Between these two examples, there are many such, gross audio mis-cues; enough, at least, to take three stars away from an otherwise five-star martial arts film: the best of Jet Li's filmography, and perhaps the best of the "modern" Martial Arts genre, period.

The same criticism holds true for Jet Li's The Tai Chi Master (released in the U.S. as the English-dubbed Twin Warriors).  It's an English soundtrack superimposed over a Chinese movie, often stripping the film of its unique cultural content/identity/nuance, forcing the film through an American "knock-down-shoot-'em-up" template and reducing the potential for mental (as opposed to strictly visceral) enjoyment to a pitiful minimum.  We end up with a film typically devoid of humor, character development and silver screen "intimacy," a film precariously out of balance with, and far flung from, its careful directorial intent.

If you value the full content--visible and audible--of Chinese martial arts films, but lack facility in the host language, then the next best thing is a well-subtitled, original language version.  And this release clearly is not that--by a long, long, long shot.