As one other reviewer pointed out, a documentary on Wrestlemania cannot be released without some people wondering if everything in there is true. Although I'm not going to go as far as one reviewer that claimed that there were only 78,00 people at WMIII, the backstory to WMVII being moved in venue is true. Would I buy this DVD? Most likely not for several reasons.

First of all, anything released from the WWE can always be accused of being biased in some way, shape, or form. Attempts to implicitly snubb former wrestlers that either left under questionable circumstances, or work for other competitions, is always going to be present. The WWE Top 50 Wrestlers of All Time DVD is a prime example and where certain wrestlers, notably Hulk Hogan & Ric Flair, obviously came as a result of their involvement in TNA.

Secondly, the match selection was to be expected. You CAN'T have a Wrestlemania DVD without the Hogan/Andre WMIII encounter. The same is true for Savage/Steamboat from the same Wrestlemania, HBK/Razor Ramon Ladder Match from WMX, Hogan/Rock from WMX8, and the Triangle Ladder Match from WM2000. I will admit that one surprise was including Lesnar/Angle from WMXIX, which was a great match. Outside of that, I thought the match selection was weak and included too many matches already highlighted so many times, I can recite them blindfolded. A couple matches I felt didn't deserve to be in the set. Looking at the list, the two that came to mind immediately was the McMahon/McMahon match from WM17 (I think the Undertaker/Triple H match might have been a better choice), and the Austin/HBK match from WM14 (Austin/Hart from WM13 was a MUCH BETTER match)

Anytime WWE does a DVD like this, there is risk that it could go either way. It could be a great set, or it could be disastrous. I personally thought the WWE DVD in greatest Tag Teems would have been great, but when I heard the host selection, and then looked at the match selection, I was immediately turned away from it. Other DVD's, like the one on Chris Jericho and Edge, turned out to be better than expected. I saw there is an upcoming DVD on the Best Cage Natches. I hope this will be a good one, since I love steel cage matches. However, who knows. Most WWE DVD's are a mixed bag.