Here at long last is The Twilight Zone-Season 2 on Blu-Ray, Following up the Season 1 release just 2 months after! With a Vast selection of bonus features Exclusive to only the Blu-ray format! This set will include all the features available on the Definitive collection sets, only with tons more added!!! Here is a break-down of the Details...

Project Details
Synopsis: All 29 episodes of the second season of Rod Serling's classic, groundbreaking series, now presented in pristine high-definition for the first time ever, along with hours of new and exclusive bonus features not available anywhere else!

EXCLUSIVE BLU-RAY FEATURES
'25 New Audio Commentaries, featuring The Twilight Zone Companion author Marc Scott Zicree, author/film historian Gary Gerani, author/music historian Steven C. Smith, author/film & TV historian, Martin Grams Jr., writer/music historian Jon Burlingame, writer Len Wein, writer/producer Joseph Dougherty, writer/producer Matthew Weiner, writer/director Michael Nankin, writer Marv Wolfman, authors/historians Scott Skelton and Jim Benson and writer George Clayton Johnson.
'Interviews with actors Joseph Ruskin and H. M. Wynant
'Suspense episode "Nightmare at Ground Zero" written by Rod Serling
'Vintage Audio Interview with director of photography George T. Clemens
'Vintage Audio Interview with makeup artist William Tuttle
'15 Radio Dramas featuring Daniel J. Travanti, Jim Caviezel, Jason Alexander, Ed Begley Jr., Fred Willard, Jane Seymour, Michael York, Chris McDonald, Henry Rollins, Stan Freberg and others!
ALSO INCLUDES
'Audio Commentaries by actors Donna Douglas, Don Rickles, William Idelson, Bill Mumy, Cliff Robertson, Dennis Weaver and Shelley Berman
'Vintage Audio Recollections with Buzz Kulik, Douglas Heyes, Maxine Stuart, George Clayton Johnson and Robert Serling
'22 Isolated Music Scores featuring the legendary Bernard Herrmann, Jerry Goldsmith, Fred Steiner and others!
'Sponsor Billboards, - Rod Serling Promos for "Next Week's" Show, and much more!

Episodes: King Nine Will Not Return, The Man in the Bottle, Nervous Man in a Four-Dollar Room, A Thing About Machines, The Howling Man, Eye of the Beholder, Nick of Time, The Lateness of the Hour, The Trouble with Templeton, A Most Unusual Camera, The Night of the Meek, Dust, Back There, The Whole Truth, The Invaders, A Penny for Your Thoughts, Twenty-Two, The Odyssey of Flight 33, Mr. Dingle, the Strong, Static, The Prime Mover, Long Distance Call, A Hundred Yards over the Rim, The Rip Van Winkle Caper, The Silence, Shadow Play, The Mind and the Matter, Will the Real Martian Please Stand Up?, The Obsolete Man

I will own this the day of release, won't you?!

Will This finally be the Ultimate set we've all been asking for?!
Mystic Seer: "What Do You Think???"