I liked the first Nanny McPhee film the best.  It seemed to focus on the people and their issues and on resolving them.  Magic was part of it, but the magic of family was the important part of it.  It made fun of adulthood and of unrestrained childhood without seeming to go beyond the pale.  Furthermore the romance was delightfully comic, making Colin Firth, a former Mr. Darcy, a somewhat helpless and comic widower.

With Nanny McPhee Returns the story seemed way too melodramatic and relied too heavily on special effects.  That Nanny is a witch is obvious and acceptable as it was before, but here there was so much magic that the story seemed to get lost until the very end.  I felt the film worked too hard and employed almost every time worn concept:  "eat your green vegetables" to a grown man who'd been a ward of Nanny in the past.  Not to mention that green vegetables, let alone cheese, during World War II would have been a welcome treat.

The antics seemed intended more to lengthen the film than to enhance the story.  Children chasing escaped piglets seemed quite manic and amusing enough, that the piglets should also do 1930s swimming routines and acrobatics was a little much; in short it felt patronizing.  It was as though a group of adults sitting around a conference table tried to decide what would "entertain" children without really considering that children are people and they do get the point of things.

More than anything I felt that these devices distracted from the true story, that of children sent away for adult reasons (insensitive parents facing divorce and a war), children faced with destitution by virtue of adult greed and circumstances (shortage of field workers due to a war and a wicked--and quite funny--uncle), children faced with the possible loss of a parent due to war, and most important, children learning to appreciate others, their actions, and their world view.  That magic should bring the lessons home is acceptable, especially in a children's story, but total nonsense seems egregious.