If you're one of the many who already have seen and love this movie, that's great. My review is for those who haven't seen it yet and are considering dropping the $ to buy the DVD.

In my honest opinion, the movie failed as an action film, as a 'dark comedy', as a drama, etc. The cartoonish violence may turn some on -- if you're the type that loves cartoony or over-the-top violence, this might be your kind of film. I admit I like other films that might be lumped into the same category -- Kill Bill, Sin City, Watchmen -- but these films also benefited from creative cinematography, unique style and production value, excellent soundtracks, etc.

The film verion of 'Battle Royale' just didn't do it for me, though. For one, the cinematography is very plain and the color saturation throughout the film is kind of faded. Maybe done intentionally, but it took away from my enjoyment. The soundstrack is vanilla, the acting is vanilla (maybe it's great for Asian films, but I dunno, because I've seen many Asian films with more compelling acting AND a better concept, like 'Thirst' or 'Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring', 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', etc.), and the violence, while "over the top", is not really "over the top" enough to make up for its cartoonishness.

Regardless of whatever social commentary they were going for, the makers of this film didn't really have me laughing, cringing, cheering, crying, or gripping my seat. I was sorta bored throughout. I didn't care about Nanahara (or however you spell it) and his little crush's struggle to survive. Why? Because you already know from the onset that they're going to make it. I also didn't really think the 'over the top' violence was all that cool. I mean, for one, the blood looks like pink grapefruit kool-aid. High school girls absorb a full clip of submachinegun rounds in the torso and then stagger about murmuring cliche lines before slumping in a heap. Mannequins with Japanese schoolkid uniforms and strapped with bags of ketchup explode on-camera. An old grumpy Japanese dude walks around talking about how bratty kids are. Is it really all that incredible?

However, I can admit that maybe I'm just missing it with this film & review. Surely lots of people really enjoyed the film, but the fact remains that I didn't. I'm upping my review from 1 to 2 stars because this isn't really a 1-star film. I didn't LOATHE it. But, on the other hand, I didn't like it either.

So if you already know you love this movie, buy it. More power to you. If, however, you're thinking of seeing it for the first time and are not fanatical about this type of cheesy Asian exploitation film... you might think about renting it or borrowing a copy first. I know I'm not the only one out there who isn't totally in love with this film, and you might do yourself the favor of checking it out before dropping your hard-earned cash on the DVD.