On a binge of horror movies, I saw four this week and this is the best.

I guess those reviewers who gave this flick one star have misunderstood it. They easily bumped it into the category of slasher movies. While it apparently seems to be a slasher, it rises above that sub-genre gracefully, turning into a psychological struggle of wills of the hunter and the hunted, the cat and mouse. Cujo is a good reference point: The mother and the dog are replaced by Penny and the hitchhiker. The hitchiker tries to disintegrate Penny, and Penny, while annoyingly whinny and incompetent early, grows for the better, ultimately gathering necessary wools to stand up and save her life.

The ending is probably a letdown, leaving it open to interpretation but the good scenes are those clausthobhic ones in the car. I recommend this to spend a nice Saturday night. I sometimes shouted at Penny's studipity but I guess the movie has succeeded in manipulating me.

Anyway, what I hated in the movie was the Hollywood stupidities and cliches. Let me count.

1. How come all drivers never look ahead on their way when driving a car and it is just at that time that a hitchiker/ a cow/ a man stands in the middle of the road? (Slash, another movie of the week, had a very similar scene (hitchiker replaced by cow and of course led to the annihilation of two young people by the slasher)

2. How come all drivers admit a hitchiker on a dark slice of road in the middle of nowhere with no traffic around after sunset and why do they accept to take him/ her to a destination which is accessible on a narrowly larged than footpath through a densely populated forest?

2. How come two young and unprotected ladies travel towards the peak of very formidable looking mountains, braving into a snowstorm in a small family car without even checking the spare tire, let alone, other equipment that would be handy at such locations, or a boyfriend, male assistant or a bigger and stronger car?

3. How come all the destination points turn out to be "no-signal" zones in this age of technology and aerospace? Why do protagonists never try to send an SMS, which can be sometimes received by the recipient phone even without any signal to talk (and in Penny Dreadful there were moments of mild signals that could quite easily transmit a SMS that seeks help).

4. How come all side or outside characters are there just to get killed as soon as they appear? (Yes, I am looking at you, the cook in the Shining, who travelled thousands of miles just to get axed as soon as he arrived in the hotel)?

5. How come those killers, while they are also flesh and blood, refuse to die at any cost while the victims say goodbye to this earth in the very first slash of knife?

The beginning and the end of this movie is almost a Cliche 101 course in this respect but as I said the middle is very worth to see it.