The Pope IS Jewish.

It's a rather sad state of affairs that virtually every movie reviewed on Amazon with any fame or notoriety is reviewed as 'excellent', 'genius', 'brilliant', insert superlative, etc.

The fact is, and most of us know this, most of the movies sold here or anywhere are mediocre at best. If you don't believe me, just go look at the reviews for either version of the Poseidon Adventure.

However I can honestly say this movie is not a mediocre movie at all. It's truly terrible. One of the very worst movies I ever had the misfortune to view.
But let me take you through the typical critic-bait scenario, just in case you're unfamiliar with the plot...

This movie is brilliant. It's brilliant comedy. If you don't think so, it's because you're not smart enough. Movies that make fun of society are funny. Why? Because society is so corrupt/venal/hypocritical/ignorant(insert calumny here) that they deserve to be made fun of. Scorn and Mirth are the same thing, aren't they? If you like watching women adore the husbands who strangle them to death then you're in the club, if you don't it's because you're not smart enough. (Are you picking up on the pattern yet?) Anyway, every smart person knows that if you can point out how ridiculous the people you hate are, you don't need to bother further with things like plot, coherency, actual humor or for that matter (gasp) sobriety. This is the Seventies, after all.

Because you see we enjoy seeing madness, cruelty, death and sexual perversion without any rhyme or reason. Why? Because it's funny! It shows how idiotic people really are! What's that? What do you mean 'why not suggest a solution instead of mindlessly ridiculing people we think are inferior to us?' Don't you get it? It's a COMEDY! What's that you say? 'Comedy and Ridicule are not the same thing? Why not try to actually be funny?' You really don't get it do you..?

For the record, Peter O'Toole is my very favorite actor. The only reason I sat through this movie the one time was because of him. If society is really as stupid and pathetic as this brain-sludge of a script actually suggests, there's certainly no purpose in pointing it out, and if it isn't, well, maybe there are more constructive approaches to the problem of societies ills. As far as Peter goes, I'm quite certain based on his biography he wasn't sober at any time before, during or after the making of this movie. But that's the point. People might think this way when they're stoned or drunk. They might even enjoy watching it, or at least boasting that they've seen it and like it. But people who really honestly think society is this bad cold and sober don't make movies about it, they get a gun, go to a public place and kill as many people as they can, themselves included. So in the end I have to say, all critical criterion given its due, psychopathy is overrated.