Without giving away the outcome, I can tell you that despite the somber subject matter, this is a *feel good* movie- in an ironically tear jerker, kind of way. ( If you watch it, you will understand why I wrote that).

The two leading stars are very convincing in their parts.

 The subject matter of human euthanasia is something many of us do not like to think about.

Euthansia is an ancient word that translates roughly into: * a good death- merciful death*.

While you become charmed immediately by the lead character's upbeat personality- at the same time you will notice his positive outlook and how he dealt with his quadraplegic status over the years is in stark contradiction to wishing to end his life.

Since the movie's plot focus, is about his desire to end his life, naturally, many viewers will be  hoping he will change his mind.

Then again,many people may relate to his predicament and completely understand his position, to be allowed to die.

When the movie ends, it will give you something to think about regarding euthanasia and  how it can never really be a black or white issue or question.

Neither does it come with a black or white answer.

So many shades of gray are here.

 But, unlike instances we have seen in America, where some people were forced to pull the plug or cease feeding *brain dead* family members, this is a man who has his mental faculties intact.

 He is of sound mind-  just not of sound body. This is his wish.

 (In  cases with brain dead people, and the ugly fights among family over whether to pull the plug or withhold food, etc- the person that is in the hospital bed, has no say.)

So there are some similarities to health situations that seem to have a poor or dismal prognosis- whether that person in the predicament is alert and reasonable or brain dead and unable to express what their desires would be in such a scenario.

When the movie begins, our lead character has already been in a quadraplegic state for over a decade.

He has a beautifully upbeat attitude, despite his circumstances and especially considering the drastic change his life has taken.

  A tragic accident while performing an act as a magician, renders him a young man that is bedridden and physically helpless.

  The life he had before the accident was so very different from where he finds himself now.  You find yourself quite surprised he does not show any sign of bitterness. To the contrary, he can be quite a humorous ham.

Still, even with a good attitude, he needs constant care for every little thing. EVERY LITTLE THING.

 When you learn he has been in this situation for over a decade, and you see he is a man of optimism about life in general-  it is easy to feel empathy for his personal belief, that due to a quality of life issue, why he would feel that he would be better off not being here.

It is not like he did not attempt to adjust to life as a quadraplegic. He adjusted and then some. He runs a radio station as it is his witty mind and quick tongue that are still intact.

 But we see that his disability is now beginning to wear him down.

It did not kill him physically- but it seems to now be wearing down his spirit.

Does he have a quality of life?  Isn't a good quality of life often subjective?

 And this is how the story begins... a very intimate view of the trials and tribulations of a quadraplegic man, who at heart- is definitely NOT a quitter.

So, you will root for him to live- and yet understand why he wants to die.

 The viewer is  left very unsure of how this will all conclude.

I liked that you felt that the movie could go either way, regardless of your personal opinions on the matter of euthanasia and how you feel about this man.

  With that thought in mind, I can  say that I recommend the movie because of this very hot button issue: the ever so controversial idea of  *mercy killings* .

As my review title states: you will also witness what is for one person to love another in the most dedicated and purest of ways.

 It is very heart touching and both lead actors do a great job in their roles; but Roshnan steals the show because his predicament is the focal point.

Aishwarya definitely can steal any show with just her beauty alone.

Her always stunning, yet soulful blue eyes, speak volumes- no matter what emotion she is experiencing.

 She plays her part well, as a woman you will easily believe is truly devoted to this bedridden man who wants so desperately to leave this world.  A different kind of love story- but that is what makes it so poignant.