The film "My Fair Lady" is an acceptable adaptation of the satire "Pygmalion" of G.B. Shaw. Acceptable because the whole essence of satire is kind of watered down in the musical; yes indeed some script was used from "Pygmalion" but still the attitude that the actors portrayed at some moments were not as "satirical" as in the book. My fair Lady is a fabulous musical itself, but if compared to the book "Pygmalion" it is not the most exact depiction of it. I believe that G.B. Shaw's ironic and satirical humor is not shown as much as it should be; the whole idea of illustrating "Pygmalion" should be placing as a main theme in the movie, the satire of the various topics in the book like the relationship between Higgins and Eliza, The deserving poor in contrast to the undeserving poor like Mr. Doolittle, etc. The strange affection /hate relationship between Eliza Doolittle and Higgins is one of the main things that represent the rare, yet exceptional factors of G.B. Shaw's satirical themes. In My Fair Lady the irony in the relationship is shown in a different way; Eliza openly shows her care and affection for Higgins during one of her musical solos, while in "Pygmalion" this wasn't shown by Eliza in such a direct way, instead it is written in way that the reader is to assume of it. Another way in which the marvelous musical My fair Lady, as I said before a great movie itself; that is, if it weren't to portray "Pygmalion", makes a change at the ending of the movie; the ending of Pygmalion clearly shows G.B. Shaw's traditionally sarcasm take place; as Eliza leaves Higgins house, marries a middle class young man, gets to run a flower shop but can't really handle the job, and ironically there was still a part of her that missed Higgins even though he's behavior towards her wasn't the best. Eliza has to adapt herself to the middle class, when all she knew about now was high class.  It was as if she were trapped inside a world she didn't want to be in anymore and didn't know anymore. In My Fair Lady Eliza gets to stay at Higgins house and not got through the changes and desires she couldn't have as in the book.