The only reason why I gave it two stars is because, I like Drew Berrymore and Demi Moore as actresses.  I happen to be over my brother's visiting, when my niece and sister-in-law was watching this mess.

Yes! We know it's suppose to be a campy chick flick of the T.V. show and not to be taken seriously, but they could have done much better with the casting and the movie as a whole. Instead, we get this Matrix/Batman wannabe, flying off the bridge, too many cameos B.S.  This movie was a disaster, and did a serious unjustice to the original series.

Since, we all grew up in the seventies watching shows like Swat, Starsky & Hutch, the Rookies and of course this, me and my sister-in-law, was discussing is, why the studios just didn't make this into a more dramatic feature film with a better cast?

I like you Drew and Demi, but I feel both of you just, didn't fit these roles.  As far as Camron Diaz and Lucy Lou

(and they are not all that) What were they smoking when they decided to cast them?  Neither one of them (in my opinion) is  NOT HOT!!!  I mean, dam!  Both of them are so caked with

make-up, their faces look 3-D.  They don't turn this man's head twice at all, their looks are average at best, so enough about them already.

What I was about to say earlier is, what they should have done is, taken the original characters from the T.V. show (Jill, Sabrina and Kelly) recast them with Hollywood's better more mature looking actresses, for example the so-called it girl today I guess, you know?  Someone like Angelina Jolie, could have been cast as the new Kelly Garrett.  Of course every

Anglo-Saxon red blooded male has to have his "Blonde Bombshell" so what the hell!  Why not the new Farrah of the 90's back then, Miss Pamela Anderson as the new Jill Monroe?  The character is practically tailer made for her.

This might sound a little controversial, not making this out to be a race issue either, but even though Charlie's Angeles didn't have a black angel, I think Halle Berry could have pulled it off cast as the new Sabrina Duncan.  If not her, than Katerine Zeta Jones.  BOOM!!!  There's your stars for the new Charlie's Angeles feature film, that should have been cast that way, several years ago, if the movie studios were serious about making this a good dramatic movie.

But, forget it, the damage is done now, so we're stuck with Miss Berrymore and these two other goofy looking, clown acting, not even qute actresses.  I'll be honest here, you young turks can rave about them all you want to (each to its own), but Diaz and Lou just don't cut it for me.  Not only that, but they both became more annoying to me through out the middle of the movie for some reason.

I think I lost interest in this junk somewhat, after Jacklyn Smith cameo apperance.  She still looks pretty good, to be honest she was the only high light(literally) to me of the movie.