Errol Flynn was a larger-than-life personality that ultimately became a ripped-out-of-the-seams caricature of a high-living, swashbuckling image he never wanted but somehow felt obligated to maintain.  Flynn knew that this is what the public wanted to see, and he felt he had to meet their expectations to continue to work. Unfortunately, it resulted in subtance abuse, three failed marriages, and a penchant to be blamed for things - whether he was involved or not.  Many myths have dogged the Flynn persona over the years - few of them true.  For example, he was never a Nazi spy, nor was a drug smuggler or slave trader in his youth in New Guinea.  His sex life is also the subject of much distortion or outright lies. In other terms, He was NOT gay, nor was he a pedaphile or statutory rapist (based on a bogus indictment of this charge because of a political feud between Warners and the LA DA), - even though his last girlfriend was under-age Beverly Aadland, who was 17 years old when they met. (Yet, most biographers speculate that she was his vengeful "in your face" to a system that had tried to bring him down in 1942).  Flynn was married three times, had four children, and - according to friends David Niven, Dennis Morgan, Buster Wiles, Ronald Reagan and wives Nora Eddington and Patrice Wymore - wanted a more traditional life. Yet, public - and studio demand - compelled otherwise.  It left him a broken old man - dying at age 50 in 1959.

  It's too bad, because the "Adventures of Don Juan" demonstrated that - even as his decline had begun - he was still capable of being the best at what made him a star and, later, a legend.  No one has really replaced him in this genre, and the film is perhaps the last of the great Warner Brothers costume swashbucklers before the genre changed to a more gritty, realistic style in the 1950's.  Yet, it is worth another look to anyone who admires that period of Hollywood film making.  Yet, it is also a sad reminder of what Flynn was capable of - and what he might have been for perhaps several more years - if the image he so indelibly created hadn't, in large part, helped to destroy him at a comparatively younger age.