Joy Ride is a horror and humor movie that came out in 2001. Joy Ride has been one of my favorite movies since I first saw it about two years ago. I did not know what to expect, but one of my friends told me that it was one of the funniest and scariest movies that they had ever seen. So, I thought I would give it a shot, and it turns out that I now watch the movie all the time, and I brought to Illinois State with me when I moved in.

 Joy Ride starts out with Lewis (Paul Walker) and his best friend Venna (Leelee Sobieski) talking on the telephone. Venna was talking about how great it would be if she had a car and could just get home at any time she wanted. Lewis, who has a crush on Venna, tells her that he has a car and will come and pick her up. So, as Lewis is leaving college for the summer and heading to pick up Venna he calls his mom while driving to Boulder Colorado, Venna's college town. His mom informs Lewis that his troublesome brother, Fuller (Steve Zahn), was put in jail again for being drunk and disorderly.  So, being the good brother that Lewis is, he picks up his brother, and his brother asks to just go home with him.

 After picking up Fuller, they keep heading to Colorado. Along the way, while getting gas, Fuller pays for someone to put a CB radio in the car. They first just use the radio as a radar detector, because the truckers will inform them if there are any cops ahead. After awhile of riding in the car, "Black Sheep and Mama's Boy" (Fuller and Lewis's CB names) Fuller thinks it would be funny to prank one of the truckers into thinking he is a girl. So, then Lewis, in his girly voice as "Candy Cane," talks Rusty Nail into thinking he's a girl. When they pull over to get a hotel room they invite Rusty Nail to come and join Candy Cane for a late night rondevu at the hotel. After Rusty Nail finds out about this, he comes after Fuller and Lewis for revenge. Eventually they tell Venna when Rusty Nail comes after them later on when she joins them for the ride home.

 Even though throughout the whole story we never actually see Rusty Nail, I was scared out of my pants all most for the whole movie. Joy Ride, I think, is one of the better thriller movies that I have seen. Joy Ride's other great characteristic that made the movie what it is, is Fuller, Steve Vahn's, humor throughout the entire story. He kept me laughing because of his smart and sarcastic remarks. If I hadn't liked the movie, I still would have been entertained just by listening to Fuller. Plus, Paul Walker and Steve Vahn are very cute, which almost all girls know and would agree with me, so that also kept me interested.

 The only thing I didn't like about the movie would have to be with Leelee Sobieski performance. I personally do not like her acting skills in general, but she did not do a great job in this movie. The fact that she was only in it half the time, I think, was a plus. It was not as if her performance was the worst I have ever seen and she was absolutely horrible, but I just think the part could have been better if played by someone who would have fit the character better.

 Overall, if anyone wanted to watch a humorous, keep you on the edge of your seat movie, I would defiantly recommend Joy Ride to them. Even though there were some small details that I did not like about the movie, it still comes out to be one of my favorites. So, go rent or buy it, you will not be disappointed.