It is a worthwhile way to spend an evening.

There is a plot, there is character development, there is suspense. Then there is New York City, swooping helicopter panoramic scenes of the UN complex along the river, and there are subdued scenes inside those buildings, from metal detectors to removing a cut circle of class from an enormous window. N.Kidman is dressed down the whole movie, in only a few places can her natural beauty shine through the fruminess, S.Pean is older, more chiseled face then i remember, the other cop a lady is entirely forgetable.

Everything is sacrificed to the continuity and slow step by step incrementalness of the action. You are aware that some details are left out so that you really know more than you think you do, that information is flowing from several directions at varying speeds, all designed to suck you up into the action and make you only aware of it. This makes the director and the writers key, and they are good, the plot doesn't lack for believability (looks like it is about Mugabe and Zimbabwe), casting such a blonde pale  thin woman like Kidman as an African is excellent, the plot is sharpened and the irony heightened vs using a black women in the part. i'm sure it was controversial, it was a good choice.

You can think about the politics, about the brutality of black on black violence that has been the news in Africa for 75(?) years but the movie doesn't push it, nor does it preach strongly, it uses it. What it ends up with, in contrast to where the action takes place (the UN) is a mild this is a human problem that needs to be solved by all of humanity, not a black African one. The street scenes of NYCity add to the conviction that different people can live together, maybe, kindof, well hopefully.

I liked the movie, i didn't have the usual nagging regrets, it completely pulled me into it, the only problem is that S.Penn has such a history and such a past profile that i was never quite able to forgot that it was an actor playing a part.

I would have appreciated more African music in the background, the end was spectacular and i wanted more. I would have appreciated more early information about who the two men where in the beginning but i realize now that it was a deliberate technic to heighten the suspension