The first 35 minutes or so was rather informative and insightful. The author did a good job of laying the ground work for why one might want to become a vegan. It dived into the reasons for some of the health issues facing mainstream America today. It explained the importance of greens, nuts, and grains to the American diet and provided a wonderful societal foundation for a healthier lifestyle. It even explained the true meaning of Organic and why "organic" only pertains to certain practices; thus negating items such as transportation, housing, and care. This documentary then delved into the horrors of factory farms. I've seen similar footage on other Amazon Prime videos and agree that the treatment of animals for the sole purpose of food is an atrocity; but this is where is it started getting political.

Unlike a lot of the other documentaries on Prime, the producer does not site any of the footage that is seen in the documentary. It leads the viewer to assume that all farms are like the ones portrayed. It even showed footage of a "family farm" where the only difference was the size of the farm but not the atrocity toward animals. This is completely unrealistic as it leaves out the farmer who genuinely cares for the livestock and commands a healthy profit as the meat is more highly valued. It completely leaves out the fact that while US law doesn't go far enough, the growing number farmers who believe in organic, free-range chicken, pork, and cattle is on the rise as the society at large is demanding change. As was seen in Food Inc., one of the farmers mentioned:"Farmers are resourceful individuals, if the public wants a healthier product, the farmer will produce." This mindset is completely left out of the equation because it doesn't fit the mantra the author is trying to convey. The incompetence reached its climax as GLOBAL WARMING was a by product of the livestock. This is due largely in part to the breathing and FARTING of the livestock. The producer then switches to a video of an activist claiming that America has more contaminated water than ever before. This is preposterous and a shining example of incompetence on parade.

Another point of fallacy is seen in the beginning of the documentary. The producer takes the subjects to a supermarket and shows the alternatives to common foods such as Tofukey, yosoy icecream, boca burgers, ect. Here's the problem that was conveniently left out: This stuff costs 2-4 times more than the mainstream alternatives. Unlike other documentaries that addressed the fact that McDonald's is often the meal of choice due to the attractive cost, this film portrays these alternatives as a simple 1 for 1 alternatives and all Americans have to do is switch - like one switches from Coke to Pepsi. This is simply not true and is not financially sustainable for struggling families who live in realville. As was mentioned in Food Inc., where $10 feeds a family of 5 at the drive thru of the Golden Arches, the same $10 barley can by 2 heads of broccoli and fresh green beans. Again, blatant misrepresentation portrayed as convenient, simplistic, and environmentally responsible.

What turned out to be a rather enjoyable and informative documentary turned into a political statement with no citations and abundantly unstantiated conjectures. It could have been a wonderful documentary teaching people the hazards of our American diet and the success of those wanting to change; instead it was riddled with inaccuracies and blatant misinformation tailored to make it seem as the viewer is the problem to our current condition and all they have to do is be veducated.