Super hero movies are a category unto themselves, and often prove difficult to review objectively. Some fans of the original comics will just be glad to see their favorite characters portrayed on the big screen. Other fans want strict adherence to the original source material. Those unfamiliar with the source material probably wont care one way or the other, but will criticize aspects of the movie they see as silly. What takes place in the pages of a comic or within the world of animation doesn't always translate well to live action. It's especially hard to judge such a movie correctly, in the face of all these compounding factors.

For me, I didn't care much for this film adaptation of Stan Lee's famous super-hero team. But I'll do more than tell you it sucks, I'll tell you why I think it sucks so you can decide for yourself if it's worth seeing.

First of all, there were numerous changes to original storyline. This almost always takes place, whether adapting a book or a comic to Hollywood, but I really resent the way Hollywood can take a popular comic series and shamelessly alter it to better-appeal to their target audience. In the comic Mr. Fantastic is married to the Invisible Woman, and they (at least to me) appear considerably older than they do in the movie. It seems as if Hollywood saw fit to reduce the ages of the characters, probably in an effort to appeal to younger audiences, and had the main characters unwed so they could throw in a sad attempt at a romantic angle. I'm sorry, but I hate the fact that they felt the need to throw in a love triangle where one previously did not exist. And the invisible woman looked nothing like Jessica Alba. This is just an example of Hollywood saying "well wouldn't it be better if the characters were all hot young people with some kind of unresolved relationship issue?"

Furthermore the source material is further betrayed by the complete rewriting of Dr. Doom, the arch nemesis of the 4. In the comics he is a super-genius, who is usually only outsmarted by Mr. Fantastic due to his arrogance and ego; and he is also a sorcerer. I see how the latter of these was omitted, as it would complicate the plot mechanics and also be somewhat harder for audiences to take seriously, but to have a Dr. Doom that isn't a genius defeats the purpose. Doom is now portrayed as a business man, and although it's suggested he has above average intelligence, this has no place in the plot, and Reed is depicted as being of far superior intellect. His character is also very shallow, with a very flimsy explanation for his transition to evil, and practically no character depth at all. The character was so flat, it's really sad.

The other characters were also fairly flat, and the storytelling dimension of the movie was very poor. The exception to this is with The Thing, who has a good subplot over his hideous transformation. Michael Chiklis is also the only decent case of acting in this whole movie. The rest of the acting is sup par and unengaging, not that there was much plot or depth for the actors to really work with. Poor dialogue plagues the film, and some of the original lines from the comics that were kept "it's clobberin' time" and "flame on" are difficult to watch real actors say without chuckling.

That's not to say that this movie has no redeeming qualities. The special effects are cool, and there are a number of comical moments in the movie that were done well. Indeed one thing that the movie has going for it is that it doesn't seem to take itself too seriously, which makes some of the aforementioned points more forgivable to the right viewer. However one big problem is how FAKE The Thing looks! They used a prosthetic body suit instead of CGI effects here, and unfortunately, it comes off looking quite unrealistic and silly. This was a major blow for me, as every time I saw his character I felt like I was watching a comedy as opposed to a serious action film.

The only thing really worth seeing here are the special effects. Which might make you assume there'd be plenty of action in this movie! But you'd be wrong. There wasn't much action at all. There's really only one major fight scene, that being the climactic battle with Dr. Doom, which was pretty unimpressive. This movie was not intense at all, and had more laughs than it did wows. And the one really saving grace of this movie is they manage to have a number of very humorous scenarios relating to the heroes' respective powers. Unfortunately not all the laughter was intended.

But a few laughs and some cool effects doesn't cut it enough for me to take my attention away from the major problems of this movie. But to be fair, I tend to be critical of this genre anyway, so fans of the genre should see this movie for themselves as make up their own minds. Let me put it this way, Spiderman was better. Those who aren't big super-hero movie fans, be cautioned. And obviously, if you aren't a fan of super-heroes at all, you should think twice and try to watch with a very light heart. But as far as I'm concerned this movie was just mindless crapola targeted at teen and preteen audiences, albeit amusing crapola.