I'll start by saying that this is my "least" favorite of all the JP's, but still a very solid film. You get to see the raptors a bit more than the first, and the T-Rex, plus there are more people running around so it gives the adventure a little more depth. The main problem i have is that all the "great" or "once great" directors seem to have forgotten there roots and now rely on the directions of computer based gaphics instead of good ole fashion modeling, scaling, and actually working with costumes instead of CGI. Now i must say that this particular film doesn't rely half as much on CGI technologie as part 3, but everyone is "giving in" to the world of computers(myself included). Technology is actually becoming "scary" with all the new innovations such as Satellite Radio, DVD players for Cars(ok like there arent enough wrecks as there is?), Copy this Copy That, Cell phones for KIDS!! my god, what ever happened to using your imagination?

At any rate most movies such as these have lost there originality, and again the mighy "dollar" must be made in sequels that never match up to there predecessors. Star Wars is another good example of a movie that should have been left well enough alone. But instead George"show me the money" Lucas had to go back and use all this modern technology to "redo" the old films. As if they werent good enough by themselves? So everyone i think(especially Hollywood) should take a good look at all the money wasted on sequels and just the overall CRAP that we don't need to buy in our everyday lives. For example on the Lost World DVD there are so many features that if anyone has this much time on there hands to actually go through it all, i feel for them. Who the hell is gonna watch the "Entire" storyboard of the movie from beginning to end? And then again who the hell cares?? Back in the days when i was a kid(the 80's) movies were classic even though we didnt know it, lets bring back some of those shall we. Society in 2005 is nothing more than a totally self absorbed, make all the money while you can before you die bunch of morons that i have ever seen, and no not just because of a DVD, but the way they want to make everyone Lazy(No wonder half the US is Obese)(No offense to people with a medical condition). I'll bet most people don't even remember "getting up" to change the channel. The movie makers are no different they just want to make the movie, make there money back and enjoy there lives. Hense the reason very few classic movies are ever made anymore. Its a shame when you see people with no food, no homes, and ones who can't walk out of there houses for fear of getting shot, or blown up, while we live it up worrying about when the next big "trend" will hit. So think about this next time you watch another DVD, if thats all you have time for. And remember the good ole days of movies, when they really "mattered". Watch Lord Of The Rings, even though its a lot of CGI effects it has heart, and so does Peter Jackson. He makes Spielburg and Lucas look like Mr.Rogers. At any rate this movie is just another Hollywood adventure film that lacks what the first had, originality. And it gave me a chance to say some things i had to say. Adios:)