Seeing the preview for this movie, I knew two things: 1) Terrence Howard would likely give a great performance, 2) it would have a great soundtrack.

I was right on both counts.  Terrence Howard is one of my favorite actors these days (see <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000BITUWU">Hustle & Flow (Widescreen Edition)</a>, even if rap music isn't your thing).  His work here as an amateur swim coach is solid.  And the music featured throughout the movie is classic '70s soul and r&b, so if you like that stuff - crank up the volume.

What I didn't know for sure after seeing the preview - but strongly suspected - was that the movie would be formulaic and predictable.  This suspicion was confirmed after viewing the movie.  But what surprised me was just how poorly the forumla is executed.  I love this kind of movie when it's well done.  Even when I know pretty much what will happen, I can easily get caught up in the insprirational rush.  This one doesn't work, for a number of reasons.  The kids who decide to form a swim team - they aren't even allowed one personality trait each.  Sure, there is the poor student who's guardian doesn't want him to be even more distracted from his schoolwork by extracirricular activities.  But for the most part, the ensemble of young actors - and one actress - who make up the underdog swim team aren't given anything specific to do.  Well, they like swimming, but that's about it.  In fact, when the all-boys team gets a first female member, nothing even slightly interesting is done with that plot development.

Bernie Mac plays the manager of the youth center - scheduled to be closed down - at which Terrence Howard and his charges train for swim meets.  Howard is a government worker who is told to close up the rec center.  Mac's character is very disgruntled by the prospect of losing the center (which is so unfrequented that he can sit around watching soap operas all day).  Later, he becomes friends with Howard and helps the swim team in what are quite frankly unspecified ways.  I liked Mac's performance quite a bit - he's funny at times, but it's mostly a dramatic performance.  But the reasons he warms up to Howard and his attempts to organize a competitive swim team are unclear.

Anyway, the movie chugs along and hits all the expected plot points as Howard helps the kids learn to take pride in themselves.  The all-black team is met with harsh and disturbing racism (including racist white audience members at a swim meet who laugh derisively when one of the black swimmers injures himself).  These elements are all handled fairly perfunctorily - the strength being found primarily in the excellent acting.

When it comes right down to it - swimming just doesn't translate particularly well to cinema.  Unlike many other sports, there are great limitations in maintaining visual interest in multiple people swimming in a pool.