Several other reviewers have gone through and related their thoughts on each of the shorts contained in Halo: Legends.  This is certainly a valid method, and helpful to the practical buyer who simply wishes to get a general idea of whether or not the product suits him/her.  I would like to take a different approach.  I will divide the episodes into thematically similar groupings, and analyze them from that standpoint.

Origins, parts I and II, is historical.  It is essentially a condensed version of the history of the Halo Universe.

Odd One Out is an attempt at comedy, plain and simple.  Whether you as the viewer find it humorous or not will likely depend on your...sense of humor.  Not being averse to the Japanese penchant for the ridiculous, I did find portions of it to be funny, though it's not comedic genius in the least.

The Package, and The Duel are both what I would consider to be action-oriented shorts, and in that way will likely appeal more to the fanbase of the Halo Series than any of the others.  The Package fills this role far better than The Duel, as The Duel contains many canonical errors that will bother serious fans of the series (from kimono-clad Elites to the number of mandibles).  The Package best captures the feel of frenetic action that has embodied the Halo Series from the first game.  In it, a team of Spartans attacks a Covenant fleet in order to recover a...well...package.  The short uses a CG-animation hybrid style (this is the only short to do so), which also lends the short more of a Western feel than the other shorts in general.

The final three episodes: "The Babysitter," "Homecoming," and "The Prototype" fall into what I would call heroic tragedy.  For serious fans of Halo, particularly ones who care about the canon, these episodes will likely elicit some of the most visceral reactions.  There is a serious disregard for realism in these episodes, from the teddy bear keychain accessory hanging from the Spartan's armor (or maybe her rifle?) in "Homecoming," to the Gundam-inspired mecha suit in "The Prototype."  However, in spite of these obvious problems, I found these episodes the most compelling.

What we often forget in the context of the Halo Universe, especially because the games are so action-centered (and feature a character capable of annihilating hundreds upon hundreds of the alien enemy without suffering so much as a scratch), is that the war between the Humans and the Covenant has been in progress for twenty-seven years by the time of the events in Halo 3 - and Humanity has been losing...badly.  These three episodes capture how thoroughly Humanity lost the war by exposing us to the level of sacrifice that was so commonplace throughout it - and which seems so needless in the light of the fact that the Covenant killed billions upon billions of people whenever they glassed a planet.  The heroism displayed by the protagonists in each of these three episodes is thus all the more tragic because we must ask, inevitably, whether their sacrifices even mattered.

So who would I recommend Halo: Legends to?  Anime fans, for one.  The shorts are experimental in nature, but retain the essence of Japanese storytelling, which emphasizes emotion over realism.  Coming from a nation that has not engaged in a real war (no, sending token SDF forces to combat zones does not count) in over sixty years, the lack of what we in the U.S. would consider "realistic" dialogue between soldiers, or "realistic" combat techniques is understandable.  However, many of those in the audience will not be so forgiving.  So the real question for those wishing to purchase Halo: Legends is: can you set aside your desire for realism and a Western storyline for ten minutes at a time while each short episode runs its course?  If the answer is yes, then you will probably enjoy Halo: Legends.  If not, then don't bother, it's not worth your time.