The Movie...
Ugh, what hasn't already been said?  It is hard to believe that after some 17 screenplays, this was the best.  With characters jumping to snap-judgements/conclusions with what is going on, to making beyond stupid decisions (I know this is a horror flick, but some of the decisions made by these characters were so ridiculous you question whether or not this movie is meant to be taken seriously or as a spoof), all the way to the ending this movie almost appears as if it is meant to be bad. 
The most glaring flaw of the movie is of course the acting, or lack there-of.  The two teen stars, Lori (Monica Keena) and Will (Jason Ritter) often overact, making you wonder if you are watching a movie or a high school play.  Ritter, who has a total of 2 facial expressions, should look into soap operas... he would fit right in.  Keena is oftentimes overshadowed by what would appear earned her the part in the film, her breasts... which Yu takes advantage of with many over-head camera shots.  Kelly Rowland proves she is a card-carrying member of the "My musical career is going nowhere fast so lets try acting" club, by coming off as annoying and unbelievable.  These kids are who we are supposed to be rooting for, but with acting performances like theirs, you will find yourself grinning at the mere hint of danger in the flick, possibly signaling their deaths and the end of the torture of watching them perform.  Robert Englund does well as Freddy once again, although his use of the "f" Bomb and the word "B*tch", borders on annoying.  Ken Kirzinger does fine as Jason, but then again so could an ape... with zero lines and almost that much body language, the role is easy to fill... thus I never understood the big deal with Kane Hodder not being casted.
Some of the positives of the movie are as follows:  The Gore, tons and tons of it here, you like Blood?  If so, you'll love the action here.  The reasoning for the two terror icons being brought together is believable thus making the movie not a total crap-fest. 
With Freddy vs. Jason you are either going to love it or hate.  There is no in-between.  Rent it and make up your mind.
The DVD...
What the movie lacks, the DVD makes up for with some very nice special features...
Deleted/Alternate Scenes... Nothing to go nuts over, although Freddy does have some good one-liners in a couple of them.
Fangoria Article... Detailing the problems with the film.  Really sheds light on everything this film went through to get made.
Multiple Featurettes...  Especially cool is the stunt feature, detailing the Jason Burning/Rave Sequence.  There is a short feature on Make-up, which discusses/shows Freddy's make up process... my only complaint on this is it didn't show any Jason footage.
Overall the DVD is pretty well stacked, the movie though leaves a lot to be desired.