I had a vague hope that the other "it missed the mark" reviews weren't accurate but unfortunately I have to agree: This film is so far removed from the biblical events as to be an entirely different story. It is as if there were several out of work "B" movie actors, some unused movie sets and a spare can of film laying around the studio. Notice I didn't mention a script, or at least one based on the events portrayed in the Bible.

The movie is basically two parts: the first half deals with Ruth's childhood as a priestess in a Moabite temple (yeah, remember that part of the book of Ruth? No? I don't either...). The second half deals with Boaz the Barbarian and his ninkompoop brother.

Upside: The actress who plays Ruth was the perfect selection for the role. She truly is a beautiful woman who really conveyed a sense of Ruth as portrayed in the Bible. She even manages to overcome most of the silliness from the Moabites-R-Us temple references.
Downside: The "B" actor who plays Boaz appeared freshly out of work as an extra in a pirate movie. The actor portraying his brother appears to have been a close friend of Foster Brooks.
What the?: The producer and director kindly include a short film of themselves introducing the movie. This is so you'll know that Ruth wasn't the name of their secretary and that someone waved a Bible in the general direction of the camera hoping some of it would "rub off" on the film.
Who the?: Who was that wandering prophet that got jammed into the story to fill Naomi in on upcoming events??? He looked just like the bad guy "Hans" from the first Die Hard movie. I kept waiting for Bruce Willis to ride in on a camel and take him out.

There is so much out of place I can't express it without giving away the story. Don't worry about the Bible spoiling the plot for you - it won't. If you've read the book of Ruth in the bible about all you'll know up front is there is a pretty lady named Ruth who does eventually marry Boaz.

Sorry that this review is horribly written, please keep in mind it's a reflection of my frustration and the "let-down" from having expected something much, much more from this movie. This is actually a better movie for those who DON'T know the book of Ruth, you won't be scratching your head and fast forwarding trying to find expected events...