This movie has a kind of "Valley of the Dolls" kitsch appeal that's hard to resist, even if it isn't very good ("Dolls" is flat-out ludicrously awful; "A Star is Born '76" doesn't rise above mediocrity). The score is mostly the kind of music your mother listened to in the 70's on AM radio. (Do people really love "Evergreen"? "Love--soft as an easy chair." Do they think those are good lyrics?) I'd thought the picture was a gigantic flop when it was released, but I've learned recently it was the second highest grossing movie of the year. And the soundtrack is the biggest seller of Barbra Streisand's career. Baffling.

Steisand is, from the moment she appears onscreen, the fully formed singer and fully self-conscious celebrity she had been for almost 15 years at that point. Which kills the whole point of the movie. And everybody who meets her character immediately just loves her. Which also kills the whole point of the movie. For this story to work, we have to see the awkward and ignored girl with talent grow, gain her confidence, convince people of her talent, and become the star who is born in the course of the movie. That doesn't happen here.

This is a vanity project. We're not going to see Streisand slaving as a background singer and told angrily "We heard your voice to loudly!" the way we saw Garland playing an extra and told angrily "We saw your face!" (Even in the very first scene, when Streisand's a nobody, the two black girls in her trio are already just backup singers.) We're not going to see a woman unsure of her talent, or that she can go further than the marginal position she holds at the beginning of the movie, as we saw with Garland. (Streisand is hesitant when Kristofferson first tries to push her onstage, but they've already cut an album for her; it's the awkwardness of the situation, not her lack of self-confidence, that holds her back.) We certainly aren't going to see Streisand accidentally slapped, and publicly humiliated by her husband, as we saw with Garland (Kristofferson's character only embarrasses himself; and intentionally punches a photographer).

Well, at least being a vanity project it looks beautiful. The cinematography is gorgeous onstage and off, and the leads look great. (Knock Streisand for wearing clothes from her own closet if you want, but they look good in that very 70's Annie Hall fashion.) I do wish she hadn't insisted on incessantly being shot with a halo of light around her head.

But the movie also has huge gaps in credibility. Kristofferson is a country singer, not an Alice Cooper (though off the music stage, he gives the only convincing performance in the movie). And why would Streisand's character be attracted to someone from that particular world? Streisand isn't remotely a rock singer, and trying to be, she seems silly.  Then there's the weirdness that the people who make up the audience for Kristofferson's character would fall in love with Streisand's sound, or that the exact same people would want to handle them both. The movie doesn't take place in anything like reality, and doesn't succeed in convincingly creating its own reality. After Kristofferson's death,  Streisand runs through the house when she hears Kristofferson's voice on a tape. She's really not familiar with tape recording? In a house with it's own private recording studio? The source of sound is a tiny portable cassette recorder. How can it be heard across the mansion? A workman in the house turns out to have turned it on and asks helplessly "How do you turn this off?" Um, you press the button marked Stop instead of Play? It's the kind of player everyone owned at that time, not some confusing piece of high tech machinery. But they needed some feeble excuse for her to momentarily think he was back again, and then have her hopes crushed. What drama!

I was always under the impression the movie was a giant flop when it came out. Yet, bizarrely, it turns out to have been the second highest grossing movie of the year. And to judge by most of the comments here, continues to be loved to this day. I can't figure out why.