This is as calculated and commercial a film as can be imagined. Rredictable from the first instant to the last, it's as shallow and lifeless as they come. At some point, somebody involved must have had an impulse that was sincere and genuine, but there is no shred of authenticity left in this deathly film. New Year's Eve is a pastiche of numerous stories, most of them retreads, acted out by a large cast of celebrities. Only a handful of characters are given the opportunity to become at all "real," and many are just shallow and annoying anyway, so the viewer has little reason to care how the various trivial complications work out (though it's obvious that they will). Anyone looking for genuine human depth in the characters will not find it, though Halle Berry and Hilary Swank do breathe life into their parts. This film it its own kind of pornography. Heaven knows there's nothing remotely sexy about it; it's just that everyone is clearly faking it all the way through in a laughingly obvious way. The soundtrack is equally heavy-handed and obvious. Even viewers who simply want to eyeball the attractive cast members will be disappointed. Everybody's bundled up and hatted or pregnant or in some other way made unglamourous (except K. Heigl in an amazingly slinky dress, but she's such an unbearable, self-absorbed character that there's no appeal). The setting -- New York -- is also presented in a flat, dull, mostly ugly manner. I thought I would enjoy this film -- just looking for a light, charming couple of hours -- but it's such a cynical construction, so utterly heavy-handed and fake, that it made me really depressed. Yeah, the narrator gives us a dumb little lecture at the end about hope or something, but at that point I was sullen and pissed off at Garry Marshall's horrible direction. He, and everyone involved in this piece of crap, should be ashamed of themselves. I hope it lost a load of money, and I advise DVD buyers... not to. If you really enjoy reading greeting cards, maybe...