I first saw this movie on a rainy Sunday afternoon when I was about 11 or 12, back when they used to have the rights to show good classic movies on regular channels...

I laughed, hysterically, out loud, through the entire movie. Yes, I know it is long, but with all the characters and slapstick scenes and silliness I have never tired of it.  My favorite part was (and still is) identifying the actors and actresses and where else I have seen them.  Some were already famous at the time (before my time!), others I recognized from later TV and movies (hey! That cop is Mr. Roper from "Three's Company"!  Wasn't that Aloysius guy on "My Three Sons"?).

My boyfriend has been raving about "Rat Race", and I have told him many many times that he just HAS to see the ORIGINAL wacky road race treasure hunt before he rates that so highly!

As for those people who complain that some comedians only have bit parts, that is the POINT.  It is called a cameo, and it is supposed to just make you say, "hey, wasn't that...?" right before they disappear off the screen.  Besides, some of those cameos are mini stories unto themselves. Jack Benny is my favorite one, a classic bit that tells a whole story with one simple facial expression and a "Well!".

Basically, it's one of my favorite movies of all time, and I hope that when my boyfriend sees it he will know why too!  :-)

I am still laughing, and watching it on TV right now even though I have the DVD (thank you AMC!)!

Ethel Merman, over the top and PRICELESS!!!!!!!

The hapless Ray and Irwin and their poor gas station on its first day of business... oh my goodness.

Jonathan Winters tearing everything to bits like a crazed Hulk!

Phil Silvers?  Come on!  Evil and awesome.

Even Spencer Tracy on the phone with Ginger and Billie Sue...

One should appreciate the classic slapstick, the nutty impossible situations, the fact that a G rated movie can still be hysterical (what, no swears?), and the individual performances combining to be one big mixed up bag of silliness!

Never mind the length, or that you want more of one character and less of another, or that you don't get the point of the cameos...don't overanalyze...just sit back, enjoy, and LAUGH!