To say this is a good or bad movie depends on the criteria on which you judge it. As a brainless action/horror move, it works. As a sequel to a legendary series, it is one of the biggest disappointments in film history. 
I got the whole Alien series in one set even though I really only wanted the first two. Hey it was cheaper. And I was surprised that when I watched the third film how much more I liked it. So I was feeling brave and watched Resurrection. You see I had seen it in the theater and almost walked out I was so disgusted. In those two hours I could have been doing something more fun, like carving bars of soap in to little funny shapes. ... Seeing it again reminded me of what I was missing. A lot of nothing and a lot of soap carving.
This movie has all the ingredients but has forgotten the recipe. A sequel should improve on or at least be as good as the movie(s) that have come before it. This is not easy and rarely ever happens. But that does not stop filmmakers from trying. There is a good cast, good enough effects, and lots of money involved. But what the 4th film does not have is a decent story. There is no character depth or development, no reason to care if they live or die. And if I don't care about what is going on, than why bother seeing it? The plot is equally thin. So they cloned Ripley for the alien. Most people with any sense would think that messing with things that bleed acid and bite off heads is a bad idea. And why would her DNA have anything to do with the alien's? They are two separate species after all. The answer is; because they want to make a quick box office buck. Or what about her memory? Why would a clone remember anything? That could have been an interesting subplot to the film. If I pay to see a movie, I expect it not to insult my intelligence. The rest of the movie is so lacking in sense that it's practically brain dead. Anyone who stayed awake in science class could see the logical holes in this movie... 
Okay so ignore the flat characters, non-existent story and moronic plot. ...what does it offer? I wish I could say there was a single point where I was surprised or startled. If it looks like they should not go in there, than they will probably get attacked. Sure enough that is what happens. Surprise, surprise. The effects are a mixed bag; the CGI stuff looks good except it looks like CGI and the alien puppets look good except they look like puppets. There really is nothing here that we have not already seen in better films. The action is not as fast and furious as Aliens, nor is there any suspense or mystery like Alien. And the series did not end gracefully like in Alien3. I was not impressed with the acting. Most everyone dies, so they never really need to portray an interesting character. Weaver could have practically phoned in her lines. Granted they mutated Ripley, but it's a tired last-ditch effort for a character that we already knew everything about almost ten years ago. The other equally capable actors are given little to work with. That's a shame since there is some real talent in this film. At least the filmmakers did sort of try to give us a few new things. But did we really want to see a Queen pregnant? Was any of the silly stuff with the "Newborn" needed? ... More like a zombie than a phoenix, it has come back to remind us how much better the first two films are.
Someone once said; "They do not make B movies anymore, they just give them multimillion dollar budgets and call them A movies". This is not far from the truth. By now we understand the alien concept, we know how it works, the formula is used up. The only thing left to show are people getting their heads bit off. And how much of that have we already seen? Time to move on. ...I would avoid this film at all costs. ... There is little to look at on the DVD. The others have some interesting "making of" features, even with some cool behind the scenes footage and cast and crew interviews. There is nothing like that, just the theater trailer and a feeble attempt at a "making of" that is hardly worth watching. But if you should see it, then be prepared. ... Don't say I did not warn you.