I have found The Closer mesmorizing and thought provoking trying to unravel the mystery as Deputy Chief Brenda Lee Johnson works the case with her special homicide unit. The cast is absolutely THE BEST and their growing respect for their Chief is the underlying premise through all the cases in this first year. Kyra Sedgwick is outstanding playing the role of a strong, highly intellectual, southern woman that is more than competent in her role as Chief, but who has a difficult time gaining the trust and respect of her detectives.  Captain Taylor, played by Robert Gossett, is a jealous, malicious, "small minded" individual that isn't beyond lying or exaggerating situations about Chief Johnson to have her removed from her job. This is because he was next in line to be Deputy Chief and was passed over for promotion for this southern belle that doesn't do her job like anyone ever has from the LAPD's perspective.

The script moves quickly and draws in multiple scenes from Brenda's home life to show that she is just an average human being with weaknesses and pitfalls that she has to relate to. The dialog between characters is witty and will pass you by if you are not listening closely. There are also some great non-verbal gestures that help make a complete picture of the various individuals that are working with Brenda on her squad. There is subtle as well as outright humor. My favorite is in the Season 1 finale where a crime scene has been taped off and all her detectives are there except for her and Sergent Gabriel (Corey Renolds). Sergent Provenza is the senior detective on the scene and some light banter starts about who is in charge of the scene. Provenza (G.W. Bailey) then flows into a beautiful southern drawl and graceful walk and approaches all of the other detectives, mimicking the Chief, to give them their assignments on the case, making sure he adds politely "Thank you" after each request as Brenda is known for doing. The rest of the team is laughing and having fun with this routine when in walks Dept. Chief Johnson. She knows that she has been paid a major compliment by her team with their joking, and she actually supports Provenza's recommended delegations. And as she leaves the crime scene she reminds her squad that the  crime tape needs to remain up until everything is looked at and waits for Provenza to finish her usual sentence, "because this is a crime scene, yaall".

Season 1 was nominated for a number of awards for both Sedgwick and the entire ensemble cast for their work this past season.

The DVD has bonus coverage of unaired scenes - scenes that were cut during final editing for each show that provide a little more character development.

If you haven't seen The Closer on TV yet - it is on Monday nights at 8CST/9EST on TNT.