I was there for the concert and it was great. Joe was super as usual giving his all. The concert sold out in about 20 mins. There was a second night added later. It was almost a duplicate of the one earlier in the year at westbury but for the addition of guest performers. Been looking forward to the dvd. I hope it does it justice. I do have to add that even though I liked both concerts last year, his live at the Albert Hall was my favorite.

Update after release
The more i see it the more i like it.  Joe gave another great performance. This concert was augmented by some great blues singers. When Joe pairs up with Beth Hart it is really great. Beths performance in sinners prayer brought strong reminesence of the immortal Janis Joplin. With Joes guitar getting into heavy blues and Beths singing there is magic and it is like capturing lightning in a bottle. I look forward to their collaboration on an album together. What a combination! paul rogers too made a good pairing with Joe.  We all know Joe can sing and needs little but he had a good idea putting his playing guitar with other singers. This is what makes this a standout concert to own with albert hall. The only disappointment with this dvd is they left out some of the concert like just got paid and sloe gin two of my favorites. I was seeking a complete replay of the experience and didnt get it but this is still extremely worthy whether you were there or not. The beacon is a must have with albert hall. Enjoy and keep an eye on Beth Hart.
New addition:
Beth hart and joe bonamassa album is out and the title is "dont explain". After listening to the collaboration album the first time i thought it was so so but after a few more times it got better as i listened to it. Sinners prayer was better on the dvd but most of this album has style and Beth can really sing the blues with her own imprint not just singing in the style of Janis but with other influences present to form her own way of warbling. Chocolate jesus is very catchy too and your heart is as black as night is a sultry affair. Joes production company put out this album and beth has a future. They team well together. Buy this one too, i dont think you will be disappointed.