Over the years, Hollywood has taught us not to have much faith in sequels.  Legend of Zorro is no exception to that formula.  While not horrible (if you're interested enough in the franchise, its certainly worth seeing once), Legend lacked all the charm, sharp wit, exhilarating action sequences, and tight plot that made Mask of Zorro so popular.

The story opens ten years following the events of Mask of Zorro.  Impoverished California is holding the vote for statehood.  Naturally, there must be a loose cannon out there somewhere who is willing to go to extremes to stop the ballots from reaching the governor.  The resident psycho shows up in the form of Jacob McGivens, convincingly portrayed by Nick Chinlund.  So, it's Zorro to the rescue.  We get the idea this was supposed to be his last gig, but now he's not so sure, and Elena's upset.  Alejandro/Zorro doesn't spend enough time with their young son Joaquin.  He's taking risks that aren't necessary any longer as statehood is imminent ... because apparently statehood is the solution to everything.  So, we're faced with a messy situation, a divorce, Alejandro's drunken binge, and Elena's courtship with smooth talking Frenchman Armand who - surprise, surprise - turns out to be the big bad of the flick.  All in all, I whole heartedly agree with the Amazon.com review that states there is just too much plot here.  I gave the very brief, bullet point's version.  Toss in all the subplots, twists and turns, and ridiculous scenes such as Joaquin's ruler duel with his teacher, and you've got a hodgepodge of plot that never knows which direction to go.

The acting is admirable, considering what the cast had to work with.  They were likely just as confused by the direction of the movie as the average viewer.  Still, Antonio Banderas shines in a part absolutely tailored to fit him, Catherine Zeta-Jones is always a treat, and Rufus Sewell has proven time and again he suits the cool, collected, debonair villainous role just fine.

Still despite the talent, the actors just couldn't save this script.  Nothing ever seemed to click for this movie.  Nothing sparked.  Nothing moved me to really sit up and pay attention.  What made Mask of Zorro great has vanished, and we're left with a cheap imitation merely trying to capitalize on the popularity of the prequel.  Sorry, but in order to ride the coattails of a previous success, you really can't wait seven years.  Perhaps if the sequel had been tackled sooner, something better would've shown up on screen.  But I guess we'll never know as this was likely the death of the recently revived Zorro franchise.