on Akira Kurosawa "The Seven Samurai"
the "Magnificent Seven" a Mirish production and
released through United Artists and Director
by Oscar nominated John Sturges is one
of the best American Westerns ever made. 
It stars Yul Brenner and Steve McQueen, Charles
Bronson, James Coburn and Robert Vaughn as
a couple of hired gunslingers asked to help
a couple of Mexican farmers get their village
back from the control of an evil and bloodthirsty
bandit named Calvera. (Eli Wallach). 
The movie is just brilliant. It starts of, telling
us the story of how the village is terrorized by
this evil bandit, and from their it just the
great exploits of the 7 gunslingers who are brought
together to fight for the justice of the
Mexican people. 
Yul Brenner, and Steve McQueen play Chris and Vin, a couple of honorable but tough gunmen who don't
take any crap from anyone. 
Their first intro in the movie is great. 
They are riding their horse carriage through
a western town full of goons that want to kill
the. 
As they ride across this town, they from all angles
kill the bad guys who try to get them from
windows, horses and other places. 
Eventually their great exploits get the exploits
of the Mexican farmers. 
The Mexican farmers tell their tale of the bandits
who are destroying their village and leaving their
families hungry. 
So Chris goes on his quest to gather more
skilled gunslingers to get these bandits. 
This other great gunslingers consists of Charles Bronson and Robert Vaughn. 
What I love about this movie, besides the great
musical score is that their is a story about all
the gunslingers. They all come from different
backgrounds and have their own skills to bring
to the table come game time. 
"It's only a matter of handling a gun, it's no
big deal" -This great line by Chris (Yul Brenner)
shows the cool and modest demeanor that the
good hearted gunslingers have. 
Their is a Special Edition DVD of this classic
and the DVD is one of the best DVD's ever made. 
It includes a special documentary on the film with
rare interviews with Steve McQueen, Eli Wallach
and Yul Brenner. 
It also goes into detail about the making of the film and how many movie studios did not want to release it. 
The DVD comes with 2 special trailers of the movie
which show it's brilliance. 
This 1960 masterpiece is one of the best American
movies made and one of the best westerns made. 
Sergio Leone is most popular for directing Westerns like "The Good ,The Bad and Ugly" and "For a Few
Dollars" so if your into great action and music,
check this terrific movies out too.