I think the folks such as Alex Jones are on to something in the sense that America (the world?) is full of greed, collusion, and corruption. However Alex Jones tries to take it to the next level and introduces the concepts such as the New World Order. Does it exist? Maybe, I'm not really sure. Some things mentioned in Jones's documentaries make you think but one thing I can never get passed with any of his films is this..

If the government and media is run by puppets, elites, and New World Order members why does Jones constantly use news reports, government studies and reports from these puppet, elite organizations to prove his case? If they are all corrupt, bought off, following their agenda etc, ANY report or news story issued by them has to be of suspect and therefore CAN'T be used as evidence! It is probably just all propaganda to further their agenda, right? ...... Right?

If Alex Jones truly wants to be credible he has to get off the Internet, CNN, MSNBC and every other news/government site and actually do some hard research and investigation to obtain his OWN evidence that proves his position. Showing up at the Bilderburg meeting with a bullhorn shouting at the attendees proves nothing (for example). The fact the meeting takes place and powerful people attend, proves NOTHING. It's this kind of sensationalism that detracts from Mr. Jones. Everyone can have an opinion and I appluad Mr. Jones for his passion however until he introduces independant, confirmed, hard facts to back up his assertions his position will never have much credibility.

This film contains less of the sensationlism and more dialog which is nice however if you listen to Mr. Jones radio program the justifications for some of his opinions are suspect. One thing is fairly apparant, at least to me, and that is America does have a financial crisis that we are going to have to deal with. I think Mr. Jones may do himself a diservice focusing on Obama. As Mr. Jones admits in the film both parties are corrupt and working together to further their own greed. Adding the Obama name may appeal to right wing audiences however it turns off the left because they just look for the Obama attacks so they can refute them rather than listening to the message. This would seem to go against what Mr. Jones is ultimately after--exposing the scam that was leveraged against the American people.

** One thing I will commend Mr. Jones for is that all of his films are available on YouTube at no cost and he encourages people to make copies and distribute his films in order to get the message out. For me, this says something about his sincerity and passion for these subjects and while I'm sure he makes some money from these films he isn't solely about the buck.