M. Hulot's Holiday is a classic completely deserving of the term.  Other Amazon reviewers who have given it five stars have done a superb job of describing its many excellent attributes.  I would like to strongly echo the point that it would require multiple viewings, at least on my part, to follow and understand the various gags, images, and characters.  Some of the routines are subtle or require knowledge of French culture; others are straight-forward slapstick, such as the young men who run into each other while distracted by the beautiful girl.  I found the variety to be both rich, engaging, and enthralling.  Film viewing may be passive compared to reading, but watching a work of such creative artistry is at least the least passive form of cinema viewing.  One must focus on and engage with such material to follow it.

Hulot's Holiday offers an informative portrait of French society in its depiction of an assortment of mostly French vacationers at the beach.  But I was even more interested in how the film presents human qualities common to people everywhere--the longing for friendship and community, the uncomfortable place of the misfit or individualist, the traditions and interests that draw people together.  In this regard the ending was very striking.  As the various vacationers take leave of each other at the end of their time at the beach, it appears that most have grown closer to one another and are saying their farewells with sincere regret.  Initially no one takes notice of the eccentric M. Hulot, who had trouble fitting in in the first place and had further damaged relationships with his inadvertent setting off of a huge store of fireworks.  Hulot is pathetically trying to find someone to shake hands with and all are avoiding him.  But just when it seems as if no one has any regard for him, several characters--the elderly British lady, the old gentleman tied to his wife, and the children, fondly wish him well.  The film ends on this, to me, optimistic note, that within the diverse and sometimes aloof human community, there are individuals out there who will appreciate Jacques Tati's Hulot, and any other character for that matter.  God made people to exist in relationship with each other, not to drift into lonely isolation and proud independence.  And while that may be harder or easier depending on one's background and personality, there is friendship and true understanding out there for every type, as long as one retains at least some capacity for the giving of one's self.  Hulot, who was an unintentional menace at times, played table tennis with the children, offered rides in his ridiculous car and preserved the genteel manners of a by-gone age.  His gestures did not go completely unnoticed.

The Criterion print is outstanding.  This film is certainly worth owning for those who enjoy watching such a film multiple times.