Allow me to mention first that ATONEMENT is neither an epic love story, nor an epic war movie despite what I have concluded from the trailer.  The first time I saw the trailer for this film, I knew I had to see it, not because I have read the book, but because I was intrigued by the premise of the story.  Jealousy and betrayal seemed such good basis for a grand love story.  And after garnering several nominations from the sadly unglamorous Globes this year, and now the BAFTAS, I knew that I couldn't put off my trip to the movies.

The opening scene of the movie and the way the title ATONEMENT itself is typed letter by letter is suggestive of its import to the movie.  The first part takes place on a hot summer day at an English country house.  We meet thirteen-year-old Briony Tallis, an aspiring writer with an avid imagination.  Briony has a crush on Robbie, the housekeeper's son, which is instantly apparent to the viewers from her first conversation with him as she invites him to see her play.  This film proves how we should be cautious of young girls with a fertile imagination.  In the scene where she sees Robbie and Cecilia by the fountain, one could almost feel the hurt and jealousy in Briony's eyes.  And thus is the extent of her fanciful imagination and petty jealousy that when she witnesses encounters beyond her comprehension, Briony falsely accuses Robbie of a crime he did not commit, an accusation that would alter their lives forever.

The film quickly fast forward five years to wartime London. While the lie hasn't destroyed Robbie and Cecilia's love, its devastating impact forces them apart.  The film now follows Robbie as a soldier in France during the Dunkirk evacuation.  Here, we are greeted by several minutes of haunting images of the horrors of war.  The scene moves in an almost delirious pace ending with our hero in a feverish state.  Moments later and we are taken to a London hospital where we see a benevolent Briony working as a nurse.  Her aspiration hasn't changed, but she is wracked with guilt and intent on making amends for her mistakes.  In the second and third part of the film, so much focus is made on Robbie and Briony's lives that we end up losing sight of Cecilia. Before we know it, it is decades later and Vanessa Redgrave appears as an older Briony, where the story provides an unexpected twist.  Redgrave delivers a compelling performance in the very few minutes she appears leaving a lasting impression to the viewers.

James McAvoy and all the Briony characters provide quite outstanding performances and, once again, Keira Knightly pouts - and smokes - her way through the film.  My gripe, which initially left me detached in the beginning, was the lack of background on Robbie and Cecilia's relationship.  I felt that another five minutes or so of character development would have added credibility to Robbie's feelings for the haughty Cecilia. Instead, it came across as more of a deep and unsated sexual attraction (quickly remedied in the library).  I also found the shifts in time quite distracting.  The cinematography, however, is superb.  That long, continuous take at Dunkirk is amazing (although that moving ferries wheel was distracting and seemed rather inappropriate for the mood).  The film score is wonderful and very evocative of the grief and heartbreak of the characters.  Oh, did I mention that green dress was stunning?  All in all, I'd say it was a good movie, though I don't believe it lived up to the hype.