The film The Last Man on Earth and its contemporaries, Brides of Dracula, Blood and Roses, Black Sunday, and Dracula, Prince of Darkness, each portray vampires in a slightly different way, yet there is a common thread in each film. These films are variations, to some extent, of the original Dracula movie that was released in 1931. This film has greatly influenced the portrayal of vampires on the big screen in its predecessors, then and today.  
In the original Dracula film, the unblinking Count Dracula is, at first glance, a dark, debonair and dashing gentleman. Unlike the vampires in The Last Man on Earth, he appears to be a normal person in that there is no indication that he is deceased. As the movie progresses, his disturbingly inhuman qualities surface, making him a truly frightening individual. He bites his victims on the neck to drain their blood. At various times during the film, he changes from a human to a bat. He has to sleep in a coffin containing dirt from his homeland. He retreats from garlic and crosses. In order for him to enter a home, he must be invited in. He has no reflection in a mirror and is killed by being impaled with a wooden stake through the heart. There is also the stereotypical plot of the hero and his love interest, usually his fianc&eacute;e, whom Dracula seems bent on adding to his harem of the dead. The hero has rescue his love and this usually leads to a showdown between man and monster, with the monster losing. 
In the film Brides of Dracula, the depiction of vampires is similar in nature. The vampire bites his victims on the neck, and he is terminated by a wooden stake through the heart. Blood and Roses, released in 1961, has a slightly different theme. It is an adaptation of the novel Carmilla. In this film, the vampire is female. Her spirit inhabits the body of one of her relatives and in that way, she is reborn. Black Sunday runs along the same lines with the lead vampire being female, but it has a little twist. In addition to being a vampire, she is also a witch. Princess Asa (the vampire) is sentenced to be burned at the stake by her own brother. As her body is consumed by the flames, Asa brandishes her future relatives with a curse. After she is killed, her body is buried in a crypt, with her coffin guarded by a cross to keep her from rising again. 200 years later, the cross is damaged and she rises from the dead. Much like in Blood and Roses, she takes a female victim, who is a relative, and tries to take over her body. In Blood and Roses, the victim was willing and accepted the take over. In Black Sunday, the victim is taken forcefully and will be killed to renew Asa's life force. She is found out, and stopped before her victim is killed. 
Dracula, Prince of Darkness has all of the clich&eacute;s common to vampire movies of this period: the dashing gentleman, the coffins, the transformation from man to bat, etc. Even the plot has a similar theme. Hero, his fianc&eacute;e, and friends stay in a foreboding castle-like home, against the warnings of the townspeople. Come to find out, the home is the final resting place of Dracula. He is resurrected and the chaos begins. Of course, Dracula captures the hero's fianc&eacute;e with the plans of making her one of his own. A showdown ensues with Dracula once again being put to death. In this film, however, it is not by the stake. Dracula meets his demise in a frozen river when the local clergy realizes that the water flowing under the ice is fatal to vampires. 
The portrayal of vampires in The Last Man on Earth is much different from any other vampire movie produced at this time. The characters become vampires through a disease rather than getting bit; though those that do not already have the virus can become a vampire if bitten by an infected person. They are more like zombies than vampires. The viewer can tell by their appearance, walk and speech that they are dead. Unlike the other vampire movies, the vampires remain in their human form (if you care to call it that) rather than transforming into bats. They are allergic to garlic rather than afraid of it. They are averse to mirrors, though they can see (as can the viewer) their reflections. The main character, Morgan, uses the garlic, mirrors, and crucifixes more like a shield. In Dracula, these same items almost seem to frighten the Count. A select group of those that have contracted the disease find a way to curb the affects of the illness in that they do not appear as the others do. They are able to function normally and are only mildly allergic to garlic.  The affect of crosses on this group obvious in the last scene of the movie where they are all gathered in a church in that they are not affected. None of those infected with the virus are required to sleep in coffins to regenerate, as do vampires in the other films, though they do sleep during the day and are very adverse to daylight. They are put down with a stake through the heart just like in the other films. 
The differences in these movies are what made them appealing to movie audiences years ago. But there also needs to be an element of continuity to the characteristics of the monster. Constant changes and inconsistent distinctive qualities make the monster less believable. The different variations in each film kept the viewers interested and coming back for more. Dracula had the dashing gentleman who "vanted to suck your blood." The Last Man on Earth had vampire zombies who stalked the streets at night, calling for the only person left that was not already a member of their horde.