I have already written enough about the 1976 version of "Helter Skelter" and I have just notice something. Customers, PLEASE becareful when purchasing. This one says (2004) THIS cover is for the 1976 version and not the 2004 version.

You will be sooooo very disappointed to pay good money for the 2004 version with out having watched the 1976 version. Be sure to read the packaging closely because the two movies ARE of the same subject, but NOT the same quality at all.

As I have responded to another customer (which my response for the 1976 is a review/response to this version and is already quite lengthy and very positive about the 1976 release). There are TWO different versions and the second was a remake. There are differences for every package.

The cover art may have been released differently within this decade BUT could be the 1976 version and yet someone may inadvertantly upload the 1976 cover art when they are REALLY trying to sell the 2004 version remake.

Please be very careful as this can be exasperating to expect one version ONLY to get a version that doesn't even meet up to the original.

Make sure that the seller has the version that you want and the version most popular is the 1976 version with Steve Railsback as Charles Manson.

Double check your purchasing and know which version that you are investing in because the sellers can confuse the two and there have been mix ups like this whenever someone uploads a varying cover art , however, a completely different version.

The 1976 version is THE CLOSEST that you will EVER get to what that period was like and it is much scarier than the remake. The remake scared America (Once again) the night that they were going to air it and once it was aired, it was a joke and not even as close to the 1976 version.

Many people thought that the REMAKE would stir up "copy cat Mansons" and this was a TRUE CONCERN and was even written in the newspapers before it aired that night. It was a big deal for the veterans (those of us who are old enough to clearly remember the actual case) of this case.

We lived in California at the time that the remake was announced to be aired and (not for the same reasons, but because the case was sill fresh in our minds back then in the 1970s and that as a country, we were scared of this type of criminal, it was a new type of criminal at that time ---1970s---and it was something that many of us just did not understand and were frightened of the reality of this monster) there was the same tension that was in the air when the 1976 version aired and America had a reason to be nervous because THAT 1976 version hit very close to home, particularly if you live in California or are a native of California (doesn't matter which direction---Manson had a very, very long reach when he was younger and powerful at that time).