Overall, I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who has an interest in American history.  Nevertheless, a few of the liberties taken with the characters and historical inaccuracies are too much to warrant a  5-star rating.
Here are just three examples:
1. Washington's Language -  Although Jeff Daniels's portrayal of Washington as a hot-tempered,  foul-mouthed, flawed hero appeals to our modern cynicism and desire to  debunk the myths behind our heroes, there are some serious questions as to  the film's accuracy on this front.  George Washington did have a volcanic  temper, but he had learned to control it - and that was part of the  strength of his character.  The movie depicts him as being almost  constantly frustrated and bordering on an outburst.  This does not reflect  the truth as can be evidenced by the reaction many of Washington's  subordinates had on those RARE occasions when Washington did lose his cool.  Were he as temperamental as Daniels portrays him, the outbursts Washington  DID have wouldn't have been as significant to those around him as they  were.  In addition, the language attributed to Washington in this film is  in direct contrast with Washington's own orders against cursing.  I don't  question the fact that a few words may have slipped now and then, but it's  very inconsistent with the historical record to portray Washington as  foul-mouthed as this film does.
2. Alexander Hamilton was not  Washington's aide at the Battle of Trenton.  He was an artillery captain.  He did not come into Washington's service until later.
3. The exchange  between Horatio Gates and Washington was clearly overblown for dramatic  effect.  It's no secret that the two didn't like each other, but there's no  evidence to support the film's contention that Washington threatened to  have Gates shot.  
I don't want my criticisms to make it seem like the  movie had no merit.  Howard Fast and the film's production team do an  outstanding job in showing just how desperate the American situation was  prior to Trenton.  For this alone, the movie is well worth watching.