Ok, so I'm a half hour into the movie, and I'm falling asleep here on my couch. I rented "The Return" as part of a usual Saturday horror-film fest. The PG-13 rating was the first thing that caught my attention...however, there have been a few good PG 13 horror films, at least in my opinion (What Lies Beneath, The Ring), but they are somewhat of a rarity. I guess I should have figured that this one staring Sarah Michelle Gellar probably wouldn't stand the test of taste. So what's missing?

A good horror film is like a good speech, book, article....what not. You have an introduction, a body and a conclusion. Well, we start off with an introduction. It was good, nice set-up, good acting, great environment. However, the introduction never seems to end. When you're 45 minutes into the film and so far all you've seen were a few flashy images, loud smash cuts, and eerie music, as the main character walks around in circles, it's just time to start something new. The scariest part had to be when I ran out of ice cream! In element we've gone from horror film to drama, with little to no plot advancement. Then we start a romance which seems way out of character to me for a career obsessed traveling sales-woman. If anything, this movie is more of a drama about strange stalkers who all seem to specifically go after Sarah (well, she is hott...).

Reality: The film seems pretty real, all except for one spot where she reaches for a knife on the stairs after being cornered, yet she caries a switchblade in her boot...what?? Yet the rest of the film seems to be pretty realistic and the characters act somewhat reasonable.

Plot: Ok, so it's not very intriguing. The story is a drama, not a horror film. Don't expect to be scared, but you'll probably jump at a few of the smash-cuts. Most of the plot carries Sarah around as she tries to figure out her past and why she's connected to this small Texas town. The creators gave a bit too much away too early and you figure most everything out before the third act. Nothing new, nothing interesting....it's just as it is. There's an interesting final twist at the end, but that's going to just about cover it. The final scene is just a simple fade to black. Everything comes together, and all is as it should be in the world.

Effects: Yeah, um...virtually, there are no effects. So if you're looking for monsters, blood, gore, that sort of thing, don't rent this guy. There are a few vehicle wrecks which were pretty exciting, but that's about all the icing on this cake...

Film elements; Acting, camera, lighting, sound, music....the rest is all about what you'd expect from a common drama. It's all placed together pretty well in a nice coherent manner. It's definitely a budgeted film, and lives up to hollywood standards by all means. Definitely technically sounds. A slight desaturated color scheme spills over the film's "style," and some strange quick zoom in, blur, quick zoom out type camera work adds to it. I'm not sure I particularly enjoyed this, but it's something I haven't seen to often.

All-in-all, it's you average film, nothing new, nothing exciting, but it should please the drama or thriller fans. It's definitely no horror film and will provide little excitement to the die-hard horror fan. I might rent this on a rainy day with my girlfriend, but I wouldn't add it to my collection.