Alas, poor Leonard Peltier. He has been unjustly framed by that agency of evil, the FBI. Now you can experience the real, behind-the-scenes story of what really happened at the Pine Ridge Reservation in 1975. God bless Robert Redford and the makers of this film, and God help poor, unfortunate Leonard Peltier.
Gimmee a break. This is audience manipulation at its most chillingly effective. The FBI may be evil and racist, and the Native Americans in this film were treated unfairly, but only half the story is told here, and most of it is radically subjective. Completely hypothetical re-enactments of the incident, a la Unsolved Mysteries, destroy any hope of fairly treating this material.  The only law enforcement official appearing on the video insists that he wants these men to pay with their lives. Were all interviewed authorities as bloodthirsty as this? Or as "unfair" and "corrupt" as the judge?
Granted, this film is a gigantic commercial for Peltier's freedom, and as such does its job.  But I never liked commercials; I don't want to be sold a product that's hyped up with sentiment and dramatic musical scores unless I'm positive it is the truth.  Personally, all hope of getting hooked by Michael Apted's line disintegrated with the introduction of the devious "Mr. X." His inclusion self-destructs the film's persuasiveness, and anyone with an ounce of common sense will be skeptical as to Peltier's refusal to name Mr. X due to some b.s. code of honor.
If you're willing to bellyflop into Apted's biased concoction, the film will convince you -- just as Leni Riefenstahl's "Triumph of the Will" influenced thousands of Germans to support the roasting of Jews as a national pasttime. When dealing with propaganda, one must be a bit skeptical. Oh, and didn't Michael Apted direct the latest Bond film, "The World is Not Enough," among others? Uh-huh, I thought so. I'm afraid Leonard Peltier is a poor James Bond, with all due respect to the manipulative mastery of Apted.
Try comparing and contrasting a variety of stories to form what really happened to Peltier and his friends. And if you're in the mood to fall for a brilliantly constructed documentary, rent a Riefenstahl Nazi pic.  --  Mr. X