Every once and a while Hollywood surprises us by making a movie like it used to.  In this generation most movies contain top-notch special effects, dizzying action, unabashed, explicit sex and gore, and less-than-decent plot and character development.  Needless to say, many of these shallow films are deeply unsatisfying.

But every once and a while Hollywood makes a movie without these things.  The Mask of Zorro is one of these movies.

It is a rousing revisiting of the classic 20s and 30s serials, in which "the fox" defeats the villains, saves the peasants, and gets the girl all in one day.  This time the original Zorro, Diego de la Vega (Anthony Hopkins), loses everything within the first ten minutes of the film.  After Diego's last Zorro ride, the evil Californian governor Rafael Montero (Stuart Wilson) raids his home, kills his wife, and takes his infant child Elena to be raised as his own.  Diego is thrown in prison for twenty-some-odd years before he escapes and finds common thief Alejandro (Antonio Banderas), who had a brief brush-in with Zorro in the past and has his own quarrels with Montero and his men.  Diego must train Alejandro to take his place, all the while trying to connect with the daughter (Catherine Zeta-Jones) who doesn't know he exists.

The best thing about the film is the acting.  All the actors are perfect in their roles (and who knows? Maybe the roles were written with the actors in mind).  Antonio Banderas plays Alejandro with strong gusto, and his scenes with Zeta-Jones sparkle.  Anthony Hopkins brings a level of dry wit to one of his trademark mentor roles.  Stuart Wilson makes a nice addition as Montero, though Matt Letscher seems a bit dry in his role as Montero's sick-minded general Capt. Love.

The action bits are done quite nicely, and the sword duels are well choreographed by the legendary sword-master Bob Anderson (he did sword fights in Pirates of the Caribbean, Lord of the Rings, and The Princess Bride).  The editing is slick and polished, and the score by James Horner (of Titanic fame) is lush and memorable.  The camera twirls and swirls are swift and controlled, capturing many vibrant colors and angles, especially during the steamy Latin dance between Alejandro and Elena.

Every once and a while, Hollywood surprises us.  And what a pleasant surprise this is.