Calling this movie a murder mystery violates the Trades Description Act. Even calling it an "Agatha Christie Country House Murder" is misinformation because none of Christie's detectives are involved, and it's frankly not in her style. When you first read a Christie story, you don't know who did it until the last chapter. There is no mystery about this murder. The only conflict about it is "Will the people in the house at last catch on?" and "Will they tell?"

So, don't buy it if you are expecting thrills and chills.

This is really "Upstairs / Downstairs", set in 1932, [twenty to thirty years from the days of Mr. Hudson, Rose and Mrs. Bridges]  Nothing has greatly changed on both levels, except that this upper class are on a higher social strata than the Bellamys. Country house folk, instead of urban political folk.

The 'upstairs' folks are stock characters. Dame Agatha and P.G. Wodehouse used their types often; but both authors would have made them less 'boring'. There is the rich industrial tycoon, Sir William McQuorkidale (or something like that) who now lives the life of a country gentleman, and his relatives-in-law, who feed off his wealth because a)they can't run a successful business or don't know how to work or b) were brought up to think work is beneath their class.  The only persons who do work are Ivor Novello (a real-life entertainer; but Sir William's fictional cousin) and his American producer friend. There are two female upstairs characters I pity: Sir William's daughter Isabel (the poor-rich kid who's being blackmailed) and Mabel, the wife of a twit who squandered her money and now despises her middle-class manners. Mabel is well acted, and she shows more spirit at the end of the film.

  The interesting, believable people are the servants. The film shows their attitudes to their jobs, to each other, and to their employers. Very little subservience there. Several major British actors playing those roles. The added 'perks' on the DVD about the authenticity and the commentary by the writer, whose family was upper-class, are worth watching to understand how this film is not a mystery at all but a sort of fictional 'day-in-the-life' of a stately home between the wars.  (Fans of the BBC documentary 'The Victorian Kitchen' will enjoy it because Ruth Mott was the technical advisor for the kitchen staff)

  I thought it was cheeky to cast Stephen Fry as the bumbling inspector. This is the same time period as P.G. Wodehouse's 'Jeeves & Wooster' tales. Fry, dressed in 'thirties garments, looked enough like Jeeves masquerading as a Scotland Yard Inspector to make me think Hugh Laurie should appear as Bertie Wooster. The film producer, the pompous dignified butler, the foolish drone Lord Something or other [if not his leach of a friend] seemed send-ups of Wodehouse's comic characters.

There are some very witty put-downs sprinkled through the film. Jeremy Northam's Ivor Novello is a treat to listen to - but not for long periods, as Maggie Smith's character points out. Some of the more interesting characters' scattered subplots would have been interesting. (Will Elsie end up in Hollywood or in the gutter? Will Mabel divorce Freddie now that she's stood up to him? Will Mary become 'the perfect servant' or will she leave the countess?) The set designs and lighting are worth appreciation if you are a film student. Also the contrast between the lanquid movements of the upstairs people with the haste and almost constant scrubbing downstairs.  I appreciated the women's clothes. How 1930's upper class women looked so elegant during the Great Depression is a study in itself.

  People who watch History Television / The History Channel will appreciate this film's period details; but there's no plot, no mystery, nothing to hold your attention. I was bored when I watched in in the theatre; but it is more interesting now that I have heard the commentaries.