Let me start by saying I am a Christian and I am a graduate from the Berklee College of Music. Having worked in musical theatre and worked on movie soundtracks I know a little bit about acting, film making and story writing. I wanted so for this to be a continuation of the original. I wanted this to be taken to the next level because the first one was quite nice. I wanted this to be the sleeper hit of the year. 
Sometimes the problem with making a book into the movie is that you don't have the "film" time to develop certain characters or plot lines, so they try to re-arrange events to make them "flow" better. Unfortunately, this did not work with LBII. If I had not read the book, it would have been more difficult to follow than it was. There were many holes in the movie version. Yes, you can follow what is given, but if the story line had not been as disjointed and some of the crucial parts of the book included; this could have been a very good movie.
Some of the writing could have been better thought out. Unlike the first movie, I felt they tried too hard and thusly wound up creating amateurish scenes instead of great movie meat and potatoes. By trying to compress some of the story lines of the book, you created scenes that were forced, lacking in credibility and sometimes quite difficult to watch. 
Now since I'm a music grad, let me tell you the inclusion of sweet strings was over used to try to "mellow" or "pretty-up" a scene. They would have been better served to just create more "generic" classical music. The angel at the Wailing Wall scene was painful to watch. It was confusing; the use of Amazing Grace (musically) did not work and the way the scene played out seemed to need a magician's wand than the grace of God. I know what they were ATTEMPTING to do. That attempt just fell short, in my opinion. I don't know whose idea it was to alter the order of scenes that was so well developed and arranged in the book, but that should have been thought again as well. Don Sebesky (a famous Jazz composer and arranger) once stated, "There should be a reason for every note". I didn't get the feeling there was a reason for every bit of dialogue in this movie.
This movie will work if you don't compare it to the first one or definitely not to the books. There is no mandatory sex scene 20-30 minutes into the movie. There is no foul language. Unfortunately when I see a movie, the previously mentioned is not a stellar endorsement for that movie. It's like when asked how the blind date was and the response comes back "he/she has a nice personality." 
I wanted this to be a really good movie. I wanted this to be something I could recommend. I wanted this movie to work well. God bless all the people involved. Their hearts were in the right place. It's just that their ideas weren't. I do hope they keep trying. I'm sure Oliver Stone's first attempts were not great either. 
Do yourself a favor. If you want to be entertained, read the book or get the audio book with Frank Muller narrating. His presentation is "FABULOUS" and his Nicolae is both engaging yet evil. Mr. Muller never misses with any of the accents and they all sound different and enjoyable with which to listen.