My title suggests that this film is hedonistic but nothing could be further from the case. This film is, to be sure, sensuous in every sense of the word but it explores family relations in a meaningful and believable way. I've seen this film more times than I can remember over the past decade, mostly with mainland Chinese students. Each time I view it I find something more to appreciate, which to me marks a great film experience. In my estimation, this is Lee Ang's finest film, far surpassing the better known "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" in storyline and characterization. Yes, the traditional Chinese cooking is a feast for the eyes and indeed you may work up a healthy appetite if you view this film at the wrong time of the day. But there is far more than culinary delight to this film than many of the superficial reviews here would suggest. This is essentially a story about a father who is trying to find meaning in his life separate from his intimate family relationships (i.e. three rather willful daughters). In some sense, he is a kind of King Lear, but without the tragic baggage. A widower and retired gourmet chef, the father tries to keep his daughters near him by cooking a veritable emperor's banquet for them each Sunday. Although the daughters all live at home, they lead busy urban lives in Taipei and so the weekly ritual tends to crimp their style. Still, there is much "comfort food" here in both the dishes served and the words spoken. But don't get the impression that this film is maudlin in tone; it does not, in fact, take itself too seriously and there are ample moments of earthy Chinese humor (which translates rather well across cultures) and surprise leading to farce. The pace of the film is as rapid as the final meal preparations, in keeping with Chinese custom of serving everything quickly and as fresh as possible (no egg rolls here). For this we have fabulous film editing to thank and Lee Ang's gift for balancing action with dialogue, mood for mood. And far from being an artsy fartsy foreign film laden with self-conscious style, this film resonates with real characters fleshed out in real-life situations. A Taiwanese production, it avoids the stock characterization and outright stereotyping tediously depicted in most Western productions of East Asian culture. And I dare say at the risk of searching for the exotic, that this very male reviewer found most of the women in this film to be both lovely and graceful. You can enjoy this film immensely for its traditional elements and at the same time learn a lot about contemporary Chinese habits of thought, especially since its ending is anything but predictable. Indeed, it is the ending that many of my mainland Chinese students had to wrestle with, and perhaps you will too. All in all, one of the finest films of the past decade, foreign or not.