I have seen this entire series many times in Japanese, and I love EVERY SINGLE EPISODE!!! I even ordered the Japanese version, although they sent me the Chinese/Cantonese version with TERRIBLY HORRIFYING subtitles! How disappointing. Of course, you can still get the genereal idea of what's going on in each episode in that DVD set, but you miss out on many references and subtle jokes due to many, MANY typos and spelling and grammar errors.

Anywho, Ouran High School Host Club is a delicious cake made up of layers of romance, suspense, drama, and frosted over with randomness and humor! The show is refreshing to watch and hilarious overall! The characters are lovable in their own respects, especially Tamaki, who is WAY too overdramatic and obsessive over things (like Haruhi). The show features bishounen (beautiful or "pretty" boys), but it is not just for girls. This show is for anyone, male or female, gay, straight, or bi, who loves a unique anime that doesn't take itself seriously and can handle a reverse-harem theme. I mean, yes, there IS cross-dressing involved, like Haruhi's father, "Ranka" Fujioka, and the episode where Kasanoda-kun (Bossa Nova-kun) gets dressed up like a catboy maid (genius, pure genius! XD), but any dude can watch this show without feeling weird or less straight.

Now if you've read the product description and/or the other customer reviews, then I don't need to explain the plot behind this story. The show has the unique quality of replay value, meaning (in case you are stupid) that you can re-watch or "replay" the series many times without getting bored of it. After having watched the first 2 English episodes in advance, I can say that, while not as good as the original Japanese version (which by the way is completely flawless in voice acting, script, and overall execution of the idea), it still does an accurate job of conveying the essence of the original. I can also say that watching an episode in Japanese and watching the same episode in English will give you 2 completely different experiences, which is not at all a bad thing. In fact, it makes this box set even more fun!

Think about it! If you have a show with replay value and it's available in 2 languages, you can bounce back and forth between languages and double your pleasure, double your fun (just like Doublemint Gum)! I've already pre-ordered my copy and should get it in the next couple of days! And to celebrate, I shall watch the entire box set marathon style with my Ouran cosplay uniform, YAY!!!

In conclusion, if you can handle a little cross-dressing and sexual innuendo, including "forbidden brotherly love" (which is only a gimmick and never actually takes place in graphic nature on screen), then this is a must-have for your anime collection! Buy this, and you're sure to die laughing!!!!!!!!

Oh yeah, I hope my review wasn't too short, and I hope it actually helped SOMEONE out there.