I've been a fan of Star Wars since my mother first showed me reruns and took me to see "Wrath of Kahn" in the theaters.  When "The Next Generation" came out, I don't think I missed an episode.  In 1991, the original crew was given a dignified, graceful exit in the form of "The Undiscovered Country".  So it was my hope, in waiting for "Nemesis", that the Next Gen crew would be treated with the same diginity and respect.  Sadly, the movie is a disaster of near "Final Frontier" proportions, becuase, although as not as bad as "Insurrection" or "Generations", it is the final appearance of these beloved characters, and that is the true crime.
The story is that the Remans, a never before heard of offshoot of the Romulans have taken control of the Romulan Empire.  Naturally, the Enterprise is the only ship in the sector, as always, and is sent to great the new head of the Empire.  Well, he's Picard's Clone, and tries to gain his trust, while his real reason is that he a)needs Picards blood to live, and b)wants to kill everyone on Earth for some reason involving revenge.(logically, as Earth never did anything to him, he should want to destroy all the Romulans, and he shows so much contempt for them that you wonder why he doesn't.  Of course, the movie wouldn't work, then).  
Star Trek, despite the worst intentions of Rick Berman and Brannon Braga, has always been about the people.  None of the incarnations of the show would be popular if the characters weren't interesting.  Which is why "Voyager" and "Enterprise" are weak entires in the series.  In all of the first 6 films, and especially in the two best Trek films, "Kahn"  and "Undiscovered Country", the characters were called upon to react to changes in their lives, to loss and to the consequences of their actions(or inactions).  In this film, well, Data sings.  Which he did in the last film.  Riker plays the Trombone and sucks in his gut.  Troi "feels uneasy".  Worf, so compelling on "TNG" and "DS9" is again reduced to comic relief.  And the whole crew is still together.  At least in the first 6 films the characters had moved on to other things.  Kirk, as Admiral in 1-4, Spock, dead for a bit, Sulu a Captain, Checkov on the Reliant as First Officer.  In the "Next Gen" films, everything is the same, it's jusy like one very long poorly written TV episode.  At the end of each of the films, after the enemy defeated, the situtation is pretty much the same as in the beginning, more or less.  Nobody learns anything or really moves on(Riker and Troi are leaving the ship, but it's handled very poorly, and the "death" of a character is treated almost as a punch line.)  The Screenwritter, John Logan, who penned "Gladiator", claims to be a fan, but you wonder what he was a fan OF, if this is teh sendoff he gives the characters he "loves".  This is why the film is unforgiveable.
There are many action scenes in this movie, but the only ones that work are the space battle ones, and they are about the only redeaming part of the film.  The first action scene which involves a Starfleet ATV, a "road-warrior" like gang of aliens, none of the laws of physics, and another Data-like android, is shot bleached out, ala the Mexico scenes in "Traffic".  Why?  I have no idea.  Maybe to hide the poor special effects, or to distract from the fact that the entire subplot is poorly written and illogical.  For instance, we are told WHY the Data-like Android is there, eventually, but we don't know where he came.  This contradicts so much development in the series that it's sick.  But it moves the plot along.
The biggest Special Effect in this film is the new Reman Warbird, the Scimitar, which apparently has more power than anything ever in the universe.  It's a BIG ship.  So when Picard and Data are running through the halls, you have to wonder why only about 10 people seem to inhabit it.  Plus, the hallways look so much like cheap sets that the Original Series looked futuristic by comparison.
The director is Stuart Baird, who made "Executive Decision", the Steven Segal/Kurt Russell terrorist movie that has the dual honor of being considered more offensive to the Arab community than "True Lies" and for thankfully killing off Segal in the first act.  Well, I guess the good cancels out the bad, in this case.  Anyway, he has no style, nothing special to bring to the screen.  Compare this to the Original Crew sendoff, in which they brought back the writer/director of "Wrath of Kahn", a man who knew how to make  Trek Film.  Baird is clumsy with exposition scenes, and his space battles, while fantastic looking, actually drag.  
The only reason this disc gets 2 stars is that it has many deleted scenes that actually would have helped the film.  The commentary is self-serving, almosy a defense of the film, and offers nothing of substance on the process.  In the end, I actually have to call this the WORST Trek of all time because Shatner can at least claim that "Final Frontier" was edited out from under him and his budget was slashed.  Baird and Berman apparently worked together with a large budget on this mess, so they get no such consideration.  Avoid the film at all costs, and weep for the loss of a great franchise.