The musical performances on this disc are excellent; let me just get that out of the way.  Also, they have nicely put it all on one disc instead of falsely stretching it out onto two, as many DVD operas do these days, so you can buy it simply as a recording of the opera and play it on your computer to  yourself as a CD.

Now to the staging: Alden has staged the whole thing as a bizarre, trippy dream.  There are so many non sequiturs and absurd pieces of stage business that it would be impossible to go over them all; several of the other reviewers on this page already have. Some of the images are very funny and evocative: I will never forget Almirena as a cheerleader with pompoms, or later when she is stuck as a prisoner in some sort of picture of a beach while she is held captive by Armida and Argante (it looks like something out of the Brothers Quay)...but overall, most of the images are just outlandish and confusing, and random in exactly the way dreams are.  At one point Eustazio seems to be trying to kill Geoffredo under the control of some puppeteer--limbs jerking, reluctantly stabbing at him, etc... Geoffredo doesn't seem to notice...then it just stops for no reason and they leave the stage together.  There is a giant bobble head doll that shows up at key moments (it is similar to a small version that Almirena was holding in an early scene), and at the end Rinaldo seems to swordfight with it (only it has its pants up again, thank goodness).  Anyway, you get the idea.  You watch it for a little while before you realize it is supposed to be a dream, though. Alden could have showed us Rinaldo falling asleep in an airport at the beginning or something...or Almirena falling asleep while eating spicy food and reading a romance novel, and then it would have been clear from the beginning.  But that would just be too easy for the audience, I guess.  We have to sit there trying to make sense of it for a while.  Believe me, don't even try, it is complete nonsense.

And that is basically the problem that I have with the "it was all a dream" device in staging plays or operas or writing screenplays: it is just a cop out.  I really don't have a problem with making this opera a farce--the libretto is especially retarded, even for a Handel opera (and I LOVE Handel's operas, don't get me wrong), and so the farcical and/or comic approach could work.  But in this production the dream device just seems like a lazy way for Alden to avoid dealing with the libretto and its tangle of relationships...plus, the imagery is really at odds with the music at times, as other reviewers here have noted.

You can get it for the singing, and because its the only DVD of Rinaldo, but don't expect an intelligent staging.