There are things about this movie that I really liked, and things that I really hated.  First let me say that when I first heard the movie was being directed by Stephen Sommers, I was really excited.  The 1999 Universal movie "The Mummy" was absolutely fantastic.  It stayed true to the original classic, but added in awesome special effects and a lot of humor.  I think that was a truly epic monster movie, it's sequel not falling far behind in terms of greatness.

Anyhow, now we come to "Van Helsing".  When the official website for the movie opened, I couldn't have been more pleased.  The shadowy pictures of each of the 3 monsters had me jumping out of my seat, they looked so awesome.  Being a huge fan of the classic Universal Monster movies, I was happy someone had finally decided to do a decent remake of the three monsters featured in this film.  Most of the 90's versions of Frankenstein, Dracula, and The Wolf Man (with the exception of "Bram Stoker's Dracula", which was excellent) were really lacking.  Then finally when the trailer was released for Van Helsing, it was looking better than ever.

And after many months of waiting, I finally sat down in a theater to watch Van Helsing.  I was greatly disappointed.  First of all, this movie did not stay true to the original movies at all.  It actually rewrote the birth of Frankenstein.  Sure, many of the same elements existed (the castle, an angry mob, the windmill, etc.), but the story was just wrong.  Dracula was never meant to be present at the Frankensteins' Monster's birth, and Dr. Frankenstein was meant to be a mad scientist, not some symbol of good.

Next we come to Van Helsing himself.  Who exactly is the person portrayed in the movie?  He's obviously not Abraham Van Helsing, as portrayed in Bram Stoker's "Dracula", but some descendant.  And why does he have to be working for the church, which only comes into play for about five minutes of the movie anyhow?  And quite frankly I don't see why Mr. Hyde had to be stuck in the movie either.  The Mr. Hyde in this movie was a complete rip off of the one in "The League of Extraordinary Gentleman".  I personally, would have chosen a different monster, maybe the Gill Man or something more common in the classic Universal realm.  Anyway, I didn't particularly like Hugh Jackman as the hero either.  Don't get me wrong, Hugh Jackman is an awesome actor, but he's already Wolverine in "X-Men", and seeing as this movie is obviously some type of superhero story, I think they should have went with someone less popular.  And the whole "right hand of God" theme was really lame.

Next we come to The Wolf Man (my favorite monster).  First, I'm glad someone was finally able to make a decent werewolf movie, as the past few years have not seen many, but I do have some complaints.  I think the "first" werewolf to appear in the movie, the one to bite Velkan, was the best one featured.  The gray fur, and the overly large fangs looked magnificent.  And the way the creature moved was great.  But the Velkan werewolf wasn't as good, in my opinion.  It looks too much like a puppy, not nearly as feirce as the first werewolf.  Yeah, I know, it's one of the good guys who has turned into the wolf, but still it could be a little meaner.  I didn't care for the transformation sequence either.  The idea of a man tearing off his skin and revealing a wolf underneath is awesome, but its was carried out too PG-13 friendly in the movie.  You need to show the guy actually tearing his flesh away, not blend the shedding skin with the metamorphosis.  And I don't really understand the fact that when the werewolf turns back into Velkan, it also tears its skin off.  The whole idea kind of contradicts itself.  And finally, and I don't want to give away too much, but the "final" werewolf in the film was mean looking too, but it's fur was too dark, and it made the creature hard to make out.  Not to mention the monster's face resembles that of a black lab.

Finally we come to Dracula.  I don't think the character was carried out too well, honestly.  Dracula is meant to be evil and at the same time partially compassionate for his love, not funny.  It's good to have humor, but did Imhotep make jokes in "The Mummy"?  And I also didn't care too much for the fact that Van Helsing encountered Dracula before, and the whole "offspring" idea was a cheaply thought out excuse to bring the monsters together.

One last comment, what was the point of that Transylvanian guy with the top hat?  He had really lame jokes, and basically no purpose to the plot whatsoever.  I was glad to see him taken out by Velkan.  On the other hand, I think Kevin J. O'Connor added a great deal to the movie as "Igor", just as he did to "The Mummy".  He would have been satisfactory as the film's comic relief, but for some reason they had to make Dracula "funny", and add that goofy Carl guy for additional humor (a waste.)

So finally, the special effects were excellent, and overall the movie is very entertaining, but I just think too much money was wasted on the project.  If they wanted to remake these monsters so bad, they should have done each one seperately, and if they wanted to make a movie with these three monsters so bad, they should have done it a little more seriously, and stayed true to the original stories.  Van Helsing is basically just a seriously overproduced mix between "Young Frankenstein" and "Howling VI".