The last Clooney produced film I saw was The American.  Soooooooooooo badddddddddddd.  Sooooooo Badddddd.  The worrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrst film I have ever seen---you should see it for that reason alone.  Honestly, I can't believe this is all Hollywood has to offer.  And, had I known Clooney WROTE this film, at least I would have been prepared.  If you must see it, go to Redbox and put down a dollar and change.  This is not a collector's item, unless you have some obsession with GC or RG.

I am always certain a movie is going to be toast when the sound is off---be prepared to miss a lot of lines from the get-go.  I had to turn the volume up as I went along until I had it on high.  Here's a rule of thumb, George, if you can't make it audible, then why do it.

SPOILER ON OUT

OK, Newsflash Geo, girls who ask a 30 yr old to F them are somewhat prepared for all life has to offer.  So, was she REALLY engaged in unprotected sex with the Governor?  And will someone tell me in what world girl-interns have access to the hotel room of a candidate at midnight---unless of course the candidate wants them to.  Such BS.  And let's just say he was that stupid (because he did make a point to tell OHIO that he wasn't a Christian), would he really, really want an STD to take home to his wife?  So let's just say somehow he routinely gets knocks on his door at midnight from hot young female interns while the secret service guy is off getting coffee (or sworn to secrecy) and he is also comfortable bedding said intern(s) in the middle of a campaign and neither of them has take any precautions---guess what, there is an assortment of pharmaceuticals one can take thereafter without going in for a "Procedure."  This is 2012. I assume since RG was leaving her for the day and considering the cost, she was going in for a "procedure."

And how long exactly had she been with this campaign?

OK, if you can get past that bogus inciting incident that happens wayyyy too late in the story, does she really have his personal cell number?  And is he really calling her on a campaign staffer's phone at 2:30 am.  I assume every single one of those calls is monitored by someone on the campaign.

Moving along--->I don't care how much this supposedly paranoid guy hates RG, do you really want to announce in the middle of a neck and neck race that you are shaking things up because one of your guys is a traitor.  You do that after the race.

And let's assume this campaign manager is so crazy that he would turn on RG like that in a neck and neck race (they happen to be losing), would said manager really just walk away when George turns on him.  Oh my gosh.  This was where the story was---this crazed guy would have gone after Geo with all paws and you know he knows about the chicks showing up at midnight.  He knows.  It's his job to prevent such things---he knows.

Moving along--->Now, why does a guy like RG (who pulls $1100 out of his own account to quietly solve this little indiscretion) not tell the crazoid campaign manager immediately about the meeting if he is going to do it at all.  Why wait?

And this is where it really jumps the tracks--->so RG is now jobless, and he says politics is his whole life, and then he decides he can extort the governonr.  Really?  Has he not heard of David Letterman.  I can't figure out why the governor wasn't wearing a wire and he then could have showed that he had RG on tape---then they could have played a game of real chicken to see who was going to blink first.  That would have been interesting.  But RG is a smart guy and would he have really not patted down George before this discussion and had it on his terms, where he knew he was safe from being taped?  The plot was just ridiculous.

And tell me, George---are we supposed to like someone in this film?  Are we supposed to cheer for someone?  Just asking.  Usually, that helps along all the sucky things that go wrong.

The ending is more of the same---we just see RG waiting to give an interview.  And we're supposed to wonder what he is going to say.  Really?  REALLY????  He risked going to prison to get his job back, and is he now unable to live with that decision and determined to get even?  Why?  And for what?  To go back to having no job, let's even say no HOPE of a job?  Who wants a loose cannon in the political arena?

Honestly, the only thing interesting was George talking about getting us out of our oil debt with the middle east.

Don't even get me started on the directing---at the beginning we watch this guy on this platform rise to the same level as the stage--->tell me why?  Was it so we could see it was a presidential debate?  It just made no sense to spend any time on that.  And we see this intern with all this coffee late in the show and another one asking for a phone---why and why?  Why waste time on that?

George---pal---believe it or not, there are skilled craftspeople out there.