Needless to say, this set is missing some of my favorite unsolved murders from the show.  But I found that a lot of those that were included were ones I'd never seen, and there are only a couple segments that I personally don't think should have been included.  The last segment of the set, for example- the one entitled "Campus Calamity"- hardly seems to even rate as a local news item.  It just seems like a segment for a dreadfully slow week at Unsolved Mysteries.  However, the reason I can't strongly recommend this set to anyone but fans is the puzzling poor quality of the picure in many segments.  The most egregious example of this is for one of the most interesting segments, "Friends to the End".  The picture grain is simply atrocious in it's entirety.  I can't understand why the transfer for a dvd of such a recent, highly regarded show wouldn't be utterly pristine.  They can't say they didn't have good source material, right?  Most segments have some incidence of grain and blurring.  Sometimes the picture is about as clear as you would expect.  I've read that the other sets have a similar problem.  But, if that's not wholly important to you...  Some comments on the various segments:

Trailer Terror- Just one of the stories in the set that deals with an apparent police conspiracy and/or police incompetence.  Quite shocking.

Journalists Murder-  This very interesting spot on the apparently staged suicide of journalist Danny Casolaro really gives the set some needed integrity.  This is a well known story to conspiracy buffs.

Backyard Bones- One of the weirder cases; yet in the commentary it's revealed that this one is a little less of a mystery than previously supposed, though far from cut-and-dried.

World Leaders- This one probably doesn't belong here, but most will find it fairly interesting.

Burned Evidence- Another case in which the police are suspect, though not suspected alone.  Appalling.

Plane Crash Sabotage- This one seems a little misplaced; yet there is no denying it's a mystery.

Bordello Murders- One in which in which it can reasonably be assumed that a police officer perpetrated the crime.  Not that he'll ever be brought to justice...

Dakota's Double Death- One of the weirdest murder mysteries I've seen.  You could write a speculative horror story about it.

Zodiac/Unabomber- Did you know there were parallels between these two murderous figures?  Probably the neatest segment.

Two other things that disappoint me: Some of the best segments don't get a commentary (only 1 of 4 do).  Also: Why are there any *solved* mysteries on the disc at all?  That seems like kind of a waste.  Surely, the UFO & ghost sets don't have any "solved" mysteries.  If they put all the solved mysteries on one set, do you think anyone would buy it?

Frankly, I'd just recommend watching the reruns if you want to see these segments, as well as all of the ones that are notably absent.  Send a message to First Look (the company responsible for the sets) that we want a better product than this.  What's the point of buying a dvd that doesn't look as good as the show does on cable itself?