The following review was written by my 11 year old daughter to fulfill an assignment in our homeschool.

  An interaction between two cultures can easily become something deadly. This is what happened in Island of the Blue Dolphins, a survival fiction story by Scott O'Dell. Karana, a twelve year old indian girl native to San Nicholas Island far off the coast of California, witnessed these events unfold in the early 1800's.

  An Aleut ship sailed to the island, with men on board greedy for otter pelts. Captain Orlov, the crew's Russian leader received permission to hunt the otter from Karana's father, Chief Chowig.  When the Russian ship was ready to depart with it's cargo of one hundred and five bales of otter, an argument occurred over the price. This quarrel resulted in the killing of all the men in Karana's tribe, including her father. Karana and the remains of her tribe were left with the responsibilities of caring for the elderly people of the group, hunting for food, and the pain caused by the death of all the men. In time, another ship came, this one belonging to the "white men." They were going to bring Karana and her tribe to another place. When Karana's younger brother Ramo was mistakenly left on the island, Karana jumped ship and stayed with her brother. Both kept their hopes high that the ship would return. Sadly, Ramo was killed by wild dogs.

  Karana, left alone to deal with the agony of her brother's death and the loneliness it causes, has to learn to deal with her troubles and find ways to live on her own. In this story filled with heartache, terror, and work.
The author writes great descriptions about how Karana keeps up her great courage and strength through both the good and the bad.  Karana deals with death, nature, and surviving on her own.  His writing shows that through courage and determination, everything can work out for the best.

  There are amazing plot twists in this book. Karana's tame dog Rontu turned on his own kind to save her. Their relationship is beautifully described and wonderfully captured. Karana has to deal with the loneliness she encounters throughout the story, and her relationship with Rontu helps her to survive.  Your emotions will most likely run high when reading this book.

  Vivid descriptions, beautiful vocabulary, and tense moments make this a great read. I would definitely recommend this book to older children and young adults because of the great  plot. Island of the Blue Dolphins is also a short book, great for readers who like quick reading. Island of the Blue Dolphins is one of the best books I've ever read and I'm sure many other people would agree.