Sadly-or as a consolation that legitimizes watching this-the most affecting moments of the pseudo feel-good "Hanging Up" are the most pathetic. The would-be dramedy has the elements of both, but the  timing of the elements are not mutually exclusive. 
  Take, for  instance, Walter Matthau's drunken romp through his daughter's child's  Halloween party: what should have typified why Meg Ryan is haunted and  irked by her father's curmudgeonly demeanor and makes it hard for her to  come to terms with his imminent death and ultimately forgive him is reduced  to just a mere flashback that does little in the way of enhance our  understanding of Meg Ryan's attitude towards him presently and how she  comes to terms; one does not know whether to laugh or cry during the scene  where Meg Ryan relates details of a fake earthquake measuring  "3.11" or so on the Richter scale, glibly playing into her  delusional father's fantasy that his wife-albeit by the looks of things she  did it smartly-really did not walk out on him. 
  Here again, is  another unresolved issue: why she left Matthau, and cannot make peace with  him. Matthau must be rolling over in his grave after having his last film  portray his character nothing more than the  grouch that people just-in the  backs of their minds-dismiss as old and love unconditionally.
  The most  cathartic moment of "Hangin' Up" finds Meg Ryan  "disconnecting all her phones" on which she and her sisters spend  half the movie-a very 90s technique suggested and employed by New Age gurus  and directress Nora Ephron so as to get in touch with one's self; it marks  the point where Ryan starts to artificially patch things up with her  sisters,one of whom is played by actress-turned-ego-maniacal director Diane  Keaton who is a Martha Stewart type domestic-diva. 
  Metaphorically,  this "disconnect" represents the dispelling of the  "hang-ups" that have haunted the characters for years: one being  that Keaton's character stole a recipe from Ryan's character. Lisa Kudrow's  savvy delivery is wasted in the water here amidst the blandness of Ryan and  Keaton that her interactions with her canine are more comedic. Ms. Tracee  Ross suffers the similar fate to Kudrow relegated to a poodle-coiffed  secretary; how Ms. Diana Ross could sanction her appearance is quite  curious.