After trying out a large number of workout DVDs, I've decided that I'm most likely to do a 20 to 40-minute routine.  A workout within that time period hits the exercise sweet spot for me, especially when I've had a long day (or I know tomorrow will be).  That was the situation when I did "QuickFix - Total Cardio Kick," and I wasn't disappointed.

This DVD includes four ten-minute workouts.  One focuses on the upper body, one on the lower, and one centers on the body's "core" (another name for the trunk/torso).  The fourth is a bonus workout, and it's an all-around routine that includes two sets of pushups.  Each has the QuickFix timer in the bottom right corner, a feature that I find useful.  It's about the size of those channel logos on cable or satellite TV stations, and looks kind of like this: :QF10.  The numeral counts down by minutes.  It goes to :QF9 when nine minutes are left, and so on until the end of the segment.  A little minute hand circumnavigates the Q as well.  I liked that, since it's a concrete reminder that time isn't standing still.

The instructor, Janis Saffell, is a good caller, and delivers her (mostly) clear commands in a motivating manner.  She has two assistants; the one on her left does easier modifications.  As for the workouts, all of them are well done and will get your heart pumping.  They can be modified based on your fitness level, like when I added 3-pound neoprene-coated weights to the upper body workout for an added challenge.  I also appreciated the monotony-breaking variety of exercises.  For example, three types of kicks were utilized in various combinations: front, side, and round (I also modified a knee circle into a crescent kick).

As with other DVDs featuring time-segmented workouts, the transitions are brutally efficient, which may intimidate beginners.  Also, stretching time and warmup/cooldown are over quickly.  If you value these workout aspects, you'll have to do them on your own or add another DVD.  Even so, "QuickFix - Total Cardio Kick" is a fine addition to your home exercise routine.  Other kickboxing and martial arts-related workout DVDs I've enjoyed are the "10-minute Solution - Kickbox Bootcamp," and "Budokon for Beginners" by Cameron Shayne.