There is a layer of rich splendor created in the cinematography of this film in its deftly applied attention to detail. A film critic's essay included with the Criterion Blu Ray edition notes that Merchant/Ivory productions had decades of experience in making the sets look authentic and lived in, and while having appreciated it to some degree in previous viewings on VHS, DVD, and even streaming  - these true details brought forth in such clarity in the Blu Ray version explode in a violence that took my breath away. Set in London's early 20th century, the film dresses its people and furnishings in subdued hues of browns, greys, beige, olive green  and powdered blues  - the shocking contrasts of colorific beauty are highlighted and segment the film when it switches to Howards End in its springtime glory, or Leonard Bast's nature walk out of London, or his wife Jackie's tacky fuchsia wardrobe. There is a level of intent from the filmmaker in these transitions and contrasts that becomes evident and meaningful to the story craft and is only fully appreciable in the Blu Ray.

I've seen this film dozens of times and never before had I noticed how many beautiful and stunning scarfs and shawls Margret dons throughout the film. Let alone the glorious Wedgewood, China, and amazing works of art that inhabit all the sets.

However, when I first started the Blu Ray I was horrifed and thought it was an exceptionally poor transfer. It was as grainy as a beach, with white dots littering the screen. I was able to resolve this by changing my TV's settings to appreciate the picture. My TV comes with a range of preset brights/huges/and balance controls - which of course you can use to set your own as well. I usually have mine set to "vibrant." However, this was too much for the delicate film work here and had the film screaming bits of grain and white flashes at me - a switch to my TV's "cinematic" preset made the Blu Ray brilliantly rendered. If you find the Blu Ray lacking, play with your picture settings. If you're like me, you have your colors and brightness up rather high and this film requires darker settings - I guess its like the equalizer settings on your stereo, you wouldn't use the same settings for rock-n-roll and classical. I'm not a techie so I don't know how correct my assessment is, but I do now that once I made the adjustments, the film was still in absolute high definition, and far more stunning and visually engaging than the DVD.

Faithful to the book there is nary a detail left out, a few minor details are juxtaposed here or there for a tighter film fit - In my judgment this is the most faithful and positively perfect rendering of a classic book to film ever attempted. The script is expertly crafted, and it is cast under the divine intervention of kismet. Thompson and Hopkins have undeniable chemistry. The film is quite simply a masterpiece and it is a rare example of film's capacity  to harmonize with other art forms. The written word is brought to life, the soundtrack is exquisite, and the locations are teeming with exuberance and life.

Yet this film is most certainly not for everyone, as evidenced by the  many "It's boring" reviews here. There is no instant fix, explosions or romantic endings.  Like any work of literary fiction, plot is not the catalyst here - the human experience is exposed through patient character development letting you experience E.M. Forster's most poignant commandment:  "Only connect."