In Office Space, everybody hates their jobs because they aren't even worried about getting fired and Peter, Michael and Samir all think that everyday they work is the worst day of their lives. Furthermore, all three of them will risk going to jail to sabotage the company with a computer virus.

 I remember watching this movie when it first came out. That was 6 years ago and I didn't understand a lot of the crude and inappropriate jokes. It was a lot more funny watching it the second time and there was parts of the movie that I didn't remember.

 Everybody hates their jobs in the movie Office Space and they aren't even worried about getting fired. They take their anger out on printers and copy machines. When Peter sleeps at night all he thinks about is how much his life sucks and that he wishes he could lay around and do nothing all day. Some employees even day dream of burning down the building. Working at Inotech, Makes the lives of the employees a living hell. Anybody who works there would rather get laid off then to stand another day working for Mr. Lumberg.

 For Peter, Michael and Samir everyday is the worst day of their lives. Peter even goes to a psychologist to discuss his life and how much he hates it. The psychologist helps him, however, with hypnosis. He isn't the only one that thinks his life sucks. His girlfriend Joanna works at a local diner and hates her job so she freaks out and quits. They need to find a way to get even.

 Furthermore, all three of them will risk going to jail to sabotage the company with a computer virus. The virus rounds off small amounts of money and transacts money from the company into a neutral bank account. They figured little by little money would be transferred so no one would notice the small amounts missing. The three believed that even if they got caught they would not even have to serve time, however, when $305,000 was transferred to their account they thought different.

 This movie was great and it had a good plot. When I saw the cover at Blockbuster I figured the movie would be funny but with no real story, I was wrong. A good story with good characters made it enjoyable to watch this movie.