I understand that this film was produced at a budget of $30m, then the most paid for a Swedish film (I don't know if it still is). That this film has had significant money spent on it is clear, the sceneray, sets and, as other reviewers have noted, the battle scenes are of a high standard.

A film that is not produced in the hollywood bubble, particularly onethe that is based outside of a US/UK context, will find it hard to produce a work that appeals a significant percentage of movieviewers - I think Arn does that.

However, despite its strengths which do make this a film worth viewing I did find the film's continuity and plot unconvincing. There are two major plot lines that run through the film (and here the spoliers start so you may want to stop reading here). First there is a romance conquering over all obstacles put in its way angle which, to be truthful was well done if you like that sort of thing. Second, there is a an interesting theme of violence and diplomacy that I felt could have been developed substantially but which, ultimately, seems to be tangential. In Arn we have a man who was foreceably compelled by the Church to take up arms in the Holy Land where he proves to be an effective soldier. However, unlike some foolish Knight Templar who fight uncritically and feel assured of victory because they fight under the auspices of the Holy Cross Arn is more realist and develops a mutual respect for Saladin, the leader of the opposing army. This mutual respect mean Arn is healed and allowed to leave whilst the rest of the Knights Templar are killed. After a touching "can't we all just learn to get along" moment Saladin allows Arn to leave.

However, on his return to his homeland we find that Arn effectively and without explanation renounces this new found respect for diplomacy by defending his homeland and, without attempt at conciliation slaughter the invaders which, the end credits tell us (this is remember a fictional story) forged the basis for national self-identification for decades to come. This surprising twist is entirely unexplained, although I wonder if the unedited original explained this theme. My point is not to be all moralistic but simply Arn, the central character doesn't really ring true.

So, in summary, a good all round feel good movie but as a film that provokes thought as well as emotional response it leaves a little to be desired but still worthy of a viewing.