As most reviews have described the plot/premise of this film I won't do it here or frankly waste my time. Daniel Waters assembled what appears to be a promising and very talented cast. He under-utilized them all. The movie's opening scene starts with Mindy Cohen ("Fact of Life") who was so nice to see after such a long absence. Of course, my smile turned to "depression" as I thought, "Oh my... Mindy looks old!"  LOL That sums up my reaction to this film. I wanted to smile, immerse myself in the film, but in a flash that feeling would disappear.

This disjointed movie trys to be too many things on too many levels. Serious, funny, fantasy, dark, and ironic- it falls short on all topics. All the actors simply appear to meandering their parts. The movie is simply too muted in ambiance to be outstanding in any one aspect. The director should have either decided to rev up Winona's plot and morphed it into a suspense movie or taken the 180 degree turn and created a full-fledged comedy. I believe it would have worked better that way. Even the scenes I thought "This is funny and I should be laughing," I could barely crack a smile. Mr. Waters' direction just didn't give me the energy to.

Winona Ryder- always a pleasure to watch- disappointed in this film with her mostly one-dimensional character that took such an unexpected radical twist. The "1+2=3" aspect of that just didn't work for me or give me a complete understanding as to "How did this happen?". When I find myself clock-watching a film within the first half hour, I know it's in trouble. Mr. Waters didn't give me any vested interest in the characters or what their ultimate fates would be. The movie just didn't find an "identity" for me that I could attach to and enjoy it from there. Every once in awhile it would have a brief spark of brillence, but like a straw fire, it was gone in a instant. Even Simon Baker's monologue at the end that tried to "sum up" the movie and give us a "philsophical life lesson" falls flat. I'm actually happy there are reviewers that came to appreciate the film for the actors' sake. Sad to say I cannot be one of them.