The Heiress is the poignant 1949 film which won Olivia de Havilland a well deserved Oscar for Best Actress.  Based on the book "Washington Square" the story is set in the 1840s, focusing on Catherine (de Havilland), a timid naive woman who happens to have an inheritance of $10,000 a year from her mother, and $20,000 a year after her father's death.  Ralph Richardson also gives an outstanding performance here as the father who holds her up to the standard of her late mother.  His view of her not measuring up is one thing that keeps her down.

  Montgomery Clift plays Morris, the man who courts her.  She falls in love with him, while he's more in love with her money, though she doesn't suspect his alterior motive until it's too late.  Throughout we get sharp witted dialogue, sometimes leaving us subtle between-the-lines clues.  For instance when Morris echoes Catherine's thought that when alone with her Aunt Lavinia he is more eloquent (this implies Lavinia told him of her similar thoughts).  And when in Paris she tells her father that her Aunt's letter gives a first hand account of Paris (implying her Aunt has been talking to Morris).
  Her father finally tells her how worthless he feels she is, but for her inheritance, so she then puts all her faith in Morris.  They set the time for him to come and take her away to elope, fueling her romantic fantasies of the relationship and she tells him of her falling out with (and apparent disinheritance from) her father, then goes to pack.  The scenes that follow are some of the most moving and disturbing ever set to film.  As she waits for Morris with elated anticipation, her Aunt tells her of her belief in Morris' money motive.  Catherine denies this: "Morris will love me, where others did not." 
  After the set time for his arrival comes and goes it dawns on her what has happened and she breaks down.  In the morning she is completely transformed, older, bitter, and drained as she slowly drags her suitcases back up the long dark stairway.  For the rest of the film she "finds her voice" as her father says, a lower toned, darker, disillusioned, and bitter voice.  And her father and Morris both find that hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
  Another Oscar went to Aaron Copland for the excellent film score.  If you know the song "I Can't Help Falling in Love", you'll notice it's a rip off of this score.  Overall one of the top 5 films of the 1940s.