After seeing the first "Tomb Raider" film, I craving for more excitement. When I saw the second "Tomb Raider" film in theaters, my craving had been fulfilled. What more can you say about a film that has lots of action, lots of exotic locations, and lots of sexiness from Angelina Jolie? Just read below:
"Tomb Raider 2" by far had lots of action--about as much as the first film--that kept me on the edge of my seat. The Terra-cotta warriors sequence was absolutely amazing and I especially enjoyed the sequence in the laboratory and high-jump from the Hong Kong building! These sequences also gave me an appreciation for the hard work the filmmakers and cast put into to bring moviegoers pleasing, yet exciting entertainment. The action recieves a rating of 10/10.
The exotic locations in the film are very eye-appealing, especially the underwater temple sequence, which is by far the most amazing set that I've seen in films (especially when combined with lots of rushing water)! I was also espeicially pleased with the Hong Kong setting because I felt that Hong Kong was perfect for many of the action sequences in the film! However, I wished that they had did a sequence involving a submarine battle between Lara Croft and the bad guys, but for now I was very pleased in what was presented to me. The exotic locations recieve a rating of 10/10.
And finally, I believe that the sexiness from Angelina Jolie turned up a notch in this film for it seemed that Angelina Jolie became the character that most fans of the video game have come to known--and love--about Lara Croft. I was also pleased in how Mrs. Jolie didn't seem to show any boredom with her character, and how she had made perfect chemistry with Bryce and the butler (the use of her witty remarks, especially the line "tea is for guests, the door is for intruders"). The sexiness from Angelina Jolie---hands down--wins my rating of 10/10.
Now I know many critics gave this movie some bad reviews, but I believed that this movie brought more excitement than what was published in the newspapers by the critics. If one really wants to feel the excitement of lots of action, lots of exotic locations, and lots of sexiness from Angelina Jolie, then I suggest checking out this film! I guarantee if you watch it for awhile and appreciate it, it'll be a movie that will surely be an excellent addition to the DVD/VHS collection!