I saw this film in April 2006 at the Wisconsin Film Festival. It won the overall Audience Choice Award for the festival, a well-deserved win.

Poor Olaf. I cannot recall a more harrowing example of sexual frustration, but with a gentleness fostered by the film's humorous, playful flavor. Olaf's self-control was absolutely adorable and irresistible. Tim Guinee intensely reminded me of a younger Harrison Ford, particularly Ford's more vulnerable and innocent roles like Regarding Henry or the light-hearted moments in Witness.

If Guinee was Harrison Ford, then Elizabeth Reaser is a doppelganger for Penelope Cruz. That distinctive, almost saucy underbite distracted me in its resemblance! Although born and raised in Michigan, Reaser spoke almost no English in this film, and she had to deliver a number of frustrated tirades entirely in German. Although I am curious how German audiences would receive her performance, I was impressed. None of the German is translated. We are in the same boat as Olaf and the villagers, trying to understand Inge's intentions and personality through clues of body language, intonation, and expression.

The movie is one of imagination and memory, literally. In almost every scene, Inge's hair and make-up are flawless, and she wore one particularly traveling outfit over and over. At first, I thought this was unrealistic movie magic, but then I thought of the way the story was told. Inge, as an old woman, relates the tale of her courtship to her grandson, Lars, after giving him an old photograph of herself. That photo was taken the day she arrived to become Olaf's wife, and in it, she is beautifully made up and dressed in her best to meet her new husband. Lars, having only this one image of his youthful grandmother, creates the flashback from that starting point. Young people often find it difficult to envision elderly relatives as anything other than old, so Lars did the best he could, placing that particular Inge--well-dressed, pretty, and neatly made up--in all of his flashback imaginings. This trick of storytelling lent the entire film an extra dose of fairy tale magic.

Alan Cumming, as Olaf's vaguely pathetic and very fatherly best friend, was comedic, but he did not spoil the picture with an overdose slapstick or hijinks. However, I did find his pairing with Alex Kingston a little improbable. She seemed too solid and practical to be married to the town clown. Ned Beatty and John Heard, as the archetypal nasty banker and god-fearing minister, respectively, added to the Capra parable feel, but the real centerpiece was the chemistry between Reaser and Guinee and the magic they created for their characters. The anticipation is breath-taking. I just wanted those two to find the right time and place.

A beautiful film.