I picked this up thinking I'd have the episodes to watch over the next few months on evenings when I just needed a break, but I ended up watching the entire thing in four consecutive nights.  The first night I watched the first three episodes and I thought decent story, I'm interested enough to watch another episode and then I just got hooked.

My first impressions were not that great because I thought the acting in the pilot episode was kind of stilted and not realistic, but once I got to know the characters better it seemed more realistic (although still some problems in that area) and not stilted.  There are glaring gaps in the spectrum of characters I would expect to see in Berkeley California (no one is gay?, no one is Asian?) but I guess you can't have all groups represented.

Really brief summary: four kids live in Berkeley near their parents (one kid lives with the parents).  All the kids have children. One family is almost perfect; there one "flaw" is their autistic son, but that's not really a flaw just one more place they can eventually excel. One mother is divorced from a drug addict, rock band father and her two kids are a bit disturbed (but not too much and the daughter is really wise). One daughter is married to a stay at home dad and they have one child also "flawed", she is gifted. And, the last son is the "wild one" who still brings his laundry home to mom but is finally settling down with the five year old son he just found out he has.  All the families have little conflicts within the family (all the women hit on the stay at home dad; the perfect family's wife wants to start working; the divorced mom can't meet a guy unless its the teacher her daughter has a crush on; and the wild son's newly found son is moving to NY.  Those are just some of the plot devices that carry the story forward.

I'll list my problems with the series first. This is the kind of series where you can't look too closely. What do the Dad and Mom do (not speak to each other, wash the kids laundry?)?  If the show has said, I haven't caught it. They seem to sit around waiting for their kids to show up? How do people manage to get to each other's houses several times a day in the horrible east bay traffic?  Could a kid really show up to a new school and the principle just come tell her, sorry we've decided to hold you back you and not even notify the parents? Do all those moms at the school really have nothing to do but hang out and torment and judge the one mom who works? Stuff like that.

Not too important but sometimes when those thoughts pop into my mind I get distracted from enjoying the show. The good stuff is the dilemmas the family faces and their connection with one another in attempting to solve their problems. I found this fascinating. I don't know if it's realistic but every problem was approached as a family. The four adult children have some minor problems getting along but they always go to one another (I don't think they have any friends? Isn't that strange).  There are also some really funny and poignant scenes.  And, the parents aren't perfect (although the one dad is close to perfect).  I think ultimately what makes it work is that it is not realistic but it's fun and engaging and provides some moments of escape from real life with family and parenting.