I have to admit, I wasn't much of a Jim Carrey fan when THE CABLE GUY was released. Sure, I was familiar with Carrey's work on "In Living Color" and I liked DUMB AND DUMBER and the Ace Ventura movies for what they were, but I thought I had seen everything Carrey had to offer as an entertainer and as an actor.
Apparently, so did everyone else. Except, when they saw Carrey's twisted performance in THE CABLE GUY, they were disappointed, while I sat up in my seat and thought "Wow, I really underestimated this guy." This was the first time I ever considered Jim Carrey a serious actor, and a pretty good one at that. But Carrey is still fighting that "goofy comedian" tag even today. Remember his Oscar snubs after a great performance in THE TRUMAN SHOW and especially after his absolutely jaw-dropping reincarnation of Andy Kaufman in MAN ON THE MOON? Carrey does have an enormous amount of acting talent -- even if audiences won't accept it and critics won't admit it.
Why people STILL consider this one a failure, I simply do not know -- a brilliantly edgy performance from Carrey, a solid straight man in Matthew Broderick, a tremendous script with a plot that keeps you involved throughout, and sharp direction from Ben Stiller (Ben's the real reason I saw THE CABLE GUY in the first place...). Just a terrific movie that's actually pretty daring for a major studio release. While most Hollywood movies are willing to ride on action or starpower alone, THE CABLE GUY actually manages to carry a message, too -- a warning against the danger of too much of a good thing (in this case, television).
Satire aside, the best part of THE CABLE GUY remains Carrey's double-edged performance. On one hand, Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey) is a creepy, twisted, vengeful psychopath. On the other hand, Chip is a sad, lonely, vulnerable figure whose life has been shaped almost entirely by the culture of television. He spends most of the movie being the aggressor, but, by the end, it is clear he's really a victim. The fact that Carrey can play a raving psychotic and a sympathetic victim and still manage to make it funny should prove how talented he truly is. There just aren't too many other actors who could have made this role work. Jim does it effortlessly. If you throw away all of your preconceptions about Jim Carrey (good or bad), you're in for a real treat. Definitely worth your time.