Aelita is a spectacular failure. Made to compete with the great productions from Germany and USA, it was the Leviathan of Russian silent movies; hyper-expensive and long in the making.
It became the victim of a critical backlash (too much capitalist wishy-washying) and was quietly withdrawn from circulation soon after its bombastic premiere opening, featuring larger-than-life models of Aelita's characters outside the cinemas and advance hype of the highest order.
Soon even the rumour of it faded into obscurity, yet some remembered. The Soviet State Film archives didn't destroy the negative (apparently, they have preserved everything, however subversive!) Aelita was still mentioned fleetingly during the years (John Grierson tried to aquire a copy) but not until Glasnost was it released to new audiences. And now it's on DVD.
This is a film you will want to see just once. Oh, you can probably return to it and watch individual scenes, but I myself wouldn't ever want to see the entire film again. It's badly directed and the story is complete hokum. The special effects are perfunctory. Just take a peek at that lens or telescope the Martians use to watch life on earth. Whoever conceived that one? When Aelita looks into the telescope, it's from a distance of 50cm from the ocular, which means she can't see anything at all. The space-ship looks like a pot bellied boiler from the Titanic.
I've seen much better effects in other films from the 20ies.
The planet Mars, however, is imaginatively rendered and the costumes and make-up are a sight to behold! Check out those hair-dos!
The scenes from earth are interesting. Not for the melodramatic story, but the social aspect of it. Post-revolutionary Soviet had great housing and food supply problems and this features strongly in Aelita. If only they had got rid of that terrible counter-revolutionary villain and his obnoxious wife, Aelita would have been so much better. 
Buy it only if you want to support the release of old silents on DVD, or is an avid collector of all things rare and silent.