Hmm, I don't usually write movie reviews, but I have to respond in this case. I'm not going to praise this one as one of the "greats" of all time, but, it wasn't the worst movie of all time either, not at all. Part of the problem is that the box itself compares this movie to Braveheart - which is a bad idea for at least two reasons. Braveheart was a huge budge Mel Gibson movie - so this leaves druids with a tough act to follow. Next, they are only very superficially the same. Though both movies involves swords and arrows, and a "weaker" nation fighting a powerful invader, there the comparison ends. Braveheart, put simply, was a battle between good and evil, oppression and rebel. Druids contains these elements, but also contains much more subtle elements. It asks question (subtely, without spoon feeding them) - such as what is right and wrong in war? How far should you go to win? Is it more important to do what you feel is right, or what you know you must do? (Vercingetorix must choose between sparing or destroying his people's own towns in order hopefully win the war!) Braveheart doesn't get quite so deep - English = Evil, Scottish = Good. I'm not even sure Vercengetorix was 100% justified in his rebellion (maybe 75% justified, but not so obvious as Braveheart's choice to rebel). Had things gone differently, Vercengetorix and Caesar might have even been friends, but his choices led him on another path. Braveheart never even came close to having the choice of whether or not to befriend the English king. But, the movie isn't without its flaws. The acting in some places is uneven (though I won't rage against Christopher Lambert like some people do - I think some people simply hate him). The arch druid, Max Von Syndow was excellent, though in a minor role. I have mixed feelings about a German as Caesar. SOme complain that Caesar showed too little emotion - but I believe this is merely a result of his enormous ego. This whole war was, to him, almost a nuisance, as he was sure his great destiny was assured. His low-key performance to me indicated his almost absolute certainty that this war wasn't going to get in his way and could be swept aside as befitting a man with a destiny. And finally - don't claim historical inaccuracies by complaining about things like Gallic mustaches or the women who bared their breasts. The Gauls DID have big mustaches - this isn't a mistake or an anachronism, and, the scene with the women was in the book, so it's not a mistake either. Where the movie lacks is, in my opinion, in its budget, but, take it for what it is, and don't expect Braveheart and Mel Gibson, and avoid it if you already hate Lambert. Besides, for such a low budget, I feel they did a good job at costuming and settings.