Nice parody but nothing more... Actually I was expecting to see there Leslie Nelson instead of Harrison Ford. I know, Harrison Ford is a good actor, but Leslie is much better candidature for such parodies like Naked Gun or K-19... Because everything in K-19 is just a parody/farce...(mark the most proper word) done in a standard Hollywood style. Se yourself: Russian submariners are dancing in a squatting position; they call the submarine commander as "captain"  and do many other funny things instead of performing their regular duty. Very funny! Actually I was expecting to see more interesting things such as dancing bears dressed in caps with ear-flaps and a big red star that playing on balalaika. I was expecting to see lots of drunken Russian submariners playing cards, drinking vodka and fight each with other just for fun. It's really strange that I didn't see these episodes in K-19 because this is a normal portraiture on Russian people for most of Americans. This movie was primary created for average statistical citizen from one-storied middle of America such as Cleveland or similar (nothing personal!). Course these average statistical guys will never understand all funny sides of the K-19 movie and they will sincerely believe that everything there is a TRUE. They will believe that Russian submariners handle the battle torpedo just like a firewood etc. They will believe that Russian "zampolit" can contradict to his commander and even aim him with a gun :) These guys will never understand that commander of Russian submarine is incontestable authority for everyone on board including the "zampolit "... 
I would not explain here all such nonsense's as shown in the movie. However I would like to say that this movie has nothing common with a real story of K-19 and its heroic crew who save the word against nuclear catastrophe. Some of these heroes have spent their lives to do that they did, and some of them are still alive and they were really hoping to see at least a particle of TRUE in the mentioned movie. They were so happy to meet Harrison Ford when he was in Russia. So this is as twice as more painful to see the suffering on their old and wrinkled faces. In any case, we know - THEY ARE REAL HEROES! 
Thank you for spending a time on reading of this review.