As already described, this is a Horror Thriller with a lot of inspiration borrowed heavily and without inhibitions from "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre", when it comes to the overall setting and atmosphere, "Joy Ride" when it comes to the Psychopathic Killer, and "The Hills have Eyes" because of the Mutant like Son and his parents who act as apparent sympathizers or even accomplices of the Killer.

While this movie won't get any prizes for originallity, it does have its thrilling moments.  The main problem is, nonetheless, the lack of logic among the heroine.  When she has every reason to believe that something terrible just happend to her boyfriend, she finds a trailer where she seeks refuge from the Killer who she believes to be after her.  Here she actually finds a video of herself and her boyfriend while they are making love, which is only a few hours old.  Any normal person would by now try to get out of the trailer as fast as possible, but when a C.B. radio close to her rings she picks it up and starts talking to the other person on the line.  Even after finishing the conversation she stays in that trailer.  This is totally incoherent; I mean who in their right mind would stay at some stranger's trailer, where that video is.  If you put 1 and 1 together you just have to realize immediately that either a perverted peeping Tom made that video, which isen't exactly consolation, or even worse the Killer himself made it.  So why the hell stay in that trailer?  The small amount of alcohol that she drank can't explain this type of irrational behavior.  Another scene just totally defies any normal behavior.  Here the killer is coming toward Nicole,the heroine, with his pick-up truck; she manages to jump out of the way, thereby avoiding being hit by the truck.  In the event she flings her mobile phone away, only to pick it up in the next moment, as she decovers that the batteries have been removed by her sudden move.  So what does she actually do, she looks at the celluar for a second which is now dirty and throws it away.  Hello, anybody here who's thinking for a moment.  I mean, why not find the batteries, they can't be far away, and put them back in the phone??  Even if the phone didn't get a connection, as it did in the beginning of the movie, once the couple arrives at the deadly rest stop, it would be foolish and an absolute risk to leave the mobile phone behind, since a connection could easily be established else where.  This is another one of those scenes that just dosen't make any sense !

Also Nicole dosen't come across as likeable.  When she was with her boyfriend, she's behaving like a spoiled teenager, and often acting rather bitchy and demanding, as if nothing is good enough for her.

If the 2 unlogical scenes don't bother you and, the fact that a large portion of this movie is, to put it mildly, adoped from other aforementioned films, then this is certainly alright watching, if only for the thrills, which come rather frequently.  But if this is not the case, you'll be better off skipping this one.

By the way, the horror elements are absolutely in the background, which makes this movie more of a dark and morbid Thriller, than a Horror flick.