The original Bourne books are about a man who risks all to go undercover to take on the world's greatest assassin (Carlos the Jackal). While there are problems with the agency due to the amnesia, misunderstandings, and some traitors, the overall tone is that the CIA and the USA are the good guys. Another distinction from the movie is that David Webb voluntarily becomes Jason Bourne--not just at first, but also again when needed to protect his friends. Webb must call on his "Bourne" persona to provide him the focus, skills, and determination to do what it takes to succeed.

English director Paul Greengrass regurgitates Bourne to give us the nauseatingly overused character of the hero being a "VICTIM" of some kind of CIA brainwashing done by rogues at the agency. These rogues are clearly supposed to be connected to--and sanctioned by--the "top" (read: Bush administration). In Greengass' version, the CIA has put together a team of assassins to go around killing undesirables--even US citizens. Unsurprisingly, there are scenes of Bourne undergoing some kind of "waterboarding" treatment to force him to continue after he has volunteered for the program and then changed his mind. How *YAWN* predictable.

Why Hollywood feels it is necessary to unceasingly inject this twisted, dark view of the USA and the CIA into movies is beyond me. I know that European audiences swoon when the USA is portrayed as some kind of dark force in the world led by sinister, shadowy groups. And indeed, Hollywood chasing Eurodollars to put Euro butts in Euro theater seats might be the part of the motivation. But the long-run effect is that Greengrass uses his prodigious talent to convey a poisonous view of the USA to the world by constantly presenting audiences with larger-than-life movie images of the same drivel that leftist journalists and editors love to insert into their "objective" news. The unfortunate truth is that sinister agencies and dark, shadowy groups are a ubiquitous part of Europe's history (as well as Asia's and Africa's). They are NOT part of the USA's history--except in the vivid imagination of some detached, ivory-towered professors and radical Leftists. Of course--they are usually the same.

Hollywood likes to pretend--and try to make the rest of us think--that it bravely speaks "truth to power." But the consequences to "brave" Hollywood and leftist directors are none. Just lots of profits and a smug sense of satisfaction. If they really want to dip their toes in real courage (and I mean a little dip), they might try the following characters: A good CIA hero who seeks to protect people from true evils in the world; a selfish, misguided journalist who causes the death of thousands by exposing a top-secret CIA program; a greedy trial-lawyer who fabricates evidence and uses junk science to take on corporations that are actually providing a benefit (like life-saving medicines); an American soldier who is psychologically stable, truly brave, understands the larger goals, is not only in the military because he comes from a broken background, and is no kind of victim whatsoever.

The director who made a movie with these characters would risk no longer being able to get invited to the cool parties, would NEVER win the Oscar for it, and would begin to be subtly blacklisted (such as having articles written inferring that he is being paid by the CIA, is racist, going crazy/senile, or other such things). Just look at the hatchet job done on Mel Gibson for daring to make a religious movie.

The original books had a far more satisfying story than the movies and had plenty of intensity. They have sold amazingly well. If it needed updating, Carlos could have been re-created as a radical terrorist. But that would have offended certain audience groups. The only group it is safe to offend is non-Leftist Americans.

The movie is well-made, action-packed, and thoroughly engaging. Greengrass is truly a talented director. I only wish he were brave enough to take on the Hollywood establishment and speak truth to power--the power here being the ridiculously rich Hollywood elite.