There are going to be two groups of fans that will be actually excited to see the Rock in his new movie Doom: one being the group that enjoyed the storyline of the first person shooter game phenomenon and the other being those that loved the characters and gory carnage from the video game. Both will be disappointed. Now, you would have to be pretty naïve to even assume that this movie would be less than flawed but some fans might actually buy in to it just for the sheer joy of its action spectacle.

I was one such person. I went into Doom with a closed mind but with space that this might just be mêl&eacute;e junk food that would satisfy my craving for now until a bigger and better flick comes out further down the road. It's been far too long since Schwarzenegger or Willis has churned out a good shoot-em-up so I figured the Rock may fill that gap. I must say, Dwayne Johnson does have that charisma that makes him attractive to the action genre but I don't think a million Rocks would ever save this movie from not sucking. Also, it's slightly misleading (but almost in a good way) that they are using the Rock as the anchor selling point for the film, he isn't the real protagonist, Karl Urban (Eomer from Lord of the Rings) is the big hero in this one. But don't get me wrong, the Rock carries the movie still.

If you've ever played any of the Doom games you may recall the original ID Software shareware version was about a lone marine who was trying to make it through a horde of demons and possessed goons from hell accidentally released by a teleportation gate on the planet Mars; or even perhaps the newer Doom III which rehashes much of the same plot with new gimmicks added. The movie tries to repeat the plot trend but either totally forgets about the whole theory on demons coming from Hell or just ignore it entirely. Doom starts out with a little history on the gate between Earth and Mars which they call the Ark. It was created by some superior race of humans which was later found in an archeological excavation on the red planet. Well, something goes horrible wrong and some lab scientist are hacked up by some kind of monster. Just like the classic movie Aliens, the government decides to call in a rag tag group of specialized Marines led by the Rock. They are sent to Mars to contain any contamination and revive any property to this organization. So far, the plot seems very close to the game but then the screen writers decide to go their own direction.

I'm just going to spill the beans on this one because it's not fair for those that loved the game to have to suffer through one and half hours of boring science jibber jabber to get to the real story behind the movie. Basically, they explain that this ancient advanced race had an extra chromosome that made them super strong and smart if they were good at heart but if they were evil in the least bit, they became a zombie then a huge alien type creature. This is where they screw up. There are no cool demons in this movie. There are no big evil blob monsters shooting green stuff out of their mouth. There are no devils with giant chain guns or spider creatures. There are just about a handful of zombies. The handling of the demons is what really buries this movie folks. The origin is such a far cry away from game it loses touch with the real essence that made Doom scary. If I wanted to watch zombies, I would wait for another bad installment of Resident Evil.

There are also way too many unanswered questions, like why one guy turns into a totally unique doglike monster instead of taking on the whole zombie phase or how one of the monsters gets itself through the complicated gateway to earth? But probably worst scene in the movie is the use of the first person camera. It is only used on one part and it was totally unnecessary. It was like the director wanted to get some nerd kudos or something for his utilization of a video game perception. Half the time you couldn't tell what the hell was going on because the camera was moving around so d@mn fast. Not only that but they tried throwing other bits and pieces of the game into the movie like the BFG (Big F'ing Gun) which was pretty impressive seeing shot during the film but never really used for anything you wanted to see like hmmm, killing the bad guys?

Come on guys, this movie can't be that freakin' hard to make, the plot was already outlined for ya and then you have to go and screw with its simple yet prevailing plot and toss in a bunch of sci-fi bull that is incredibly stupid and ill thought out. They spent way too much money on boring effects and eye-catchers and less on cool monsters. I actually think they just reused the alien suit from the Alien movies when I come to think about it. The only redeeming quality of this movie is the Rock's tough as snot attitude and maybe the nifty, slightly given, twist ending. Another videogame movie bites the dust.

Read More reviews at Movie Compound, an Amazon affiliate.