High Tension's first hour has a few plodding moments but also has some disturbing scenes, particularly within the first 15 minutes of the movie.
This could've been a great horror movie that shows an "unsupernatural" sadistic killer, that kills solely for a few minutes of pleasure and knowing that there are some people like that in this world, this could've been a frightening classic.
Also, I really pulled for the heroine of the movie trying to save her friend.  Marie, said heroine, was supposedly free from whatever unthinkable thing this French b@stard would've done to her but she knew her friend Alex would have to endure something probably even more horrific so she stuck by her side and tried to rescue her.  During the movie, I found myself considering the incredible courage it would take to do that - her being a rather slight girl and knowing what a sick, remorseless dude she'd be dealing with.
I agree with Doctor Trance in the highlighted review that this guy was one of the most evil movie villains in screen history- because he reminds us of those deranged child killers and torturer/killers we read about in the papers sometimes who use their victims and then discard them like yesterday's trash.  And this movie is like a reenactment. That early scene in the movie is still hard to get out of my head.
All this could've made for a great tension reliever if Marie would've rescued her friend and enacted vengeance on this (...) or a very disturbing horror movie if the girls lost.

***Spoiler***

Instead we get another damn twist ending that unravels energy and time invested and then makes incomprehensible the preceding events.  Why?  Who knows - many filmmakers these days struggle with how to end their movies that will satisfy the audience and so sell out to the current trend.  It would've been more surprising had there not been a twist and this twist was decidedly stupid and pointless.
It's some Freudian or interpretive bs that damages the rest of the movie and makes the viewer think they missed something and/or insults their intelligence.  What it is is a copout and creates tendencies to rent this again to see what you may have missed.  You didn't miss anything- just filmmakers that blew a great opportunity.