This film is based on a very contemporary theme: social networking.  Jeff was Mark's best platonic friend, and upon Mark's sudden death in a car accident, Jeff goes through his e-m's and discovers that he had a long standing on-line association with Andrea in Italy, and the latter is about to visit Mark in Texas, as part of a planned trip to attend an Italian friend's wedding in New York.

Jeff informs Andrea via e-mail about Mark's demise, and in subsequent e-ms he extends an invitation to Andrea to come down to Texas anyway, and stay with him for the planned 2 day visit.

Jeff's stepsister shows up twice in the movie, with no real contribution to the story line, as does Mark's parents when Jeff delivers some of Mark's belongings to them, and the 3 people eat dinner in total silence.......... How does this contribute to the movie??

This movie never really gets going - even after watching it a second time.  I feel the director was perhaps out of left field with this theme and the uncreative photography is rather annoying.

Per Andrea's request, Jeff takes him to Mark's grave and they have a few discussions (at lunch/dinner) which revolved around the last conversations they each had with Mark, and specifically exchanging the last words they each said to Mark and his last words in return to each of them.

Mark was a country music fan, which neither Jeff or Andrea cared for - yet a brief visit to a country bar by Jeff & Andrea is inserted into the movie.  Why - in honor of Mark??

Andrea also brought with him a video which Mark had made of himself, singing a country song to Andrea.  Viewing this causes Jeff to start sobbing bitterly, and Andrea comforts him.

Only during the latter part of Andrea's last of the 2 nights visiting Jeff, does he go to Jeff's room and starts caressing Jeff's face, which eventually wakes Jeff, and he reciprocates and they kiss a little.

The next morning he takes Andrea to the airport to return to Italy, and Andrea invites Jeff to stay in touch and to even visit him in Italy - which Jeff undertakes to do.  Then we see the 2 men dawdling independently in the airport on the different sides of the passenger check-in with nothing emanating from this either.

I give this movie 2 stars, because of Andrea being a likeable character (Alessandro Calza who plays Andrea, co-wrote the script), and because of the few moments of physical closeness the last night.  Will any viewer miss something if they never see this movie?  I honestly do not think so.

For a list of better similar genre movies, see my review for "Harvest" also here at www.amazon.com