The other reviews here focus almost exclusively on the cinematography and direction (both of which were excellent), rather than on the story itself, which could have used some major work.
Although the concept of an  American "everyman" exploring post-WW II Germany is brilliant,  the execution is poor. The concept of the Werwolf (the German spelling)  organization is introduced, but otherwise it is handled as though it were  just a run-of-the-mill terrorist group. No effort is made to explore the  deeper philosophical or ideological implications of the group, it just  seems to fall into the Holywood stereotype "Bad  Nazi"-mold.
Furthermore, the plot is extremely trite and  predictable. The only real surprise comes in the form of the protagonist's  ultimate fate. But other than that moment, the story runs like a grade-B  thriller. The protagonist is drawn into a tug-of-war between rival parties  that wish to exploit his position with the Zentropa rail company. However,  given that the protagonist is such a sweet guy, can there be any doubt  about which side he will ultimately choose? (Can you imagine Jimmy Stewart  as a terrorist? If not, you won't be able to imagine Leopold as one  either.) And although the film treats the revelation about his wife's true  loyalties as though it were a shocking discovery, anyone who paid attention  to her comments during the model train display scene should have been able  to figure out where her sympathies were. Now if the film had taken the time  to explore her reasons for her allegiances, it could have been much  better.
Finally, the marvelous Udo Kier is wasted in a role that has only  about 10 minutes of screen time and has next to no significance to the  plot. Other than the character ultimately being killed off to show what  mean guys the Werwolves were, I can't even figure out a good reason to have  included him. There are other details which could be critiqued as well  (such as why would the assassins sent to kill Ravenstein wait until they  were in the compartment with him to load their guns? Wouldn't it make a lot  more sense to have loaded the guns before boarding the train?), but it is  not fair to expect a film to make every concession to reality.
If you  want to see a film which handled the psychology of post-WW II Europe much  better, I would suggest "The Third Man". If you want to know the  real story of the Werwolf organization, read Perry Biddiscombe's  "Werwolf!: The History of the National Socialist Guerilla  Movement".