I enjoyed this DVD but there were noticable major flaws that prevented the movie from being much more enjoyable. 
The parts that were good... Rachel Roberts as Simone. She is absolutely gorgeous and from that standpoint helps make the concept that the public are going crazy over her somewhat believable. Some of the computer graphic effects were great, I especially liked one part when Pacino added a hint of Audrey Hepburn and Lauren Bacall to give just the right mannerism and voice to his virtual actress. The whole concept and plot of the movie, except for the details were mind provoking. 
Some of the flaws... unbelievable and technically inaccurate elements that jarr you out of the fantasy and into a state of "yeah right". For example, this incredible virtual actress is delivered to Pacino in a hard drive which he loads onto his PC in the CD tray! Anybody with a PC would know this is not technically possible. Furthermore, the computing power to handle creating this virtual actress would require a whole bank of PCs or a supercomputer, yet he was able to run it off his regular desktop. Anyone with a little bit of technical knowhow will see that is artistic licence to the extreme, or more likely abysmal technical ignorance of the Director. 
If technical inaccuracies don't bother you, then how about the fact that his daughter (and numerous others close to Taranski), don't question more strongly why they are never able to ever get to meet Simone.  Weak excuses are made, but you can't help but question if in real life people would really let things slide like that. 
Taranski (Al Pacino) looks like an old tired, slightly crazed man throughlout the movie. His character doesn't seem to develop. You would expect him to undergo a transformation when his movie with Simone becomes a hit.  But that doesn't happen.  
I think many of the flaws are because the movie was written, directed and produced by one person. I am guessing he probably never got the script critically reviewed and edited by a more objective team of qualified scriptwriters.
Look past the flaws in the details and you will find some scenes that are great.