This is probably one of my least favorite horror films ever. What really makes it bad is that it could've very easily been a modern horror classic if there had been just a few changes because this movie really had some good stuff in it but the good just didn't outweigh the bad.

PLOT:

The plot is simple enough. It revolves around a group of five women who have been friends since middle school. At a sixth grade valentine's dance they were particularly mean to a nerdy kid named Jeremy Melton. One of the friends who used to be fat got caught of guys making out with him and she says that he attacked her to avoid embarassment. The boys that caught them then pour something on him and rip his clothes off down to his underwear and beat him up. Well years later the group of friends start receiving threatening Valentine's cards in the mail and are then routinely picked off one by one.

CAST:

Denise Richards(Paige Prescott): Richards is credited first but she isn't the main star of the movie. She is okay for what her role requires but brings nothing spectacular to her performance. She plays the sexy kinda slutty one of the group.

David Boreanaz(Adam Carr): Boreanaz is easily the best thing about this movie. I have never really watched any of the tv shows he was in but I can see him having a future in movies especially in roles like this. From little I have saw of him on tv I thought his performance would sort of wooden but he was actually charasmatic and brooding all at the same time. He plays Kate's recovering alcoholic boyfriend who isn't above suspicion.

Marley Shelton(Kate Davies): Davies is just good enough in her part for me to mention her. She doesn't really bring anything to her performance but she is cute enough to bring a little sympathy to her performance

Adam Harrington(Jason Marquette): I've got to give this guy an honorable mention. He is only in the movie for a few minutes but is memorable which is less than I can say about the rest of the cast except Boreanaz.

PROS AND CONS

I din't really hate this movie but the reason it just doesn't is because I saw trace of a good horror flick but some things just were not right about it. 1. The acting. I know, I know I shouldn't expect brillant acting from a movie like this but I have seen good acting in horror films before and if this had had better actors it would've been a lot better. 2. One of the characters, I'm not saying who, is only in the movie to throw the viewer off. Those who have seen it know who I'm talking about. 3. One of the girls has on the killer's outfit but is not the killer. I don't know why she has it on but it is a BIG plot hole that really makes this movie go from bad to worse.

4. Something I think they should've done is made more main guy characters that way there would be more suspects because most of the guys in the movie aren't in it long enough and aren't important enough to really be considered a suspect.

There were some good things about this film though. Most notably the killer. The whole nose bleeding thing and that mask were REALLY creepy and the ending and I'm talking about the very last scene is effective and gets under your skin.

FINAL WORD:

Even I gave this film a bad rating I still recommend it but with caution. If you can stand a few plot holes and some pretty bad acting then you might really enjoy this film because it did have a few positives.