I just finished watching "Into The Storm" and could not be more appalled by what I saw.  Firstly, on merely technical matters the film is terribly edited as it  continuously jumps between the events of the Second World War and the days before Churchill's loss in the 1945 election for Prime Minister just after the war ends, while giving very little historical context behind the events that it depicts.  Secondly, it is poorly acted as Churchill is portrayed as a crotchety, old, pig-headed, bullying, war-monger who enjoyed war and did not want it to end, cared little for the men under his charge, did not heed the advice of his military advisors and fellow MPS, and treated his servants and his family particularly his wife, with disdain. (Not to mention that the acting itself by all involved, feels inauthentic, and not believable, as if the actors are playing caricatures, rather then real people.)  Thirdly, the filmmakers even go so far as to imply that Churchill was as bad as Hitler in his conduct of the war by filming  a scene in the House of Commons where a Labour MP makes that assertion, and by showing Churchill reacting indifferently to the bombings of German towns, sanctioning the killing of German civilians, and presents the bombing of Dresden as being on the same scale as all of the horrors that the Nazis perpetrated on the world.( Mind you, I'm aware that the bombing of Dresden was a reprehensible act, but it does not even come close to the horrors wrought on the world by Nazi Germany.)  Fourthly, it implies that Josef Stalin,-one of the most vile men in history- had more good sense when it came to fighting the war then Churchill when they have discussions about the it during the Teheran and Yalta Conferences.  Fifthly, it diminishes his speeches by showing him giving them in a limited context by either simply rehearsing them or cutting off memorable sections for example his line about "man's finest hour."  Finally, and maybe most importantly, there is nothing admirable or agreeable about Churchill as none of his purported warmth, humor, decency,  astounding eloquence or charisma are even touched on.  In short, he is not seen as the great man that with the help of others saved the world from one of the most evil regimes ever loosed upon it that threatened its very existence.
 Shame on the people who made this! I hope that any money they made from it is burned and I cannot believe it received Emmy Awards!
So, therefore I say DO NOT waste your money by purchasing this historically inaccurate, badly put together film that desecrates the legacy of one of the indisputably incredible figures of the Twentieth Century.
If you long to see accurate representations of Churchill and World War II, see: "The Gathering Storm," " Then There Were Giants," "The Winds of War," and "War and Remembrance," they do it justice.
I am at a loss to understand how after releasing such an extraordinary film as "The Gathering Storm" in 2002, HBO-A network which often releases excellent movies and specials- could follow it up with this vile piece of filth.