"Bruno was right - they never come back" were the words that Dean Jones's character, Jim Douglas, said in Herbie Goes To Monte Carlo, when it appeared that his famous Volkswagen Beetle and him were not going to win the race. Many naysayers said the same thing about Disney wanting to revive the Love Bug movie franchise, after a twenty-five year absence. With the exception of a low-budget television movie (that poorly explained the origin of the little car that lived, in 1997), Disney had virtually ignored Herbie all together since 1980. Not only were videos of the four movies released between 1968 and 1980 hard to find, but also zero officially licensed merchandise was available. No children's books, pictures, posters, t-shirts, hats, key chains, or toys of Herbie were mass-produced for public consumption. However, with the onset trend of producing all-things-retro in the 2000s, Disney picked up the pace to win the summer movie hit race this year, just as Jim and Herbie won the Monte Carlo race.

The story of Herbie Fully Loaded is about the turns in life that often change the destinies or futures that people may expect of themselves. This is true of all of the characters in the movie, including Herbie, himself. Just as Maggie Peyton (Lindsay Lohan) is all set to move to New York to begin a journalism career at ESPN, she finds that her home in California is beckoning her to stay. Herbie, the 1963 VW Beetle that used to win many races in the `60s and `70s, has been abandoned by a previous owner, and is now left in a junkyard, waiting for the end of time. The two collide when Maggie's father, Ray Peyton, Sr. (Michael Keaton) takes Maggie to the junkyard to buy her a cheap car as a graduation gift. As car and woman get to know each other, they challenge each other's pre-notions about their fates. After Maggie loses Herbie, she realizes what the car means to her, as does racing, and sets out to win him back. This leads to the big NASCAR championship finale at the climate of the movie, and, ultimately, the life lessons learned.

There is a handful of great material in the DVD, including a generous portion of deleted scenes from the movie. In fact, there are so many deleted scenes added in the DVD, that you can discover a whole subplot that was dropped from the theatrical release. The subplot is about why Ray Peyton, Jr. (Brekin Meyer) is not destined to be the next Great Peyton in the racing world - he would rather be a drummer than a driver, and he methodically goes about sabotaging his racing career. In the theatrical release, the audience is left confused about why Ray, Jr. keeps crashing into walls - at one point, believed to be because he has a depth perception issue - and then catches Maggie's championship flowers at the end, leaving Maggie to question her own brother's eyesight. Ray, Jr. doesn't explain to Maggie or us, and the writing in the big finale scene is weakened by this event.

Other scenes also show an intense rivalry between Trip Murphy (Matt Dillon) and Ray, Jr. In one scene, Ray, Sr. has to step in and separate the two. At the same time, we get a hint that Maggie is taken with Trip, a crush that she developed as a teenager. This would have helped explain some scenes kept in the movie, such as why Maggie would have accepted Trip's invitation to drive his stock car, and leave Herbie, vicariously, in Trip's care (or, in this case, in harm's way). Finally, another scene determines how much emotionally and romantically Maggie means to her ex-boyfriend Kevin (Justin Long), when they go out for dinner.

As standard with many DVDs, a blooper reel is included. Thank God for the DVD format, as I, personally, was getting tired of seeing goofy out-takes during the ending credits. Some funny stuff, but nothing to bust a gut over.

Lohan's music video: "First" is also included in the DVD, but is an uninspiring song. There is little use of this video being in here, other than to please any teenagers that dig Lohan as a cool Hollywood actor or an attractive young woman. The video, itself, has little to do with Herbie Fully Loaded, and the song has nothing to do with the movie or character.

The rest of the features of the DVD are great: the making of the movie, the building of the stunt cars, substantial interviews with the director Angela Robinson, the production team, and the stunt car crew. However, the interviews feature is brought down by the sound bytes that Lohan provides. This can be forgiven, if you are not searching for deep meaning or deep, dark personal secrets to be exposed. This is Disney, and the answers are polished.

While all of the deleted scenes add up to approximately twenty minutes of footage, and would have pushed the movie to 2 hours in length, the feeling is that the studio wanted less focus on all the characters and more focus on Lohan. Maggie Peyton is a strong character, but Lindsay Lohan is not a great actor, and this is the one time that the studio should have allowed the director to keep all the cutting room floor material in the flick. Regardless, though, this is the type of movie, in its theatrical release form, that will please many young children and the parents who watched Herbie before the Douglas character departed all together. Critics panned Disney, not only for cashing in on an old proven character and product, but also for using low-resolution computer-graphics as "updated" special effects. While I agree with them on those two points, the one thing that the critics didn't count on making this movie a hit in the theatres - and possibly as a DVD release - is that kids, no matter what generation they are born in, will be awestruck by a funny-looking, little car that has a mind of its own, is good-natured, and can be as a playful as the children watching.