I just finished watching The Belly of an Architect last night and was blown away by everything about it. After reading some people's reviews here about it being a film that is badly written and has no point to it, allow me to say a few words.

Many of you have heard of the name Chuck Palahniuk, and while I blanch to use him as a reference, you all understand the name. If you ever have read a book of his you understand that it is written in what is known in the literary world as "minimalism." This style of creating also extends into music (like the composer of this particular film, Wim Mertens), and in a wonderful turn, Peter Greenaway the film director is also a minimalist. What this means is that there is as much to what is not being said as to what is being said. Wonderfully, in film, and in Peter Greenaway's case, he gives you an amalgamation of hints. One of his trademarks is to use color to illustrate a theme. One of the chief ideas of this theme is the idea that Augustus was poisoned by his wife by means of figs; when this is brought up a giant bowl of bright green figs is introduced on screen, and as the film continues to play, any time we are being led into a hazardous or uncertain situation with the wife, green lighting or prominently colored green props are used. The color of Augustus' bile upon dying is said to be yellow, and so as the themes of death build, the color yellow begins to saturate the atmosphere.

The writing of minimalism is not to tell a story, but to illustrate ideas in a confined space. What is it that a person wants the audience to think about. It's not something you can take in with one viewing. You have to go back and listen closely to everything that is said, to understand why it is being said, and by whom. It's puzzle box for the brain that is based on the idea of questioning and examining everything that is seen and heard.

The plot of the film is intricate (with themes ranging from Jesus, to roman statues and fountains, to Issac Newton and gravity, to the human belly), but displayed very simply. Kracklite, an American architect has come to Rome with his wife to work on an exhibition of Boull&eacute;e, which he has been planning for 10 years. His wife is Italian by heritage, and begins to disappear into the city and become part of the lifestyle and inhabitants, while Kracklite, an outsider, is constantly shut out and demeaned. Watch for the themes about Christ and the subtle comparisons, which are beautifully executed by being shown, never said.

Soon his wife is pregnant, and this draws on the attentions of a man who is trying to ruin Kracklite's chances at his exhibition, in hopes of taking over it for himself, and using the money to fund his own political agendas.

Kracklite begins to be sick in his stomach, and is told about the history of Augustus, and his poisoning by figs, starting an obsession with his stomach. He longs to be someone who is not trapped in his physical body, but never lets this seep over into wishing he was not his own self, being very proud of the intelligence he has cultivated.

The film culminates in various levels, with brilliant punctuations. Every performance is beautifully nuanced, from the wife's devil-may-care disassociation from the people around her (it seems that becoming pregnant, the only person she connects with is her unborn child, an extension of herself). Kracklite's empirical fall, and the Italians slipping in and providing an ambiance of longing for sexual and artistic climax.

The Belly of an Architect is simply phenomenal. The last lines of Kracklite's astounded me; as everything has been taken away, and he knows every last detail of what his future holds, he is detained and upon release asked to give his name, nationality, address, family ties, and career. "Is that all?" Kracklite asks, amused and amazed. And it is. That is how you sum up a person. And in Kracklite's face we can see that it is enough. What more should one need?

If you like story-telling movies and don't like bouts of contemplative silence or monologues (or will ask questions like "why is he writing to dead people on postcards?" without trying to answer those questions for yourself), this would be one to avoid. However, if you love art, this is one to watch for the production values alone. I highly recommend this movie to people who love high literature (like Burroughs or Woolf) and have an interest in metaphysics. The movie isn't so much about architecture, as much as it is about the caverns that we dwell in. The structures that swallow us down into their guts, from the grandest of cathedrals, to the coffins that hold us in our graves.