"The Missing" is an incredible piece work, an epic western, and an effectively eerie thriller. Directed by Ron Howard and starring Cate Blanchett and Tommy Lee Jones, this film is worth a peek and watchable, despite being bogged down by repetitive flaws and an unnecessary length. Then again, 2003 wasn't the best movie year...
The film involves a healer Maggie (Cate Blanchett) who lives on a farm with her lover Brake and her two children. Her father (Tommy Lee Jones) has been estranged from her since she was a child and he has since become an Indian and married many times. One evening, Maggie's father comes to their ranch in search of a healer, not realizing that she is his own daughter. She completely ignores him and quickly fixes him up. He is arrested that evening after a scuffle with Brake, who is also preparing to take the two daughters to a fair the next day. When the daughters and Brake go off to the festival, Maggie falls asleep on her porch and awakes to find a wolf in her house and a creepy feeling about the air. She is unsure of her family's whereabouts and ventures into the woods to find them. There is a butchered Brake and the younger daughter, Dot, screaming because her older sister is gone, having been kidnapped by a brutal group of Apache Indians. Maggie has her father released from jail and he assists her in finding the daughter. Dot insists on joining them and they venture off into plains, floods, and grounds of witchcraft to track the Indians.
Some may call this a horror film, and in fact, I remember one critic calling it "Stephen King's `Little House on the Prairie.'" It is not a scary film, though. The idea of kidnapping and Indians might be disturbing to some, but it is not at all scary. The trailers misrepresent the film. It is, in fact, a riveting drama with fine performances and a brain. The musical score is captivating and beautiful, certainly deserving of an Oscar nomination. The photography is gritty and evocative, capturing the essence of the pain that Maggie and her family must be going through. The screenplay is weak, though, in several spots. The dialogue is often smart but often unclear. It probably takes several viewings to truly understand this movie.
The performances are really what make this film good. Cate Blanchett is brilliant, as usual, and never fails for a moment. You can't take your eyes off the screen because she is just so great. Tommy Lee Jones also reemerges with a fine performance too, worthy of an Oscar nomination. These two stars are great together, and the young actresses are good as well. Aaron Eckhart is solid, but not great, seeing as he is only in the first 30 minutes of the movie. The acting makes the movie.
Overall, the film is worth a viewing, even though flaws are seen throughout. I really found it enjoyable and thrilling, but it kept ending and ending. Why do movies do this? They never want to end...do they?