I have watched this movie over and over since I was a kid, and for some reason, I have only recently discovered the true magic that is this film. One day I just opened my eyes and realized that this is one of the most touching movies I've ever seen.

Tim Burton is my favorite director and Edward Scissorhands is what I consider to be his masterpiece. It is a modern fable for a modern world, a world that always needs a monster to hunt. But Edward is no monster...he is a lonely, kind-hearted misfit who wants to touch but can't. It isn't his fault that he destroys everything he touches; that's just the way he was made. I think that there are people in the world who can understand this concept very well. That's who this movie will touch.

There are little details in this movie that I just adore. The way Burton showed all the husbands coming home and going to work at exactly the same time, the bizarro clothing and hairdos worn by the bored and horny housewives, the drastic juxtapositon of Edward's dark and shadowy castle to the pastel cookie-cutout houses of the town below...and of course, the inconquerable and gorgeous score by Danny Elfman.

Let me just say this...it is simply perfect that Burton and Elfman collaborate on almost every single film that Burton does. The only movie by Tim Burton that did not feature a Danny Elfman score was Ed Wood. I didn't know that when I watched it for the first time, but I knew there was something amiss, something terribly wrong. Now I know what it is. These two were born to collaborate with each other. Elfman has done scores for other films (Dolores Claiborne, Red Dragon) and they do not stand out like they do in Burton's films. The same goes for Johnny Depp. He embodies Burton's vison on the screen. And luckily, in a streak of perfection, this film has all three of these people involved, along with a marvelous story and beautiful art direction.

Anyway, this is a marvelous movie. It is touching, tragic, beautiful, and funny. And how can you resist another eccentric Johnny Depp performance, complete with Robert Smith hair?

I LOVE IT!