For those unaware (just in case), Field Marshall Erwin Rommel was one of the most successful General Officers in the German Army during World War II, and a favorite of Hitler. He was a very successful junior officer during World War I while fighting in France and was again instrumental in France's fall during the Second World War.  Though he was a German celebrity due to his North Africa accomplishments, he fell from Hitler's favor as the Field Marshall's North Afrika Korp suffered reverses. Eventually Rommel's obedience to Hitler's command, unknown to Hitler, became questionable.

The film focuses exclusively on Rommel's gradual dissent. The dialog has a few bits of wit thrown in and examines the conundrum of the General officer in regards to duty versus moral responsibility. Should he strictly follow orders that violate his better judgement as a Commander and also a Citizen. In particular the film displays conversations between Rommel and his wife, fellow officers, and close friend, the Doctor. The film begins with a Commando raid action sequence that is laughable in terms of tactical validity and really sets a bad tone for the film. Commandos dart from room to room spraying rounds from their automatic weapons at German Soldiers who run indiscriminately towards the firefight. Other times, a Commando fires a burst, turns his back to the enemy, and runs away with no regard to his pursuers, until shot in the back. Fortunately, the film does not repeat similar action scenes, but occasionally throws in a highlight of actual War footage to tie the chronological story together. However, these scenes are fairly tedious since there is no powerful soundtrack or video content involved. I was happy when the film returned to dialog, which represents the lion's share of the movie. Most scenes, which would appear natural on a Broadway stage, show Rommel and the other characters expressing their displeasure with Hitler's meddling in the arena of strategic and tactical battlefield command.

In no way is the film suspenseful or dramatic. Dialog is generally "canned." With Victorianesque accent,  Rommel speaks to his wife, "Darling, I love you."  His wife replies, "Yes Darling, but not now." "Darling, I must speak to Hitler" and on an on in this uncomely, non-Germanic tone. Historically, the movie is shallow. From a biographical standpoint, the movie is extremely brief. Action is ridiculous and virtually nonexistent. In a few brief moments, the viewer is invited to ponder Rommel's position, such as the final conversation with the Doctor. These moments, accompanied by views of Rommel's black, leather trench coat, tend to salvage the movie.

I believe there is a distinctly, small number of War fans that will enjoy this movie. Those that have a nostalgia for the old black and white picture, paralleled by good and bad characters, and sequenced with a tightly woven, transparent story will enjoy "The Desert Fox." I would recommend reading one or two of the prominent books on Rommel. This movie is in no way essential to understanding or enjoying the knowledge of one the modern era's greatest Commanders.