These people cannot teach, the dances are boring, and in general, the dances on this DVD just aren't a lot of fun. And they should be, because besides a workout, that's what dance DVDs are for. They should be fun, just challenging enough to keep them exciting, but not so challenging that you're spending more time standing there confused than dancing. But this one just doesn't have it.

Let's start with Kym's section: she seems to confuse talking slowly with teaching well, which is kind of ridiculous. She talks very slowly and calmly, then she does some complicated step without explaining it all--in one instance, she just states the name of a move again and again and does the steps really fast, like all of the audience knows exactly what steps that move entails. Another instance she takes a move too fast when it would've been so much simpler to just slow it down/break it down to explain it, then speed it up.*That's* how you teach people to dance. Also she keeps talking about "the core" over and over again...it's like, we get it. You're trying to point out that this is good for your stomach muscles. You're obviously trying really hard to justify this DVD, but it's not working. It's just annoying. And the other two women doing the dance with her look like they think they think they're too good for the DVD or something; the one has the snottiest face the whole time and they're just unpleasant to watch. I guess they couldn't find back up dancers who were fun and seemed to be enjoying themselves. Is that really too much to ask?

Then the next dance, with Dmitry, is just boring. It's not active enough or fun enough to get into; I couldn't even finish it out. I didn't feel like I was working out at all. He teaches a bit better, but he frustrated me by constantly using the phrase "take it from the top" without clarifying what "the top" was...because it was hardly ever the beginning of the dance, but rather some recent arbitrary point. I wanted to say to him, "Look, you can't say 'take it from the top' every few minutes and start at a different point. It just doesn't work that way.'" Instead, I thought to myself, "Who cares? This is boring anyway," and went on to the last dance on the DVD.

I found the last dance on the DVD boring and the moves kind of silly. And it was weird; she would refer to moves done in the earlier dances on the DVD but then do them differently. It was confusing. And the worst part was I didn't even feel the least bit tired or sweaty after finishing up. I almost always get sweaty and tired doing dance DVDs but this one just left me feeling like I could've gotten more of a workout from a walk.

And one more complaint, this not just about this DVD as about too many dance DVDs out there: people buy these to practice in their homes. Now maybe I'm in a tiny minority, but I just don't have the room in my living room to be flying all over the dance floor like they do. You'd think people who choreograph these videos would take that into account but they never seem to. It makes it a lot harder for me to get into a dance when I have to stop halfway through the steps because I ran out of room or stumbled into the couch. Just saying.

Anyway, if you're trying to get fit through dance, I would definitely not recommend this or any of The Dancing With the Stars series (I have one other that's as bad as this one). I do have a hip-hop DVD that I really like called 10 Minute Solution Hip Hop Dance Mix so I would recommend that to anyone who's looking for a good dance DVD.