I started this movie only because it reminded me of a book, "Acceleration", that was about a boy who discovers the existence of a serial killer on the subway and has to wrestle with his own mind about what to do.  Sounds familiar right?  Well I figured "The Midnight Meat Train" couldn't be that bad since I liked the book's story.  In that department, for me at least, the movie was a hit and miss.

I'll start with the pros and that was the first half (NOT including the bloody beginning intro scene).  The main character, Leon, is a photographer and has prospects to sell his photos to a high to-do art lady.  She poo-poos on his latest work and says that Leon was just too late in trying to capture "the heart of the city" on film.  So he accepts her challenge and decides to work the city AT NIGHT BY HIMSELF.  Long story short he captures a mugging/rape moment before stepping in and thus gets wrapped up in the underground subway murders by tracking a butcher throughout the city.

What I liked about this first part was, ironically, the camera shots and scene setups.  The pace of the first half is actually really slow with Leon walking carefull through each scene like a photographer looking at the world.  To amplify this idea all the shots are stunning, as if the movie is 'capturing the heart of the city' through Leon's actions.  My favorite shot has got to be the subway's escalators that seem to pop up like some sci-fi alien before the audience can figure out what they are.  The music is so subtle that I could just solely focus on the scenery that was filled with eye candy such as shadows and long shots of buildings.  The best eye candy had to be when Leon gets back from the subway train and is just standing in the middle of the meat plant.  While the camera's focused on him a worker is in the background slowly counting hanging meat hooks that sound in time with the quiet sounds of the music.  Pure horror beauty (if such a thing exists).

Now unfortunately onto the cons, which is the story and second half of the movie.  By the second half the director apparently figured out the viewers needed a little more substance than just pretty shots.  Instead of a proper escalation of the psychology battle, we get extremely intense blood sequences.  Now even I was a little squeamish during some of these scenes.  I don't know too much about anatomy, but a human can't possible get bloody as quickly as this movie depicted.  Blood by the buckets was literally thrown across the train floor.  I have a hard time believing that the killer and his cohorts were able to clean all of it for every morning.

Speaking of cohorts, I had a big problem with the final plot.  I won't be a spoiler, but what seems as an intense psychological showdown between two people turns into this conspiracy thing...just didn't work with the great pacing of the first half.

All in all I guess I didn't mind the movie that much.  I think the amount of gore was unnecessary and even cheapened what the director had going for him in the beginning.  This movie isn't for everyone, but I at least found something interesting about it.