The first time I rented this movie, I fell asleep half way through. The second time, I fell asleep again. Undeterred, I went on to watch the first season of the Stand Alone Complex TV series and then to read the original GITS manga in its English-language collected form. Having been hooked by the ideas and the characters, I came back to the movie and instead of finding it slow and somewhat impenetrable, it struck me as far too constrained by time limitations to do the story justice. So I guess it all depends on your viewpoint and how much you already know about the world in which GITS is set and the characters who populate it.

Now I am a lot more familiar with the GITS world, I would strongly recommend that anyone struggling with the original movie does stick with it, and then goes on to watch the TV series as well. The latter may not have the same production values but does have the time to expand on many ideas and develop the characters much better than the film could possibly do.

This is a world in which people can truly live "inside their heads" (or indeed, other people's heads) and in which the external body has largely become insignificant. This is a very attractive concept for anyone who already tends to think this way and regard their brain as their most significant body part, if not the only one. It's a world in which physical pain and sickness is limited to those who have not chosen to become full cyborgs, sexuality is potentially irrelevant as anyone with a cyber-brain can switch to an outwardly opposite gendered body, and we can presume that lifespans are extended and far more predictable than they are today. But there are flaws in this futuristic Shangri-La, not the least of which is that people are still people and however perfect their bodies may be, they still struggle with concepts of identity, still strive for power, still feel emotional pain and are still prey to all those human weaknesses that are independent of the "shell".

The movie and the television series both carefully overlook the sexuality of the main character, although there are indications that there may be something more than a business relationship developing between the Major and Batou in the first season of SAC. In the manga, though, which is intended for a more adult audience, the Major does have a boyfriend and also indulges her sexual inclinations elsewhere. It's definitely worth bearing this in mind when you judge the characters in the movie, which does not have the time to develop them nor the adult certificate it would need to do so. Despite being almost entirely robotic, these are still "real" people and their acceptance of mechanical forms and the compromises they have to make in return for the benefits they gain are a significant aspect of the story.

I would say that if there is a flaw in this movie it is that too much has to be compressed into too short a time. Things develop too fast and are too soon over, and explanations have to be passed by in order to get to the end of the story in time. It's not unusual for Japanese storytelling to be thin on explanations but in this case you really do wish you could spend more time with the characters before it's all over. If you find yourself hooked by the concepts of life with a cyber-brain but left wanting to explore more when the movie is over, do follow up with the original manga and the TV series and you won't regret it.