I know that when I go to see a summer blockbuster movie, I cannot expect deep explorations of philosophical themes... it is just fun, and it eventually just comes down to how much do you like certain stereotypes and hate others. There is no difference whatsoever between this movie and others like The Rock, Armageddon, Batman, Spiderman, ID4 etc,etc,etc. They are all just made to entertain as many people as possible. So I don't really care if they made up a dinosaur for this movie (Spinosaur was actually a dinosaur... the one they made up a little bit for the movie was the Pteranodon, which was not like they showed it in the movie)... I just care enough to get into the movie. I liked its quick pace, I loved the character of Alan Grant, and I enjoyed seeing Tea Leoni hanging from a tree while two raptors try to reach her, as much as I enjoyed William H. Macy's clumsyness. I was so thankful that Ian Malcolm and his annoying daughter were not back almost as much as I was about the T-Rex staying in the island and eventually dying. The one big gap is not if the telephone could be heard from the belly of the dinosaur or if the military answer was too quick... the gap in this movie is simply that it is too short... It lacks one more act, a more entertaining conclusion and a couple of other deaths. What I enjoyed particularly was the crash scene until the T-Rex/Spinosaur fight, the image of the raptors running through the planes (they could have played more with these kind of images and frames) and, above all, the birdcage scene. It was fantastic, very well cut and that's the action I like to see... people running through strange enviroments and moving all around it (they start way up, a bridge, an aereal capture, parasailing, falling to the river, runnning between cliffs, etc). Well, these are the stereotypes I like to see in a blockbuster summer movie (not the world being collapsed by a rock that comes from outer space, nor Will Smith saying I make this look good or Bill Pullman: today we celebrate our independence day, puaghhh!): people being chased by huge digital or mechanical teeth, while falling, burning, exploding, etc. The stars up in the beginning od this review are not the same kind of other of my reviews. I liked this movie, I enjoyed it a lot... but in the end of the day, this is not a movie I'll be thinking much about in other terms than its own plot twists and roars.
Just enjoy it... if you like this kind of entertainment.