Seemingly for ever Stones fans have waited for more-more-more on the making of Exile, especially given the hundreds and hundreds of hours of tape run during the period at Nellcote, almost none of which has been made public.  Now that we have the released added disc to Exile, and this DVD, the fans have, well, not really much more than they had before.  It's not bad, mind, just not as much as you'd have thought or hoped for.

The movie consists of some good period footage of Nellcote, walking around southern France (and elsewhere, finally ending in LA to finish the album off), most in b&w, a mix of still photos and movies.  Many of the stills will have been familiar to fans already.  Cut in with that are contemporary interviews with various personages relevant and irrelevant (what is Sheryl Crow doing here?).  It was good to see the Stones not simply ignore Bill Wyman, as they have been doing now for 20 years, and Mick Taylor is well represented as well.  Even Anita Pallenberg gets to throw her oar in, which is cool.

Then there's the music.  Naturally, the musical backdrop is the Exile album.  But you get a good idea of how the music was made, the pace the band kept up or didn't keep up, challenges to record good sound in the famously dingy and fetid Nellcote basement, etc.  Hangers-on come into the picture, and many of the Stones had family lives (& Mick married Bianca in the middle of recording the album) and children about... it's all interesting.  And well worth watching a second time.

The album offers a number of bonus features, mostly extended interviews with people already heard from (and some not in the main body of the film, like Ronnie Wood).  I think some of this interview footage may have been recorded earlier, for their interview-book "According to the Rolling Stones".

But at the end, again - maybe it's simply not realistic, and maybe so much of what was recorded and shot at the time was simply unusable - one feels this is all welcome and good, but somehow doesn't fully satisfy or scratch the itch of the Exile and Stones fan.