As the end credits rolled, all I could think about was how far the Gundam apple had fallen from the proverbial tree. To say a Gundam series is derivative is an exercise in redundancy. Every Gundam series has carried an echo of the original, even shows that take place in alternate timelines. There are homages to be seen in every iteration of the series that harken back to the original, and arguably best series.

I was very hopeful for the Gundam 00 series. It seemed like a step in the right direction after I felt so cheated by Seed and Seed Destiny, who's predilection for the "super" robot genre was the ultimate departure from Tomino's original vision. As average as I felt the 00 series to be, the movie is just downright awful. The threat is ridiculous. The ESL which serves as the main "antagonist" (if you could call it that) is laughable at best, and offensive at worst. This series took a great risk by introducing an alien species into an active Gundam timeline, something that's NEVER been done before, and could've really breathed life into the series, borrowing cues from Robotech or Macross would've been really interesting, but instead the best they could come up with was living metal? Are you serious?  It isn't even until the last fight (a total rip off of OZ/Treize Faction confronting White Fang, by the way) where this living metal does the obvious thing that would've at least made the fight scenes memorable and imitate mechs. The reason for the ELS being drawn to Earth is also not a strong point, as there's no reason for the resolution to have happened so late in the film: if what they really wanted was what happened in the end, I see no reason for it not to have happened in the first 10 minutes. I'm not offended that for once it wasn't people fighting people, I was offended because the creators botched such a golden opportunity.

This movie, honestly, isn't worth spending two hours watching, while I will absolutely praise the animation, it's just not a good investment of time. If I were you and looking for a good exploration of the Gundam saga, the only movie really worth looking into is Char's Counterattack, an excellent conclusion to what I consider the One Year War Trilogy (part 1 being the original series or the movie compilations, and part 2 being Zeta Gundam).

I love Gundam and I've been watching every iteration (even versions not released in the States) steadily over the past 14 years, and as much as I wish I could say it is, this just isn't a good representation of what Gundam can really be.