This item is ideal if you haven't bought the other editions by now or it is indeed a lovely gift to a nephew or niece who is still to discover Fraggle Rock.

I do think Hit should have issued a stand alone edition as well as this box set since not everyone can afford to re-buy what they already own nor should they have too in order to access the last series. As you can see from all these reviews it was possibly not the best marketing venture for Hit to take.

I do believe however that a stand alone edition will be on sale eventually ... I mean, they would be foolish not to do this. I do believe that this box-set is worth every penny and if you did buy this item for your family then it will be worth the cost and no doubt it will be something of a collectors item one day ... however these things are to be enjoyed, life is too short!

So, yes I agree with everyone here but I like to believe that Hit wanted to create something wonderful for the fans and I imagine this is something of a Swans song, for as much as I would love Fraggle Rock to return it may not hit all the right notes again. It will be interesting to see what they can do with the Fraggle world since season four wrapped up many ideas which had been running through out the series ... the Gorgs were at peace with the Fraggles ... the Doozers and the Fraggles understood each other more fully and Doc came to see the wonder of another world and grew, spiritually I would say, as a result of this encounter.

Fraggle Rock has not been released in England in the same fashion, in series box sets, since someone lost all the master tapes and only 12 episodes remain. For me I will always love the idea of Fraggle Rock existing under a light house, just off the coast of Scotland; as this reinforced the idea Fraggle Rock offered, that it was a beacon for a better world and like a light house, guided it's audience to better shores. Falton Mackay was the Captain of Fraggle Rock Light House and Sprocket (puppeteered by David Barclay and Louise Gold over here) still retained his proud, stubborn and playful manner. I also loved the juxtaposition between the real world and the Fraggle World; the light house scenes were airy, with the sounds of seagulls out side and the waves against rocks and this contrasted the subterranean world of Fraggle Rock beautifully. I would still like to think that the British version will one day appear but till then, this is a wonderful reminder and we have at least 12 episodes. So, yes, I have bought this item....