As other reviews have pointed out, not only is there nothing here that hasn't appeared in hundreds of similar takes on making movies/TV, there is nothing fresh nor involving.

If you think about what is happening--rather than simply accept the characters' pronouncements--the writer Mike Klein (Duchovny) comes off much worse than intended, and the executives much better.  A movie is a real mess when what appears on the screen contradicts its intended message.

-- Examples/details --

Contrary to the pronouncements that the show is high quality, the 2.5 scenes we see indicate it is bad.  One scene is wacky, one is overly sentimental, and the half is mundane exposition.  Furthermore, it is characterized as a (derivative) mix of "Northern Exposure", "Ed" and "Seinfeld".  This made it impossible for me to identify with writer Klein.

The movie's script presents the executives as interfering with the "creative vision" by asking the legitimate question of why a suicide, rather than an ordinary death, needs to a key part of the show and of the motivation for the show's lead.  Klein is repeatedly unable to give even the slightest explanation.  Klein comes off as arbitrary, stubborn, and indulging himself (Klein's brother was a suicide), whereas the executives come off as worrying about the show itself.

The script intends to present the selection of the actors as interference by the executives, but what you see is them picking ones who gave the far better auditions.  Klein wants a friend for the male lead, but the scene used in the audition (wacky material) is inappropriate for the friend's (flat) style, and even then he appears amateurish.  I was left wondering if the friend was anything more than a crony.  And with what follows, it is implausible that Zack, the actor chosen, could have been a legitimate finalist. Instead, Klein appears to have been trying to manipulate the executives into choosing his friend, but wound up sabotaging his own show.

The audition for the female lead produced the one memorable line "I think that Jessie has fake breasts, and I believe that over the life of the series the audience can feel that." It comes across as just a crass way for the executive (Weaver) to say "We're going with talent, rather than looks."  If Jessie had given the better audition, this line could have had very different meaning.  So what is wrong with the executives picking the actress who, although not statuesque, was still a beauty and was able to project a winsome personality?

On focus groups, the script undercuts itself by its wildly implausible participants: They are miles away from being members of the demographics that the real-life networks rabidly pursue. Consequently, the movie has no credibility at the end when it presents the wildly transformed TV show.

The exec played by Ioan Gruffudd is a role so small in both screen time and impact on the story, I had to wonder why it was there at all.  If I had come cold to the movie, I would have suspected that his role had been intended to be the lead (the outsider/new arrival is a standard dramatic device) with writer Klein as one of the "villains", but that when Duchovny signed on as Klein, the script was hastily rewritten to make him the lead.  A movie is a real mess when one incorrectly suspects such butchery.

Note that I am NOT saying that real-life executives haven't butchered good shows. Rather, in this movie, the screenwriter Kasdan, through the character Klein, falsely equates whatever the "artist" _wants_ to do with being _good_ art.