I for one am a movie GURU, I own about 5,000, yes 5,000 DVDs, ranging from F class very low budget films that I bought for simple fun of how hilariously bad they can be(although some will actually surprise you once in awhile), to the big A rank hollywood epics and it's funny how sometimes a hollywood A rank movie can pale compared to some C class films.

Still I didn't mind House of the Dead, I'll admit it didn't follow the games at all really, but as a zombieish type film, it had enough going for it, and that's all someone can really ask, besides you want to knock a movie for being a bad zombie movie? Seriously, go watch "Chopper Chicks in Zombietown" or one of those other really poor grade ones.

Alone in the Dark I thought was uniquely done for a movie that seemed like it was trying to fuse two or even three genres together, Christian Slater coulda done a little better, but still, overall I thought it was an interesting vision and take on something that hasn't been widely explored.

BloodRayne I haven't seen all the way through sad to say despite owning it I always get interrupted, but I really liked the first half. Bloodrayne 2 I haven't had a chance to even start to watch but I am sure it is probably just as good as the first one.

Postal from what I've seen is going to be an amazing film, Zack Ward is one of my favourite actors, I loved him in Titus and Resident Evil: Apocalypse. Vernon Troyer is a welcome addition to see him not in a Mike Myers movie.

I'm glad to see a Far Cry movie is coming out, an Alone In The Dark 2, and Bloodrayne 3. I hope they turn out as well as the other movies.

Heck as a starving actor I should probably look into auditioning for Uwe Boll films as there is a lot of room for extras to get one-liners and perhaps break into the Hollywood scene. Though I doubt Uwe'll ever read these reviews, I think it's excellent that someone is making movie adaptations of games, not direct transfers like RE:A, and Silent Hill was a travesty in my opinion, nothing like the games at all and guess what that director who has even less under his belt than Uwe is doing this year? An Onimusha movie, god help us all. Seriously though, the only two survival horror series left that need to get some form of movie that would make good ones, are Dino Crisis, and well... I won't mention the other, it's my most cherished game series, and if it's going to get adapted into a movie I want to be in on ground zero for it, even if I have to hope to win the lottery, and use all the money I win to go to Hollywood, hire a studio like Rogue and pump all money I can into it and hope that it pays off, much in the way the comedian who pumped all his money into D-War. Anyway I'm off-topic now.

My main point is that people have their own preference and taste, many people love sappy, romance, etc movies, while most people who love action and sci-fi hate those sappy romance movies. Frankly it's better to be open-minded, and all you close-minded people should eat a big one, because at least the directors and them are TRYING, what the heck are YOU doing with your life, hmm?