Well, I can say this movie really tried my patience. I'm all on board for an enigmatic picture, a strange film, a slow burner or something completely intellectual or esoteric. But in a film as slow and ill-defined as this, every moment counts. If this screenplay had but a scant 20 more lines of dialogue to perhaps flesh out any sense of plot movement, story arc or character motive - it would have been a huge blessing. What can you do with a glacially paced movie which essentially has only two characters: A nearly catatonic girl whose origin, powers and purpose are never explained - and a drug addled Doctor (who must utter only a page of dialogue) whose motives, purpose and background are only vaguely explained?!
THIS IS NOT AN ENTERTAINING MOVIE.
But here's the thing. If you are someone where perhaps cinematography, a fully enveloped sense of style and an appreciation of fascinating camera techniques can hold your attention - than it's worth seeing. There's colored lights, in-camera fx tricks, neat CGI melting effects, cloud chamber effects, negative image effects and a cool score and sound design. If you are a movie goer who has a love for weird science fiction and perhaps have enjoyed movies such as THX 1138, Phase IV, 2001, Altered States, Fantastic Planet, The Keep,  The Man Who Fell to Earth or Eraserhead there might be something here for you. However as a warning, those films are probably 10x more "entertaining" as far as story arcs and plot resolutions go compared to Black Rainbow! If you have dipped into some experimental DVD sets like Kenneth Anger, Stan Brakhage or Maya Deran and enjoyed yourself you could give this a whirl. And remember: You can always watch a movie HIGH if so inclined!
And just as a side note, I recently watched a movie called "I CAN SEE YOU" which I might consider nearly a sister film to "Beyond the Black Rainbow." It nearly employs the same style - Strange and unresolved, slowly paced but extremely stylish. It also uses many different camera effects and tricks to keep the viewer engaged. "I CAN SEE YOU" is a peripheral horror movie and "BEYOND THE BLACK RAINBOW " is Peripheral science fiction. Just a recommendation.