This movie had the unique ability to make me nauseated literally from beginning to end.  The plot is shopworn and typical for today's politically correct times - the naive and well-intentioned liberal white, unfamiliar with the vagaries of ghetto life and the evils of white 'privilege' who must be brought up short and 'educated' by the minorities she is, strangely enough, supposed to be teaching.  Of course, as she learns from her students their tales of oppression, lack of opportunity and ongoing poverty, she is truly shamed into helping them, into devising an educational method to enlighten and empower them and, of course, in the process, of enlightening and empowering herself as well.

Somehow, it just isn't their fault that these minority students are involved in gang warfare, that they have a nasty habit of shooting and killing each other, dealing and doing drugs and robbing and mugging innocent bystanders.  And, by gosh, they just can't help doing poorly in school and eventually dropping out, of being without marketable skills and education, of making babies out of wedlock or spreading STD's either.  The liberal white teacher and all she represents is responsible and somehow she must atone for the sins of her people and her society.

Of course, Hilary Swank, who plays the teacher, willingly accepts the blame and becomes, naturally enough, a vociferous advocate of minority racism and white 'guilt'.  'Empowered' now by the heroic stuggles of her students, her mission in life quickly becomes clear.  She must do all she can to 'help' these poor kids but how?  After much deliberation, she has an answer and it is a truly unique one - - a good old fashion dose of, what else?, The Diary of Anne Frank!

Of course!  And if that wasn't enough, how about a hearty serving of 'holocaust' instruction and lectures by people who have 'survived' the 'holocaust'....

Surely the forged and phony 'diary' of a hapless little Jewish girl, a document written, for the most part, in ball point pen before such a writing instrument was even invented, must and will help these students find 'truth'.

Truth?  The irony here is inescapable....Even worse, lessons in 'holocaust' instruction are somehow supposed to teach these children the idea of 'tolerance' yet, judging by the gangster state of Israel's brutal and barbaric treatment of the Palestinian people, the benefits of 'holocaust' instruction seem dubious at best.

This movie is nothing more than a vile piece of Hollywood propaganda and, I am sure, like Schindler's List, is required viewing for all students especially those from inner city schools.  It would seem inculcating young, impressionable minds with 'holocaust' ideology, ensuring they are 'believers' instead of 'deniers', is far more important than teaching these kids the life skills necessary to survive.

In a more normal and rational society, a much better movie would be one that illustrates the importance of education, personal integrity and responsibility with an emphasis of the values of hard work and civic mindedness.  It may not make for good entertainment but would be a much more valuable tool than this politically correct fantasy.