People like to get all excited about the style of "Domino", but all that flash-cut editing and shaky-cam shooting gets really old after the first fifteen minutes, and eventually you start to wonder if all that constant cutting and jumping and shaking is just there to distract you from the horrible story the movie is trying to tell.

Keira Knightley is hot. That seems to be the one thing about the movie everyone can agree on. And yes, they're right, she is. However, not for one moment in this movie is she believable as some sort of butt kicking bounty hunter tough enough to hang with the likes of Mickey Rourke. You briefly get to see her topless though, so I'm sure that's reason enough for some people to buy the movie.

For supposedly being a biography on Domino Harvey, the convoluted mish-mash of a film wastes a lot of time on people who aren't Domino Harvey. There's an entire horrible subplot about Delroy Lindo's mistress Lateesha (who goes on the Jerry Springer show for apparently no reason at all in regards to the rest of the movie) and her terminally ill daughter, which is only some contrived device to justify Domino and her gang taking place in an armoured car heist.

The film is loaded with pointless cameos (Jerry Springer as himself, two 90210 actors tagging along for no reason, and Christopher Walken wasted in a couple scenes as a TV producer) and about halfway through the movie it seems like they just couldn't figure out what to do with Mickey Rourke, so after being one of the main characters for so long you basically don't hear from him until the film's climax, which is so overdone you're rolling your eyes by the time the credits finally start.

There are a couple bright spots in the film - the opening credits are cool, Mickey Rourke is Mickey Rourke, you get to see Keira Knightley topless, and Tom Waits pops in as the movie's only interesting cameo (he plays some sort of prophet or something) - but overall "Domino" is a sloppy mess of a film, a true 'see what sticks' experiment gone wrong. The story is barely cohesive and most of the time completely uninteresting, and the visual style of the film is trying so hard to be hip and cool by constantly changing camera angles and constrast levels and tints that the director comes across as some show-off film student that really needs to be roped in.

Avoid "Domino" like a plague.