I'm a really big fan of Jack Webb and his work. This DVD set is well worth having if you like Mr. Webb and love his kind of shows like Adam -12, Emergency etc. I grew up with these shows. But there are a couple of things that I feel I should mention.

1. The price for 17 episodes and the only extra being a radio show is really too much! As mentioned by another reviewer, get a used copy if you can.

2. At the start of every episode ( every single one! ), there is a 20 to 30 second Universal Pictures introduction, like we are going to forget who released this set! It's the same introduction as they have on their feature films. Once is nice, but at the start of all 17 episodes is a little too much...

That said and done. I would also like to mention that the quality of the video and sound is extremely good. For as old as this show is, it could have been worse. The menus are easy to navigate through. Some behind the scenes extras would have been nice, but who knows if they even exist. Some commentary by Harry Morgan ( God bless him! ) would have been excellent!

The people who mentioned that the disks would not play on their DVD players. I have a possible solution. Older players, over three to five years old seem to have problems playing the newer DVD disks, why this is, I'm not sure. It may have something to do with the copy guards that some companies are useing to stop disk piracy. I think I saw a logo on the box saying this set has been copy guarded. I have a DVD player I bought back in 2001 and it won't play some disks that I have bought recently. My newer player, bought last year, so far has not had this problem. Please keep in mind that this is just a guess on my part.

I do hope that they will release the rest of this series ( 4 more seasons ), I almost hate to think what the price for a full season will be from now on. But being a fan of the show, I will definitely get them, but I probably will be hunting around for the best price. Incidentally, I bought my set for $27.99 at Best Buys. I bought another season set from another series I'm collecting and the cash register automatically dropped the price $5.00 on each set when the cashier rang up my purchase!! Saving $10.00 was an unexpected gift!!