This 'international version' of John Woo's RED CLIFF is the preferred edition over the previously released (and shorter) US theatrical version.  Woo worked hard to shoot this epic adaption of a famous Chinese historical novel, and the final version of the movie was so long (closer to 5 hours than 4) that in Asian markets the film was released in two parts, each playing in cinemas at opposite ends of a near 12 month period.  In the US, the UK and Australia, Woo tentatively gave approval for a cut-down version to play in cinemas, with both parts condensed by 50% down to a single movie.  Australian critic David Stratton (a frequent reviewer for VARIETY) gave the condensed version a good, not great review, but then noted that he felt the full, uncut edition of RED CLIFF was one of the great cinema epics.  And so it is.

  Woo's career seemed to take a gradual downturn in the US after the peak of FACE/OFF, and it would be hard for fans of the director's earlier HARD-BOILED or BULLET IN THE HEAD (both great films) to share the same sense of enthusiasm for works like MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2 or the aptly titled PAYCHECK.  Woo reportedly wasn't that happy with things either, so when he announced he would return to Asia to shoot the biggest historical epic in Chinese film history, it was welcome news.  (RED CLIFF is based on the same story that was adapted for THREE KINGDOMS, filmed not too long ago with Andy Lau and the lithe, hypnotically sexy Maggie Q). Woo regular Chow Yun Fat was in RED CLIFF, then out.  Another Woo regular, Tony Leung, was in, then out, then back in (long story).  Once the casting issues were resolved, Woo took his good time to shoot the movie that had apparently tantalized him for decades.  The result is a real return to form and a consummate display of confidence from a director clearly passionate about the subject matter, and the movie.

RED CLIFF is epic from the get-go.  In the first few minutes (of the long cut - this review deals with the 2-part extended cut listed here and will hereafter ignore the shorter version) the narrative puts events in motion for an army of thousands to commence a destructive attack across the kingdoms of China.  We see thousands of soldiers (some realized digitally, others through enormous crowds of extras) and soon see a smaller band of heroes putting up a spirited defense.  Characters escape the melee, seek shelter, join forces with others and prepare to make a stand against the attackers in a series of battles that escalate in size and complexity throughout the two movies.  Tony Leung and Takeshi Kaneshiro are two of the main heroes.  There are several other key characters fighting alongside them, and a villain of imposing stature fighting against them, determined to wipe out the heroes and consolidate his rule.  Each side possesses an army, but the forces of good are outnumbered by their enemies. Interpersonal intrigue, moments of heroism and bravery, lyrical interludes where the characters philosophically ponder their situation and careful scenes where each side pragmatically plots their next movie against their opponent - these all flow forward in scenes of great beauty, warmth and power, preparing the ground for each skirmish, battle or stand-off.  The opposing sides gather in numbers until, at the end of part 2, we witness a ferocious, climactic attack taking place on sea and land, with thousands determined to battle to the death.

I've generalized the story above, partly for my own sake but more specifically as I suggest you catch the various incidents of the movie fresh.  The story as presented by Woo is elegant and satisfying.  The devil is in the details, though, and its Woo's marshalling of texture and sound, his characteristically kinetic and mobile camerawork, and the sheer bravura of the films spectacle that make this a must-see movie.  Scenes in RED CLIFF, particularly the epic destructive battles comprising much of the spectacular second part, match Jackson's LORD OF THE RINGS for effects, grandiose scale and visceral impact.  (Actually, I'd clarify that statement by suggesting that the RED CLIFF films match those earlier movies visually, but surpass them viscerally, as Woo's staging of the action is more physically impactful than Jacksons).  The US effects house The Orphanage provided the visual effects, and the enormous budget complements those with countless eye-opening scenes staged for real with crowds, stunt men and gargantuan sets.  Woo (and his producer Terence Chang) have really pulled out all the stops.  I viewed RED CLIFF on DVD but if you have the equipment and the interest, the Blu-Ray edition of this extended cut should be even more enticing.  (The HK Blu-Ray of these movies received top marks for AV quality and I'd imagine the US release replicates those standards).

RED CLIFF - the full, uncensored, no-holds-barred two-part version - didn't really get the attention it deserved upon release, (at least here in the West), nor has it since.  (Another fine film, Kim Je-Woon's big-budget, visionary Korean western THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE WEIRD, suffered a similar fate).  Even so, a few astute critics such as Glenn Kenny put the full RED CLIFF high in their top 10 for the year.  I'd argue the same (it'd be in my top 5), and months after I originally acquired the DVD's of this movie, I still return to it in admiration, luxuriating in its many moments of grace, beauty and power.

As Amazon occasionally conflates its reviews of variant products into the same listing, let me repeat that the edition of this film you should purchase is the RED CLIFF INTERNATIONAL VERSION - PART I & PART II, on either Blu-Ray or DVD.  The editions labeled as featuring the `theatrical' version are shorter, inferior, and not worth pursuing over this longer, more satisfying cut.