The Robe is a movie about the Roman's during the time of Jesus.  It describes events surrounding a `robe' that Jesus wore before his crucifixion.  But the story is not simple focused around the robe.  Instead  it includes many sub-plots such as a love story between Marcellus, the main  character, and his childhood friend whom he promised to marry years ago.  This robe is supposedly cursed and affects the main character in terrible  ways.  The story shows life at the time of Jesus' crucifixion.  However, this movie leave the viewer with much to be desired.  In fact, the  movie was terrible.  The characters in this movie were terrible.  The  acting was not believable.  For example, when Marcellus' slave (a was too  busy thinking about when the movie was going to be over to note his name,  although I was trying to take notes to keep from falling asleep) is whipped  by the Romans as Jesus is carrying the cross (in actuality Jesus didn't  carry the entire cross but really just one beam, the other was already  staked into the ground) I simply did not believe that he was in pain.  And  then he got up after the kind woman cleaned him off and started walking  directly toward the camera, like he was a rabid dog, was simple bizarre.  I got confused in this scene because of the poor filming.  When the camera  changed I thought there were others whom had also been whipped and that  there were four people in the scene (two people that had been whipped) In  actuality the angle on the two people (slave and kind woman) had changed  dramatically.  This movie's redeeming factors were supposed to be the  costume design, set decoration and art direction, for which this movie won  Oscars for this things (please note that the movie didn't win for any  acting, directing, producing, ect categories) Yet in today's word of movies  these things didn't seem at all important.  It was hard to focus on the  fantastic set when I was trying very hard not to fall asleep  This  movie was the first to be filmed in CinemaScope, but I was not impressed.  You would think they could have done a better job with cutting it down to  TV size.  At the beginning, some of the names on the opening credits were  cut off, quite annoying.  And even in the movie people were talking when  they were not on stage.  The Robe was based on a book.  And for the  readers of the book, I hope they found the books more interesting than the  movie, because I would rather gag myself with a wooden spoon, and then  stick my tongue into a food processor (maybe not) then watch this movie a  second time.  The tittle, The Robe, simply explains what this is  going to be about.  But the movie would have been more interesting if it  had simple been about a talking robe.  The people who had speaking roles in  this movie did not deserve them.  This movie was written during the  1950's.  Perhaps it were better liked then, in the culture without the  Internet, ect.  It was not written during a war, but I wish I would have  been-then maybe it would have been destroyed in combat before it could have  even been mass produced.  I think I might devote my life to ridding the  world of this terrible movie as a public service,--NOT ONE ELSE SHOULD  WASTE THEIR TIME WATCHING IT AGAIN.  This movie was written almost  two millenniums about the events happened.  Therefore the writers of the  script (which was terrible)  really did not know what they were talking  about.  For example: no one spoke English in Rome.  I wish this movie was  in Latin, (without subtitles) therefore the only people who could  understand it were those who were patient enough to learn fluent Latin.  The would definitely improve this movie for the simple reason that it would  stop people from seeing it.  There is no other ways to improve this movie,  it is simple too bad to make good. Time to start over.