I purchased this DVD with my eyes wide open, because I had been forwarned by reviewers I respect, and I still place Dylan's 1977 "Renaldo and Clara" near the top of my most pretentiuos doo doo list. But wait, that was almost 30 years ago and this movie stars Jeff Bridges AND John Goodman (the Dude abides), also Jessica Lange, Giovanni Ribisi, Val Kilmer, Bruce Dern, Mickey Rourke and was co-written and directed by Larry Charles of Seinfeld and Friends fame, so how bad could it be?
Well I planned on watching it one night but after about 30 minutes became fatiqued and fell asleep. This went on for about 3 more nights until I finally finished the movie. The week before I had watched the uncut "Heaven's Gate" (nearly 4 hours), a deliberate slowly paced film, in one sitting, and yet "M and A" seemed so much longer. I also skipped watching the few deleted scenes (something I can't remember ever doing), and went straight for the "Making Of" and watched and listened to those involved talking about the great script and a movie I can't remember seeing.
I realize now that deleted scenes would be overkill since the entire movie seems like it's just a bunch of strung together deleted scenes. This is not to say the movie is unwatchable, I had kept coming back to it night after night, in fact there are some very entertaining and surreal moments in the film, I just wish there had been more of them. For starters I would have liked to have seen more of Ribisi, for he was the most focused in his part (though it also seemed like he was in another movie), they could have beefed up the Christian Slater-Chris Penn bits or even made them the main characters and created a sort of Abbott and Costello Meet Jack Fate. Val Kilmer was great, but he disappeared too soon, and some of the songs Dylan did with his band were pretty good, but they could have given the young girl (Tinashe Kachingwe), who stole the show singing "The Times They Are A-Changin'", more of Dylan's songs to sing.
The best part of the film for me was Jeff Bridges as a Dudesque reporter asking Dylan's Jack Fate lots of bizarre questions, in fact a short that just edited together all these bits would be enjoyable.
I guess that's most of the good stuff, but on the other hand, I wish they had removed the entire subplot concerning his dying father (Richard Sarafian) Angela Bassett, and Mickey Rourke, and despite old man makeup, his father still looks younger than Bob (things must have been pretty bad in prison).
Less of Lange and Goodman would have made it less irratating, and Luke Wilson and particularly Penelope Cruz should have ended up on the cuttingroom floor. I'm not sure what to make of Ed Harris in black-face except that I felt like he was a refugee from some old Fellini film.
Bob Dylan acts like he sings which isn't so bad in a film where  many of the other actors are so over-the-top, and watching him is like looking at an abstract painting, it doesn't ever change but you keep looking at it to try and find some inner meaning.
This is Larry Charles first film and judging by his TV work you would have expected it to be at least funny, but where "Seinfeld" was supposed to be a TV show about nothing but was actually about alot, this movie really is about nothing.