Apt Pupil is not the standard Stephen King adaptation. This film has but one dismemberment, and very little of the standard visceral carnage that is featured in most of his books and the films they are adapted to. In this, the Stephen King fanatic may be very disappointed.
But Apt Pupil should not be tossed aside so easily. This film is a terrifying psychological thriller that will leave you dazed after viewing it. The story is that of young Todd Bowden, a straight-A high-school student who discovers his German neighbor is actually a Nazi war criminal and tries to manipulate him into sharing his terrifying past. Todd's queries reawaken the devil inside the old man, and as he is absorbed into the Nazi psyche himself, Todd begins to develop an incredible capacity for evil...becoming the old man's "apt pupil."
Both actors play their parts superbly. Brad Renfro is perfectly cast as the innocent-turned-evil, playing an intense young man with a capacity to do great things, while Ian McKellen plays the Nazi Kurt Dussander as far more than an old man...like a frail, but terrifying force of pure evil. McKellen even pulls off a perfect German accent...his Dussander is flawless.
The film's terror comes not from the deaths involved, which there are many of, or the horrifying stories Dussander tells. The moments where the film shines are parts akin to the one where Todd forces Dussander to don an SS uniform and salute him as he would the Fuhrer, or when one of Dussander's former victims recognizes him in the hospital after having a friendly chat with Todd minutes before about the man's condition. 
The film is accompanied by John Ottman's wonderful music, his moody and deep orchestrals setting the perfect mood, while the creepily cheerful "Das ist Berlin" almost makes you shudder.
The dialogue is sometimes flawed, and seems unrealistic, as when Dussander is approached by the homeless man, or when Todd argues with the Nazi about school. Also, the film's pace is slightly rushed, and seems a little off...but these are minor flaws to a masterpiece. Bryan Singer deserves a laurel wreath for this.