Tim Burton clearly enjoys his craft.  Like BATMAN, BEETLEJUICE, and every other Burton feature, everything about SLEEPY HOLLOW looks and feels right.  The colors are slightly washed out, giving the film a creepy, slightly surreal nature; trees don't just grow upward, but rather gnarl themselves into screaming wooden sculptures -- atmosphere and sets are as important as characterization in a Burton piece, and SLEEPY HOLLOW never disappoints in any of these elements.  Like any Burton film, SLEEPY HOLLOW -- as a film -- is well worth owning.  However, SLEEPY HOLLOW as a DVD leaves only a bit to be desired -- due once again to a sub-par Director's Commentary track.
I believe filmmaking is, for Burton, an intensely personal experience.  And for this reason, I think Burton -- who seems painfully shy at moments -- has a difficult time discussing such a personal craft comfortably. The Director's commentary for the film, while sometimes interesting, still doesn't provide the viewer with the sort of payoff most are probably looking for and may expect from a visionary like Burton.
The commentary certainly has its moments -- such as Burton's constant guffaws at Jeffrey Jones' impossibly huge wig, or his use of the word "amazing" so many times that you'll start counting them -- but if you're looking for some behind-the-scenes moments or discussion of the craft of specific scenes, you won't find much of it here.  Burton nips at the edges -- he does a good job, for instance, talking about some of the actors and his admiration for them -- but those Wow-That's-Really-Interesting moments viewers like to find in director's commentaries are missing.
A bit more helpful is the "Behind The Legend" featurette, which shows some of the surprisingly complicated lengths the filmmakers went through to make even some of the smallest moments just right, such as digitizing the faces of skeletons in the flames of a fire.  The featurette also put to rest debates we had in our household about how the crew had pulled off the Headless Horseman bit -- is it a guy in a built up costume?  Is it all special effect?  Or a bit of both?  The featurette will show you.  Good stuff.
SLEEPY HOLLOW is Burton at his finest -- his natural tendencies as a filmmaker seem to lean toward this kind of creepy period piece -- but the craft Burton puts into his film doesn't come through on the commentary track.  It's a shame, because Burton is clearly trying to put into words his enthusiasm for his film.  He just never quite gets there.  Fortunately, while Burton's gifts aren't readily apparent on the commentary, they are in full display in the film itself.
Five stars for the film itself, but the director's commentary (like his commentary for PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE) pulls the overall rating for this one down just a notch to a four.