Those of you familiar with the hit TV show "House, M.D." will surely be left scratching your head after watching this ill-conceived prequel.

From what I gathered after watching the movie, "House" shows us the early days of the titular character we've all grown to love from the hit Fox TV show.  What I don't quite get is why House's name in this movie is Roger Cobb.

But let's forget that for a moment and move onto the plot.

Set in the days before House went to med school, "House" tells the story of Cobb (played here by the talented William Katt), a Vietnam vet/writer staying in his aunt's house.

Now, I have to admit, I liked this aspect of the story.  Every week we see House as this curmudgeon with a penchant for solving the most complex of medical cases.  What we don't see is why he is so difficult to get along with.  Well, for those of us who are veterans of the Vietnam War, we can certainly understand House's short-comings now.

I also liked the fact that House was a writer before he decided to become a doctor.  As an aspiring writer myself, I can empathize with wanting to quit the profession altogether and start over.  Perhaps we'll see the writing-side of House come out in future episodes!

Unfortunately, that's the only thing I liked about "House."  It doesn't take long for the movie to get completely weird.

While staying in the house, Cobb's son mysteriously disappears.  That doesn't sound weird to you?  What if I told you that [SPOILER ALERT] the house took him?  That's right, the house that Cobb is staying in is haunted.  The house causes him to have Vietnam flashbacks, monsters start coming out of the closet, and medicine cabinets open up different dimensions.  Like I said - weird.

All of that aside, I think it's fascinating that Cobb would later move on with his life and change his name to House.  An interesting choice of surnames, but after watching the movie I'm sure you'll agree it's an appropriate one.

While I can't recommend "House" to all fans of "House, M.D.," I will say that some of you will glean some new details about your favorite character that you never knew.  So for that, I applaud it.