In this new anime series, we are asked to envision a near future where vampires are an ever present threat, where humans can be implanted with chips that make them ghouls and blood drinkers ...and where the heirs of Van Helsing have founded an organization to fight this menace - The Royal Order of Religious Knights.  
Aiding Sir (Lady) Integra Wingates Hellsing in her fight is Arucard (sometimes Alucard), a vampire of great power, who looks on the modern vampire as a shallow imitation.  Arucard's (spell it backwards) exact relationship with the Hellsing family is never made completely clear, but his aesthetic revulsion for those who should be considered his equals is totally clear.  He is a spectacular creature whose flash styling and considerable attitude make him a true centerpiece
for the story.
...P>'The Undead' pits Arucard against a renegade priest who is making ghouls in a small English town.  In this episode we are introduced to Seras Victoria (possibly Victoria Seras) a policewoman who is killed when Arucard dusts the priest.  He makes her a vampire at her request.
In 'Club M' Arucard must bring down a pair of vampire lovers who are literally strafing the countryside with their fangs.  Victoria, is now a member of the Hellsing force, and is having tough a tough time dealing with her new reality.
 
Arucard is always at the center of this tale, but the real story arc of this series is not the master vampire, but Victoria, who is unprepared for her change to the dark side.  Without some character development, she may very well not survive.  She is not a particularly sympathetic, unable to defend herself as a human, and little better when changed.  She is approaching a crisis that will play itself out in future episodes.
As a production, Hellsing is remarkable.  Stylish characters play against a vibrant setting with a steady level of action.  The music is varied and well done.  And the dialog is simplistic, but not unacceptably so.  Anime and vampire fans should find this a very interesting development.  My biggest complaint comes from the somewhat inept Anglicization of the Japanese script.  Almost every possible mistake of translation and transcription has been made, and this is extremely distracting.  I do recommend that the viewer turn on the subtitles and avoid the overlaid dialog.
One final complaint.  The DVD itself offers very slim pickings - the three episodes total slightly more than an hour and of extras there is nearly nil.  This is intended to be a nine part series, and only greed has kept it from being fit onto two DVDs.  This is a case where good artistic content is spoiled by an excessively mercenary attitude.