The thing about Historical movies is that people who watch them sometimes really ARE interested in History. Go figure. And the inattention to History in the name of History seems a good reason to be frustrated with the film.
I'm not an expert on the subject, and I think I did learn a few things, and was entertained. The battle scenes are interestingly created even if there are a few romantic inaccuracies like the Irish and Scots not fighting each other. I didn't "love the tartans" as one reviewer put it, but I'm not sure they were really Tartans. And I did find the scenes of conflict and subjugation by the English soldiers, looking like so many Imperial Roman troops, of the Scots natives looking like any original British (celtic) isle natives, beaten and downtrodden by their masters, very compelling.
Patrick MacGoohan is great as the evil king Edward Longshanks. And of course, he's the real reason I got this movie in the first place. (I humbly admit to planning to employ the FF button.) Sophie Marceau, as his daughter-in-law, Princess Isabella, is stunningly beautiful. But if you know anything about her character in History, you know it's not likely she was a lover of Freedom and the masses anymore than her father-in-law was. Does it matter? Well, maybe not to you. And the portrayal of her [homosexual] husband, the future Edward II, is borderline offensive. He's the stereotypically weak and effeminate homosexual, who unlike the butch heterosexual men is actually frightened by the severed head of his relative, and is not good at, uh, fighting. Lets pray Gibson doesn't make a movie about Alexander the Great. The actor playing Robert the Bruce is very good, and there are moments of nice interplay between him and his increasingly scrofulous father who is angling to get his son the throne. But Bruce comes off kind of as a pampered noble in the grip of Machiavellian forces, whereas in actual fact Bruce may have been much rougher. You won't hear the schoolchild story about the Spider Surviving in this film. It's all about Wallace, and Wallace is all about Gibson.
There's a documentary about the making of the film on the DVD, which looked like it could have been very interesting--I wanted to hear more about lenses, but after five minutes of Mel is great. Mel is great. Mel is great," and two seconds of "You know. William Wallace was a REAL person," I had to stop watching...