Back in the days when the studios could pump out a film in 6 months from writer to marquee topper we get the next James Bond film in just under a year - From Russia With Love. There's continuity aplenty, Sean Connery still looks youthful, M and Miss Moneypenny are along for the ride and even Sylvia Trench (who appeared in Connery's first scenes as Bond) returns as Connery's `regular' girlfriend who was intended as an ongoing character in the film series but makes her last appearance here. Really who let their hunky spy boyfriend keep tripping off on missions for months and sleeping with other gorgeous women anyway? Other firsts for the sequel are the first ever pre-credits sequence for a Bond film which actually relate to the story on this occasion and the first appearances of Ernst Stavro Blofeld, the head of SPECTRE but only his voice is heard and his hands patting his pet pussy are seen. Then there's Desmond Llewellyn appearing as `Q' short for Quartermaster, referred to as Major Boothroyd (he has a real name!)in this one. The secret service armourer responsible for supplying beloved field agents with all manner of gadgets and weapons. He only appears briefly in FRWL introducing one of Bond's most famous gadgets, a deadly attach&eacute; case complete with easily assembled snipers rifle, tear gas and a throwing knife built in and if your expense accounts dry while on mission, it has gold sovereigns as well. With a rocking weapon and even more rocking locales this Bond film has to go down as one of the classics, more a forgotten classic that's overshadowed by it's successors and distinct that it's plot doesn't follow the usual Bond Pattern of "British-agent-gets-murdered-Bond-investigates-meets-suspicious- characters-and-saucy-women-and-eventually-gets-captured-in-main-villain's-complex-that-is-eventually-blown-up-following-a-raid" Whew! Actually out of all the Bond films this one has probably the most complex plot, courtesy of Richard Maibaum, returning again as screen scribe, as does Terence Young as director and John Barry giving the film one of the most punchy and recognizable music scores of the entire series. Terence Young really maintains the style and feel he created on Dr. No and extends it with more characters and more ambitious action set pieces. The atypical storyline gives it twists and turns unusual for the series as the character of Bond himself, seemingly in control really doesn't seem to know how out of his depth he is in the game the SPECTRE is playing. The mission is all based on the MI6 being notified of the defection of a beautiful Russian cipher clerk, who has 'fallen in love' with Bonds photo (center spread from spy monthly?) She promises to aid the Brits in getting their hands on a Lektor decoding machine if James will help her defect personally. MI6 believe it's an obvious trap so obvious it has to be sprung. SPECTRE are aiming for payback for Dr. No's killing, getting a Lektor decoder for themselves and giving the British secret service a black eye - all this and incriminating footage of Bond and Tatiana in the bedroom and they nearly manage to pull this plan off! The closest the bad guys ever get to completing a flawless plan in the franchise. The setting in Istanbul and later on the Orient Express hurtling through Yugoslavia is the perfect seting for this thriller and the tension builds up thanks to the superb supporting cast including Pedro Armenda`riz playing lovable rogue and head of station T Turkey, Ali Kerim Bey, Bond's liaison. Sadly Pedro died before the film was released. Lotte Lenya as the slimy Rosa Clebb, the not-so-closet Lesbian colonel who has defected to SPECTRE from mother Russia and the delightful Daniela Bianchi who takes her orders from Clebb to do anything Bond says Bond and eventually does fall for Bond.  Plus Red Grant, one of SPECTRE's best assassins played by Robert Shaw. He glides through the background shadows protecting Bond and his associates from death guiding the SPECTRE plan to its conclusion until he can enact the coup de grace. Silent and menacing for the first two thirds of the film, then totally believable as Bond's better and smarter opposite number, who first replaces Bonds contact and then gets the drop on him. He's scary every time he utters a line! Which brings us to the set pieces of this gem. None really detract from the story as they would in later entries and serve to move the plot along rapidly. The pace still holds up today. From the crowded fight between warring gypsy and Bulgarians factions in the gypsy village that including one of the earliest on screen cat-fights, to the brutal final fight scene between Bond and Grant in the dark train carriage of the Orient Express every one is a highlight. As are the final chase sequences where Bond is chased first on foot by helicopter and then by a small fleet of enemy boats that he takes care of with some petrol tanks and a flare gun. The chemistry sparks between the two leads from the moment they meet, 007 ranging from being perfectly dismissive of his Russian flame, slipping from charming to brutal toward her due to her dubious motives. As for the disc itself, it is also brutal in its total depth of colour and sound. A resplendent 5.1 surround sound mix (can you believe the first DVD release of this picture came out in mono -ouch!) and a picture of flawless quality are the perfect match, amazing to see a forty six year old movie being restored to look as if it was made yesterday - well apart from the fashions giving it away again of course. There is also a platter of delicious extras from a making of, to a look at the growing popularity of Bond. They always put a solid amount of material in these Bond DVD's. A satisfying tale, amazingly the original novel of the story was listed in President Kennedy's top ten books in 1962, a unique twist in the novel is that Bond is seemingly killed off in what is the second to last scene of the film, would have been a sad end to a Classic Bond film thankfully avoided. MORE!