Well I know some will think I am an idiot, but I do love this movie.  I saw this like 17 years ago and have thought about it off and on.  I did not, however, have any recollection of the ending.  It's just me I am often intrigued by movies that have sort of a predistiny theme.  And I do like the horror aspects of the movie.  Sure as some have stated, it is not very scary like one that would keep you on edge, but I do like the use of monsters and sense of being outcasts. And well the gore is not bad either.

The acting is not perfect, but is very acceptable.

I do not understand what one reviewer was talking about when commening on the dvd quality that the format is merely black bars slapped on full screen edit.  I do not know when that person's dvd was releasd.  This version that I have received was released in 2001 (Night Breed itself seems to have been released in theaters in 1990? I first viewed this movie on vhs in about '93 or '94)  And perhaps they released one of differing quality in Germany than what I have received.  Mine is a very well put together wide screen edtion with NO black bars... It stretches accross my 27 inch monitor and shows a panarama of the visiuals wide screen is meant to show.  The picture definition is just perfect as well.

Now... sort of a spoiler coming up without revealing details:

As I've stated over the years I have forgotten the end to this movie before purchasing this dvd... The reson I did not give this movie 4 or even 5 stars is that I really really hate it when movies end with cliff hangers when absolutely no intention of a sequel is in sight.  It's been close to21 years since this movie has been realeased in theaters, so there is no hope of that now. Perhaps because it's may be from comic books or novels, none of which I have read, but they could do something better with the ending of a movie feature, or it's a ploy to get you to buy other Night Breed material, not sure.  (I don't know, it seems that they are going to make a sequel of The Dark Crystal this year in 2011 after 29 years of the release.  Although I do not know how they will accomplish this without Jim Henson, nor why they would attempt to write a sequel when the movie was complete as it was with all lose ends tied up. Running out of ideas, I suppose, for new and original films, maybe?)  Rambling aside I will continue to watch NightBreed  again and again as I am drawn to most everything else about it.

Oh and I must state that I have received the very best oppurtunity by chosing Sirius Books as a merchant.  I normally do not like to take a chance with used product unless I very much have to, and well with the merchants selling it new asking for 35 dollars and over, it just had to be done.  The product was advertised "Like New" and that's exactly how I received it.  Mint conditon with perfect playback not even a mark on the disc nor the box(just looks like new as if the plastic was pulled off and left untouched), um and this for just under 9, yes 9 dollars including shipping.[...]