This 1980s feminist fable is about the pampered and weak JAP (Jewish-American Princess) Judy Benjamin, who wants nothing more than to be married to a rich and successful man and be able to spend lots of money.  She has been cared for by men for her entire life and has no skills, independence, or serious ambitions.  After she is widowed, she falls for a recruiter's sales pitch and joins the Army, believing that it will be like going to a spa and will help her recover from the emotional blow of her husband's death.  There is great comic potential here, but the movie lacks the sort of sharp writing that would have taken it to the next level.  Nonetheless, it obviously strikes a cord with many viewers.
The first half of this film is inoffensive, sitcom-grade material.  (In fact, a sitcom based on the film ran from 1981 to 1983.)  Goldie Hawn's alternately cutesy/whiny act during basic training gets tiring quickly -- she's like a child who keeps begging for our attention -- and the film rarely manages to capitalize on the comic potential of the situations.  Still, it does set up well how her parents' visit to the Army base reminds her of their degrading treatment of her, making her resolve to be the best soldier possible.  We cheer for her to succeed.  She does, of course, becoming a strong and independent woman in the Army.
The second, more serious half of the movie is somewhat more satisfying, as we watch Private Benjamin fight not to let her new French beau Henri bully her into reverting to her shallow, weak, pre-Army self.  Her romance with the despicable Henri is the most interesting part of the film, in part because Arman Assante plays his part so well: charming but condescending and unfaithful.
The picture quality on the DVD is average for a film from 1980.  The DVD includes the trailer and short biographies of the major actors.  The film is captioned in several languages and can be heard with French dubbing.  It does not include a widescreen version, just pan-and-scan.