2007 Summerslam
August 26, 2007
Continental Airlines Arena
East Rutherford, New Jersey

Kane V. Finlay
ok opener here. Just your average match with nothing note worhtly. Kane wins. **1/4

Triple Threat Match for the WWE Intercontinental Championship:
Umaga (Champion) V. Mr Kennedy V. Carlito
good match but should have been one-on-one with Umaga and Kennedy. Carlito really does nothing here. Again, good match, watchable, but let's about it. **3/4

Rey Mysterio V. Chavo Guerrero
The return of Rey and what a return! great match here with great in ring work and storytelling. Of course Rey wins in his return. ***3/4. Chavo was very good as a heel here. If with the right people, he could be a main event heel...HAHAHAHA...joking. But, Chavo is dieing in his position now. He is better than what people give him credit for.

Interpromotional Divas Battle Royal:
Winner Get A Women's Championship Match
Mickie James V. Jillian Hall V. Beth Phoenix V. Kelly Kelly V. maria V. Michelle McCool V. Torrie Wilson V. Kristal V. Layla V. Brooke V. Melina V. Victoria
Goddamn, that's alot of names for a short review. Beth Phoenix wins in a match that was better looking at the ladies than the in ring work. DUD

ECW Championship:
John Morrison (Champion) V. CM Punk
I really don't get why they keep putting those two together, they have no chemistry at all. This is the three straight PPV that those two have worked together and all the matches have sucked and this one was no different. Just barely watchable because of Punk and Morrison is a better tag team wrestler than singles wrestler. Morrison wins by cheating. *1/2

Triple H V. King Booker
The return of The Game and I was actaully disappointed. This match was good, but not as good as their WrestleMania XIX match. Booker was on his way out and his effort wasn't there and Triple H was just returning, but, this match could have been better. Triple H wins. ***

World Heavyweight Championship:
Great Khali (Champion) V. Batista
Just one word. Horrible. This is the third straight Summerslam with horrible World Heavyweight Title matches and Batista has been in them all. Batista wins by DQ after Khali destroys him for the whole match and Batista gets a spinebuster in and Khali is afraid. Big Baby. 1/4* I hope the World Heavyweight Championship match at this year's Summerslam will be alot better than 2005, 2006, and 2007. Can anyone say Punk V. Cena?????

WWE Champioship:
John Cena (Champion) V. Randy Orton
what a match!! The best WWE Championship match at a Summerslam since Angle/Lesner in 2003. Awesome storytelling and wrestling in this one. Match of the night and match of the year canadiate. Awesome. Cena retains. DAMN....NO...****

Overall a so-so Summerslam. The return of Rey was great, Triple H's return was good too, but Booker sucks so you can't really say much. The WWE Championship was the best in 4 years and the other matches were just an after thought.