The only thing that (somewhat) seperates this "beautiful star has good intentions for her 'people in the hood'" film is that the racial lines are clearly drawn and somewhat offending, somewhat comical.

We meet Honey Daniels, who is a Hip Hop Dance instructor at the Community Center by afternoon and a Bartender by night that uses her "after hours" at the club to show off her moves. And, as we all seen coming, she meets a video producer one night at the club who offers her the opportunity she's been waiting for: to choreograph and dance in a music video.

Things on going well until the produce (a goofy looking white boy) puts on the moves on Honey and she shoots him down.  And, as expected, this same producer fires her, along with the 'hood kids she got dance parts for in the new video, and hires her dance-archenemy, Katrina.

Honey is so broken hearted; not about her loss, but the loss of those poor kids.  So she decides to do something about it: she wants to open her own dance studio.  Yet she lacks the funds to get off the ground.

Never one to be pessimistic, Honey devises a plan to raise the money: a dance benefit.  She's out pumpin' the neighborhood for donations while, in the meantime, that silly, oversexed white boy of a producer is preparing to produce a new video for Missy Elliot.  Elliot shoots the producer down when she finds out her video is going to be choreographed by Katrina (who Elliot describes as a thief of M.C. Hammer's moves) instead of Honey.

Just when Honey thinks she may have a tough go of raising the dough, that goofy lookin' boy pops up again and this time he's begging and pleading and apologizing to Honey trying to get her to come back to work for him.  This time, she bursts his little bubble with a resounding "No!"

It's a story that has been done one too many times.  As with all the rest, it was okay but will never be ranked as a favorite. I'd recommend it only when cable offers nothing else; you know, like when it's those wee morning hours and there's nothing but infomercials...that's a good time!