If you're reading this, I'm assuming you've seen the film. Due to this assumption, spoilers follow, so consider yourself warned.

If you haven't seen the film ... consider yourself lucky.

White Noise 2 has been called "a retarded Sixth Sense", a charge that offends both the mentally disabled and anyone who even moderately enjoyed the Sixth Sense.

While my expectations for any direct-to-DVD movie are understandably low, watching White Noise 2 actually lowered my standards to heretofore unknown depths.

From the Scooby Doo scares to the incredibly poor CGI effects, this movie claims its rightful place in bargain bins around the world and as a featured selection during Amazon's frequent $5 DVD sales.

Occasionally, bad films can also be fun films. That is not the case here. This film is so earnest in its attempt to be morose that it even renders poor Captain Reynolds unfunny, something I thought impossible. There are few things more off-putting than ludicrous trash that tries to play it straight.

After the movie was over, I played a game with myself called, "Which is More Ridiculous?", in which I evaluated certain aspects of the film in order to come to a conclusion about which, among  the many absurd elements contained in the film, was actually the most asinine:

Is it the doctor with the goatee and the earring who likes Elvis (he's got Elvis memorabilia everywhere! It's a character trait, see?) and runs a grant-sponsored "ghost monitoring" program, complete with requisite multi-monitor uber-hacker station recently borrowed from Kevin Smith's character from Live Free or Die Hard?

Is it that said uber-hacker station resides in the laundry room of your average suburban hospital?

Could it be that a man who attempts suicide can just walk out of a hospital, no questions asked? Or that said hospital has possibly the worst security of all time? A woman is brutally attacked and nearly abducted in the parking garage, and no one is the wiser. Nathan Fillion acts like a suspicious lunatic in the hallway, nobody says, "boo".

Could it be Nathan Fillion's silly urban hoodie / suit combo that he wears for more than half of the movie?

Maybe it's that the entire plot hinges around one character's bible-slash-journal which actually contains entries like a picture of the devil with the caption, "Lucifer?" Or maybe that said character (a convicted murderer) has been in an asylum for three months, and yet his home computer is still on and the screen immediately shows the last thing he was looking at? Or that his son is playing Sly Cooper, a PS2-era game on a 52 inch screen? Doesn't that kid know any better?! Hello, jaggies!

Or perhaps how the director loved certain shots so much that he shows them multiple times from different camera angles, to show us how totally rad they are? How many times do we have to see a piano fall on top of people? The answer, sir or madam, is three times. How many times must we see a bicycle-riding ghost go right through a car? Twice, because it's that cool.

Given all of this, it's clear that this movie should have been called White Noise 2: The Lamening (pronounced lay-men-ning), due to the huge helpings of lame it serves up at every turn. The plot is horrid. The pacing is turgid. The dialogue is insipid. The score is haphazard and an annoyance at best. The makeup effects were leftovers from The Frighteners (a better movie).

I submit to you that White Noise 2: Electric Boogaloo would have also been an appropriate name, as it would have tied into the whole EVP nonsense, and also indicated what a monstrous stinker this film is. The tagline should have been: You Won't See It Coming, Because You Won't Care.

There is, however, one redeeming quality to this movie. During one of the scenes, there is a promotional poster for John Carpenter's The Thing on the wall. Thinking of classic moments from that better, smarter film is what got me through this one.

To the folks posting 4 star reviews on here and dismissing the lameness as a by-product of the horror genre, allow me to point you towards the above movie as an example of how things are done right.