I saw the Amityville remake last night. I absolutely loved the original even if it didn't age well over time. I think what made the original so good was that the characters who played the leads really looked frightened e.g. James Brolin ,Margot Kidder and Rod Steiger really conveyed fear in their eyes. The newer version stars Ryan Reynolds, who is more renowned for comedy and Melissa George, an Australian actress who started her career in daytime soaps. Philip Baker Hall plays the priest Fr Callaway. It would be unfair to describe the acting as incompetent, it isn't. My main problem is with the plot and the way the film unravels.

The opening sequence shows the massacre of the DeFoe family by Ronnie the son who goes mad. This is quite a creepy sequence and uses similar imagery to the film Se7en. It sets the scene nicely. Then we cut forward to the Lutz family who snap up the property and are told of the house's history. After initial reluctance, they decide to move in and give it a go. Then the weird things start to happen like the apparition to the Lutz daughter of Jody Defoe, the girl who was murdered by her brother a year before. There are one or two jump out of the seat moments after this but I consider the film to be a wasted opportunity overall

The film turns into a budget version of The Shining , concentrating on the declining sanity of George Lutz played by Ryan Reynolds. This insanity builds up until the end of the film where he comes to his senses and the family escape the house. In the original, the insanity of the Lutz father is only one of several episodes to befall the family in the house. Gone is the appearance of the demon pig, the secret room behind the fireplace painted in blood and other such episodes. Most disappointing was the brief appearance of Philip Baker Hall, an actor who is normally excellent at conveying distress (remember him as the dying quiz show host in Magnolia ?).I expected lots more from his appearance in the house than the swarm of flies attacking his face ?

I suppose one of the main problem with the film is it's brevity. It clocks in at under 90 minutes in runtime.

What starts out as a very eerie film ends up another shlock horror zombie film. It could have been so much better really.