The Halloween series was losing it's luster with the release of Halloween 3 which was a terrible mistake. Halloween 4 helped boost the series, but Halloween 5 was too rushed, therefore pushing the series down again.
Halloween 5 picks up immediately where part 4 ended: After desperate attempts to kill his niece, Jaime Lloyd, Haddonfield police opened fire on Myers, sending him flying into an abandoned mind shaft followed by a stick of dynamite. Halloween 5 starts immediately after the explosion. Michael makes his way out of the mind shaft and into a stream barely escaping the explosion.
It is a smooth transition between the two films, but you'll notice a difference in the new mask. The mask Myers dons in this film is completely rediculous and so far from the original that you'll shake your head in shame. Myers continues to float downstream until he ends up at an older man's house, or shack rather, and passes out and is in a coma for a year. The man takes care of him until Halloween arrives. The shape awakens, and disposes of him, and sets out to once again track down his neice, who has been admitted to a children's mental clinic due to the tramas (one of which... losing her voice) she has suffered from Michael.
What I thought was cheesey is how little Jaime all of the sudden aqquired a sixth sense if you will. She can feel Michael Myers and knows his every move and location. This entry in the series also introduces you to a new character. A shadowy man dressed in black, always lurking around whenever Myers causes mayhem. While interesting, you don't really find out who, or what he is until Halloween 6 (The Curse Of Michael Myers).
Another downfall of this film is the terrible characters. While always positive, Loomis returns yet again adding his own atmosphere to the film. The other characters however, are too few, and very one dimensional.
I was really disapointed and bored with this film. The deathcount is really low, and the deaths that are in this film are very non creative. The film, in my opinion, doesn't really start to pick up and build momentum until the last half hour or so of the film, where Loomis and Jaime decide to lore Michael Myers into his house (which is now a mansion. What the hell were they thinking?!) so they can capture/kill him. I thought this sequence was excellent.
This DVD does treat you with some nice special features, which is nice. You'll be treated to some theatrical trailers as well as an inside look at the making of the film.
I wouldn't recommend this installment of the series to newcomers, and alot of Halloween fans will be disapointed.
DVD SCORES
Video - 3/5
Audio 4/5
Special Features - 3/5