Athletes must confront the harsh truth that eventually the body just won't play the game any longer. My dad described the sad sight of broken-down Willie Mays striking out as a New York Met; I'll never forget the sad sight of Michael Jordan, in a Washington Wizards uniform, getting blocked.
And now there's Wes Craven's "Scream 4," an unnecessary, tired sequel that brings to mind Yogurt's line from "Spaceballs," "God willing, we'll all meet again in Spaceballs 2: The Search for More Money."

The pointlessness of the enterprise shows up in the very first scene, a movie-within-a-movie-within-a-movie that proves the inherent stupidity of horror movie franchises that won't go out to pasture. We're once again in Woodsboro, the fictional town where it all began. Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) has finally cashed in on her fame by writing a self-help book, although Saint Sidney appears to believe the lie that her book is really about helping other people rather than royalties. Not coincidentally, Ghostface is also back, terrorizing Woodsboro with the trademark hunter's knife and cellphone.
Sheriff Dewey (David Arquette) and wife/frustrated author Gale (Courteney Cox) reprise their earlier roles -- she's an ambitious witch, and he's a kind-hearted bumbler -- but sadly there is nothing left in these characters for us to care about. Ask yourself, were there any Sidney Prescott questions left unanswered?

We meet the next generation of Woodsboro teens, and they're pretty much Version 4.0 of the same group we've seen before (Now With Added Snark!). The next-gen Sidney is Jill (Emma Roberts), Sidney's cousin, and she's surrounded by the Frustrated Love Interest, the Gorgeous BFF (Hayden Panettiere), the Film Geek, and so on, most of whom only exist to be sliced and diced. Everyone is hyper-aware of the fact that they are in a "reboot" of the original movie, yet they continue to make all the same dumb mistakes. Indeed, the self-awareness in Scream 4 is so wearisome I half-expected the cast of Mystery Science Theater 3000 to pop up to provide in-movie commentary.

Despite all these flaws, I would have liked "Scream 4" had it been genuinely scary. But despite a high body count and lots of blood, the scares are minor league because Ghostface does not do anything new. He calls people. He chases them. He stabs them. Yawn.

DVD extras include some extended and deleted scenes of little interest, a commentary track, a decent gag reel, and a making-of featurette.  Review originally published on MyDVDInsider.com