This is just another crap movie by poor hollywood directors who create a so called movie about a war that their know nothing about or all they know is what been shown on political (white house controlled) tv stations like almighty CNN and BBC.
Joseph Goebbels of Hitler's Germany looks like an amature when it comes to CNN and BBC and.
Unfotunatelly most of regular americans are so dumb that they belive anything they see on TV and accept as the only "truth" not taking the view from the "accused" side.

Well, let me tell you that I spent 4 years of war in Bosnia and I have seen atrocities from all sides involved in that war. I have seen Serbian women and children killed and raped by muslims. 10,000 Serbs are either killed or missing in Sarajevo alone but no Western Media will show that.
Well this so called movie does not tell that story becuase Serbs are labeled in the muslim and Western media as the aggressors of their own land Bosnia where they lived for centuries, and are labeled as the only killers in that war.  Muslims, who are actually America's biggest enemy (not to mention that Osama Bin Laden was at the Sarajevo Airport in 2002)are shown as innocent victims in this movie.
You may ask why is this so that only Serbs are shown as the bad guys. Well the answer is simple. America is the strongest nation in the world and they decide who is the bad guy and who is the good guy. But why Serbs? Why Serbs who have always been America's allied in both WW1 and WW2 while muslims and Croats were collaborating with Germany and Hitler. Well bosnian muslims (former Serbs, that converted to islam during Ottoman Empire) are strongly supported by rich Middle Eastern Islamic Fundamentalist such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, UAE and so on. THeir goal is to create an Islamic country in Europe and then spread further. Unfortunatelly America does not have friends or enemies. It only has interests. And their interest is cheaper oil reserves from Islamic countries and in return it has to protect muslims in Bosnia.
I am not saying that Serbs did not do any crimes but so did the muslims and the croats but you will never see such a Movie in Hollywood!