Although My Fair Lady continues to please people, it does not please me at all.  I must say that I am in the minority.  I saw the film when it first came out, and just a few days ago screened it again.

I want to make it very clear that I love cinema and that I love film musicals.  I say this because I want to assure readers concerning my devotion to the film musical form.  My criticism is that My Fair Lady as a film just doesn't live up to what it could have been.  To me, it is a tragedy that so many lives and dollars were expended to make a film that seems to lacks enthusiasm, warmth, and musicianship.

I find the film version gorgeous to look-at, but that is about all.  The performances and the music interpretation I find to be lacking, even to the instrumentation.  The whole film seems like it is being played as if fulfilling a formula.  Even Rex Harrison seems rather uninterested at times.

And, I will honestly say, that despite all the beautiful costumes and the spectacle, most of the film dramatically is just plain boring.  For someone like myself who loves art films that can move very slowly, this is quite an indicator of how My Fair Lady tragically doesn't inspire or move me.

Last, not using Julie Andrews (who originated the Eliza role on Broadway) was criminal and was quite a scandal at the time of the film's being made.  Only Ms. Andrews could have brought some life to the Eliza role.  While Audrey Hepburn was a great actress, she was not so in this film -- her performance lacks.

Despite the tremendous propaganda from Warner Brothers at the time the film was being made, the product of all that effort falls tremendously flat.  I would suggest that instead of buying or renting the movie, customers should listen to the original cast recording of the original Broadway production.  The singing, the instrumentation, and the artistry are infinitely superior to what is shown in the film.

Julie Andrews has proven her tremendous talent and devotion to her musical and acting craft over the years.  I believe that she should receive Special Recognition from the film community.

An apology from Warner Brothers would also be good for the studio.  WB made a tremendous mistake both artistically and politically in not choosing Julie Andrews.  It is time that WB faces its cruelty to Ms. Andrews, its disrespect for moviegoers, and makes amends to Ms. Andrews as well as to us.
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000067AS1">My Fair Lady (1956 Original Broadway Cast)</a>