If you're looking at this, then you probably already have the first two seasons and you know (more or less) what to expect by now. That said, this is probably my favorite season of the entire 4.

  The writing improves a bit this season, along with what would be called the "cinematography" if this were...you know....not animated. And that's saying a lot because the first two seasons were already pretty awesome. There are many memorable episodes that were a joy to watch. Most notably "Jack vs. The rave" and the season finale where you see the birth of Aku. I had a lot of fun watching these discs, and I'm a fully grown adult. This was one of the better shows on television at the time, animated or otherwise. Good fun for the kids, but still enjoyable by adults. Particularly adults who are fans of Akira Kurasawa, or Toshiro Mifune and other samurai flicks.

  A word of note: I WOULD recommend this to parents, albeit with some discretion. It can be a tad violent, so do keep that in mind if you're buying this to entertain the lil ones. I know that here in America,  we tend to flip out more over sex than violence for whatever reason. You can relax there if that sort of thing bothers you. You won't hear any profanity or see so much as a nipple. But if you're actually well adjusted and have more of a problem with your child seeing violent images than half of Janet Jacksons boobs, you may wish to view this along side your child. Might help put things in context for them, know what i'm sayin? For what it's worth, there are FAR worse things out there, and most of Jack's opponents are robots of some sort. So Jack never fights a "living" being, if you will. If they can handle "Star Wars" then they should be fine watching Samurai Jack. (Which, incidentally is FULL of Star Wars references.)

Fun Fact:

  This same writing/animation team would later go on to make the animated "Clone Wars" series. Not the computer animated one, the regular animated one. The actually GOOD one. Yeah, it seems that Ol' George Lucas was rather heavily influenced by the films of Kurasawa. It stands to reason that he would chose this team to produce The Clone Wars: animated series. From a black and white Samurai flick influencing Star Wars....which was the inspiration for much of Samurai Jack...which in turn inspired Lucas to create The Clone Wars. Seems the world keeps moving in circles. Funny old life, innit?

  At the end of the day, I chose to give this DVD 4 stars. It isn't flawless, by any stretch of the imagination, but it's great fun and can usually be found here for a pretty good price.

  If you own seasons one and two, do yourself a favor and pick up three and four, especially if you've found a good deal. You can thank me later.