I just watch Traffic, and I have to say it is nothing like the reviews had to say about it being a Masterpiece, Just as big as the God Father Epic, A Flat-out Electrifying Experience, Scenes play like tubo-charged versions of real life, and blah blah blah!!! 
I did not like the movie, because they did a very bad job of story telling! I could not get into, or feel for any of the characters in this story. There was a lot at stake for the characters in Traffic, but they did not give you a performance that there was anything at stake at all. 
I will touch, on my other reasons why I did not like this movie by naming the four Academy Awards that they got this year. 
Best Director: how did Steven Soderbergh get this award? Did the people really watch the movie. I still believe it should have gone to Ang Lee, or even Ridley Scott, because they did tell a better story that had better direction than Traffic. Sure, Traffic has direction, tries to sound smart, but I believe it failed doing so. How did if fail? I believed it failed by doing too much, trying to tell too many stories, and pulling them all together into one in the end. I am sure if they worked on it a little longer, they could tell a better story. 
Best Adapted Screenplay: Give me a break, and send me to the moon!!! Once again, they could have told a better story, if they seem took their time to write it out. I was reading the information inside the DVD cover, and it look like they did work on it for some time, but there was something missing in it. So, I have to go back to the performances again. The performances did not seem real to me, it was like yeah whatever, just get off my case!! 
In addition, they got the idea from a TV miniseries called "Traffik" in the early 80's. For some reason this does not set well for me, it just seems to me not too much work is happening here. Because that is one of the first things we do in writing class, is taking stories and rewrite them, its not that hard of an task to do...
Best Supporting Actor: I felt nothing from Benicio Del Toro, in his role as a Mexican Cop. There was one time in the movie that I did felt something from him, and that is in the end. I have to say that was the best part, because the ending was very moving. His performance as a whole was so so to not much. I thought Joaqun Phoenix played a stronger roll and should of got Best Supporting Actor! 
Best Film Editing: YAK!!! and i YAK AGAIN!!!! I have not seen soooooo many bad editing job in my life, it made movies like The Blair Witch Project, and Plan 9 From Outer Space look great! There was not much to any action in this movie to make people look good at in what they are doing. Therefore, they shot one or two bullets, and blow up a car big whip/tea doooo. I mean if they are going to give out this award for film editing, give it to somebody that Had to do Hard Work to make things look real and believable...
So, I ask what was the big haa/doo with Traffic? The only thing I can think of, it was really a pro drug story more than an anti drug story. No one is clean, so don't judge me. Is what I got from this story. 
I watch it twice trying to find the magic behind this movie, and I could not. 
I did not care about how it was filmed using a dirty black and white in Mexico, and using clear clean Color in the USA. I was amazed; however, to see that the characters did change colors when they went from Mexico to the US, talking about not staying in character. LOL!! 
I believe what would have made the movie better, is by doing less with it.  I believe they would have had a great story by keeping it in Mexico, I think that was there strong suit in the movie. 
If anything this was Soderbergh Pulp Fiction! and for that I give him one star for his effort...