If you're interested in learning about Veronica Franco, through her own words, I would heartily recommend her Poems and Selected Letters, edited by Ann Rosalind Jones and Margaret F. Rosenthal (ISBN 0226259862, 0226259870).  Fascinating and insightfully translated; you can hear her true "voice" echoing through the ages, even in another language than her own.
If, rather, you're interested in a male-bashing piece of melodramatic tripe posing as an amateurish, hackneyed costume drama, I recommend this movie.
There can be no doubt that the historical reality of 16th-century Venice was both sensuous and grim.  A rigid, patriarchal society, ruled by only wealth and the cold needs of mercantile exploitation, the city loomed as a sober monument to human nature, against which the people's complex needs and emotions were played out like radiant colors on a black canvas.  But this does not mean that all the souls who lived and breathed there were either Monsters (male) or Faeries (female).
This movie is all about catering to the lowest common denominator of the female escapist fantasy.  The women are well-defined, cultured, and intricate, albeit poorly acted; the men are flimsy caricatures propped up only by their universal nastiness, selfishness, and lust.  The villains, the heroes - if they're men, they're brutish, ugly in spirit, and mindlessly obsessed with sex to the exclusion of all else.  In the women, these traits are seen as strength, vivacity, daring, and commendable cunning; in the men, these traits are seen as unforgivable, unavoidable manifestations of their uncontrolled inner spirit.  Women who are prostitutes are self-empowered; men who want women who are prostitutes are either vile or ignorant.  Are you sensing a theme here?
Ah well... as a movie, I suppose this is adequate entertainment... turn the sound down, and it's pretty to look at, although somewhat blurry, with a distractingly bland camera strategy, and a disjointed plot, filled to the brim with enough "political corrections" to make a militant feminist blush scarlet.
For those seeking a pretty, pandering, mindless sycophant of a film, I give this five stars.  For a much better movie that intentionally twists history into a clever and deceptive entertainment, see Shakespeare in Love.