Noam Chomsky is great. Not since John Dewey have I read someone so passionate about holistic scholarship in the humanities.Still, there are a lot of facts that need to be brought up to date with these tapes. Just to  name a few - more advances have been made in the area of animal cognition  than what was shown. Also, media conglomerates are of course much larger  than what was presented. Other excerpts were also incorrect since they were  from the 1960's, 70's, etc...the facts were just out of date and have been  proven false with new research.And not to nitpick but the East Timor case  is old and it only makes a skeptic wonder if any of it has any validity -  pick up the New York Times and it's really easy to read about what's going  on now of days. Also, take the WTO incident - that, for the most part was  covered objectively and just about all sides were heard. There seems to be  more of this kind of objective style prevailing in the 90's and a promise  of it for the future.My last criticism is that, personally, I was left with  the impression that he's coming across with a conspiracy theory. He says in  the tape and in his writings that of course he isn't - but I'm just saying  that he really gives off the impression. The majority of American media is  of course regulated by market forces since no one particular individual or  group is in control. The main focus of the media conglomerates, as with any  corporation, is to make profit for the management and for the shareholders.  The whole idea of these corporations manipulating the masses just like  elite groups in the past would also manipulate is a somewhat paranoid. I'd  suggest reading an old classic by Herbert Marcuse if you get a chance,  "One-Dimensional Society." It'll show how decisions in an  industrial society aren't just made by individuals but made because of the  design of the system we create itself (i.e., a market system, etc.). On the  positive side, the tapes are ingeniously presented and it's a great summary  of Noam and his work. If you're a fan, you'll love these tapes!