I am a 56-year-old movie buff and right off let me confess, I love this movie.

In my opinion this movie was never intended to be taken seriously at all.  Consider that in the first exposition scenes you have not one, but 2 entirely different characters in different scenes say directly to the narrator in the middle of his attempted explanation of this nonsensical tale "what are you talking about?" I don't believe this was accidental folks, this is called comedy.

One thing to be aware of when you're watching this movie is that the director is the most popular comedian in the entire country of Korea. He gained his fame and fortune as comedic actor. In other words his entire professional career has been based on making people laugh.

I think most people who are reviewing this movie are completely missing the comedy.  Frankly I found the movie to be hilarious.

How anyone could possibly take this movie seriously after seeing the Darth Vader character stupidly get run over by a car 2 times in a row is beyond me. That was obviously comedy (and very funny).

Yes it is entirely overblown.  Layers of complete absurdity are piled with additional layers of even more absurdity. Which makes it a perfect satire of the Star Wars, Lord of the rings, Harry Potter and all of the rest of the overly pompous mega-movies.  If there is a big overblown scene in one of those movies you're going to see a similar scene in this one.

A few examples.  The Gungan Army scene from Star Wars episode 4 -- only this time the Army with the cute, smiling dinosaur critters with the weapons on their backs are the bad guys.  And these smiling dinosaurs are wreaking total havoc on Los Angeles fighting the LAPD. The incongruity of the destruction and the cute smiley dinosaurs is absolutely hilarious.

Remember the giant explosion scene in Independence Day with the flames and flying cars rushing up the street? It's here, but with a very funny twist.  In this movie the same thing is done by a giant snake rushing up the street.  The exorcism scene in the Exorcist?  Yep, it's here too, tossed in like the kitchen sink, completely unconnected to any plot points.

Giant marching Imperial Army and Ninjas?  Sure enough.  Darth Vader character with a ridiculously laughable sinister voice?  Of course. Rampaging Jurassic Park dinosaurs?  You got it.  Dogfights straight out of Independence Day?  It's here too.

Savor the site of Ray Harryhausen look-alike creatures doing massive destruction that Ray most certainly dreamed of, but couldn't accomplish with the technology of his day. I can tell you that he is smiling in his grave cause this movie delivers a wonderful tribute to his work.

Let me name a few more of the movies that have tributes here.  Pitch Black, King Kong, Seventh Voyage of Sinbad, Men in Black, Dragonheart, Ghostbusters, Godzilla, Ninja Mutant Turtles, the Host, The Thing, Rodan and even Monty Python and the holy Grail. It doesn't stop there, look carefully and you'll see many many more.

Does the acting suck?  Absolutely. Is the story completely incomprehensible?  It most certainly is.  Is it even more ridiculous than Star Wars, Lord of the rings or dozens of others.  Yes it is, and I believe that was exactly the point.

I predict this movie will be watched at midnight showings at colleges 10 years from now with folks rolling in the aisles.

I have seen lots of Hollywood studio comedies recently and have not laughed nearly as hard as I did watching Dragon wars.  I literally had tears streaming from my eyes many times because I couldn't stop laughing.

So give yourself a break from any pretensions of seriousness, have a glass of wine and have a fun time watching and laughing at the funniest, most ridiculous spectacular eye candy CGI movie ever.