I watched this movie very reluctantly, as I usually do not like horror-remakes. The form has become incredibly trendy, and the remakes rarely hold a candle to the originals. However, I was pleasantly surprised by the remake of "I Spit On Your Grave".
  First of all, as the viewer, you need to know what you are getting into here when you are watching this film. If you aren't familiar with the original 1978 film, it was an absolutely brutal exploration of rape and revenge. The remake actually stays fairly close to the original, except the remake was filmed 32 years later, which means that the violence and the sexual assaults have been elevated to an absolutely extreme level. As far as I'm concerned, AWESOME! Yet, I know that lots of people are going to call this film "trash" or "porn" simply because it deals with the topic of brutal rape. There are plenty of ghastly and grisly images in modern horror films, yet everyone seems to think that rape is absolutely the most offensive and the worst violence you can commit to film. To me, it's not much different from the type of violence you would find in films like "Saw" (series), "Hostel" (series), "Martyrs", "Frontier(s)" "Inside" or "The Human Centipede". But, I know some people just can't handle something about rape scenes. If you are one of these people, you need to search elsewhere for entertainment. Even though the sexual assault scenes really don't take up that much screen time, they are pretty degrading and nasty (nothing like you'd see in "Irreversible", but this film's sexual assaults can keep up with about any other rape you've ever seen on film). DO YOU THINK I'M SICK YET?? Hahaha, ok, maybe you have a point. However, I'm not especially thrilled watching rape scenes in horror. To me, it's not very creative, although it has an incredible power to shock people. Yet, I was actually way more uncomfortable watching the rest of the violence in the film. I'm trying not to write any spoilers, but let's just say there are some "traps" that the "Saw" franchise would be jealous of. Absolutely vicious. This was the most satisfying element of the film for me. If you like your horror tough and brutal, you very well may like this film.
  You must remember a few other things going into this film. This is not the kind of film that's going to get critical praise. The plot is virtually non-existent. Or at least, it's very, very simple. I didn't find this to be a huge problem, because the sequence of events in the film form the story. The dialogue is INCREDIBLY cheesy, to the point of making your skin crawl as much as the violence in the film. Also, the acting is somewhat sub-par (with the exception of Sarah Butler's performance in the lead role). It's the only element of the film that doesn't seem real, which I think detracts from the overall value of a serious horror film. There's also a loose end that isn't tied up at the end of the film, which left me scratching my head wondering why they didn't address what happened to this particular character. These problems are very common in horror films (as most people know), so if you know what you're about to watch and you allow yourself to be entertained, these little problems don't seriously detract from the overall experience of the film. These few negative elements led me to give this film 3.5 stars instead of 4.5, which it would have earned simply for the level of violence and intensity. Overall, as far as horror-remakes go, this one is one the better ones, IMO. I probably still like the original better, due to the novelty of 70's horror films, but I'd actually say it's a fairly close race, and I never say that about these remakes. If you are a fan of this type of cinema, I'd say it's definitely worth a view. 3.5 stars.