The movie Billy Jack was a film industry phenomenon when it was first released. It still retains just as much a powerful psychological and emotional impact today. It is a "hippie western" that preaches the message of peace, love and individualism. Unfortunately this philosophy can be greatly thwarted by bigotedly intolerant, narrow-minded and arrogant people in a very small town.
  The "Freedom School" contains many minorities of people: American Indians, long-haired hippies, blacks, socially and emotionally dysfunctional youths, etc. The "redneck" townspeople in this very small southwestern town verbally harass, physically abuse and mentally torture these youths with illegally discriminating behavior.
  The half-breed Indian Billy Jack defends these defenseless people by utilizing his wonderful martial arts skills. Billy Jack wreaks righteous revenge on the perpetrators of these injustices. A message that this fantastic and always timely film evokes is this: that the wrongdoing of warped bigotry, devastatingly horrible slander, etc. is not always cured by "turning the other cheek". Sometimes malevolent force has to be destroyed by benevolent force.
  The movie Billy Jack has attained a mythic cult classic status. When you consider the very limited budget this movie was created with and the very powerful impact it has had since its first release I would have to rate this film as one of the greatest movies of all time.  Its message: " that the majority over the minority and might makes right " can be toppled and corrected by righteous revenge defending the meek is just as vital today as it was thousands of years ago. "The meek shall inherit the earth". The half-breed Indian Billy Jack assisted the meek and weak  to inherit their rightful part of the earth in that very small redneck town.
  There have been some social instances similar to this social scenario  in the movie Billy Jack that have occurred in reality. I can empathize with this movie because I have witnessed a similar situation in my hometown.