After hearing good things about this movie from friends for years, I finally decided to pick it up when I saw it on sale at a Wal-mart.  I sat down with a lot of expectations.  Sadly, the movie did not reach the level that I had expected.
I have followed Carpenter's movies from the heyday of his horror flicks (Halloween, The Fog), through his middle horror period (The Thing, Prince of Darkness), to his current work (this movie, Ghosts of Mars).  I am puzzled how his current efforts can be so sub-par...  
Vampires is Carpenter's interpretation of "modern" vampires, as opposed to more "gothic" representations, and is therefore built around violence and gore.  The protagonist, played over-the-top by James Woods, is the typical total bad-*ss jerk, who is presumably so tough that he doesn't need the body armor his team does to fight vampires.  In scenes reminiscent of movies like the Stallone film Cobra, we are shown how "bad", how "macho", and how "tough" he is, the overall effect of which was to make me hope that he gets killed off by the end of the movie...  (Sadly, that didn't happen).  The antagonist, played by Karate Kid villain Thomas Ian Griffith, seems more human and likable than Wood's character.  The story is the usual "we must kill the Head Vampire" plot, and the action scenes are violent and gruesome.
While it is refreshing to see more "modern" vampires in this film, there is little to recommend this over other films such as From Dusk til Dawn or the Blade series.  I was extremely disappointed to see most of the film's horror sequences to be action fight sequences, instead of Carpenter's more classic terror in isolation scenes.  It seems he wants to move away from his horror roots into more action movies, but is not finding the right mix in this effort (or in his last film Ghosts of Mars), and the end result is a spotty mix of action and horror sequences.
Cheesy acting by the other stars (including a Baldwin brother), and no sense of real horror is another takeaway in this movie.
Overall, a decent movie for an evening's diversion, but not high in replay value.  3 out of 5.