I pride myself on not crying at movies...I usually inwardly console myself, saying that it is 'just a movie' that didn't really happen. This movie left me with no such comfort. I read the Diary about two years ago, and it made me think about how this girl changed the world...and how similar she was to many people I know now. A normal teenager. I thought I would watch this movie when it was on TV, because the book was so spectacular. When I started watching, I got caught up in it, as though I was watching this wonderful documentary. I kept hoping that it wasn't true...that they would change the ending. At 9 o clock the next night, I was a totally different person. I saw the brutality and cruelty inflicted on this smart, kind, and powerful girl. She had mature thoughts which she wrote in her diary about love, life and the world around her. She was treated as an object instead of a person. Taken away from everything which she cared about...especially her father. And she died, 2 weeks before her camp was freed. And as I sat there, watching Ben Kingsley (the only actor who surpassed the power of the actress playing Anne) walk down the streets of Amsterdam after the war, the same street I had seen the night before. Anne was sauntering down the lovely walk way. The streets she peeked at through the window in the secret attic. I started to cry. I couldn't help it. It was just such an injustice that this person had to face this. He was so kind...such a good father and strong of character. Kingsley's powerful eyes made mine cringe with an odd pain. It was so hard to sit through this film of awesome standards. It took you to the places after the diary ends...to the places that we have before only imagined before shutting our eyes and telling ourselves that it wasn't like that. It showed the brutality that we couldn't of imagined. The symbolism was powerful..the reality painful. How could someone inflict such pain on others. Strip them of dignity and kill them? Innocent children, women and men. Take a whole community and lower the population of them by the millions. Ben Kingsley, a normally stunning actor was stunning and ominous all at the same time...such a gentle creature of a character he played that it was so obvious the pain he would have to accept.
This movie takes the startlingly poetic diary of a girl, and turns it into a startling portrail of hatred. When someone who doesn't like to cry out of pride, is brought down to sobs...you have something incredibly powerful.