I love Hayao Miyazaki's films, and up until now I've sung the praises of Disney's releases of said films, but this release is a bit of a stumble.

Firstly: the film. Among Miyazaki's canon Castle in the Sky stands as a more traditional 'boys adventure' (think the same genre as something like Treasure Island). This isn't a complaint, far from it, his riff on this slightly more conventional genre is excellent, a wonderful fantasy world inhabited by a bunch of likeable protagonists and the slimy machinations of one of Miyazaki's few clear-cut villains. This film contains some of the Miyazaki's greatest visuals, the most iconic being his wonderful, retro-designed robots.

This picture quality in this HD release is excellent. It's great to see such beautiful film in the best possible visual presentation. There are some behind the scenes bits that were very welcome, giving some context behind the film.

But there is a fatal flaw in this release: the English subtitles. If you intend to watch the film in Japanese with a straightforward translation of the dialog via subtitles then you'll want to keep your 2003 DVD release. This version uses 'dubtitles,' meaning, they're just a transcript of the English dubbed version. Even that wouldn't be much of a problem for other Disney/Miyazaki releases, as they typical hew very close to the Japanese originals and are well written and acted - I even prefer the English dub of Howl's Moving Castle to the Japanese (and that's pretty big praise from a traditionalist like me!). The bad news is that Castle in the Sky features the weakest Americanization by Disney, with a script that seems simplified for kiddies and adds a lot of goofy humor that's rather jarring. Then there's the fact that there are masked characters in the film who are speaking at different moments in the American and Japanese versions (since there's no need to lip-synch), so for someone wanting to watch in the original Japanese the subtitles aren't just very inaccurate, but often seem drastically out-of-synch!

Hopefully Disney fixes this problem in a further edition. I would gladly re-buy.