I am a die-hard Halloween fan, but not a die-hard fan of the franchise.  As far as I'm concerned Halloween does not need any sequels and I can do just fine without them, but Halloween II unravels the mystery posed in Halloween (though John Caprenter never originally intended any sequels or plot twists), and Halloween H20 throws in a nice alternative ending to the one we were offered in Halloween II with the supposed demise of Dr. Sam Loomis and Michael Audrey Myers (the Shape).

But H20 has some annoying flaws:
1.  The sound track is awful; it completely lacks "atmosphere" and is a mix of Psycho, Halloween and Scream, and an odd assortment of orchestral noises and Rock/Hip-Hop that do not mesh well together.  Halloween 1-4 all had excellent soundtracks though Halloween III was more "synthetic" than any of them.
2.  Unlike Halloween and Halloween II Michael Myers needlessly murders a few people, most of them in the opening sequence.  If you recall the first two films, he killed out of necessity; to eliminate obstacles or to create lures (except in the case of the one girl he killed at the beginning of Halloween II.  He must have been just a little irritated for having been shot by Dr. Loomis).  But as with every Myers sequel since then he just sort of kills for the sake of killing.
3.  The opening scenes had all of the look and feel of the original Halloween, especially with the opening theme of Mr. Sandman.  It was saturated with "atmosphere."  Unfortunatley it faded quickly and never returned as the story shifts from Illinois to California.  Halloween and all the other sequels made much better use of shadows and lighting than this one, probably because of light filters or the lack of.  Halloween had a lot of blue effect and made use of a dimmer switch in the scene where Michael seems to materialize out of the darkness behind Laurie.  The same dimmer switch lighting technique was used in Halloween II when Michael faded in out of nowhere and grabbed Janet.  H20 did not make the best possible use of "atmosphere" though it was an admirable attempt.
4.  There were a few annoying plot holes.  Where has Michael been all these years?  How did he drive from Illinois to California in a day and a half--with a stolen car--without drawing the attention of every law enforcement agency in the region?  A photo and newspaper clipping about Laurie's daughter, Jamie, is on Dr. Loomis' wall at the beginning of the movie but no mention is made of her in the story.  What happened to that family history?  It does not line up with the previous three sequels although it does not entirely ignore them either.
5.  There is too much graphic violence of a silly nature (like an ice skate through the head and the girl who is strung up from the ceiling with a light bulb in her carcass).
6.  Michael Myers was not quite so menacing as in the first two movies.  Part of the problem is that the mask lacks character.  The features are much more "pale" and muted, more like Star Trek's Commander Data than William Shatner.  The wild hair didn't help either.  Also we see Michael's eyes all the time; a minor but important detail.  His eyes were rarely seen in Halloween and Halloween II, thus adding immensely to the concept of personified evil.  Michael's breathing cannot be heard and he does not make the obscure grunting noises he made in Halloween when he was struggling to kill someone.  Halloween II lacked this small but important detail as well.  Although I did not expect a repeat of the first two films, I do think a lot of the details that helped make the first film a huge success and the second one stand up fairly well are consistently overlooked in the other installments of this series.

Here are some of the high points of H20:
1.  We revisit an old character, Nurse Marion, who was in Halloween (the rainy station wagon ride with Dr. Sam Loomis) and also in Halloween II (the ride in the Federal Marshall's car).
2.  The writers put a lot more effort into making a serious horror film.  The filmography is outstanding and the acting is top notch; true cinema, not a cheap cheesy horror rip-off.
3.  Jamie Lee Curtis is the central character once again, and this time she faces Michael head-on and on purpose.

H20 is certainly worth owning and a worthy addition to the Halloween series.  It is the closest return attempt to the original plot and seriousness since Halloween II.  It just lacks the element of creepiness that the old team of Carpenter, Hill, and Cundey were able to create, primarily because the original team had real eyes and ears for effective detail.  The latter teams have just written and filmed stories with very little regard to what puts the creepy in Halloween.

The H20 disk is certainly a fine quality product.  The imagery is sharp, the sound is crystal clear, and the interview with Jamie Lee Curtis, Moustapha Akkaad, and John Carpenter is entertaining enough though not really anything new informationally.  Take H20 or leave it...it really does not matter though it is a fine film.

My actual rating of H20 would be 3 1/2 stars.  Halloween II was much better and offered a completely acceptable end to the series.