I am writing this review to counteract all the undeserved 1 STAR reviews. Attention westerners, this is not a martial art movie. This is not your usual anime movie. This not an action thriller. This movie does not have a strong plot.  This is an arty fantasy movie that Japanophiles will mostly adore. If Asian art and culture is not your bag then don't watch this movie. You won't like it and neither did the other adult reviewers under 1 star.  I've shown this movie to all my 100% caucasian nieces and nephews none from families with any Asian influence, who were alot more tolerant than the adult reviewers of this film. None of the kids hated it or were frightened by it. I have an 8 year old Italian american niece who puts this movie on every time she comes to visit.  Puzzled, I asked her why she likes it so much. She can't tell me why. She'll demand to see the "dragon spirit" movie over and over again. Shrek would be her next choice.  I've shown the kids films from around the world to open their eyes to other cultures. You don't know what will resonante with one child and not with the rest so why censor for them? Granted the plot is weak but the animation is so beautiful and it's such a creative film.  Disney used to do this kind of artistry before commercialism reigned supreme at the Mouse, although the recent Princess and the Frog was a very nice artistic effort for Disney.  I think this is Miyasaki's best work.  A westerner, I love Japan and I love woodblock prints.  The animation in this movie reminds me of the prints of the great Japanese woodblock artists whose work inspired Western Impressionism. This movie is unique. Nothing else in the world is like this movie. Too much of Miyasaki's artistry went into producing westernized films, probably to attract the western market.  I love Howl's Moving Castle but this, to me, is his masterpiece. If you don't like fantasy, Japan, Asian art or culture, then you will not be a fan of this movie. Those who find this creepy compared to Harry Potter movies really need to do a reality check. Human beings die in Harry Potter films. Creatures were eaten in this movie then vomited back up alive. Sadly you will find too much of the black occult in all movies nowadays but far more of the negative occult in the Harry Potter films which have turned really dark compared to this little gem. (Not to knock HP, I am also a Harry Potter fan.)