Created at the dawn of the Reagan era, it took a lot of guts on Warren Beatty's part to put out this rather favorable view of American socialist-turned-communist John Reed.  
But while the viewer will learn of some of the more unsavory aspects of life in the land of the free (such as Woodrow Wilson's Palmer raids in suppression of free speech, and the real reason our pompous messianic leader led us into the First World War), the film is not a hymn of praise to Communism.  It is instead a portrait of lives lived to the full -- maybe not, to be sure, the way we would choose to live our lives; but it certainly depicts lives lived beyond the category of drones in what is supposed to pass for democracy in America.
As Reed, Beatty infuses his character with an energy and dynamism that probably exceed the original template.  And to the character of the "Queen of Bohemia," Louise Bryant, Diane Keaton brings a luminous beauty that grows along with her character.  Jack Nicholson is wonderful as the jaded Eugene O'Neill, and a host of other actors make this film one of the most richly cast films of the era.
Communism is dead now, and as for socialism, any glance at a public restroom will demonstrate the regard that people have for property not their own.  Part of the appeal of this film, as with the ideologies it depicts, lies in the romantic myth spawned by Rousseau that, once liberated of the shackles of civilization, humanity will be reborn and therefore truly free.  As to whether that same humanity will be happy is quite another question, and one which the film implicitly answers in the negative.  For those interested in where the most noble parts of these ideas may lead a truly honest person, I suggest that you purchase a film called "Entertaining Angels."  It is about a woman who knew some of the people depicted in "Reds" and shared many of their ideas to her dying day, Dorothy Day, the co-founder of the Catholic Worker movement.  She may one day become a canonized saint.  She is already an inspiration to many, and her ideas are far from the dustbin of history.