The day after this film won the 1961 Palme d'Or at Cannes, the reaction of the Catholic church prompted Franco's Spain to ban it and burn most copies and all outtakes.  Just prior to its release though, Bu&ntilde;uel scandalized his republican friends by returning to the country ruled by the fascist Generalissimo, to work on Viridiana.

The film is as full of its own paradoxes, so it casts only a splintered light on Viridiana to see it as an anti-Franco tract, through the prism of the director's atheism, or, for that matter, in terms of struggles between rich and destitute, simple and sophisticated, backward vs. modern, etc.  Bu&ntilde;uel is not a straightforward leftie, an outright atheist, or a simple anything.

[If you haven't seen the movie yet, you might want to skip the next 3 `spoiler' paragraphs]
Viridiana dislikes Don Jorge, her uncle by marriage: she disapproves of his past and spurns his unexpected proposal.  When he relates his great tragedy - his wife's death just after their marriage - she is unsympathetic, even brutal.  Yet he (Fernando Rey, The French Connection, Belle de Jour) is in fact starved for love, which takes him to the verge of a desperate act.  Thinking he has drugged and raped her, Viridiana abandons her wish to become a nun.  His suicide does not visibly soften her, although she asks a band of paupers and mentally-unhinged outcasts to join her in restoring the finca she inherits, which has lain fallow for too long.  Her invitation is presumably meant to atone, although it is not clear if it's for her uncle's sin of suicide or for her part in prompting it.

This attempt to lift the poor through their work requires a discipline they don't want, yet her request that each contribute "according to their abilities" expresses a naive socialism that backfires on her.  For all her vagabond guests' down-to-earth joy and exuberance, they are depicted as petty and prone to malice.  They see her as a saint (and she does not mind), but they betray her noble intentions, showing her faith to be disengaged and empty.

The tensions that afflict Don Jorge make him one of the richest characters ever put to screen, undercutting any view of him as merely a randy lecher or some symbol of a corrupt ancien r&eacute;gime.  Jorge, his philandering, illegitimate son (Paco Rabal), believes the estate he inherited with Viridiana can be restored through hard work - while she and the paupers pray in the fields and work like dilettantes.  Like his uncle, Jorge is kind but practical, even wily, and this saves her from rape.  In the end, she comes around to his earthy ways, with a heavy heart.

This Criterion DVD includes a restored version and interviews with the leading lady (Silvia Pinal) and Bu&ntilde;uel, who got top-rate performances from everyone, including mentally-challenged vagrants he recruited off the street - who, in fact, very nearly steal the show.  This may be Bu&ntilde;uel's least surreal movie, and it is far richer than I've related: there is outstanding, eerily moody cinematography; various allusions to Poe, the spiritual mentor of Surrealism; melodrama leavened with subtle humour (the uncle cross-dressing, the vagabonds who inherit the earth, various double-edged religious symbols, including a mock Last Supper); and much more besides.  Even the music plays a central part: Don Jorge takes solemn delight in Handel and Mozart, to which the revelling vagrants jig; he also plays the organ, dreadfully yet lovingly; later on, the radio plays a vacuous pop song while nobody listens - suggesting that something has been lost, after all, as well as gained.

An intriguing film that's aged very well, providing an excellent introduction to one of the great directors.