When Blue Oyster Cult emerged in the early 70's, they posted ads promising 'Music of the Spheres'.  The implication was that they had a sound unlike any you had ever heard.  The music was heavy and the lyrics were cryptic.  Songs that traversed the ocean deeps and the outskirts of space, songs about life but especially about death.  And their public image was unique as well.  Leather, lasers, logo.  Yes, these guys were definitely different.  But man, could they play.
Now thirty years after the first album was released, the public can finally own a good video record of a BOC concert.  It shows that they are still a bit different, and they can still really play.
Taking nothing away from Eric Bloom or Allen Lanier, who are both greats in their own right and integral to BOC's success, there is little doubt that the heart and soul of the band is Buck Dharma.  At fifty-whatever he can still play heavy guitar like few if any ever have.  His fingers fly up and down the fretboard with seeming ease.  He's got all the hard rock chops you could possibly ask for, but with such a clean, fluid sound that he sometimes seems to be off in some transcendental  metal-jazz zone of his own creation.  Quality and quantity.  And all the while maintaining a grin that tells you he's enjoying himself at least as much as the audience.  Great moment in 'Cities on Flame' when he teases the fans, flexing his fingers before launching into the warp-speed finish.  Could somebody please take a copy of this to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and force the voters to watch it a couple of times?
This video does have a few deficiencies, as others have noted.  The sound is not always what it could be, and there a few lapses into excess, along with a few songs missing that we'd love to hear.  But these are just quibbles really.  The bottom line is this a concert experience to be cherished.  As for the missing songs, these guys certainly have enough material to do a few other completely different and great concerts. Let's hope that this sells enough copies to entice them to do another one come the next summer solstice.