Wow! I was about to attack Flash Gordon in review form as a stupid, poorly acted disaster of a film, but upon looking over what others had to say about it, I discovered there's a lot of folks who love it for the very things that put me off! Again, wow! I was in high school when this came out in the wake of the Star Wars phenomenon and I remember reading articles in Starlog Magazine about it before it hit theaters. It left a generally positive impression on me, but I haven't really thought a whole lot more about it for the past 30 or so years, although I credit this film with introducing me to Timothy Dalton, who I later became more aware of when he served his time as Bond (but he was better in The Rocketeer - which again puts him in a 1930s setting). I recently decided to see Flash Gordon again when a closeout sale presented a cheap copy of the DVD.  To my older self, the best thing about this film is by far the theme song by Queen. The story is silly and ridiculous (what's with the spaceship in the greenhouse? - but that's literally just the beginning), the acting (especially that of lead Sam J. Jones) is awful, and the special effects are laughable (although there's a couple of shots of the retro ships passing over the alien planetscapes which I kinda like).  In this version, Flash is an American football hero who, through a series of highly unlikely events, ends up getting shot into space where he and companion Dale Arden have to stop Ming the Merciless by uniting the leaders of the kingdoms under Ming.  In this viewing, it really struck me that the filmmakers were actively trying to emulate the 1930s origins of this property.  In many ways, it looks more like a stage play. The set designs (which just look like big open sound stages to me), the costumes (the cobra snake people with their eyes and faces in their mouths are especially bad), and Ming's planet-palace really look as if they could have been taken out of storage for this film after 70 years. This film really isn't my thing and I doubt I'll ever waste two hours of my life watching this again. If I'm looking for something silly and dumb, I'm more likely to seek out Hudson Hawk or Big Trouble in Little China. But if you're one of those people who like camp or actually want to watch this over and over, enjoy yourself!