The Rocky Horror Picture Show has been around for 33 years now, and I still hear people ask "What's the appeal to this?  It looks dumb!!"  Well, my friends, the only way to find out is to be willing to overlook the stupidity, and allow yourself to simply enjoy the ride for what it is...an iconic mosaic of insanity.

Back in 1981, I had the priviledge of seeing this movie for the first time...6 years after it's emergence.  I was 16 years old, and knew absolutely NOTHING about it...with the exception that it was THE movie to see on a Friday or Saturday night.  Pretty much everyone in my high school had seen it, and I wasn't about to be left out, so off I go, into the unknown.  I didn't know about being called out as a "virgin", or being "lei-d" until I got there and one of my friends spied me (she turned me in to the "cast").  From the moment I was marked with that huge V on my forehead, I was hooked!!!  What was to be just a movie experience turned into one of the wildest rides of my life!!

Now, it's 2008, and I STILL go to live shows of RHPS.  I am proud of the fact that I know every word, both in the movie, and of what the audience says in return.  I am proud (even if a bit dumb) that I've seen this movie in that way 34 times, and will be making that 35 this Halloween.  I do dress up...I fully participate...and once again, I enjoy that wonder I felt from that day so long ago.

Perhaps it's a bit childish, but the originality of the whole story remains after all this time.  Since there are plenty of reviews that explain the basic story plot, I won't bother you with all that.  These days, most people have seen at least part of this movie, and the story line is out there for anyone wanting to learn more.  And yes...to be honest, the story line sucks, and yet...it's wonderful at the same time.  It's a spoof of old horror films, and that's it.  Yet, this spoof has outlived some of the more classic films that have fairly good plot lines (The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby), and it's done it BECAUSE it's a spoof.  It's never been intended to be taken seriously, or to truely frighten.  Au contraire...it's a complete farce, yet one that gives rise to the feeling that, if you don't pay close attention, you might miss something important.

The DVD allows those who, for whatever reason, haven't seen a live showing, to get the feel of what is meant by audience participation, and that alone gives it great value.  Seeing this in the privacy of your home won't allow you to truely experience what RHPS is, but it WILL get you pretty close.  For those who live in areas where you can't catch a live show, this video allows you to enjoy, not only the movie, but the hilarity of making fun of it.

Trust me...you won't go wrong with buying this one!!!