This was a good movie -- but the writers missed a great opportunity to present science fiction with a way-things-ought-to-be theme.  Life as it SHOULD and OUGHT to be.
These alien creatures attack and begin killing members of the crew on a space ship, along with some guests in transit and Officer Ripley.  Ripley takes charge, and leads everyone in the effort to simply kill these creatures.  In the end Ripley and her gang of cowboys prevailed, and all the creatures were dead.
The writers overlooked an excellent chance to demonstrate how life SHOULD be.  When Ripley and her compatriots were first attacked, they should have asked themselves, "Why do these creatures hate us?"  And then they should have spent a significant amount of time examining their own behavior, to determine what faults or misdeeds of theirs had provoked the creatures to attack and kill them.  Next, Ripley and her bunch should have sought to form a coalition of some sort, dealing with a space equivalent of the United Nations, to pass resolutions against the creatures' violent behavior -- not against the creatures themselves, mind you, but only condemning their behavior.  Then, they should have sent inspectors to the creatures, to monitor compliance with the resolutions.  If the creatures had continued killing then, by golly, they could have given those inspectors more time.
THAT is how this story should have played out -- with the creatures living according to their own cultural/religious rules, and everyone else having to accommodate the fact that the creatures simply are going to kill/terrorize people from time to time.  That is the creatures' culture, and it was up to the others to understand, appreciate and accept that culture.  The sad fact is, Ripley and her people did not make enough of an effort to appease these creatures.  They showed absolutely NO signs of tolerance, diversity, inclusion or compassion.  Well, that's not wholly true.  That character portrayed by Brad Dorff was extremely compassionate in his last scene toward the end of the movie, praising the creature as "beautiful, beautiful, beautiful" just before the thing bit off his head.