There are enough reviews of the original version out there already, so I will confine my remarks to the "Extended" Version only.  When I first caught a glimpse of this version years and years ago on cable I was intrigued.  An extra 35-40 minutes of Dune can't be a bad thing, right?

Oh how naive and young I was then.  The extended version is a train wreck from begiing to end.  The additional voice over narration in the beginning is fun for about 60 seconds and then gets annoying - especially when combined with still shots of a production picture/painting.  The effect is not unlike the early Marvel Cartoons for Capt. America and Iron Man and Thor - the camera moves over a picture giving the illusion of motion.

Anyway, the additional movie footage (this is, actually using actors and not pictures) doesn't add any appreciable depth to the movie as a whole.  An added sequence with Gurney (Patrick Stewart)reciting some poetry during a council of war elicits a chuckle but dosn't improve the movie at all.  Likewise, a meeting with Keynes, Thufir, Paul, Gurney and Duke Leto where Dr. Keynes spits on the floor gives a little more color to the Fremen appreciation for water and its value, but it doesn't move the story forward.  Also realize that some of the added footage is merely some footage looped again and again - see the Harkonen assault on the Atreides forces on Arakis.  Yes, that is the same shot of the Emporer's shock troops. Its also the same shot of the space ships, etc.

On the plus side, some of the trivia and production info that comes with the discs is interesting, but he absence of David Lynch from the entire product is a glaring omission that tranishes anything that the production crew says about him.  I know Lynch is not happy with this product, so the production people constatnly referencing him just underscores his absence.

The original theatrical version is still there but I didn't find it to be any better, brighter, clearer or any other adjective.  Maybe its because I'm working on a lower grade dvd player, but I suspect that they didn't do any "remastering" or "enhancing" whatsoever.

Don't get me wrong:  I am a huge fan of all the books and the original movie.  This DVD release, though, is not worth anything to anyone but the most die-hard of fans.