Some films achieve moments we remember.  Others manage to evoke a time or a place through the careful marshalling of details. The real achievement of GoodFellas is that it does both things so well and so consistently. The amazing visual imagination of Martin Scorsese is the engine that drives it, sculpting one dazzling sequence after another into a cinematic whole. Unlike lesser directors, Scorsese manages to make the visual pyrotechnics look organic; emerging from the material itself, rather than merely being flashy.
Henry Hill (Ray Liota) grows up and comes of age in New York during the 60's and 70's.  He is a product of Pop Culture Pressure - if you drive the right car, wear the right clothing, and use the right cologne or mouthwash, you too, can take part in the American Dream and become one of those smiling people in the magazine and TV ads.  The problem is that few of us can legitimately earn the money to fuel that kind of lifestyle and still have enough time to enjoy it. That's the real allure of being a Wiseguy, of being "in the mob", or "part of a crew": if you're willing to live (and possibly die) by their code, you can pretty much have it all.  Or so it seems.
Of course, Henry learns - as do we - that there is a great price to pay for living high without actually earning it.  Henry gets most everything he wants - a lovely wife (played by Lorraine Bracco), some kids, a couple of houses, and the camaraderie of his "coworkers"; he also gets strung out on cocaine, investigated, arrested, and very nearly "whacked".  By the end of GoodFellas, Henry Hill should also have learned what becomes obvious to us - that Wiseguy honor is an illusion; that the close-knit mafia "family" of the The Godfather is a literary fiction.  Then again, he probably does know it.  He just doesn't care.  The lifestyle is, itself, a drug that exerts a powerful hold.  Only mortal terror can lure him into the Federal Witness Protection Program.
The large ensemble cast features exquisite work by Paul Sorvino, Robert DeNiro, and Joe Pesci, who is given the most memorable scene in the movie - the famous and chilling "You think I'm funny?"  bit.  Rarely mentioned but just as effective is Chuck Low as the hapless Morrie, a guy who just doesn't know when to keep his mouth shut.
The big disappointment in the DVD edition is that it's lacking in special features.  It's also a "flipper" - you have to turn the disc over halfway through the film to finish watching it.  I would love to see it reissued by Criterion in a dual-layer version with a commentary track by Scorsese himself.  That one would get five stars.