"Excalibur" is, quite simply, brilliant filmmaking, by an uncompromising, master director, who is a true artist, a poet and a painter. Boorman may be compared to visceral, British visual stylists, such as Terry Gilliam, Alan Parker, Adrian Lyne, Ridley Scott, Tony Scott, and others. But unlike other directors, he is out to please no one, only to remain true to his artistic integrity. "Excalibur" is tough and visceral, masterfully crafted, like a classic wooden roller coaster, not like the modern steel coasters (or heartless CGI effects) of today. It's like an acid trip or fever dream that gets under your skin and sweeps you into the screen. Boorman has made "trippy," psychedelic films before, but this is his masterpiece, with meticulous attention to detail. The film only has hints of magic, not an onslaught of effects, and shows great restraint in this respect, making it a mature, realistic, adult fantasy with real themes and philosophy to chew on.

Many shots are stunningly beautiful, like a painting from one of the great masters, in terms of composition, texture, lighting and details within the frame. The iconoclastic director is a great provocateur. "Excalibur" relentlessly engages the viewer with tactile imagery and unsettling themes. Visceral elements include water, fire, smoke, mist, blood, mud, steel, rock strewn streams, craggy moats, castles and swamps, with memorable images of a woman's swollen, pregnant belly, impalement, dismemberment, armor on flesh, a crow pecking out an eyeball, rotted corpses hanging from a gallows tree, horses' steaming breath, a forest on fire, silhouettes of fighting knights, green light on the sword as it rises in slow motion from the lake, Merlin trapped in a block of ice, the list goes on. . .  Unsettling themes include adultery, incest, rape, matricide, and patricide. Boorman taps into our primal fears and instincts. A child witnesses her mother raped, a baby kidnapped, taken from its mother's breast, bloodlust, lust for a woman we cannot have, lust for true love, lust for power, hating your parents enough to kill them, taking your father's place, being a rebel trapped in a cruel dictatorship, fear of our inevitable deaths and what lies beyond. . .

Most people do not realize how masterful Boorman is at drawing us into the screen, engaging our eye and senses, and our intellect at the same time. His manipulation of pacing, tone, time, space, story ellipses, turning points, surprises and new story information, all make for an absorbing, believable experience few directors could match. His skill is precise and unwavering, invisible to most, and worthy of close examination. Many films may have bigger budgets and effects, but they are usually hurried and do not ring true, made by directors with smaller intellects, out to please audiences, without true artistic integrity. Boorman is honest and takes his time, knows what he's doing, and does it right, according to his own agenda. He makes it feel real, and you can't ask for more than that.