After the abrupt ending of a Groundbreaking series 2 year run on Logo channel, viewers including myself yearned for more. Anything, we wanted to continue Noah's ARC, a dynamic series.

Sometimes comical, sometimes serious, ridiculous, outrageous, steamy, scandalous. Noah's ARC was always fun. In an interview with Doug Spearman (Chance) he said to the effect - 'I could imagine how a series like this could have helped me when i was 16 years old.'  I agree, i remember being a black gay male at 16, luckily living near New York and a progressive College town i had a pathway to my identity. The series fulfilled my pathway, while laying a pathway for many young gay people of all groups.

With its untimely end after 2 seasons many viewers felt as though a lifeline was ripped away from them. At the news of a follow up movie, we were elated to at least see closure to such a warm series. "Jumping the Broom" throws you into the Wedding weekend, learning that Noah and Wade are a couple ready to marry. While the regular series takes a whole season to run through a gamut of situations and  emotions, this movie threw all of that into about 100 minutes. When you think of it, that's one heck of a roller coaster ride, and it is. My personal loyalty to the show and cast gives the movie bias. Seriously, the stormy emotional environment dares to spin the story out of control, nearly losing the movie. You would wonder could the story be saved without being too pretentious. It was miraculously saved in the final reel, making the movie a bit unbalanced, Melodramatically laden through three quarters of the film. If i were a drinking man, the depression would have had me hopelessly drunk before the end. The salvation in the last quarter of the film appears to patch the tension and give you a happy ending as more of a duty than a natural progression.

Thanks to the vision and work of Patrik Ian Polk, "Jumping the Broom" contains strong symbolism such as relating the phrase 'Jumping the Broom' also creating a humble yet believable wedding ceremony. If you look closely (and diligently) Polk showcases the possible caveats, many 'what ifs' in the lives of Gay relationships.

Overall i suggest, "Jumping the Broom" is the third and final season of "Noah's ARC" concentrated into 100 minutes. As a loyal fan of the series,
the movie presents closure to an abrupt series cancellation, for that i am happy to add "Jumping the Broom" to my seasons 1 and 2 DVDs. If you've never seen the entire series the movie might seem ridiculous, maybe even trivial.

See the series, then watch the Movie.