First off I want to say that the message of this movie was supposed to be a good one. That America's way of dealing pregnancy and childbirth has veered completely off course. The film shows the possibility that doctors may be recommending c-sections for unnecessary reasons, not being honest with patients, and interventions are way overused. It seems like the entire culture has been brainwashed into thinking that women not only don't know how to give birth, but that when they do, the entire experience is traumatic and unpleasant and the woman needs to be numbed into obvlivion because it's such a terrible experience. This film gives a peek into pregnancy in other cultures, or at least in the Netherlands, where most women have home births. There were a lot of good interviews. There were times when I found myself extremely annoyed with certain people, such as when he asked the nurse about the high c-section rate and she replied that the c-section rate was "the lowest it's ever been."

I also noticed that many women that were interviewed expressed an interest in having a natural birth but for one reason or another had an epidural or c-section. I am wondering why, even after all this information about the high c-section rate is being publicized, women are still choosing to use OB/GYN's for basic normal births instead of midwives?

Although I think the movie had a good point, there was no way I could give it 5 stars because it was definitely flawed. The movie is very one sided. I felt like during the course of filming, the guy had some sort of "awekening" to thinking hospitals were bad, and forgot that hospitals are not bad because they do actually help people who have a problem. When they took their daughter to the hospital, he had a negative attitude about the hospital in general, and claimed that the hospital charged them $10,000 and never told them what was actually wrong with the baby. I find that extremely hard to believe. He also acted extremely melodramatic at some scenes. The worst part though was that he had decided without a shadow of a doubt that his wife was having the baby naturally and doing this and doing that, when he is not the one giving birth. Ultimately it is the mother's decision how to give birth, and I felt like he would not be supportive if she changed her mind.