I watched it for the 1st time in years on Payper view first. Some have complained that either the Shamus & Danials match was to fast! or the Kane & Orton match to slow. I grew up back in the early 70's watching MSG's channel show that months event hours later in the middle of the night. back then the guys took over 15 minutes to just warm up the crowd & each other. Today there is to much acrobatic moves & finishers that aren't moves that should end a match. I thought Kane & Orton did a great job taking the time to really give us a feel that they wanted to give us a decent match & not rush it to a fast finish. The Shamus bro kick was just the thing to put that match aside , so we could get to the really good gravy of the show of the decade. HHH w/Michaels as a ref. vs. The Undertaker was not the best Hell In A cell match of all time, But for the 1st time in years, the undertaker showed he had the endurance to take HHH to the limit & pull off another win for an unstoppable streak for us real pro wrestling fans. Big Show finally got to give/take Cody Rhoodes to the well & throw him in & get that big win they have taken away from Big Show over the years at W.M. But every one forgets that @ WM 20 @ MSG in the 1st match, John Cena took the US title from big show to give cena the pop he needed at that time in his career. B Show is the Andre Giant of our time. He could take away anyones title on any given night, but it's pro-wrasslin as DUSTY RHOODES would say { whom also was kept from title statis back in his time because he was the american dream & the PEOPLES CHAMP LONG BEFORE THE ROCK EVER PUT IN HIS DADDIES TRUNKS !! I don't wanna give away the deep grit of the night, buy this dvd if you only buy 1 this year & you will not be disappointed.It was a night of expectations & big surprises, thats what pro-wrestling is all about. I just wish they brought back more of the older type moves to make us fell the pain when a guy gets put down & gets pinned for the 3 count. As Ric Flair would say:Woooooooo!!