This third entry in Hammer's Dracula series (the second to star Lee) is most definitely a step down in terms of effective story telling. Whilst the set design, lighting and direction is as impeccable as Hammer ever produced, the fatal flaw is the script. 
Anthony Hinds' narrative spends too much time setting up the Count's reincarnation, and although being ingeniously well done when it comes, one cannot help but feel it has taken too long to get there (over 40 minutes to be precise). With Dracula risen from his coffin, it then feels as though the producers had little idea what to do with him. Lee's (perhaps wise) refusal to utter any of the lines Hammer gave him means that he spends most of the time in total silence and the action flitters from the castle to Andrew Keir's monastery with no real sense of purpose or direction.
There are, undoubtedly, moments of suspense. The final chase through the forest to Dracula's watery demise is gripping 'til the last, and the superbly named butler Clove is portrayed with eerie aplomb by Philip Latham as the Count's guests gradually lose their minds. The atmosphere and period are so well reproduced in fact, and the scary moments exploited so fully by director Terence Fisher that if the viewer is willing to suspend belief totally for one and a half hours then the film is genuinely unnerving. A very good point made by Christopher Lee in the commentary is that the actors played their roles as genuinely and as straight as possible so that the audience is far more willing to accept the fantastical elements of the plot. It works, and the performances of Lee, Barbera Shelley and Andrew Keir in particular, show the method to be extremely effective. Note in particular Lee's inhuman shriek as he spots Shelley's vampire muscling in on his fresh prey -  disturbing!
This DVD special edition is excellent. The (too long unavailable) widescreen version looks superb and adds to the enjoyment of the film greatly, the sound is fine, and there are no small irritating pauses at all. The extras are where the disc really comes into it's own though. The commentary, featuring Lee, Shelley, Farmer, and the odd utterance from Matthews is as enjoyable as it sounds like it was to make. Although Lee dominates, the most unusual fact raised is by Shelley who admits that all her screams were in fact re-dubbed by Farmer, as she found it impossible to reach such a high pitch.
The behind the scenes home video, however, has to be the best find of the disc by Anchor Bay. Although a mere five minutes long, it provides an extremely rare glimpse of the opposite side of the Hammer operation... and lets the viewer experience the special Hammer atmosphere. Combined with further commentary from the cast, it alone makes the disc worth buying. The trailers are amongst the best in Hammer's library as well, being graced with the presence of the most deliciously over the top voice over artist I've ever heard. All in all, whilst the film may lack the coherent script it needs, this is the last truly atmospheric Hammer Dracula film, and by getting the disc it deserves Anchor Bay have produced the ultimate special edition package.