If it takes a well-made film to remind us of the neglected jewels in our culture's literary showcase, then let it be a work that does honor not only its source, but also its own medium.  "The Age of Innocence" is such a film.
The luxury of a novel is that it can be experienced in stages -- picked up and put down as time permits.  A motion picture must capture us, enrapture us and return us to earth in time for the next meal.  Thus, many of the subtleties of character that the novel has time to explore must, in the film, be inferred.  Scenes that are free to languish interminably within the novel must often be omitted within the motion picture for the sake of economy.  Their lessons elided must be ignored or transmitted in another fashion.  The limitation that time places on the film has led some to perceive it as innately inferior to the novel.  With this kind of defective logic we might conclude that the sonnet is an inferior literary form.  It cannot be of worth without physical length and breadth.  Hogwash!  The length and breadth of any artform are measured in the breadth and depth of thought the work provokes.  Or, as Raymond Chandler once wrote: "There are no viable and significant forms of art.  There is only art, and precious little of that."
The challenge of the motion picture, when trying to translate the novel into a cinematic experience, is to stay true to the souls of the characters in the book.  By doing so, whatever is lost in in the process of distillation, truth remains.  Martin Scorsese proves himself full worthy of Edith Wharton's vision and in so doing, proves her worthy of his vision as well.
Exquisite! -- and at last on DVD!  Get the DVD!  Perfect casting, with Daniel Day-Lewis as Newland Archer, a New York socialite in the late 1800s torn between the social demands to marry for position and the inner burning for the love of a kindred spirit.  Michelle Pfeiffer is the Countess Olenska, a refugee from a scandalous marriage whose imperviousness to and freedom from the demands and disdains of the social class kindles Newland's passion.  
Winona Ryder is absolutely radiant as Newland's fiance, May Welland.  She is the winning image of everything that is style and grace but has no ability to perceive the dimensions of Archer's inner world -- his artistic world.  It is to Miss Ryder's credit that she plays her character as totally oblivious to her own intellectual vacuity.  She is in every other aspect of her character and personality, a person to die for.  A thousand other actors and directors would have allowed her single flaw to have negatively colored their entire rendering.  Yet it is her otherwise flawless character that sustains the tension as Newland Archer must decide between these two beautiful women, with each plausible choice bearing its own compromise with imperfection.
Thank you, Mister Scorsese!  You have honored yourself and us.  From the lush production design by Dante Ferretti to the cinematography by Michael Ballhaus to the bridge narration of Joanne Woodward, there is not a false note here.  For those who feel that two hours and eighteen minutes is "too long" to sit still, let me refer you to the movie "Amadeus," where the king is convinced that Mozart's work is too complex -- full of "too many notes."  Mozart smugly acquiesces to the king, agreeing to take out the offending notes if only told which must go.  "The Age of Innocence" is the perfect length -- just enough notes to tell the story and still remain true to the art of the film.  If someone wishes less, I would refer them to the Cliff's Notes.