Songcatcher is an enchanting film of incredible sights and sounds. Filmed on location in Appalachia, it captures the stunning, harsh beauty of the mountain landscape, while serenading us with the raw, powerful, amazing music that was preserved for generations in those mountains. It is the cinematography and soundtrack that are the true stars of this film, making the story and actors almost superfluous.

That's not to say that there aren't some fine performances in Songcatcher. Janet McTeer convincingly plays ethnomusicologist Dr. Lily Penleric as the uptight outlander who is captured by the purity of the mountain songs. Pat Carroll delivers the films stand-out performance with her brilliant portrayal of Viney Butler, the tough, wise, resourceful mountain grandma who befriends Dr. Penleric, and who represents the heart of the mountain culture.

Unfortunately, Songcatcher's story contains some glaring anachronisms which played havoc with my suspension of disbelief, and served as pesky distractions from this otherwise superb film. Dr. Penleric is launched into her mountain journey when she is unfairly denied a promotion to full professor, but in the world of 1907, as a woman, she would not have been any kind of professor at a prestigious university. (This anachronism is even acknowledge in the commentary track on the DVD,) The second anachronism involves the secret lesbian affair of Lily's sister, Eleanor (Jane Adams). While I have no doubt that such relationships happened in 1907,  Eleanor's easy and guilt free attitude about it has more in common with our contemporary culture, and rings false for the moralizing Edwardian age of the first decade of the 20th century. In both cases, these anachronisms are crucial to moving the story, and are not easily ignored.

Despite the problems of the story, this is still an excellent film. It expertly captures the unique mountain culture, as well as offering a visual and auditory feast for the senses. Fans of old time Appalachian music should consider Songcatcher mandatory viewing, and even those without a particular interest in the subject may find themselves swept up by the magic of these songs.

Theo Logos