I'm giving this only 4 stars. Why? Because most of the cliffhanger endings are far below average. That doesn't stop this from being an interesting serial anyway. This time Robert Lowery plays Batman. Robert Lowery(Oct.17 1913 Dec. 26 1971) began his film career with Fox in 1937.His earliest films include Four Sons & Drums Along the Mohawk. He appeared with his wife Jean Parker on stage in Born Yesterday Caine Mutiny & Burlesque. Later films include Young Mr. Lincoln(1939) A Scream In The Dark(1944) Prison Ship(1945) The Mummy's Ghost(1946) Death Valley(1948) Crosswinds(1951) The Rise And Fall Of Legs Diamond(1960) Johnny Reno(1961) & many more. Lowery also starred in 2 more serials The Mystery Of The Riverboat(Universal Pictures 1944) & The Monster And The Ape(Columbia Pictures 1945). During the mid-1950's Lowery costarred on the tv series Circus Boy. This program featured future Monkee Micky Dolenz in the title role. Lowery plays Big Tim Champion the circus owner. Also Johnny Duncan is well cast as Robin The Boy Wonder. He had appeared in 4 East Side Kids films & westerns with Roy Rogers Audie Murphy & other cowboys prior to Batman And Robin. Batman creator Bob Kane visited the set of the serial during production. The following quotes are taken from Kane's autobiography Batman & Me written with Tom Andrae(Eclipse Books(1989. Kane observes''This film boasted some improvements over the last serial.Katzman used a black Cadillac for the Batmobile instead of a gray convertible. And Robert Lowery was more athletic-looking and a better actor than Lewis Wilson. I ran into Lowery at a party in Hollywood several years later. I couldn't understand why he didn't seem to pleased to see me. When I inquired about this, he told me that because of me and my infernal creation Batman his career had taken a nosedive. The serial had been quite successful and he had been so typecast as Batman that he couldn't get another role. I felt sorry for him but I doubted whether he ever would have made it as a big star''. In this serial Batman and Robin battle the unknown masked Wizard. Does anybody notice the difference in the narration in chapter 1? The serial begins with Knox Manning(narrator for all 57 of Columbia's serials) announcing the action. When we first see Wayne Manor,someone else does this portion,then it's Manning for the rest of the movie. I'm not sure but I think actor Don Harvey was speaking about Wayne Manor. Harvey plays Nolan one of the Wizard's men-until chapter 6 when the Wizard orders him killed! The Wizard has stolen a powerful remote control machine which controls cars trains and planes from far away-without anybody driving them! The device was originally invented by Professor Hammil.Hammil became ill & was confined to a wheelchair before he finished the machine. The best cliffhanger in the entire serial happens in chapter 10. We see Batman fall several stories from a high rise building to his death. At the start of chapter 11 Bruce Wayne comes out to the car where Robin is waiting. How did this happen? We learn via flashback that Batman had been knocked senseless by an electric charge from a doorknob. Jimmy Vale one of the Wizard's men ''borrows'' Batman's costume hoping to correct the error of his ways. Oh yeah who turned off the electric charge that shocked Batman in chapter 10? We see a gloved hand turn off the fusebox but we never learn who's hand it was. The shot of Batman falling is actually a stock shot from chapter 1 of the 1943 Batman serial. Overall this serial isn't quite a classic. Once again the comic book villains are ignored. The Joker and Catwoman the Penguin the Riddler Two Face and Clayface had all made numerous appearances in the comics by now. Still the Wizard is a very mysterious villain in his own right. Lyle Talbot plays police Commissioner Gordon. He was one of the founding members of the Screen Actors Guild. As a result he was no longer offered leading roles in movies. That didn't stop Talbot from working by accepting every role offered to him until his death in 1994. He is perhaps best remembered as neighbor Joe Randolph on the tv series The Adventures of Ozzie And Harriet(1952-1966). His son Stephen played Gilbert Gates on tv's Leave It To Beaver in the 1960's. Leonard Penn plays Carter Professor Hammil's servant. In the 1960's he directed many movies as Leo Penn. He's the father of actor/director Sean Penn. I first discovered this serial when it was released on vhs by Goodtimes video in 1989. As I watched the tape I noticed many scenes in chapter 1 seemed to be cut short. Then in 1996 Columbia Pictures video released this serial again as part of the Serial Collection. There was no rerelease on vhs for the 1943 Batman serial. According to author Roy Kinnard's book Science Fiction Serials(McFarland Publishers 1998) the first chapter was cut by 8 minutes. When the Sony dvd came out all of the cut footage was fully restored. I recently learned there may be some missing footage from chapter 2. An interview with Johnny Duncan appeared in Filmfax Magazine #103(summer 2004). Duncan says a stuntman dressed in a Robin costume was fighting the crooks on top of the train. Duncan says the guy did a lousy job & he suggested someone else. On the dvd & vhs versions we only see Batman on top of the train fighting the Wizard's men. The Filmfax interview includes a couple of photos of a Robin stuntman at the close of chapter 2. So was the footage shot and then cut prior to its theatrical release? We'll never know for sure but like the serial itself it keeps you guessing!