It was a dark and stormy night... I lay on the couch drowsily flicking through channels... and came instantly awake  when Louise Brooks, slinky, sexy, and completely captivating, came onto the screen. Lulu, they called her. I was mesmerized to the very end. The movie was this Criterion restoration of Pandora's Box.

Puzzling, amoral LuLu! A pantomime and a book of the pantomime,at least 10 movies, two plays,an opera, and a comic book (yes, this LuLu). The tale of descent and disaster story has inspired the utmost daring in playwrights, composers, and movie makers since the 19th century. Fritz Wedekind saw the story in pantomime and wrote two famous and germinal plays. Georg Pabst masterfully distilled both plays into this silent movie (at least the third LuLu film) in 1929.

The film is wonderfully restored, sharp, bright, and with hardly a speck or scratch, and there is far more in the Criterion set than you will ever get from TV or Netflix. You can choose from four (wonderfully well played)scores -- one for each of the first four times you watch the movie. There's a documentary about Brooks and an interview with her and more interviews and commentary and a nice big booklet. And you can watch the culmination of silent movie technique, where expression and gesture speak more clearly than words. Quite a bargain, and Louise Brooks is THE LuLu. Or Pandora, releasing death and destruction on a world of lovers.

I glimpsed the exact forehead of spit curls that Hercule Poirot's secretary (the David Suchet version) wears, and came to understand that Pandora's Box must be a major reference for costume, hair styles, and The Look for films and videos set in the 20's and 30's. Just part of the fun of rewatching.

Lovers of opera -- or of Alban Berg-- might study this movie. It's perhaps not certain that Berg ever saw it before he started on LuLu (he worked from the Frank Wedekind plays and made a much longer and more muddled story from them), but Pabst's Pandora's Box echoes through all the productions of LuLu I've seen or heard of. Check out Christine Schafer's hairstyle in the Glyndebourne Opera DVD. (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00014NE76">Berg - Lulu / Davis, Schafer, Bailey, Kuebler, Harries, Schone, Bardon, Glyndebourne</a>)