These made-for-TV movies were extremely popular when they first aired in 1972 and 1973, respectively. As most of you probably know, they spun off a weekly TV series "Kolchak: The Night Stalker", which ran from 1974 - 1975. The show and movies are now considered cult hits and are fondly remembered by fans. I recently watched some reruns of the show on the Sci Fi Channel, and even though I liked it, I have to say that these movies were much better than the show.

Some jaded people who are fans of gory rated R horror movies may not see what all the fuss is about, but for the rest of us, these 2 movies are still entertaining 30 + years later. "The Night Stalker" was the first, and best one. It relied more on being spooky, while "The Night Strangler" relied somewhat more on humor (but was still creepy in its own right). These movies were well-written and well-acted, especially for 1970s television, and still hold up today. I vaguely remember watching a scene of "The Night Strangler" when I was a kid before my mother made me turn it off. She said it was too creepy for a kid to watch (and her, too). So, I never got to see these until now.

The DVD quality is excellent! They must have restored these, because I didn't see any dust or film scratches at all when I watched them. It really is the cleanest transfer I've ever seen on a DVD (and I have quite a few). Also, the cover picture of Kolchak with a flashlight and the night sky, large spooky eyes  and the city behind him all looks pretty cool! I would liked to have seen more extras, especially interviews with the late Darren McGavin (they could have interviewed him several years ago) or other stars, but this is a small argument.

If you've seen the show and thought it was hokey, these movies were much better. If you're a fan of Kolchak, you can't go wrong with this DVD. If you're not a fan, you may become one after watching this DVD. Also, there is a new Night Stalker TV show based on this that's coming out this fall. You really should see the original before you watch the new one.

Highly Recommended!!