This atypical fifties horror film is more concerned with suspense and character development than the eponymous creature; but when the hoary beast does appear you'll agree it's one of the better screen monsters.  Jacques Tourneur was already the recognized master of restraint in the horror genre by the time he directed this British production in 1957.  His earlier collaborations with producer Val Lewton generated a series of minor masterpieces, including "Cat People" and "I Walked With A Zombie."  Not content to direct a standard episodic thriller, Tourneur's films are imbued with a certain intelligence and respect for the audience.  "Night of the Demon" is no exception.  Charles Bennett's and Hal E. Chester's  thoughtprovoking and thoroughly frightening screenplay forms the framework on which Tourneur hangs several remarkably well directed sequences.  And, his work with actors Dana Andrews and Peggy Cummins yields fine, workmanlike performances; however, he gleans brilliant work from Niall MacGinnis and Athene Seyler in supporting roles that are richly drawn and invested with real humor.  This is not to say they are comic relief, these characters are indeed tragic and evil.  Nearly everything about "Night of the Demon" is perfect.  The production is first rate and its artistic merits are undeniable; from Ted Sciafe's black and white cinematography to Ken Adams production design, the care with which this tale is wrought is evident.  Based on M.R. James' story "Casting the Runes," the film deals with an investigation into the witchcraft related death of a colleague by an American psychologist (Andrews).  Aided by the dead man's niece (Cummins), the doctor must determine whether the power of a local magician (MacGinnis) to conjure up "demons" is truth or fiction; and if that power was used for murder.  "Night of the Demon" has all the elements of a great mystery, with just the right mix of the supernatural.  It is among the best horror films, and remains a literate and scary film. ***** (5 out of 5 stars)