Without a doubt, the Paramount films include the very greatest Marx Brothers films. They are at the peak of their powers here. Here are the films in order.

"Cocoanuts" is a very very early talkie, and is the Marx Brothers first film (excluding a long-lost silent short). The surprise is that the characters are not yet fully formed... Groucho is tentative in his insults, and Chico is not very funny. Harpo carries the show in this film. Not a very good film. However, they found a very good looking print. Nonetheless. this is the film you'll watch the least in this set.

"Animal Crackers" was filmed a year later, and is based on the George S. Kaufman / Morrie Ryskind Broadway play. The script has recently been published by the Library opf America, and the surprise is how much of what seems to be ad-libbed is actually very carefully scripted (for example, the scene where on of the characters forgets the other's name.. every word of this apparently impromptu flub is actually scripted). This is still early Marx, but it's a classic. This contains some of the finest work.

"Monkey Business" is the first film created for the brothers and not based on a play (the script is by the great S.J. Perelman). You can feel their awkwardness at not having an audience; they seem more tentative in this film than in "Animal Crackers" which they had performed hundreds of times. Nonetheless, they are quite wonderful. This is the one that starts off on an ocean liner and has them all imitating Maurice Chevalier to get off th eship. Personally I think the film peaks early (in the first half) and gently glides to a close.

"Horse Feathers" has in my opinion been unfairly ranked somewhat lower in their oervre than "Duck Soup." Personally, I think both films are equally great. Horse Feather sheds all the tentativeness of "Monkey Business" and embraces all the surreal absurdist humor of "Duck Soup." It starts with a great scene as Groucho, the newley appointed head of a college (!), addresses faculty and staff, or rather snubs them. It only gets weirder an dmore hilarious as it goes on.  Sadly, this print is the worst looking of all the films in this set. There's one sequence with about a dozen gaps where entire words and sentences have been spliced out for no reason; it's also scratchy looking. Great film, lousy transfer.

"Duck Soup" is usually ranked as their greatest film and not without reason. It's a hoot from start to finish (this is the one where Groucho is leader of a country). Some call it a "political satire", but I don't find it to be satirical at all. It's as much of a satire as "The Merry Widow" (to which its plot is suspiciously similar). The war scenes at the end with Groucho inexplicably changing costumes every other shot are uproarious.

"The Extras" There's only about 20 minutes of extras: I have no clue why they didn't simply add each of the three interviews to one of th eother discs. It's not as if these are long films (indeed, they could easily have fit this entire package onto three discs).

My advice... PICK UP THIS SET. While you're at it, buy the single disc of "A Night at the Opera." Then, you'll have all of the Marx Brothers best work. The rest has its moments, but can be skipped.