This so called 'miniseries' sounded like something that I would enjoy watching.  Ideas were supposed to come from the books Riverworld (which very well could of being has how I have not read the books I would not know).  If the movie takes some ideas from the books then I would love to read them, however if none of the ideas come from the books then I might just be wasting money.  I will still be looking into getting the books to compare the 'miniseries' to, I just hope they are better than the 'miniseries'.

Okay, so enough about my rant about books.  In these two episodes that span three hours (yes I said two episodes that span three hours, three pointless hours) there is really nothing going on.  The main character Matt dies, gets reincarnated, and has to save this fictional world.  He meets up with other people who have also died and been reincarnated.

The plot is there but it is severely lacking in building up of a climax, and any major detail as to why they are doing what they are doing.  The last ten minutes of the second episode just confuses one.  The first episode is dragged on, and the second episode isn't that much better.

Let me go into things that I liked.  I liked the idea behind the 'miniseries'.  That is really all that I liked.

Now it is time for the bad.  The historical characters seemed fake.  I mean this as to they acted differently than how I was taught in school (of course this could just be me.  I have been out of school for a while now so I could just have this idea from somewhere).  The plot was lacking, the characters acted out of character.  The main character was a complete and total waste of time.  Every twist that they try to throw into the plot just makes the movie that much worse.

Again I have never read the books that go along with this 'miniseries', but if you have read the books, please by all means STAY AWAY FROM THIS 'MINISERIES'.  If you are completely bored and looking at something new to watch, don't waste your time or money here.