Everyone's got a favorite movie-monster type. Some folks go for the gothic sexuality of the vampire; some are drawn to the Jeykll-n-Hyde torment of the werewolf. Some, perhaps, are in the spirit to love ghosts, and some are compulsively attracted to the exploits of the serial killer (where Freddy and Jason should be included).

Not me. I dig zombies.

Zombie movie-fans, and you know who you are, should be living high on the hog these days. Spurred perhaps by the high-profile (but dreadfully lame) success of Resident Evil, recent offerings range from the gripping 28 Days Later, the energetic remake of George Romero's classic zombie flick Dawn of the Dead, and the smart and snarky Shaun of the Dead. Hell, Romero's even getting back in the act with Land of the Dead mid-2005. Times are good for the undead.

As any good zombie-movie fan knows, there is no zombie film quite like Dead Alive. Dead Alive's formula, for many reasons, has not been attempted before or since. At heart, it's a light-hearted action-comedy-horror film (is there such a thing as an action-comedy-horror film? Did I just make that up?!) with buckets and buckets of gore. Perhaps `tubs' or even `vats' might be a better metaphor - I'm not sure even dedicated film horror fans have ever seen, or wanted to see, this much blood `n' guts before. If you think you can handle it, I highly recommend this one-of-a-kind zombie film.

Simply stated, the gore is what makes Dead Alive great - just when you think director Peter Jackson's cinematography and his FX department couldn't possibly top the last gross-out, over-the-edge gory gag, they do it. And, although there is a copious amount of it, the blood and gore is more cartoony than anything (I'd like to see that offered as an excuse to a network censor). Much of it doesn't seem real, because I can't remember the last time I saw someone eat their own ear, or have the skin on their face pulled completely off, or lose the lower half of their body and still try to attack others. To make matters worse for the squeamish, the gross-out factor is exponentially raised by the sound effects. You don't just see blood spurt, but hear it spurt in audible detail. It's unsettling and viscerally amazing.

As for the nuts and bolts of the film, such as characters, plot and what-not, Dead Alive is like no zombie flick I've ever seen. As such, I won't give away too much. Set in late 40's or early 50's New Zealand, the setting evokes a simpler, far-off time, though this pleasantness eventually comes crashing down as the chaos erupts. The dead-raising affliction comes to town via a vicious rat-monkey, who bites the overbearing society-matron-mother of indecisive homebody Nigel. Mother becomes infected and zombified. Nigel, unsure of what to do, locks her in the basement after she tries to kill him, and events quickly spiral out of control as Nigel wages a one-man-war to suppress the zombies, lest somebody find out about them. But the zombies take care of "promoting" themselves, and it's not long before all-out zombie mayhem breaks out.

For those that care about such things, these zombies are loosely based on the Romero-style zombie - they're slow, and jerky, but are very strong and determined to eat you (but not necessarily your brains, a la Return of the Living Dead). When they bite you, you become a zombie. Shots or hits to the head will "kill" them, but not always. In some extreme cases, even complete bodily dismemberment won't slow these guys (or gals) down, and their entrails have been known to cause mayhem. And (possibly copied by the Dawn of the Dead remake) zombies can have zombie babies. All in all, a tough, stupid bunch of undead characters.

This is a great zombie film; quaint and inventive at times, flat out disgusting at others, funny and touching in between. If you're even remotely a fan of the zombie genre, the final battle sequence between Nigel and the zombie hordes is worth whatever you paid to sit through two Resident Evil "films." As one character puts it, "Rich and creamy - just the way I like it." He was talking about custard, but he could have been just as easily talking about this gem of cinematic zombification.