Superb satire, send-up, and homage, "Gremlins 2" is light years better than the original. Director Joe Dante creates a loving satire of horror movies with Christopher Lee spoofing mad scientists, Phoebe Cates spoofing the first "Gremlins" film, and Tony Randall as the Genius Gremlin spoofing everything from Susan Sontag to Broadway. Watch on a very large screen television so you can see all the details (the homage to It's a Wonderful Life on the monitors in John Glover's office; it's in color and then in black and white), the Gremlin tee shirts with Gizmo on them with a red circle and line through him; the label on the Canadian beer at the new "trendy" Canadian restaurant etc. The film satirizes Ted Turner and Donald Trump in the character played by John Glover as well as trends in movie making (listen for the announcement about the showing of Casablanca with the new, happy ending). And watch for one of the most brilliantly directed scenes in any movie: Just after Gizmo gets wet and bears some offspring, pay attention when janitor John Astin is on the phone describing how the younger workers are forcing out the older ones -- while the new Gremlins are doing just that to Gizmo. It's as if he's reporting what is happening to Gizom.
All in all, Dante out did himself with this film. It's a shame that Warner Bros. did not know how to promote it. Interestingly, "Premiere" magazine's chart of movie reviews for the year in which Gremlins 2 was released showed that it was the best reviewed film of the year, averaging 3 1/2 stars from the nation's film critics. It's a loving homage to films in general -- don't miss it, especially if you love a big Broadway number.
Coda: I met director Joe Dante in 2000 when the Chicago International Film Festival honored him ... with a showing of Gremlins 2. Turns out that he did the film only because Warner Bros. insisted -- it was the only way he could get to direct other films for them. So he set out to make Gremlins 2 the "sequel to end all sequels" in Dante's words. He may have succeeded.