Schindler's List DVD Review
  The Holocaust refers to the period from January 30, 1933, when Adolf Hitler became chancellor of Germany, to May 8, 1945 (V­E Day), when the war in Europe ended. During this time, Jewish people in Europe were subjected to harsh persecution that ultimately led to the murder of 6,000,000 Jews (1.5 million of these being children) and the destruction of 5,000 Jewish communities. Schindler's List is a movie that based on these true and inhuman events. This masterpiece has given people a vision into these brutal acts. During this time Oskar Schindler saved over 1000 Jews from concentration camps over the period of the Jewish Holocaust of World War II. Schindler would forge documents and provides different names, as well as work certificates for his factory so the Jewish people would be rescued from extermination, those who would be considered dispensable and be sent to the ghetto and concentration camps. Schindler's other employees recruited Jewish workers and were taught, and given instructions by the technicians on how to use the heavy machinery to manufacture soup bowls and by doing this he saved many Jewish lives. This motion picture captured and allowed us to go back to that time to witness how these people were unjustifiably tortured, and punished. It gives us an illustration to see the disgusting deeds committed in these concentration camps. The Jewish people were beaten, gassed, murdered, tortured and hung. They were fed and treated like animals. This film enlightens the viewer into the disturbing reality that was the Holocaust and illustrates how the Jewish citizens of Germany were ordered to perform unthinkable and revolting tasks. It shows the ghetto residents restricted to the confines of the small area provided, were there was no freedom and very little food or water. Schindler's List illustrates the atrocious events that people in power can execute behind closed doors.  It is movies like this that can ensure an event like the Holocaust will not go unnoticed by the public in the future. It's a must see movie and has been awarded 7 Academy Awards. Truly an outstanding movie.