For fans of anime and animation in general there are not that many theatrical quality shows produced, often we're stuck watching a series developed for television or Disney films aimed at a less mature audience. Every few years however we get a "Princess Mononoke", or "Ghost In The Shell"; "Blood: The Last Vampire" is such a film.
  In part because of the films brevity (it clocks in at about 50 mins) Blood does not feature the same level of character/theme development as the aforementioned titles, but the story told fits well in the time frame given, which is very surprising. Most questions people will be left with are ultimately not pertinent to the story, but you'll want more. Pacing is at the speed of sound through much of it, but slows down for scenes that need to make the viewer anxious. The only film that can match Blood in action scenes and over all speed is the soon to be released Katsuhiro Otomo produced kinetic frenzy "Spriggan". American fans of Indiana Jones and Akira will have to wait later in the year to see a domestic release of that though. But at it's heart this film is suspense. The action is good, and leans toward the realistic side, but the focus is on the hunt. So fans of such awesome swordplay as ADV Films "Samurai X" (Rurouni Kenshin OAV) might be left craving more scenes, I think most people will be satisfied with the amount of action.
  Every shot in Blood is lit and textured in a moody style, and space is filled deliberately in each scene. Unlike most vampire films, Blood does not go down the monochromatic route of gothic. Much of it takes place during those late autumn afternoons where everything glows a golden hue, and it works amazingly. Visually there is nothing to complain about at all. The sound is an interesting issue, the score seemed well done, but it's not memorable (and it shouldn't be), FX were great, and the voices... Well, that's an interesting issue. Most of the movie takes place on an American military base in Japan, so about %70 of the spoken dialogue is in English. Personally, as a fan of the Japanese method of voice recording I'm used to characters emotions coming out as very real, however the work in Blood often sounds flat, with a particular scene near the end being an amazing exception. All in all though, a very small price to pay for an excellent production of a movie that almost feels like an suspense/action cinema by way of experimental animation.