This is a great movie with great characters and David Lean allows them to build, which is why it is so long.  The original was shot with Panavision cameras so you have a true widescreen picture and the Blu-Ray process allows it to shine through on a TV screen.  Great picture and sound quality, well worth the price.  The extras are interesting especially the "making of".  I was surprised to find out that Alec Guinness was the last choice for his part and at first did not want to play the part.  William Holden was added to get an "American" in the picture for US distribution.
What I would like to ask any old timers, like me, that may read this if they remember when this film was shown on TV for the first time, it had to be the early 1960's (turns out to be 1966 on the ABC Network).  There was a scene at the beginning of the film as the prisoners are approaching the camp, straggling their way through the jungle with the Japanese guards prodding them on, Alec Guinness tells his officers to pass the word back through the ranks that the men in the camp must be completely despondent and to show them that "our men" still have spirit and are not broken they should form ranks and "march" into the camp as soldiers.  This establishes Guinness' character right at the beginning of the film ("by the book", "stiff upper lip" and all that).  When they enter camp they are in formation and whistling "The Colonel Bogey March" (British humor, as WWII solders used this tune to sing "Hitler's only got one ball").
I have never seen this scene again.  Now it it is just them struggling through the jungle and the next time we see them they are in formation marching into the camp.
Was this a deleted scene that was added in the TV version only or did I imagine it?
Anyone out the that can comment on this?
UPDATE 9/12/12:  I have heard from someone that informs me the scene I mention is in the version shown on Turner Movie Classics so I did not imagine it.  Can anyone else confirm this?  Why this scene was taken out of the regular release I do not know.  I wish the DVD versions had a Deleted Scenes section to see what else was eliminated.