I came to this movie with high expectations, having heard a lot of good things about it. It seemed tailor-made for someone with my past and present obsessions, including 1930s and 40s Hollywood, pulp science fiction magazines, cheesy old sci-fi movies, and Raiders of the Lost Ark. And there's no denying there was a recurring thrill of recognition of those things during much of the movie.

But fairly soon it began to suffer by comparison to some of the old films it pastiches. I think it first occurred to me during the scene where Polly sits in the back seat of the aeroplane reading the book... and actually reads it. A great director like Howard Hawks could have despatched that exposition in fifteen seconds flat on a bad day, but here it seems to plod along for minutes. Sure, the fast action scenes need to be punctuated by less intense moments to let the audience draw breath, but those moments are better achieved by character, comedy and romance. Is this part of the pastiche, lovingly recreating the clumsy drawn-out exposition of those low-budget fifteen-part adventure serials of the 30s and 40s? Perhaps, but while a film like Raiders of the Lost Ark pastiches not the actual movie serials, but the serials as remembered by those who grew up with them, Sky Captain seems to pastiche the real thing, warts and all.

And Joe Sullivan (I had to look up the name in the Internet Movie Database) never quite came to life, in the way that Indiana Jones did in the first five minutes of Raiders. In some ways this is just a difference of character, Joe having an almost stereotypically "English" reserve (think David Niven's Peter Carter in the opening scene of A Matter of Life and Death). But whereas that film finally breaks through Carter's reserve, Joe goes through the whole movie not seeming to care much more about his adventures than the audience.

These issues aside there's a lot of good in here. Everything looks great, and even if the story doesn't hold the attention for the duration, there's always something worth looking at, and a strong supporting cast of character actors. And there's a certain  excitement just in seeing the first example of what should be a new wave of "completely imagined" films.

The featurettes (on the 2005-released Widescreen Special Collector's Edition DVD) are excellent; the story of the film's genesis and production makes a better story than the film itself. One featurette includes some of director Conran's original demonstration footage, painstakingly put together on a PC over six years, which actually looks like genuine grainy black and white 1930s-film-on-videotape. I'd have loved to see a whole movie that looked like that, but it wouldn't have played well in the multiplexes.