when i heard about this team having another movie, i was very interested to watch whatever movie they were coming out with.
now, i hadnt heard what type of movie it was going to be and it didnt matter to me because it was sandra & keanu.
then, when i heard the name of the movie, for some reason, "the lake house" didnt appeal to me.  (but i encourage you, dear shoppers, go and watch this lovely movie).
but once again, it didnt matter because it was sandra & keanu.
i guess, after "speed" back in the 90`s, my expectations coming to "the lake house" were high.
you know, the great combination from "speed":  a little bit of drama, action and of course, romance.
so, when "the lake house" opened here in okinawa, i wanted to catch it on the big screen and make it a "girls night out" with my fellow teachers.
the first time i watched it, i wasnt sure how i felt.
i liked it but i left the theater, feeling sad, feeling like something was missing.
for sure, i was going to buy the DVD and watch it again.
i figured since i was going through my own personal heart break, maybe that was why i feeling sad, feeling like something was missing and i felt that was unfair to the movie.
anyway, months have passed by and im ok now...and ive seen "the lake house" several times on DVD.
and i really love this movie and ive grown to appreciate its beauty so much.
ive also love the dog "jack", what a great dog!
well, sandra & keanu`s great chemistry on screen.
its true, we all love sandra in her comedy roles and keanu in his action packed movies but "the lake house", what a lovely, mature love story...
i was right there through their emotions through their letters that they had exchanged.
it was comforting to me to watch their love story here in "the lake house".
it finally made sense to me.
by the way, if 2 people were meant to be, then, the beauty of love is when everything unfolds...if and when it happens, cherish every moment.
this is what is great about movies, it touches us in different ways, during different parts of our lives.