There are two types of horror movies: (1) Those that rely on hackneyed plot devices and strive for "Boo!" moments to enjoin suspense and fear from the viewer; and (2) Those that yield a sense of horror through a profound psychological effect. I recognize the merit of (1), but I tend to prefer (2) simply because such films tend to be more engaging in their originality. The Cell is of this type, and it's an enjoyable film so long as it is taken as a shallow sci-fi/horror flick and nothing notably intellectual or deep.
The Cell's most amazing quality is its incredible visuals. With the magic of special effects (clap clap) you are taken into the twisted mind of a very psychologically distraught serial killer. It's a truly surreal, disturbing journey not for the lighthearted, but engaging for those who stick with it. Disquieting imagery, gritty design, and disconcerting camerawork underscore the overtly twisted and fantastic jaunt through the killer's psyche. It's quite an engaging experience, sadly undermined by a few faults.
I'm not a fan of Jennifer Lopez's acting, and she's not great here, although I suppose she suffices by conveying the amicable and sympathetic elements of her character. The script is just fine, and succinctly covers a lot of ground in the movie's densely packed exposition so you can immediately jump into the core genus of the film's plot. The story fails to achieve a sense of suspense, which is unfortunate. The whole motive for entering the serial killer's mind is to find where he hid his last victim. I suspect this was meant to provide an added measure of urgency, but I all but forgot that factor during the scenes where Lopez explored the mind of the murderer. Maybe it was a superfluous component of the plot, or maybe it was just poorly implemented. I'm not sure, but I never really felt engaged by that aspect of the story.
But that's okay, because the disturbing visual aspects of this film more than compensate for a little flimsiness in the story. The serial killer's mind is a weirdly absorbing place to explore, and there was some breathless sense of intensity associated with that alone. Style over substance? Sure, a little. But, like very few other films, it doesn't matter all that much in the end. This movie leaves one seriously bothered in the end, but for all the horror, we like it. That's the magic of The Cell.