Living not far from Amsterdam in the netherlands, I saw this movie when I was 15 years old.
And I saw it again, and again. The Car runned in the Rembrandsplein Theater for 4 months I believe, and after a year, it was back, to scare people for a next couple of weeks.
Between those periods there came star wars...
I realy felt in love with THE CAR. It was so scary!
But more so....Exciting!
It played with tabu-like supressed wishes, it played with the killer in each of us. Who doesnt want to do sometimes what the car did without any remorse? What stops us is the notion that some things can not be reversed, can not made undone.
And we don't like to feel sorry.....
But this car does not care. 
This is in my opinion the best road suspense movie ever made, althaugh acting was not "state of the art", but James Brolins acting makes the threat of the car very serious and believeble.
And I always liked the cinematography of this movie, simple and effective.
The real actor in this movie is the demonic car.
Basicly built on a lincoln, many people say a mark 3, but it realy has the grille of the mark 4 (it is bigger than the mark 3's grille), the outer chrome frame is painted black in the case of this monster. There is a kind of Rolls Royce like armor around this car, and the car seems even to have a kind of face.
And I dont mean a face like in Thomas the railway-engine :-)
Already crazy by the car of tv-detective Cannon, this "thing" made me a lifetime lincoln-fan.
Has anyone noticed that some of the later concepts by Lincoln have some influence by the customcar in this movie? (Lincoln Sentinel, Lincoln Mark 9)
The strongest parts of the movie are in my view:
1 The simple straight forward editing. (back to basics)
2 The uneasy way the movie also uses silence. (also used in Duel)
3 The wanna-have soundtrack of Leonard Rosenman.
4 The use of sound effects (the horn of the car, the mix of several engine sounds (at the bikerchase it sometimes sounds like a truck)
6 The big policechase in the middle of the movie, the graveyard-scene and of course the garage-scene and the (last)phone-scene with Kathleen Loyd 
And the roll-over stunt is so good!
Have fun with this movie and cover your ears.
Richard Sch&uuml;ssler