Daniel Clowes is a master of the uncomfortable moment. His cartoons have the uncanny effect of recreating one's own worst missteps, perceptual errors, personal demons and intimations of failure. Which is one reason, I suppose, that this brilliant movie, based on Clowes' actual experiences in art school, has been almost universally damned by Amazon's critics.

This is a shame. The movie features some of the greatest actors working today (Anjelica Huston, John Malkovich, Jim Broadbent), a ferociously tight script by Clowes, and is directed by Terry Zwigoff (who also made Crumb and Bad Santa and previously collaborated with Clowes on the unforgettable Ghost World).

Art School Confidential stars Max Minghella as Jerome Platz, a shy, sensitive and ambitious kid with dreams of being the next Picasso. True to Clowesian form, his artwork is ridiculed by fellow students and professors alike--they call his work derivative, lacking soul, inhuman, like something drawn by a machine. The fact that it is perfectly rendered and makes his fellow students' stuff look like the amateur crap that it is draws a bead of jealousy to his solemn brow. His roommates are an outrageously over-the-top would-be movie director, a sort of cross between Quentin Tarentino and Jim Morrison, and a fashion major in severe denial about his sexuality. Platz falls heavily for art model Audrey (played by Sophia Myles), who seems like a dream come true--gorgeous, good-hearted and unaffected, Audrey connects with Jerome at a deep emotional level.

Needless to say if you're familiar with Clowes' work, Jerome is destined for a harsh dunking in the reality bucket. Audrey falls for a strappingly handsome, broad-shouldered new student, Jonah (Matt Keeslar), whose ultra-naive paintings become the hit of the school. Jerome begins to adopt the philosophy and mannerisms of the Satanic alum portrayed by Jim Broadbent, a foul slob who's drinking himself to death in a filthy apartment between bouts of masturbation to "The Facts of Life." Meanwhile, a serial strangler is stalking the campus, piling up the body count and providing story material for Platz's room-mate, who is making an Uli Lommel-like true crime movie about the killer.

To say more would spoil the slender plot, but what makes this movie more than worth the price of the ticket is its exceptionally well-drawn (pun sorta intentional) characters and its harrowing depiction of the cant, hypocrisy, pretension, greed and sheer vapidity that drives the art school and its affiliates (look for Steve Buscemi as "Broadway Bob," the crass owner of a local gallery cum coffee house). There's few actually likable characters and quite a number of bizarre hipster types that should be familiar to anyone who's attended college within the last 20 years. Don't expect a happy ending, although you may get one anyway--Clowes-style, of course, with that faint hum of ambiguity that gives his satirical comics the air of realism. Although Art School Confidential comes second to the impeccable Ghost World, it's a great introduction to Clowes inky universe.