A friend of mine rented this movie last night, and before then I'd never heard of it. Could easily be that my only news and ad source is the net, but that's not important.
The prospect of actors that usually play specific types of roles venturing out into other genres of films is very interesting to me, and as such, I was very excited to pop this movie in and watch.
Up until Megamind, Will Ferrell has sort of had a checkered past with what I've seen of him. Some stuff was relatively funny, but most was painful to sit through.
Megamind, for me, was proof that there was more to this actor than previously thought. Even if it was just voice acting, it was evidence that he could act in a way that not only wasn't irritating, but was also endearing, charming, and clever, to boot.
The most I got out of Everything Must Go was that Will Ferrell is an amazing actor when in the right circumstances.
Very soon into the film I stopped seeing Will Ferrell and saw Nick Halsey, an alcoholic that loses his wife, job, home, credit, and everything else of mention in a very short span of time. He did an amazing job of becoming that character, most assuredly. A lot of negative reviewers seemed to not actually be talking about the movie, but more their disappointment that the leading man wasn't doing his usual stuff. It's important to not see that an actor's in a movie and automatically think, "Oh hey, it's that guy! This is gonna be funny!"
It's hard to put my feelings on this movie into words. On one hand, I love that there was no fairy tale ending- it was very realistic, and probably a better outcome than a drunk sitting on his lawn for five days would produce in real life. The wife's actions, while seeming a bit extreme in the beginning, are also something I could easily see happening.
On the other, I'd imagine for most people it would be hard to see the moral message through all the depressing situations.
This movie is definitely worth seeing, whether it's to appreciate what you have in life, realize the path you're headed so you can correct it, or just to see how versatile Mr. Ferrell's acting has become.
And to see Kenny. That kid's awesome.