As someone who is a die-hard mystery reader and sci-fi fan, I was intrigued when I saw this show advertised on BBC America.  After watching the first few episodes, I was throughly hooked.  So much so, I requested the seasons 1 & 2 DVD sets as my Christmas gift!  If you are a fan of shows such as "Lost" and "FlashForward", you'll probably really enjoy the "Life on Mars" series.

As the prior reviews state, the basic premise is modern-day Manchester cop Sam Tyler (John Simm) is in an auto accident and "goes back in time" to 1970's Manchester.  Everyone is expecting DI Sam Tyler to show up at the Manchester PD, except for Sam, who is completely freaked out by the situation (and his 1970s-era wide lapel duds).  Sam has to figure out how to interact with his 1970s colleagues Ray and Chris, deal with his tough and chauvanistic boss Gene Hunt (a phenomenal performance by Philip Glenister, btw), ponder potential romance with a WPC, and, of course, figure out how he can "get back" to modern-day Manchester.

Some thoughts on how UK Life on Mars compares to the US version:  While the US version does try to keep the basic characters of the UK series, the two series really diverge and end very differently.  I have to say I did not really get into the US series, but then I had already watched the UK series and was somewhat biased.  The UK series is definitely gritty and darker then the US series.

Re: how Life on Mars compares to "Lost": As a Lost fan, I do think there are similarities in the shows such that fans of one will want to check out the other.  One big difference between LOM and Lost is that LOM episodes really become about Sam living in the 1970s and trying to approximate "normal" life.  So while we are interested in what happened to Sam to move him into the 1970s and how he can return to the current time, a lot of the enjoyment with the series is watching Sam acclimate to his new life and the "team bonding" of Gene, Sam, Ray and Chris.

If you enjoy the UK Life on Mars series, I also recommend watching "Ashes to Ashes", which is available (as least right now for US viewers) on the internet (see YouTube).  (This is because BBC America has a cunning plot NOT to make any money by trying to sell the US-format DVDs while it decides whether it is going to show Season 2 here in the US.)  This is the sequel to Life on Mars, where a female detective "flashes back" to the early 1980's, to join up with -- you guessed it -- Gene, Ray and Chris.  Ashes to Ashes is more comic/not as dark vs. LOM, but very entertaining.  As someone who was a teenager during the early 80's, I almost enjoy it more than LOM sometimes!  Happy viewing!