Awesome dancing! Great singing/meowing! Fun characters!

The DVD starts off with tons of pairs of cat eyes popping out with the introductory overture. Then the jellicle song comes audible in cresendo. You start seeing a number of cats crawling around the stage, that's when the action starts to come in. Andrew Lloyd sure made a explosive opening to the world of cats. Different cats are then introduced like Mankustrap, Macavity, Grizabella etc.

Generally,there wasn't a fixed plot like a cat's life that has no plot at all. They spend most of their lives hunting for food and sleeping except that the cats in the musical broadway came alive preparing to be chosen to lead a new jellicle life.

The part with Bombalurina and Demeter singing Macavity. Great voices and dancing! There were still some other well-composed songs like 'Jellicle song', 'skimbleshanks the railway cat', and more.

The stage setting was marvellous. It was made to look like an abandoned alley at night when cats start coming out. Lighting effects were done really well too. One of the most interesting advantage is that the choreography was totally awesome! Every step was perfect and well rehearsed.

Though all the music factors are perfect, there may be some understanding difficulty for some audiences. There's no doubt that in each scene, new types of cats are introduced. One critizm, Bustopher Jones and Gus were two very unnecessary characters. The songs were good though but the scenes were lame.Audiences who have hard times catching things up shouldn't watch this DVD for understanding purposes but to simply enjoy the songs.

I believe this is one very unique type of broadway. Every cat has this slick, tight costume which enables him/her to dance more comfortably. Added up with the background scenes, the actors look like real cats. There may have been a few too many times of close-ups but hey! This is a movie right? You don't expect the camera to stay at one point!

I already watched it in school last year during our music lessons but I thought it was just so great that I decided to buy it. I had loads of fun watching it with my parents and am planning to watch it a many times more!

Kirstie Marie