A group of college kids are vacationing in the Tennessee woods, having rented a run down cabin for the weekend.  Once there, they accidentally release a host of Kandarian demons.  Then the stuff hits the fan.
I have several reasons for liking this movie.  The main reason is Bruce Campell.  His charactor, Ash, isn't the hero type he turns out to be in Evil Dead 2 or Army of Darkness.  He is much more sensitive and eaisily frightend, spending the first half of the movie letting Stevie take care of most of the dirty work.  Ash is reluctent to kill or even bury those that were once his friends, no matter what they have done to him.  Ash even cries.  He is the hero only because he isn't as brave as some others.  Not until later, anyway.
The second reason I love this film is the pure fright value of it.  From the first five minutes the eerieness of the movie comes through.  The special FX are generally top notch, as is the makeup (see for your self how creepy Linda looks with just a little touch up).  The end scene is one of the best FX sequences I have ever seen, and the "chased by the evil" effect is pretty spiffy. 
For those of you who, like myself, prefer a good splatter every now and again, there is plenty, both from monsters and from the cabin its self.  For those that prefer to be scared silly, again like myself, Sam Raimi does a wonderful job of building suspense. The evil in the woods spends more time toying with the kids than actually killing them.  There are quite a few "jump" moments as well.  Even if you know the film, some of the scenes make you jump every time.  Adding to the fright are the feeling you get for the characters.  When something happens to them you find yourself going "oh no, not him/her.  that can't happen to them". 
Be warned, though, ED lacks the director's  signature humor in favor of scares.  For those of you looking for that, i highly recomend checking out the other two fims in this series.
For anybody who is a fan of downright horror, independent film, Bruce Campell, Sam Raimi, or movies in general, Evil Dead is an essential part of your collection.  In my humble opinion, it ties Night of the Living Dead for the greatest horror movie and cult classic ever made. Trust me.