OK so this thing starts out with the intrepid girl reporter bumping into a road block and a friendly Marine telling her to go back. This is the kind of thing that gets IGRs hopping along (pun intended) in these kind of movies. After a couple of skirmishes with The Man an old geezer Army Dude takes a liking to her and spills: the whole town was destroyed and all the people are missing. Cut to Peter Graves and his "this-dog-is-gonna-die" research assistant at the Giant Inedible Fruit research lab. Oh ho ho, it's so hard to keep the snails and ...uh...grasshoppers out of the giant-fruit-making equipment. But the shoe doesn't drop. Later, the assistant gets eaten by a giant grasshopper, Peter and The Girl go to Washington and get dissed by some generals until someone calls on the phone, Pete explains that the grasshoppers can't fly because they were somehow mutated when they got huge but he doesn't mention why they can't hop. I mean, I'm not a grasshopper expert but I've tried to pick them up and they hop away. No hopping in this show. Probably too expensive to get footage of hopping grasshoppers. Anyway, the hoppers are heading to Chicago, the Girl Reporter loses all of her intrepidness and clings to the not unattractive Mr Graves, the grasshoppers arrive in Chicago and walk up a photograph of some big building which is made completely, laughably obvious by the occassional bug walking off into the "sky" in the photograph. The general is going to nuke Chicago into the stone age in order to get rid of the pests, but Pete wants to be Green and devises a plan whereby he will play a sound, that will summon all the bugs, from a perilously small boat in the middle of the lake. It works. The General loses most of his dignity on the tiny boat but other than that they all make it through unscathed.

This is pretty bad, but not as bad as I thought. The Grasshoppers were obviously superimposed close-ups (sometimes you can see background right through them) but I was anticipating men in grasshopper suits along the lines of Godzilla so I was pleasantly surprised. The woman turns into a simpering washcloth which irritated me and was at odds with her described fame in war zones and other places. Peter Graves is his usual self. Pretty entertaining if only for the humor of the giant bugs.