I'm a life-long fan of the Stones and I basically have everything they've ever produced in multiple formats.  As I write this I'm waiting for UPS to deliver the two comprehensive vinyl box sets which were just released.  Last week I watched "Ladies and Gentlemen: The Rolling Stones" and I was amazed at how good it was.  That DVD reveals the Stones in their most intense and psychedelic splendor.

This DVD is almost a decade later from "Ladies and Gentlemen" and the vibe has changed considerably. This is their ultra-commercial phase.  The crowds are huge.  (The sound quality at Candlestick, where I was way back in '81, and as I well recall it, was awesome; not so in this video.  The music is very washed out and hollow here throughout.)

Keith and Ron are still without affectation and  jam away like the pros they've always been. Keith is arguably in his prime in these shows, both physically and musically.  Ron is definitely into the music and he looks like he is really enjoying putting it out there.

Charlie looks mildly amused throughout. He has an emerging bald spot on the back of his head which kind of seems symbolic to me of the overall decline (or, more charitably, change) of the band as the boys age out. Bill Wyman looks bored and slightly indignant.  Congruously, he wears saggy "athletic/leisure suits" which would be consistent with what you'd see at a retirement home or amongst any hip geriatric crowd.  Bill's entire vibe on this tour is the antithesis to rock and roll. But maybe that is part of his appeal, in an ironic sort of way??  He doesn't cater to the whole "fame" thing.

But the real disappointment is Mick. Maybe I should say "embarassment" rather than disappointment. I had declared to my young daughters before our viewing that I thought Mick was the "the most major dude on the planet since Alexander the Great or Julius Ceasar," and "even more famous" than Sinatra and Dino.  These bold proclamations caught their attention and they readied themselves for the big show.

My words came back to haunt me, and they soon began mocking me.  The way Mick dressed on this tour is literally visually painful.  He wears skimpy feminine tops and bright pastel jackets with shoulder pads.  Even worse are these white football pants complete with knee pads and an (exagerrated)crotch cup.  His dancing style would be very compelling for a (female) stripper at an upscale strip club. At one point he pulls off his shirt, and I was half expecting to see breasts underneath. He swings his boney hiney here for 90 minutes like he thinks he is Vanessa del Rio. My older daughter kept asking why he danced like a girl, and I explained the concept of "androgyny" to her.  She replied "this isn't androgony (sic), this is a man acting like a girl. And, the Chairman of the Board isn't androgonous, he dresses really classy."  I couldn't disagree with her in good conscience. She also asked, "Is Sir Mick like Sir Elton John?" (Whom we also greatly admire.)  "Is it the same 'situation' with Mick?," she asked. I told her "no," and I emphasized all the exotic super models Mick has dated over the decades as proof, but I'm not sure she believed me.  A lot of Mick's movements here are indeed keenly provocative in a highly feminine manner, and in my view they are NOT cool at all.  I don't recall this particular vibe at all in any of the other concerts I've attended or videos I've seen of the Stones. Mick normally struts like a territorial bantam cock; here, he is gallavanting, with the aforementioned disconcerting hiney shaking.  This was clearly an unfortunate little phase Mick went through. It is probably mostly the clothing which blemishes his style here as it so dated.  The Mick from before this tour and after is pure brilliance, but this phase is painfully garish to behold.

None the less, when you admire a band like the Stones as much as I do, you pretty much need to have everything that is out there, and this tour is one installment in an unprecedented five-decades-long legacy. This band has definitely been the "soundtrack for my life," and I love them despite their eccentricities.  I think it is worth having this DVD despite Mick behaving and dressing in such a cringe-worthy manner.