As a huge fan of the original Sleepaway Camp, I waited over three years for this movie to be released while it was in post-production. The movie itself did not disappoint. It had the suspense of the original, the usual gags and comedy, and just enough camp (no pun intended) to keep it from being overly cheezy. I own all three previous movies, but did not really like the second and third installments due to the lack of suspense. I never liked the way it was turned in to a comedy-horror. I also did not like the fact that you knew who the killer was immediately, like the later Friday the 13th sequels. This movies goes back to the formula used in the original Sleepaway Camp movie, as well as the first five Fridays, the original Black Christmas, Happy Birthday to Me, and many others. It uses the "camera as the killer" technique where all you see are some hands, feet and the occasional silouette. I find this technique much more suspenseful and terrifying than knowing who the killer is all along. Without spoiling the ending for anyone, I will say that I understand why the killer had to be disguised throughout the movie. They even kept his/her name out of the credits until the end to protect his/her identity.

I'm giving this movie four stars, instead of five for two reasons: (1) Alan was annoying and worse than the other characters. If the killer only targets bad kids, he should have been the first to go. He goes around whining about the way he is being treated when he is the one acting like a spoiled brat when he doesn't get his way. I guess he had to survive so he would appear to be the killer. (2) This was one of the worst scores I have ever heard in a horror movie! I could not hear anything the characters were saying with all of the loud symbols banging and horns blowing. At first, I thought it was just mixed badly. I tried turning on the subtitles to read what they were saying in some scenes, but these were only available in Spanish in which I am not fluent. Finally, I had to keep rewinding the scenes to listen more closely. At this point, I've seen the movie so many times I know what they are saying, but this was really annoying for the first couple of viewings. I'm surprised no one else has mentioned this in the other reviews, or at least the ones I've read.

The bottom line is Return to Sleepaway Camp is not quite as good as the original, but it is much better than the second and third installments. Whether you are a fan of the original or someone just discovering the films, you should not be disappointed. I only hope someone else will be hired to compose the music on the proposed "Sleepaway Camp Reunion."