If you like gangster flicks, especially of the Cockney 'firm' variety, then you need to see this movie. SEXY BEAST is a fantastic but underrated indie classic. Like some of the other reviewers, I could watch this movie over and over again.

Gal Dove (Ray Winstone) is a retired London mobster now living in Spain, going to fat in idyllic bliss with his former porn actress wife Dee Dee (Amanda Redman) and their best friends, a married couple they've known from when they were back in the life. Into their domestic paradise enters Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), another 'old friend,' showing up unannounced, telling Gal he has a job for him and "No is not an answer."

Logan is one of those small wiry guys who make up for what they lack in height and muscle with an extra dose of psychotic meanness. Crime boss Teddy Bass (excellently played with menacing reticence by Ian McShane) is planning an ambitious heist on a prestigious bank, Logan is to help assemble the crew. Logan wants Gal in on the job and, as far as he's concerned, he's already made Gal's mind up for him. For Logan it is only a matter of how little stroking he will need to do before he strikes.

In one scene, it's late and everyone is in bed, except Logan who is in the bathroom shaving. Standing in front of the mirror he starts thinking about Gal's refusal earlier in the evening. He begins muttering. Needing to relieve himself, he continues thinking and muttering as he urinates all over the floor. By now, having worked himself up into a rage, he runs out the bathroom with shaving cream still on his face, down the hall and, screaming "No! No! No!" storms into Gal and Dee Dee's bedroom kicking and punching the poor man out of his own bed.

Another scene in the movie shows Logan sitting on a plane which will soon depart. Thinking nothing of consideration for fellow passengers, or rules and regulations, he lights up a cigarette. When one of the passengers mildly protests, Logan calmly but coldly informs the man that if he must put out the cigarette, he will be putting it out on him. When a flight attendant intervenes, Logan gets up, grabs his bag and --after telling all onboard he hopes the plane crashes and they all die-- demands to get off. After being removed and brought to airport security, Logan explains to the security officer the incident was all a case of nerves. He concocts a tale about a male flight attendant groping him while boarding! With a straight face, he tells the man that he felt violated and was literally in shock, not even realizing he was smoking a cigarette! Of course, he doesn't wish to make a fuss about any of it and would just like to leave and forget the whole thing.

He walks out the airport, right into a taxi and back to making Gal's life hell. I couldn't stop laughing!

Ben Kingsley does for SEXY BEAST what Joe Pesci did for GOODFELLAS. Both portray sociopaths, incapable of true consideration and comapassion. The way they selfishly crash through life is so disturbing it's comes off comical.

Not giving too much of the story away, but Gal does return to London to do the job. However, not for the reasons you might think. Instead, something occurs which makes Gal feel it necessary to get to London, complete the job and return to Spain quickly as possible. Ian McShane is brilliant in this final segment of the film.