Tom & Jerry Golden Collection Volume 1

Distributor: Warner Home video (US)

Ask most 30 some-things to name a favourite cartoon from their childhood and the top 2 results would almost certainly be Tom & Jerry and Looney Tunes.

T&J were busy entertaining children the world over for countless years until the world eventually changed and became infused with modern day political correctness, thus branding our favourite cat and mouse team as  no longer suitable for the modern day audiences and forcing cuts to the classic programs which rendered the original animations shades of their former selves.

Released across various media from video to DVD,  the Tom & Jerry animations have long been on  collectors most wanted lists to see them finally released complete in their full original uncensored glory. This eventually resulted in a special edition DVD set which would supposedly mark the first uncut presentation in years. The DVDs however were not without issues. With early volumes having incorrect censored cartoons pressed onto the discs and the final volume missing two cartoons in their entirety, all hope of collectors finally having the versions they so cherished from their childhoods seemed lost. Thankfully Warner Home Video have got it right this time around with a brand new HD Blu-ray release which at last presents 37 early classic animations, fully uncensored in their original full length versions.

Presented in their original 1.33:1 aspect ratio, the animations look altogether excellent in their newly remastered 1080p transfers. Some print damage such as scratches and dust remain throughout the presentation, however this only adds to the nostalgia and the detail and colours are visually impressive, bringing a new depth to the shorts.

Audio is presented in a Dolby Digital 1.0 track which sounds exactly as it should considering the content is actually 70 year old cartoons. Music and occasional dialogue sound clear, leaving no real complaint on the audio front.

Extras are reasonably well represented with 9 of the classic toons having accompanying commentary tracks. Next up are a handful of documentaries/featurettes discussing different aspects relating to the history of Tom & Jerry themselves, followed by pencil test footage and finally a video of Jerry dancing with  Gene Kelly taken from the film Anchors Aweigh

All things considered, this region free Blu-ray set makes a fantastic first HD venture into the Tom & Jerry archives. The toons are presented as they should be which although may displease the moral majority, means that they are now complete with their heart and soul intact which is ultimately what kept them alive for over 70 years in the memories of their legions of fans worldwide. Should further volumes continue to follow suit, then the Tom & Jerry Blu-ray library will prove to be the ultimate set for the collector and serve as an essential time piece of history for a period long since remembered.