I have now seen the film four times including twice on it's original run over 25 years ago and all I can say is that see it and judge for yourself - you will be pleasantly surprised.  Apart from the first 20 minute sequence which tries to create a mood of halcyon days but fails somewhat, the rest of this beautiful film (and it is stunning visually) ranks alongside many other westerns favoured and promoted by the same critics who maligned this one.  In fact, it presents a far truer picture of 'how the west was won' and shows how the social, economic and political factors mainly determined by greedy easterners were manipulated to their own ends although this is my own opinion as this elegiac western is actually ambiguous in pointing blame and much of the morality is anything but  black and white.  It does, however, clearly show how the stockholders were more than willing take advantage of their status, class and wealth to bend the law and even redefine it to achieve their objectives.  So not much has changed in the last 100 odd years then since the events of the film.

Kristofferson, Walken and Huppert get the most screen time, individually and in pairs, but the rest of the cast is top notch too and both Waterston and Bridges shine in their smaller roles.

As I stated above the film is visually stunning thanks to Vilmos Zsigmond,  but the emphasis is firmly on the story and characterisation.  Although "Heaven's Gate" is nearly four hours long, it never feels like it and once you are immersed in the story and visuals the picture never wants for pace.  The music is not overblown but actually plays a part in setting the mood more so than being suggestive of what emotions we should be feeling and being relentless as in most modern epics.  Musical highlights include  when Ella first drives the Studebaker carriage, the picnic and later during the roller derby line dance sequence.

There is much to enjoy in this fine film and I can honestly say that what the establishment critics said at the time of the film's initial release is unfounded and unfair and reeks of a witch hunt.

If you have a multi-region dvd player, I suggest you seek out the Region 4 version (Australia) as it is anamorphic.