Oh, the Black Hole...what can I say about this film. I have real love/hate relationship with the film. I first saw it in '79, at age 15, and at the time it both thrilled and embarassed me. Kudos goes to Elleshaw and his production design. The U.S.S. CYGNUS is probably the most beautiful (if not exotic and impropable) space craft design ever put on film. The acting in the film was a strange cross between wooden (Robert Forster) to well overblown (Max Schell), the rest of the cast seems to fall somewhere in the middle. Ironically, the robot most reviewers disliked the most, VINC.E.N.T.(Roddy McDowell), steals the show in my opinion. The writers gave him the best lines in the picture. It is unfortunate that the filmmakers and Disney chose to do a Star Wars retread, instead of really putting out a great and unique story. Too bad. What saves The Black Hole from becoming one of those films that you soon forget existed after you've seen it once is the score. John Barry is the single most reason I have fond memories of watching this film. He gives this "little" popcorn picture such a sweeping grand score that sometimes I feel he meant it for a bigger, better motion picture.  I still love this film in many ways, it can be very funny and well thought out in small areas of the story. It fails terribly in science though. The dipiction of the black hole is inaccurate (at least to current theories), that "drain" hole look to it would only take place if the hole was syphoning material from a nearby star, it would form a ring around the black hole called an Accretion disk. Another flop in the science within the film is a scene near the end, when a crushed Cygnus is falling towards the black hole, the Palomino's surviving crewmembers actually crawl along the outside of the ship--WITHOUT WEARING PROTECTIVE SPACE GEAR!! I think that scene may have came from a weird theory that I recall reading about black hole's that may contain some sort of atmosphere around them or something to that effect. Still, despite the convoluted screenplay, dull acting and bizarre ending (was that Earth our heroes were heading to after emerging back to normal space or another unexplored planet?), the movie will alway possess a warm, comfortable spot in my heart and memories.