Ferris Bueller's Day Off

Today Mathew Broderick is setting record-breaking ticket sales on Broadway for his performance in the highly acclaimed hit The Producers, myself and a few others will always remember him as the kid who could not be caught, the inspiration to any teen in high school, the icon, the one the only, Ferris Bueller! I know... a little too dramatic. It just goes to show that John Hughes in his prime is to this day the most inventive writer and director of teen comedies, and even though the generation has passed, his films, especially this one will live forever.

Ferris Bueller (Mathew Broderick) is an innocuous fast talker; he knows how to handle every situation that is thrown at him. One school morning he fakes an illness convincingly to his loving but simple-minded parents and convinces them to let him stay home. He enlist the help of his hypochondriac best friend Cameron, (Alan Ruck) working together they con their high school principle Ed Rooney (Jeffery Jones) into excusing Ferris's girlfriend Sloane (Mia Sara) from class. The three of them, plus a priceless Ferrari, which happens to be owned by Cameron's short-tempered father, embark on a downtown Chicago adventure.

We come to realize that Ferris, Sloane, and Cameron might not get away with playing hooky. Ferris's sister, Jeanie (Jennifer Grey), is determined to prove that Ferris is faking sick and make him pay for it, while Rooney does not want his reputation tarnished, he knows that Ferris has got something up his sleeve. What we get is a hilarious comedy that is well acted, well written, and confidently directed.

What is remembered in this story is the characters; they all have personalities that every person can identify with, the "know it all" teen, the uptight friend, the angry sister, the simple-minded parents, and the incompetent but determined principle. All the characters are complete opposites and Hughes compounds each element of personality real well. The writing is certainly not forgettable; it is still quoted today in high schools especially during role call. " Bueller...Bueller...Bueller?"

What happens to the audience is that a form of sophistical pleasure evolves from the film; they know it's wrong what Ferris is doing, but they can't help themselves laugh in what he is accomplishing. This credits to good filmmaking, and any age group can enjoy Ferris Bueller's day off. No matter if you're 12 or 60 this story will affect you in someway, and most of the audience will see it differently just like the characters in the film.

In today's teen comedies, teenagers are likely getting drunk, breaking laws, or doing wrong things with pies. What emerges in Ferris Bueller's day off is a hilarious plus emotional experience about life, watch carefully the surprising scene of Cameron's character going through a phase where he has to prove that he stands for something, also from the scene is typical John Hughes humor that is blended perfectly. Hughes proves that teen comedies don't have to be idiotic.