Though the humor is perhaps not for everybody, most will love the wacky take-off on the Beatles legend.  Eric Idle, of Monty Python, a self-confessed Beatle fan, put this film together in the late 1970's as a mocu-mentary, and it may be one of the first ever made.  As such, it is the forefather of movies such as 'This is Spinal Tap' and 'Borat'.

What makes this movie so much fun is that it lambastes the Beatles from beginning to end without trashing them.  The movie takes a layer of patina off the Beatles' near-godlike status without tarnishing their legacy.  George Harrison liked the movie so much he has a part in it. Ringo liked most of it, and John Lennon and Yoko Ono, always enthusiastic about avante-guarde projects even at their own expense, were said to love it, even though Ono's character is supposedly the daughter of Adolf Hitler.  Of course, McCartney wasn't big on it, but he probably had a problem with his portrayal as overly-precious and doe-eyed.

Particularly hilarious are cameo appearances in mock interviews by Mick Jagger and Ron Wood of the Stones and Paul Simon.  Bill Murray is over-the-top funny as Murray the K. The out-takes of Mick Jaggar are hilarious, as he forgets where the fictional Rutles are from (Rutland) and makes some other unusable comments about the Rutles' sex lives.

The Rutles themselves look nothing like the Beatles, which is in itself funny.  In fact, one of them looks like he's of East Indian extraction (though maybe this was intentional as he plays the George-like character).  But the actor who plays the John Lennon character was also a top musician/composer, and he wrote songs that are so Beatle-esque that it's uncanny.  The songs are all take-offs on actual Beatles songs, but with slightly altered melodies and satirically-altered lyrics.

Filmed on location in England and the United States, the scenes take us through the career of the Rutles, from the jerky black and white images of the Ratskeller to the appearance on Ed Sullivan and on into their wierd psych stage.  Even the rooftop concert is parodied.  The locations, outfits, hairstyles, even the sounds are right-on.

The new DVD has the extra bonus of voice-over commentary by Eric Idle, out-takes, stills, Idle's take on the making of the film, and the viewer is even able to listen to each individual Rutles song singly.

Hugely enjoyable for any Beatles fan.  You do not want to leave this piece of Beatles satirical history out of your collection.

Five stars all the way.