Those of us who review films on sites like this often feel (or at least I imagine we do) that we should be awarding five stars to movies we think are all-time classics, like Bresson's "Pickpocket" or Godard's  "Le Mepris".  And yet, when we look into our hearts and ask  ourselves what films we'd actually like to pull out and watch of an  evening, we (or at least I) tend to find that the films we really love are  of quite a different kidney.  Like this one.
I went to see this in the  cinema with my quondam girlfriend when we were both in a bad mood and  suffering from various non-relationship-related troubles.  We walked out a  couple of hours later feeling cleansed, relaxed, happy and just that bit  much more in love with each other.  You wouldn't think that a romantic  comedy about a professional killer could have that effect on people, but it  can.  I (we) am (are) living proof.
This film masquerades as a cool, flip  comedy about Martin Blank (Cusack), dead-eyed hitman, and his return to his  home town for his high school reunion, during which he meets the former  love of his life, Debi Newberry (Driver).  It's actually a  military-industrial grade stress-test of the human capacity for love and  renewal.  The comedy arises from that late-twenties feeling that you wish  you could return to your past with a genuine sense that you've done  something amazing in the meantime.  Martin actually has, in that he's  killed loads of people.  Throughout the film, Cusack is constantly  informing people that he's a professional killer, and they refuse to  believe him.  He struggles towards some sort of budget-priced redemption  whilst being trailed by a psychopathic Basque terrorist (named La Poubelle,  which means "dustbin" for non-French-speakers), two bumbling  government spooks and an even more amoral rival hitman (Dan Aykroyd in  sleaziest form).  It's more than just a comedy, and I'm aware that I'm  coming across as a Kevin Smith character here - it's a work of blooming  art.  
Confession: an American friend of mine worked in John Cusack's  theatre company New Crime so I am perhaps biased in favour of this  effortlessly hippest and sharpest of actors.  But when you look at the 80s  teen comedies that he helped to carry, they stand up quite a bit better  than many of the other ones out at the time; and he continues to be  involved in class stuff.  More power to him.  
Riddled with  oh-so-nostalgic 80s hits (nostalgic at least for those of us who grew up  during that uniquely repellent decade), there isn't a single minor  character who isn't beautifully sketched.  The cast is fantastic (Minnie  Driver is as luscious as ever and is thoroughly convincing for such a nice  English girl, Joan Cusack is wonderfully droll as her real-life brother's  worried secretary, Jeremy Piven is a splendid sidekick and Alan Arkin does  a lovely turn as Martin's terrified shrink) and the dialogue is as crisp as  fresh lettuce.  The only slight problem is a broad range of sound level;  it's hard to catch every line unless you turn the volume up really loud.  But otherwise, a fab movie, and George Armitage's best work since the  notably funky "Miami Blues", which is one of the few films  (besides "Glengarry Glen Ross") to unleash the malevolent genius  of Alec Baldwin.  Watch it with a partner, a bottle of good Scotch (if you  happen to indulge) and a prestige snack of your choosing.