What happens when people stop being polite, and start getting real? These questions used to mean something in the mid-90s when MTV turned the cameras on for their long-running show "The Real World." Unscripted reality TV has come a long way since then, but at a price: Instead of being polite and getting real, most people do the exact opposite once the cameras roll.

Enter Borat.

The brainchild of comedian Sasha Baron Cohen, Borat's a character that most Americans are now familiar with. No description does him justice; this is a guy you truly have to see to believe. Now a household name, many people don't know this character from his "Ali G Show" roots. Alongside Ali G (the wannabe gangster from low-city Staines) and Bruno (the flamboyant Austrian fashion reporter), Borat stands as the funniest of Cohen's alter-egos.

I think people dig too deep into this movie. Many believe it exposes a dark side of America -- the side housing southern racists, machoist frat boys, and big-tent evangelists. While those people ARE out there (I know a good number of them personally), I think this movie is more an example of Cohen and director Larry Charles finding the right ones at the right time. On camera, it's clear that Borat is leading the subjects into their radical statements. I found Borat's own lines ("What kind of dog is this?") to be a lot funnier than the people he interviewed.

Is the movie funny? Hell yes. Borat's style of comedy is very similar to Tom Green (weird interviews and physical slapstick), with a bit of early Jay Leno "Jaywalking." Though the character is clearly Cohen's own making, I think the movie's grand scope was crafted very well by Larry Charles (whose other work includes some of the best "Seinfeld" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" episodes).

It's clear this movie had a ton of cut footage. I was hoping that would lead to a huge multi-disc DVD release, with bonus footage that (for once) would actually be worth watching. The single-disc release we got does have quite a few funny bonuses, I think they held back for some reason. I also would have loved to hear an audio commentary track with Cohen and Charles. I guess I'm not complaining, though... this is a solid set as it is.

It doesn't look like there's any deluxe set of Borat the DVD horizon, so this release is a must-have. Buy it and see why 2006 was one of U.S. cinema's best years ever.