Plot -

Doris is a teenage girl that has no friends, and is unpopular at her school. She found out she wasn't invented to the big party that her sister Lauri was invented to. So, Doris comes home to watch her favorite TV show, "Fat Albert". She was crying, and a teardrop fell into the remote control, making a portal into Doris's room. Fat Albert and the gang go right through the portal because she was crying, and Fat Albert is all about solving problems. And now, Fat Albert learns to adapt to the "real world". Everyone thinks Fat Albert and his friends are "weirdos". Doris tells Fat Albert and his friends that she doesn't have a problem, but Doris has them follow along anyway. Doris brings them to school, making Doris feel uncomfortable and embarrassed. That is where Albert meets Lauri, and Albert thinks she was cute. Laura's boyfriends notices this, and makes many attempts so Laura doesn't like Albert back, but he fails completely. Then, Albert finds Bill Cosby. Bill says that if he doesn't go back into the TV, he will turn into dust.

Will Albert stay with his love Lauri and turn into dust, or will he go back into the TV?

Pros -

This movie actually made me giggle a few times. Not laugh, but I did do some light giggling, mostly when Albert and his friends are just arriving into the real world, wondering what a bra is and what a phone is. I found the characters to be delightful, and funny (read above). And how unique each individual character is. The climax question may be a little dull, considering yes, there are a lot of similar movies. But it's the fact that the question is presented in a different way. It's good that this movie comes with optional widescreen and fullscreen. Though, I'm not going to talk much about that, because some of you don't even have a DVD player.

Cons -

One thing that you will notice, just from reading the plot, that characters are flying everywhere. You'll notice every ten minutes, there will be a new character introduced. It's very hard to understand when a movie is like this because it leaves out some of their qualities. Sometimes, I didn't even get the character's name. Another thing, is the fact that it's rated PG. It does feature some moments that (or as I think) shouldn't be suitable for childern. Like the bra scene that I giggled about, when one of Albert's friends (once again character development problems) was looking at a undershirt, which had breasts cups on it, and other people shopping were starring at it. Ok, some people think it's kinda funny, and others may think it's downright wrong, but we all have to agree that this is not good for childern. Other scenes have this same problem. One little thing, it just kind of bothers me that at the beginning of the movie, they show a minute clip about piracy. I don't do any piracy at all, I just found this to be quite distracting, and a little rude. I think it was enough to put two things about it on the DVD case. I know piracy is wrong, but a minute clip before the film is too much. Do you listen to a CD and track 1 is about piracy? Didn't think so. Though, that just a very minor con, and it doesn't bother me, just disracting.

BOTTOMLINE: "Fat Albert" is a heart-warming and funny family film. It does need a PG sticker, but still, childern above 10 will be okay, and I can guarantee there will be a lot of giggles, and maybe even a laugh or two.