This has to be, hands down, the best sequel ever made in motion picture history, possibly even the best film ever made. Without a doubt, it beats any modern-day new release. I would venture to say that this film surpasses the original, but this is my opinion. This film is more dramatic than the first, and perhaps that is what appeals to my sensibilities (and others').

This movie may be a little bit harder to follow than the first, but this is not a disappointment. This is something that grabs you and pulls you in (don't even think of getting out). A few viewings will solidify its classic status in your heart. The Vito/Michael Corleone trade-off scenes show parallels and contrasts between the two Dons' rise to power. The formations and unravelling of loyalty and power are revealed as the scenes trade off. This is magical.

Hopefully, I won't give too much away by mentioning the most memorable elements of the most memorable scenes. Who can forget when the Corleone family shamed Frankie "Five Angels" Pentangeli back into loyalty and omerta at the senate hearing by bringing his brother in from Sicily? Who can forget when Senator Pat Geary, while with a favorite prostitute, was framed for murder, ensuring his cooperation with "the family" lest political scandal? Who can forget the Sicilian affection shared by Michael and Fredo at the New Year's Eve ball in Havana, Cuba (i.e. kiss of death, followed by the unforgettable line, "I know it was you, Fredo. You broke my heart. You broke my heart!")? Who can forget Al Pacino's incomparable performance in, among other scenes, his argument scene with Diane Keaton (note: his trembling face deserved at least two Oscars!)? Who can forget the closing scene of Michael's dispair in realization of his own destiny?

The musical score is unforgettable, no doubt about it. You may even catch yourself walking around, humming some of these haunting melodies. The acting is unparalleled. Kudos to Gazzo, Shire, Strasberg, DeNiro, and others. This is Pacino's finest acting, in my opinion. At the expense of conciseness, I have to give credit to the late John Cazale for his talent as well. I don't think anyone could reproduce the guilt in Fredo's eyes as he sits in the Cuban cafe with his brother, Michael (watch it, and you'll know what I mean).

Clearly by the end of the film, Michael is consumed by empire, power, etc. as he confides to Tom Hagen the necessity of killing all enemies. The process of decline takes its toll on the Don, revealing the drama that is The Godfather Part II (note: this is why Michael, with twinges of paranoia, treats Tom Hagen like crap towards the end--- because he anticipates Hagen's betrayal). This movie shows what happens when Michael begins to lose all that he loves and has built up by legitimate or illegitimate means as a consequence of his illegitimacy. All lines between personal and business are blurred by the close of the film.

In closing, it is probably inappropriate, as I've read in one review posted here, to refer to The Godfather Part II as a sequel or even a prequel/sequel. It can be said that it is two movies within a movie. Nonetheless, as one of the best movies ever made, it holds its own. Beware, though: the final scenes will "break your heart," as the Corleone family's powerful "Sicilian thing" falls apart in more ways than one. But do yourself a favor and buy this, and don't worry about having to return anything to the Don. Capice paesano? Enjoy!