Thousands of them in fact. Lucky for me, I only LOOK like an egghead.
 Those looking for explanation, riddles and conundrums concerning "the meaning of life"; "the essence of reality", "being in the moment"; etc., need look no further. Alphaville is a master's masterwork. Deeper than a black hole, with more undercurrent than the ocean itself.
 Beneath all the analogies and metaphors there's certain to be a parable somewhere.
 Instead of merely trying some pompous, lame-brained, "I'm smarter than this Godard fellow, here's what he was saying" exercise in intellectual masturbation, I will simply encourage you to view the film itself, preferrably in a quiet, uninterrupted atmosphere with a few puffs of choice herb. (&lt;--sure to attract a few negative votes from the petty bourgeoisie lol)
 I would reckon nearly 90 percent of folks picked at random and given the chance to watch Alphaville would shut it off within the first twenty minutes. Some when they saw that it was in black and white, others when, to their disgust, they discovered that it was in French. Two percent would want to continue watching, as the show seemed to promise a bit of uncovered flesh, but would be bitterly dissuaded by the aggravating words and letters which kept constantly appearing at the bottom of the screen. Six of the remaining eight percent would watch the whole thing through, proclaiming afterword that it was indeed a "good" movie, or even "kick-ahss", but, in reality, coming away from the experience totally at a loss about the meaning of what they had just seen. The remaining two eggheads would be left to argue it out amongst themselves in alternating tones of subtle diplomacy and vehement outburst-- leaving the pure, unadulterated genius of the thing to evaporate into the cold, uncaring air of planet earth.

Observations:

a. I was pleasantly bemused, as only an American (albeit it a rare one) could be, to watch a New York character speaking French. Usually, those of us on this side of the pond get to see it the other way around, espeacially in blockbusters where you don't want the audience to have to waste their precious faculties having to decipher the subtitles.

b. How prescient a movie was this? Unbelievably so, I say with more than a little regret. Godard must've certainly twisted a few lids off back in the day, although I wouldn't doubt if his detractors were far more numerous. "A species that only appreciates its dead", to paraphrase Galeano. To some of you this is well-documented turf I tread, but don't forget, I never went to film school. The most intellectual stimulation I've had in quite some time has been trying to converse with the Mexicans they've brought in to sort the rubbish out of the potato line down on the corporate farm. (So far it hasn't been much more than going over by them and saying something like, "pinchy gringos!" while pointing at the bosses and snickering. They get a kick out of that.)

c. Fascism as a machine, a computer no less! People unable to even walk upright once the machine was crippled, their every thought and idea so closely connected and dependant on their mechanical overlord as to render them mere moving vegetables or even dead.

d. On a little aside; I discovered that the role of Lemmy Caution, hard-ahssed American agent, was one that Eddie Constantine had been playing in numerous French films prior to Alphaville. Interesting that this was in many ways a sequel to a string of films based on books by Peter Cheney, yet the movie itself defies any notion that it could possibly be a sequel, or prequel for that matter, to anything!

So profound, so profound! Mucho profoundo! Excellante! Watch it, just watch it. I know, I know, judging by the dvd cover it looks like an unbearable bore, but trust me-- if you're looking for something MORE...