I went to my local theater last night and found that, unless I wanted to wait another hour, I only had two options: BEST IN SHOW or a film about little kids during the Holocaust.  After reading the dreary synopsis of the Holocaust movie, I needed a laugh so BEST IN SHOW won out by default.  I had heard a couple of glowing reviews so I anticipated laughing 'til I peed my pants.
  The best I can say about this film is that it is relatively entertaining (in a way I hadn't expected), but chockful of big yuks it's not.  In fact, I can recall only a half-dozen or so decent laughs.  None of it came close to leaving me rolling in the aisle.  Christopher Guest's satirical humor appears to be one of those acquired tastes that makes only certain people roar with laughter and is definitely NOT what most folks think of as situational comedy. 
  Guest's film is an ersatz documentary that focuses primarily on several hopeful dog owners who have entered their prize-winning purebreds in The Mayflower, a fictional granddaddy of all dog shows held in Philadelphia.  The featured contenders run the gamut:  
There's a wealthy, foppish gay couple and one of their two Shih Tzus.
  There's a heavily made-up gold-digger and her butch poodle handler (the gold-digger's first interview is the funniest part of the whole movie).  
Parker Posey is fantastic as the "better" half of an ill-matched wannabe yuppie couple with major Type-A personalities and a Weimaraner that harbors dubious hostility toward her owners' equally dubious sexual escapades.  
Another team is comprised of a hopeless geek, his blowsy wife (a formerly libidinous former barfly played by the amazing Catherine O'Hara) and a terrier from suburban Florida.  
And, finally, there's a gentle yokel from the South (played endearingly by Guest himself) and his beautiful bloodhound.  
Throw in the dog show organizer, the hotel manager (Ed Begley, who did an excellent job with a small role) and a stupid, annoying, loudmouth color commentator (played by Fred Willard) and you've pretty much got the cast. According to Roger Ebert, Willard "steals the show."  He did no such thing.  In fact, he's the main reason NOT to watch this movie.  He was the polar opposite of funny.  "Corny" is about generous as I can be.  
With that notable exception aside, what BEST IN SHOW lacks in laughs is more than made up for by the characterizations impressively fleshed out by Guest and his stars.  The rabid regulars on the dog show circuit were entirely believable, particularly with regard to the naivete of their dialogue and their interaction among friends, family and the competition.  
At times, the whole scenario was reminiscent of the cheap notoriety and common vulgarity that pervades those behind-the-scenes looks at little girls' beauty pageants, replete with stressed out stage moms and the self-imposed pre-show pressure that verges on abuse.  It was this aspect of the film -- the big fish in a little pond -- that earned my conditional respect.  
The dry wit of BEST IN SHOW is often mildly amusing, but it's inconsistent and that left quite a few boring, sometimes annoying, lulls in my interest.  Contrarily, this movie surprises with other mostly positive attributes that a select audience might find appealing enough to make it worth renting.