So I watched this film after hearing multiple reviews describing how each party in the film is sympathetic. Suffice it to say either these reviewers are seriously removed from reality or I'm really out of touch with the American public.

In the film Connelly's character is supposed to be sympethetic. Are you kidding me?!?! She inherits a house and then manages to lose it in a matter of months because she lacks any sense of personal responsibility and choses to ignore a stack of letters from the government. She is also apparently destitute which I find hard to believe since she has doesn't have any rent/mortgage payments. Even on a housecleaners earnings she should have had no problem resolving her tax issue. She then decides to make things worse by lying to her family in order to save face rather than coming clean and asking for help. Sorry but I find nothing sympathetic about her character. Her characters brings suffering and grief on an innocent family and we're expected to feel sorry for HER?? No dice. Her character is pathetic - not sympathetic. I guess we're supposed to feel sorrow for her because she's beautiful and in America being good looking entitles you to not have to be accountable for your actions.

The film also glosses over the history of Kingsley's character. All we know is that he was a powerful member of the Shah's military in pre-revolutionary Iran. Anyone who knows the history of Iran can figure out that this means there's a good chance his character was probably responsible for some truly evil acts against innocent people. However, it's a safe bet that 99% of the people who see this film are utterly clueless to the history of Iran. That's too bad. Had the subject of his background been pursued in the film his character may not have seemed so innocent. Instead the film gives only minor glimpses that Kingsley's character might be more than just a proud, hard-working immigrant trying to save face among his family.

Had the film gone deeper in the past of Kingsley's character we could have had a very different film in which 2 parties - neither of which is terribly sympathetic - are engaged in a moral dilemma trying to do what is "right" and also trying to escape past evils in their lives: Connelly trying to escape a past filled with irresponsibility and substance abuse, Kingsley trying to escape a past as a brutal thug working for a dictator. This could have made for a much more compelling film. I suspect a good chunk of the story wound up on the cutting room floor. After all, in Hollywood it's much more important to show Connelly naked than it is to delve into the background of a major character! I'm sure this was a much better film before the final cut.

Both Connelly and Kinglsey deliver amazing performances which should come as no surprise. I just have a hard time understanding why people find her character so sympathetic and wish the script had been more complete in exploring the backgrounds of the main characters.