David Mamet's version of "The Winslow Boy" quite fails to understand Terence Rattigan's play, from which the film is derived.  The film is glued to a one-dimensional stereotype of pre-World War I English behavior, decorous and emotionally suppressed, which defeats the drama at every turn.  
The play, on the contrary, is not a period piece.  It portrays the agony, humiliation, disbelief, indifference, anger, confusion, determination, persistence, idealism, sacrifice, protective love, cynicism, and fear with which a boy's nearest and dearest react to his expulsion from naval cadet school, and the crusade to vindicate him.  Their language may be more refined and their emotional expression more controlled than often occurs, but within these limits the range and conflict are substantial.
By combining his stereotype with extensive deletions, Mamet cuts off his characters at the knees, if not higher.  The father's determination and persistence remain, but most of his tendency to dominate and humiliate is gone.  The sister's intelligence, loyalty and tact are there, but not the poignant depth of her love and vulnerability.  We see the mother's protective love, but not the formidable passion of her attack against the crusade.  
The original play feeds the intellect by raising questions about the boy's innocence, and about the worth of the crusade in his behalf; contrary opinions are not merely stated, but supported with cogent reasons.  It feeds the soul by raising the banner of doing Right, and facing the substantial sacrifices along the way.  It feeds the heart by showing the deep and vulnerable love of a father for his son, of a mother for her family, of a daughter for her fiance, of a family friend for the daughter.  All this food is on short ration in Mamet's remake.
Rattigan has a fine dramatic sense, which Mamet often spoils.  Watch, for example, what should be the most striking scene of the story, a cross-examination of the Winslow boy in the family parlor. England's best trial lawyer is deciding whether to take the case.  In the original, the questioning starts quietly but builds to an aggressive harshness that has the boy muddled and crying, and the family angry and alarmed.  Whereupon the lawyer, to everyone's surprise, accepts the case, calling the boy "plainly innocent."  Mamet doesn't cut the text in this scene, but he does cut way back on the lawyer's aggressiveness and the boy's distress.  The dramatic excitement of the original, based on powerful emotional reversals, is mostly lost in the remake.
Within the limits of the Mamet stereotype, Nigel Hawthorne as the father and Jeremy Northam as the lawyer are interesting and pleasant to watch.  The rest of the cast is not memorable.