I read all these great reviews about this movie... and I gotta tell you guys, I graduated from Hammond in 1968... and the white kids in this movie were not culturally anything like Hammond kids. I've discussed it with classmates and we all agree this movie was pure FAKE hogwash. First of all, I knew everybody at least a little at Hammond and I never heard ANY southern accents. We were children of Washington DC government workers, military kids, etc. Second, the movie was filmed in Georgia!!!! Northern Virginia simply does not relate to southern culture and southern racism at ALL! If this event HAD taken place in Georgia back then (which it didn't), it would have been very very violent and the coach Boone would have been .... There were problems at the time but it was more about the resentment of the CLOSING of our school... but that would have happened anywhere even if it involved all white or all black kids... we weren't southern racists as this movie portrayed... I will say it is accurate that Hammond and GW kids ended up "getting along"... but that was BECAUSE we weren't racist rather in spite of that... why did they choose to make the film in Georgia rather than say Pennsylvania which was closer to us culturally? Sensationalism... yes, we were residents of Virginia, but Northern Virginia is culturally dissimilar as night and day to southern Virginia. I got really ticked off by the southern racist restaurant owner... he was definitely straight out of Georgia where the film was made ... we didn't have any restaurants like the dump they showed... YUK! we just wouldn't have walked into a place like that even if there were any sleezy places like that. I hate this movie for the lies... I feel it was manipulative, very typical of Hollywood sensationalism... for me it's a lie... and the producer and director are liars who used what happened falsely. The movie would have been very boring I suppose if they had told the truth... but they intentionally made up what they wanted to when they wanted to... the big question is why? If you lived in Alexandria back then and knew Coach Yoast, then he is the true hero of this movie... why? because Coach Yoast loved his kids so much he stuck around to help them give up their school AND he loved all kids black or white... he was a great educator... but we were not southern redneck hicks so don't give the South any credit here... we were from Northern and Midwestern states... southern Virginians resented us because we were intruding "Yankees". Some of us who went to Virginia universities later on had some real adjustments getting used to the southern Virginia kids... why? that's where the real cultural divide was at the time... ask anyone from Virginia and they'll tell you about the differences. Boy am I ticked off my school was portrayed the way it was... a bunch of hype!!!! I sure wish they had told the real story in at least half way a truthful manner... enjoy it for what it is FICTION... but never never think that it really happened.