Those of you who've read other reviews already know the plot. It won't be rehashed here.

I'd like to post some thoughts on this drama. Only one other reviewer has offered an alternate solution, viz., that Al is really a murderer who's giving us an unbelievable story. I quite agree with him.

Al's account of both deaths aren't believable; one death, while possible, is unlikely, while the other one is flat out ridiculous. It makes more sense to me that Al's trying to convince the audience with the tale he's planning to give to the police. I'm sorry, Al, but it won't do; I'd vote to convict you.

Al's account of Vera's character is very believable, though. One really has to see Ann Savage's portrayal of Vera to believe it. What an arch-*itch she is! Maybe the most evil woman to ever hit the screen. She'll make your skin crawl. The movie's worth buying just to see this performance, especially the scene in the car where she turns on him. Villany personified! It's easy to see why he "killed" her--if he  did. You decide.

A couple of plot holes exist. Vera tries to get Al into some money-making schemes that wouldn't really work, from a legal standpoint--even in 1945. Moreover, the first death (supposedly from natural causes [but not really]) would have easily been detected through an autopsy; the victim is seen taking what is presumably heart medication, which would have been found in the glove department.

One point nobody's pointed out: at the end, one isn't sure whether Al's actually being picked up by the police, or if he's just daydreaming/visualizing the scene where he's actually is. This isn't really a plot hole, though, merely an ambiguity.

An interesting tidbit: even in 1945, there were inspection stations in California--"Do you have fruits, vegetables, or livestock?" Another one--evidently, in those days, driver's licenses only contained a description, not a picture.

The print I saw on TCM is in very poor condition. The dialogue is sometimes inaudible. In some of the early scenes, the picture is badly blurred. A couple of times, definite signs of nitrate decomposition are noticed.(The print has those spots in the frame that are the sign of this decomposition; it looks like moldy cheese or something.) In the scene in the car, while Vera and Al are talking, frames and dialogue are actually missing. Presumably, those frames had decomposed too much to be used. It makes the viewer realize that, sadly, tons of films are in desperate need of restoration.

4 stars. I only docked one point for the poor quality of the print.

See the movie; you won't regret it.