I just want to express how ripped off I feel that after buying the entire season 6 of The Office the Halloween open is missing from the episode Koi Pond.  I hope that NBC and the creators/actors of The Office read this and realize how they are making their fans feel ripped off.  If they were going to remove it from the episode, they should have included it in the deleted scenes.  To make matters worse they included a still pic on the menu of Disc 2 just to remind us what we're missing.  I tried to see if maybe it was hidden as an Easter Egg but have had no luck.  Perhaps if everyone expressed how disappointed they were, Universal will create replacement discs.  We are paying for the ENTIRE season of The Office including DELETED and BONUS material.  I hate it when organizations complain and get "offended" by things thereby making it impossible for everyone else in the world to enjoy it.  I don't care if the American Society for Suicide Prevention was offended by a FICTIONAL character making an inappropriate joke.  Newsflash: the Michael Scott character's main purpose on the show is to make inappropriate jokes.  It's almost like they were just sitting around waiting to find something to be offended by so they could shove their cause down everyone's throat.  Seriously, if someone were actually going to kill themselves they would do it regardless of if they saw an episode of The Office or not.  And don't try to say someone might see it and then decide to kill themselves.  That's just stupid.  If by any means that were true, it would be a Darwin Award.  Why not stop there then?  Why not omit all the Erin scenes where she says she's been in foster care because that might be offensive to people who were in foster care?  Why not omit the Dwight character when he talks about his farm because that might be offensive to people who own farms?  Why not omit the episodes where Pam is pregnant before marriage because that might offend people who are against pre-marital sex?  You see where I'm going with this.  If every single comedian or comedy show adhered to trying not to offend people, there would never be anything on TV ever.  Do you think the creators of South Park care who they offend?  In fact, that's what makes the show funny.  Do you think Dave Chappelle decided not to certain skits because they might be "offensive" to people?  Seriously people if you work in comedy, it's a given you're eventually going to offend someone somewhere at sometime.  And for all those complainer or "offended" people out there.  You DON'T have to watch it.  Instead of ruining it for the rest of us with your griping, just let us enjoy our shows in peace.