I bought this movie because I was having a friend over, and we have a mutual interest in fantasies and fairy tales. Generally we can find *something* we like about it, but we couldn't even sit through this. I finished it later so I could review it, or else I would have just forgotten about it.

Whatever you do, DON'T FORGET that Julia Roberts is in this movie. Remember that Julia Roberts plays the "evil" queen. She is on the posters, the blu ray cover, and on every other post on the movie's Facebook page. From the time they first started marketing this to the end of the flick, they could not stop harping on her being the star. She got way too much screen time considering the plot (what there was of it), and I think they were counting on her star power to sell more tickets.

From the promotion, I thought I was going to at least get some good eye candy, and I did in the animated opening. Then they kept showing the queen in the same yellow dress. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00795C5X4">I've seen that tiara somewhere before.</a> You keep thinking it will get better, but it doesn't. The wardrobe at the queen's wedding was a bitter disappointment, and by the end I think they were digging things out of a recycle bin.

They must have blown the budget by the time they got to animating the lake and the beaver dam in Narnia. Every time Julia Roberts went there, they used the same sequence with her rising up from the water, and the exterior looked like something I could have rendered in Bryce about ten years ago.

The movie is just bad. Remember when it was cool to see a girl swordfight? Now it's just cheesy. They do this in a montage, too. I'm all for strong female protagonists, but they need to stop doing it at the expense of making the men into nothing but comedy fodder and complete fools.

The comedy isn't funny. I get that Julia Roberts' beauty treatments are gross, but I bet they didn't sell a lot of popcorn during that segment. Armie Hammer does his level best to play the bumbling prince, but they don't give him a lot to work with. He is capable of much more. It's hard to play a buffoon when they forgot the funny in the script.

It's a criminal misuse of Nathan Lane. Even Lane can't make this movie funny. I was SO looking forward to seeing him, and it was AGONIZING to watch that much talent wasted. THEN Sean Bean actually manages to chew the scenery when he finally shows up onscreen with the horrible dialogue he's given. It's like watching Ned Stark poof in out of nowhere, deliver a few super serious lines and then just stand around. (That's literally what he does, too.)

Lily Collins' song just doesn't fit with the movie. It looks like they made Sean Bean, Nathan Lane and Armie Hammer watch while they filmed it, too. It was bad enough watching it on screen; I can't imagine having to see and hear it live. You don't see Julia Roberts standing around, though, because she's the STAR, you know, in case you forgot.

I can't believe I almost gave it two stars-- for what? <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007HHSFBK">Alan Menken's score</a> is the only good thing about it, but you can get that separately. Don't waste your time or your money. It never gets any better than the opening sequence, and you'll be wishing you could forget it. I owe my friend an apology, but fortunately he forgot.