I had high-hopes for this movie when it came out in theatres. I was suspicious that the director and script writers might have traveled too far away from the book, as most movies based on books do quite often. But to my surprise, this movie stayed very close to the book.

If it had strayed from the book further, would it have still been a good movie? Perhaps so. But the book by J.K. Rowling was such a masterpiece, that this movie had a lot to live up to. By default, the expectations of every fan were very high.

And those expectations were rewarded! Not only did 'Goblet' stay close to the original story, but when it did add new elements, those elements helped the story along! For instance, the dragon chasing Harry for the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament was just astounding as far as suspense and visuals go! The CGI for the dragon was top-notch state-of-the-art! I was very pleased.

All the Tasks were done probably as best as they could have been done by the hands of directors and computer artists. So if you are looking for a movie that is entertaining, visually stunning, and captivating, then this is without a doubt a movie you would enjoy.

Where are some of the lower points of the movie?

The main nit-pick I have with this movie is the characterization of Dumbledore in one of the scenes. After Harry's name flew from the Goblet, all of Hogwarts was shocked and confused. Dumbledore actually grabs and pushes Harry, asking him if he put his name in the cup. This is understandable, since Dumbledore was concerned for Harry's safety and well-being, but if you have ever read the book you will know this is not how the character of Dumbledore would act in such a situation.

Another lower point, was the angst that Hermione exhibited near the end of the Yule Ball. Why exactly did she get mad at Ron? I don't know. I guess because Ron didn't support her in her 'fraternizing with the enemy.' However, the scene came off as a little too much. I think this was just overacting on Emma Watson's part.

On a last note, I will say this movie is better than the ones that came before it, in that it has a strong story, strong characters, very touching and heart-felt moments, and above all: adventure! I suggest this movie, preferably the DVD itself, as it has many bonus features that are worth watching.

This DVD is worth the money.