The story of two mismatched individuals meeting each other and, after trials and tribulations, overcoming their initial dislike of the other person only to fall in love is older than both the motion picture and modern literature.

With the DVD release of 20th Century Fox's romantic comedy "Just Married" however we are treated to a slight twist on the storyline. In this mundane and occasionally hilarious romp our two protagonists fall madly in love and throughout the course of the picture gradually fall out and end up careering through an airport lounge attempting to cause the other as much discomfort as possible.

Yes, not since the Griswold's turned the Old World on its head (and knocked over Stonehenge in the process) in "National Lampoons European Vacation" has the continent across the pond been so mistreated and abused by vacationing Americans. Current flavors of the month Ashton Kutcher (fresh off the success of "Dude, Where's My Car") and Brittany Murphy play two newlyweds that should have had the perfect romantic honeymoon in France and Italy but instead end up at each others throats and endure more

misfortune and mishaps than most couples could expect in a lifetime.

The vast majority of the picture is shown in flashback with the opening credits playing against the return of the duo from their European vacation and Kutcher's characters examination of what went wrong.

Kutcher plays decidedly blue collar Tom while Murphy tackles the role of the decidedly wealthy Sarah (her father is part owner of the Lakers and Dodgers). After a chance encounter on a beach they fall into a passionate affair and several months later announce their engagement to her suitably shocked (and disapproving parents). Will love conquer all? Well the answer may be obvious but the filmmakers still attempt to inject some doubt with the interruption of a persistent suitor, and the sheer magnitude of the hard luck stacked upon the couple through their first days of wedded "bliss".

The problem with the narrative however is that it is simply not funny enough. The trailer promised big belly laughs and instead all we are given in subdued chuckles. In fact if you have already seen the trailer the truth is that you have already seen the funniest parts of this movie.

Picture

The picture quality of Fox Home Entertainments DVD release is reasonably good with a nice 1.85:1 anamorphic widescreen transfer (and a full frame version on the flip-side). Although dark in parts and soft the colors are well defined and appropriate. Although not particularly remarkable the video quality is adequate.

Audio

Also somewhat average is the audio on this DVD. Granted a new 5.1 Dolby Digital track by Fox one might expect it to be great (considering the standout work done by the studio on other recent releases) but instead it is simply standard. Still for fans of the soundtrack are treated to a decent surround mix.

Special features

The most distressing element of the special features is the fact that they are split over both sides of the disc. This results in having to get up and flip over the disc (and endure the copyright warnings) to fully appreciate the entire package being delivered by Fox Home Entertainment. The only feature offered on both sides is an optional audio commentary.

Participating in the audio commentary is Director Shawn Levy and stars Kutcher and Murphy. Obvious from this and other supplements the two Hollywood heart throbs fell in love both after the camera lights went out, as well as onscreen. As such most of the contributions provided on the audio commentary are delivered by Levy. For his part Kutcher is slightly dull and Murphy is, well, quiet. On the scale of other discs audio commentaries this one is a bit of a dud and truly only for fans of the stars or the movie (which judging by the statistics should result in their comments being well listened to).

In contrast we are provided with a 21-minute Comedy Central Reel Comedy TV special which I am sad to say is a whole lot funnier and more entertaining than the main feature. The special features love struck Kutcher and Murphy along with a host chatting about the movie and answering some nonsensical trivia (parents be warned some of this is adult humor).

Next up are four deleted scenes (with optional directors commentary), which add little to the overall picture and hardly worth much of a look.

Rounding out the "Just Married" features is a very short promotional featurette and the theatrical trailer. Probably of more interest are trailers for two other Fox movie releases "Le Divorce" and "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen."

Overall

If you are looking for big belly laughs, this movie will not deliver that, but it could prove mildly diverting for a couple of hours. Really a purchase is only recommended for fans of Kutcher and Murphy, for everyone else this looks like a rental.