"They didn't believe he was my son!"
"I hope that never bothered you before."
Or words to that effect.
I always liked Crawford - it ain't nothin' fruity, I just always,... y'know... liked her.  Everything she did was over the top (even more so with those eye-brows) and yet she came out of it looking great.  She was a "working" Star.  While it was "Mildred Pierce" that took the Oscar, "Humoresque" is Joan's darkest and deepest performance.  It seems to pick up where Mildred Pierce left off, as if Joan sold the restaurant chain, moved to the big city and drank herself into a pit of despair.
The Story:
Garfield is a son-of-a-grocer violinist determined to go to the top, Levant plays side-kick piano, Joan picks up the tab.
So what's the big deal?
For one thing, Garfield plays a mean fiddle - I'm not talking Pa Kettle, either: the kid's got chops.  Levant plays himself (a talented pianist and genius who in real life defined the concept of bi-polar manic depressive).  Joan plays the near-sighted (she wears glasses as some kind of metaphor) heiress-socialite who takes Garfield's career (and ultimately Garfield) under her wing.  Thing is, Garfield likes her a whole lot, but he likes the violin better.  What transpires is a self-destructive affair that shows some remarkable sexual chemistry (apparently this was an "off-the-set thing" too), and some unusually dark twists of character.  The performances are fantastic, particularly in the supporting cast: Mother, Girlfriend, and Crawford's husband (appropriately underplayed by Paul Cavanaugh) are all great.
This movie delivers Film Noire in one of it's strangest forms.  In a genre normally reserved for gangsters and private dicks, the musicians and the music are given a sinister light: most sets are devoid of significant illumination, everything coming from one or two on-set lamps and spots that the actors wander into; the images are all texture, high-contrast, rim lighting and low key - veteran cinematographer Ernest Haller ( "Mildred Pierce", "Rebel Without A Cause", and "Lilies Of The Field") delivers a masterpiece of "negative space".  The visual composition and mise-en-scene are remarkably efficient.
The editing is also spectacular, moving from the "invisible" style of Hollywood narrative, to some pretty wild montages of "big city life" and the crash of `28.  But where the cuts really come into play is in that next-to-last scene where the waves roll in; the last walk along the beach; that guy with the dog...
The music (almost wall to wall), and the on screen-performances are masterfully employed as emotional devices, all leading to Garfield's (and Crawford's) final performance.
Yeah, I know it's just melodrama, but  I think Crawford and Co. genuinely believed in what they were doing  (maybe even Levant believed), and so many moments that might have been badly handled (Joan drunk in the night club) or just "cute" (Garfield's father's obsession with statistics) actually move quite well.  In the end they've made a remarkably affecting film.
And how does it all end?
In real life Joan got another Oscar and lived to work with Spielberg; Garfield survived the McCarthy hearings without naming names, but was dead a year later;  Oscar Levant did a night-time talk-show on live TV where, immobilized by despair, depression, and addiction, he might be found collapsed over his keyboard mid-performance.