John Shaft oozes masculinity in a way rarely seen before or after on the big screen - Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson and Steve MacQueen had it spades but here in Shaft there is nothing but wall-to-wall manhood - private dick ? Shaft ? no more but more importantly, no less.

This is really a tremendously witty, top-drawer type of entertainment that adults can enjoy. Shame on those who sought to belittle the movie by labelling it "blaxploitation" or "aimed at a black audience" - is a Steve MacQueen film aimed only at "a white audience" ?

Simultaneously riffing on, sending-up and transcending the bizarre stereotype of the strong black man whose phallus conquers all, Richard Roundtree's Shaft is shown to be a tough, uncompromising but also sensitive and likeable guy who expertly man-handles eveything that comes in his path be it Harlem gangsters, the Italian mafia, the NYPD, the Black Panthers, or the neighbourhood ladies - not a moment of screen-time is wasted - this man is all-out-action from start-to-finish - there is a tongue-in-cheek but very real sense of the Truth (ie Shaft) will prevail, come what may, type of attitude to the movie that gives it a long-lasting and very far-reaching appeal despite the "aimed at black audiences" tag.

Similar later films might be Bruce Lee's Fists Of Fury, Steve MacQueen's The Getaway, Charles Bronson's Hard Times, Mel Gibson's Mad Max and Payback, Wesley Snipes' Game Of Death - earlier examples Lee Marvin's Point Blank or Lee Van Cleef's Sabata - where one man walks right through the baddies no questions asked - no favours asked for and none given - one could go so far as to say that RR's Shaft is a jollier version of Lee Van Cleef's famous gunslinger-characters - all-conquering but also able to smile at the mock-seriousness of it all - where Shaft does stand out, aside from being cinema's first black action-man lead, is in the hard-core 1970s New York urban setting it portrays - very few films had previously been set so four-sqaure in an urban scenario - and very few since - even the toughest urban dramas will have a scene in the surrounding suburbs or countryside or at least an aeriel long-shot or two to relieve the harshness of the buildings, alleyways and corridors of the urban labryinth - not in this film - this is 'hard' all the way !

John Boorman's Point Blank was self-referential and existenially fraught, Shaft is also self-referential in the same way but unlike that film it is extremely witty and just a whole lot of fun - I was a expecting a so-so- movie with a great soundtrack, instead I found a top-notch entertainer with a nice soundtrack which I barely even noticed amidst all the expert pacing and deft handling of the main character. The best way to describe the movie ?

Shaft !