<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005OSUL9I">Donizetti: Anna Bolena [Blu-ray</a>]

I decided to buy this DVD when I saw the Metropolitan Production on PBS public television which I enjoyed very much, both are very good, but my interest now is to write about the one that I bought.
I knew some of the cast: Anna Netrebko ,Elena Garanca and Idelbrando D'Arcangelo from other productions, and I could see their transformations in each of the roles they had previously done.
The main character, Anna Bolena played by Anna Netrebko was outstanding; she had to show great stamina to maintain the power of her role singing for a very long time and acting at the same time to be able to perform the complexity of this character.
Enrico VIII and Giovanna Seymour played by D'Arcangelo and Elena Garanca respectively were in a similar level as the main character. The rest of the cast was very good.
At the beginning of the opera Enrico VIII has an affair with Giovanna Seymour and wants to annuli his marriage with Anna Bolena ,to do so he has to make a plan to probe that she is the one who is unfaithful ,to achieve this plan he looks for Lord Richard Percy  who is in love with Anna and after falls in the trap, Smeton, a page who also is in love with Anna is caught and tortured until he admitted that she is unfaithful. Enrico  tried to press her to admit that she has an affair ,she denies even though she later admit that she is in love with Percy and they were married before she met and marry the king.
Enrico VIII is a very cruel man an condemns all the people who are in the plot: Lord Richard Percy, Anna's brother, Smeton and of course Anna who later is executed which was very dramatically shown at the end of the opera.
The direction of this performance was perfect as well as the costumes and scenery which showed the era of Enrico VIII as well as England at that time.
The performers were very powerful .The music is very beautiful like all Donizetti's compositions.
The quality of the DVD is outstanding I gave it 5 stars.