Not even sure where to begin with this one. "Madman" is yet another
early 80's "slasher" film set in the woods and yes, there's a legend of a "crazed killer" [sound familiar] who is ready to slice & dice if you
call out his name above a whisper.

Yes,the premise is that ridiculous and as the movie progresses the story does not improve. First and foremost, let's start with the "acting"!?!
BAD...we're talking, HORRIFICALLY bad. Some reviewers here at amazon suggest that "bad acting" works in these type of films...that's true...to an extent. This is not one of them. It's pretty obvious that no one [director especially] was watching the dailies.

Beyond the thespian-ism, "The Music" is goofy or dull, that is, when they decide to add music to a potentially frightening scene....one of many missed opportunities in this mess of a movie.

As for "Mr. Madman Marz" himself...he looks like Santa Claus with a fierce hangover and a grumpy attitude. Incidentally, the "grunts" that  emanate from "Mr Marz" added only comedy to his actions, not menace.

Moreover, all the other "slasher requisites" are in short supply here...gore/blood, nudity, sex, suspense...not even a good final chase scene. At best, there are two good killings and maybe one "jump scare"

However, there are moments when "Madman" is so bad that it begins to get surreal. Cue, "Hot-Tub" scene, so absurd, "swirling" around the hot tub...looks like a late 70's commercial for real bad wine or cologne. Also, one of the faux chase scenes is absolutely mind-blowing. I was in disbelief watching a twentyish something year old woman run slower than my grandmother on crutches whilst a crazed, axe-wielding, santa-hillbilly monster was after her.

Just for the record, I love horror, especially late 70's/early 80's slasher films... so I'm not criticizing this film because I can't relate to genre, low budgets etc etc...

Anyway, if you like "80's slasher/horror movies"..I suppose this is worth one look...if you plan on purchasing...PLEASE do not pay a lot of money for this train wreck. I own this disaster and thankfully I can't remember what I paid for it...probably too much, sadly.

Remember, there are far better "Slasher n Stalker" guilty pleasures out there....from "Friday the 13th", "The Burning" [Madman "borrows" from both these films...no-where near their equal, ,obviously] "The Prowler", "He knows You're Alone" to name a few + if you want more "wood/cabin/counselors" slashers...watch "Sleepaway Camp"

I'm giving "Madman" [for unintentional comedy than anything]
2 STARS.

File under, "Grade C" early 80's slasher.