I just want to thank Amazon's Prime Instant Video for once again providing me access with a new favorite BBC show that I will plan on watching in the future.

Being a fan of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's it was with great pleasure to see this update to the consulting detective. Fans of Steven Moffat (Coupling and Dr. Who) will definitely want to tune in to see how he has updated one of the most famous detectives in literary times (next to Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple).

The new television series stars Benedict Cumberbatch as Sherlock Holmes and Martin Freeman as Doctor John Watson.

For fans of the Sherlock Holmes novels many of you should be familiar with <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1907523324">A Study in Scarlet</a> since that was the first novel by Doyle that introduced the characters of Sherlock Holmes to Dr. John Watson. This new series keeps elements of "A Study in Scarlet" intact such as Holmes and Watson meeting for the first time. However, there are updates due to the technology of the day.

We have Holmes and Watson meeting once again through a mutual friend and agreeing to move in together at 221 B Baker Street.

Due to inexplicable suicides DI Greg Lestrade played by Rupert Graves, consults with Holmes in order to determine out a perpetrator in these crimes. Unlike the atagonism that was between Lestrade and Holmes in the novels, in this television update, Lestrade uses Holmes in order to solve tough and baffling cases. And at one point says to Watson, "Sherlock Holmes is a great man. I hope one day that he can be a good man."

This is episode 1 of series 1 and runs 90 minutes. I would recommend that you plan on hitting pause if you leave the room for very long since watching Holmes break down a puzzle or being able to determine so much about a person in 30 seconds is awe inspiring to watch and see.

We get introduced to Holmes older brother Mycroft Holmes and for the first time hear the name, "Moriarity".  What is great to see is the developing friendship between Holmes and Watson. We have several running gags between Holmes and Watson's living arrangements with everyone thinking they are a couple and with Watson's outright admiration of Holmes intellect. There were several laugh out loud moments for me (when Holmes tells Watson to think it through next time someone offers him a bribe, they could have split it, being just one for me).

The show often helps a viewer out by showing what text messages say or show you what Holmes is seeing when he looks at someone.

I was able to view this episode for free through the Amazon Prime Program.

Definitely recommend watching!