Let me preface my review by saying (a) I have never read the novel and (b) I probably read too much about the movie before I saw it. I also watch movies for entertainment, never searching, and rarely stumbling upon, a much deeper meaning.

That having been said, I was sure that I would find this movie completely unwatchable. I watched it only because Wentworth Miller was in it. But I found that I was actually quickly captivated by the movie, even before Miller appeared. I don't find the premise of Coleman Silk's dismissal from the college completely unbelievable. I find it, unfortunately, all too believable that an esteemed academic COULD be quickly dimissed for innocent remarks made that had potential of being racist, even if they were not. What I did not find was the suspense that the description of the movie alluded to. I don't really see how the revelation of Coleman Silk's big "secret" was about to ruin his life. In fact, in consideration of the fact that the loss of his job was due to a racist remark, the revelation of his secret could have saved his life. His "secret" had much stronger impacts on his life in the flashback scenes of the movie.

Ironically, I also found the casting of Wentworth Miller as the young Silk every bit as implausible as the casting of Anthony Hopkins as the elder Silk, even knowing full-well that Miller is perfectly cast in the part.  If only the Silk family had just one member that had skin nearly as fair as Miller's, I could have bought it. (Perhaps Miller's own family should have been cast.) But Miller looked like the adopted child in the family, clearly much fairer than his parents and both siblings, both an older brother, and a younger sister. I also found it implausible that Silk had developed an incredibly strong British accent, presumably from his time at Oxford, after growing up in New Jersey and attending NYU, and then retained that accent over many, many years teaching in New England.

However, it goes without saying that Hopkins played the part as well as it could be played, even if the casting on it's face was less-than ideal. Miller's casting was ideal on it's face AND his performance was strong, but I do wonder how much of it was "acting" per se, and not emotion based on his own feelings and struggles with his identity. In other words, he was great, but was it really that much of a stretch? Nicole Kidman was excellent, perfectly pulling off her character, as she always does. Somehow, she is always believeable, even if she is a beautiful, classy Australian playing a somewhat grubby, class-less American.

I watched this film on DVD, so I have to believe that nothing was left out of my version. But I feel like I may have seen an edited version based on other reviews. As mentioned, I found the movie to be far from suspenseful. While Coleman's secret may have had significance in his youth, I found it to be far less significant in his adulthood. I have no idea how people knew that Kidman's character was illiterate.  I also have no idea what the scene with the crow had to do with anything other than allowing a means for Kidman's character to confess further details of her past. If that was it's purpose, it could have been much more cleverly achieved. Perhaps these were details that were in the book but not well integrated into the film.

Overall, the movie is very watchable. It is a good story that makes one pause to think about the struggles of people of color, especially for those who have never had to go through such struggles. But don't expect to be sitting on the edge of your seat waiting for some huge secret to be revealed or for it to come out and ruin Silk's life. It's a great drama, not a strong suspense.