American Psycho may well be one of the most misunderstood films in recent history. First off, this film is a comedy, albeit a very dark one; second, the violence takes place offscreen, allowing the symbolism of the film to take center stage.
The film is not so much about the excess of the 1980s, as it is the emptiness of the sheer pursuit of all things superficial. The central character, Patrick Batemen (played by the brilliant Christian Bale), epitomizes emptiness, something he himself knows. He comments early on that while he may seem to be as human as everyone else, there is merely "an idea of a Patrick Bateman," and in truth, he just "isn't there."
The film follows Bateman's odyssey through what appears to be a violent killing spree, motivated, it seems, sheerly by the desire for sensation.  Whether the violence is actually happening, or merely a metaphor, the lingering question gives the film its depth. It's hard to imagine an actor more perfect for this role than Christian Bale, who finally got a chance to show off his chops in AP. It's equally hard to believe Bale is actually British, as his accent is so flawlessly perfect. (He's also quite easy on the eyes, which certainly doesn't hurt.)
American Psycho is one of those films you can watch over and over, and continually see new things. Every frame seems to have been carefully designed, and the visuals are stunning. Bateman's apartment, for example, is all white, startlingly sterile, and shows no sign of personality or individuality whatsover. The apartment, like many other images in the film, speaks volumes.
Ambiguity about gender, sexual preference, reality, meaning, and nearly everything is clearly deliberate. Does anything mean *anything*? Is life inherently meaningless? Can external beauty disguise internal ugliness? Does it? Should it?
American Psycho, in any format, is a ride and a half. It's entertaining, hilariously and frighteningly funny, and powerfully thought-provoking. I believe American Psycho is one of the greatest films of the latter half of the 20th century, and will be considered so, if only in retrospect. See it expecting greatness, and, guaranteed, you'll find it.