This DVD is a well-produced disc, containing a breezy commentary with the wonderful Harold Ramis, an amusing quiz to test your mob capability, and a standard behind-the-scenes featurette and trailer.  Video quality and sound is good, just as you'd expect most modern DVDs.
The movie, unfortunately, is not quite as well-made as the disc.  The first movie had the advantage of originality, pairing Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal for the first time with snappy dialog and interesting situations.  I hate to say it, but you, Analyze That, you... you're not so good, you.
With the main action of the movie based around a "Sopranos" TV show look-alike, Little Caesar, the movie about the mafia makes fun of a TV show about the mafia.  I don't know why they'd feel the need to do this... the lead actor in the TV show "Little Caesar" is from Australia (though Italian), making fun of actors who really aren't Italian trying to pass off as the genuine article.  However, all the actors on the Sopranos pretty much are the real thing, aren't they?  I don't get why you'd need to make fun of it... it's definitely not saying anything to me, though I don't watch the Sopranos.  Maybe I need a few season history to catch more of the jokes...
Some snappy dialog is exchanged between DeNiro and Crystal... and again, as many others have said, Lisa Kudrow is essentially shoved in a corner, not getting a chance to show her considerable comedic skill.  It's a shame, too, because too much of this movie seems ... well... not funny.  You're looking for a laugh, since you think it's supposed to be a light-hearted Billy Crystal romp... but it just doesn't come off as that effectively enough.
Even with a pretty average to sub-par comedy, the music will have you rockin'.  Done by David Holmes, the soundtrack here is very much in the same vein as the Clooney/Pitt Ocean's Eleven.  Very deep beats.
The beginning 20 minutes or so start off well enough, but the movie just dragged after that.  If you get it, wait until you get to see a catatonic Robert DeNiro, and then consider popping in the original or watching a new episode of the Sopranos.