Not the biggest RUSH fan, never really was, but went to see this in a local theater tonight and man, what a great piece of work! A unique Rockumentary that has many different dimensions of the band in full view. From the early years through the present, it takes you through their career from album to album in a loose, chronological way. Shows some of the highs and lows and a peak into the creative energy that the band still seems to have. Neil Peart explains his writing style and ideology a bit. There are several concert footage scenes, but if you are going expecting to see a lot of music, you may be disappointed.... for a minute.

More than anything, this is a film about real guys who had a desire and need to do what they are doing. Its a movie that touches you. The friendship and brotherly compassion that these guys have for one another is well defined. And though Neil Peart had horrific losses and tragedies in his life some years back, it seems the band has truly come full circle now and are closer than ever. I found the scenes of Peart traveling and speaking of how he and the band handled that period in his life to be a very candid and inspiring. Something positive can come from negatives.

Their is a real sense of respect you get to see a few men in their 60's, after doing the same thing for 45 years, still want to tweak their craft and reach to new levels musically. Most bands of their genre live on recycling the past, but that clearly is not the case. It is also good to see such a strong fan base grow with them. That is magical. And they have that. Not just by looking at concert ticket sales for the last 30 years, but by seeing how many people were at the theater tonight only solidified my opinion.

So that is what makes this whole film work. Not really just the music element, but the human element. Even if you aren't the biggest fan, you will enjoy the flow, the bands story and Alex Lifeson's witty sense of humor! Its a very well done documentary that has no boring moments. There are many cut away's to other musicians and entertainers speaking about the band that are funny and honest. Aside from Jack Black being in several scenes, Billy Corgan (Smashing Pumpkins)is featured many times as is Gene Simmons, speaking of taking the band on their first major tour. Sebastian Bach is there as well. But it does not diminish the quality of the film. Only makes you appreciate the range of people they have influenced.

Overall I will say A+! Great film.See it in a theater if you can, because it just looks great on the big screen and sounds EXCELLENT! Now I too have finally come to appreciate this excellent and classy band. Well done.