Every once in awhile, a person becomes witness to a movie with no real point, but rather is driven by its dialogue and the characters within the film.  A vast number of these movies fall into the comedy genre, because if a movie is funny, it doesn't require a powerful plot, but it anchors on the humor it expresses.  Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle is one of these movies.  And, I believe it to be a success at what it attempts.  Like Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Dazed and Confused, and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, this movie will become a modern stoner classic, but I feel it can be enjoyed by a vast number of viewers; this movie was downright funny.

Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle is the hilarious tale about the two title characters Harold (John Cho) and Kumar (Kal Penn).  In fact, the entire movie's plot is in the title.  These two stoners get the munchies one night, and while debating what to eat, see a television commercial for the one place that seems to hit the spot and satisfy all of their cravings and desires: White Castle.  After this, the film is nothing but our hilarious heroes coming across a wild amount of mishaps and numerous funny situations.  The film even has a hilarious cameo by Neil Patrick Harris, whom many of us know as Doogie Houser M.D., playing himself all messed up on ecstasy.  This movie is a d**n good time.

At first, I was very skeptical about this movie.  I mean, it looked funny, but I still wasn't sure.  I kind of got the same vibe for this as I did for Dude, Where's My Car?, and that turned out awful.  It is strange too, because this movie happened to be directed by the same guy as Dude, Where's My Car?: Danny Leiner.  However, this time, Leiner hit the genre on the head, creating a comical success.  Maybe it was the R rating.  I recall thinking back to Dude, Where's My Car?, knowing how bad it sucked.  Could some of that badness have been erased, had an R rating opened up more possibilities for crude humor?  I think the answer to that question is yes, and it is evident in Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle.

John Cho and Kal Penn carry this movie very well.  I had seen John Cho in the American Pie movies before, but I never got around to seeing Van Wilder with Kal Penn.  Either way, this is the first starring role movie for both of these guys or I think they did wonders with it.  They have great onscreen chemistry and provide some really great dialogue exchanges.  The rest of the acting was good too.  Neil Patrick Harris was hilarious as himself and there were numerous other good performances, including Anthony Anderson, playing a Burger Shack Employee who delivers a monologue about why Harold and Kumar should go to White Castle.

The soundtrack is also worth noting.  A lot of the songs fit well, and I especially enjoyed a sequence where Harold and Kumar just let loose and start singing this soft song from 1991.  It really is funny.

Overall, I was very pleased with my experience seeing this picture.  Of course, I was with three friends, which always helps the comedic experience.  Call me crazy, but if at some parts where you aren't laughing and your friend does, you might catch the humor and join in.  So it's a good buddy flick to see.  Of course, the plot is thin (if any plot at all), but who needs plot?  This is just a movie about two stoners and their misadventures along the way of finding a White Castle.  Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle is very simple and very fun.  Recommended.

www.filmstatic.com - we take review movies seriously and with an attitude, but not a serious attitude.