Summary: It's a typical night for Batman: when Penguin and Joker escape Arkham, he tries to capture and bring them back. Well...not this time. In his attempt to get the badguys, he watches as Joker plumits to his doom, while the Penguin stumbles across an odd gravestone which he believes contains valuable treasure -- WRONG! Unfortunately for Penguin, he happens to unleash the vampire lord, Dracula, onto to Gotham City. Now Batman has his hands full from keeping the city from turning into vampires -- all the while -- trying to keep his date, Vicky Vale, from falling into the wrong hands.

My Opinion: This definetely isn't your average Batman movie to watch, and even though (like the rest of The Batman episodes) it has great animation, but the story could use a little tweaking. I mean -- come on, Dracula just 'happens' to be in Gotham City, New York? That just seems a little too coincidental, if you ask me. It would make more sense if Batman had to go to Transylvania for some reason (like on a mission/bussines, or something like that).

If this movie is supposed to be diverted towards younger children (like around 10 years), then they need to tone down the 'blood' content in this. Don't get me wrong, vampires are all about blood, but I think they showed it a little too much. For example, there is a scene where Batman fights off a vampire Joker at a blood bank. When Batman slams into a shelf of blood viles, the whole thing tilts to the side and starts pouring down on the walls -- and even Joker himself -- like some kind of waterfall; and you even witness the vampire Joker drinking it off the walls and floor -- now that's just gross!

The vampires, even Dracula, are down right creepy in this movie, so I do give credit to the animators on that one. What's also creepy, is the fact the vampires can see a human's 'heartbeat'...oh yes, that's creepy. What creeps me out the most in this movie is that vampire Joker. He's got to be the scariest vampire in the movie. If you thought he acted demented and weird in the regular cartoons, you're in for a big surprise when you watch this movie!

Overall: Even though I think the creators took some things a little too far in this movie, but overall, it's not a bad movie to watch (especially when it comes to be around Halloween)! This movie also brings out Bruce's/Batman's character a little more, like why he can't have a serious relationship with a woman.

Also, even though this is just my opinion, but I wish Joker was in it more (since I'm a big fan to the new animated Joker and all). Hopefully, the creators will think about doing a movie all about the newly animated Joker. Now I think that will be a movie worth seeing!