I grabbed Bamboozled off of the video store shelf after passing it several times. After viewing it I was nearly in tears. What I saw in this highly provoctive satire, is nearly every segment of the Black community being portrayed. There is Damon Wayans, a Black television write/producer who is not comfortable in his own skin. He hates his Blackness and makes great efforts to seperate himself from what he sees as negative aspects of his color. In one scene Damon's character is unable to reconize Willie Mays' picture. Then there is Jada's character. A Black woman, highly efficient, highly professional but not taken seriously. She struggles to reconcile what she faces each day to her deeply rooted sense of what is right. There are the street characters,(Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson) struggling and wanting success so badly that they can justify even putting on black face to make money. The Mau Mau's blinded by their own pain and rage. Attempting to cope by getting high and access verbage, not able to recognize the absurdity of their actions and sayings. In the midst of all of this is the white owned media, in this case CNS (personified by Michael Rapaport). It is uncaring, its only concern is beating the competition for ratings. 
This is a film that is disturbing, but I find that truth is often disturbing. This film will disturb both blacks and whites. It disturbed the hell out of me, because I saw parts of myself in this movie, and that is always disturbing. I do feel that Spike was a bit heavy handed with his characters in the ending, but that's Spike. I love this movie. Would I recommend it, yes. That is most emphatically yes. But view it with an open mind. This is not a feel good movie, this is not a self affirming movie. This is a brutally frank movie and I am sure Spike has and will continue to catch a lot of flack for it. What I find really amazing is that Spike is so brutally to the point in this movie but he still makes you laugh.
This movie shows us how the media has Bamboozled us, not only Blacks, but all Americans. It shows how the media can shape our opinions and modify our sense of what is right and what is wrong. How the corporations exploit our weaknesses and insecurities. The acting is brilliant, one of Damon's most powerful performances. 
If you want a mindless film, then this one is not for you. If you want a feel good movie which hypes our system and reaffirms our way of doing things, pass this one up. But if you want a brutally frank statment of media exploitation and of its power to persuade, then this is a film for you. I personally vote it as one of Spike's best, it is definately my favorite of his works.