I heard this product recommended by Scott Wilkinson of Ultimate AV Mag on Leo Laporte's Tech Guy radio show (KFI 640 am).  He told the caller that the two most popular calibration discs are <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000V6LST0">Digital Video Essentials: HD Basics [Blu-ray</a>] or Disney's WOW.  I had already tried the Digital Video Essentials and was extremely dissatisfied and didn't get any results.

So I gave Disney's WOW a try and was blown away by the results I was able to achieve.  I used it on our other TV upstairs and on my mom's new TV.

Disney WOW provides you with the "What", "Why", and finally the "How" for both video and audio calibration.  For every setting (brightness, contrast, etc.) there was 3-part menu that first explained the concept behind the setting, then demonstrated how to work with the test pattern (called a "PLUGE"), and then finally showed the raw PLUGE pattern for you to keep on screen until the calibration was complete.

It turns out that this is more important than I thought.  My mom's brand new 54" Panasonic was very far out of calibration.  It only took me about a half hour to dial it in though.

Just as valuable was the audio.  I wasn't really expecting much from the audio portion, but it turned out to be a godsend for setting up my mom's home theater.  Mom's speakers were already installed, but none of the wires were labeled.  So I turned on the audio calibration test, which is just an image and voice cycling from left front, center, right front, right rear, left rear, and sub.  It was still a frustrating playing whack-a-mole with the signal as it cycled around.  It would have been simpler for me if the voice could have repeated "left front - left front - left front..." until I matched the right wire with the right connection, but that's MY problem.

There's also a very helpful test for checking the polarity of the speakers.  If you connect them wrong (+/-), then the sound will be out of phase for that speaker.  It's tricky to detect without a decent test like this.

All in all, this calibration system is a must for any home entertainment system.  Even if you just buy one and share it with your friends.  You've probably dropped a couple thousand bucks on your home theater.  You should spend a few more dollars and an hour or so to dial it in perfectly!

The funny thing about this product is that it combines a TON of educational content in with the diagnostics (in different sections).  I don't know if it's just me, but I was pretty impatient to get to the heart of the diagnostics section so I could crank through the calibration and be done with it.  But I went back and watched the rest of the material to learn more about the technology.  I feel like I should get some kind of certification now, because now I know all about things like frame rates, interlaced signals, and so on.