I have held this movie in high regard over the years and was ecstatic when they first announced this DVD was coming to market. I viewed it for the first time and all I can say is WOW!. The DVD transfer is superb and the  sound quality is fantastic. The color fidelity really shines when viewing  the Super Posse chase but great care was taken as all of the scenes look  almost as good as the original 35MM print. With the questionable  "bonus" items hastily thrown together on a lot of DVD releases  today is is refreshing that the same care and attention to detail that went  into producing and directing the original movie went into the production of  this DVD. The director/writer/cameraman commentary is excellent. A lot of  behind the scenes anecdotes and explanations of how scenes were shot are  intelligently discussed and proves once again that this movie was crafted  and created by movie making and acting professionals who were at the top of  their game in 1968. I was thoroughly engrossed by the interviews that were  filmed in 1994 (the 25th Anniversary of the original release of the movie).  The interviews with Paul Newman, Robert Redford, and William Goldman are  exceptional because of the different perspectives and viewpoints given on  how the movie got made and the effusive praise and credit heaped  (deservedly so on George Roy Hill, the Director). Not to take anything away  from the Katherine Ross and Burt Bacharach interviews which are also very  informative. The hour long documentary "The Making of Butch Cassidy  and the Sundance Kid" is also included in the bonus section and is  also must see viewing as it goes behind the scenes on how they filmed most  of the key story sequences. Students of film to just plain movie buffs will  pick up a lot of terrific inside film-making tips and techniques from this  documentary that is narrated by George Roy Hill, Paul Newman, Robert  Redford, and Conrad Hall. In summary, if you already have a VHS copy GET  THIS DVD! . It is a true American movie classic that was made the old  fashioned way. It told a great story cinematically with few  artistic/creative compromises. I see lots of parallels between George Roy  Hill and James Cameron because they are both fighters/(loathers of studio  execs (suits) and all of the money that they spend on the movie can be seen  when viewing the final cut. They demand (and get) the utmost respect from  their actors and film-making crew because they KNOW what they're doing!  Great Story+Great Director+Great Actors=Great Movie. I assure you this will  be one of the best DVD additions to your collection.