I remember when my mother owned a beautiful red Camaro.  Originally, it had belonged to her late husband who happened to have a passion for Camaro's.  Then he passed away and mom kept it; it was stolen twice, little accidents would happen, sometimes the back hood would pop open while on the road, it locked my baby brother in once -he was 6 months old-, and then finally, one day for no reason, it locked and wouldn't start.

That's when mom decided to sell it.  Despite it being so beautiful it was a pain in the a**!

X marks the spot.  Mom soon discovered - through a mechanic- that the car's chassis had been damaged very badly; it was utterly twisted.  This meant that the car had suffered a terrible accident once, and judging from the chassis's condition, the driver's fate had been sealed in that accident.

...While mom's Camaro couldn't repair or rejuvenate itself or drive alone, it still reminds me alot of 'Christine'.  Must be the Red.

I watched this film last night and found it to be slightly eerie.  Details will be spared since many reviewers here have been kind enough to provide them.  It's a story about possesion and a boy's twisted love affair with his car.  The film gives 'Christine' the traits of a woman.  She's even filmed the way a young, pretty woman would be (behind and all).

But she's also very jealous, revengeful, and lethal.  It's an entirely different kind of story for those that aren't familiar with any of Stephen King's works.  King has the tendency to dwell on the "what if's" and this clearly allows him to move about and create thrilling story plots like the one's found in Carrie and Christine.

'Christine' has always been a great story.  But while the film tries too hard to be scary, it fails to convey the horrors found in the novel.  There are some very good scenes, backed by music that intensifies the atmosphere.  Arnie's character is well played.  But the real star of the film nonetheless is the 1958 fiery red Plymouth Fury with a mind of it's own.  I would never believe in nonsense such as a possesed car but everything fits in the possibilities.

I recommend watching it, but I wouldn't recommend buying it.

Like some films, it works the first time.  The second is just for kicks.