Scream 2
Score: 80/100
Scream 2 didn't live up to the standards of its predecessor, unfortunately. But, hey, with a classical progenitor like Scream itself, you can't really expect a sequel to over-come a movie, which scored 98/100. We could see the sequel coming after Scream's ending, but what we didn't know is that it would be this good. Some sequels just go down like a sinking ship, but this one in particular keeps itself afloat excellently.
Two years after the terrifying events that occurred in Woodsboro, Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is now attending Windsor College in Cincinnati with long time friend Randy Meeks (Jamie Kennedy). Meanwhile, Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) best selling book on Sidney's life has now been made into a major motion picture. When two college students are killed in a theatre while watching the new film "Stab," Sidney knows deep down that history is for sure repeating itself again. Gale Weathers is present around the college reporting on the latest gruesome details that her movie has sparked. Dewey (David Arquette) comes to visit Sidney after he hears the news also. No one believes the murders were in any way connected to Woodsboro, until more students around the campus are found dead. Gale and Dewey investigate and find that someone is trying to recreate Woodsboro. Sidney is no rookie when it comes to surviving a killer but someone wiser is on campus to show her some good old fashion revenge.
Scream 2 is one hell of a sequel, it's able to mix comedy, mystery, horror and plenty of thrills just as the first one did, and even though, as I said before, it isn't up to the same standards as Scream, it still has the same level of intrigue in the plotline, and the gruesome killings will leave you speechless with shock. There's an even more star-studded cast in the sequel than in the first film, Neve Campbell, Jamie Kennedy (who is given a lot more to do this time in a memorable role as film geek Randy), Courteney Cox and David Arquette return, but much of the talent comes from actors like Jerry O'Connell and Liev Schreiber, Connell plays Sidney's new love interest swiftly and with style, and Schreiber is fantastic as main suspect Cotton Weary, who has got himself out of jail after been wrongly accused of murdering Sidney's mother.
Lots of chills and hardly any spills, Scream 2 is an awesome and continuously watchable sequel, highly recommended to people like me, who absolutely loved the first film. You'll feel the same way about it's sequel, guaranteed.