I like Vincent Price & this movie, 'nuff said on that. What I would like to cover is this particular edition of this movie. Not only does this disk include the original B/W version & a new colorized version, but it also has a bonus audio track from the creators of Rifftrax. This Rifftrax only features Mike Nelson.

The original B/W seems to be cleaned-up high quality version (I own another disk from another publisher that is very bad on both audio & visual quality). I'm very happy with this B/W movie.

The colorized version is absolutely amazing. I normally don't like colorized B/W movies (I'm one who watches a lot of old B/W movies), they look fake and it can really ruin the feel of the movie. Many colorizations seem to forget to colorize the inner mouth, so that when someone is talking, it just looks freaky and disturbing. They also seem to try too hard, it's as if they can't accept that a film is done in B/W and rather than compliment the film or simply enhance, they try to make it a bright, colorful, modern looking film. Not so on this disk(at least not that I noticed). When I played the colorized film, I couldn't believe the quality. If I hadn't known this was originally a B/W film, I don't think I could have ever guessed it. I was very impressed with the job these guys did on the film, both in cleaning up the B/W and also with the colorization.

The concept of Rifftrax is to basically make fun of movies, usually bad ones. I've seen some bad movies that are "riffed" and frankly, if it's truly a terrible movie, there is no amount of "riffing" that can make it worth watching. They just aren't funny. Usually the best riffing is done on something that is either so old people don't understand the acting or writing style (and hence can make fun of it), or it's on a movie that isn't all that bad. This is one of those not so bad movies that are just fun & relaxing to watch. The only problem with the riffing on this movie is that the banter between the three guys (Mike Nelson, Bill Corbett, & Kevin Murphy) is missing as Mike is doing all the riffing. I found this to be jarring and not very interesting as I'm accustomed to hearing all 3, each lending his own take on the particular riff. It's a nice bonus and I'm happy it's on there, but it shouldn't be a primary reason for a purchase.

I'm very happy I bought this version of this movie. I believe they also did a colorized version of "Last Man on Earth" and I'm hoping this company does other movies as well.