On September 11, 2001, two planes crashed into the WTC.  This is a film that is unlike all the rest.  It is an amazing look back every time you watch it.  This DVD includes the expandend version of the film, 129 minutes.  It includes a whole hour never seen on CBS.  9/11 begins with following a New York firefighter thorough his nine month probitionary period.  Jules and Gedeon Naudet are the filmakers.  The original plan was to make a documentary on a firefighter, instead of 9/11.  Of 99 "probies," the choose Tony Benatadoes.  When arriving at his firehouse, engine 7, ladder 1 downtown, he barely fought any fires.
They follow him all the way the original plan to 9/10/01.  The next day, the firefighters are called out.  Jules takes his camera for camera practice. The firefighters went to the odor of gas in the street a few minutes away from the WTC.  At 8:46 A.M, a plane engine was heard.  Jules tilts his camera up just in time to film the only existing footage of the plane hitting tower 1.  They got in the car and rode down to the WTC.  Jules asks Batallion Chief Joseph Pfiefer if he could come into the lobby.  He let him.  You see the inside of the lobby after the plane hit.  All the windows were blown out.  The elevators were blocked out, so they had to climb 80 stories to get to the fire.
Then, a second plane hit.  This time, it was tower 2.  Chunks of the plane engine landed blocks away.  Gedeon was at the firehouse with Tony.  He wondered where his brother was.  Soon, in the lobby of twoer 1, the second tower fell.  They were in the lobby and ran.  They had to get out.  When they got out, they plotted their next move.  But next, the first tower fell.  They saw it collapse, and ran.
Soon Gedeon realizes, where's my brother?  They get back to the firehouse, and he asks if anybody has seen Jules?  He showed up behind him. Gedeon was happy.  But then they realized, Where is Tony?  Tony went with the retired chief and returned safely.  The next day, they had to go back to dig for surviviors. Barely any were found.  At the end of the program, there is a tribute to all of the firefighters that lost their lives on September 11.  That ends the show.
Also on this disk, there are interviews.  These 16 minute interviews explore more in depth of what happens.  That ends this filmaker's commerative edition.  I rate this show five stars.  This is the best 9/11 documentary I have seen.  SO I urge you to get it.