WWE Vengeance 2005

A+ 100 - 98 (A Perfect PPV. Nothing Can Beat It)

A 97 - 95 (A Classic PPV)

A- 94 - 92 (A Totally Memorable PPV)

B+ 91 - 89 (A Very Good PPV)

B 88 - 86 (A Great PPV)

B- 85 - 83 (A Good PPV)

C+ 82 - 80 (The Good Outshines The Bad In This PPV)

C 79 - 77 (A Fair PPV)

C -  76 - 74 (An Okay PPV)

D+ 73 - 71 (This PPV Failed To Deliver)

D  70 - 68 (This PPV Is Not Good At All)

D-  67 - 65 (A Terrible PPV)

F 64 and below (Vince Cursed The Day He Showed This PPV)

Intercontinental Championship

Shelton Benjamin vs. Carlito Caribbean Cool

This match was better than their two previous matches that they had on Raw but still failed to deliver due to Shelton's lack of charisma and the fact Carlito still looks a little too green. Shelton tried to carry this match with a couple of high flying moves here and there but to no prevail. Match Rating 7/10

Christy Hemme vs. Victoria

Wow this match was a little too.....how should I say it? Intense. But not that kind of intensity that you would expect in a Chris Benoit match. No this was the kind of "I'll Kill You and Cut You Up Into Little Pieces!!!!" type of intensity. Good effort but still sloppy and there were no high spots at all. Match Rating 6/10

Edge vs. Kane

At this point I was tired of seeing these two together in the same ring but they were however able to pull of a good match here tonight in Las Vegas. The last five minutes is what makes the whole match. Match Rating 8/10

Kurt Angle vs. Shawn Michaels

In my opinion...this match wasn't as good as their first match at WrestleMania. But that's not to say that this was not one hell of a match. This match once again had everything you could ask for in it just like their WrestleMania match with Angle dominating most of the match. After delivering a german suplex into the announcers table the danm table didn't break again! My Gawd! As J.R. would say. Anyway, the finish was pretty good considering that it was predictable who would go over and the finish was predictable as well but these two once again gave it their all to the fans and they once again earned my respect. Match rating 10/10

WWE Championship

Triple - Threat Match

Chris Jericho vs. Christian vs. John Cena

Praise the Lord Jericho and Christian are in a main event match! John Cena is no where near these two guys in terms of wrestling but in terms of entertainment he can hang with them. This match was entertaining and unpredictable as well which added a lot to this match. Nice turnbuckle spot with the powerbomb and superplex. Like I said before, John Cena is not that great of a wrestler but when you're in the ring with both Christian and Chris Jericho you're going to look good which john Cena did and it didn't hurt the match at all. Match Rating 10/10

World Heavyweight Championship

Hell In A Cell

Triple - H vs. Batista

Triple - H and Batista had been in two Main Event PPV matches before this and to decide a winner once and for all their last match would take place inside of Hell In A Cell. And what a battle it was! Steel Chain, Steel Steps, Sledge Hammer, The Cell Itself, and a steel chair WRAPPED IN BARBED WIRE were all weapons used in this match. This was one bloody, brutal, amazing match which saw both men give amazing performances. This is a match that cannot be missed if you're a fan of either superstar. Match Rating 10/10

WWE Vengeance 2005 scored a 51/60 which is a 85 B- (A Good PPV). I would have to agree with this score (Even though some people may not agree). Shelto/Carlito and the Women's match hurt this PPV from getting a better score. This PPV is totally worth your money if you want to buy it. Trust Me you won't be disappointed.