I first saw this film a month ago, and right out, I have to say I never was a great fan of Barbara Stanwyck. She was a great actress, but too headstrong or selfish (I like Katharine Hepburn better, but not by very much because she was a little bit like Stanwyck). Here, Barbara plays Stella Dallas, from a poor family intent on marrying Stephen Dallas (John Boles). Personally, I think it is for his social position.

I am a big fan of John Boles--but he and his character Stephen Dallas gets a bum rap. Stephen's bankrupt millionaire father had committed suicide, by which he also deserts his well-bred fiance Helen (Barbara O'Neill). Stella goes to his office to captivate him, and she succeeds by being ladylike and well-dressed. It's no wonder he falls for her, for he is lonely and upset by Helen's rebound marriage to a Mr. Morrison. After probably only a couple of weeks of meeting Stella, Stephen marries her.

A year later, their daughter Laurel is born. The day they come home from the hospital, Stella finds an invitation to a dance, and Stephen gives in. Stella deliberately detains their departure, and they have a confrontation at home that Boles handles very well (for his character's limitations). Their marriage is in serious trouble--clearly Stella had a big part in ruining it. When she's asked why she married him, she says that she was crazy about him. But Stephen loves her. She's sick of giving up things for him and doesn't see him giving up anything--but he's had to put up with her bad behavior, so he has gone without too. When he says he's accepted the request of working at the New York branch of his company and wants her to go with him, Stella refuses, and their marriage is effectively over.

Anne Shirley (as their daughter Laurel) was Oscar-nominated along with Barbara Stanwyck. She is very enthusiastic and well-mannered, quite similar to her well-bred father considering Stella raised her, but she's seen her father every year. Stanwyck has always wanted the best for her, the one thing that is commendable about her. Days before Laurel's 13th birthday, Stephen meets Helen, who is now widowed. Stephen and Laurel spend her birthday with Helen and her three sons. Stephen has always loved Helen, and spends lots of time with her, which makes Stella suspicious.

Then Stella and Stephen reunite cordially one Christmas. He's invited Laurel to spend the holidays with Helen, but after seeing what Stella's done, he sees no reason why she can't join them, and means it. While phoning the train for a later time, he sees a drunken Ed Munn (played by Alan Hale), who sobers instantly. Stephen wants to get a divorce to marry Helen and let Stella have her freedom (He mistakenly assumes she wants to marry Ed). Stella is pure poison talking to his lawyer, and thinks Stephen's trying to get her to want more than what she can give by sending her to fancy places. She tries the very same thing, but it ends in disaster. She meets Helen and wants her to be Laurel's mother after she is married to Stephen.

Barbara O'Neill is the only one who really understands Laurel, unfortunately, but it's not John Boles' fault. His role is relatively small and is basically that of a gentlemanly, loving father who couldn't completely understand Laurel if he wanted to. He has some very good scenes and is a good actor, but it's almost a wasted role--the role isn't worthy of him at all. The roles requires an stiffness toward Stella that is painful to watch, and I've never seen him have to be that before!

Alan Hale as Ed Munn gets a very well-rounded role as the uncouth, occasional drunk who wanted to marry Stella, but is turned down. Anne Shirley's scenes are SO enjoyable. The film belongs to Stanwyck, but much of the film revolves around Laurel, and a more worthy teenaged actress to fit the bill would be very hard to find. I am also a big fan of Anne Shirley. The film spans at least 18 years, and that is at times quite inconsistent. No one looks the right age all the time, but look the appropriate age at different times. Stella and Stephen seem to not age at all (or too much). But those are only minor failings in a wonderful film.