Frankly I am disgusted by the reviews, mostly positive. The Criterion snobs are whining. Since they shell out twenty bucks extra at Barnes and Noble, they think it allows them to focus first on the DVD itself instead of the actual movie.

It is an INSULT TO THIS MOVIE to start out whining about the quality of the transfer or whatever you are kvetching about.

This movie is more than an addition to your over-priced 45 dollar DVDs that we employees laugh at you about...

It's a great movie. It's a daring movie. It's one of a kind. How many chances do you get to see a film that paves it's own way? You need not compare it to Hollywood, Independent, Documentary, Dogme movies. It's a brilliant piece of work. Face it. Don't call it a cult classic.

I can't believe the reviewers who insult the actors. Sorry, but this is a case in which, yes, you have to know a little tiny bit about Kingstown culture, speak, etc. to judge the actor. No, shelling out 45 clams doesn't make you a "bad mon." So for those not in the no, go with it. I've never seen a more realistic movie. The film crew just shoots, the actors do their thing, the sotry resonates as real, and the music is great. It's totally absent from Hollywood cliches except for the part in which Ivan, the protagonist, finds himself mimicking these cliches. This is brilliance! Anyone who has grown up or even spent time in outside of the US and Europe can dig this irony- a real criminal, who has  murdered people (so realistic), watching a packed probably pirated Hollywood gun-slinger flick... Ugh...

I'm white sort of but this Criterion crowd is elitist; I deal with you everyday. You give props to crap like Brazil and Donnie Darko and here you are whining  about the "tranfer" (huh????) and the acting (real people just won't do- we need Denzel and maybe an English black dude, maybe Halle Berry also??) Gimme a break!

From sales experience, the people who want this movie will buy it and I respect them. The people who reviewed this film however make me sick. Shame.