In On the Waterfront, all the elements of great film making meet so ideally that the subtext of Kazan's self-justification becomes a non-issue.  Those who dismiss the film because they villify its maker have a personal  ax to grind and forget that great art is often achieved by very flawed  artists.  The plot turns Greek tragedy (and Shakespearean) on its ear.  Brando's Terry Malloy is a self-proclaimed bum with no apparant redeeming  virtues.  But he rises to greatness when one virtue surfaces and exhalts  him.  It is not a sense of duty to break the corrupt union that saves him.  It is love--for his brother and for the girl whose brother he has helped to  murder, although unwittingly.  The acting, from Brando all the way to the  slightly smarmy government agents and the thugs and hangers-on who do  Johnny Friendly's dirty work, is supurb.  Kazan has said that Brando's  performance is the greatest in American film history, and I agree.  He is  so inventive and so unlike anything that had ever been seen at that time.  Though his character is certainly not subtle, Brando's performance is  immensely subtle.  I'll mention one emotion that is central to the theme of  the story: indecision.  In the scene in the bar (with Eva Marie Saint), he  suffers a moral agony unfamiliar to him as his attraction to her, his  horror at her brother's death, and his misplaced sense of "don't  squeal" values hold him in conflict.  This indecision comes to its  conclusion, again in a bar, when he struggles with the same sense of  allegiance and his hatred for Johnny Friendly.  Kazan achieves one his most  brilliant insights when Brando hurls the pistol at the mirror which holds  his own reflection: his decision is clear.  (Interestingly, Kazan used a  smashed mirror to convey an entirely different idea in  "Streetcar").  The music, which is indeed by Leornard Bernstein,  not Elmer, is as elemental, brutal, and blood-stirring as is Kazan's  direction and Brando's acting.  I've seen Citizen Kane and the other films  that some rate above this one, and I don't get it.  On the Waterfront is  America's great movie, the product of two geniuses at their best.