Near Dark is a vampire film with a look and feel unlike your typical fang-fest: daylight is harsh and painful, while the quicksand-lull of shadows by night are at once sharp and surreal, altering the landscape and ensnaring the viewer unawares.

Co-written by Eric Red (writer of the original "The Hitcher") and Kathryn Bigelow (director of "Strange Days"), this film is a taut, smart and surly Western Vampire flick that still stands up to - and surpasses - today's standards of chop and spray film-making (thank goodness). This was a film with a vision, evolving out of the mid-80s when film-makers were still taking chances and the genres of old were a-changing. These are no walking corpses in molding black capes, hiding in coffins and dodging wooden stakes. These vampires mean business and the landscape in which they travel is as cruel and as unrelenting and as personable as are they.

Charactor development, the look and feel of the piece, plot, and snappy dialogue are those things that matter in Near Dark. If you're going to make a horror film, by god, make the thing. And the cast/crew/creators of Near Dark did just that.

I was a pre-teen when I first saw Near Dark, back in the late 80s. No movie before or since has left me with such an eerie memory of intensity, pain, and ... strangely enough given the subject matter ... a giddy sort of hope. As a kid the infamous "bar scene" nearly did me in, and provided fodder for nightmares this fearless horror-film watcher didn't think were possible. For years, just remembering that scene, was enough to keep me passing it by in the rental aisles.

But, being the admirer I am of many of the central cast in Near Dark, I couldn't stay away for long, and so I rewatched it with adult eyes. It was even better than I'd remembered it. I'm not ashamed to say I had to buy my own copy, which I watch every couple of months.

There is the naive and flirtacious Caleb Colten, perfectly cast in Adrian Pasdar (who plays the polar opposite in the deliciously wicked "Jim Profit" in the tv show "Profit", also now available on dvd) who meets the at once simple