What a classic, wow!  Don't believe one negative word you hear about this film.  Everyone knows that the songs are the best Rogers &amp; Hammerstein produced for one show.  The singing in the film and the renditions are fabulous.  The first time I saw this film I was 10 years old and, yes, it was in 1958 in an old, classic of a movie theater where the ushers were wearing suits.  I was totally entranced by this great film at that time and still am today.  Mitzi Gaynor and Rossano Brazzi were excellent selections-- I don't think Mary Martin would have been any better.  John Kerr looked exactly like a young Marine lieutenant circa 1942.  Sure, ladies, it could have been someone who was known for having knockout looks, but they would not have been as effective.  And France Nuyen captures the essence of a native girl like no one else and that was good casting opposite Kerr.  
To me, the greatest achievement of this film is that Joshua Logan absolutely captured everything about the early 1940s in that cast of characters.  Mitzi Gaynor has a 1940s face and style, and looked exactly like a Navy nurse.  The same is true for the other characters but especially so for Kerr.  If you look at war footage from the Pacific theater, you'll see hundreds of Marines with frames exactly like Kerr's.  No one lifted weights back then so no one had the "body cuts" of a weight lifter.  He looked just like a Marine Lt from WWII should have looked-- tall, very lean, serious but a kid at the same time.  He was intense in the combat scene and very light during the scenes with Nuyen.  And Juanita Hall couldn't have been better; she will always be everyone's vision of Bloody Mary.
Logan manages to take you back to that time over and over again even though it was filmed 15 years later.  When I watch it today I know that the smells were different, the mindset was different, the clothes were different, the cultures were different, the people were different, and life was different; perhaps simpler.  Logan capture all of that for us to see over and over again.  Plus, he did it in a way that makes the racial point but does it without being vulgar.
South Pacific captures the World War II era in the same way that Gone with the Wind captures the Civil War era.  We can never go back to those times, but Logan helps make time stand still.  Best of all was his casting.  This version of South Pacific is one of my all time favorite films and no classic film library should be without it.  Buy it. Watch it. Love it!