When I was a little kid, I couldn't get this film at all, but when I heard many positive reviews of this film, some saying that it was the best Disney film ever, I decided to give it another shot. So, I bought the DVD, and now, it's starting to grow on me! I now fully agree that this is the best Disney film I've seen! It's no wonder this film won 5 Academy Awards! Songs like "Chim Chim Cher-ee" "Spoonful of Sugar" "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" will always get stuck inside your head!

This will always be Julie Andrews best character, no matter how many films she makes. She does a perfect job with Mary Poppins, and yet, she can really sing! No wonder she was that good in Broadway! I believe Walt Disney made a perfect choice to hire Julie Andrews as Mary Poppins!

Dick Van Dyke ROCKS! He's really funnier than ever, playing as Bert, and yet, he's also a great dancer! I really laughed when he laughs in different stages during the scene with Uncle Albert. Another perfect selection made by Walt Disney!

The Special Effects were PERFECT! I've learned that Cherry Tree Lane was actually in the indoor stage, but I thought at first that it took place in London! It's no doubt the best set I've ever seen. Also, I was really surprised when they wanted this to look like a Broadway stage! I really thought they succeeded in doing that when they were doing the song, "Step in Time," which had really perfect energy, and there were no accidents, which really amazed me! I was also impressed that when the Nannies were blew away by a strong wind, and Mary Poppins flying to and from the Banks' house, or all of the Uncle Albert footage, or all the scenes in which they fly, you CAN'T see a SINGLE wire! The fireworks sounds were perfect on the 5.1 mixed edition! I can go on and on, but I'm all out of ideas!

Behind the Scenes and Trailers were a perfect help for the Disc 2 edition. It also has a new short called, "The Cat that Looked at the King." While having an okay title, this short was very good. It would be a shame that it would not win an Oscar.

I give this movie a solid +10/10

I give this DVD a solid +10/10 for having a perfect video and audio presentations! The video was so enchanting, that I couldn't see a single scratch! The audio was amazing, but I'd stick with the 5.1 mix!

Get this DVD for not only the kids, but for the adults too!

I'm sure that everyone around the world will find this movie and this DVD, "SUPERCALIFRAGILISTICEXPIALIDOCIOUS!!!"