I rarely write reviews but was moved to do so by this movie. Or rather by the sad reaction I had.
I am one of the few North Americans privileged and moved by visits to the massed graveyards of NW France ; visiting Thiepval was a most cathartic experience. I have also read every book I can about the western front. Ever since being a schoolboy I have been in awe and haunted by our war dead. Their names are written all over memorials in my school wall and in countless towns and tiny villages. (I was raised not 20 miles from the home depot of the Lancashire fusiliers and 5 miles from the "Accrington pals").The Somme and Ypres and Vimy and Passchendaele were always synonymous with tragedy and suffering and sad duty.

Though I felt the producers wanted to convey this (tragedy and suffering) and more broadly educate, the film missed the mark. There are true war stories that are remarkable by their unlikely natures, yet surely this tale takes the gold-prize for implausible co-incidences? Even if, by some tweak of outrageous fortune, this is based on a true story, why couldn't they stick to a more typical yet equally poignant plot? I wont even go into the things that happen....Some of the combat scenes are believable in part, but the rest.......

Despite this movie, there is so much more to still to say about WW1 and Canada's outstanding contribution (besides the horror and misery and loss, the Newfoundlanders, and the success of the Canadian Army in finally teaching the Allies how to break the deadlock of trench warfare.) That these aspects are seemingly trivialized by the nature of the plot is very sad. We had "All quiet etc" from the German side (2movies), the French have "Paths to Glory" and "Gallipoli" from the Aussies. Now we have Passendaele for the Canadians: I would think that few could be happy with these comparisons, wether Canadians , movie critics or historians.

Which makes me ask : when will Britain break her code of sad silence about WW1? I always got the impression that the subject was almost too "holy" to attempt. Too tragic to ever convey in film. So far, we've had "oh oh oh what a lovely war" a cynical comedy. But probably a better reaction than this movie. All I can think of is "Behind the lines" a fine production of the Booker prize winning "Regeneration" by Pat Barker. This dealt more with  the humane treatment of "shell shock" and war protest, than a national memorial. Maybe "My Boy Jack" will do . "Lest we forget".