Spoilers below - you have been warned.

I really liked the first Ip Man film and it's a tribute to that movie that I gave this one a chance.  Subtitles are not my thing.  The film begins with Ip Man in Hong Kong trying to establish a martial arts school. He runs into some bad guys and kicks a sizeable amount of @ss.  Everything is looking good - I'm totally on board.  He then has to prove himself to the city's other Kung Fu masters and we get to see the best fight in the movie, where Ip faces off against Master Huang and does some incredible acrobatics as they do battle on top of a giant, wobbly table.  Trust me, it's a great scene.  Neither man actually wins the fight, but it is apparent to me that Master Huang will be the villain of this movie and that's a good thing, because Master Huang is quite awesome even though he's about 60 years old and is running the city's docks using the power of his mighty martial arts militia.

But then Ip and Huang learn a life lesson, and respect is shared, and they have some sort of bonding moment going on.  Which is when "Twister" the English boxer shows up and this film goes straight into the toilet.  Twister appears to be a Middleweight boxer and the most imposing thing about him is that he's sporting a six-pack.  During a public martial arts demonstration Twister challenges an 8-man team and proceeds to WIN.  Color me shocked.  But who knows ... maybe they were all white belts, or something?  After the ruckus dies down, Master Huang defends the honor of Chinese martial arts and steps into the ring.  Let me give some background.  10 minutes ago we just saw Huang throw a rickety chair on top of another rickety chair, then leap 15ft into the air on top of them both, and then somersault onto a wobbly table where he fought Ip Man to a draw.  The same Ip Man that killed 10 Japanese fighters in the first film without breaking too much of a sweat.  To put it bluntly, I'm expecting this fight to last about 3 seconds, the conclusion of which will probably be with Twister's decapitated head rolling down the aisle after Huang puts a foot to the side of his skull, Billy-Jack style.  Well, not so much. Huang gets beaten to death.  Literally.

I won't go into any more of the movie.  Twister is awful, and I've seen people walking down the street that could kick his butt.  Your hero can only be as good as your villain and challenging Twister has all the emotional impact of, "do we need to buy more toilet paper?"  I was so disappointed by the last half of this film that I can't give it more than one star.