Generally speaking I abhor most of the films sheltering under the umbrella-genre of "teen comedy". The idea of a film made specifically to gratify the insecure and the horny makes me kind of queasy. In an entertained sort of way. 
But...10 Things I Hate About You, despite its cringe-worthy title, is a cut and a jump above the rest. Lay to rest the ghosts of "She's All That" and other related Freddie Prince Jnr cast-offs and worship at the altar of a truly funny slice of teen life. 
You know the drill. 10 Things is based loosely around the lesser-known Shakespeare play "The Taming of the Shrew". And, against all expectations the adaptation is intelligently done. The interaction of Shakespearian dialogue and ultra-trendy American teen speak is blended without hesitation. "I burn, I perish, I pine..." proclaims the love-struck Cameron in the words of the bard himself. "Put her in your spank-bank and move on" replies his Tranio-a-like sidekick Michael. The more you know about the Shakespeare play, the more you'll appreciate the subtleties of 10 Thing's referencing. Of course the plot isn't exact, but its themes are maintained in healthy condition throughout. 
So, this is a production that didn't take its script-writing according to formular. Some of the one-liners are literally classic, and the supporting cast, particularly Miss Perky, school councillar and erotic novelist extroadinaire, are different and lively.  
That doesn't mean, however, that the star acting suffers. The cast has strong leaders in Heath Ledger and Julia Stiles, both of whom transcend and epitomise the teen hero/heroine simultaneously. Refreshingly, Stile's character doesn't succumb to being objectified by her inevitable good lucks. Ledger doesn't just convince her that wearing a dress is going to make her a more convincing "girl". Of course guy does get girl, but in the same way girl thoroughly establishes herself as equal to said guy. And looses none of her expressive capacity.
The scaffolding sub-plot also turns out some cracking performances from the likes of Joseph Gordon-Hewitt as Cameron (you'll recognise him as the kid from 3rd Rock from the Sun), and the pretty Larisa Oleynik as Bianca. 
Mix all of the above ... with the likes of Letters from Cleo enjoying several cameo moments and you've got a movie that could very well join "Empire Records" as teen classic material.