Renny Harlin brings us another in a long line of really bad  action/adventure movies (Remeber, the man is responsible for "Cut  Throat Island") and while "Deep Blue Sea" isn't nearly as  bad as "Die Hard 2" there's little redeeming value here.
The  plot centers on a floating research lab (formerly a U.S. Navy submarine  re-supplying station) in the middle of the Pacific.  While trying to find a  cure for Alzheimers disease, the scientists have created super-smart sharks  in order to harvest chemicals from their brain stems.  
Let's see how  many Jaws rip-offs/horror movie cliche's we can pack into the first 15  minutes?  Well, one of the sharks escapes and attacks ("this was no  boating accident") two couples out for a sail before a very Quint like  shark wrangler saves the day with some tranquilizers.  The mad scientist  (She has to die, it's her fault, call it the poetic justice rule of horror  films) begs to be allowed to complete her work despite the danger to human  life.  The crew of the research station heads to shore.  ("We run a  skeleton crew on the weekends.")  Suffice to say, that later, as Sam  Jackson's character delivers a diatribe on the nature of survival, you  pretty much know he's going to end up as chum.
What else...Well,  according to this film, you can keep a zippo lighter underwater for about  half an hour yet have no trouble at all getting it to light.  Nearly an  hour after the expository lines on the former Navy station, we're treated  to an underwater shot complete with a sunken submarine, if you weren't  paying attention you might wonder why it's there.
In the spirit of Joe  Bob Brigs, awards for quality performances go to Sam Jackson on being lost  in an avalanche, "Ice is a powerful thing, but it's nothing compared  to a man."  Saffron Burrows as the mad scientist, "it may be  super smart, but it's still just an animal.  Come to Mama."  L.L. Cool  J on revenge, "You ate my bird!"  and Michael Rappaport as the  Shark is being lifted into the station for research, "Anyone order the  fish?"
There's nothing here that you haven't seen in better movies  before.