This is a beautifully constructed movie with layers of enjoyment for critical appreciation far beyond the lush music, visual images, and simple story line.  It is a notable example of movie-making craft.  Its ability to weave suspense, curiosity, and anticipation through dramatic techniques such as juxtaposition of scenes and dramatic irony without seeming too cliched are a tribute to both production and direction. Repeated viewings continue to unearth little gems of writing and direction.  For example, early in the film 17th century violin maker Bussotti smashes an employee's handiwork because it's only fit for ordinary people to play and therefore not worthy to carry his name; his own personally crafted masterpiece, the Red Violin, susequently follows the exact path he demeans and goes on to provide the story of the film.  This single line of dialogue is easily missed; it may seem that the point is just to portray Bussotti as a cranky old git but on a second viewing you catch how his words eerily foretell the future. This is the kind of device that may not register on first impression because the viewer's attention is easily wrapt through the rich cinematographic images, music and a grasping of the notion that there is actually a plot, not just a storyline - and it's a plot with a nice little twist at the end, perhaps a little incredulous but nicely befitting the journey.  Although parts of the movie are fanciful they are imaginative and contrast well with the prosaicness of other aspects of the humand condition.  In the auction house climax, where the historied Red Violin is offered for 20th century sale, the passions of art and money clash head on. But in fact, the movie pits different passions together throughout and so weaves a convincing and wonderful belief that art and passion are not only mutual fuels - whether involving love, money, or politics - but that they inseperable.  This takes the sensitive viewer on an emotional roller coaster ride as it is hard not to feel the passions represented on the screen and underscored by the music.  Picasso said that art is a lie which tells us a truth and this movie meets the criteria. When all is said and done, the fictitious story of the Red Violin tells us more about ourselves than it does about musical instruments. It raises questions about human motivations, ethics, and loyalties that go on long after the movie is over.  Watch it because it's simply a nice little movie, satisfying to the senses and undemanding in its ability to offer pleasure. Savor it because it is a piece of art.  Leave it on the shelf if you're not appreciative of romantic music or the kind of person who doesn't enjoy turning the pages of a good book.