Well, in my house we're down to the last two episodes of The Complete Fourth Season. Just as with the first three season DVDs, we've carefully parceled out the episodes for viewing because we know how unbearably long it is between releases of these DVDs. Sometimes we splurge and watch two episodes in a row. Now, however, we are down to two remaining and once again, I've taken to scanning the Amazon website for any sign of the next DVD in the series only to find disappointment. Why does it take so long between releases of the next season on DVD? Why??

This is the very best television there ever was - yes, that's right: ever. Do not miss the opportunity to bring the little discs which preserve this television series right into your own home, whether they are encased in parkas (seasons 1-3) or not.

To those who, DVD release after DVD release, keep carping about the music, I say: please stop. Your point has been made - and made and made. There is nothing to be done about that issue. It is possible that you are affecting sales of the DVDs with your repetitiously negative comments about the music and that would be a terrible shame. The music was what it was and is what it is. Either way, it is wonderful, delightful music accompanying the best television show ever. You are looking at it with the eyes of nostalgia ("things can never be as good as they were; I miss how things were...")  versus looking with child's eyes ("isn't this wonderful!")

I appreciate art as much as the next guy and don't want it "messed with" but, you know, Venus used to have arms. Would you rather not see a work at all because you can't see it the way it once was? That is a rigid nostalgia, isn't it? I agree with your point essentially, but what can you do about it? I also hated - and still hate - the Ted Turner colorization of the great old movies and when I have a choice, I only go for the black and white version. We don't have a choice with these Northern Exposure DVDs and anyway, the fact is that the music on the DVDs is still very good.

It's an extraordinarily wonderful show, in its original form and now on these DVDs. In my opinion the ONLY problem with these DVDs is that they are so very slow to be released.