In this intense and enlightening interview, Bill Moyers interrogates Joseph Campbell about his theories and ideologies of myth.  As this is the favorite subject of Campbell, he always offers exquisite words of wisdom to support myths and the "life-cycle" of a hero.  He stated, "Mythology is the song of the universe to me."  Throughout history, the pattern of heroic acts and heroes is inevitable and seen in numerous occasions.  The heroic cycle is definitely as subject that is worth writing, and thus, it is obvious in numerous classic literary works.  Heroes have evolved with our culture to suite the morals of the particular time periods.
  Campbell has become such a renowned figure in our society because of his theory that in epic tales, they are all generally plotted alike.  He explains that in the beginning of a hero's adventure, there is one moral objective.  The heroes must sacrifice themselves to save others.  As seen with Moses, Buddha, Jesus Christ and infinite other heroes, there are three essential parts to the adventure:  departure, fulfillment, and return.  Throughout this journey, Campbell believes that the child within the hero must "die" to complete the passage into adulthood or to complete the journey.  The adventure is always one that the hero is prepared to undergo or conquer.  The hero gains wisdom and strength throughout this process to return as a successful figure.  The return involves him being highly regarded in society as opposed to his former lower status.  At his return to society, the hero is also rewarded with a grand prize that was promised by an exceptional figure that he idolizes.
 If a viewer is looking for high-quality entertainment, then this is probably not the appropriate feature to watch.  However, we gain great knowledge of the "hero that lies within us all."  Throughout the interview, Campbell relates different components of stories, such as dragons, Indians, and snakes to relate them with different aspects of life and to enliven the movie.  The insightful feature fills viewers with knowledge that is often ignored by society, and his most impacting wisdom is to not let one's brain interfere with life but to "listen to your heart-life."  He truly believes that everyone has the capabilities to release the hero that resides within us all.
"Live life with a knowledge of its mystery."
Joseph Campbell