I've owned the Criterion edition of "Robocop" for years now so I bought this 20th anniversary DVD strictly for the featurettes. The Commentary with Director Paul Verhoeven, Writer Ed Neumeier and Executive Producer Jon Davison (A+) is still great and worth the price of admission right there. I would rank the best featurettes in this order (No spoilers): Villains Of Old Detroit Featurette(A+)  ,  Special Effects: Then And Now Featurette(A), Robocop: Creating A Legend Featurette(A), (all three recent productions) Flesh And Steel: The Making Of Robocop Featurette(A), Shooting Robocop Featurette(B) & Making Robocop Featurette(B) (Older productions).
Since we've all seen the movie, I would recommend that if this movie is in your top ten all time, buy this 20th anniversary edition, those first three featurettes plus the commentary are worth the purchase price alone. I was disappointed by the deleted scenes. I had read about their content but they ended up adding nothing to the experience but no matter, still nice to see them.
If you are debating on purchasing the Robo-trilogy instead to save money, don't even considering buying the 20th anniversary edition. IMHO, the 20th anniversary edition is strictly for the Robo-connoisseurs, those who truly love and "get" the movie with all it's extreme violence, innuendoes and political satire. "I'd buy that for a dollar!"
The movie is the movie, we've all seen it. It's Verhoeven best work. The violence and intensity pull you in and pound you senselessly. The humanity and humor make it roller coaster ride with an ending that is as satisfying as it is unexpected. Easily one of the best Sci-Fi or action movies of all time.
Two versions here, the theatrical version and I believe the director's original "X-rated" version. I have to defer to others as to the exact cut of this version vs. what appears on the Criterion disk, no frame by frame analysis here.
Peter Weller does appear in some of the featurettes as well.  If you are wondering what he's been up to outside of the entertainment industry, Weller holds a Masters Degree in Roman and Renaissance Art, and is an occasional lecturer at Syracuse University on the subject of Hollywood and the Roman Empire. Wow, how cool is that? "Good business is where you find it." Go Robo!