For me this was the most socking movie I have ever seen. I wanted to compare it with another impressive movie, Khandehar, which I saw afterward.  And of course I can compare it up to a certain point. Both movies describe the Taliban oppressive fundamentalist regime, where the life of women is reduced or even wide out from history; they are regarded as a marginal force who are hidden literally from any view and in all the possible ways: physically - they are forced to wear burkas, spiritually - they have to role, political and social - they are just an invisible population.

People with guns are all over and there is a threatening atmosphere in the streets, in the houses, in the little shops, even in the desert. All live in fear, obeying to the Taliban's regime. Miseries of the daily life are endured by the civil population, most of them struggling for their daily survival. And if they are lucky enough to survive the day, the next day can be worse.

Osama is both powerfully shocking and simple. Osama, is the first movie produced by Afghanistan filmmakers after the fall of the Taliban. Women are not allowed to work, but they have to find a way to support themselves and their families. A widow disguises her young daughter, as a boy so she can work somewhere and in this way would support herself and her mother. The name of the girl became Osama.

Osama's mother asked someone who used to be a friend of her husband, to let Osama work for something to eat. He accepted being aware that it is at a great risk. So, by the end of the day, Osama walked the scary streets back home with something to eat for her mother and grandmother who were hidden in the house.

Women live totally dependent on men and at the will of the Taliban. They loose any identity as women and any hopes for the future.

Osama is shy and does not really understand the life around her. She does things because she is told to do so and cries a lot.

When the Taliban police look after new boy recruits for their indoctrinating program in the local school, Osama is taken to join their program against her will. What would happen then with her family is easy to guess, since the girl is taken by force and there is no way to return...

She is expected to behave as all the other boys and she tries hard. But she is sensitive and cries and can not perform the physical exercises as the others. She passes well the "cleaning lesson" when everybody is almost naked and has to perform a cleaning ritual.

Boys and men around notice that her body is feminine and tease and chase her because of that. The other boys would harass her because she, Osama, looks like a girl. One single orphan from the street who knows her secret tries to persuade the mob that she is a boy and in doing so, he asked her to climb a tree. She did well going up the tree, the problem was that she could not come down. So, she drove the attention of the chief Taliban and after one day punishment on top of a pit, something happened and they all realized she was a girl.

She was sent to the public trial where she is sold to an old Taliban who would take her to his place and keep her locked together with his other so called wives.

And in this way they considered that "justice has been done" ...

The cruel fate of Osama can be an exponent of all Afgan women whose lives were banished. Her fragility and innocence is shown on the background of an absolute cruelty. Osama does not speak very much in the movie, there is nothing to speak about. There is a deep sadness shown in her eyes.

The art of the director of this movie is even greater because he uses non-actors for the roles in the film and their acts put together built the most powerful real movie I have ever seen.

It is sad to know that this place and kind of life exist in the world, but it is even sadder not to know about it.