It's really a pleasure to see all these great actos together in one movie. Spephen Daldry's "The Hors", about three women in different times is a beautiful masterpiece. 
Virginia Woolf (performed by Nicole Kidman) is in the 1920s writing her book "Mrs. Dalloway" (near of London), Laura Brown (Julianne Moore) is reading it in 1954 (in L.A.), and Clarissa Vaughn (Meryl Streep) is living the Mrs. Dalloway's life in the today-New York. This three women have the same character: They're living a life they don't want to live.
The film received 9 Oscar-Nominations, also for the best director - Daldry -, the best script - David Hare adapted very well Michael Cunningham's book "The Hours", and the best Film. It WAS one of the best films in 2003, maybe the best, with "Far From Heaven" and "Chicago" and "The Pianist". And the film with the most best actors: Nicole Kidman received an Oscar for her Virginia Woolf-playing, she makes herself little and small and ugly and you almoust forget it's Kidman who's there on the scope (perhaps also because of her wrong nose??).
Meryl Streep is laudable and brillant as Clarissa, there are small moments where you know she is a really great actress. For example the scene in the kitchen when Jeff Daniels is standing there and she beginns to crie, when she reallizes she is living a wrong life. Than you can see what's a real high-acting-level.
But actually the attraction, the best actress of the movie is Julianne Moore. Her performance is outsanding, and it's just not understandable why she didn't received an Oscar and just a nomination. With "Far From Heaven" and "The Hours" it's clear that she is one of the best actresses in our time. Maybe THE BEST. You can't describe her wonderfull acting...
A great actor-ensemble (also in supporting roles included Oscar-nominated Ed Harris - grand as ill poet and Clarissa's friend -, Toni Collete, John C. Reilly, Eelien Atkins, Miranda Richardson, Claire Danes, and many others) in an unforgettable film-event.
Virginia Woolf would be proud.