In the film business it's called counter-programming: Provide moviegoers - usually women - with an alternative to the weekend's big opener.

And so, on the opening weekend of Martin Scorsese's pointless, nihilistic gangster picture "The Departed," in waltzes "Employee of the Month," also pointless, but also amusing satire about supermarket cashiers. And judging by her wardrobe, Jessica Simpson's chest is the other key topic. The better to distract you from her acting, I guess.

Directed and co-written by Greg Coolidge, it's not on par with Jennifer Aniston's "The Good Girl," but the movie does benefit from a likable newcomer in Dane Cook and a committed, funny turn by Dax Shepard, one alumni of "Punk'd" who at least knows where his bread is buttered.

Shepard plays Vince, the cashier at Super Club - a spoof of Sam's Club - with so fast a conveyor belt he's been called "the fastest hands in the Southwest." Vince is a professional sycophant who squirrels his way into the employee of the month award so many times, he's now eligible for the "grande prize" of a managerial promotion and a "newish" 2004 Chevy Malibu.

Slacker boxboy Zach (Cook) is the store clown who suddenly decides to compete for the award when a new cashier named Amy (Simpson) starts at Super Club and Vince fixes his gaze on her.

"Employee of the Month" has its moments. The "cashier's lounge" is cleverly presented as a kind of airline pilot's den of leather furniture and free soft drinks. Vince "rescues" a lost child and emerges from a haze of cold air that bursts out of a freezer-food door. And weirdo Andy Dick gets a few off as a nearly-blind optometrist.

Cook has some of that Ryan Reynolds look and appeal: Relaxed, confident, slightly moronic. Shepherd and his "assistant," played by Efren Ramirez are a good duo. The rest of the movie is copied, chapter and verse, from The Book of Sandler: Profane elderly women, a bullying dwarf, random shots at immigrants and gays, and, of course, the "lesson" of personal pride and self-discovery.

But let's get one thing straight: Jessica Simpson seems nice enough, even if she marches to Daddy's drum in her music career and personal life. Maybe Pops put her up to this, because you're not going to see a more uncomfortable performance this fall. It's not that Simpson can't act - she does not appear to know how. Her looks and reactions come off as inquisitions toward her director: "Is this how I should be?"

Coolidge, possibly by necessity, keeps her out of much of the movie. But each time she's in it, she's wearing low-cut, look-at-these! shirts and dresses that undercut whatever goal Simpson might have had in creating a character. The singer has a steep enough hill to climb without being unwittingly objectified in every scene.