I have come to expect, after a bunch of great Trek double DVD's with awesome features and bonus material and Okuda's hilarious and respectful commentary (and a million other both entertaining and educational pieces), to see perhaps the greatest Trek film of all with all the great features. I realize there is no need for a director's cut since the film really is perfect as is, but I would like to see how Frakes worked in putting it together - this movie has several threads, woven together with the skill of a master and the love of the Star Trek dream. (And anyone who is tired of Data's search for humanity can just watch the Kirk crew forever, without a thought to what Rodenberry wanted: a increasingly brighter future wrought from the struggle and suffering of our beloved characters. Kirk struggled to his proper end admirably, and with significant fan input.) They are taking too long between films, which suggests that perhaps film itself is the wrong venue for the TNG crew to continue into the 21st century. This one may be the last of that type to really work because the next two just didn't cut it and the "last" one was not even in the Trek spirit and actually ended with a suicide! Ugh! I would suggest an HBO mini-series (or several-part "film") for the smaller screen since the small screen are getting bigger and better and concessions do not have to be made for young teens (unless they, too, are true trekkers, who want a good production such as this). The "action" in "First Contact" makes sense, and does not draw attention to itself, but simply works to make a better picture. I agree, maybe these actors do not want to get so old that they "outlive their usefulness" and perhaps "First Contact" might be a great send-off itself, but since it was not, we need first, a good, goodie-filled double-DVD of "First Contact" packed with extras, and then a grand finale worthy of Rodenberry's vision (as is "First Contact," of course).

Once this is released with two full DVD's packed with bonus goodies, it gets five stars!

All the best to the future!

RM