Sean Penn as a director is at least as interesting as is his work from acting and this movie proves it once again. It is the true story of Chris McCandless, wonderfully portrayed by Emile Hirsch, who, graduating at 22, seems to have a very promising future ahead of him being admitted into Harvard Law, but instead chooses not to fulfill his parent's dreams for him but pursue his own. In doing so he wanders through the US after leaving behind his worldly goods, including giving away 20000 dollars of savings to charity.
He breaks off all contact with his family and in the voiceover of his sister we gradually are handed pieces of the puzzle that lead him to do so. After more or less 2 years the trip ends in Alaska, after we've enjoyed a number of his interesting encounters with other people and many beautiful landscapes that made me want to pack my bags right there and then for another one of my cross country hikes.
The development of the rather naive Chris is both fascinating as well as moving and Penn treats his journey as a classic novel, even up to dividing his movie into chapters with titles like "birth" or "adolescence", for those who weren't quite clever enough to pick up on it.
What annoyed me the most about the movie was the music, which tries too hard to convey a certain atmosphere which distracts more than makes you focus. Penn seems to forget at times that old lesson that less is more and that the story is so powerful, it doesn't need this artificial boost of sentiment, but I guess being American, he just couldn't help himself, it is a national affliction after all.
However it's one of very few issues I had with the movie that signifies a marvelous contribution with full adherence to the rules and laws of a traditional road movie.
It's obvious that Penn has a lot of respect for this intelligent young man whose mind lives in his treasured books of writers like Tolstoy and Thoreau from whom he receives his life's lessons that serve to fuel his dreams of a pure and uncompromising life far away from anything materialistic and the corrupting influence of society. Unfortunately our hero is not able to see that all his philosophizing and travelling is just a self-deception to avoid dealing with the legacy of the dysfunctional past with his relatives and rather embrace a romantic philosophy of life in general and himself in particular. It is tragic that he eventually paid such a high price for this delusion.
Until quite far into the movie Sean Penn doesn't take any critical distance from his subject but rather chooses to immerse his movie in romantic notions and atmospheric photography and rather trite repetition  of the same adolescent ramblings.
As a viewer however this doesn't bother you at all and on first viewing you're eager to embrace the dramatic events and dreams of youth, passion and hope that we all want to catch again, even though at a certain point we learn that, though not an illusion, at least for those that have not yet sought refuge in misanthropy (a flight just as effective and opposite to the one Chris McCandless took), there is a more noble, though less attractive on the outside, heroism in defying the mud of day to day life in the midst of it rather than seeking oblivion in the remote wilderness. It's a little too easy and a bit like giving up of whom we are in our most fundamental level of being: a social animal. Chris McCandless too, in his last note, in one of his treasured books between the printed lines that so inspired him, comes to this conclusion and it is truly a heart breaking moment in the film.