Perhaps I was expecting too much based on the reviews I read of this movie.  Possibly I expected a bit more coherent of a story from Neil Gaiman, but ultimately this was a disappointing movie for me.

The selling point of this film is obviously the melding of a story from a great fantasy writer, Neil Gaiman, with the expertise of David McKean and the Jim Henson Company in bringing the film to life visually.  And for the most part the visual effects are fairly extraordinary in their portrayal of a surreal dreamworld.

Where the movie falls flat is in the plot.  The protagonist, Helena, is a girl in her early teens who is experiencing all the chafing with her parents, especially her mother, over her development as an independent person that all teens go through.  When her mother falls ill, the stress of the situation causes Helena to enter a dreamworld based on her own drawings.  This world consists of two domains ruled by queens, one of lightness and one of darkness.  The light queen, who is basically a idealized version of Helena's mother, has fallen asleep and can only be awoken with a charm called the mirrormask.  However, the mirromask was stolen by a princess from the dark domain, who turns out to be the anti-Helena.  The anti-Helena has also used the mirrormask to displace the real Helena in the real world, where she is busily destroying her relationship with her father and family by dressing like a goth girl, making out with boys, and burning Helena's drawings which are windows into the dreamworld.

This is all presented in kind of a hazy way, which could be excused if it didn't fall apart on it's own internal inconsistencies.  I get the idea that the light queen is Helena's mother.  I get the idea that the dark princess is the dark side of Helena.  And it makes sense that Helena's fight with her mother in the real world at the beginning of the film is symbolized by the dark princess putting the light queen into a never ending sleep by stealing the mirromask in the dreamworld.

But if the dreamworld existed in a state of balance before all this, where's the light princess?  You have a dark queen, and a light queen.  You have a dark princess, shouldn't you have a light one as well?  If the dark princess is the dark side of Helena, wouldn't the dark queen be the dark side of Helena's mother since the light queen is portrayed as the idealized (light) version of Helena's mother?

Another weird inconsistency is Helena's companion Valentine's vision of the future should he enter the real world.  He finds himself overwhelmed as a waiter and decides that instead of using the mirrormask himself as he intended, he should give it to Helena.  And then at the end of the film, he ends up in the real world anyway.  Go figure.

This is all probably quibbling, but these inconsistencies detract from the film.  It's still a film worth watching for the visual feast alone.