A very nicely packaged box set in a family album style- 12 pages of family photo's 3 DVD's and 1 C.D.

13 episodes of family jewels
plus extras
bonus disc- episode of the feature on Gene by the Biography channel
C.D. of 2 early (pre-kiss) demo's.

The family jewels series is a candid (mostly unrehearsed / unscripted)reality show featuring Gene, Shannon, Nick and Sophie (and quite a bit of Shannon's sister). Don't expect to see much of Kiss, this is Gene's show! it shows Gene and family at home, shopping, on holiday, at parties, goofing around, getting prepped for cosmetic surgery- normal family stuff - for multi millionaire families, i'm sure. it's pretty entertaining on the whole with only a few dull episodes. it has a few cringe-making moments too, with Gene embarrassing himself and his family embarrassing him too! the episode where he meets a fan is almost unbearable and he comes across as a little rude.

He comes across as a very caring and decent family man who works really hard and it makes you question just how much you think you know of Gene is possibly carefully marketed image- the number of women he's allegedly had sex with seems to increase in hundreds every time someone asks him about it!

the features on his office (inside the demon's lair) are a little disappointing- each family member shows you around in turn- but basically points out the same stuff, so you don't get to see as much as you could! the other show extra's are ok.

the bonus biography disc is the most disappointing thing about this set. not so much a biography as 'what Gene's up to this week. not much history there at all!

the bonus C.D. however is inspired. The quality makes you wonder if they were maybe recorded more recently ( he only says they were written long ago!) but the feel of the tracks is certainly 1960's. if this is a taste of the forthcoming Gene Simmons box set (Monster)it will be well worth a listen. think first solo album type of material.

overall, i was really pleased with this set and would love to see the second series on DVD! well  worth a look!!!