Some have described this as a 'feel good' movie, which in my opinion amounts to nothing more than accepting the average. Look it is not terrible, but is far from the hype afforded to it in both promotional material and these reviews. Gunn whilst convincing in his portrayal of a closeted 'jock' is a little stoic and at times seemed removed from what is happening around him. Whilst unsure of his parents reaction to him being gay, and somewhat terrified at the thought of loosing them should they react badly, he seems somewhat unaffected emotionally. In fact, the only time he shows any real emotion is when his boyfriend Nathan arrives unexpected at his childhood home to celebrate Christmas with him. I found the very nature of his reaction (being closeted) to be arbitrary, particularly in the face of Nathan's open flamboyance. Any reasonable person would have certainly raised eyebrows and been a little suspicious. In short the acting was okay, but the script (more accurately dialogue between characters) was trivial as if they were not entirely sure of what they had to portray. The actors did not seem to fit, but for the rather eccentric parents.

What I did like was the alter story, between Nathan and his 'girlfriend' aka the girl next door. Ultimately both characters, one straight and one gay, both portrayed ulterior versions of themselves to both society and their parents. The perverse irony being that 'closeted' personalities or sexuality what ever that may be, is not unique to the gay community. This could have been explored better, as I found the humour to be witty, dynamic and new. This was also true of the scathing sarcasm that existed between her and his mother, which at times had me replaying the conversation so that I did not miss the 'furious' exchanges.

In summary, the movie was painfully average. At times it was badly acted, with serious scenes feeling staged, and the more humorous scenes mechanical. I found Nathan to be entirely inappropriate, and his overstated sense of drama unnecessary to the story. Gunn was better, although marginally so.

Ultimately this movie is one that could! It could have been so much better. The casting could have been better. The script could have been better. The acting could have been better. So why settle for average?