Thomas Builds-the-Fire (Evan Adams) tells stories.  Anyone who has ever had a father, or a father figure should listen.  Smoke Signals is a movie about the stories we tell, about growing up sane in an insane world, and  about learning to find the truth in the fiction we create for  ourselves.
Based on short stories from Sherman Alexie's brilliant  collection of wit, irony and tragic comedy, The Lone Ranger and Tonto  Fistfight in Heaven, this film shows a sure hand and a light touch.  Sherman Alexie knows how to write with irony, wit and subtle humor, and in  this screenplay he captures perfectly, as he does in his book, the angst  that is uniquely 20th century American Indian.  As our two protagonists  prepare leave the reservation to claim Victor's (Adam Beach) dead father's  truck, a woman who drives backward around the reservation all day in her  Chevy tells them to be careful.  When they tell her they're only going to  Arizona (they live on the Coeur d'Alene reservation in Washington State),  she replies, "Unh . . . America, huh?  That's about as foreign as it  gets."
It is that bemused sense of being an outsider in your own  land that drives this independent film and gives it a genuine feel, rather  than the typical over-romanticized "Dances with Wolves" version  of Indian-ness.  Victor, in fact, takes vicious delight in both  perpetuating and defying Indian stereotypes, as he leads a chorus of  "John Wayne's Teeth" and councils Thomas, who wears thick glasses  and his long hair in braids, to look more fierce, "like you just got  back from killin' a buffalo or somthin."
It is Beach's performance  which seems the most stilted and amateurish, unfortunately, as one of the  major characters.  But he almost makes it work for him by internalizing  Victor's anger and creating another mask, however thin.  Another problem is  the romance that almost develops between Victor and his dead father's  neighbor (Irene Bedard).  Perhaps it was a choice between staying with the  major theme of the movie and "going Hollywood" on both the  casting and the plot in this case.  There is real heat when the two are on  screen, but it goes nowhere. 
These are two very minor irritations with  an otherwise delightful movie.  The universality of this coming of age  story, combined with its unique characters and point of view, make this a  video you're going to want to see again and again.  Buy it.