I've seen a lot of reviews for MINORITY REPORT, both good and bad, and have come to the conclusion that those who criticized the movie may have largely missed the point. With any movie that deals with future event/time travel, there are going to be minor inconsistencies or incidents that require some suspension of belief (BACK TO THE FUTURE 2 is a case in point here).
I'm not going to rehash much of the plot because you can read about it here on Amazon. Let's deal with some points about MINORITY REPORT's "flaws" first:
1) Some reviewers have mentioned the eyeball scenes where John Anderton (Tom Cruise) is able to gain access to government buildings. One reviewer said that the eyeballs would have started decomposing by that point. However, the movie does not specify how much time elapsed since Anderton's eyes were removed; in fact, we know it can have been no more than a day, because he is "scheduled" to commit murder in 36 hours, and that's way before his eyes are removed (i.e. more time has elapsed, so there is closer to 24 hours remaining).
2) I agree with others that some suspension of belief is required for when Anderton re-enters the Precrime Unit so he can kidnap Agatha. In such a "perfect" system, it seems highly unlikely that the authorities wouldn't revoke his access immediately when they realize he is wanted for a future murder.
3) Some reviewers have said that it would be impossible to predict the future because it hasn't happened yet. This concept depends on your beliefs (possibly religious) and your view on the paranormal. There are many who believe that hindsight and consequence are closely linked and that anything one does to try to alter the future is completely missing the point. Trying to change the future implies that it CAN be changed, when in reality it is already predetermined and your actions, including trying to alter any future events, are also predetermined. I will leave that for you to make you mind up about.
MINORITY REPORT is arguably one of Spielberg's finest movies for a long time, probably the best since SCHINDLER'S LIST, although the two are very different genres of films. It's an action movie, but only to some extent, because the action is always supporting the fascinating plot developments (and there are many) that keep the audience guessing. The action is great and some of the special effects scene are breathtaking, particularly the first chase scene which features a sprawling suburban freeway system, complete with futuristic vehicles and roadways. 
There are also many sinister moments, which portray a dark image of what life might be like in fifty years. One scene, where robotic spiders enter an apartment complex, is particularly sinister, with residents forced to submit to retinal scans so that the Precrime cops know that they are not the fugitive they are looking for.
The best moments of MINORITY REPORT are, however, not the action scenes, nor the sequences packed with special effects. It actually has some astonishing drama, with Cruise in his best form since JERRY MCGUIRE. One of the movie's climaxes (because there is more than one), where Anderton comes face to face with Leo Crow (the man he is supposedly destined to kill) for the first time, is heart-stopping stuff. Anderton has had no intention of killing Crow; after all, he doesn't even the man... but what he finds in Crow's apartment, as the clock counts down towards the moment he is meant to murder him, turns the whole movie on it's head. The question is now...will he or won't he pull the trigger?
The movie is worth watching just for this one sequence alone. If you liked THE MATRIX, BACK TO THE FUTURE, BLADE RUNNER (or even a lesser known made-for-TV series called MILLENNIUM [with Lance Henriksson] that aired in the 90's), you'll love MINORITY REPORT. Ignore the bad reviews and give the movie a chance. I'm the guy who foolishly walked out of the theater during THE MATRIX because I couldn't understand what was going on. When I watched it again on DVD, I loved it. Maybe those who doubt MINORITY REPORT need to sit down and watch it again. Open your minds and your wallets - you won't be disappointed.