A Series of Unfortunate Events is about one thing: an immersive experience. No detail is spared. The cinematography, designs, costumes, effects, music, the entire world is an incomparable artwork. Even if the rest of the movie was boring and annoying (which it's not), I would draw extreme pleasure and inspiration from the visuals and sounds.

Each time I watch it, I am even more awestruck by the craftsmanship, creativity, and flawless presentation. I love movies, however, this is one of only four films I own because it actually has replay value. The creative accomplishments of A Series of Unfortunate Events are rare amongst ANY artform. So, despite any shortcomings there may be in the plot, characters, etc., I have to give it five stars.

Many movie-goers, especially those with children, seem to be exclusively interested in moderation. That's why so many people are put-off by the dreary atmosphere, Jim Carrey's indulgent "over-acting," or the apparent simplicity of the story. If you are one of those people, that's not a bad thing, you like what you like...but I hope the day comes when your interest in such moderation is overcome by a startling artwork or life experience. And if you ever do gain more appreciation for less penetrable and more extreme things, I invite you to give this film another chance.

There are three types of expectations that seem to plague viewers' misunderstandings about this film:

1.Many reviewers here mention that the movie isn't funny, but seems to be billed as a comedy. And, hey! There's Jim Carrey! He's a comedian and he's acting all goofy, this movie is supposed to be funny! Wrong. There are some silly parts that are worth a giggle. But just because the movie is odd and tongue-in-cheek, that doesn't mean it is trying to be funny. I think the uneasy camp and theatricality without being overtly humorous is a rare quality that helps to enrich the film's environment.

2. There are also people who are upset because the movie is "supposed" to be for children, but apparently is not. Well, it IS rated PG (that means Parental -Guidance- for humans who haven't reached the age of reason). That doesn't mean it's bad because you expected something to show your child, that simply means it's not for your child. There is a lot of art that is not for your child, but that doesn't have anything to do with its quality.

3. Some believe that the movie does not do the books justice. First off, I can't think of a single movie based on a good book that can equal the book. Doing justice to a book through a film just doesn't work. The film is not intended as a summary or stand-in for the books, and if that's what you're looking for, just read the books again. I mentioned at the beginning that the main point of this movie is an immersive experience. Books don't have visuals and sound. Books are all about the reader's imagination. And the intense, detailed artistry of the film attempts, very successfully, to recreate the way in which we dive into our imaginations while reading. The books do their job, the movie does its job, so please, allow them to do their separate jobs without having to worry about what the other one is doing.

To the people who were expecting a comedy or a movie for all children (such as one that is rated G, not one that is rated PG), or simply a recreation of the books, I invite you to check your expectations at the door in the future. That might not help you enjoy this film, but it might allow you to enjoy other films down the road.

This is already too long, so I won't address the characters, casting, acting, or script, except to say that they are passable at worst and excellent at best, but all suitable for the end result. Some movies are built solely on their characters and/or performances. A Series of Unfortunate Events is not one of those movies. None of those aspects, no matter how good or bad, will make or break this film.

Finally, I'll address the story. No matter how simple or how complex a movie's plot, the driving force is conflict. The conflict in A Series of Unfortunate Events is everpresent, pushing the movie onward. There are multiple kinds of conflict operating, sometimes all at once. The superficial, episodic sort of conflict that arises with each new guardian and location. The persistent and overarching conflict of Count Olaf's pursuit. The background conflict that gradually interconnects the episodic conflict and grand conflicts to each other AND to the characters history, present, and future (and even further, to some of the underlying themes of the film). No matter how simple or predictable the story can be, there is always clear conflict, always demanding resolution.

I like this movie.