Let me start by saying that just because I had previously read and enjoyed the graphic novel doesn't mean that I'm against the movie because you have to realize that things must be changed in order to move from one medium to another.

The Goods:
Jackie Earle Haley- Haley is the standout of this movie, capturing the spirit and characterization of Rorschach and wonderfully presenting his own interpretation.  Fans of the character will be happy with the onscreen Rorschach, Haley bring some new to the already familiar.  Depending on the rest of the movies coming out this year and following the win of Heath Ledger, an Academy Award nomination for Haley's performance may not be out of the question.

The Opening Credits- Set in an alternate future/present, director Zack Snyder needed to inform the audience of just what kind of alternate reality to expect.  Cue the opening credits, a beautiful montage of scenes covering information that movie wouldn't cover from the graphic novel.  By far this was my favorite part of the movie.

Jeffrey Dean Morgan- In a small, but pivotal role, Morgan takes on The Comedian.  Seeing the world as a cruel, sick joke, The Comedian takes it upon himself to deliver the punchlines that nobody asked for.  Morgan takes this role and makes it into a character you either love hating or hate to love.

The Okays:
The Ending- Without spoiling anything, the ending works, but could have been better.  The graphic novel ending worked because of the events leading up to it and with exclusion of such information, the ending had to be changed.  The new ending made sense with the direction of the movie, but one could argue that it was a cop-out and another choice could have been made.

Billy Crudup- As Jon Osterman, more commonly known by his hero name Doctor Manhattan, is the only character with powers.  Presented as a character that lacks human emotion, Crudup does well.  Unfortunately nothing new is brought to the character, leaving a see through personality that gets little to no depth despite having his own back story.

The Bads:
Malin Akerman- Stealing the show in a negative way, Akerman is in the movie for no other reason than to have people look at.  After a string of movies that gloss over her role, she now takes on a central character, doing a horrible job.  In terms of the acting, I can safely say she is the worst part.

The Soundtrack- The soundtrack itself is great if listened to on its own, but when played over the movie it becomes atrocious.  One could make the argument that the songs fit perfectly within the movie, but it seems like the songs fit the movie too well, turning good songs and good scenes into cringe worthy segments of cheesiness.

The Direction- When I first heard that Zack Snyder was taking on the directing duties I knew one thing for sure, Snyder would do his best to make the movie as close to the source material as he possibly could.  While most times this is what the fans want, it more or less backfired for Watchmen.  Snyder took the script and then added in as much of the small background information as he could, whether or not there were any in text acknowledgement of the subjects at hand.  The primary example is the existence of Bubastis, the pet of one of the characters.  Because of the change in the ending and the antagonist's motivations, the creature has no relevance or explanation of why it's in the movie to begin with.

All in all the subject says it all: I feel that there's more bad than there is good, but it's probably the best adaptation one could hope for.  Many people will love it for a fun go-to movie for a good time, others will hated it because of the little things.  Overall it isn't a bad movie, but not something every fan of the graphic novel would love either.

My grade: 3.5/5