Stanley Kramer was a competent filmmaker who had a progressive, liberal

point of view, often way before it was fashionable, on almost all social issues. It's hard to look at some of his films today without groaning, but they are all well meaning, if often way past gooey. Except for "Judgement At Nuremberg" and maybe "Inherit the Wind", all of them seem badly dated. The worst of the lot, "Guess Who's Coming To Dinner" is almost unwatchable.

The screenplay by Leonard Rose (which,unbelivably, won an Academy Award!)seems out of step even for the 60's. The plot is ludicrous and patronizing;the biracial couple is so perfect one would think they landed from another planet. Did Mr. Poitier HAVE to be a doctor? Why not president? There is never the slightest doubt as to what is going to happen next in this film. All of the characters are stock, the storyline totally predictable and banal.  For those suffering from A.D.D., poor Spencer Tracy gives a nice, long, sweet speech at the end which summarizes, verbatim, everything you've just had to suffer through the past hour and a half.

The acting, except for Beah Richards, is uniformly bad (though with this story no one,not even Mr. Tracy, has a chance to do anything other than be cute).Ms. Houghten was pretty but talently challenged.Ms. Hepburn is especially dreadful in what is actually a rather small part. This was the start of the teary eyes,quivering chin (I am NOT referring to her neurological disorder!), "Oh,I KNOW you all love me!" phase of her career. Her eyes are very slanty in this film and one can see the scars of a recent face lift when she is seen in profile. Her close ups are all sort of hazy; kind of like Lucille Ball in "Mame". Ms. Hepburn always seemed strong and proud and unbeatable when she was younger, or at least until, "Guess Who's Coming To Dinner". Athough always somewhat actressy and prone to posing, she was always smart and likable and sometimes very effective, especially in comedies. I don't know why she chose to go down the saccharine path as she got older.

It's very sad that Mr. Tracy (the most spendid and natural screen actor of his time) had to end his distinguished career in this embarrassing pile of glop. I immediately watched "Woman of the Year" and "Adam's Rib"

after viewing "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" so I would remember how wonderful almost all of the other Tracy/Hepburn movies were.