Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker have starred in yet another hit, Rush Hour 2. This is one action packed movie with two awesome characters. It is often hard to make a sequel as good or better than the first movie, but Rush Hour 2 proved this theory wrong. I would definately recommend this hilarious action packed movie to all moviegoers. Jackie and Chris have this chemistry that is unmatched.
  The two of them are on a vacation turned into a job to find out who is responsible for a bomb that exploded in a U.S. embassy in Hong Kong. While they are spending their time in Hong Kong they come across many agressive locals, and a couple of beutiful locals. The always-serious Jackie Chan was terrific as always in being his own stunt man, and completing his terrific karate moves. It's also a great thing that Jackie knows how to speak Chineese. It was absolutely hilarious when Chris would try to spark a conversation with a local. Chris Tucker's lip syn'c in a local bar was hilarious. It was great to see how two actors of totally different nationality's meshed to make a dynamic duo on the big screen.
  There couldn't be more of a difference in two characters. Jackie is as serious as he could be at all times;on the other hand Chris is possibly the funniest actor in the film industry today, never serious. Always chasing the Chineese girls, ever so easily distracted, yet he still manages to hold onto his father type partner, Jackie. The two of them fight as much as brother's do, but it always seems to be Jackie telling Chris to stay in line. When Jackie Chan scales a wall of bamboo up the side of a building chasing the criminals, I said " this is possibly the most gifted actor in his business.
  Both actors are having a grand time in Hong Kong, when they are interupted and have to catch a counterfeit organization based in Hong Kong. This is a huge organization that has the power to scam the whole country out of money. Jackie and Chris chase the group and hop onto a yacht for a annual party. They think they killed the headman, but it turns out he is still alive and just fell off the boat and had another boat pick him up. The two then get greedy in L.A. and get hauled off to Las Vegas by the group. The group is attempting to take over the casino.
  This is a very funny movie but at the same time they try to make it serious. They add some very suprising special affects at the same time. But if you decide to watch the movie make sure you stay for the ending because they show the mess ups the two did during the film.