Most of us will agree that new love is one of the most endearing and exhiliarating experiences of our lives. But these days, sadly Hollywood rarely produces screen romances and films that demonstrate the power and excitement of growing love. Fortunately, due to the enthusiasm of Keanu, Sandra, and Alejandro Agresti in his first English film we have been gently reminded of love's magic and how a couple can fall in love through a growing correspondence and not through dating servies or emails. Although some of the professional critics have been harsh in their words over the Lake House because it's not totally logical or has gaps in its script, rarely have I met a viewer who wasn't at least a bit touched by the acting and Keanu and Sandra. I saw this movie in the theaters on the day of its premiere and recall a true-to-life comment of an American soldier who wanted the exact locations of Alex's tour of Chicago as he was taking his fiance to Chicago who loved the movie before he went on to Iraq. Several native Chicago residentsquickly answered his questions. For many of us, our favorite scene is the slow dance and resulting kiss  portion of the movie. It was a very long take to do and I wonder how many times Keanu and Sandra shot it to get it perfect which they did. Don't we all remember that tension and suspense of physical contact with a new love? That scene of this 2006 movie is already being compared to one of the all time romantic encounters of film history. We loved the innocent puppy love of these two actors in Speed but how they have grown and matured in their performances! Both shot up to star strastophere and salaries from that experience but I adore their characters in this film. Keanu, in particular, has encountered many tragedies in his own life since Speed and I am convinced it contributed to his depth, naturalness, and reality to his character of Alex Wyler. Some have not been happy with the ending-- even if it leaves us curious about the dog. Maybe she will show up in the DVD! Thank you Keanu and Sandra for the courage to do a "little"film and at this date I know have already proven the professional critics wrong on this movie's box office potential. Your screen chemistry is stronger and more mesmerising than before and thank you for your patience and wisdom for waiting for the "right"  screen vehicle to come along. But please don't wait another 12 years ! No recent screen couple can light and heat up the screen like the two of you and the viewing public wants more of you ASAP!