(...) Graphic imagery and excerpts (...), captivating cinematography, universal plot, and actors that are frightfully and alarmingly convincing, make American History X a difficult movie to see, but an impossible one to quit watching.
  Screenplay writer David McKenna doesn&#8217;t beat around the bush; within the first twenty minutes, the whole plot is laid out. The location: Venice Beach, California, a neighborhood that was once white suburbia, but is now plagued with gangs. The influential character: Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton), a misguided youth seeking revenge for his father&#8217;s death. Derek seeks solace in the D.O.C. (Disciples of Christ), an organization of angry, white extremist skinheads. His anger finally peaks when he brutally kills two black men who were breaking into his car. Derek spends three years in jail, soul-searching, and finds that his rage failed to impact his life. He comes back a changed man, ready to part with his animosity and begin anew. The conflict: Danny Vinyard (Edward Furlong), Derek&#8217;s younger brother, idolizes Derek&#8217;s old days and racist ways, and is already following in his footsteps. Derek, freed of his hatred, sees it as his duty to rescue his sibling, before he has to learn the hard way. The resolution: a bitter-sweet success tinged with irony.
  The story, from the aggressive start to the shocking, emotional ending, is powerful, universal, and timeless. But the movie is propelled to a whole other level with the outstanding performance of Edward Norton. Norton is able to evoke emotion without words, give meaning without saying a thing. For example, let&#8217;s examine the scene of Derek&#8217;s brutal crime. After getting all he can out of his automatic, Derek atrociously finishes off a survivor by kicking his skull into the curb. The following few minutes are pure film, with the exception of police commands in the background. Norton exemplifies the power, the glory Derek gains from his action, despite the actual horror, and the hopelessness of his crime. Derek&#8217;s bulging muscles, imposing swastika tattoo over his heart, demonic glare, and self-satisfied smile, overpower the fact that he is handcuffed and down on his knees. Norton, after embodying all that is evil, then, seemingly effortlessly, does a complete 180°, and becomes the good guy. Norton&#8217;s portrayal is so powerful because he appears to literally become Derek, never once stepping out of character.
  Along with Norton&#8217;s superb performance, the movie has multiple other noteworthy actors. Edward Furlong, although not nearly as strong an actor as Norton, is strong in the end, during Danny&#8217;s transformation. His voice cracks with emotion and his eyes brim with tears, as he effectively portrays Danny&#8217;s newly discovered innocense.
  Of the smaller roles, Guy Torry, who plays Derek&#8217;s black friend in jail, and has much to do with his new mindset, gives a notable performance. Torry provides comedy, making the difficult plot a little easier to swallow.
  But besides the outstanding acting and superb plot, there is also spectacular cinematography, which can be attributed to director and cinematographer Tony Kaye. Kaye uses black and white for flashback scenes and color for present-day scenes. Besides creating very aesthetically pleasing visuals through the constant switching of colors, the black and white and color scenes add a very distinct mood to the movie. The black and white, which depicts a very dark, gray past, stands for hopelessness. The color, thus, is used to create contrast, to stand for hope. The movie begins and ends with the same scene of the beach, the beginning in black and white, and the end in color. The color conveys a sense of optimism, despite the movie&#8217;s ironic twist of an ending.
  The bleak theme, lined with glimmers of hope and optimism, parallels our world. American History X is a timeless movie, one that seemed all too appropriate when it first came out, not long after the death of Mathew Shepard, and one, that sadly, seems all too appropriate now, amidst the hatred and the war. But through all the horrid, gruesome scenery, the underlying message is hopeful: hate is taught, and it can be untaught. I will steal the ending lines of the movie, for as Danny says, someone has already said it best. "We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, we must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory will swell when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature." (Abraham Lincoln).
  Hearing the centuries-old words of Abraham Lincoln through the emotional voice of a changed man, all set to the scene of a colorful sunrise&#8230;there isn&#8217;t much else left to say.