Well, I finally got to see what all the cult fuss was about when I picked up PHANTASM's newest DVD release. This is for the 2007 Anchor Bay release in the white-ish poster art slipcover. I won't dig too deep on plot points (Hell, were there REALLY any solid plot points? *as I begin ducking all the rotten tomatoes being thrown at me from die-hard fans*lol;-) so I'll try & stick to the product junk as seen through the eye(s)  of a PHANTASM newbie.

THE PACKING: I'm a packaging ho', so every little bit extra is always a plus in my book. Makes ya feel like ya got more for your buck. And in this case, being yet another movie I'd bought sight unseen after only hearing about it for years, well, that can only help. HERE, we get what's always welcome to me, slipcase/sleeve/jacket that slides over the actual DVD case. It's basically the same artwork as the DVD case label, so nothing special lies underneath. But the poster art is cool enough. I bought mine at (insert name of competition). And on the outer sleeve, there was a small -clear- sticky label....it looked like the printing company affixed it there to make a place for price stickers and such to be affixed so they didn't stick directly to the box. Weeeelllll.................that was a great idea, but when taking off THAT clear mask, it took off much of the PHANTASM foil logo that was directly underneath. So be warned especially if you are buying in a brick and mortar shop. Try and find one without, if this kind of stuff matters to you. Now the slipcover logo is red foil with 'silver accents' from where the sticky thing came up....and no.....it won't go back down either. Damage done.

FILM ITSELF: I said I wouldn't go over the plot, but a couple comments: As a late comer to the PHANTASM franchise, this was an entertaining way to kill some time. I was in school when this hit the theaters, and my Mom wouldn't let me see it, so I had only my friend's account of how cool it was back then..the sphere of course, was on everyone's cool-list. Well, now.......I kinda wish I saw it then, because I'd probably have a bit of nostalgia to tag onto my perceptions of the film. It was entertaining, but it certainly didn't knock my socks off. I kinda felt like it had such a huge overhead of low-budget-cult-legend-hype to live up to that it simply couldn't do it for me....and especially all these years later when we all know time softens the cult-film blow of many films no matter what budget and how big the audience is for it.

I could appreciate the overall surrealist feel to it. THAT was nice and effective. Unfortunately budget restraints stifled much of the impact and the rest, I had to imagine.....which I suppose, being a fan of old school ....REAL OLD SCHOOL horror from the 20's-60's, that shouldn't have been anything to be bothered by. But in this case....too much legend-ariness (lol! I swear that's a real word....I swears!;-) but it just couldn't meet the task in my book. And the acting? Well.......that was hit & miss.  However, I STILL enjoyed the film and won't be one of those viewers screaming about how I am so pissed about wasting two hours of my life. I'll actually watch it again in the coming months without a second thought, just to revisit the ATMOSPHERE, which seems to be the key to this movie from this outsider. And eeew.....just thinking about that chick 'turning' into the Thin Man........well, he/she WAS the other but the cuts there were effectively creepy.

PRINT QUALITY: I'm assuming the previous release was not anamorphic. This one is. On our widescreen TV here, it looks great. A few bits of junk here or there, but really, anyone complaining about this is really.....well....complaining too much I'd say. The transfer looks great. I had up until some of the effects shots thought they had a decent budget to work with, that's how good the film stock looked to me overall.....though there were some scenes where it was obvious they were re-inserted or something, maybe that's explained on the commentary. Sound-wise....no complaints, at least on our system, and we shake the walls here when the urge hits. We didn't wake the neighbors but the sound was sufficient enough for the Thin Man's sudden entrances to make us jump and make us wanna slap ourselves for being such girly men.. which we ......err..oh never mind..........hehe;-) ASPECT: 1:85:1 TIME: 88mins.

SPECIAL FEATURES: The PHANTASMAGORIA 30 min. piece was interesting and gave good insight as well as new appreciation for me not really knowing a damn thing about this film. I guess this(?) was not on the other release of PHANTASM. In it, the cast talks about the film (really?;-) and it's loaded with behind the scenes stuff. The good thing I liked about this, was no one was screaming in self importance like you see in some documentaries....you know... where everyone has to tell you how miserable they were but still managed to turn out a hit ....blah blah blah

OVERALL: I'm happy with this purchase. Nice low budget fun. Not scary-scary (but what is scary anyway?)....but more dreamy/nightmarish stuff that you fill in the blanks with. I really wanted to give this 3.75 stars but alas, I can't. It has a good mood to it, something that is lacking in many low budget flicks so a 4 isn't too much of a stretch. PACKAGING/PRODUCT-wise....they did a good job. It's interesting enough to look at....Hell, when even the inside opens up to more design (clear case/double sided printed label/screened disc), THAT is a good thing to see they didn't get lazy &  thought about all that too.