I'm the lone naysayer for this documentary (it appears so far). Let me first start off by stating that I've been a Doors fan for more than 30 years and I've seen more than 85% of the footage shown in this documentary. But having said that, the biggest disappointment with this so-called documentary is just how little new footage it actually contains given that the band supposedly "opened the vaults" to Dicillo. For anyone who has been a Doors fan and has seen much of the already commercially available Doors footage (released over the past 25 years) there is very little new in this film that would excite the viewer. If anything, the only thing worth getting excited about is the fact that Dicillo was able to get pristine quality footage and that alone may be the sole reason worth seeing this film.

Otherwise, you are left with a terrible narrative construction filled with cliches about the band, Jim Morrison and of course, the sixties. Johnny Depp does his ably best to surround this film with a certain "je ne sais quois" mystique but it doesn't hold water at all. For one thing, Dicillo wrote this narrative and he sheds absolutely NO LIGHT WHATSOEVER on the Doors or Jim Morrison. Matter of fact, there is NOTHING new in this film that hasn't already been mentioned in previous interviews and previously made available commercial footage. The only thing that some people might have never seen before is the footage taken from Jim's movie, HWY. But all you get are snippets which don't amount to very much. One has to seriously question Dicillo's direction when he put this film together because there is so little if anything that's new in it one wonders exactly what exactly was his goal and what was he expecting to accomplish?  There are ZERO interviews with intimates of Jim Morrison such as Babe and Tony Funches, for example. These are people who are still alive and knew Jim fairly intimately. There are many other individuals who could have been interviewed. And what about Jim's poetry?  We get so little in this documentary given that Jim recorded HOURS of  his poetry in a professional studio. In the end, what makes the Doors and Jim Morrison worth considering all these years later?  This film doesn't answer the question at all and instead gives us what we've been given already before which is previously released footage of both the band and Jim Morrison while shedding no new light or insight about the band, the music, or Jim Morrison.  This was a serious misfire on the part of Dicillo and this film does not at all deserve the kudos these Amazon reviewers have been giving it. If you are a Doors neophyte and no next to NOTHING about the Doors or Jim Morrison then you might glean something of value from this film. But if you're a long time fan and collector of both Jim's poetry, the doors music and you already have seen most of what has already been commercially made available over the past 25 years, then you will find preciously little in this film of significance.  The Doors obviously have very little in their vaults and all you get are 5 to 10 second snippets of the Doors performing in concert at various venues with no soundboard recordings from any of the concerts shown. It's a huge let down for long-time Doors fans who were expecting much more in terms of previously unseen footage both of the band and Jim Morrison.

I paid $12 to see this film at the Kabuki theater in San Francisco and the theater was 4/5th's empty. Everyone seemed bored who watched this film and after making it through 30 minutes of this film I found myself barely able to make it through the rest. It was unoriginal, with a badly written narrative. I don't recommend this film at all unless you've never seen any film footage of the Doors before. I'm very harsh in my review of this film because I was expecting something much different than what was delivered. I want my money back!