Despite the certain technical flaws associated with the Kultur release of the Benoit Jacquot film version of Puccini's Tosca and some of the filmmaker's questionable editing and directorial choices (duly noted elsewhere among these reviews ), I'd like to comment on the positive and enjoyable aspects of the film which, despite its few shortcomings, make it a favorite of mine.

First of all, Angela Gheorghiu is spectacularly stunning in her performance of the Floria Tosca role.  Her singing is excellent and her acting is emotionally compelling.  In addition to that, she looks as beautiful as ever.

Ruggero Raimondi is in top form as the villain Scarpia ... his chilling portrail is one to be admired, and his vocal ability lacks nothing.  His scenes with Ms. Gheorghiu are intense and mesmerizing.

Lastly, the staged setting for much of the film I find fascinating - the use of a pitch black backdrop surrounding the set highlights the wonderful colors and beautiful decor of the church and Scarpia's office.

The picture quality (and I do enjoy a fine picture) to me is acceptable.  Because the picture of the Kultur release is in a 4:3 frame ratio, it does not fill the screen on my 46" flat screen when the tv picture is set on "full" mode.  However, when I change the screen to "zoom", the picture fills the tv screen, and thank goodness, the subtitles remain on the screen as well.  Certainly some of the picture is lost in "zoom" mode , but considering the quality of the performances and the beautiful images, it is a compromise I am satisfied to live with.  The sound quality of the Kultur release is OK.

I considered buying a multi-region DVD player and a European release version if the Kultur release was as "horrible" as some of the reviews indicated, but thankfully this release proved satisfactory enough to avoid the cost and inconvenience of all that.

So until, hopefully one day, the higher quality versions of the European releases are made available to play on North American DVD players, I am happy to own and enjoy this release.