At least, one thing you can say in favor of Inglourious Basterds is that it forces you to think, if you don't want to limit yourself to a merely instinctive judgment. The instinctive judgment would be that this movie is, overall, so profoundly silly and immature as to defy understanding and leave you with your head shaking in disbelief, something like a comic book from the sixties or seventies, aiming at a 10 to 14 mental-age comic book audience (and reading the reviews, there's a crowd of that out there), over-inflated to the size of a multi-million, over two-hour motion picture.

Silly and immature? Let's start with the big things. It all goes awry at the beginning of "Chapter 2", when Hitler appears portrayed as an eructating caricature - it reminded me of Terry Gilliam's Napoleon in "Time Bandits". And from that point you know that this is not going to be serious; even Chaplin's Dictator seemed like a stern documentary in comparison. Other glaring absurdities? A "Wild Bunch" of Jewish avengers wreaking terror behind enemy lines, and getting away with not even the trace of a scratch (at least before they team with a blundering Brit secret services agent). Tarantino's "Dirty Dozen" are even less than cardboard figures, you can hardly remember their names - and I'm not asking for psychological development, let's not place too high demands on Tarantino, just a little bit of description past a few grunts; even Schwarzenegger's bunch in Predator had more reality. A Jewish girl whom the Nazi Jew hunter lets escape from her family's massacre, then finding herself three or four years later (with fake identity papers, naturally, those came automatically with ration tickets in occupied France) the owner of a movie theatre in the center of Paris - with a black assistant and lover to boot. Hitler coming down to Paris - this is June 1944, after D-Day - just to watch a Goebbels propaganda movie (and was Goebbels ever a film director anyway? Not that I know of: as propaganda minister, he was a producer of films, but Tarantino lets the ambiguity hover). A German actress, double agent working for the allies, who knows about Hitler's coming to Paris, supposedly a top-secret information that only two other Nazi dignitaries including Goebbels seem to share. A Gestapo officer appropriately (and by sheer coincidence no doubt) present in a remote village tavern some miles away from Paris where no-one except British and American spies are supposed to be, clever enough to realize that the three German officers surrounding him are British and American spies in disguise (that's the afore-mentioned blundering Brit's blunder), but stupid enough to pull out his pistol and point it at the blundering Brit (what did he think the two others were going to do? just stare and keep sifting their whiskey?) instead of quietly leaving the premises as if he'd been aware of nothing, and then calling a squad to come an arrest or shoot down the lot. He should have asked me about spying techniques, I've watched enough movies to know these things. The German actress/double agent getting a bullet in her leg that you wonder how it didn't sever her tibial artery, and the next day she's up and kicking in a cast - no infection, no apparent fever, ah the miracles of make-up - after supposedly being repaired by what appears as a village bonesetter - and this is 1944 occupied France, remember, not "Emergency Room": reminds me of Schwarzenegger's "Last Action Hero" and his famous "just a flesh wound" - the ultimate film on action films, as referential on the history of cinema as any Tarantino movie and the reason why I'll always be friends with the former Governor of California, notwithstanding everything else. Three of the Jewish-American avengers think they have a chance of getting into the movie theatre where the premiere is taking place, passing off for Italians (a language none of them speaks), because "the Germans don't have a good ear for Italian accents". A guy gets three pistol bullets in the back at close range but still manages to survive a few more minutes to shoot back by surprise and kill his killer. A German sniper shooting down some 300 American soldiers from his Italian bell tower - why the Americans didn't send a tank destroy the tower, as the Germans did in "Saving Private Ryan",  is probably best explained by the fact that Tarantino's scene is presumably meant as a spoof of Spielberg's. Sure, at least an attempt at an explanation is provided in the "Goebbels film in the film" (supposedly depiciting the true story of the German war hero), "Nation's Pride", which is offered complete as a bonus feature: a humanistic US colonel refuses to be the one responsible for turning "1000-years history into dust", preferring to see 300 of his men shot; but, other than the fact that this can hardly be considered any more "rational" or credible than the rest (it might have been best not even trying to explain it), it seems also rather entirely inconsistent with the premise that this is supposed to be a Goebbels, anti-American propaganda film, so why would depict such a humanistic US colonel in such a positive light? Or maybe this is Tarantino's view of Goebbels' view of American Jewish-determined degeneracy: a degenerate soldier being (in the view of Goebbels as viewed by Tarantino) one who refuses to put to dust 1000-years history to save 300 men? Still, wouldn't it have been much more clever of Tarantino, and much more in-sync with what his film is about, to have made one of these oblique references he loves to make, here to  "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence" and its famous concluding motto: "When the legend becomes fact, print the legend". Meaning, the sniper never actually shot 300 GIs, they did blow down the tower and he managed to save his skin, running away. The rest is only Goebbels' propaganda film. Well, Tarantino didn't ask for my advice on his best script ever (see hereafter).

Oh, and, of course, the ending: Hitler, Goebbels, Goering and all the dignitaries of the Nazi regime being shot down and burnt down to flames in the Paris movie theatre. As we know, it didn't quite end that way.

And these are only the bigger absurdities. Let's move on to the small things, and back at the movie's beginning: a Jewish family being dairy farmers in the middle of nowhere in 1941 nazi-occupied France? The chief Nazi Jew-hunter coming all the way down to an isolated dairy farm in the middle of nowhere in 1941 Nazi-occupied France to hunt down a single Jewish family - and not the Rothschilds, mind you, just a nobody Jewish family of dairy farmers?? And - this one in fact even more outlandish than Hitler's portrayal, but with Tarantino there's not much difference between the big things and the small things - a (non-Jewish) dairy farmer in the middle of nowhere in 1941 nazi-occupied France speaking English????

Finally, the biggest absurdity of all, the one that strains to the extreme one's ability to voluntarily suspend one's disbelief: Brad Pitt with a Tennessee drawl. But at least this one is downright funny.

So: none of this can be taken seriously - at least if your mental development hasn't stopped at the age of 15, which I am not entirely sure is the case with Tarantino or his audience. And to think that he claimed it to be his best script to date - makes you shiver at the thought of what the worst ones might be. It is little more than "Sergeant Rock" made into a 70-million dollar motion picture.

Not that all of it is at that level of puerility, fortunately. There are a few nice scenes - starting with the opening cat and mouse confrontation between the SS Jew Hunter Hans Landa (Oscar winner Christoph Waltz) and the French dairy farmer Perrier Lapadite (Denis Menochet) - something like "Lapadite's Choice". Both actors are here exceptional, Landa in his cruel playfulness and Lapadite in his taciturn rock-like massiveness, until his break-down in tears. In fact, every appearance of Christoph Waltz is a good scene. Another one is when the rendez-vous between the spies at the remote village tavern goes awry because a gathering of German soldiers has unexpectedly chosen the same place to celebrate, and because, through the secret workings of Tarantino as the film's script-writer, the Gestapo officer has felt, that same evening, the compulsion to go precisely at that same tavern. Clearly Tarantino loves wracking the nerves of his audience with these contests of wits - will the good guys find a way to smoothly get rid of the bad guys or will it all skid into violence? In fact, one of the interesting underlying threads of Tarantino's movie - and it is I think a pattern in all his movies - is how things do NOT go according to plan. That pattern is also the main propellant of the final scene, the big movie showdown, which has a few nice turns to it - especially when the giant, ghost-like image of the Jewish girl's face hurling her imprecations at the Nazi dignitiaries appears against the smokes of the burning theatre.

But the script has more problems too than only the implausibilities, the improbabilities and the impossibilities. Take that first scene, for instance, the "Lapadite's Choice", at the end of which Hans Landa the Jew Hunter lets the Jewish girl, Shoshana, escape from the massacre of her family. In fact, when you reflect upon it, you realize that that scene bears very little relation to the rest of the film, it is just the idea that Tarantino had for a great scene that he didn't quite find a way to link to the rest of the movie, and the rest of the movie could have very well existed without that scene. When, some years later, Landa meets the same girl again, Tarantino makes very little of the encounter, and then leaves it at that.

Furthermore, Tarantino's apparent inability, or unwillingness, to choose a style/mood raises questions. The film starts like a psychological drama that Spielberg or Pakula could have filmed, then continues like a comic-book cardboard caricature or a film in the style of Jerry Lewis' "Which Way to the Front" (but with Tarantino's typical gory violence), and from there constantly veers back and forth, so that it leaves the audience never quite knowing on which foot to stand. And while I recognize that this apparent incapacity of choosing if this is going to be a serious, dramatic film or a mere spoof is probably a trademark of Tarantino's style, it is also, I feel, one of the film's problems. Maybe this way of playing cat and mouse with the public's expectations is a fine directorial trick in pure, "Pulp" fictions; but in a fiction like "Inglourious Basterds", taking place in a historical context, and one whose memory isn't erased (see the previous review), you can't so easily evacuate the historical facts as mere fiction. Hitler isn't Richard III, and Tarantino's "serious" scenes do not make his grotesque ones any less absurd and silly - on the contrary: they look even more jarringly silly. The two simply don't stick together.

But then, Tarantino's cinematographic culture is unquestionable - even if it seems rather undiscriminating, putting on an equal footing masterpiece and turkey. So one needs to go beyond the instinctive reactions, and give it a little more thought. What was Tarantino aiming at when turning a 70-cents comic book into a 70-million dollars film? Was he just doing that - a kid's mind in a star movie director's body able to toy with 70 million dollars and getting his shot at turning "Sergeant Rock" into a movie, period? If so, it is almost terrifying to think that Tarantino - and most of the critics, and most of the audience - have apparently seemed unable to give one thought to the fact that a motion picture is perhaps not just an animated cartoon, that there is a huge difference not just of medium but fundamentally of message between the 2-D, gaudy drawings and the 3-D, gaudy but hugely realistic motion picture. Godard once said something to the effect that a traveling is not so much a matter of technique as of ethics, and maybe Tarantino didn't quite get that part. To be quite honest, I didn't either before seeing Tarantino's film. Many have raved about Tarantino's "brilliant" camera work, and sure, it is often brilliant, imaginative, virtuosic. But if it is just a display of camera virtuosity - hey, see how I can impress you! - at the service of a void of purpose and thinking, then it is no less hollow and puerile than all the rest.

But maybe there is more to the film than only that, and I get my clue from the ending. Beyond and despite the portrayal caricatures and the huge credibility gaps, there can always be some pretense at realism as long as you don't depart from the more important historical facts: after all, Hitler didn't but COULD have come to Paris to see the premiere of a Goebbels movie, and after all there could have been a failed attempt to assassinate him, similar to Von Stauffenberg's in 1944. But when Tarantino stages the actual success of the Hitler-Goeebels-Goering assassination, and at the hands of three Jews and one Blackman, then you know you are totally out of reality. You are in a kid's fantasy-world where the lambs slaughter the wolves, where the oppressed eliminate the oppressors. And this is the kind of world that (only?) comics, or the movies, can create. So it is significant that the final showdown should take place precisely in a movie theatre. What is Tarantino telling us through the fact that the theatre is burnt down in flames with the throng of bad guys, burnt down from the inside and by its own propellant - the highly inflammable stock of nitrate films that was kept in the theatre? The editorial comment reminds us that Tarantino said at the Cannes Film Festival that he wanted to show Hitler defeated by cinema. But what he actually shows us is cinema destroyed along with Hitler.

In the contest of actors, Germany wins, hands down. Sure, as I mentioned, Martin Wuttke as Hitler is a caricature, but Brad Pitt's Aldo Raine is no less - oh the war seems so cool 'n easy with a guy like that - so that's a tie. The other American actors aren't given much scope by Tarantino to develop much of anything. On the other hand, while Christoph Waltz' performance has been showered with praise, and legitimately so, the equally brilliant performance of Sylvester Groth as Goebbels hasn't been commented upon enough. Diane Kruger as the German Actress/double agent is also quite good - and I can vouch that her French is so good (which even some traces of French accent when she speaks German, it seemed to me) that I first wondered why Tarantino had chosen a French actress to portray a German character.