This is NOT a documentary about the shows at Woodstock and there is absolutely no footage of the show. In fact, the show may be the back story for the movie, however, the movie is about what went on AROUND the show, before, during, and after, for a particular family and the quirky characters who lived in the town that somewhat unwillingly hosted the festival.

It's a very fun movie and the various characters are quite amusing. Essentially this is the story about a young Jewish man who has all types of grand schemes to help his parent's failing motel. He usually puts on music festivals featuring local, teenage "talent" and has grandiose ideas about turning his parent's dumpy motel into an international resort. His parent's hotel is one summer away from being foreclosed upon and he overhears that a large music festival with big name musicians such as Joan Baez, The Grateful Dead, etc. has just lost it's permit in a neighboring town. He calls the producers and arranges for them to visit the town as a possible alternate venue for the festival. The majority of the story is about the main character, his parents, and the various characters who come to stay at the motel to prepare for the festival.

My description doesn't do justice for the film - just know that the movie is quite amusing with quirky, interesting characters and the humorous interactions between them. In the end the festival ends up having a very positive effect on the main character, his depressed "dead inside" father, and his very crotchety and hardened mother.

Both my husband and I thought this was a very fun, entertaining docudrama movie. Even if you have no interest in Woodstock what-so-ever you will very likely enjoy this movie. My husband is somewhat of a conservative, corporate America type and he really liked the film.

Note: there are a few brief scenes with frontal nudity, both male and female. It is done in a way that supports the ideals and feeling of freedom from the 1960's and is NOT presented in a sexualized manner.

Summary: Fun movie with quirky characters. Very enjoyable - even for those with no interest in Woodstock, the 1960's or Hippies.