There's been a rumor circulating for several years that "Westworld" is being remade.  There's even a page about it on IMDB saying it will be out in 2012.  But  so far, all that is still is a rumour.  I just rewatched this after originally seeing in the late 70's - and have to say the concept is timeless and Yul Bryner was as scary good in his role as I remembered from before.

But, after that many years there was a lot of it I didn't remember.  For example, I didn't remember just how cheezy much of the acting and script were. I also didn't notice before how little true dialogue there was in the movie.  There's a lot of chasing around and action - less actual talk. This might be a good thing - since outside of Yul (who also doesn't speak much), the others including Brolin aren't exactly the world's best actors. Anyway, that can't destroy how well Michael Chrichton (later to become creator of Jurassic Park) could turn out a sci-fi idea that captures the imagination and takes you on a wild ride with it.  Despite any acting/scripting flaws, this is a movie that does take you on that ride.

Personally, I'd really like to see them remake it with a more polished look and nuanced script. But, now that Michael Chricton isn't around to fix it up himself - that may be too big of a challenge for Hollywood.  So, I still think it's worth seeing.  I also watched <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004LB5FDG">Futureworld</a>, the sequel, which I enjoyed even more than this one (though it too has a major cheese-factor - there's a bit more depth).  Still, I think they're both worth a watch for any sci-fi classics fan.

Bottom Line: Cheesiness aside, for the sheer great concept of it delivered by the sci-fi master Chricton, this is a must-see classic. If you're really not sure if it's for you - you might want to check it out on youtube first before purchasing. The whole thing is available in 10 mins. increments, and you get a sense of whether you'd enjoy it by watching the beginning.