This collaboration between Clint Eastwood and Steven Spielberg is historically accurate and is dramatically pungent leaving the audience with only a glimpse of what it was like defending their country from the enemy in the 1940s.

Mr. Eastwood and Mr. Spielberg were successfully able to bring the borders of Dramatic Screen Play and Accurate Historical Documentation together in this biographical story of John Bradley, Pharm2c, U.S. Navy, as told by his son, James Bradley.

People who have never been in combat will miss much of the story the first viewing as well as the majority of subtle military nuances which combines as a vast list of variables producing the Complex Post-Traumatic Stress Disorders demonstrated and seen in the personalities of the four Marines and one US Navy Hospital Corpsman who were the second team to raise the American flag on Mount Suribachi, Iwo Jima.

For combat veterans from America's beginning to the present, nothing has been available for the regular public to view which enables public understanding of Complex Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (CPTSD). This film may be the start.

Currently, over 95% of combat veterans returning from the war in Iraq and Afghanistan have CPTSD, but our country and the Department of Veterans Affairs continue to practice denial of how serious, debilitating and lethal CPTSD is to the returning service members, their families, and friends.

This movie, whether there was a deliberate intent to introduce the public to the lethality of CPTSD or not, does this task with flying colors.

My heartfelt congratulations and thanks go to you Mr. Eastwood and Mr. Spielberg for producing a vehicle for understanding for those who can and want to know and appreciate the plight of the American Warrior.

The only problem now is getting the money-grabbing and uncaring politicians to watch the movie, comprehend, and realize that they have an obligation as elected officials to thousand of walking wounded coming back to the U.S. from war-torn Iraq and Afghanistan, inflicted with a deadly disorder and injury called Complex Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.

If we as a country expect to survive past this generation, we need to EFFECTIVELY treat CPTSD in all aspects of the lives of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guard's men, with compassion remembering they placed their lives in harm's way for the people of their country, or there will not be an American nation for very long...

"...the pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom." --Abe Lincoln

The price is worth it. Get the movie! Watch it! Watch it more than once! Understand it! Share it with your family and friends! Do it for our troops!