I saw this film with high hopes. I am very much into giving credit where it is due, but it's a bit difficult when you spend half of the film wanting to strangle the bejesus out of the filmmakers.
I am a huge fan of Leroux for his tale which shines off a classic story of love and mystery.The careful treatment that Hal Prince and A.L.W. gave to the story created an incredible and haunting show, and the ONLY phantom is Michael Crawford. He loved this character, and made a whole new outlook on Erik, as a tragic and enigmatic figure. All of these things come together to create a story which I adore and has evidently gained admiration from oh so many others.
Maybe this director was bored or something. Tossed ideas around..wanted to make an artistic statement..
First of all, this Phantom isn't horrifcally deformed but passable in appearance. You know that mask on the cover? Don't let that make you think that it's even THAT true to the story.The famous unmasking scene is left out, instead showing the guy abusively tossing her about. A Michael Crawford, he certainly is not. All this Phantom is is a flat character;a psycho with a passion for rats *another moronic change in the story* and a killer with bizarre methods. I (and hopefully you) could do without the gruesome rat trap effect..with a bunch of moving dying creatures in it..And the view of Christine as a Pin-up. Thanks for showing off the animalistic side of the phantom, but we have the rest of the movie to be sicked out of.
The number one thing that bothered me..The Phantom and Christine's relationship.Erik is supposed to be honorable to her in the sense that he never touches her, like the mere idea of love is forbidden to him. This Phantom takes advantage happily..and Christine really does not give off the array of innocense that makes her character so powerful and keeps the story afloat.
Not to spoil it for you, but the end is worthy of an oscar for most overdone and SAD excuse for a SOAP OPERA I have ever seen. Although..the music and the last shot of the film was somewhat ethereal.
Some of the cinematography is beautiful, I must admit, and the costumes are tops.
But hey..if you don't like the original story, or the show, this might float your boat when in the mood for upclose blood guts and gore and horrendous acting.
Oh..wait.....