This is any entertainer's ultimate fantasy. The power to kill critics who you feel ruin your reputation and deny you legitimacy. Edward Lionhart {played by Price} was a ham actor on the theatre circuit who loved the works of Shakespeare so much that he devoted his career to various salutes and tributes to the playwright. London's top critics felt Lionhart wasn't being too original and they became annoyed at his Shakespeare tributes and so they always gave him terrible reviews simply because they wanted him to take the hint and do something other than Shakespeare. Well, Lionhart felt he deserved the Critics Circle Award but the critics gave it to a newcomer over legendary Lionhart. This prompted him to jump from a multi-story complex and be presumed dead. He comes back to life and aided by his demented daughter, the two kill the eight of the nine critics who were the most insensitive with their reviews. Each critic is killed using the murders from the Shakespeare plays they respectively panned by Lionhart. for example, in one play a hapless victim eats his own flesh and blood (Robert Morley appears as a homosexual critic who is force fed poodle soup...his character didn't have any children and so his two poodles were the closest thing he had to "family"). Another death came when Price plays 'Butch', a gay hairdresser who electrocutes furture wife, Coral Browne. This film is hilarious and it has two messages. The first: critics DO have power over public opinion and it's often their take on a movie, play, or record album that often persuades the public into investing their time or money into something. Second: no matter how personal and how awful a review might be, the offended party shouldn't kill his/her attackers. Ignoring bad reviews and denouncing the critics as dummies is the proper way to handle pious critics. Seek out this film and enjoy Lionhart's happiness in getting his revenge. The critics are so cynical and full of themselves that you have no sympathy for them {however, you will have pity for the one likable critic who is tasting wine and is drowned by Lionhart and dunked into a wine barrel}