This show should be required viewing for all Americans, whether Democrat or Republican, elephant or ass, this is the story and script of the American political experience. Not since Mash has there been a better vehicle for the small screen to make such a poignant use of the video airwaves, raising the bar for both sides, giving us a long look at what our government is supposed to be, and how it is supposed to be run. Caring, honest, intelligent people governing for the basic good of the whole population.
  As a writer want-to-be, I am amazed at the accuracy and overall knowledge that went in to the script-writing. Bringing real life storylines right from the front page headlines to our television sets, as if we were a "fly-on-the-wall" in the Oval Office. Not covering up and hiding, but facing "head-on" the scandals that have corrupted and brought down countless Presidencies and high level politicos. In a time when our country is in peril of darkness and our government can't come together to agree on turning on the lights, we have been given an owners manual, "American Government For Dummies" a/k/a "The West Wing" seasons I to VII. These actors, playing their roles with a sincerity and believability that would make you write in their names on a ballot and vote for them in real life, deliver the government back to the American People, where it belongs. If our real Politicians were as caring and as honest as these characters have been written to be, there would be no close elections. To borrow a line from an earlier West Wing episode,"The people are fed up with having to vote for the candidate that they dislike the least".
  Once upon a time, being a politician was a "Call to Duty", much the same as joining the military or becoming a teacher. You wern't in it for the money or the fame. You put in long hours and scrificed time with friends and family for very low pay, you were doing your duty to God and Country for your fellow Countrymen. The West Wing Series reiterates that "Call To Duty", as the actors demonstrate the long hours and lack of personal time, in the day to day running of our country.
  I urge you to buy and watch the entire 7 seasons in order, the knowledge and entertainment are without compare.