***Contains Spoilers***

I just went to see the new Indiana Jones film yesterday evening, and I've got to say that I found the movie disappointing. I have been a big fan of the Indiana Jones series (including the Young Indiana Jones movies), and was wowed by Raiders of the Lost Ark when it came out three decades ago (four stars). I was much less impressed by its unworthy sequel, Temple of Doom (two stars), and relieved by the excellent recovery of the series in Last Crusade (three and a half stars). My rating of two and a half stars for the current, and hopefully last, iteration of the Indiana Jones saga is based on comparisons with its three illustrious predecessors. My bottom line: Lucas and Spielberg should have quite while they were ahead.

One of the great selling points for "Raiders" and "Crusade" was that while there was plenty in each of these movies that was inexplicable, such as the powers of the Ark or the Grail, if you accepted the premise that the Ark or the Grail did exist and had magical powers, the rest of the story held together quite well. You could suspend disbelief a little bit and actually convince yourself that Harrison Ford/Indiana Jones really could get out of all those tight situations with nothing more than slightly mussed hair and a thoroughly dented fedora.

Try that approach with "Crystal Skull" and you get nowhere. The Roswell/ El Dorado mythology is obscure and unbelievable, with enough plot holes to drive a pyramid-sized flying saucer through. Most comic books have a better thought-out plot. Worse still, the situations Indiana Jones gets into are clearly not survivable, unless he has morphed into a combination of Superman and the Hulk, and this detracts significantly from the entertainment value of the film. For example, surviving a nuclear blast by jumping into a nearby lead-lined refrigerator is a non-starter in every sense, as is the survival of all of our heroes through serial descents over three waterfalls. In addition, the marksmanship of AK-47 bearing Soviet troopers has to be truly execrable not to hit Indiana Jones or his compadres even once. This is not the 1930's, when one could reasonably evade a pistol shot here and there. An AK will cut through the jungle, and metal, like it wasn't there and kill everything in range. Indiana should have been killed a hundred times over by this alone,and, in any case, his old man running style didn't help me believe that he could somehow dodge all those bullets.

I also have a few quibbles with the general storyline and casting choices. Nazis in the Middle East in the 1930s is one thing, but an entire Soviet army unit trundling around the Nevada desert and taking over the equivalent of Area 51 is not. It makes you think that those 1950s FBI guys who saw a commie under every bed might have been on to something. In addition, although Cate Blanchett is definitely nice to look at, she is miscast as the KGB villain of the piece. Her attempts at Russian were admirable, but still had my native-Russian speaking girlfriend in stitches. Somebody should have checked a Russian grammar text once in awhile.

I also felt that the transition between the Area 51 warehouse and the nuclear test site was a bit inexplicable. What were those rogue Soviet soldiers doing driving around the test site, and what happened to the rest of them, including Cate Blanchett? The car chase scene through the University was sort of fun, but let's face it: there really would be no such thing as a race between a Harley and a Buick with portholes: it would be over in the first three seconds, with the Harley disappearing rapidly over the horizon. I also found myself scratching my head a little bit over the role played by Ray Winstone as the double/triple agent. His character was totally predictable and entirely superfluous. Shia LaBoeuf's performance as Indiana's long-lost son had some entertainment value, but, once again, I found that he seemed to be something of a fifth wheel at times, whether it was swinging through the jungle with a troupe of CGI monkeys, or engaging in thoroughly ridiculous swordplay with Cate Blanchett. It was great to see Karen Allen reprise her role as Marion Ravenwood, and the sparks that flew between her and Indiana were real and believable, although she did overact at times. I always like to see John Hurt, but his great talents as an actor were wasted in a role where he spent most of his time either spaced out or semi-comatose.

One of my favorite scenes was at the beginning of the film, when Indy was in his office looking fondly at the pictures of his recently departed father (Sean Connery) and his professorial colleague (Denholm Elliott). Unfortunately, it reminded me of how good "Last Crusade" was in comparison to the current film. Connery must be thanking his lucky stars that he was written out of this "Alien City of Gold" fiasco. Lucas and Spielberg will probably make a ton of money on this movie, but it will do nothing for their reputations. They should have quit while they were ahead.