I really wasn't that bothered about watching this film as I've always found Leigh's movies to be a bit of a mixed bag, and at many times a little depressing; and this sounded depressing! However, after a recommendation from a friend, I decided to watch it and I found this it not the least bit depressing, and better than his excellent Secrets and Lies. This is not your Hollywood over-dramatized, must be a message, keep audience on the edge of their seats movie (and I love them as well). This is a small microcosm, perfectly considered, beautifully constructed story, showing the cause and effects of a particular women's well intention but illegal actions and without making any wild statements or judgments about the morality of said actions (Moore should remember this when he makes a 'documentary').

In terms of characterization, I often disagree with the working class biased that Leigh portrays in some of his movies, but here, London in the 50's, it is nigh perfect, having been brought up in North London in the early 60's myself, for me his visualization was extremely accurate: I could directly relate to actions and reactions of many of the characters.

Some people have stated that they were unsatisfied by the end and I must say that after the movie had finished I too felt a bit unsatisfied, if not downright annoyed, until I thought it through and realized that the film's ending was exactly as it should have been, no Hollywood hyperbole, this is probably what would have happened in those times. Leigh just lays it out there for you, a rare treat.

Finally Imelda Staunton is superb in this role, giving one of the finest pieces of dramatic acting I have seen. I loved Million Dollar Baby, but Staunton's acting here is in a different league than Swank's excellent role. Staunton's been around for a while in Comedy and drama, but this is by far the best role I've seen her in (and would be for any actor, who could pull this off).

Controversial subject made into an excellent movie with great acting what more could you ask for? Looking forward to seeing it again. I may even be looking forward to Leigh's next movie!