Having seen so seemingly few of Kevin Costner's films, and not thinking much of the ones I had, I wasn't expecting much before sitting down to watch Dances with Wolves. But I can say now without doubt that it's the best film of his I have ever seen and only left me wondering if he can make a film like this, why his most recent ones have been so awful. Maybe he has bad judgement.
Set in 1865, Costner plays John Dunbar an infantry solider in the US army who requests to be sent to the frontier after an act of suicide is mistaken for an act of heroism. Stationed all alone in a deserted outpost with nothing more than a horse, wolf and journal for company he soon finds that there are Indians aware of his presence. These Indians try and steal his horse on many occasions until he is left tied of waiting for the confrontation that is bound to come and makes his way to the Indians camp to introduce himself, from which point forth he makes leaps and bounds.
This is at heart, a deeply moving tale and one that holds much prevalence when you think of how the Indian's have had their name dragged through the mud with the westerns of years gone by, portraying them more like wild packs of dogs than human beings. This film helps to re-address the balance, with scenes of the Indian's gathering round having a meeting to decide what to do about the white man's presence helping to show that they can think as well as act menacing. Of course a big factor that holds the story together is that Dunbar is open minded and essentially a forward thinker, because with a shoot first and ask questions later attitude I doubt he would have lasted 5 minutes. Their were flaws in the film that I noticed, mostly that his change of allegiance and belonging from the army to the Indian's I found rather too quick and unconvincing much like his relationship with Stands With a Fist (a woman). I also thought the ending was a little too ambiguous as well but I won't dwell on that so as not to spoil it for those that haven't seen it.
Although I'm usually disingenuous when it comes to Oscar winners, I believe this film was a fully deserved winner. And that as frustrating as it is seeing Costner living in a self imposed exile of playing the role of the loner, this is worth seeing because not only is it a battle of mind over body but also a fight of the few against the might of the many. A sacrifice that too few of us are willing to make these days.