Funny thing about Johnny Guitar, I've heard this said in some reviews that the actual character of Johnny Guitar is a small part of this movie. I've seen this movie many times and the character of Johnny Guitar is pretty much there from the opening scene to the closing. I think the character of Emma Small (Mercedes McCambridge) is the most intriguing. She is so incredibly jealous that she would rather see The Dancin' Kid, (Scott Brady) the man she loves and the woman he loves Vienna (Joan Crawford) dead before she can face another day of it. Look at Emma's face after she runs out of Vienna's Saloon after shooting down the chandelier and the saloon is on fire, she looks like a mad dog. We're told that Emma has five years of hatred in her and it is anything but hidden. Vienna has had a relationship with The Dancin' Kid but she made it clear that there is another man. Vienna is in love with Johnny Guitar (Sterling Hayden) whom she has not seen in five years but misses and loves him even though she has gotten very bitter about men, but with good reason. Vienna sends for Johnny Guitar because she misses him and she sees the hatred that has reached it's pinnacle with Emma and fears for her safety. In addition to Vienna being in love with Johnny, he will serve as a bodyguard because he is a professional gunmen known as Johnny Logan. Emma has a death wish for Vienna out of pure jealousy and has gotten the townsmen to believe that The Dancin' Kid and Vienna are criminals for crimes they didn't commit and seeks the only solution she has, hang em'. Vienna has big plans on the railroad coming though this town from a reliable source and plans on getting in early and capitalizing in the business market and has already established the saloon called Vienna's. It would appear she is very intelligent in this area and is in fact a very head strong woman who is a hardworking and honest person. I think this is one of the best movies ever made, it's basically a story of total gender reversal. I recently got a copy of this movie because I hadn't seen it in about 30 years, it was even better then I remembered. I gave this movie a 10 as it is a one of a kind and was overlooked by Americans in 1954 because they just didn't know what to make of it, had Americans seen this in a present day setting (Mid 1950's) and not a western setting they would have seen this movie simply for what it is and it would have been haled a CLASSIC from the get go. Some movies are just ahead of their time and this one falls into that category. It's amazing that in the year 2000 we can see this western style movie for what it is easier then they could have 45 years ago. It shows that Americans have become more open to new ideas and are willing to accept things at face value and not try to rationalize them. Two enthusiastic thumbs up.