After watching the dvd and reading other peoples reviews here online, I agree. The marketing Dreamworks has done is absolutely HORRIBLE to do to their paying customers. They should just be thankful we already bought one item of theirs and just let us watch that. Instead, they make us sit through LONG previews that after the first time, we're never going to want to watch again. Shame on you dreamworks.

In addition, to that, it is somewhat upsetting that instead of a normal Tuesday release, their marketing at Dreamworks desided to push it off for Friday... a day when Pixar released their next masterpiece to theaters. Is that a marketing scam? I would say so. Dreamworks undoubtably was trying to take customers away from the first day release of "The Incredibles" to stay home and watch their previews instead. Dreamworks is obviously all about $$$.

Another, kind of marketing related, issue I have is that my dvd did not come with a chapter selection pamphlet on the inside. Hello Dreamworks! The first Shrek had TWO discs and practically a book pamphlet in that case, and now Shrek 2 only has ONE disc with no pamphlet? Surely those inserts couldn't cost too much money... Perhaps it was only my dvd that did not come with a pamphlet...but I don't think so, because I did exchange it for another one, and no pamphlet.

The movie itself is ok. Now however, I am beginning to realize that there is very little plot that makes up the movie. Instead, it is a small plot that could be resolved in a matter of minutes filled with an hour of making fun of other more notable and original works, such as "The Little Mermaid" and "Beauty and the Beast" both from Disney.

Shrek and Shrek 2 were ok, but I think after a while, the oher infinite Shreks will soon turn into those Land Before Times...they just never end and ruin the original.

Before all of you who simply loved Shrek 2 put down that this review was not helpful, just stop and think. I am not putting down the movie, so much, but rather the dvd. Dreamworks seems to be taking advantage of us through their marketing scams. If you haven't bought the dvd already, don't let them take advantage of you as well!!!

Thank you.