The series is phenomenal (and true to the book, as others have noted).  Rivals Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings, it's that good.  Don't doubt it.  There are plenty of other rave reviews to convince you on here.

The real reason for me to write this review is for the sake of those with a blu ray player that has trouble with the apparently overly complex menu system.  A lot of folks are having trouble even getting the discs to load, especially on the later discs.  It is not confined to any one brand machine, though some do better than others, and it seems inconsistent at that (you're not guaranteed to have trouble with these discs).

It appears the workaround is to load up disc 1 and then choose the episode you want from there; it asks for the appropriate disc and you eject disc 1 and insert the one you really wanted to watch.  It's a bit of a pain, but it seems to work, and it beats the heck out of waiting on and on, staring at a black screen wondering if the disc you want will load up on the first, third, or fourth try or at all.  Actually takes far less time, even after waiting through the HBO ads I can't seem to skip at the start of disc 1.

That stated, I still give this set a 5-star review, because even with this annoying flaw, it's still that good.  And beautiful on blu.  Do not hesitate to purchase this set--the extra features on the blu ray set are just as well done.  Rarely do the extras turn out to be so integral to an experience, and rarely do they meet, let alone exceed, your expectations.

Can't say enough good things about this set; just use the menu from disc 1 to load all other episodes on the rest of the set, and you're all good.  (Actually, once you have a disc running, you can choose any other episode on that disc from that disc's menu without going back to disc 1; it's getting the darn things to load up initially that is the issue.)

I hope this helps anyone who has been frustrated or was wary because of hearing the discs were buggy or something.