Dickens' tale of an abused orphan gets a deluxe production here with lively direction by David Lean, a shapely script by, among others, Anthony Havelock-Allan, some splendid performances (& a few clinkers as well) which is all served up in glorious Black & White by Guy Green,  The first part is so good it carries you through the somewhat disappointing second part.  The opening in the churchyard where Pip meets the escaped convict Magwitch (Finlay Currie) is so expertly staged it's thrilling & you can't wait to see what happens next.  Soon Pip is employed by an eccentric lady who has a fancy to see him 'play'.  She was betrayed & abandoned years earlier on her wedding day &, for her, time stopped that same moment.  In her great moldering house Pip meets the ward, Estella, who is being schooled to be a heart breaker of men.  Later a mysterious benefactor makes Pip a young person of great expectations & he is off to London for a new life, more adventures & perhaps discover the identity of his patron.  Anthony Wager is wonderful as the young Pip.  He doesn't have the creepy precociousness of some Hollywood child stars of the era.  His vulnerability is part of his appeal.  When John Mills takes over the part you understand what he is trying to do; play the part of a young man who doesn't know what to do with his new wealth, how to wear his new clothes or dine on strange foods with his new friends.  Play the part of a young man with no confidence.  Unfortunately Mills' performance has no confidence either.  Freda Jackson is his abusive sister with whom he lives along with his brother-in-law (Bernard Miles who showed up the next year as Newman Noggs in Cavalconti's NICHOLAS NICKLEBY).  Martita Hunt is the Miss Havisham you always wanted to see.  She gives a superb demonstration of how less is more.  Jean Simmons is luminous as Estella.  According to James Agee she is the first British actor to come to acting solely from the movies.  What she does here would be astonishing from anyone but from a teenager it's jaw dropping.  When Valerie Hobson takes over the role it's like going from Being to Nothingness.  John Forrest is young Herbert Pocket & when he morphs into Alec Guinness they are so perfectly matched you may find yourself grinning.  Francis L. Sullivan is Mr Jaggers forever.

A word of caution:  The character Pip's sister is so verbally & physically abusive that perhaps her scenes are unsuitable for children & young teens.  If you are a survivor of child abuse and/or family violence these scenes can trigger flashbacks.