Just saw this film for the first time on IFC and let me begin by adding to the multiple accolades about this film primarily because it's a great film for business school students of what NOT to do in the world of being an entrepreneur.  I'm very glad to see the failure of these guys and I'm sure they are still paying for it till this day to a certain extent, if not financially, then psychologically and emotionally.

I am a IT tech guy who was a part of the dot com bubble, but knew even back then it was not going to last.  I was trained from the "old school" corporate environment (ie. The Big Blue IBM culture, apparently, that was "uncool" to the dot-commers) of a SOUND business plan along with a SOLID structure and NOT JUST PURE VISION.  These guys were just over-glorified, ego-centric, slippery salesmen.  They SOLD a dream to which they crashed and burned and THANK GOD FOR IT!

I won't waste my time regurgitating the well-deserved harsh words of what real and successful entrepreneurs have already given them through the years, but my message for Kaleil to which I'm sure he has figured out now is "less glory" and "more humility".  Dude, successful people are "behind the scenes" not seeking glory and making things happen and are the REAL "Go To" guys/gals.  It isn't about your RICH image and your Tiffany cufflinks, but rather the BIG debt that only YOU know really exists!

I run a small tech consulting company based on pure personal passion and servitude to others.  Although I am not making millions, I am comfortable AND, I am NOT incurring debt.  I am also not spending much on marketing.  WHY?  Because my humble attitude and kind approach not only strengthens my positive reputation amongst my business peers, but it leads to a return in revenue which ALSO leads to others speaking kindly and the word of mouth spreads like wildfire.

I really wouldn't comment too much on a film, but after seeing these two guys, I needed a place to vent my anger due to the sheer stupidity of these guys.  I am sure they are "good" men in general, but they suck in business to put it bluntly and I'm hoping they both wised up after a good decade!