This movie seems to exude feelings that the average Joe has everyday in this country.  The disgust and utter contempt one feels for the injustices occurring everywhere.  This movie is 10 years old but has just as much meaning in the new Millennia as it did in the 90's.  It's about an average man, Bill Foster played by Michael Douglas, on the verge of cracking.  He's lost his wife to a divorce, lost custody of his daughter, and lost his job.  It takes the painful LA traffic and a broken air conditioner in his car to push him over the edge.  Thus starts his journey.  This movie is his story and his trek through LA to get back home.  It's about his abhorrence of everything wrong and he's not afraid to make it known.  This movie seems to convey the thoughts of many people in the US and it helps one empathize with his character.  You can't help routing for this guy.  He's just trying to make it home and bad things keep happening.  They get progressively worse and he gets progressively more violent.  Some of the things he does will make you want to cheer.  But in the grand scheme of things you feel sad for him.  
This movie is unique in the fact that there's not a true protagonist and a true antagonist.  Robert Duvall plays a cop, Prendergast, who is very similar to Michael Douglas' character.  He too is plagued by problems and he's such a warm character in the movie that one can't help but feel sorry for him.  His wife is having a nervous breakdown, and his only daughter passed away.  He has a desk job now because his wife wanted him off the streets and he's at his last day at work because he's retiring.  The other cops at the precinct, with exception to his partner, all give him a hard time.  During his last day he gets reports of incidences that he thinks are caused by the same person.  These incidences are in fact caused by Michael Douglas' character...And Robert Duvall wants to stop him.
So it becomes good guy vs. not so bad guy.  A cop vs. a self-made vigilante.  Who do you route for??  This is a sad movie that depicts what might happen if a regular Joe Schmoe were to snap.
The story, combined with great performances and an awesome, and I do mean awesome, musical score, makes this movie well worth seeing!  It's a very powerful movie that is funny at times and sad at others.  Anyone who's ever been angry at something will enjoy this movie.  Oh... if you're not sane please don't watch this movie.  It will give you ideas.