This is definitely one of Dreamwork's best CGI films! (IMHO)

This movie is pretty much 2 stories that merge into one.

The first is about the destruction of an alien planet, & a meteor from it's destruction, which crashes on earth. An alien that caused this planet to blow-up, named Galaxar, tracks this meteor to earth, in an attempt to retrieve it.

The second storyline is about a woman named Susan Murphy, who gets hit by this meteor right on her wedding day, as it crashes to Earth. The contents of the meteor, (or perhaps more accurately, meteorite), contains a substance which we later find out is called "Quontonium". The "Quontonium" causes Susan not only to grow to an gigantic height, her hair to turn from brunette to white, but also endows her with incredible strength.

After being captured by the military, Susan is taken to a hidden military installation, (which we later find out is the area known as Area 51-a bit that is played up for laughs), & encounters a rather unlikely group of 4 other monsters, who she is initially terrified of, but quickly develops a close friendship with.

But all Susan really cares about is being returned to normal size, & returning to her fiance', who we find out later is more concerned about his career, instead of her. But we see that she quickly accepts her "condition", & with the help of her other monster friends, succeeds in defeating Galaxar.

What makes this movie so enjoyable is the characterizations of each of the people. They are all so completely different. Not to mention almost non-stop action, which keeps the viewer attentive for virtually the entire movie.

There is also a great deal of humor in this movie-much of it coming from the blue blob which is named B.O.B.

The character of Galaxar, voiced by actor Rainn Wilson, is determined to reacquire the "quontonium" that he feels Susan has "stolen" from him. He intends to use it to conquer earth.

Galaxar is suitably evil, but sometimes is not always in complete control of everything, as we have so often as we have seen other evil characters. He underestimates the monsters determination to help Susan, & this is all played up for laughs.

Susan is voiced by actress Reese Witherspoon. Despite her height, she doesn't want to accept being considered a "monster", & is constantly having one of her fellow monsters, a mad scientist named Dr. Cockroach, experiment on her, in an attempt to return her to being normal size. But in the end, she turns out to be a real hero after all.

Dr. Cockroach, is voiced by "HOUSE" actor Hugh Laurie. A brilliant, (though '"mad"), scientist, he was experimenting on trying to give man the cockroaches ability to survive, only, to be turned a human cockroach himself. Among the other monsters, he is the voice of reason & order. The "mad" characteristic is also prevalent in his mad scientist laugh, & the crazy inventions that he comes up with.

The Missing Link, (similar to the creature, from the movie "Creature from the Black Lagoon"), is voiced by actor Will Arnett. He fancies himself as being the "tough guy" in the group, but usually ends up really not helping very much-more often getting injured in some way. But he really does have a kind heart. He is also good friends with another one of the monsters, a 350 foot tall bug, known as Insectasaurus.

Insectasaurus, (who initially was a small grub, that after being exposed to a nuclear accident, goes on a rampage & almost destroys Tokyo), before being captured, doesn't really speak, but more or less roars & makes other sounds, that only seem to be understood by the Missing Link, who is sort of a best friend to Him. When she first encounters him, Susan is initially terrified of Insectasaurus, but later in the movie, comes to regard him as a friend as much as the other monsters, & we see him being loyal to her as well.

General W.R. Monger, (a play on the term "war monger"), is voiced by actor Kiefer Sutherland. A die-hard military man, he is always up for a good battle, & shows no fear. He is in charge of the secret military instillation where the monster are imprisoned, but is never really mean to the monsters. When one of Galaxar's giant robot probes starts to cause chaos, he is the one who suggests using his monsters to fight it, as the military has not been able to stop it. He is always prepared for any eventuality.

B.O.B. (voiced by actor Seth Rogen), is basically a big blue blob that was created in, (according to the movie), a food facility, by combining a tomato with a ranch-flavored seasoning. He has no brain, & only one eye, & can change himself into almost any shape. Not having a brain, B.O.B. is not terribly intelligent, which is played up for laughs throughout the movie, & is constantly being corrected by both the Missing Link, & Dr. Cockroach. But like the other monsters, he too is very loyal to helping Susan out when she needs it the most.

Derek Dietl, (voiced by actor Paul Rudd), is Susan's fiance'. He is a self-absorbed newsman/weatherman/sportscaster who is really only interested in his rise to be a network newsman, & Susan's height is a deterrent to achieving that.

The part of the President of the United States is voiced, (very appropriately), by political satirist, Stephen Colbert. He is somewhat overconfident in his dealing with the space probe that was initially sent by Galaxar, & is the one who orders Monger to use his monsters to combat it. But more than once, he is on the verge of willing to give up. His first initial contact with the robot probe is a hilarious parody of the movie "Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind. But he flees in the face of danger, especially when he is almost killed by the space probe/robot.

Some of the very funny sequences in the movie are:

The parody of Close Encounters, (which I mentioned above)
Bob's inability to recognize that Susan is a female
Link's attempts to be tough, only to fail
Dr. Cockroach's mad inventions
The war room, where strategies are determined in what to do.
The robot probe chasing Susan through the streets of San Francisco

As stated, the actions sequences are virtually non-stop & very well animated in their detail.

But what really drives this movie is the characters themselves, & their differing personalities.

This movie is a must see for all but the very young animation fans!