Widely regarded as one of the prime films of Vietnam, Oliver Stone's Platoon may not be THE Vietnam film (actually, there's no THE *x* war film of any category expect the submarine genre), but Platoon stands out on it's own merits and really offers a viewing experience on Nam that no other Nam film has captured.  Platoon can be a somewhat problematic war film; perhaps the better word would be aloofness, but it packs a ton of virtues too, and is often very, to borrow another reviewer's description, quite riveting.

Based on Oliver Stone's personal accounts during his tour, Platoon is more of a representation of Nam rather than a completely accurate tour with a platoon, a polarizing liberty take by Oliver Stone.  Charlie Sheen plays a character based on Oliver Stone himself, and his character's idealism and good intentions slowly fade away as he deals with the reality of Nam, certainly not what he thought of the war before he joined.  In the leui of all of this inner change, the platoon's two leaders, Sergreant Barnes and Sergeant Elias, slowly divide the platoon into two dividing camps (rather conveniently, almost too much), putting the whole Platoon into their own personal hell.

In contrast to the horribly inaccurate, beyond stupid The Green Berets, Platoon's dingy, gritty look at living in the jungle of Nam is fully intact, and feels very real.  Platoon's biggest strengths is the way it shows just how harsh living in the jungles for these people were.  The enemies are just one of the opposing things these soldiers face.  It's a whole other ballgame wading through dank in the muddy grass, suffering physical fatigue, and getting three to four hours of sleep a night; yet even then, you don't really sleep.  All of this is on display and really makes you feel something for the poor bastards who lived through this crap.  That, in my opinion, is one of the things Platoon has that other Vietnam war films do not.

I wasn't impressed by the style at first, I thought the string score that played in the background was sort of melodramatic, but I feel it's effective now.  The death scenes are quite painful and you feel their fear and desperation, something sorely lacking in some movie death scenes.  The images Stone brings to the film are a high point, somewhat dramatic but never feel forced.  Stone manages to capture some pretty imagery within all of the film's grittiness as well, such as the light shining through the trees, and the pristine, quiet jungles in the night (and day).  It's all quite iconic.  The famous pose on the cover is one of the war film genres icons, and for good reason.

Another great thing I noticed about the film is Oliver Stone' way of capturing many little points and thoughts of war that seem quite real.  His directing talents make sure of that.  The beginning scene for example, where a fresh faced Charlie Sheen arrives to be departed, gets his look at some veterans and body bags, and we get the feeling of the type of uncertainty that's already seeping through him.  Things like this that give the film a feeling of wisdom, a certain type of wisdom that only Stone would know regarding the Vietnam war, and it works very well.

When it comes to combat scenes, I feel, that, while they feel realistic regarding the tactics (yeah not 100 percent but that's probably a given), the somewhat low budget nature adds for some somewhat tepid combat effects.  It's not that ineffective, but other Nam war films like We Were Soldiers and Hamburger Hill are both MUCH MORE cringe-worthy and ferocious in their depiction of combat (speaking physically), and leave this one in the dust.  Fortunately though, there's a great deal of suspense and emotional edge to the battles (and war violence), so it does a fair job with balancing some of the negatives out.  Not some of the best on display, but given how crappy the sound design is, pretty impressive they were able to do something effective.

It's thought provoking look on war is certainly mature and quite good.  The surface themes telling that war is bad and ugly is shown beautifully through emotions, and that's what a good film should do.  The theme of how war makes us lose our innocence is very interesting, as well as the themes of being dehumanized and pushed to the brink because of war.  It's way of looking as Platoon as a common soldier instead of some big hero is good too (love the voice over near the beginning), although that theme seems to fade more and more as the movie goes on.  The acting is great too, giving the characters more life, even when there isn't much depth to them (Johnny Depp's character, for example).

Regarding the meaning of this film, to understand this film more, listen to the commentary and I bet you that you're appreciation for the film will grow.  Another thing that made the film a lot more interesting for me is not viewing the film as black and white.  Try finding a reason why these characters act the way they do, look for shades of gray.  They are there, but they take a little time to uncover.  Do that, and I promise you the film will not look as shallow as it seems on the surface.  It may have some unsubtle moments here and there, but it's certainly not as black and white as people make it out to be.

Platoon is widely regarded as a great war film, and I'd agree.  I do figure the film is not entirely accurate; rather, I feel that Stone was trying to give a bigger picture of Vietnam, it certainly takes liberties at times in the leui of a typical Nam experiences.  It is a fictional story after all.  But I would say to ignore many people who slander this film as one big lie, surely there are valid viewpoints from Stone; plus, war experiences are different for all kinds of people.  No matter.  Recommended viewing.