Sin City is the closest that mainstream US film has come to capturing the essence and appeal of graphic novels.

Visually stunning, each frame of this movie is highly stylised, no less than a work of art in itself, to closely resemble the style of the graphic novels themselves.

It is ultra-violent, this is Pulp Fiction on steroids, and will likely thrill or disgust those who love or hate the likes of Kill Bill.

I loved it.

It is set in the twisted environment of Sin City, part modern day, part film noir era, where among the heroes are Marv (Mickey Rourke as an ugly hulk of a man on a trail of vengeance) and Detective Hartigan (Bruce Willis doing the kind of role he was made for).

In short, you can't take it too seriously and I find the violence totally inkeeping with the style of the movie and the work of Frank Miller.

It's obvious that this production has gone to pains to be faithful to its source material. Therefore to make something that didn't have comic-book action and ultra-violence would have been a real sell-out.

Fans of Frank Miller have been waiting a long time for a faithful translation of his work to the screen.

Back when Miller produced the Graphic Novel - Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, I remember people having some hope that the remake of Batman would carry some of that film noir appeal and gritty themes.

What did we get? Michael Keaton in a rubber suit.

So I don't think people griping about the level of violence in this movie is really a legitimate criticism. Like Tarantino's movies, the violence is a dramatic device, and also a vehicle for humour.

I watched this movie with someone who doesn't know the work of Frank Miller and has little love for screen violence, but they really appreciated the design, art and style that went into it.

Plus, the storylines and source material are great with plenty of twists and turns that you rarely see in mainstream US movies these days.

I really hope this movie will spark off sequels and other faithful adaptations of graphic novels like those from Frank Miller.

Just to say it again - I think Mickey Rourke and Bruce Willis are outstanding in this film and are perfectly cast.

This movie is a triumph and hopefully sets a new standard to be matched by future productions. Highly entertaining.