I saw this movie for the first time this year (2007). I didn't read the book. So, you only have my impression of the movie.

For anyone who hasn't walked into a sound stage area or studied the Screenplay Paradigm, modern dramatic movies follow the three act model described by Aristotle in his brief but powerful essay called Poetics. As a side note, if you aspire to become a dramatic writer and you haven't read Poetics, shame on you.

Shane West and Mandy Moore are the stars of the movie with Shane's Landon Cater as the voice of the play with all action going through him. So, he is the protagonist. You may not have much sympathy for him in the first act, but then you get an impression that he isn't the bully he's portrayed initially. The subtext shows him as more carrying and torn between a kind and gentle nature on his own and the need to associate with the click and bullies of his high school. He also has issues with abandonment of his father acted out in interchanges with his mother played by Daryl Hannah in a dark brunette hair piece.

Forced by an incident where he is caught drinking and hurting another boy in a gang related incident, he has to interact with Jamie. First, he associates with her while tutoring disadvantaged children and secondly as an actor in the school's spring play.

The interactions between Jamie and Landon are push pull until the second act, which occurs in a major plot point set in the school's screen play. Landon becomes transformed and goes on a path of actions aimed to help Jamie reach her list of goals.

The antagonists in the play become his former gang buddies who play jokes on Jamie and take Landon to task for associating with Landon's new love interest, Jamie, the daughter of Reverend Sullivan played by Peter Coyote. (He gives an outstanding performance as a strong, insightful, honest and kind character.)

The third act begins with a major plot point that swings the action when Jamie tells Landon she has leukemia. Landon's personal fall occurs as all good students of Poetics know, when Landon goes from a winner having a life changing event. Landon has a great relationship with a beautiful, talented and witty woman that inspires and strengthens him. Suddenly he finds out that everything that raised him to a self-confident young man will disappear. It also throws him back to his primary emotion conflict, the experience of loss that came when his father divorced his mother.

Act three takes shape when Landon runs to hid father played by David Lee Smith. Landon feels spurned by his father, while his father actually attempts to help.

Act III goes by quickly. The sympathy grows in the audience for Landon and Jamie as she gets closer to death. Resolution occurs when the antagonists come to apologize.

In Poetics, the model governing the movie is a tragedy. The audience is genuinely moved. Landon loses Jamie and all the disharmony with her father transforms to love.

I've been on many sets, worked in a cutting room, made documentaries and have written screenplays. I recognized every fade, set, cut and shot in the film and it still gripped me emotionally as if it really happened to me.

Do I think of its as a great movie? I do, in spite of the sudden disappearance of Daryl Hannah's and David Lee Smith's characters. I can give you a lengthly list of movie making flaws. But, I cannot argue with the results of a budget-challenged movie.

Ms. Moore and Mr. West gave performances I thought they had within them to pull off. Instead of musical performers, they appeared as well trained artists from major programs. They met the challenge of Aristotle and passed brilliantly.