Bashing G.I. Joe: The Movie has become something of a cottage industry for fans of the toys-so much so that Devil's Due (publishers of the current comic book series) is contemplating it's own "tribute" to the notorious finale of the Sunbow run of G.I. Joe. The question before buying the DVD is whether or not you think it's terrible or a classic.
Simply put, the film is neither. The plot, which in keeping with the fantastic nature of the series (wherein the Joes have met the ancient Egyptian gods and allied themselves with ghosts, to name just two episodes) reveals that Cobra Commander is a member of an ancient race of snake-people known as Cobra-La. Problem is, Golobulus (ruler of Cobra-La) has become fed up with Cobra's repeated losses to the Joes, and has now decided to take a more active role in Cobra's quest to rule the world.
Cobra Commander's real identity is the main problem people have with the movie, even if it fits in with what little we know about the Commander (except for his interview with Hector Ramirez in the episode "Twenty Questions", but should we really expect the Commander to tell the truth?). His de-evolution into a snake upsets people even further, even if Sunbow's intention all the time was to bring him back in the series third season (which was never produced).
But that isn't the real flaw of this movie. The flaw is that, at Hasbro's behest, most of the existing characters (even those that had been introduced during the second season) are ignored in favor of the Rawhides, Renegades, and Cobra-La. Of the original cast, only Duke (who was originally intended to die) and Cobra Commander get significant screen time, and the other existing characters with major screen time (Hawk, Beachhead, Sgt. Slaughter, Roadblock, and Serpentor) were mostly newer characters. Like Transformers: The Movie, Hasbro decided to overexert their influence over Sunbow, at the expense of the story.
This DVD edition includes all of the "....And Knowing is Half the Battle" PSAs produced for the 1985-86 season (the first season); two ads for the original "A Real American Hero" miniseries (known popularly as The MASS Device), which are quite odd without the station IDs that each station syndicating the miniseries added at the end; and an ancient ad for the 12" G.I. Joe dolls; the last feature meaning absolutely nothing to about 95% of the people who watched the cartoon in the 1980s.
If you want realism in G.I. Joe, don't buy this movie. In fact, don't even bother with the cartoon-just go and buy Larry Hama's comic (which has a completely different storyline than the cartoon). For everyone else, be prepared to enjoy a decent movie, but remember that the story wasn't finished with G.I. Joe: The Movie-it just never got produced by Sunbow Productions.