I was born and raised in Germany and still live there. But in 2007 I got the chance to go to the U.S. for four years to work there for my company.

One day I was zapping through the channels and suddenly I stopped because I thought I had just seen "Matlock" as a young man. There he was, Andy Griffith in black and white and sooooo young. I wondered because in Germany he is only known as Matlock, who is grey-haired and old already. The Andy Griffith Show has never been published (aired) in Germany or anywhere in Europe as far as I know. I did't know that Andy Griffith had a career before "Matlock".

I was done zapping and watched The Andy Griffith Show for a while and I really liked it. Soon I set up my VCR to record all episodes. I was simply hooked! Of couse I bought all my favorite 5 seasons over Amazon already, I really don' t like the colored ones and I miss Barney there, just isn't the same anymore. I wonder if Don Knotts ever regret to part from the show?

I find it amazing that I became such a huge fan, I mean I didn't grow up in the States, I don't know anything about the Sixties and the American lifestyle and mentality back then, but to me it is the most wonderful tv - series for the whole family, a treasure, just timeless! I would move right into Mayberry if I could!

My stay in the U.S. was in the South so I got used to the accent very well, however I cannot share my obsession for this tv - show with anyone of my friends or family here in Germany because the Southern accent is just too difficult to understand for them and there is no German language (synchronisation) available and never will be. I understand about 90 % of what they are saying and I wish there would be subtitles available since we don't have CC in Germany. At least then I would be able to read the words that I don't understand and then get the meaning or look them up.

So you guys here are the only ones who understand my passion!

Unfortunately, Andy Griffith died last week, so I guess only Ron Howard is left.

'''' R.i.P. Andy Griffith ''''

and thanks for hours and hours of your everlasting and never dying work that (now thanks to Paramount) will be in our living rooms as long as we live!

.