In other reviews, I've said that I believe Jerry Lewis created 3 cinematic masterpieces: "The Bellboy," "The Errand Boy," and "The Nutty Professor."  "The Nutty Professor" is the most complete of the 3 and the most widely acknowledged as his masterpiece.  All 3 films represent products of Lewis' auteur theory of filmmaking in which the director has complete control of the material.  Accordingly, Jerry not only directed and co-wrote "The Nutty Professor": he also stars in it.

His nerdy character, Professor Julius Kelp, has become a movie icon and a seminal character that others have either consciously or subconsciously imitated.  The voice, the hair, the teeth, and the mannerisms all add up to an immediate comedic reaction from the audience.  Apparently, Jerry was on an airplane with someone with that nerdy voice and from that brief encounter he developed the whole Nutty Professor character.  It's almost as much fun to watch Jerry morph into Buddy Love, the swaggering, egotistical playboy that is the opposite of Professor Kelp.  I like the early 60s cool he projects, in spite of his selfishness and meanness.  And his interactions with the dean of the college make me laugh just as much as the nerdier antics of Professor Kelp.

Like most of Lewis' other films, this one is chock full of funny scenes, such as when Professor Kelp goes to work out with a barbell, when Buddy Love first comes into the Purple Pit and asks for a drink called an Alaskan Polar Bear, when we get to see Professor Kelp as a baby, and when the potion begins to wear off and we see Buddy Love begin to turn back to Professor Kelp right in the middle of the song "That Old Black Magic."  There are too many other funny scenes to mention but what makes this Lewis' most complete film is that he produces as much comedy as the best of his other films but also manages to make a coherent story that engages the viewer.

Someone like me is always roots for the underdog, so it's nice to see a Professor Kelp of the world succeed in the end.  I should also add that there's something about the ambience of the film (Lewis is always aware of space and design in his best films) that appeals to me immensely.  In fact, I want to go out tonight to the Purple Pit, if only there were one in town.

It's safe to say that if you don't appreciate "The Nutty Professor" then you're likely to be one of those people who can't stand Jerry Lewis.  Even if you've seen some of Jerry's inferior movies, you owe it to yourself to at least watch the original "The Nutty Professor."