Jean Renoir's iconic Rules of the Game (La R&egrave;gle du jeu) is considered one of cinema's great films.  In fact, many critics and film periodicals and websites list this film among the 100 greatest ever produced.  The film bends genres, having comedic elements while being a drama at it's heart.  It has a hint of the absurd, though nothing as over the top as the later French New Wave films.  It is well known that Jullian Fellowes and Robert Altman took much influence from this film for the film Gosford Park.  There are several remarkable similarities, only a slight difference in the 'surprise' at the ending.  This film does feature a hunt (pheasant and rabbit though) and several scenes centered around the servants, highlighting what the British call "Upstairs/downstairs".

The relationships at first seem confusing.  After awhile it all becomes clearer when you realize that pretty much all of the principal characters are romantically involved with each other.  So here goes a quick summary of the romantic entanglements (to help you out).  Lord Robert Cheyniest is married to the Austrian Christine de la Cheyniest.  Christine has been having an affair with pilot Andr&eacute; Jurieux.  Andr&eacute;'s friend is Octave (played by Jean Renoir himself) and he is having an affair with Christine's maid Lisette.  Lisette is married to Robert's gamekeeper Edouard Schumacher.  Genevi&egrave;ve de Marras is the mistress of Lord Robert and also has had an affair with several other characters (implied rather than stated).  Phew.

Much of the story revolves around the difficulty in all of the characters keeping their affairs private from others.  Though most know about the affairs (such as Lord Robert being aware that his wife has been with Jurieux), they keep these events private to be clear of public scandal.  As events progress, several characters mention that if two of the unattached characters would just pair up, then most of the confusion would be solved.

The 'Rules' are the unstated social mores surrounding the affairs of the Bourgeoisie. When one character begins talking of running off with another, Octave tells him "You can't do that, it's against the rules!  You can't run off with one man's wife after he welcomes you into his house and shakes your hand!".  And it's these little rules that keep the silly affairs from getting out of hand.  When a couple of characters actually try to break the rules, there are unforeseen repercussions due to a case of mistaken identity.  You'll understand when the film had ended.  I do not want to spoil anything.

I really didn't enjoy the hunt scene, since it actually looked like real footage from a real hunt.  Nowadays there are restrictions on actually killing animals on screen, but in 1939 those rules didn't exist, especially in Europe.  So just be aware that there is quite the rabbit slaughter in the middle of the film.

The film was shot in regular 4:3 ratio.  The restoration is nothing short of spectacular.  It is based on the 106 minute restoration approved by Renoir in 1959.  Criterion has included a remarkable list of special features. Included are the following (and more):  audio commentary, comparison of the two alternate endings, selected scene analysis by a Renoir historian, excerpts from a French television program based on the film, part one of the Jean Renoir BBC documentary (1993), video essays, discussion on the restoration, interviews with Renoir's son, Renoir's set designer, actress Mila Par&eacute;ly (Genevi&egrave;ve de Marras), and a 24 page booklet with writings by Renoir, Truffaut, and others.

Criterion has brought an amazing film to restored glory.  It is a film that touches on so many themes, but at it's heart is about the people.  Characterization was always a strong point of Renoir's, and this film is splendid in that regard.  Renoir himself turns in a masterful performance.  The rest of the cast is spot on and their acting nearly perfect.  It is an enjoyable film that hasn't lost a bit of it's charm in over 70 years since its release.  One of the best pre-war French films in my opinion.