I watched Grave of the Fireflies again today. It was incredibly moving. Most people would say that it's sad and depressing, but I say that it's simply, moving. It moves the spirit like no other anime (or animated for that matter) can. The movie tells the somewhat autobiographical story of a boy and his younger sister, two Japanese children during world war II.
SPOILER

The boy's mother dies during a bombing, and in an indescribably moving scene, he swings on a gymnastics bar in their back yard trying to cheer up his crying younger sister, "Watch me, I'm good at this!" He says.
To no avail. His sister doesn't even look at him. Trying to hide his own sorrow, perhaps he's even trying to cheer himself up.

By the end of the movie, they do die, but it's not a depressing end in my opinion. By earthly standards it could be considered depressing, but by spiritual standards, I find it more uplifting than anything. They conquer death by becoming spirits who observe their world with happiness, and still show compassion for one another, "Setsuko, it's time to go to bed," The boy says with a smile, sitting on a park bench, holding his younger sister. They don't care that they're dead. They conquered death. They conquered all of that hatred and killing that destroyed them. I can't help but cry by the end of the movie. I'm not sad though, i cry from the beauty of it. From the beauty of the human spirit. The spirit I believe given by God that reflects His image. I feel not sad, but humbled to witness such love, kindness and optimism shown by human beings. I feel like I'm almost not worthy. Why do I have to be such a crappy person compared to these people? I want to become better and show this love and kindness to others. I learned a term for this a few semester ago, called "catharsis." It was used to describe Greek tragedy plays, and the purging of self that occurs after watching them.

I guess what I've learned is that movies are more than just "entertainment." They can contain messages, that, although sad to many people, display some of the most important things in life. Movies are an artform, and this movie is art.