This movie was set in 1989. I am a woman who started working in the mining industry in the late 80s - half a world away in Australia. I don't know how much was 'embelished' for this movie, but it is frighteningly true of what the mining world was like then. In fact, they say at the start that the ratio if men to women in 1989 in the mining industry was 30:1. I swear, that ratio still hasn't changed much (but has changed for the better). Fortunately the attiudes of men have changed dramatically in that time - partly because of cultural changes, and partly because of someone like Josie, the lead character in this film.

This movie is about 1989, a time when the big mining companies - one of which is depcited in this movie - where largely vehemently against women. This movie is the result of a male culture and environment that thinks women can't drive a truck, get dirty, blow up rocks - that was all a man's job. Men in the mining industry in the 1980's really did maliciously plot against women - try to keep them out. When women started to take on these jobs, many men did not react well. Fortunately the number of men unused to working alongside women is on the wane. But back in 1989, this movie really tells you what it was like to be a female (or male) miner.

So this movie is about one woman who chose not to take the abuse anymore from her fellow male workers. It was horrifying to watch - because it happened to me! Not everything that happened to her, and I am at least able to say, for all their macho reputation, the Australian men never ever openly sexually harassed me the way the character was in this film (unless some ignorant engineer students counts). But the discrimination was real, very real. In this film, it was portrayed as sexual harrassment - and I don't deny the character of the film was sexually harassed, but a lot of abuse stems from blatent, utter sexual discrimination. And nowhere is that more evident than the still-to-this day male-dominated mining industry.

Maybe it takes being a female in the industry to tell the difference between sexual harrassement and sexual discrimination - but rest assured, it is still black and white clear in my mind to this day. If you are unsure - then you will be sure at the end of this film.

So for me, it was very raw watching the abuse Josie suffered because of course, I could empathise completely with the character. The reactions of those surrounding was also very real. It ripped open healed wounds in me to see the women not support her case - their case. That was as true then as it is now. Like her, the women feared for their jobs, the men didn't want to believe or support any 'problems' in the ranks.

I was much younger than the character in the film. I chose to leave the company and Australia - and ironically, fled to the mining industry in the US where Josie had, unbeknownst to, paved the way for much fairer treatment of women in the workforce (or might have still been paving it  since it was so close to that time...).

However, I do have to say I wonder how much was embelished for Hollywood because I never suffered quite the harrassment she got. There were always gentlemen in the industry who would... well, I don't want to say stick up for you if you had decided to take on the company, but were certainly a 'safety haven' if it all got to much. Most men seemed to deal with the entry of women by adopting a 'just one of the blokes' attitude - and I admire them for it, because they were trying to deal with a change they weren't comfortable with, but in the end, we all got along.

So I want to say that this movie is raw, it cuts to the bone of what the industry was like then - how awful humanity can be in a so-called 'civilised' society. It should shame any man watching it. And I dearly hope it makes so many of the women who take their freedom today for granted realise it wasn't all that long ago, they didn't have the freedom. I think her father sums it up very well towards the end of the film.

And those women made a difference - they really did, and I and the many other women who followed, directly benefited from their action. Thank you.