I admit:
Until last night, I, too, was swayed by all the negative reviews to skip this movie. But I had nothing else to rent, so I picked this up, assuming I will lose 90 minutes forever on a movie that had not reached its full potential as a comedy.
WHOA!!! Boy, was I surprised!

When I willingly encounter a creative work, I try to meet it on its own terms. So, when I watch a COMEDIC film, I expect it to be funny, not morally uplifting, or reinforcing my day-to-day value system. I check my morality and decency at the door. I will accept anything in the story as long as it supports its objective: being funny.
THAT is the point of humor, is it not?
But it is a psychological truism that all humor has an underside that is anything but funny. One should remember this when dealing with this kind of humor: savage, extreme, but above all, intelligently conceived.

For many years, of the three fictitious characters that Cohen created -- Bruno, Ali G. and Borat -- Bruno was the least interesting/funny to me. But in this movie, he distills the essential "offensiveness" that all three characters have in common, and pours it all into Bruno for a very powerful effect.

The genius of this film, and of Cohen's work in general, lies in setting up the parameters where ordinary people like you and I can trigger an "awkward"  or "uncomfortable" situation, and really show who we are as 'specifically socialized' creatures.
Specifically socialized: these situations are not objectively awkward or embarrassing or outrageous EXCEPT as they are socially accepted to be so. 'Losing face' in one culture may not amount to anything in another.
These situations are nothing more than some unexpected rips in the fabric of our socially agreed upon set of reactions. Cohen shows that we are not a whole lot more conscious or self-determining in our subjectivity than apes with their "Alpha male" social organization thing.

Thus, there is a dimension to this film that is actually NOT funny at all; in fact, quite thought-provoking. Cohen shows us, without forcing anything, the FULL extent of the collective "insanity" that structures the social norm. Watch all the people behaving the way they do: they (we all) cling to the Symbolic Order as manifested through FORM. The humor and the horror of all is in the way people react to situations and form - which are nothing but signs and symbols pertaining to the pecking order of one specific society.

This movie can be hilariously liberating if one can see through the absurdity of how and why people are so easily offended -- and people are most strongly offended usually by/about some concept that they cannot even articulate to begin with. Hence its inordinate power.

When you push something to its extreme, you get its opposite. If you don't believe me, try consciously making something ugly. Then see if you could make it even uglier. Not easy. You will discover that it's the same kind of work as trying to make something beautiful. This is satire pushed to the point of forcing it to yield its opposite: philosophy. Cohen shows you that the other side of 'funny' lies the 'terrifying' -- and here, the two are matched in direct proportion to each other. This is why those movies that make you chuckle pleasantly enough all the way from start to finish? in the end, they leave nothing to think about.
Is this movie funny? I thought it was hilarious, but then I would not put this in the same category of "funny" as, say, 'Wayne's World'.

If you let him, Cohen will help you see how "absurd" and "arbitrary" your so-called 'world-view', 'values', and 'beliefs' are when left unexamined by your own faculty of Reason and Humanity.