This movie is a good partayal of the life of Caesar.  It is not as historically innaccurate as some may believe.

Caesar's early life is not well documented in history because he was not important.  Granted, his uncle was Marius, but Marius had no plans for Caesar.  Caesar's arrest and meeting with Sulla may not be recorded, but it is highly probable that it occurred.  His father-in-law fled Sulla's men in Rome and Caesar may have had something to do with it, therefore Sulla would want to know.  Crassus' absence is because he played no major role in Caesar's rise to power.  His own wealth was more important.  Crassus was commissioned to put down the slave revolt, but Pompey was called back anyway.  At the final defeat of Spartacus, Crassus had already won the battle when Pompey arrived and killed most of the remaining rebels.  He returned to Rome before Crassus, with prisoners, so there was no reason for anyone to beleive Crassus had really won the battle.  When Crassus went to conquer Parthia, he was given the Cavalry by Rome, not Caesar.

This movie is not overly violent, unlike most modern depictions of ancient warfare.  The filmakers choose to focus on the tactical expertise of Caesar, rather than his physical might.  The point is not that his men fought, but rather that he placed them well.  This movie portrays the battle order of the romans well.  It also shows the difference in the method of waging war between Rome and Gaul.  The Romans fight as a unit; well ordered and mobile.  The Gauls use the brute force of their men whom, once committed, will either win, or retreat in disorder.  This movie shows well the tactical difference between the Romans and Gauls.

The omission of the British campain is probably due to time constraints.  This was most likely the time when Caesar realised he could not conquer the known world, as he promised in Cornelia's eulogy, unless he had control of Rome.  The movie makes this turning point at Julia's death.

The filmakers did a good job melding the accounts of Plutarch, Caesar, and Shakespere, among others, to make this epic drama.  All accounts from this time have their own bias, so one must be prudent in whom one believes.  The use of extras to portray the two armies at Alesia is superb.  The performance of Christopher Walkin as Cato, the last Republican, is wonderful.  The speeches of Mark Antony and Caesar are both very well done.  The difference of style is well shown.  The deaths of Vercingetorix and Caesar have many historical grey areas, however, these are due to difference in accounts or lack thereof.

Overall this is a wonderful drama that none should miss!

If nothing else, this is Richard Harris' last film.  How can you miss it?