Wow, When I first heard of the making of Halloween H20, I thought "damn, as soon as a really good horror film comes along, they ruin it with about a dozen sequels".  However, after seeing the film more than  twenty times, I decided that this film was spectacular.  There is something  in the Halloween films for everyone.  The Halloween films all contain  suspense, violence, gore, supernatural occurences, but also displays a  touch of reality.  The plot of the Halloween films may seem  confusing, but after thinking, I figured it out.  The original Halloween  was filmed in 1978.  Halloween H20 was filmed in 1998.  You people do the  math.  All of the films that are in between, take place in between the  beginning and ending films. The character "Michael Myers" would  have been the age of 41 during this film; in his prime.  The movie  itself has only one main goal; which is to put an end to Michael Myers.  In  the 6th, "The Curse of Michael Myers", they took Michael's  strength WAY to far.  What I mentioned earlier, about a touch of reality  was that; Michael always seemed to be stronger than the average man, now  unless he goes to the gym, and benches about 400 lbs., then he isn't going  to be killing people in the manner that he does; violently, and powerfully.  On the other hand, Michael never acutually seems to go beyond the realm  that an average psychopath that suffers from schizophrenia would, which is  undoubtedly what Michael suffered from, after researching the disease a  little bit.  So, Moustapha Akkad should be commended for creating such an  intresting  psychopath.  I really loved the end of this film.  Jamie  Lee Curtis' character, I think, goes a little nutty herself.  But then  again, the director; Steve Miner, Keeps her sane by briefly showing that  she has emotions towards her handicapped brother.  Michael had put Laurie  through so much hell,  that I'm surprised that she wasn't crazy herself.  I  don't know about the rest of the viewers, but I couldn't handle seeing so  many people die at one time without showing some type of weirdness.  However, I think that this film puts a good end to Michael Myers' life, and  at the same time, gives the enemy a taste of his own medicine.  This was an  outstanding ending to a really, really, good story.