Teenage gang member & Beethoven enthusiast Alex deLarge is betrayed by his gang of street thugs & goes to prison. A model prisoner, Alex is offered an experimental treatment developed by the government called the Ludivico treatment, which is guaranteed to cure his ultra-violent tendencies & qualify him for early release from prison.
Eager to get out of jail, Alex begins the treatment which turns out to be a form of intense aversion therapy involving nausea-inducing drugs combined with forced viewing of violent visual imagery such as films of Nazi attrocities, designed to create a negative response to violence. During the treatment, Alex is horrified that some of the graphic films he is forced to watch are accompanied by his favorite song, Beethoven's 9th Symphony & sadly realizes that along with violence, he will also end up adverse to his beloved Beethoven.
When Alex's treatment is complete, the prison arranges a formal demonstration in front of a large audience of government & medical bigwigs. Alex is lead onstage where he is unwittingly put to the test in live situations involving sex & violence. Two scenarios are presented to him: an irritating man picks a fight with him, challenging him to brawl & a provacative woman stands before him topless, as if inviting him to ravish her. Each time Alex goes to act on his natural urges he is immediately struck by a feeling of intense terror-he can't breathe & feels as if he willl vomit. Finally he is brought to his knees on the stage floor, begging pathetically for mercy. The demonstration is deemed a success & the audience claps enthusiastically...but the sound of booming applause is interrupted when the prison chaplain quickly points out that Alex's so-called aversion to violence is obviously just a Pavlovian response to the conditioning of the Ludivico therapy, the resulting abstinence, nothing but a sad mechanical (like clockwork) reaction. Nonetheless, Alex is released early from prison as promised & goes home where he seems genuinely intent on starting over fresh as a reformed criminal.. Almost immediately however, he is met with conflict. He learns that his old street-gang mates have become police officers, a job where they are free to indulge the same violent behavior they did in their gang days-only legally (an ongoing theme in the movie) & they brutalize & beat him mercilessly.
Next, Alex crosses paths with a succession of past victims from his gang days, all eager for revenge. Unable to defend himself as a result of the Ludivico, he tries to end his life, jumping from a building in despair. When he wakes up, he is in the hospital, having suffered severe injuries, including head trauma as a
result of the suicide attempt. He learns that the brutal Ludivico treatment he suffered has been deemed cruel & inhumane by government detractors & that he is being sanctified & celebrated by the press & anti-government groups. Intent on damage control, a high ranking government official visits Alex in the hospital & apologizes to him profusely for the Ludivico treatment, assuring him that the government will compensate him for all his pain & suffering by reversing the treatment & returning him to his old self, & by kicking him a cushy government job with generous pay "a good job on a good salary", if he agrees not to speak out about the Ludivico treatment.
Alex enthusiastically agrees.
The last scene implies that Alex has indeed been cured & is once again enjoying the lifestyle of violence, depravity & Beethoven, as well as a new career with the government.