Have you had a bad day at work?  Did your spouse just break up with you?  Are you in the mood for 2 hours full of laughter?  Then you need to go out to your local video store and rent The Hangover!!  The movie stars Bradley Cooper as Phil, Ed Helms as Stu, Zach Galifianakis as Alan, and Justin Bartha as Doug, with appearances by Heather Graham and Mike Tyson.
 The movie starts out with Alan, Phil, and Stu, who are planning on taking Doug to Las Vegas for his bachelor party the night before his wedding.  They check into Caesars Palace and end up on the roof of the hotel taking shots.....from there on, the rest of the movie is played in flashbacks.
 The day after the night scene is shown, we see the guys in their hotel room wake up, with a big mess in the room which includes chickens running around, drinks all over the place, a tiger in the bathroom, and a baby in the closet.  Stu wakes up and is missing a tooth, but more importantly, they realize that Doug is missing; Alan goes to use the bathroom and discovers the tiger in the bathroom.  Later on in the movie, Stu has married an escort, who is the mother of the baby that was found in the closet, and this leads to them putting together more pieces of the events that had happened to them the previous night, which includes trying to find Doug.  While they are out, they end up in jail for stealing a police car that they didn't remember stealing.  When they return to their hotel room, they walk into their room to find Mike Tyson, who is apparently the owner of the tiger that was in the bathroom.  The guys end up running into a local mobster who tells them that he has Doug, as a result of the guys stealing his winnings at a blackjack table the night before.  They end up winning back the money and end up getting Doug, but it isn't their friend, which goes into a whole discussion about drugs and at this point, Stu figures out that Doug is still up on the roof of the motel.  They rescue him, drive quickly back to Los Angeles for Doug's wedding.  After the wedding, the guys gather to look at the pictures of what really happened to them that night.
 Overall, this movie might be one of the funniest movies to ever be made, and I am anxious to see what movie will come out in the next couple years that will be funnier then this one.  So like I said before, if you're in the mood for screwball antics and non stop laughter, then you need to drive to your local video store and rent this movie, I guarantee you will laugh hysterically.