"Lord of War" --in my humble opinion-- is an Americanized and fictionalized biography of the notorious Russian arms dealer Victor Bout (the real "death merchant") who literally "made a killing" since the fall of the Soviet Union selling weapons to pretty much anyone who could pay for them.

"Lord of War" --when it sticks to the gunrunning-- is an excellent movie.  It does a particularly fine job demonstrating what people like Victor Bout made possible in places like Liberia and Sierra Leone (think "Lord of the Flies" in Africa).  Some of the vignettes are priceless like when Yuri (the character played by Nicolas Cage) evades having a freighter of his laden with contraband seized the authorities through a hastily improvised deception.  Another great moment is when we get to see happens to valuable property like cargo planes when they are left unattended in places like Liberia and Sierra Leone (think "chop shop" on an epic scale).

The movie does have some problems with it that prevent me from giving it five stars:

-The plotline involving Yuri's wife is pretty unbelievable.  If you are married to someone like Victor Bout for a long period of time and you profess to be oblivious to his business, you're either lying, being willfully blind, or are too stupid to live.

-The idea that after Yuri had been indicted and arrested (and a trailer full of incriminating evidence seized as well), he could be sprung from jail by some shadowy US Army officer is ludicrous.  How do I know this?  Because, I did a study on another one of nature's noblemen Manuel Noriega some years back.  Even though he was once very useful to the US and in the pay of the CIA, once he was indicted for drug trafficking, it became impossible for the US to use him as proxie.  The same thing would apply in Yuri's case.  Once he was indicted, I'm sure that anyone who was making use of him would have dropped him like a hot potatoe.

My final beef with the movie is the text that comes on the screen right before the credits role.  The words tell us --quite accurately-- that the world's biggest sellers of arms are the US and the other permanent members of the Security Council.

That is very true, but what the movie doesn't tell the viewer is that the nature of US and British arms sales tends to be things like ships, planes, guided missiles, and other high-tech toys.  These items aren't the tools of atrocities like those committed in Sierra Leone and Liberia in the late 1990s.  Those things --AK-47s, machine-guns, are the items in Victor Bout's product line.  Lumping sales of weapons to countries at peace with themselves and their neighbors in with criminal sales of "gear" to people like Charles Tailor of Liberia and the hand-chopping "RUF" of Sierra Leone is completely unfair and is a gross distortion of the facts.