This documentary was breathtaking, to say the least. I originally watched it expecting a nature documentary of a man who went and studied the grizzlies. What I came to understand was that this movie is not a documentary of bears or of nature, but rather a documentary of bare humanity.

The film is not one to be watched while expecting to be convinced of any new philosophy on life or to be swayed by any opinions. To watch is as so would be to destroy what it is that makes the film beautiful. Timothy Treadwell is a man who was led into the wilderness by love and also by hatred, by peace and also by anger. The film must be watched with one expecting to observe humanity in its most truly emotional and vulnerable state.

Treadwell's claimed belief in the absolute harmony and order of nature is certainly not one that is logical, but he was also not insane. Treadwell was a man drove to the edge; he was an outcast of love and of life. As you will inevitably come to notice in the movie, he has a very "unique" personality - one that would immediately turn most people off. In every way, he exemplifies the misunderstood. With a need to feel purpose and a need to find something to live for, Timothy Treadwell threw himself at the mercy of the unforgiving wilderness and used it as a means to leave the society that he felt rejected in. The wilderness provided him with a means of escape, a means of rebellion, and a means of finding something to live for that did not possess the human ability to reject him. The film is a portrait of a man trying to change his darkness to something bright. The beauty that Treadwell found in the wilderness gave him something to love and gave him a reason to direct his inner rage towards society in a manner that felt selfless. As you will observe in the film, Treadwell expresses extreme hatred of the Alaskan government and of poachers and pretends as though this hatred solely arises because of his care for nature and its animals. However, the film also shows Treadwell becoming filled with rage whenever another person or group of persons is seen in the wilderness. Recreational visitors, campers, all of them were intruders on the land that Timothy wanted to believe was created solely for him. It didn't matter what anyone's purpose for being there was; to Timothy, that wilderness belonged to him, and his divine purpose of guarding it justified his hatred of the outside world. Timothy's enemy was not the Poachers or the Alaskan government; to Timothy, his true enemy was society and all of the people within it.

The film will not show you a man who is spiritually at ease, or a man who has reached a miraculous harmony with the world and with nature, or a man who is, by any means, an innocent one. Rather, the film will show you a broken man trying to find redemption in purpose.