Ok, I have quite literally just finished watching volume 1 of the OAV and am ready to offer up my review.  First off, I want to say that I own the original 4-Disc set that was put out some years ago.  I loved the original version and when I heard that they were gonna release Hellsing as an OAV I just had to have it.  The version that I bought, I picked up at Best Buy for some $24 or so and comes with a bonus disc through them (it may be in the more expensive "Deluxe Version" with the Alucard bust, I'm not quite sure on that one).  Anyway, onto my review.

When you take a look at the back of the box, you notice that it's only 50 minutes long and you think that maybe it's 2 25 minute episodes, well, you'd be wrong, in fact, it's one long 50 minute episode or I guess you can even call it a short movie.  This one "episode" manages to combine the first three episodes from the original show (The Undead, Club M, and Sword Dancer).  The show starts off in the village of Cheddar where the undead have taken over and the police have been dispatched to the area.  Unfortunately (like in the original show) the police get turned into ghouls and Seras Victoria is in the midst of it all as Alucard shows up to save the day.  There is even a minor flash of the story for Club M, but it doesn't go very far into it, and there is quite a lengthy scene/battle featuring Paladin Anderson from the mysterious Iscariot Organization that lasts from about mid-way to the end of the show.

Essentially, that's the basic plot of this first disc.  If you've seen the original show, then you have a good idea of what happens in those episodes.

Now, I know that you're probably wondering why you should go out and buy this remake?  Well, the biggest difference between the original and this "remake" is that there is a lot more blood and gore than in the original, the ghouls look even more like zombies, and the creators have really amped up Seras Victoria, she's not so much a wimp like in the original, she's awesome in this remake.  Seras even trades in her police uniform for a Hellsing uniform and there's even a little bit of fan service (quick breast shot) of Victoria.  Really though, they've taken the original show, tossed it aside, and have re-built the show from the groud up.

The best thing about the show is that the animation looks amazing, especially during the fight scenes, and there are some "cheesy animation" shots, something that you might see in Galaxy Angel or Mouse or something like that, but the odd comedy is so out of left-field you kind of wonder if it really happened.  The only bad thing, is that the music in this volume is very sub-par to the original version, it's nowhere near as cool, but it's still tolerable.

Real quick, the bonus dvd runs a total of 57 minutes and has and interview session with the English Voice Director and Crispin Freeman (the voice of Alucard).  There are 4 different promotional videos, a non-credit ending, and 4 original Japanese TV commercials.

Anyway, this is a great set, I'm eager to see what they do with the next DVD and the rest of the series.  Anyway, this is a must own for any and all Hellsing fans.