I had seen the great lost Boris Karloff film, "The Ghoul," here on Amazon for quite a long time and have had it in my cart for a long time too. Whenever I went to make a DVD purchase I would put "The Ghoul" aside waiting to buy it at a later date. I don't know what my hesitation sprang from except for the fact that I was a little unsure of how the film would look and was concerned about spending money on something that might be a major disappointment. I had purchased the Kino version of Karloff's other lost 1930s film, "The Old Dark House," and was very unhappy with the horrible quality of the film print used to make the DVD (of course, that is the only print known to exist).

Well, I should have never worried about "The Ghoul." The picture and sound quality of this DVD is outstanding. The film looks like it could have been transferred from an original pristine master negative. I can't imagine that it looked better even when it was new.

So, what about the film itself? Well, I think you have to be a fan of Karloff and early 1930s horror films in order to enjoy "The Ghoul." If you don't fall in to either of these categories than this movie isn't for you. But if you are a fan of the Universal horror movies of Hollywood's golden age than you really should enjoy this gem. Although made in Britain, "The Ghoul" looks like it could have been produced on Universal's backlot. The atmosphere, the quality sets and photography, the cast (including actors who had or would work at Universal) are all reminiscent of that studio's vintage horror product.

"The Ghoul" isn't in a league with other early 1930s horror classics like "Frankenstein" or "The Invisible Man" but it is a reasonably entertaining production. Admittedly the film is a bit slow and creaky in spots but, hey, how many films from this era aren't? Personally, I found "The Ghoul" more lively and fast-moving than some of Universal's films of this period ("Dracula" and "The Mummy" come to mind). The film could have been more interesting if someone like James Whale had directed it but it is still good.