The Last Starfighter a movie by director Nick Castle (Major Payne).  It is a story about Alex Rogan (Lance Guest) who dreams of a better life outside the humble trailer park in which he lives.  Breaking the record on an innocent looking video game, which take him on an adventure well outside the confines of the trailer park.
This movie should go down in history as being the first movie to start using complex computer generated graphics.  Tron, which was the first movie to use computer animation, The Last Starfighter takes one step further by using more than simple vector animation.
The actors choosen for the role were superbly cast.  Lance Guest as Alex Rogan, Dan O'Herlihy as Grig and Robert Preston as Centauri.  Each actor cast stamped their style to the character.  In Robert Preston's last feature presentation it was a intergalactic reprise of his character in the Music Man in which Preston stamps his style to his role and to the movie.
Nick Castle did a superb job in capturing the humble life of the trailer park and the complex war torn planet of Rylos.  Along with Production Designer Ron Cobb the created not only an entertaining story about a boy and his dreams but showing detail well beyond what was available at the time.
The DVD version of this movie definitely does it justice, with a remixed soundtrack, now in Dolby™ Digital 5.1.  The soundtrack isn't a complete remix as many of the scenes that used to use Dolby Surround still give this ambient quality to it, there is the superior clarity that the digital track offers and music wonderfully scored by Craig Safan also has been remixed nicely in Dolby™ Digital.
Picture Quality is possibly the best I have seen for this movie.  But still contains many of the flaws that were possibly present in the source for remastering.  With the DVD version the computer generated scenes have never looked better.
This is my favourite movie of all time, I enjoy all aspects of the movie and admire the work that Nick Castle and Ron Cobb put into this movie.