"Brother Bear" is a story about a young man name Kenai, who only want to prove to everyone that he is a man. After going through the coming of age ceremony, and losing his older brother Sitka in a fight with a mother bear, Kenai goes hunting for revenge. Even when his big brother Denahi warns him about seeking revenge, Kenai is determined to continue his mission. Little does he know that his future actions will have dramatic consequences. After searching for the "killer-bear", he finally has the bear on top of a glacier and by needlessly killing the bear he has angered the spirits. So to teach Kenai a lesson, the spirits transform Kenai into a bear, and Kenai is knocked both off the glacier and unconscious. He is greeted by Tanana, the tribes elder who informs him that the only way to become human again was to go to where the light hits the earth. And now Kenai has to learn the ways of a bear. Not too long after, Kenai, who is in his bear form, meets up with a very chatty bear cub named Koda. Meanwhile, Denahi is on the tracks of the bear the supposedly killed his little brother does not know that the bear he is after is his little brother. After a few close encounters with Denahi, Kenai and Koda manage to escape and make it to a bear event called "The Salmon Run". This is the time where bears come together like a big family, have fun, and tell stories of events that happened since they last met. Unfortunately, this is where Kenai learns of his wrong doings through Koda's story. After running off and having some time to think, Kenai realizes the reason the spirits turned him into a bear. And having to give some bad news to Koda, who finally finds Kenai, it seems that Kenai truly sees what not only himself, but others have done to bears. He realizes that it was not the bear that was dangerous, it was the hunter. But soon as he understands this lesson, Denahi jumps from off top of a rock formation and attacks Kenai. After struggling back and forth, the spirit of the eldest brother, Sitka, reaches down and transforms his little brother into a human. And it seems that everyone is happy. But after some thought, Kenai decides to remain a bear in order to care for Koda, and both Sitka and Denahi agree. But at the end, it turns out that Kenai actually becomes a man by his decision to remain as a bear and caring for Koda.