i don't understand how some people dislike this movie so much.  i love shakespeare and consider myself somewhat of a scholar of his works.  i'm all for retaining the purity of his poetry and works.  but his ACTUAL works and not the traditional interpretation of his works.  anyone who knows shakespeare should realize that the traditional "men in tights, and formal english accents" version of his works are just as much interpretations as this film.  None of them are representative of his original production for one simple reason.  his productions never stayed the same.  nothing was set in stone.  each performance of every play would vary depending on the audience.  mostly performed in open air theatres,  he had to compete with the stench of the streets, the shouts of people selling thier wares, the ever present noisy drunks...he was the MASTER of improv.  even the written version of the play was never one complete manuscript.  it was put together by people from different bits and pieces, from different productions, and different versions.  many of these were never written by shakespeare's hand, but by people paid to write down the lines as they were spoken during the production.  the only way that you can look critically at any interpretation of shakespeare, is to look at the intent of the play and the corresponding intent of the interpretation.  this movie's intent is very much the same as shakespeare's, from all evidence.  verona beach is exotic, violent, sexy and religious, just like Verona, Italy was considered to be by londoners in his time.  
Shakespeare's main intent of the play was to relay a story... a beautiful story, to any and all of the people in his audience, from beggars to lords.  and he did it however he could.  every traditional version of the play i've ever seen tried to formalize shakespeare.  he wasn't formal, he was a commoner with a great talent.  other plays have cleaned up, edited out, or lightly brushed past the innuendo and the entendres he included in his work. unless you were lucky enought to under stand the meaning behind the words, you were left out on the joke.  no one ever tried to help you out visually, to help bring meaning to the words. Baz Luhrmann did.  he went to the same extremes as shakespeare would have to reach an audience.  he  brought out the ludicrous, the perverted, and the hilarious meanings in shakespeare's words.  Baz was reaching for one audience, one which has been completely left out of the loop as far as shakespeare's works are concerned.  If you prefer the traditional INTERPRETATION of Romeo and Juliet than by all means go ahead, but I think you would do good to watch this movie with an open mind.