'Training Day' is a very different film to what would fit into the ordinary "buddy cop" genre; this film presents a subversion of all that is sacred in the "buddy cop" film, and it pays off. Denzel Washington's performance is incendiary and gives the entire film a sense of class that was needed to make this film feel sophisticated, yet rough, while not falling into clich&eacute;'s.
As the title suggests 'Training Day' is the first day for new cop Jake Hoyt (Ethan Hawke) the character is set up as a young, idealistic rookie who's dream it has been to uphold the law. This character type is the exact opposite to his mentor Alonzo Harris (Washington) who is a veteran of the streets, a man whose street savvy is only rivaled by his pure vileness. The next 24 hours prove to break Jake down, confront his morals, and meanwhile feel a sense of duty towards his 'trainer'. The characters snake their way through corruption, drugs and a myriad of other situations on the mean streets of L.A.
It is truly easy to see why Denzel won the 'Best Actor' Oscar this year. Normally the audience is used to seeing him in a protagonistic, good guy role. It was a huge risk for Denzel to present this side of his acting ability, and thank goodness he did. Alonzo is pure evil, who whilst both Jake and the audience can see his stilted moral views is oblivious to his own problems. As far as an antagonist goes it's the character that truly thinks they are doing the right thing that will appear more evil.
Despite this Ethan Hawke's performance cannot be underestimated. It is the perfect supporting character that plays the rookie cop role perfectly. His reactions to Alonzo's actions are so truly believable the audience feels the emotions along with Jake, and it is here the film makes so many gains. 
In the fabulous direction of Antoine Fuqua the mixture of cop story, and hip-hop lifestyle is mixed perfectly. The two facets fit perfectly rather than seeming too separated. His use of time lapse shots at the beginning is a very effective technique as we are set up with a fast pace that is continued in depicting the entire 24 hours of the 'Training Day'. The camera work fits in perfectly is portraying the nitty, gritty world the film presents, and I hope to see more from this upcoming director.
The DVD is one of the best one-disc films around. An amazing amount of features are fit into the disc, an HBO making of, Commentary, deleted scenes, alternate ending etc. make this the best way to fully immerse yourself in the film. As far as the transfer goes the picture on 'Training Day' is some of the prettiest on offer. It's crystal clear, as is the sound with every note of rap blaring from Alonzo's car radio sounding brilliant.
'Training Day' is an amazing film, a successful subversion of the average cop film. The performances are fantastic, the narrative is tight, and slick, plus it's so easy to see why this film won Denzel his first best actor Oscar. This will be one for the ages, and must be seen by anyone who enjoys a very well structured film.