It had to be a difficult pitch, even with the brilliant blockbuster director of "Batman" and "Beetlejuice" attached: a  fairy tale-like romantic-dramedy about an unreal man with scissors for  hands, who is taken in by an Avon lady with expectedly chaotic results.  However Tim Burton convinced the studio moguls to produce this film, it has  been for the benefit of movie lovers everywhere. "Edward  Scissorhands" is the most hauntingly, strikingly original and  beautiful film to come out in decades, and we still have not seen anything  quite like it since.
I have already exposed as much of the plot as I am  going to in this review. A straightforward recantation of the story would  not do justice to the complex thematic elements, the incredible imagery,  the perfect score, or the once-in-a-lifetime performances given by Johnny  Depp, Winona Ryder, and the rest of the amazing cast.
I say "complex  thematic elements" because that is exacly what this film is full of.  Many may laugh this off, thinking that the film is nothing more than a  strange love story made for a mainstream audience. To truly appreciate this  film, however, you have to examine the undercurrents of discrimination,  small-town politics, ideals of society and modern culture, and of course  exclusionism.
The visuals are nothing short of amazing. My favorite is  the obvious yet perfect contrast between the neon colors of the  neighborhood's cars, houses, and people and the pure black and whites of  Edward. You will find many other interesting visual ques obviously, such as  the "BANK" and the castle. Consistently side-by-side with these  visuals, the music is simply breathtaking. No other film score come close  to matching the brilliance of Danny Elfman's music, and no other score  complements a film so well. And for the performances, let's just say that I  believe this film to be the height of the careers of many of the stars,  particularly Johnny Depp, who has never quite achieved this level of  quality since.
Do not believe that just because this film was made by a  major studio with major actors and a major director that it can be passed  off as mainstream fluff. "Edward Scissorhands" is one of the most  underestimated and understated films of the decade. It is sure to gain the  recognition and understanding it deserves in the near future.