This PPV was ok. Michelle Williams opened with America the Beautiful. The Tag Title match with Kane/Big Show vs Masters/Carlito was soo predictable. We al know that Kane and Big Show would win. 6/10

The $$$ In the Bank Ladder was great. We saw Hardy vs Shelton vs Finlay vs Lashley vs Flair vs RVD. It was a good match. We saw a lot of jumps and cool moves. We knew RVD would win, but it was still awesome. 8/10

The US Title match was a little better than the Tag match. Benoit should have won, oh well. We knew JBL would cheat. 7/10

The Hardcore match with Edge vs Foley was best so far. The table and the fire was incredible! It was cool to see Edge win; I don't like him, but he beat Foley in his game. 9/10

Sharmell/Booker T vs Boogeyman (WM Debut)was crap.Nuff said. Boogeyman won. 1/10

Womens Title Mickie(WM Debut) vs Trish[C] was good. Mickie really worked on Trish. It was kinda sad to see Trish lose her title. Great Womens match. 8/10

Casket Match Henry vs Undertaker was cool. I've never seen UT jump like that before! Henry is a badd wrestler. It was pretty predictable in the way that UT won, and that he would win. UT is 14-0. Pretty good match! 8.5/10

No Holds Barred HBK vs Vince was awesome! Shane getting cuffed to the ring was funny. This match was very entertaining, and the D-X Crotch Chops by HBK were great. That 20 ft ladder jump was phenominal! 9/10

Triple Threat World Title- Rey vs Orton vs Angle. It was a fantastic match. Great wrestling by all 3 men.I, personally hated the outcome. It was predictable; Rey winning the title for Eddie. Much love to Eddie, but REY IS OVERRATED FOR GOD SAKES! Angle or Orton should have won. 9/10

Playboy Pillow Fight Torrie vs Candice. I'm wondering why they're in evening gowns, and why they stripped eachother. ?? I loved that Torrie won, and that she had Chole[her dog] As you would imagine this wasn't really a wrestling match per say,more of a cat fight. There were some wrestling moves. This shouldn't have been the pre main event!! MY goodness! 5.5/10

WWE TITLE HHH vs Cena

Fantabulous match! Best of the night. These men put on a great fight. Cena really has been using the ST-FU. I thought HHH would win, but no, Cena pulled it off! 10/10

Overall, this was an OK Wrestlemania. One question, why does RAW always have the main event? A World Title match went before a pillow fight! If the WWE wants more people to like SD! don't have your SD! main event go beforea playboy pillow fight!