I see from other reviews people upset by the fact that this does not have documentary-style factual accuracy. That is true. However, it has a great deal of emotional accuracy. I saw this as a child and for the first time, I began to understand that the Civil War wasn't just about the Union vs. the Confederacy or the war over slavery. There were real people in those uniforms, and this miniseries very effectively conveys their pain and desperation, but also includes their occasional joys and celebrations.  It's a good intro simply because it eases one into the Civil War and thereby engages interest. If you want to learn more, you can.  Also, the violence is portrayed in a way that still gets the horrors across without being horribly graphic, which is good for younger viewers.

And even though there are inaccuracies, they do not in my opinion distract from the storyline and are not glaring unless you have specialized Civil War knowledge. Why pop a vein over the fact that a uniform doesn't have the right number of buttons on it or something? If they allow Mary Todd Lincoln to arrive with her husband instead of a couple hours later in order to show them together, is that really so horrifying? What's the other option, showing a scene of her coming up later, Lincoln explaining the situation as Geyser waits around for her, then finally drawing a picture of them together? That kind of thing slows a show's pace down to a crawl. The same is true for the expecations that every battle sequence should be long and elaborate. They do only have six hours. But if that kind of thing is all you're concerned about, then it's true you won't like this film.  If you're looking for an interesting tale of the Civil War, though, this does the trick.

Consider - how accurate is Gone With the Wind?  How realistic is it? Yet it's considered a classic. And Scarlett even has (gasp) psychic dreams!  (Remember the recurring dream where she's running through the fog searching that foretells her doing so at the end when she runs to Rhett?) I'm not saying this is Gone With the Wind; however, it is obvious that one can't judge the quality of a film soley on rigid standards of realism.

The only reason I don't give it 5 stars is because there is a bit of overacting and cheesy dialogue at times. After all, it IS a miniseries.  But as I said before, it's entertaining and a good way to engage interest in the Civil War, especially in a younger person.