Ok, so I get Evelyn Waugh, but I didn't read "Vile Bodies" (supposedly the "source material" for this film), and if the other high-recognition, "serious" film critics are to be believed, I guess I should avoid the book, too, as they all say it is a fairly good film rendition of the book. That said, however, this disconnected, unsure "comedy" made me REEEEALLY hate people...particularly those 25-35 years old, with money, who fancy they are witty, charming and oh so endearingly smart...and in this film.

The acting was good if that's the kind of shallow, undeveloped characters you're going for, and the pictures pretty, but I couldn't tell what, if anything, I was supposed to be getting from this movie, the characters or Evelyn Waugh. Am I supposed to be saddened? Outraged? Tickled? Is what she said funny or just pathetic? Is the "hero" a good guy, a bad guy or just morally adrift without any touchstones? What the he11 happened to 1930 to 1943? Where does this story line lead? What happened to her? Why is he acting like THAT? What, yet ANOTHER pointless storyline?

AND HOW DOES THIS BOWL OF COLD SPAGHETTI GET SUCH RAVES?

With so many happy/sad/comic/dramatic moments plopped in the bowl, it was like Benny Hill doing The Deer Hunter.

All-in-all, I really suspect that this is a case of the critics nodding their weighty approval despite the Emperor having no clothes...it has tons of gay overtones and references, based on a morally bankrupt crowd and the loosest mores of the period by a bisexual author with hermaphroditic name, so, WOW!...it MUST be GOOD! (To say otherwise would make a homophobe, of course!)

Bullocks. I say this is boring, hollow, self-glorifying tripe on cellulose...er, plastic.

Thank goodness I got this second hand at a pawn shop. It'll make good re-gifting to snotty sychophants of the Critic World I hate giving any thought to when it comes time for obligatory Christmas gifts.

While the cinematography was a pretty postcard look thru the Flapper Era, it would have better made a good silent movie or visual accompaniment to some documentary narrated by Sir Lawrence Olivier or James Mason on The History Channel...you know, the kind with muffled crowd noises and horses clopping in the background. Might I suggest just watching The History Channel.