What made the original and 2 sequels (horrible and cheasy sequels) at least decent was the campy nature and general love for import racing and streetracing. You felt that the movie was made by import car enthusiasts FOR import car enthusiasts. Sure the plot of the original might've been stretched and forced and at some points desperate, and the acting might've been somewhat cheesy, but overall you came to love the characters because they felt like real people, maybe not poeple you'd know or hang out with but real people. They messed up, got into fights, made mistakes, and became vulnerable and emotional. On top of that, the cars had a personality of their own, the car LINGO was interesting, and the overall love for cars was noteworthy. It was like the feeling of a car enthusiast going "yea, that's right" and almost feeling like they can contribute to all the gearhead talk of the first flick.
Then came the 2 sequels which while may have failed in the script and acting department, still won in the car enthusiast department. You watched the movie for the fast gorgeous cars, the hookups and the sexy women, and that's all you needed.

Now come in the 3rd sequel (or REAL first sequel) to the original; Fast and Furious. In short, the movie starts off promising within the first 5 minutes, but quickly becomes sunk and buried under its own desperate need to create a "streetracer kingpin crime" story that goes nowhere and achieves close to nothing. The film becomes boring after about an hour of overly serious talk and desperate attempts to get us to simply ACCEPT and STILL love these original characters from the first film even though they offer absolutely NO characterization in this new story of theirs.
To filmmakers: even if there were 5 F&F sequels featuring the same people and all of the first 4 films were golden, you STILL need to create worthwhile character situations and circumstances in the 5th film or else we'd hate it, memorable characters or no memorable characters. You cannot expect their performances in the original film to carry through to this one where there pretty much are no performances worth raving about.

The second tragic mistake about this film that the filmmakers made apart from deadpan characterization and an overlong and needlessly serious story and plot development is the complete absence of ANY sort of car enthusiast vibe or persona. Sure there are nice cars, and 1 noteworthy racing scene featuring nice hooked up cars (which lasts for like 5 minutes out of a 110 minute film), but there is NO car enthusiast talk, and NO excitement over street racing. They pretty much made a street racing movie without any real street racing nor ABOUT street racing. This is no longer a car enthusiast film made by enthusiasts for enthusiasts, it is now a crime drama 'reveal the druglord' movie made by greedy filmmakers trying to con enthusiasts by using the same characters from their earlier beloved Fast and Furious movie and trying to put it off as another dose of the same thing, when it indeed is nowhere NEAR comparable to the original.

And one more thing - what's with the forced hispanic "chicano" vibe of this whole thing? Now all of a sudden out of nowhere our main man Dom Torretto is no longer an average white guy gearhead but spanish? Was the first F&F movie too "white" for audiences? Did they feel they needed to "minority" it up to make it "cooler" and more underground like? Even the soundtrack is all a bunch of spanglish rap/hip-hop music that'll get on your nerves eventually. In the original there were various people and racers of various backgrounds and cultures, but they simply acted as such and didn't feel a need to rub it in other people's (or our) faces, they were real about who they were. Now all of a sudden everyone's gotta speak Spanglish and have a rippling bod? I am of hispanic heritage and I just find the whole thing forced and stupid. I can't imagine an average white viewer to be able to relate to this in the least, even IF they were a car enthusiast. Add a dash of a few scenes of grossly anorexic-thin girls making out with each other for "sex appeal" and you've got a forced and rushed film doused and marinated in CGI to simply make a quick buck by recycling old characters yet using them to no degree; they're all merely there for show to try and get you to buy a ticket.

On the upside, the blu-ray movie has really cool and interesting extras you might wanna check out. If you're a girl and find Vin Diesel and Paul Walker incredibly hot this is the movie for you, but I don't see any guys apart from burnout losers finding anything redeeming about this film besides a couple of decent action scenes.