I've just ordered this DVD after watching the VHS tape countless times long ago. I understand that Pink Floyd purists feel disappointed with the performances just because David Gilmour isn't there.

But in my case, I must say that I was never impressed with "The Wall" until I saw this show. I was 12 when the original album was released and since I was heavily into Kiss and AC/DC-type stuff, I never understood what was so great about "Another Brick In The Wall part 2", which got really heavy airplay and was a huge hit. Actually, that was the first time I heard about Pink Floyd in my life. To me, it was the coolest band name (still is) credited playing not so great music. I already heard bits from "Money", "Time" and "On The Run" on TV and really liked them, but didn't know anything about the performers.

When I heard that "The Wall" was going to be performed live from the  Berlin wall and broadcasted on TV, I thought "Hmm. 'The Wall' from the wall. Sounds interesting. I'll check it". It was aired in my country like one week later and not in its entirety, but what I saw simply blew me away. What a show! Still consider it the biggest rock show in history. The wall's building process and its falling is one of the most impressive things you'll ever see. That fueled my interest on "The Wall" concept and rented the movie, which bored me when I saw it from the first time in '87 at a friend's suggestion. Now everything made sense to me and became a big fan of the movie and the whole concept.

Nevertheless, the original album still doesn't impress me. I've never owned it and don't plan to buy it, but I have this concert's original two LP set, the movie and the deluxe edition of the terrific "Is There Anybody Out There?" (and waiting for this DVD to arrive, of course). Floyd purists may consider it blasphemy, but I really like Sin&eacute;ad O'Connor's version of "Mother" with the added vocal harmonies. The original "Mother" bores me to death. Ute Lemper's voice in "The Thin Ice" is simply beautiful. Still, David Gilmour's voice is irreplaceable on "Comfortably Numb" although I don't dislike Van Morrison's rendition. Rick DiFonzo does a great job recreating DG's style as well.

Anyway, while David Gilmour is a GREAT guitarist, singer and overall musician (not in vain the best songs from "The Wall" are co-written by him), Roger Waters was the band's real genius. I still remember picking the original "Wall" 2 LP set at the record store and looking at the credits in the gatefold sleeve: "Waters" was elsewhere. I will never understand why Roger looks so enthusiastic at the Live 8 reunion and David looks annoyed. The opposite would make more sense to me since Roger lost his rights over the Pink Floyd name (and that gig wasn't meant to bring him back).

Summary: If you're a Pink Floyd purist, there's a big chance you will be disappointed at the songs' renditions, but if your main interest is a really impressive show with great performers on stage, get this now. There's nothing bigger than this.