Yo Bubba, it's a COMEDY!  Not a spewing Bud Light through your nose at Larry the Cable Guy kind of comedy, but a sub-genre of traditional comedy and satire called... you're really gonna love this... BLACK COMEDY.  Feel free to ditch Junior's broken down Trans Am in the cable company's parking lot if they broadcast this movie on your local History Channel.

From Wikipedia:  "The purpose of black comedy is to make light of serious and often taboo subject matter, and some comedians use it as a tool for exploring important issues, thus provoking discomfort and serious thought, as well as amusement, in their audience."

C.S.A. does explore some important issues, such as revisionist history.  This topic appears important to several other "reviewers."  In the Post-Reconstruction era, from 1877 until Brown v. Board of Education, white supremacists, like Woodrow Wilson, were able to revise the Civil War story, making property-owning Christian Southerners victims of a "War of Northern Aggression."

This revised story claims Southerners had no desire to expand slavery, and that the biblical "Curse of Ham" would have likely gone out of fashion... like leisure suits.  This delusion remains today, despite the record of pre-Civil War violence in Kansas and Missouri, the passage of The Fugitive Slave Act, and the Dred Scott court decision.  This delusion allows John Brown to be rejected by the National Statuary Hall while Brown's captor, Massa Robert E. Lee, is venerated as a freedom loving patriot.

While the actual "Declaration of the Immediate Causes Which Induce and Justify the Secession of South Carolina from the Federal Union" does NOT contain any reference to unfair taxes or tariffs, the deluded continue to pontificate otherwise.  It does list failure to uphold the "rights of property" of slave holders, denouncing "as sinful the institution of slavery" and "the election of a man to the high office of President of the United States, whose opinions and purposes are hostile to slavery" as justification for secession.

C.S.A.'s lampooning of D.W. Griffith's "The Birth of a Nation" featuring a runaway blackfaced Abraham Lincoln may provoke discomfort in some viewers.  Both defenders and detractors of Lincoln are told that it wasn't about slavery, but he rejected the Crittendon Compromise of 1860... as in "bring it on."  The original 1915 silent film was based on "The Clansman," a play by Thomas Dixon, son of a Confederate Army colonel and classmate of Woodrow Wilson.  Wilson, the first post-Civil War Southern President, is quoted in support of the KKK in Griffith's blockbuster.  Wilson, when not endorsing picture shows, found time to bring the Jim Crow laws of the south to the federal government...that's called "Git'R'Done."

C.S.A. is not for everybody.  Racists, whether they fly the flag in public or only in their hearts, will be offended... as the rest of us are by them, and their abhorrent ideology.