Starship Troopers

Earth is at War with an Alien race of Bugs Bent on Destroying all of Humanity. The men and woman of the Mobile Infantry are the Only Defense against this growing Treat. Join Johnny Rico From boot camp all the way to Leader of a Platoon. Based on the Robert A Heinlein Novel, starship troopers takes away the books technology for political satire and the face of war. Instead of Jump Suits and a few Heavy armed and Heavily trained soldiers the MI is made up of Countless Grunts sent into battle as "Fresh Meat for the Grinder". It has spawned one of the largest Fan bases in Movie history.

Starship Troopers 2: Hero of the Federation

Most people did not like the sequal to Starship Troopers but i think it really makes sense, i mean, the bugs fight on the frontlines but that leaves no room for sabitage or spies therefore a new type of bug had to be invented. The story would get boring with nothing but mindless bugs working for a few movement deficiant bugs and the humans having advanced technology . sure the first one rocked but wouldnet they try to creat spies it only makes since and besides the writter of the first also wrote this pone there for its officialy tied in to the upcoming third film. I also like the new guns. weapons change after years of war and advanced therefore projectile weapones give way to energy rifles of more caliber. I enjoyed the filom and believe it makes perfect since in such a war.

Starship Troopers 3: Marauder

The second and Final Sequal to Starship Troopers. Johnny Rico is called backl into action to save the leader of humanity from the bug hordes. Now a colonel. Rico must race time to rescue the sky marshel before his troops are over-run. Little Known to most movie fans, this sequal has been followed very closely by countless fans around the world. It will be Released Direct to DVD in the United States and will have a theater Premier in Spain and Japan. The film lacks in many ways but still maintains an entertaining thrill-ride. Marauder also enters Religion into the Starship Universe and its role in the events. The most gigantic of enterence is the King or Hive Bug. The main bug. Which encompasses half a planet!

Features: all the Discs come with a Digital copy for you Ipod or computer and each DVD has a Making-Of and ST2 and ST3 both have production featurettes. They also redid the original films DVD to add a new menu and clearer sound and picture.