The world is split into three groups of people: those who have adored Leonard Cohen for the past 40 years; those who discovered him recently (say in the last ten years), and those who have yet to find out about him.  I'm in the second group of people.

This is unquestionably a 5* DVD, but this is no fawning review.  From end to end this concert is a blast.  The songs are fantastic; the singer is fantastic, and the supporting band is fantastic.  What makes it so?  Well, aside from the quality of the songs (and that alone is worth the price of admission), the whole thing comes across as hugely entertaining, and can I say, fun.  I've never seen the man (I wish I had), but I keep thinking of Frank Sinatra when I see Leonard in his fedora hat.  Let's put Leonard Cohen up there with Frank - one of the greats!

I saw this gig live in Australia a couple of months back, and the DVD is a faithful reproduction of what I saw, then and how I remember it now.  And therein lies a problem I have with the whole thing.  In going to the gig I read various reviews and such like, each of which was glowing in its praise, and each of which regaled us with a quip that Leonard came up with during the respective concerts under review.  Live in concert, as on this DVD, Leonard came up with the same quips at the same time.  This leaves me with a mild feeling of being short changed - the spontaniety one associates with live concerts is missing.  It's no big deal, and it shouldn't impair your enjoyment of what is otherwise a wonderful event, but I offer this view in sincerity.  In equal sincerity, I believe that it is still a 5* gig.  If you have $20 left on your credit card you have to type in those numbers now.

For those of you in the latter group of the three types of people (those still to discover Leonard Cohen), this DVD is a good starting point.  If not this, then the double CD, The Essential Leonard Cohen, is well worth considering.  It offers a few songs not on the DVD (A Thousand Kisses Deep, for example) and is a great place to start.  What the heck - do yourself a favour and put $40 on the plastic - buy them both.