Singin' in the Rain is an interesting movie because not only is it a musical, a comedy,  but a history lesson, that includes a love story.  Because of these qualities, Singin' is different from many previous musical  movies making it entertaining without being obvious that this is a  Hollywood 101 class. It is very unusual in that MGM makes fun of itself as  a film company, and the top star Don Lockwood played by Gene Kelly also  gives it the Hollywood touch by reminiscing not quite truthfully, that it  was pure talent that brought him to the Chinese Theater, not pure luck.
  Because of the humor the film is easily digested, without a laugh or  two, Singin' would have been too long drawn out for the average audience  such as myself to sit through without fidgeting.  In this movie we  have all the typical characters that make up a film. Jean Hagen's character  Lina Lamont is played perfectly as the dumb blonde because of her weakness  of  mastering the English language, but she is not quite so silly as we  expect, when she realizes the value of lawyers and her contract. In this  character we can see Marilyn Monroe, Jayne Mansfield, and Carol Lombard  They were not so dumb but on the other hand I don't think they had much to  say when it came to controlling their parts or their lives. I believe John  Gilbert was a victim of sound. After all his swashbuckling activities on  the screen, he rapidly became unfavorable because of his squeaky voice that  didn't match up to his masculine roles.
  Although the film is a  musical comedy, this history lesson on the transition of silent movies to  sound, is very interesting and although slightly exaggerated is not far  from the truth. On the other hand looking at films that were made before  sound such as those starring Charlie Chaplin, it took a lot of talent to  affect the audience, they either cried or were angry leaving the cinema and  that was without microphones. Looking back to the time that Singin' is  portrayed, late twenties, with the very clever but crude way they recorded  sound and its playback, it must have been very exciting visiting the cinema  then. It's understandable why musicals were so popular because mainly the  seats were inexpensive compared to attending an opera, a West End, or  Broadway extravaganza. In those days cinemas were cozy with thick carpeting  and comfy seats, not composite plastic, and of course the refreshments and  cigarettes being served during the intermission gave one something to look  forward to.
  I noticed that they didn't go short on the makeup in this  film, Gene Kelly hardly has a wrinkle and in 1952 he was forty years old.  Being the director, dancer, choreographer, and actor he had the power to  make himself as young as he wanted to be. I don't know how tall he was but  I don't believe he was taller than Fred Astaire, and granted Kelly is a  terrific dancer he isn't as smooth and easy looking as Astaire. One trick  they play in this film to make him look longer, he is dressed in short  jackets or pullovers that hardly fall below his waistline making his lower  body more sleeker, Fred didn't need this special effect.
  It seems  strange now, but when they did make silent films as shown in Singin', the  cast and crew were able to carry on a conversation, the director shouting  out instructions, move props around, and serve refreshments while the film  was being recorded, a very casual approach in those days.
  All in all  Singin' is a film that will still be popular in this new century. It  represents a very well thought out movie, it stars very talented people,  Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds, Cyd Charrise, and Jean Hagen  who plays her part perfectly, and it is an icon when one thinks of a  Hollywood musical, especially Gene's Singin' and Dancing in the Rain  routine.  Although Malcolm MacDowell  in Clockwork Orange does take some  beating, literally.