I don't relish being the bearer of an inconvenient truth which undermines the premise of "The Bear", which details the tentative, grudging, but growing relationship between an orphaned cub and a full-grown male grizzly.  In the true wild, adult male bears do not take kindly to young bears and cubs.  Quite the contrary, they will take every opportunity to kill and eat young bears and cubs.  Why do they do this (to human eyes) detestable deed?  They do it for two evolutionary reasons 1) to eliminate future competition for food and mates, and 2) if the mother is present, to induce her to go into estrus again and be receptive to mating.  So sadly, the underpinnings of "The Bear" are really a sentimental fantasy, instead of the gritty, naturalistic, unforgiving reality it purports to be.

  That said, "The Bear" is nevertheless meticulously, lovingly, and finely made, and still, despite the sentimental fantasy framework, teaches the viewer much about nature's conmingled majesty and menace, man's illusory, tenuous "dominance" over nature, learning to respect nature, and learning to leave nature alone and largely take its course. And, darn it all, the male bear/baby bear partnership, however unlikely, is certainly interesting, engrossing, fetching, and slyly humorous (especially the sequence where the baby bear (Youk) rears up on his hind legs and thinks he's scaring a cougar off, when actually his "guardian angel" (played by the late ursine thespian Bart) is responsible.  Props must be conceded to the animal handlers and trainers who were able to coax these engaging performances from the two bears, who were probably acting against deeply-ingrained instincts.  Even if "The Bear" is not strictly true-to-natural-life, it's still quite an influential "beast fable" that people, say 7 years and up, can learn from and appreciate.

(P.S.: On the National Geographic channel, they did show a program about odd, "unnatural" animal couplings such as a lion tenderly caring for a baby oryx, a giant tortoise palling around with a baby hippo, and a dog forging a bond with a lonely adult elephant. Hmm, maybe the bears' relationship in "The Bear" is not so far-fetched after all.)

3.5 stars out of 5.