OK, so right away, have to disclose that i was an extra on this shoot for three months growing up in Boston. My perspective is a bit askew, with nostalgia and personal bias. But re-watching this movie on television the other day, a flood of memories-- and the justification for my film school education-- return.

At the time (early 90;s), the period (1955) elements were more impressive to me than the subject matter. However, that period setting also distracts at some times. The sceenplay is written in a very "on the nose" television time constrained style ... one of those "not real" cardboardy movies that is a very direct vehicle for the message, not much in the way of character or extra story development.  This is an amazing ensemble of actors, that compete for the very few words available.

But the film is effective nonetheless if you're a fan of period reproduction, and the visual escape of watching an idealized America that (im told) no longer exists today; but whose subject matter does. odd juxtapositioning.

For true hollywood-craft production value, this is a great achievement by the best of that day's (early 90's) period re-creation technicians. Jeanine Claudia Oppenwall, production designer (very period affective, noted for other period pieces such as Sean Penn's "Paper Moon", pure, elegant, classic america); Cinematographer Freddie Francis (who shot many of the Hammer Studios gothic horror masterpieces of the 60s and 70s), who I remember as surprisingly short, but a very funny old english elf; Ann Roth, classic american-- the Ralph Lauren of costume design--giving us Brooks Brothers, well tailored men.

Then there's Robert Mandell. A man who, I'm told, is a very visually focused director. From my perspective, looking AT him, he looked like a frizzy haired aging wizard. We know most of the great names that made and were made by this film. But Robert Mandell doesnt really stick out to anybody as one. I think the film could have been recieved much differently with a stronger name behind the lens. However, from behind to in front of the camera, as a hollywood studio ornament or showpiece, School Ties is an almost unbelievable ensemble of great filmmaking/acting talent.

A dream team, if you will. Ultimately However, as a dramatic, authentic "real" movie, accessible to modern youth, the film Has sort of a high school play quality about it... as if the actors and sets are all working to convince us of the inaccessible fantasy land of the 50's. this is a cute, but ultimately negative, annoyance. the film narrows its appeal this way, as more a harkening to yesteryear for baby boomers; rather than a powerful strong dramatic vehicle for some very talented up-and-coming actors of the day-- true actors.

Alot of the talent was New York cast, as I recall; so right away the movie projects that mature and sophisticated sort of "east coast stage actor" independant film tone, dramatically. But their script is sort of a cotton candy version of Dead Poets Society. Like, combined together into one film, the two would have made a powerfully dramatic, visually stunning classic.

View School Ties as a visually beautifully nostalgic painting, not a dramatic masterpiece. A shame, as I remember quite a lot of great stuff; some shot and some in the script that never made it to the screen; more scenes of david and his family in the first act; a night shoot involving fake snow; more dining hall sequences (I know because it was literally OVER 100 degrees in that old second story location with no windows-- the prop food was melting, as were all of us in suits, for two straight days).  But what a fun experience playing dress up; getting in and out of old cars; wearing clothes from that era, etc... I digress.  But, as you see in the finished product, this is mostly what translates to the big screen-- not heavy on dramatic development.  For the principal actors, though, that sense of career anticipation and positive excitment I think gives the movie its own special, sweetness.  Amy Locane so sweet and pretty on-set; all the guys signing autographs and laughing about it... everyone having fun making this movie.

Ulitmately, it is Brendan Fraser who MAKES this film believable; the only actor who's not in the trap of convincing us that its 1955.

Regardless, the film does tackle anti-semitism in a mass market way. Then head of Paramount, Sherry Lansing, (who I rememember as a very smiley, intense faced woman jumping in and out of her canvas chair)  had been pushing this film through development for years, no doubt the reason for its commerical release.