Tommy the movie and Tommy the 1969 concept album should be viewed as two completely different interpretations of Pete Townsend's brillantly scored rock opera or song cycle.

While I liked parts of the movie it was just too excruiciating to hear and watch Anne Margaret and Oliver Reed hack up these songs.  It's hard to believe Townsend gave his blessing.

When it was released into theaters in 1975, there was so much buzz about Clapton, Elton John and Tina Turner's performances -- it was a must see.  Now seeing Clapton do "Eyesight to the Blind", yes he made it his own but I hated him singing it!  I enjoy the concept album version by the Who.  Then there's Tina Turner's performance.  I think Ken Russell was capitalizing on the drug culture of that time with the Acid Queen scene where Tommy is inserted into a sarcophagus with syringes blanketing the surface of it.  I never thought I could see the Acid Queen song delivered so manic and freakish. At last there's Elton John, he was a freak then too.  Even in high school I thought his version of Pinball Wizard was too piano driven and pop songish.  Elton's performance was almost of Weird Al Yankovich proportions.

All in all the movie plays very campy and I think it misses Townsend's original message he was trying to convey.  There are "new" songs in the movie that are not in the concept album.  They are rather weak.  I don't think Tommy's father in the concept album is killed off.  So that kind of threw me.

A glaring difference in the plot line of the movie versus the album is the movie is about this simple story of a Pinball Wizard.  That is not what Tommy is about.  Townsend himself even says that.  The fact that the song Pinball Wizard exists was kind of fluke.  While Townsend was working on Tommy and a music critic told Townsend he needed a big song.  So Townsend went and wrote Pinball Wizard in 30 minutes.  Too bad it became the centerpiece for movie.  If you listen to the concept album there are few references to pinball.  Tommy is really part of Townsend's legendary Life House project, as is the album Who's Next.

A key scene for me that at last conveys the intent Tommy is at the end of the movie when Roger Daltrey is trekking to the top of the mountain where his parents picniked in the beginning.  He is singing. "I get the music gazing at you...I get the story...I get the heat.. following you."  There it is, the message we all hold that note inside ourselves -- we all contain the music.  As Pete said in a recent concert, 'if they ever find the meaning life I believe when they do it will be a single note.'