The screenplay, direction, and fabulous performances make this film worth 5 stars!  I've watched it at least five or six times, and haven't started getting tired of it yet.
The story in a shot glass:  An out of control alcoholic (Ben) hits bottom, decides move from LA to Las Vegas to commit slow suicide, but finds love and some closure to his life when he meets Sera. Sera is a street wise yet hopelessly co-dependent  (first to her abusive pimp, then to Ben) hooker, who finds a glimpse of self worth when she learns to love and receive it in return.  Sort of a gritty, street smart "Beauty and the Beast" but without the fairy tale ending.
Cage is outstanding as Ben, the alcoholic in the hopeless, final stages of his disease.  He has the physical attributes down pat, from the shaking and glazed over facial expressions to the slow motion, understated weaving of an alcoholic with years of built up tolerance to the drug.  Cage's Best Actor Academy Award is well deserved, but Shue is even better (she got robbed by not winning also).  The pain showing behind the smiles she forces seems completely real, as she watches Ben slowly kill himself.  She is torn between wanting Ben to get help and the fear she will lose him emotionally as well as physically if she pushes him to end his self destruction.  In the end, they just choose to love each other despite the desperate circumstances of their relationship and the inevitable outcome.
While others described the ending as depressing (it is), there is closure; Ben gets what he wants, an end to his alcoholic suffering, and you get the sense Sera will grow stronger and develop some sense of self worth from the experience of learning to love, and learning to let go.
This film is definitely not for everyone.  If you are the Harry Potter/Lord of the Rings type, you probably won't get it, let alone appreciate or enjoy the film.  If you lean more toward "American Beauty" or "Fight Club", this is a must for your collection.
Best quote(Sera): "Keep talking Ben, between the 101 proof  breath and occasional drool, some interesting words fall out of your mouth."