Over the years, I have developed a love for good quality Anime. My sister saw this movie and LOVED it. So, with some excitement I bought it and watched it with my family. It is about device that allows Psychotherapists to enter into dreams with their patients to aide in understanding dreams and diagnosing psychological disorders. However, someone steals the device and starts to use it for evil.

The movie sounded interesting so I was surprised when, it left me with sort of a confused, disoriented, mind-screw sort of feeling in my head. This is because, through much of the movie you are never sure if you are in the dream world, or in reality.  Coming from western society, where all our movie dream sequences are very well defined or well explained, this movie never really tells where you are. However, it was still possible for me to follow the plot mostly, even though the end was even more confusing still.

After watching the movie (the art was beautiful), my sister helped explain it (apparently her brain is pre-wired to understand these sorts of things. She tends to reject the western notion of categorizing and dividing which I think makes her more eastern in her perception and philosophy.) Her explanations helped me understand it, but it did nothing to help our father understand or appreciate the film more.

Ultimately I find this to be an interesting film that is a must-watch if you are interested in experiencing a different way of perceiving reality. And if you have difficulty understanding it the first time, I recommend waiting a year, and watching it again. (That tactic usually helps me understand things that are initially baffling to me). The film is very artistic and intriguing, so I highly recommend watching it.

Also, Recently we found an article that found that most Asians look exclusively at the eyes when looking for emotions. So, my whole family watched only the eyes of the characters in this movie and it helped immensely for understanding what the characters were thinking and made them seem a whole lot less stiff.