THE DEVIL'S REJECTS had to be one of the most grueling, callous, offensive and insulting 2 hours I've ever wasted with a motion picture.  This mess of a movie only had one objective: to be as profane, vile and pretentiously sick as it's creator could get away with in the Hollywood studio system.  And I don't mean any of that in a horror-fan complimentary way.  Rob Zombie oughtta be ashamed of himself for being so cinematically masturbatory with so much contempt for the viewers.  I have this image of him sitting in his smoky little den, snickering to himself while writing the script for this steaming stinking excrement, flipping "the bird" off at his monitor as if it's the one-way mirror looking out to the mind-mushed audience who were ignorant enough to think he was capable of making a watchable movie, rather than the incomprehensible geek-show freak-show that ultimately was thrust upon us.  He should just stick with writing heavy metal music lyrics.  That way it won't matter that he's somehow completely missed the underlying social tension or heart in the films he claims to be paying homage to.  The script is so sadistic, if he weren't the rich and famous showman, he'd probably be some sociopathic criminal not unlike any of the stupid characters in his stupid movie.

 I'd heard that DEVIL'S REJECTS was a throwback to the old drive-in exploitation style. (Heard that about the pretentiously overlong and boring KILL BILL too)  But back in those days, the filmmakers had a little respect for their audience.  Characters had depth.  The scripts had story arcs and interesting plots.  None of which is on display here.  Back in the Drive-In days, the gore effects were physically done on-camera, rather than the flat, cartoonish CGI in this flick.  And the cameraman was allowed to use a tripod!  I'm getting really sick of that garish, over-saturated, bleach-bypassed, high-contrast hand-held cinematography that most Hollywood horror flicks seem obligated to burn our retinas with for the last decade.  The only scary thing about this movie is that it demonstrated just how low the standards have sunk in modern horror cinema.