In the far-away future of 1996, Los Angeles has been turned into a demilitarized zone, and one-man-army cop John Spartan (Sylvester Stallone), nicknamed "Demolition Man" because massive property damage seems to accompany him wherever he goes, is out to capture crime lord Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes) after he has kidnapped a bus filled with passengers. Spartan infiltrates Phoenix's hideout and captures him, but Phoenix has rigged the building to explode, and both cop and criminal barely make it out alive. However, it appears that the bus passengers have died in the explosion. Charged with involuntary manslaughter, Spartan is sentenced to 70 years frozen in stasis in a "cryoprison."

Fast forward to the year 2032, where Los Angeles is now the utopian San Angeles. Unhealthy behavior and profanity have been outlawed, violent behavior has become a thing of the past, and not a single person has died of unnatural causes in nearly 20 years. Thus, the San Angeles Police Department has been reduced to glorified meter maids. Amid the boring peace she lives in, Officer Lenina Huxley (a young, and very cute Sandra Bullock) opines, "What I would give for some action!" Be careful what you wish for, Lenina.

Phoenix, who has also been frozen in stasis in the cryoprison, is given a parole hearing. But Phoenix escapes and kills everyone in his path, and is now capable of deadly martial arts and possess knowledge of the futuristic technology he has never even encountered before, a fact that even puzzles himself. Now Phoenix is deadlier than ever, and the SAPD are completely unprepared to deal with the threat. Believing that "you need an old-fashioned cop to catch an old-fashioned criminal", they thaw out John Spartan and reinstate him in the SAPD to hunt Phoenix. In a future world they are unfamiliar with, the two foes clash once again.

Though Demolition Man comes in a wrapper of a cliched action film, it is comparatively deeper than your typical action vehicle. Unlike other films set in the future like Escape from New York which seem to take their inspiration from dystopian literature like George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, which imagine a future where morality and order is forced upon its citizens through totalitarian rule, Demolition Man pays homage to Aldous Huxley's A Brave New World by envisioning a world where people have willingly and happily sacrificed their freedoms in exchange for peace and safety. Several characters in the film are homages to the novel, as Lenina Huxley gets her name from the the book's author and one of its main characters, and John Spartan was inspired by another "fish out of water" character from the book, John the Savage, and other characters also refer to Spartan as a savage. Simon Phoenix even references the book's title during a fight scene with Spartan.

The film also addresses issues like ethics and morality, and touches on the issue of manipulating bahavior, a subject that another futuristic work, A Clockwork Orange, delves into. Demolition Man also seems to reference H.G. Wells' The Time Machine, where society is mainly divided between two classes, the leisured, frivolous citizens living above ground and the savage "Morlocks" (they are referred to as "Scraps" in Demolition Man) who live underground.

As for the performances, Stallone plays Spartan as a foulmouthed, frustrated outsider, bewildered by the changes the world has gone through. Sandra Bullock's Lenina Huxley is exuberant, naive, and perky. And Snipe's Simon Phoenix may be one of the scariest, most fun villains ever committed to celluloid. It's strangely enjoyable to watch Phoenix toy with his opponents like a cat with a wounded mouse, as Snipes seems to be having the most fun with the role. Other notable performances include Benjamin Bratt, who plays his role as a fellow SAPD officer with schoolboy earnestness, Nigel Hawthorne as the arrogant patriarch of San Angeles, Raymond Cocteau, and Denis Leary as fast-talking leader of a rebel group that is quite literally underground.

Filled with action, humor, and social commentary, Demolition Man is one of those rare films that excedes beyond a genre that is overwrought with cliches and conventions.