This film is an irresponsible rape of history for commercial gain. I'm not talking about omissions because of the limitations of movie making. I'm talking about outright lies. I can almost forgive making stuff up about B&amp;C since they were a couple of dirt bags, but I can't forgive making Frank Hamer (mispronounced in the movie) and other lawmen look like fools. 
Frank's service to society was quite remarkable. It was so remarkable that the justified slaughter of B&amp;C was but a footnote to his illustrious career. And what of the officers and innocents killed or injured by the Barrow gang? The movie makes their loss seem like so much fun at the penny arcade. Director Penn should be ashamed.
I doubt the positive reviewers of this film would be so quick to praise a movie that made Charlie Manson's group out to be a fun-loving bunch of misguided hippies. This is the exact sort of thing this movie did. The only difference is how old the crimes are. In fact in terms of the suffering they caused, the Barrow gang was worse than Manson. Those that glowingly praise this movie would be well served to crack a history book once in a while. I suggest Milner's The "Lives and Times of Bonnie and Clyde."
If you do decide to read about B&amp;C, you'll be surprised to find that some of the most interesting facts were left out of the movie. For example: They broke one of their buddies out of a major Texas prison from the outside. Clyde was a small Beaver-Cleaver-looking guy who deftly used a large machine gun (a Browning Automatic Rifle) because tommy guns, which are revered by Hollywood, could not reliably penetrate the steel of early 30s cars. And best of all, they really loved each other. All that lover's tension and sexual dysfunction in the movie is BS.
The actors did a decent job. They probably didn't even know that the script had very little to do with Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker. Even if they did know, they probably wouldn't care. The casting was horrible, but hey, once you cast off the annoying constraints of what actually happened, who cares? If the movie had been titled Bob and Suzy, it would have been worth watching in its day. Even if it were, these days it would be a waste of money.