At 55 years of age, you'd think a movie lover such as myself would have seen Casablanca... but I hadn't until I bought this disc in July of 2007. If you understand what makes a finely crafted film that you can watch repeatedly and still continue to find things out about it that you love, this is one you'll enjoy immensely.

Start with the script - it is filled with tasty classic lines you'll really delight in hearing in the context of the film. "Here's looking at you, Kid..." for example. Part of what makes all of it work is the vocal treatment by the actors in their delivery. The cast seems very comfortable with the characters they each play, and so maybe that relaxed feel carries over to the degree of realism you sense when you watch it. Their dialogue does NOT seem scripted and that's hard to achieve on a consistent basis in a film. I suppose that's a big part of what's made Casablanca such a classic to all who have reviewed the work over the years.

The acting is superb across the board regardless of how small the part. Ingrid Bergman is luminescent to put it mildly. Bogie is really a powerhouse in this one, and Paul Henreid as well as Claude Rains deliver the kind of intimately detailed performances that just make you smile while you watch. Peter Lorre has a smaller part but exquisitely crafted in its execution. He makes it easy for you to hate him, let's put it that way. Sydney Greenstreet gives a solid presentation as well to round out the core ensemble performances given here.

The special features on this disc include a very nice introduction by Lauren Bacall, Bogart's widow. I watched it AFTER viewing the film as I wanted to get the same feel as audiences who originally viewed it in the theater, but I wish I had watched it first. Enlightening to say the least.

Another little gem is a series of trailers for Bogie's other movies. Great slices of the period as far as movie promotion goes! They serve as great reminders of a simpler time in America.

This particular film is a MUST HAVE for anyone's movie collection. I feel that repeated viewings year on year will only make you love it more than you did the first time. Not many films are able to do that.

I can safely say that if you, too, love truly great movies and you decide to purchase this one, it will be the start of a beautiful friendship.