Ian Fleming readily admitted that he based the exploits of James Bond on the real-life Sidney Reilly, the Russian-born Cambridge-educated double agent who involved himself in many affairs of the crown during the reigns of Edward VII and George V. This beautifully produced miniseries details many of his exploits from roughly the beginning of Edward's reign through 1925, when Reilly was duped into traveling to Russia and captured by Stalin, who had him executed. The series is highly episodes, with minimal narration, and even if you've got a handle on the events of the Russo-Japanese War or the Great Game or the Red Terror, you might find yourself constantly checking historical sources to figure out what's what and who's who. Yet that still didn't seriously diminish from my enjoyment of this series. This miniseries was made during what might be called the Golden Age of British miniseries, in the early Eighties when television companies were awash with money and spent much more lavishly than they had even ten years prior: as a result, this series (like BRIDESHEAD REVISITED, THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN, and THE FLAME TREES OF THIKA) is incredibly handsomely mounted, with lavish costumes, hairstyling, props and locations. It seems like a documentary of another age (before there were color movie cameras), and captures the feel of the back alleys of Paris, the tea-rooms of St. Petersburg, the offices of Whitehall, and the shipyards of Germany at the turn of the century.

The darkly handsome and almost demonic looking Sam Neill was ideally cast as the manipulative womanizing Reilly; the series pulls no punches in showing how cold-hearted he could be, even to his own wives when they interfered with his work. There are many fine actors here who would become even more famous in the worlds of British theater, television, and stage present, including Bill Nighy as another and more vulnerable British agent, Lindsay Duncan in a fine turn as an amusing demimondaine called "The Plugger," and, in ridiculous makeup (perhaps the series's only production disappointment), David Suchet in a bizarre turn as a Chinese agent and Leo McKern as the munitions manufacturer and figure of intrigue Boris Zaharoff. (McKern seems to be wearing Orson Welles' awful putty nose from THE LONG HOT SUMMER--it keeps changing shape, and rarely matches his skin tones.) By far the best episodes of the series are numbers even and eight, when Reilly becomes involved in an elaborate plot in 1918 to depose the Bolsheviks and lead a new Russian government determined to re-involve the Russians in the World War; the conclusion of this two-parter, showing the final fate of several of the women who have worked with Reilly, is beautifully done and quite moving. The shows' creators mount a memorable credit sequence, involving a sad nostalgic kinestatis of images from the century's turn (a Romanov family portrait, the Manhattan skyline, Lenin speaking to the crowds) accompanied by Shostakovich's lush "Romance" movement of his violin suite for the film "The Gadfly" (based on a novel with a major character inspired by the actual Sidney Reilly).