MYSTERIOUS ISLAND, a great piece of popcorn cinema when first released in the early 60's, has stood the test of time as probably the purest and best example of the synergy between Visual Effects Animation God Ray Harryhausen and Composer Extraordinaire Bernard Herrmann. The story is set in an interesting period for sci-fi (the Civil War mid-1800's) and soon rockets from wartime prison escape to something new altogether, a castaway saga on a desolate island where the dangers are essentially way-larger-than-normal natural creatures -- no monsters -- just monstrous size. And all tweaked with a Jules Vernesian nod to Captain Nemo in the 3rd Act to essentially make it 20,000 Leagues Above The Sea, although there are numerous inventive scenes taking place below the water's surface, especially one with a huge and hungry Nautilus-like sea creature. Herbert Lom, as the civilization-weary, misunderstood genius Captain Nemo, kicks the movie up a notch upon his arrival. He ironically symbolizes the environmental movement years before it's arrival, which shows the truly inventive nature of the script. The cast are semi-recogizable character veterans from both sides of the Atlantic -- Michael ("Cat Ballou") Callan, Gary ("Mr.Bette Davis") Merrill and british thesp Joan Greenwood are the biggest "names" in the cast -- and all do their best to serve the story. The film is a showcase for the incredibly hard-working and iconic animation of Harryhausen, orchestrating a number of memorable set pieces involving a gigantic roc hatchling, who has to deal with murderous humans two seconds out of the egg; a crab the size of a Hummer Limo (actually bought at Harrod's Fish market); and a Buick-sized bee as the survival story of castaways from both a shipwreck and an off-course balloon find themselves on a volcanic island not found on any map...and a feeling things just aren't quite right in the neighborhood. By the time they are "allowed" to find Nemo, who's been helping them from afar and controls the place, the story is sufficient adventure and thrills for any programmer, but then is elevated by the Nemo tie-in, ending with an apocalyptic finish to keep you riveted in the fantasy wonder and action that makes this film a winner. Add a score that undoubtedly and arguably is Bernard Herrmann's best effort for the Harryhausen/Charles Scheer production team (others being the solid scores for SEVENTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD, THREE WORLDS OF GULLIVER AND JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS) and the film becomes ingrained in memory as a, and quite possibly "the", classic of the genre. Certainly worth a Sunday afternoon around the big screen. Heartily recommended for those who wish to see pre-CGI masters at work, when creatures were painstakingly moved a frame at a time to grant them life. No computers. Analog heaven. Quite a package.