It is the greatest, period.  Let's start by dispensing with criticism it is historically inaccurate.  This is about the legend of the Alamo. It is not a PBS documentary.  So as another reviewer has said, let's move on.  Now back to the Alamo.  Great stars (50s giants at the peak of their powers, Wayne, Widmark, Harvey, Boone), legendary film score by Tiomkin, superb acting and dialogue.  As the trailer used to say, "Four years in the making" and a cast of thousands.  Perfectly framed technicolor scenes.

What got me as a 4th grader in 1960, and many more times since then, were the heroic, perhaps over the top, last stands of the Alamo's big three:  Wayne's Davy run through by a bayonet yet summoning enough strength to torch the powder room and blow up half the Alamo.  Bowie, laid low by a cannonball, taking out fifteen attackers with his seven barrel shotgun, then two pistols, and then his meat cleaver-sized knife, yes, the "Bowie knife."  And Colonel Travis outfencing four attackers before one shoots him, but breaking his sword across his knee in a final act of defiance.  I think it is the Wayne's film's depiction of the line in the sand scene (although his version does not involve the drawing of a physical line) that sets it apart from other Alamo films.  Wayne's gets right what other Alamo films get wrong.  Others show the Alamo defenders shamed or bullied into staying after the news the Alamo is about to fall.  In the Wayne film, Travis tells his troops, "Go not with your heads hung low.  You are brave and noble soldiers."  In Wayne's version, whether they stay or flee will be totally left up to them.  Their decision to stay thus is clearly an act of courage.  Watching Bowie, crippled by a horse fall, get off of his horse and walk over (to, in effect, cross the line in the sand) as the first man to stand 'side Travis, a man Bowie had despised (at least in the movie), is one of the most dramatic scenes of all time.  It does not matter what version you see by the way: the DVD shows the cut version which deletes Tiomkin's legendary overture, intermission, entre'acte, and exit music and leaves out scenes such as Parsons's powerful death scene from the longer so-called road show version (which is shown on VHS and several times a year on cable's TCM or public television).  But the cut version does move faster and works better as an action film.  Both versions are five stars.  Now that the swirl of politics which prevented any rational evaluation of the film during Wayne's lifetime has passed, we can fully appreciate this cinematic achievement.  Enjoy the film's greatness for it will never be duplicated.  No?  Just ask the makers of the unfortunate Billy Bob Alamo remake.