This is the sequel to "Chinatown," perhaps the greatest modern example of film noir. Directed by Roman Polanski, the original resembled a great piece of nonfiction in movie format; it slowly and steadily unfurled until it came to its surprising conclusion - and when it was over, the audience had been educated and entertained all the while.

"Chinatown" was written by Robert Towne, who also wrote "The Two Jakes." Then, as now, Towne used the reliable devices of adultery and blackmail to peer into the unseemly world of L.A.'s  booming development in the 1930s. In the first film, the real treachery involved water. In this, the second film, it involves oil. The story is excellent in both cases.

Here, in a nutshell, is the problem: direction.

Direction is a tricky thing. Many great scripts have become confusing or ordinary in the hands of lesser auteurs. Towne was to direct this sequel; however, he was replaced by Nicholson. So this movie is Jack's baby.

Apparently, he must not have done the directorial thing before - I don't know. What I do know is that "The Two Jakes" is full of the most ham-handed work I have ever seen, in terms of setting up a scene, or condensing a dense plot into a flowing, digestible, unified piece of art.

The first half of the movie has each returning character from "Chinatown" paraded out in scenes full of lingering close-ups and shown chatting at length with only Jack, as if to say, "That Jake Gittes, he's up to something once again."

All of which is good if you are making A Movie Starring Robert Redford. But "Chinatown" succeeded largely because Polanski's direction never played up the celebrity of its stars. Nicholson, Dunaway, John Huston - whoever - the story was the most important thing. Scenes revealed just enough to keep you interested and involved. By comparison, "The Two Jakes" is flabby with takes of Jack front and center, doing nothing to advance the story.

The point is, the scenes with the Khan character, the Escobar character, the Dunaway flashback/monologue - all of these serve only to focus the attention back onto the male lead, the star, the director.

Now I am not saying this is a vanity piece. The writing, although muddled for the first hour or so, is very good. And the acting is solid. Special praise is due Harvey Keitel and Ruben Blades, two tough guys who nail their roles to a T. Meg Tilly does a good job, too. The last half of the movie proceeds much more assuredly, and the ending resolves iteself nicely.

There's a lot of merit in this project. I just wish it hadn't been tailored to make Jack Nicholson into the shining beacon, and to make the story, cast, and incredible scenery into the surrounding dark night. That was not how "Chinatown" became a classic.

As a Jack fan, I am ashamed to say this, but he should have left this baby alone. (And declined the pasta a few times, too).