I never watched any of the nWo stuff, but after seeing it in WWE, I knew I had to check out this DVD.
The stars on this DVD (Hogan and Hall) take an out of character look at what was possibly the most influential stable in wrestling history: the New World Order.
This DVD is spectacular, especially if you havent seen any pre-WWE nWo stuff, what it basically is, is an hour and a half biography which shows you a brief history of Hogan's WWF career, a pretty thorough look at Hall & Nash's pre-WCW days as Razor Ramon and Diesel, aswell as even some stuff on Shawn Michaels.
Then it gets into the begining of the Outsiders, even talking about the fan controversy surrounding them, and finally Hogan creating the nWo. It features clips from many great matches in the nWo history aswell as some of their promos, and even Paul Wright joining them. But then it fastforwards to 2001 with Flair joining WWF, and Mr. McMahon calling in the nWo four months later, and then shows various clips from their promos at no Way out 2002, and them attacking the Rock, and finally clips from Hall & Hogan's X8 matches.
But in the extras menu we got four macthes and two commercials:
WCW Bash At The Beach '96:
The Outsiders vs. Sting, Lex Luger, Arn Anderson and Ric Flair. - This was the famous match where Hogan made his turn and created the nWo, this chapter lasts for a 45 minutes and 20 of them are made up of Hogan's legendary heel-turn. While I found the match boring, the promo was good, but that you can watch on chapter 6 of the main feature on the DVD anyways.
WCW Fall Brawl War Games '96:
The nWo w/ fake Sting vs. real Sting, Lex Luger, Arn Anderson and Ric Flair. - This was a good solid entertaining match, although I found it strage that there's two rings in it. It actually seems like a Royal Rumble knock-off. But I still enjoyed it, even though one of the commentators has an annoying voice, and plus they kept babbling about the fake Sting storyline whih I know nothing about.
WCW Starrcade '98:
Kevin Nash vs. Goldberg; WCW World Heavyweight Title match - This was a great match, I highly recoomend it. This was the match that ended Goldberg's famous 173-0 streak. It was also more like the WCW that I remember (I started watching it in 1999).
nWo 4 Life WWF commercial.
nWo Poison WWF commercial.
WWF Raw (march 11, 2002):
This match was horrible, I don't even see why they included it on here. If they watched to have a great nWo/WWF match on here, include Hogan vs. The Rock at WM X8, not this crap, I didn't like it when I seen it on TV and I still don't.
Overall, this is a great DVD. The feature itself plus 4 matches (two of them being great) make it worthwhile. Although I was the feature had been longer and had talked more about the decline of nWo and the splitting of the nWo into differant groups, I still love it.
Here's hoping for a Hulkamania DVD.