Before we look at OKLAHOMA! let's have a look at Fox's track record for presenting vintage roadshow musicals on DVD...  the abysmal hack job Fox did on the STAR! DVD is well documented elsewhere... The star billing on the DOCTOR DOLITTLE DVD is a big enough mistake to make Mr. Harrison's estate remind Fox about his contract. The credit block on the the tacky cover of the HELLO, DOLLY! DVD claims the film was ..."produced BY Todd-AO."  Todd-AO is a 70mm widescreen film format, but some ignorant Foxer changed the credit from "Produced IN Todd-AO" because they were clueless, and an equally clueless Fox Homevid Exec approved it.

Obviously these people have NO clue about these older films, and that ignorance continued with the subesequent release of OKLAHOMA!.

This new set includes two featurettes explaining the virtues of the TODD-AO format, which debuted with OKLAHOMA!  But no one at Fox managed to connect the dots to realize that the 70mm TODD-AO version of OKLAHOMA! is the superior, preferred version of the film, and that the 35mm CinemaScope version is a lower quality second choice.

Originally TODD-AO was shot at 30 frames per second, while regular films run at 24fps.  Since most theatres wouldn't be able to install new equipment to show OKLAHOMA in 70mm at 30fps, OKLAHOMA! was shot in BOTH formats, releasing primarily in 70mm TODD-AO, then using the 35mm CinemaScope version for the cheaper sub-runs.  Therefore the 70mm TODD-AO version should be the featured version on DVD, given plenty of space on Disc One to showcase all the extra detail that 30fps 70mm contains.  The 35mm CinemaScope version should have been squeezed onto disc two as a supplement.

How do these people get their jobs and keep them after so many obvious snafus?  Did some kid at Fox think the Scope version was superior because it is "wider?" - not really true - the Todd-AO version is taller and has MORE picture info than the 35mm.  After OKLAHOMA! and AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS, TODD-AO began to shoot at 24 fps, allowing a 35mm scope version to be extracted by cropping off the top and bottom of the original picture.  So any film originating in 70mm is going to show less picture in the cropped 35mm scope version.  But how are the Children of the Fox to know this when they refuse to ask or listen to anyone who knows?

There aren't a lot of people on Fox Video's current payroll who really know much about these films,  There are numerous websites used by film buffs who know these movies, but the Fox Video dept. don't believe in consulting their audience.  They have the arrogance of ownership ("it's THEIR film") but they forget that they are asking for OUR money.  As one Fox Video Exec said "the fanatics will buy it anyway."

Warner Home Video actually employs at least one full time person who knows what he is doing with older films.  Fox does not.  Their catalog titles suffer as a result.  The only language they understand is dollars, but even if the badly produced titles don't sell, they aren't likely to connect the low sales to their own mistakes.

I cannot recommend that people support this shoddy product with their dollars, only to buy it again a couple years later when a newer version comes out.  I plan to rent the supplemental disc to watch the extras, and save my money until Fox hires people who know the product and do it right.  Not holding my breath, though.