I've heard that Harris wrote the novel with an eye towards this movie being made (someone else was going to tell the origin story if he didn't)...but the differences between the two are glaring. I made the rookie mistake of writing an extensive review of this film before viewing the last fifteen minutes (sorry); after watching the climax of the movie (and picking my jaw up off the floor) I decided to rewrite. Hannibal Lecter is (obviously) a very complex character, and regardless of whatever pressures Harris might have felt while writing the book, it was still a quality novel - it does a good job of fleshing out the title character's back story. I bought the DVD with my expectations properly adjusted - a two hour movie obviously cannot replicate all of the details, relationships, and careful narrative of a 323 page novel. That being said, there were moments in the film that completely flipped the book's story on it's head, ESPECIALLY near the end. Lines were added that were completely unnecessary, and radically altered the audience's perception of character motivations from what was laid down in the novel. Sigh. The liberties of film adaptation strike again.

Gong Li is stunningly beautiful, and does extremely well with a character whose depth and purpose has been criminally minimized (obviously not her fault)...Gaspard Ulliel is actually quite good as well (though his arrogance near the end is a bit over the top), but the material they've been given (or lack thereof) limits their impact. The movie is well made (edited, shot) and the scences and period details are great, but...this movie takes a great character study and disseminates it into a simple thriller. The text takes great care with the relationship between Hannibal and Lady Murasaki, letting it grow over time from a maternal protectorate of woman over boy to a respectful love between two adults. The film just throws a post-pubescent Hannibal into her presence and somehow expects us to believe that (TWO SCENES LATER) some kind of great connection grew between them...seemingly, FROM NOWHERE. This type of compression/simplification happens throughout. Regardless, I gave the film 3 stars in my initial review - it is well acted and nice to look at- but after watching the end (and the aforementioned story flipping moments) I feel compelled to reduce that to 2. In the end, I don't think this is a story that can be effectively told through film...there are too many subtleties present in the novel (that, in their entirety, do the complex character that is Hannibal Lecter the proper justice) to be conveyed in a single film (or even 2). The actors try, and are often good, but the script lets them down.

My final thought? If you love the series (and the Lecter character)...read the book. It's worth your time.