Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland starts off like sense and sensibility with a bunch of stuffy British elite playing match maker with Alice. The humor at first is subtle. Alice is proposed to by an oafish snob, she then excuses herself to think over a decision. During that time she runs off into the woods and falls down a hole. She is then transported into wonderland.  She meets all her old snarky friends that seem to have a bad attitude at first. I was thinking that her friends would turn on her but they stayed loyal to Alice throughout the movie. Throughout the movie all of the characters had  snarky one-liners and whimsical attitudes that gave the movie depth and vitality. The entire movie felt like a journey very similar to the Disney cartoon Alice in Wonderland and Return to Oz. There wasn't anything original in this movie. Tim Burton borrowed from the classics and created his own version. And I think he did a good job at it. The movie lost a little steam towards the end. Alice has a one on one predictable battle with a serpentine dragon. Christopher Lee provided the voice for the dragon and spoke half a line which was very disappointing. A legend like Christopher Lee deserves more than that. Then the giant battle sequence lasted for about 2 minutes before the dragon was beheaded. So don't expect a 30 minute epic battle like that in Lord of the Rings. Soon after that the obnoxious red queen was exiled out of the wonderland.

The majority of the time I couldn't understand what Johnny Depp was saying. His dialogue was muffled and riddled with obfuscation. Aside from prancing across a dinner table and helping Alice fly across a lake, he came out in three comical scenes. The first is when he was to be beheaded and he vanished into thin air to later be seen hiding behind the red queen's throne. The second scene is when Johnny Depp created an array of hats for the Queen's giant head, and third Johnny Depp did a silly and abrupt Michael Jackson-esque dance towards the end of the movie. Sadly, this movie ended abruptly and it could have used a few more plots and a better script. At times a few of the actors seemed bored with the uninspired script. The best characters were the caterpillar and the super-friendly Cheshire cat. Both characters had the best one-liners and the best special effects. The cinematography and special effects were colorful and brilliant throughout each scene. And the acting was mostly well-done despite issues with an uninspired script. Don't expect anything original because this movie is a blend of the Alice in wonderland cartoon and Return to Oz.