One of the joys of having neices and nephews is that you have a perfectly good excuse to indulge in the guilty pleasure of seeing those animated features which would otherwise cause those around you to smirk when they overhear the movie for which you are buying a ticket. "Hey! I got a kid here! Back off!"

Fortunately, this is a movie we waited to watch after it had come out on DVD. What were these guys thinking? "About as much sense as putting udders on a male cow (to borrow the previously mentioned anatomical oddity) would be the perfect summation of this movie.

I don't suppose that it should surprise me that this movie was co-produced by Nickelodeon. In both style and substance, this movie is a step below most of what passes for Saturday morning cartoons these days - it certinaly is not in the same league with any of the other movies that I have enjoyed while sitting back with the kids and a big box of popcorn.

This movie has none of the "gee whiz" animation or hilarious throwaway jokes to which I've been treated when escorting the neice and nephew to animated movies in the past. Forget comparisons to Disney, the Shrek movies or any of the Pixar classics. If one were to take Dreamworks merely average animated feature, "Madagascar," amd strip it of visual sheen and sparkle, as well as its imagination and artistry, and you might end up with this rather clunky movie in which the main character - purportedly a male cow - looks more like a robotic plastic bear with udders. (I won't even go into how the baby calf born at the end of hte movie looks like a pig.)

While this movie has more than a few amusing moments, those laughs don't make up for the embarressingly amateur storytelling. Any time the jokes stop in order to move along the narrative one has to wonder why they bothered. What a shame that the telents of Sam Elliott and Kevin James (who was so funny in "Hitch") should have been wasted in this bland and  predictable little movie.

I suppose that it can be described as "family fun," but I am not sure that sitting down for an evening of playing a board game with the kids might not be a lot better idea.