It's a challenge to add anything new to what's already been said about "Latter Days". By now everyone knows the basic storyline, so I'll comment instead on a few specific scenes in this film.

In my view, the first exchange that distinguishes "Latter Days" is the initial meeting between Elder Davis (Steve Sandvoss) and Lila (Jacqueline Bisset).  We discover Elder Davis is the only one of these four Mormon missionaries who is authentically Christian in his attitude toward his work. The other three are far more concerned with just going through the motions, getting back to Idaho and getting their girlfriends into bed than with disseminating any religious faith. Aaron, however, speaks from his heart instead of from a book to console Lila, and succeeds as a result. I thought this was a great and novel touch.

But by far, the scene that stuck with me the longest is the confrontation between Aaron and his mother Gladys (played by the wonderful Mary Kay Place). While this same parent-gay sibling exchange has been repeated a thousand times in other films, Aaron has a secret weapon in his arsenal. A simple question:

"What if it's not something I've done? What if it's who I am?"

In a single line of dialog, C. Jay Cox manages to expose "traditional" religious teachings against homosexuality for what it really is: evil and morally indefensible fraud. The disproven notions that sexual orientation in human beings is a choice, that homosexuality represents some kind of moral failing, that it can or should be surgically separated from the psyches of gay people ("Love the sinner but hate the sin", etc etc), with one unanswerable question these falsehoods are properly relegated to the status of mere bigotry based on ignorance and cultural conditioning.

Gladys has no response to Aaron's question except to slap him, because given an absence of emotional honesty, no other response is possible. In real life Aaron's question has been answered for the last 3000 years with stonings, lynchings and hangings. In some parts of the world it still is answered in these violent ways.

And finally, if the last ten minutes of this film doesn't move you to tears you're either officially dead inside or you have serious denial issues with your own sexual orientation. This is as romantic and touching as films ever get.

The director's commentary included on this DVD is way above average and includes lots of funny tidbits about the making of this film.  Sandvoss and Ramsey join C. Jay Cox to share their experiences and thoughts.