I first saw this movie in 1983 at a 'Who Film Festival'. To see it on the big screen was incredible. This film cemented in my mind, who was the best live band ever. Have been waiting for this DVD release patiently for a few years now. I am blown away by the special features that come with this movie (DTS surround, director commentary, Roger Daltrey interview, alternate camera angles, 5.1 mix of the studio version of "Who Are You", assorted featurettes). The producers of this DVD really did a great job with the mastering and packaging of this product. You WILL NOT be disappointed.
Reasons why you should buy this DVD:
1. You will not find a better live version of any of the songs in this movie, on any other Who release. Trust me, I own every Who release there is, and many bootlegs. 
2. Interviews with the band - Townshend and Keith Moon are in rare (not sober) form. These really show the four distinct personalities within the band. 
3. Rare performances from the very early years & television programs that have not been released on anything else.
4. The special features mentioned above. Check out the multi angle feature for "Baba O'Riley" and "Won't Get Fooled Again" - 4-6 camera angles are available on each, so you can watch any member of the band for the entirety of the songs. Also contains a feature to view/listen to the same two songs with John Entwistle's bass part on an isolated track. Besides being an interesting feature, imagine this would really appeal to somebody that has tried to learn his bass lines. 
5. The 'My Generation' opening on the Smothers Brothers show. If that kind of performance went down on Leno or Letterman today, it would probably result in authorities shutting down the show and some arrests being made.
6. Song selection - Live cuts from every Who studio album through Who Are You, except Quadrophenia. Plus some off cuts thrown in like 'Cobwebs and Strange', 'Success Story', 'Shout and Shimmy'.
7. The tour scene through John Entwistle's home, showing off his guitar collection and gold record skeet shooting ability.
8. Last live performances of Keith Moon before he died in 1978.
There may be other bands with better production in the studio, such as Led Zeppelin or the Rolling Stones, but this movie does a great job of showing you who the best live performance band is. Hands down it has to be The Who. Live performance was and is the Who's niche. Production can't hide what other bands are not capable of on stage.
If you need your live fix of Quadrophenia songs, I strongly recommend 'The Who: Live at Royal Albert Hall'. Townshend acoustic version of 'Drowned', Entwistle "BASS Cam" solo on '5:15' is a masterpiece.