In a room full of excited college students, the film began. An awesome screenshot, proudly displaying a quote from the chaos theory graces the screen as a small blue butterlfy appears and flies away. Kutcher appears, panting, disheveled. Dimly lighted with a tint of royal, the scene takes off in a fury with the beginnings of the wonderful soundtrack that the film proudly displays. 
But it is downhill from there...
And don't be fooled - the trailer is decieving. 
While I still maintain that the music saved the film (trust me, it was AMAZING), I almost felt like leaving. Not only were some of the most serious parts of the film laughable (and trust me, the room was laughing), but some parts were just darn lame. The dialogue was badly written, even if the script itself had potential. And that is the story of this film, uncarried out potential. The Chaos Theory and the Butterfly Effect (within the Chaos theory), which both state the if you change one thing, it changes everything, are both ambiguous and hardly discussable topics. It is no wonder that the film leaves the viewer with a yearning for something more. 
I have a severe problem with a previous reviewer's comparison to Memento and the Sixth Sense. If you have seen and liked Memento (one of the best films ever made, in my opinion), you will probably find the idea of The Butterfly Effect to be, at least, interesting. BUT, the two films are not even comparable. The Sixth Sense is also one of my favorite films. However, both Memento and The Sixth Sense have resolute, yet wonderfully ambiguous endings that will make you cringe and smile at the same time. The Butterfly Effect fails at this in all respects. It gets to the point where the viewer wonders how any ending could possibly save this movie. And the ending is as blase as one would think.
Now, I'm not saying that the film was horrible - it was just bad. The acting is mediocre (despite a few horrendous miscasts, including Kutcher's character's mother), and the characters that you feel the closest to are not even main characters. While I almost cried for Kailey's (Amy Smart) brother, I did not once feel compassion for Ashton Kutcher. 
But the idea was so wonderful! 
If you are intrigued by the premise, give this film a shot. Maybe it has something going for that I am just completely missing. However, don't expect too much. It's nothing more than a step in the right direction for Ashton Kutcher and nothing less than a somewhat intriguing B movie. Just have fun and take it for what it is.