The Good,the Bad, and Ugly is a movie that cares nothing for critics or popularatity. This movie is based around a wonderer and bountey hunter(The Good), a heart-less bounty hunter and murderer (The Bad), and a relentless and ruthless bandit(The Ugly).

  In this movie no character is good by any means; they are all bad just one has better manners. This movie is also very diffrent bacause no one speaks for much of it; however, relies on the music and facial expressions to set the tone. Might I add that this film has some of the best acting of any movie. Clint Eastwood accually has the weakest character and though is portrayed as the main character many times, he is not. Lee Van Clef play as Angel Eyes who will kill anything or anyone in his path and will sacrifice his own men for what he wants, his scenes are nothing short of awsome.  Eli Waltch steals the show as Tuco and it is very debatable that he is the main character. Every scene he is in explores how complexed he is and how close to insanity he lies. The part with his brother is particully memorable. When the movie gets going its none stop; with a perfect ballance of action and suspense. One will best the other one and then the other will better that one; which is unque in that no man is better then the others but who handles better in different situations. To the point it makes the amazing story real and fresh time after time. Make the back drop the Civil War.

  If your not into westerns don't be detured, this will refuse to disapoint. Imagin a film based around a muderer, a murderer, and a murdering theif; it is great like Pulp Fiction. It's in reality what Terantino looked at when directing. The formula is simular to pulp fiction in that no one is good and it ends with the climaxing scene. The ending scene is a climax that rivals any film. The only one that competes in my opinion is Casablanca. The music score is just simply beautiful,simply the best arond.

  The movie with the deleted scenes runs 3 hours, but time will fly bye like a 2 hours. By the end it will expand what stereo types are a western. Truely an astromicly incrediness film. One of three of my personally favorite movie of all time. Astounding.