Being one of the lucky few to see this film at the time of writing, I am excited for everyone who hasn't seen this. I'm happy that at last that you will be able to see this at home soon.

I can safely say that this film surpassed even my expectations (unsurprisingly high) and it did not disappoint. Given that this is David Hewlett's directing debut (no doubt under the watchful gaze of long time Yoda and chum, Vincenzo Natali among others)Hewlett exhibits a creative flair that marks this film out as distinctively his own. Natali et al were not the crutch for this project that I had feared. Newbie Hewlett seems to have successfully navigated what was probably a mêl&eacute;e of creative advice well.

David himself does not hide the fact that he has had to beg, borrow and steal resources to get this film made and producer (fianc&eacute;e) Jane Loughman has done a remarkable job bringing this film to fruition on such a tiny budget. What this man could do given bigger budget doesn't bare thinking about . He does seem to have wet the appetite of (DVD only) distributor MGM who have commissioned a pilot of 'starcrossed' (the spoof sci-fi featured in the film). Lets hope that this relationship continues.

Hewlett demonstrates a witty, style of expression and originality unusual for a first time director. An entertainment focused screenplay, it has no pretensions and does not take itself too seriously. It doesn't make too many demands on the audience but it doesn't require you to leave your brain at the door either, a perfect balance. The film is a real testament to the director's ingenuity and understanding of his medium. I would like to see him in the future try out some different genres. A Horror does seem to be in the pre-production stages (working title Design of the Dead).

I personally love extremity of character, and Hewlett's performance as the endearing Patrick demonstrated well paced comic timing and relished in the sort of classy but not too crude slapstick that Peter Sellers would have been proud of. Similarly Paul McGillion as Ryan plays well off of Hewlett. Cynics (who have not seen the movie!) may say that their on screen chemistry is already well known and pre-established outside of the film's parameters and that this assumption is a requirement to fully enjoy the film. I would answer by saying that this film dispells the myth that you would to have seen Stargate Atlantis to appreciate 'in jokes'. There simply aren't any. Where would we be if that same argument were levied at anyone 'writing and influenced by what they know'?. Many who have never heard the word Stargate have absolutely loved it.

I also wondered whether one of the more memorable scenes involving THAT dressing gown and McGillion, had been at all influenced by Cary Grant in 'Bringing up Baby';-)?

I hope this is the first rung on the long ladder of Hewlett's directing career with preferably Jane supporting the ladder;-)

yup, the boy done good!