This has to be my most favorite of the Evil Dead series.  Not because it's scary like the first movie, because it's incredibly funny.  I like "The Evil Dead", and I rate it as my most favorite scary films of all time, but "Army of Darkness" is the one I like the most.  We see our reluctant hero Ash (Bruce Campbell) being sucked into a vortex in the "Evil Dead: Dead By Dawn" and he lands in another time during the Middle ages.  Here the deadites are known through out the land where superstition runs rampant in the hearts of men and women.  Ash, is sent back in time as foretold in prophecy and recorded within the pages of The Necronimican, roughly translated, The Book of The Dead.  He is equipped with a chainsaw in place of his severed hand and is armed with his BOOM stick.  From here, the main story line of "The Army of Darkness" begins.  Upon his landing in the Middle Ages, the primitives, King Arthur's people, mistakens Ash as one of King Henry's men.  So they throw Ash in the pit of the dead where he battles two deadites.  Here we see for the first time the warrior Ash, as he emrges victorious against the evil deadites.  This is really different from the first movie where we see a cowardly Ash who is scared senseless.  Anyway, he frees King Henry and a few of his men who where captured and is hailed as the promised one as foretold in prophecy.  Ash, being the reluctant hero, just wants to go home, so he strikes a deal with the wisemen and sets off on a journey to a cemetary to find the Necronomican, the book that contains the passages to get him back to his own time.  During the first part of his journey, we see the deadites lurking about in the woods reminiscent of the first two films.  He also battles little evil Ashes and a full grown evil Ash when he grows out of good Ash's body.  This is really funny stuff.  Anyway, he finally arrives at the cemetary where he has to choose between 3 Necronomicans.  Let's say he didn't choose wisely.  When he finally grabs the right book, he awakens the army of darkness because he didn't say the verse, the passage from The Necronomican which keeps the dead... dead, exactly right.  He then has to battle the army of darkness, protect the book from the evil Ash which led the army of darkness, and save the girl from the baddies.  There are two endings to this film.  I personally like the S-mart ending better than the awakening in the post Nuclear holocaust future.  I have copies of both endings, but the S-mart ending is my favorite one.  It also sets up the story for the "Evil Dead: Hail To The King" video game.  I recommend this film for anyone who wants a good laugh with elements of horror.  "Hail to the king baby."