I have been a wrestling fan since 1996 and have watched all kinds of wrestling. I have a wrestling DVD/VHS collection spanning over 50 all together. This is the most complete and accurate review of this DVD you will find. I hope you find this review helpful; remember to vote helpful or not helpful. (Note-Each DVD I review has a "Match of the DVD" award somewhere in it.)

The Monday Night War
WCW Monday Nitro VS WWF Raw, the greatest battle of all time wasn't fought in the ring but between those two franchises over ratings. This DVD shows the history of The Monday Night War accurately, yet somewhat it is somewhat biased considering WWE made it. WCW was a company that got over by using controversy and shock to steal the audience away from the long-standing empire known as WWF, now known as WWE. This DVD tells about the History of WWE and WCW before fighting on Monday Nights. They go into how WCW stole talent from WWF like Lex Luger, Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, and so on. It tells the roots of the nWo idea and how it put WCW in the lead. The Mexican and Japanese stars coming to America to work for WCW is explained. The struggles of WWF to stay alive, and how they used Austin, Jerry Springer-like segments, and new stars to elevate them back to the top. Various superstars tell all that went on during this amazing time. Chris Jericho, Vince McMahon, Eric Bischoff, Big Show, Gerald Brisco, and many others tell this incredible story. In the end, WCW lost this war, but the fans won.

This DVD is an hour long and is one of WWE's best works. It's one of the DVDs you have to own if you are a wrestling fan. It may be bias, but it was fairly accurate. It isn't 5 stars because of the bias and it doesn't go too deep on the details. I still suggest this to anyone.

Extras Include-
Stone Cold Steve Austin & Shawn Michaels VS British Bulldog & Owen Hart (RAW)
Stone Cold Steve Austin Stuns Mr. McMahon (RAW)
Jim Cornette Commentary
Vince McMahon Interview- "Bret Screwed Bret"
Shawn Michaels & Triple H VS The Legion of Doom (RAW)
D-X Invades WCW
The Last Nitro (Clips of WCW's final show)
nWo in the Production Truck (Nitro)
Eric Bischoff Challenges Vince McMahon
Chris Benoit VS Booker T (Nitro)
Goldberg VS Hulk Hogan (WCW Title, Nitro)
Ric Flair returns to WCW (Nitro)
Rick Rude Appears on Nitro and Raw on the same night