This video set provides a lot of historical perspective on the strange life of Leonardo da Vinci who was without question one of the weirdest people who ever lived.

It's difficult to really compare him to anyone else such as other people who are generally considered geniuses today.  He seemed to be someone who was good at many things but only wanted to do things that he was interested in and he often left things unfinished.

What was unique about da Vinci was the combination of artistic and scientific interests.  He seemed to have basically unlimited energy and curiousity.

Leonardo was in some ways very fortunate because he was held in the very highest esteem by some rich people.  The king of France treated him almost like royality.  Here's a guy who would think nothing of sending thousands of soldiers into a human meat grinder but yet he felt that Leonardo was one of the greatest men that ever lived.

Leonardo was treated very well by the standards of the day and he always seemed to have money.  A lot of these guys he worked for were killers including the guy he put on all those pagents for.  That was also the guy who's young ambitious wife died as fate eventually always returns sadness to the cruel and greedy.

Leonardo had his hard times also and really never had a home until old age.  I think he had a hard time fitting his intense interests into the primitive social structure of the times.

Were he alive today da Vinci would most likely be a surgeon or scientist or at least he would try to become these things.

Leonardo came close to being burned at the stake for something he would say and get involved in some 500 years in the future.  Something that exists outside of time.

But fortunately he is remembered for his great spiritual paitings, especially The Last Supper which miraculously has somehow survived after beginning to deteriorate soon after it was finished due to using the wrong types of paiting methods.

He tried to create a gigantic oil painting on a wall and he treated the wall like a gigantic canvas.

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0865163480">Plato: Apology</a>