Let me say first that I liked the first movie in a campy, silly sort of way, the same way I liked "Night of the Creeps" (famous for the line, "Is this a homicide or a bad B-movie?")
Second, let me say that I like the actors. I mean, Kirk Cameron's been miscast and his character badly re-written from the books (he's a print journalist, not a tv journalist. Oh: and by the way, live shots take WORK! You don't just turn on a camera and start beaming to the whole world without telling anyone at the office you're about to break into regular programming)! But Kirk is a trooper and does a good job. Clarence Gilyard and Gordon Currie, the best actors of the original movie, are pretty much wasted in this one (although Currie, as Nicolae Carpathia, gets the best special effect). Brad Johnson comes across as the most genuine of the bunch, and Janaya Stephens' character is a vast improvement over the original movie (which was not a bad jumping off point for her).
So the actors did okay given what they had to work with.
My problem with the movie is that they were working with GARBAGE! The writing in the book is bad enough without being given the Cloud Ten treatment. Bleagh.
Let's see, I'm going to take a trip to see a potential girlfriend, but first, I need to take a detour because the anti-Christ is on my roof and wants to talk to me!
I have to show my ID to a security guard, even though he and I are on a first name basis!
I thought the anti-Christ was the Messiah, but a couple of homicidal "witnesses" spouting a few verses from the New Testament convinced me to consider Jesus instead.
I just recently became a devout Christian, but I've got no problem inviting a woman AND HER FIANCE to stay in my apartment.
Sigh.
Not to mention that characters are supposed to meet, but don't; characters are supposed to marry, but don't; characters are supposed to die, but don't.
And by the way, this criticism really belongs to the book, but how CHEESY is "tribulation force" as a name, anyway? No self-respecting group of Christians would call themselves that. As if four schmoes from Chicago are going to isolate themselves from their church and give themselves such a "cool" name based on... based on what, exactly? Cheesy and stupid. They're a circle of friends. Not to be cliche about it, but they are a fellowship. They are not a "tribulation force." That's stupid and self-important and detracts so much from what should be the characters' appreciation for God in Christ.
The first movie was campy fun, an evangelical tool that works well as a conversation piece and little else. This movie was just bad. An earlier writer noted that they did a better job of presenting a Christian message, and I'll agree. They did get that right, relatively speaking. But at what cost? Bleagh. That's all I can say. Bleagh.