Of all the biggest blockbusters of all time both of epic and huge box-office revenues, I believe that The Ten Commandments
would rank as the best ever.  Forget Gone With the Wind, Ben-Hur or Sparticus, The Ten Commandments takes the final bow.  My point
being that this remarkable epic, and definitely DeMille's best, has all the contents of a best picture.  Moses being a Hebrew and adopted by an Egyptian to learning of his true origin and accepting it, to being cast out by Ramses to finding his creator on a mountain top and ultimately being commissioned by God to lead
his people out of bondage.  Now that is a story that no screenwriter could ever think up.  The visual effects are another plus, considering that this is 1956 I think that they are
top notch.  But the visual effects are not the reason why I love this film, it's basically the relationship between Moses and Ramses.  I mean seeing Charlton Heston and Yul Brenner act together in the same film is an aweson sight!  The only downfall I think in the film is the way the film was shot.  I believe that if Cecil DeMille had shot the film at a much wider widescreen aspect ratio it would have been better visually.  The film was shot with a widescreen aspect ratio of about 1.78:1; I think that it would have been better at 2.35:1 or even at 2.75:1.  I mean the cinematography, the visual effects, the art direction and the sets would have been more revealed and beautiful at a wider view.  I love widescreen and the wider the better, the 1.78:1 and 1.85:1 transfers are a joke!  Directors should always shoot with 2.35:1 or 2.75:1 aspect ratios.  The one pivotal part in The Ten Commandments is when Moses (Charlton Heston) comes down from Mt. Sinai after seeing just a mere glimpse of God's presence and the way that Heston acts is just phenomenal-it's like Heston actually saw God.  Heston should have won the Best Actor Oscar, instead of Brenner for The King and I, that year!
And in my opinion it should have the Oscar for Best Picture as well because it told a better story, one that actually happened.  Around the World in 80 Days was the biggest joke to win over The Ten Commandments that year, since Shakespeare in Love won over Saving Private Ryan!