I thought everything was handled with incredible comedic timing.  The first half of the movie the audience was laughing about every 20 seconds.  Jim Carrey did a fantastic job and played his role differently (but still very funny) than in movies such as The Mask, Ace Venturas, Liar Liar, Me Myself and Irene, Dumb and Dumber, Truman Show, and Batman.  His facial expressions were perfect.  Jennifer Aniston was great, and so was Morgan Freeman.  There were a few more serious moments partway through the film, but with quick "recoveries".  And yet, I believe, the serious moments were written extremely well.
So on to who wouldn't like this film and who would, based on approaches to faith in God.  If you do believe in a God, and try to conform to what you believe that God wants from you, you may or may not like this movie.  It shows God in a way I know I hope God would be - very compassionate and good-humored, but some might be upset by the portrayal of limited power (not just free will, but being overwhelmed by prayers).  Some might not like that God would give his powers to someone who used those powers at times to beat up bad guys and glance up skirts once (could have been worse, though - absolute power is supposed to corrupt absolutely and Bruce was selfish but somewhat reasonable).  If you don't believe in a God, I think the humor of the film and the magical "what if" will be most enjoyable.  If you subconsciously or consciously do believe in a God but are not doing what you think that God requires, part of this film may be unpleasant for you.
I'm glad Jennifer Aniston and Jim Carrey didn't get very physical.  They were believable as a couple, but not too physical.  I thought the movie was sweetly romantic even without physical involvement.  Better that way.  I'd like to see Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston stay happily married, so kudos to everybody who came up with the physical limit.  Jennifer was wonderful and very pretty too!
This is funnier than Liar Liar and Patch Adams, which were also directed by the same director.  Everybody was perfectly cast.  I now can't wait for the DVD!