My review is directed towards those of you who have already seen the EDITED version of this film because I am more interested in informing you about this particular version rather than summarizing this wonderful story itself. If have not seen "Malena", the only review you need is "SEE IT".

First off, "Malena" is my favorite monica Bellucci film (and I have many of them as far back as "La Riffa", "The "Apartment" and "How Much Do You Love Me?". Admittedly, I got a late start on Monica Bellucci as "Malena" was the first film I saw of hers, although a pretty good jump start to the rest of America considering her films were unheard of in America before this film. But it's also a wonderful, wonderful film that is funny, sweet, touching, hurtful, heartwarming and just enjoyable to watch.

Now with the newly released uncut version, there are pros and cons. For those of you who have seen the film and love it, you MUST get the uncut version. There are many extended scenes and LOTS and LOTS of added scenes - 16 minutes worth! Many of these scenes enhance the storytelling in the desires and dream sequences that Renato has for Malena, thus most of these are of Monica Bellucci nude including many scenes of her topless, Renato rescuing her, fantasizing about her, Malena washing her breasts and even an extension on an existing scene where Renato imagines Malena coming into his room (the theatrical release has her walking up to him and the scene ends). In the uncut version, the scene continues beginning with what I thought was great detail as Renato slides up her skirt to reveal her garter strap (you remember when the boys were follwinng her around the village and there's a camera shot of her garter clasp through her silk skirt...that is a very sexy scene). Renato proceeds to undress her until Malena is totally nude from the front and side. Renato kneels down so he is eye level with her vagina, which you do not see as it is a side view, but it is a close-up of her pubic hair.

All of these scenes are tasteful and in context and consistent with the film. They NEVER should have been taken out. This is a beautiful film and a beautiful story and all these 16 MINUTES of deleted and extended scenes were actually the original version of the film and were later HEAVILY edited for American release. Again, these scenes are very tasteful scenes. I think the only reason they were cut for America is because of the young age of the Renato character being in direct contact with a nude, adult woman (especially one like Monica Bellucci...lucky, little bastard).

The ONLY problem I have with this film are he subtitles (what's with these Korean only releases of Monica Bellucci films anyway?). Make sure you press your "subtitle" button on your remote to access English subtitles. The problem with the subtitles, and it's only a few instances, is that a few scenes (that were in the theatrical release) are missing the subtitles (ex: when Renato is first masturbating in his bed and the squeaking of the bed springs wakes up his father and his father screams, "you're going to go blind!" - the subtitles are absent.). This is the case in a few scenes. Also, some of the subtitles come in too early or are not complete. For example, when Malena's father gets the note from the school headmaster in the middle of class regarding what's been going on with Malena and the student next to him reads it out loud to the class over his shoulder (Malena's father is mostly deaf), not all of the letter is in the subtitles as it is in the theatrical release. Also, at the funeral scene when people are offering their condolences to Malena, the man who sells her food reminds her that his "offer still stands", but if you hadn't seen the theatrical release and knew that, you wouldn't because the subtitle comes in several seconds before with a different character. If I was seeing this film for the first time, I would miss a few things here and there because of the subtitles, so if you are showing it to someone for the first time, you may want to fill them in on a few scenes. Otherwise, I'll never watch the theatrical release again as there is SO MUCH missing from it.

Lovers of this film will be quite pleasantly pleased with the added material that should never have been deleted in the first place.

VIVA MALENA!

- Tuma
Jacksonville, FL