Kill Bill is a film that most either love or hate .....there's very few average reviews, but whether for better or worse, most will probably agree that Kill Bill is not an average movie, and un utterly unforgettable one at that.

It's important to know how important it is to see Volume 1 before seeing this one.  Several critics have noted that Kill Bill Volume 2 can be enjoyed without seeing Vol. 1, as you need little to no background information to understand what's going on in the second installment.  Regardless, Volume 2 is infinitely more enjoyable upon seeing the first part, and you will have a much deeper appreciation for both parts.

Now when I originally saw Vol. 2, I was initially disappointed.  I felt cheated, as if Tarantino owed me a grander, more violent ending to the saga.  I felt so horrible, because my anticipation for the movie was so high.  I wasn't more excited to finally see the end of the Bride's adventure, but when it was over, I craved much more.

However, there was a great deal I enjoyed about the film.  The opening two minutes of the film instantly had me smiling at the familiar sounds from Vol. 1's introduction, and the music and performance from Uma (``And when I arrive at my destination ....I am gonna kill Bill'') couldn't have had me more excited.  The two minute black-out as the camera lingers inside the Brides coffin as she's buried alive was very clever; it could have become a tedious, boring scene very quickly, but Uma Thurman's tremendous acting kept me on edge.  The entire Chapter dedicated to The Bride's training with Pai Mei was fantastic, and the fight scene between Elle and the Bride was spectacular, instantly becoming my favorite fight in either volumes.

As the movie progressed, I couldn't wait until the Bride came face to face with Bill himself.  Specifically, I couldn't wait until the big, final fight.  But first things first: She had to first come face to face with her daughter, who Bill had been raising for four years.  Now the fact that her daughter (named B.B.) is still alive isn't a big revelation for the audience (well, at least the audience members who have seen Vol. 1), but the Bride is shocked and immediately more at peace.  She realizes that she doesn't have to wage revenge on Bill anymore for the sake of her dead daughter.  For the first time in both volumes, you see the Bride happy.  Still though, it's obvious that she hasn't traveled so far just to let Bill off the hook; they still have unfinished business.

So after Bill explains his actions and we finally understand exactly why the Deadly Vipers slaughtered the Bride's wedding party, the Bride leans forward to him, whispering, ``You and I have unfinished business''.  ``Baby,'' he replies, ``You ain't kiddin'''.  And then WHAM! The final fight to the death begins, and if the title of the movie is any indication, we know exactly who is going to be victorious.  But just as a smile crossed my face as I realized the final fight, which I had waited so long for, was underway .....it was over.  It began, and then it just .....ended.  I couldn't believe it!

Not long after Bill had fallen to the ground dead, the movie was over, but I was still too angry by the final death to appreciate the ending.

So why the five star review??

The movie is probably nothing like one would expect after seeing the first volume.  It's totally of the same piece as Volume 1, but at the same time, it is completely different.  While many didn't appreciate the dialogue being sacrificed for the gore and violence in the first volume (I did), as many people are not happy with Volume 2 because there is too much dialogue and not enough action.  For some reason, many just can't accept a movie where the dialogue can move the story forward as well as mindless action.  Some just don't have attention span for that sort of film, but let me assure anyone who is in doubt: Quentin Tarantino is probably the only director today who could make this kind of slow-paced movie work.  Regardless, the point is, it DOES work.

But what about the final fight with Bill? Didn't I just finish saying that it was a horribly disappointing ending? Well, after seeing the film once, I thought about it for a really long time.  Then I realized something: Tarantino was right.  I tried to think of any other way Bill could have died, and I knew that there was no alternate way that would work.  The Bride came to feel different about Bill by the end of the journey, especially after seeing Bill's beautiful relationship with B.B.  We as an audience see the more human side of Bill, and it would have been unfair, disturbing even, to see him slaughtered in a bloody, gritty fight as the other DiVAS members were.  Besides, throughout the span of both films, Bill was talked about as if he was the most fierce, dangerous man with a samurai sword, period.  If The Bride had had a long, drawn-out sword fight with Bill, he would have had to kill her; The Bride wouldn't stand a chance against him.  So for her to kill him in a tasteful, believable manner, it had to be short and sweet.  Suddenly, the movie's ending made so much more sense to me.

The point is, the movie might take more than one viewing to fully appreciate it.  I can say, at least for me, that the film certainly grows in stature after repeated viewings.  The first time I saw Volume 2 I thought it was a great effort from Tarantino, but the unexpected, abrupt ending cast a dark shadow over an otherwise extraordinary film.  You might just realize eventually, though, that just because Vol. 2 isn't exactly what you expect based on the action-packed first volume, that isn't necessarily a bad thing.  What you will find is a beautiful, story-driven adventure with dynamic, real characters.  It's a character study; a love story written in blood.  And it is spectacular.

And all this praise is coming from someone who was never a fan of samurai movies, despises most all anime, and finds old spaghetti westerns pretty corny.  Honestly, it's amazing how Quentin Tarantino can take all these elements from past movie styles and genres, and make them a million times more cool and hip than the originals could have ever been.

Hand's down, the sum of both films together make this the best effort of Tarantino's (and Uma's) career.  Awesome movie, and highly recommended.