I bought this tape set after using the "old" Tae-Bo tapes for about a year. Since starting Tae-Bo, I've lost over 40 lbs and have a lot more energy.

The Beginner Tape explains all the moves - I highly recommend watching this first.

The Basic Tape is a great 30 minute workout, however there are a couple of minor goof ups: Billy seems to have trouble keeping the exercise counts consistent on each "side" when you're working out. In one spot, Billy starts a new movement before the complete 8-count from the previous move is completed (and his workout buddies in the background get confused). There is another point in the video where Billy tells you to work the "other side" but he promptly starts the exercise on the same side already done. And sometimes when switching to the "other leg" he doesn't do the exact same exercise after the switch. These problems are all minor, and I've come to anticipate them as I watch. Also, the Tae-Chi style cool-down session on the original Tae-bo tapes is better than the one on this tape. It's almost as if Billy runs out of time, and doesn't want to go over 30 minutes. This tape is ALL cardio. No floor work for legs, buns, or abs.

The Advanced Tape is truly for individuals with a high fitness level. Although I seem to find that the original Advanced Tae-Bo tape gets me breathing and sweating a little harder than this "Live" version. Still, this is a killer workout, and not for the timid. I use ankle and wrist weights when doing the Basic Tape, but this one is killer all on its own. The cardio portion is followed by a grueling floor portion for legs, buns, and abs - and you will be watching the clock praying for time to speed up. I keep the VCR display counter on the screen during this tape so I can keep an eye on how long the torture will last!

To be honest, I really don't use the 8-minute tape. I've watched it once, but 8 minutes of cardio, no matter how intense, is simply not enough to maintain a good fitness level. Sure - it's better than nothing, so if you're in a rush then pop this tape in. But you're better off committing to at least 30 minutes a day.

Minor problems aside, this is certainly a workout video worthy to be added to your collection. I suggest getting the original set (where Billy claims he will "make you a Conquerer!), as well as this "Live" set, so that you can keep variety in your training. I find myself using the Beginning and Advanced tapes from both sets on a regular basis.

I've enjoyed these tapes and the positive results!