I remember prowling Blockbuster with my sister and hearing her make a dismissive comment about this movie as we passed it by and feeling chastened that I had been (secretly) interested in it.

But after getting the book at the library and finding myself wary to continue after a few chapters in, I rented the film to "skip to the end" in a way.

I was very pleasantly surprised. The film is main-stream and commercial (what my sister dislikes), but it was also intelligent and complex. The acting was good all around, especially as an ensemble, but Emily Blunt (The Devil Wears Prada) stood out especially.  She stole the entire show as a tight-laced, high-school French teacher, aptly named Prudie.

I could write an entire essay on the genius of her performance, but I'll merely state that she deserved an Academy Award nomination, in my humble opinion. She was that good.

What was really interesting was seeing Austen's works through the perspective of the six different members of the books club:

Jocelyn, a middle-aged dog breeder and long time Austen fan, a spinster like the auther herself, jaded about love.

Bernadette, a sixty-something free spirit with a kindly personality, who's had many husbands, not jaded in the slightest.

Prudie, the afore-mentioned French teacher and Austen purist, in a crumbling marriage on the brink of an affair with a Willoughby-esque student.

Sylvia, desperately in love with her husband, who, after their 30+ year marriage, has just left her for another woman.

Allegra, Sylvia's beautiful, adrenaline chasing, lesbian daughter.

and Grigg, a thirty-ish man who enthusiastically loves science fiction and "genre" books, and who has never read a word of Austen in his life. He's kind and klutzy, but with a surprisingly solid backbone.

If you are hesitant to see this film because you can't stand to see the works of Austen sullied, don't fret! Her books are discussed respectfully, insightfully, and lovingly in the film. If you have never read a word of Austen in your life, you can follow the movie's story-line just fine, though it is better if you're at least a little familiar.