Superman II was definitely the best of the series.  It took what the original movie had already established and carried to a higher level.  There are many places on the net where you can read a detailed plot of the movie, so in short:  3 Kryptonian villians have escaped the Phantom Zone and are reeking havoc on earth and only Superman can come to the rescue.  Unfortunately though, in a matter of bad timing, Superman has confessed his love to Lois Lane and revealed his secret identity.  In the Fortress of Solitude, Superman is told "if you wish to live with a mortal, you must live AS one.  You shall lose your powers."  So Superman's powers are taken away and Clark becomes just an ordinary man just as the Phantom Zone villians are destroying the earth.  In the end, Clark gets his powers back and Superman of course saves the day.  In the end, a confused Lois is having a breakdown because she can't accept knowing that Clark and Superman are the same person.  Clark kisses Lois and somehow she forgets ever finding out his identity.
The movie is entertaining to everyone, whether you're a Superman fan or not.  This has action, special effects, romance, comedy, and more.  If you never buy the other movies in the series, get this one.  In my own opinion, it's far better than the original "Superman: The Movie".
The only bad things at all that I can say about this movie are plot gaps.  You'd have to see the movie to know what I'm talking about, but there are so many gaps in the plot like:  when Superman loses his powers in the fortress, he is told "it is permanent and you can never regain your powers", and yet somehow he finds a little green crystal later on and regains his powers without any explanation!  Also, Superman is given some new powers never seen before.  He rips the S off of his chest and throws it and it turns into a net of some kind.  The villians have powers never documented before.  And Clark possesses some sort of new super-kiss that makes Lois forget that Clark and Superman are the same person.  To make that more bizzare, in Superman IV there is a brief scene with Lois and Clark where she says something to the effect of "I know you're Superman, Clark" and he's like "how do you know" and she says "I remembered everything".  So he kisses her again, and again she forgets.  Also, when you watch this movie it makes the viewer believe that Superman has killed the phantom zone villians.  But in the old televised version from the 1980s, there is footage of the villians being arrested by Arctic police after the battle at the fortress.  This footage wasn't left in this video and it should have been because Superman never kills.
Other than a few slight flaws in the storyline, it's the greatest movie ever!  If you're a Superman fan, buy it!  If you're not a Superman fan, buy it anyway because it's worth every cent.  I only hope one day they restore this movie and add the deleted footage.