"The Best of Comics Unleashed with Byron Allen" is very comparable to its host Bryon:  pleasant and interesting, but I don't know if I could take him for longer than a 15-minute at a time.  Each program features a quartet of comics that vary with each show, with comics like Dennis Miller, David Brenner, Jon Lovitz, Brad Garrett, Kevin Pollak, Howie Mandel, etc., serving as the seasoned comics, and comics like Kim Coles, Harland Williams, Ralphie May, Ralph Ralph, etc., as newer comics.

The show "Comics Unleashed" is actually a 30-minute syndicated show broadcast over a wide variety of markets in the United States, and these segments are 15-minutes of the "best of" a 30-minute show.  The first two have a format in which Byron Allen comes out, does a short monologue, then introduces each comics, who then walks out on the stage.  During the first two shows we also had a comic performing a skit similar to Saturday Night Live's "Weekend Update."  From the third show onward, the intro of the comics is deleted, and we're introduced to them when they are already  in chairs in a set-up similar to most late night shows.  The skit isn't included in the ones past the second show, either.

Overall, the shows offer us Byron doing a very good Johnny Carson imitation in that he tries to keep the ball rolling and bring-out the best in each comic.  There is nothing special there as comics less famous tend to give us parts of their comic routines, thus use some proven material.  The more famous comics tend to recount daily funny instances that occur in their lives.

Overall, the show is four stars, except for those times when the comics get on a roll and they take over the show.  It is in those choice moments, and you get two with these DVDs, that you wish they didn't have to go to a commercial.

The DVD's have great quality and sound, and are enjoyable on ones stereo at home, but I had to deduct a star from my original four-star rating because of the lack of exclusiveness on these DVDs.  These 15-minutes shows are available as presented on the DVDs as they are on the show's website.  While the less than $12.00 cost is reasonable, we're not getting anything extra.  Also, the promised "Behind the Scenes of Comics Unleashed" was not on either of the two DVDs in my box, and the total time was more like 120 minutes rather than 176 minutes as stated on the box.

Do I think this is a good show?  Yes.  Would I buy this to watch?  I would if I really wanted to get a DVD to buy for the evening, and everything else I wanted was sold-out.