...perhaps Amazon should create a 6th star category for series like this one. Outstanding and it shows life as it is out here away from the developed world. In the third, sometimes fourth, world I live in it's all about survival and life can be too short for many people. Their daily existence sometimes depends on the kindness of others and usually what they can grow for themselves.

This series also shows what I see every day at it's most extreme and illustrates how in some parts of the world, humans still live in concert with nature. It goes on to warn us about what happens when that balance is upset and although well intentioned, development & 'progress' almost always affect traditional cultures in terrible ways. Over-population in the third world, the alarming deforestation across much of Africa, the pillaging of the resources, depletion of fish stocks, garbage, and the total lack of concern for nature in some parts of the world will eventually affect those who come after us.

And, the lack of respect by some important elected officials towards improving the environment is utterly depressing and will have hugely negative affects on countries around the world. If you think it's bad now just wait until 2025 when some of the most impoverished countries in the world will nearly double their populations from 2010 figures (for instance - some experts predict that one in four people in the world will be living on Africa continent by around 2050). Their much depleted natural resources are already in a negative decline and in some countries in Africa it will become even worse than it is today. For instance, in Ethiopia, by some estimates only three (3) percent of the trees that existed 35 years ago are still there. Entire hillsides have now been stripped of their foliage which has led to big problems with erosion, desertification, and etc. Meanwhile, unchecked population growth across the continent means that humans will take more and give back less (usually nothing) to replinish nature for the next generations.

So, I recommend that you watch this series to see where humankind currently is as it relates to managing its natural resources (a snap shot in time). Then, sit down with your grandchildren a decade, or two, from now and see if its gotten better or worse. I predict worse for the third world.