fried green tomatoes is absolutly without a shadow of doubt the BEST movie ever made.  every line in this movie is memorable.  wether it be humorous "did you know they took my gallbadder out!" ninny says like any old woman who nobody talks to.  thats the first thing she ever says to evilyn couch.  to "mama always said there was a seperate god for children"...  or even the much shorter and repeated "tawanda"..  this movie is not to be missed.  and you will NEVER forget it.  its a movie for everyone.  (except maybe a clansman &lt;remembering frank>)  this movie is beautiful,tear jerking,  witty, inteligent, and downright funny.  wether your a rebellious teenager or a 67 year old woman or man, i dont care who you are, this movie is for you..  for any mood your in its the right mood to watch friend green tomatoes...  i guarentee you will love it...  though of course if your the mother of a small child you might wanna hold your hands over your kids ears during the trial scene where idgie starts off saying "thats right you &lt;a bunch of words that would be quickly censored off this sight>...".  its the story of 3 people.  as its shown directly its of 4 but its known that idgie is actually ms ninny threadgood though evilyn begins to realise it ninny never offers to say it either..  but its the story of an overweight housewife with a low self esteem and how hearing a old woman from a nursing homes story about the life of 2 young rebels from alabama.  its not a depressing movie.  its too funny to be though it is sad from start to finish but they have a humor about things that makes you laugh reguardless...  you go through murer trials with them,  wife beatings, poker games, getting drunk at the local honkey tonk, playing baseball drunk on whiskey, train hopping, and just about everything imaginable as well as a love between two best friends...
it starts out with idgie as a little girl and her brother buddy, though buddy is only in the movie for one or 2 quick scenes, he is a strong character in the movie because it is about what came after his death and how he was idgies mentor, brother, and basically she becomes a female buddy as she grows up, also taking on his biggest trait, she became a compulsive liar...  she hated ruth because ruth was buddy's love and idgie wanted buddy all to herself and it takes almost a decade for her to even talk to her but what unfolds is a story of love and friendship that cant be broken.
if you havent seen this movie you need to...  its worth whatever you have to pay for it..  -Lacy Thomas