I have to admit that I was never much of a Leonardo DiCaprio fan and I had even written Kate Winslet off as a 'flash in the pan' when she co-starred with him in Titanic. Two Academy Awards and some amazing performances by Kate and equally terrific roles by Leo changed my mind. So, I decided to give Revolutionary Road a look, first on HBO.  I was absolutely mesmerized, but I did have negative feelings about the conclusion of the story.. you see I alllowed my conventional taste for cinema to overrule my better judgment in a way.  This happens all the time with the public and Hollywood films, and is why so few movies that challenge, trouble, or stir us are ever produced.

I was haunted by what I saw, and decided to watch a second time.  This time, I focused on the superb acting ao ably captured by the Director, Sam Mendes ('American Beauty' Director and the soon-to-be-former-'Mr. Kate Winslet'). I noticed faces, expressions, emotion; all real, gritty, searing, heart-rending.  The viewer's desire for plot conclusions is thwarted continually, yet the viewer's thirst for challenging material is quenched minute by minute.

Gone, is the 'pretty boy' DiCaprio of 'Titanic.'  In his place is the polished, slightly weathered, infinitely deeper actor who fits easily and convincingly into complex adult roles; and there are few more so than Frank Wheeler in this film.  Wheeler is a 1950's post Depression dreamer-turned WWII soldier-turned reluctant New York businessman paired with a die-hard idealist wife named April (Winslet).  Marital conflict is frequent and intense in the Wheeler marriage as Frank, some will argue, 'grows up' and accepts a successful career and life and friends in suburban Connecticut, while April refuses to really 'let go' of the dreams she once shared with Frank.

Prepare yourself for tension, conflict and surprise dramatic developments.  Also, I must mention Milly, unbelievably well-portrayed by actress Kathryn Hahn.  Keep your eyes on her face about halfway through the film in a key scenewhere the Wheelers spend an evening at their neighbor's home and reveal their rather unconventional future plans.  I'll never forget Hahn in that scene.

* * * * out of * * * *  -from one who has given that rating no more than 10 times, ever..