Phillip K. Dick's works are notoriously difficult to bring to the screen; think back to all the controversy surrounding "Blade Runner". Even "Minority Report" required some of the best minds of our time just to get some ideas up on the screen. But once they are there, you can be sure that a memorable movie ensues.
Arnold doesn't disappoint, and neither does respectable director Paul Verhoeven ("Robocop", "Starship Troopers", whoops - "Showgirls") in this 1990 hit. Schwarzenegger is at the top of his game - within the ten-year period from 1984-1994, every film he touched turned to solid gold. He's good here as a confused, betrayed Douglas Quaid, possibly stuck in a dream or reprogrammed into a spy's head or the victim of a mind trip gone haywire. Actually, the four screenwriters, two of which wrote the superior "Alien", never do adequately explain Quaid's predicament, but the viewer is so caught up in his x-ray smashing, blade-running (the comparisons are inevitable) character that not much else matters.
Quaid is an earthling who, while he has a beautiful wife and a lovely job on his home planet, can't help but wonder what life might be like on the now-inhabitable Mars. But instead of visiting the dangerous planet, he visits Rekall, Inc., and the company sends him on a mind trip to Mars. Or do they? The film travels from the ultraviolent (re: Sharon Stone) to the downright bizarre (Martian deformations). Ronny Cox is good as a baddie, and Arnold seems to be enjoying himself. Though the trippy holograms and alien structures and shootouts are fun, the film amounts to relatively little except for a good time. It should have stuck closer to Dick's original plans, but who's complaining?
The DVD makes up for most of the movie's deficits, thankfully - a rare commentary track from Ahnold and Verhoeven provide nice insights (if you can get over the accents) and the featurettes are pretty cool. I love the evolution of the "Total Recall" trailers, nicely charted here. Overall, a well-stocked DVD and a movie well worth seeing. Ahhh, the good old days, when Arnold could be counted on for a good time...