1968 would happen to be a year when social stigmas were at a high and everyone was looking for an escape, either through mind-altering drugs or at the local cineplex.  George A. Romero and a band of friends in and around Pennsylvania happened to have the perfect escape.  From the opening credits to the final onslaught by the living dead on a small farmhouse inhabited by a colorful array of characters, "Night of the Living Dead" takes the viewer on a trip through fear and hidden social agendas.  
In 1968, films were afraid to depict the horrors that graced the screne in Romero's film.  And with the added effect of shooting on black and white film stock, it was a ground-breaking venture which opened the floodgates for future shockers in a similar vein.
Many watch "Night of the Living Dead" as a film about a group of people trapped in a house, being terrorized by the walking dead.  But Romero had to add his own touch.  By analyzing the film, one can see the numerous social situations Romero put his characters in, dealing with racial tension, designation of individual class structure and the fear of war.  To some, "Night" is a simple film, while to others, like myself, it is a work of art, depicting the fears of the world as seen by Romero himself.
In 1993, I had the opportunity to attend the 25th Anniversary of "Night of the Living Dead" at the Pittsburgh Expomart.  The whole cast was present, except for the late great Duane Jones.  For three days, I chatted with..., watched previews with..., and even took a cruise on the river with the cast and crew of "Night".  I don't know who was more surprised by the turnout at the convention; myself or those who worked on the film.  While talking to Marilyn Eastman, she stated that she was surprised to see the number of people who their small, independent film had touched.  Karl Hardman added that it was nice to be able to give something to the film world in the form of "Night of the Living Dead".
Through all of the work that Romero has done, one can look on "Night of the Living Dead" as a masterpiece in the realm of cinema.  It goes beyond the realm of horror and touches in the realm of art.  How many more films can one look at and see the influence it has had on others.  
All in all, Romero and his crew deserve the credit and recognition as filmmakers...And beyond that, as artists.