The wait was quite long for the remaining 3 remastered Leone movies. These DVDs had been out in the UK/Region 2 for since 18 April 2005, 2+ years (5 June 2007.)

  Duck You Sucker is the least of the Once Upon A Time films but is still great. The title is not American parlance but it doesn't matter. I am glad to finally be able to see it. I love the actors: Rod Steiger and James Coburn. I think both are under appreciated. Memorable scenes include the faces montage on the stage coach, the scene in the bank basement, the massacre in the trenches, the communist book getting run over, and my favorite is the betrayal in the rain scene and how the wiper blade is going. The ending is great and reminds me somewhat of Frankenheimer's The Train. Great model work saves movie budgets and allow for that nice stagecoach and armored car. The Morricone score is great. The chorus sings "Juan, Juan, Juan" and the easier to understand, "Sean, Sean, Sean." Sir Christopher Frayling is wrong when he says that the lyrics are unintelligible. The extras are pretty good if less cohesive than other DVD supplements out there.

  This movie is a dress rehearsal for Once Upon A Time In America. The flashbacks get more numerous and more complex through the three films. The final flashback in this film seems quite risque and not at all how it stared out in the auto at the beginning. The early scene of implied sexuality with Steiger leaves some ambiguity about violence that is not there in Once Upon A Time In America. All the violence was ratcheted up and yet hung on a moving story. I would love to see the purported 6.5 hour cut of that movie.

  The picture is great on my 24" flat screen tube TV fed through component inputs and shown 4:9 letterbox.  The Lowry process has made them as new or maybe even better than when originally released (not alive when in initial release.) I hope a 16:9 progressive scan capable TV will make the image that much better. The sound is good. I do not have a 5.1 capable receiver, just as well with the new Blu-Ray audio options making older units closer to obsolescence. (I can't wait to listen to Leon: The Professional and Patriot Games among others in DTS someday and hope that Ronin and Braveheart will come out in DTS at some point.)

  The 2 disc white Amaray case with slipcase is much better than the bulky case that came with The Good, The Bad... in 2004. The only problem would be getting white replacement cases at a reasonable cost.

  If you have not seen Once Upon A Time In The West, get the 2 disc SE now, it is cheap to buy. The musical theme for Jill with Edda Dell'Orso's voice is angelic. The movie is Leone's best along with Once Upon A Time In America (which has some disturbing scenes of violence and vulgarity. It is not for children or gentle adults.)