I cannot praise this movie highly enough!  Directed by the always-brilliant and underrated William Wellman, who was always viewed as a sort of workmanlike journeyman director and not a "visionary," this film manages to say a great deal about American values and moral crises within the context of a deceptively simple tale.

Fonda returns to town with his pal, the always-rewarding Harry Morgan (remember Colonel potter in "Mash"?), having just discovered that his true love has jilted him for a San Francisco dandy.  In his anger and frustration, he initially takes part in a posse that takes off to punish a trio of men that are believed to be the murderers and robbers of beloved townsman Henry Kinkaid.

The tragedy that ensues is a stark drama of justice gone horrible wrong and trampled by mass hysteria and the kind of fear and accusations against the 'bad guys"--foreigners, strangers and the mentally ill---that are always fomented by the right wing.  What Wellman establishes so brilliantly is how a public event becomes a canvas upon which people often project their own psychological issues.

For example, the first time I saw this movie I thought that the scene in which Fonda's ex-girlfriend comes through the pass with her new fiance was totally superfluous.  It didn't seem to have much to do with the tale.  How wrong I was!  After multiple viewings, it became clear to me that it was Fonda's sexual humiliation at the hands of the woman that contributed to his desire to take part in the "macho" ritual of capturing and punishing "bad guys."  Wellman shows how many of the film's principals are using the "Oxbow Incident" to work out their own demons.  Tetley, for instance, seems to be obsessed with the concept of 'manhood" and every other word out of his mouth is an accusation against one of the other characters---particularly his own weakling son---that he is a "woman" or "not man enough."  Talk about issues!  Then there is the female member of the posse, striving to show that she can out-tough any man.

Fonda comes to realize that the bloodlust in the posse is folly and he bows out of it, realizing that he cannot salve the injustice he feels he has suffered by inflicting same on others.  The devastating outcome of the mob hysteria and rush to judgment that ensue, are a powerful and unforgettable lesson in the horrors of vigilantism.  Not to be missed!