Johnny and Barbra head through the country in route to the cemetery their departed father currently resides at. Though he may not remain dead much longer. George A. Romero's seminal cult classic starts off in a somber tone with an ominous title sequence culminating with his own credit superimposed opposite an American flag. Ostensibly we're witness to a mundane annual trip to the gravesite of a half remembered pops. Johnny and Barbra are siblings, and the former preys on the latter's fear of her surroundings. "They're coming to get you, Barbra!" he insists. It's all in jest of course. Johnny means her no harm. As they depart, Johnny notices an intoxicated looking man lumbering about and exclaims, "Look! There's one now!". As the odd man comes closer he indeed does attack Barbra, and thus begins one of the genres most appealing outings.
  Johnny is quick to assist in repelling Barb's attacker, engaging in a fists to cuffs with the gaunt creature. Johnny falls, cracks his head against stone granite, and lies prostate. Barbra's on her own. She decides to make a run for the car, and upon securing herself inside, realizes she hasn't the keys. Oh dear. The odd man isn't so lumbering that it takes him very long to reach Barbra in her steel prison, and soon he's bludgeoning the car's window with a brick. Our protagonist isn't catatonic quite yet however (though she occupies most her later screen time in this state), and she has sense enough to release the emergency  break. As she coasts down the dirt road, the odd man staggers after her in a fevered pursuit. The car makes an impromptu stop at the base of a tree, and Barb makes another dash out in this evermore peculiar world. This time she makes it to a more fortified locale, a farmhouse.
  Once inside she makes an exploration of the premises. She discovers the phone is out and the owner(s) have a thing for taxidermy. Our heroine seems to be on the brink of a complete mental breakdown when Ben comes crashing in. Now about Ben, well, Ben's the man. He takes charge of the situation going immediately to work on further fortifying the farmhouse. He also relates to Barbra a rather strange occurrence concerning a group of  men, not dissimilar to Barbra's pursuer, who were terrorizing  people outside a diner. Barb's pretty out of it though, and begins to rave on about Johnny, and demands they go back to his rescue. Such a vehement frenzy she exudes that it behooves our hero Ben to smack her one for her own good.
  Later, they discover more people. There are the Coopers; Harry, Helen, and there young daughter who's received a nasty bite from one of the ghouls. Also a young couple; Tom and Judy. They've holed up down in the basement. When Ben asks Harry why he hadn't come up when he heard the screaming, he insists he was unsure if it was of any use. "For all we knew you could have been one of those things!", he exclaims. Tensions run high as Ben claims command of the upstairs and Harry the basement. Both men have good ideas, but refuse to work together. Ultimately, this lack of  cohesiveness will lead to their doom.
  Night of the Living Dead, much like it's two sequels, isn't so much about the zombies as it is about the relationships between people forced to band together. The farmhouse bunch form a sort of micro colony, and the actions of one effect the well being of them  all. It's also very much a product of it's time. Coming out in the same year that saw both the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr., and Robert Kennedy, and with the war raging on, the movie is certainly indicative of it`s time. It also owes a great deal to Richard Matheson's novel "I Am Legend", which also deals with society upheaval.
  Beyond that, and why it's truly so endearing, is it's great storytelling. The story unfolds slowly at first and then starts to rip along at a relentless pace. There are many scenes that induce audience participation. Rummaging the farmhouse for supplies, and waiting eagerly for the next T.V. or radio announcement. Then, contemplating the next move of action. The movie really has you becoming involved with the group. The horror elements are all there to, including one very grizzly scene involving a trowel. The films infamous final moments are indelible and certainly do much to solidify it's place in cinema history. Night of the Living Dead is really the beginning of a decade of genre classics. It's gorilla filmmaking style laid the tracks for such classics as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and it reminds us of a time when horror films were about a little more than just making you jump from your seat.