After Timothy Dalton's decision to abandon his role as James Bond after only two films, the series was left floundering. Legal issues dogged the production of a new film. Even worse, Bond's classic enemy, the U.S.S.R., collapsed under internal pressures. The promise at the end of Licence To Kill, "JAMES BOND WILL RETURN", was sounding emptier and emptier by the mid-1990s.

However, it came together. A suave Irishman by the name of Pierce Brosnan (considered for The Living Daylights but prevented by his contract to a silly 80's detective show known as Remington Steele) was selected for the legendary role. A few characters pounded out a script and story. An assortment of mostly little-known actors and actresses was compiled. And what followed would be one of the most successful, acclaimed, and treasured Bond films ever made; in short, cinema magic.

The story follows Bond through an intriguing turn of events involving a fallen comrade (006) and a stolen Russian satellite with the power to devastate entire cities. (Apparently, the writers couldn't resist one last flick with an evil Russian.) Bond races across Europe and into Cuba to track down and foil the vicious plot to cripple the entire UK.

The casting was near-perfect. Brosnan took no time to step into the role, outdoing Moore, Dalton, and Lazenby breathlessly. (Even Connery may have to admit defeat here.) Sean Bean shines as the crisply arrogant villain. The dazzling Izabella Scorupco  is perfect as the breathtaking and brilliant Natalya Simonova, a Russian programmer who saves Bond as often as he saves her. Famke Janssen sizzles as the wildly insane Xenia Onatopp, a Soviet pilot with impressive combat skills and unusually strong thighs. Robbie Coltrane and Alan Cumming, the supporting Russians, are delightful diversions. And Judi Dench comes through as the new, tough, but ultimately caring M.

The action is gripping; an assault on a Soviet chemical arms factory (with not one, but two heartpounding jumps), a mildly gratuitous car chase down a mountain, the EMP blast on a Siberian computer facility, an escape from an exploding Tiger helicopter, the breakout from a Russian jail, accompanying city-smashing tank chase, train derailment and explosion, attack on the Cuban satellite dish, and final agent vs. agent showdown; you get the picture.

Still, any movie can have sizzling action and quirky casting. But GoldenEye goes further than any of its comrades in the series. The plot is thick with intrigue, and development is paced so we are constantly in suspense. A now-famous scene between Bond and Simonova dives into just who Bond really is. (Aficionados: Don't worry, they get back to the action soon enough.)

In short, GoldenEye is the summit of James Bond movies and an achievement in the history of action movies. Not that you care; you want a flick with stunning women, blazing explosions, and slick one-liners. (It's got that, don't worry.) For the Bond lover, the casual fan, or just someone looking for a damn good movie, GoldenEye is the answer.