I have heard of The X-Men comic books, but that is as far as it goes.  But that would not seem to matter here.  Actually, I would suggest that the X-MEN is directed at the un-initiated.
The setting is the near-future.  Humanity has started it's next stage of evolution and a small percentage are born with "mutations".  These mutations empower the every day individual with some special ability.
There is divide in the general population as to how to respond to these "mutants" with some calling for registration and legal segregation and others calling for integration.  You would be correct in thinking that the thematic point of X-MEN serves as an allegory on racism.  Indeed, the opening sequence depicting the taking of Jews into a Nazi concentration camp delivers the theme effectively.
The "hero" of this flick is Wolverine(Hugh Jackman), a mutant who has a second metallic skeleton that allows him to shoot razor sharp talons out of his knuckles.  He is introduced to us through Roque(Anna Paquin), a teenage girl whose mutation causes her to take the life-force from another human at a single touch.  Rogue, running scared from her family and friends, teams up with Wolverine who is making a living as a traveling bare-knuckle fighter.  Together, they are rescued from Magneto(Ian McKellen) and his henchmen Mystique(Rebecca Romijn-Stamos), Toad(Ray Parks), and Sabretooth(Tyler Mane) by the X-Men.
The X-Men are a team of mutants led by Prof. Charles Francis Xavier(Patrick Stewart).  His objective is to teach mutants to control and respect their powers while educating society on the value of mutants.  The overall aim here is for society to accept and integrate mutants.  His old friend and nemesis, Magneto, believes that in order for mutants to survive, they must fight society.  Xaviers team are: Cyclops(James Marsden) who can shoot fire from his eyes, Storm(Halle Berry) who can control the weather, and Dr. Jean Grey(Famke Janssen) who has telepatic powers.
The less experienced Sci-Fi moviegoer may find the detailed stories rather challenging.  The multiple stories and themes that run through this movie are complex yet compelling and - as is always the case with "pack" movies - the viewer is often left feeling that they would have liked to known more about each character.  
In terms of action, the fight sequences are expertly performed and are very reminiscent of The Phantom Menace's Jedi/Darth Maul fight scene.  Indeed Ray Parks (who played Darth Maul in Episode 1) is given plenty of opportunity to display those same skills again.  The special effects are somewhat muted and serve to enhance the movie rather than to overtake the plot.  I was particularly fond of a scene outside a railway station where Magneto (who can control metal) stops a bullet in front of a policemans forehead and threatens to let it go again.
Overall, the X-MEN is a very good movie packed with plenty of story and enough visuals to keep everyone happy.
Additionally, I am particularly fond of the the DVD box presentation.  The attractive packaging starts to draw you in before you even watch the movie.  A brownie point for Fox there.