Summary:
Awesome cast, great atmosphere, but the quality of the stories varies from the best
that science fiction has to offer to the most boring imaginable.

Main review
The concept of a series taking place shortly after the First Contact Movie is a brilliant idea. But it seems a long way from the idea to realisation. Already at the end of the pilot (Broken Bow) I missed the greatness this concept potentially has. You get thrown into "business as usually" (rescuing, exploring etc.) way too soon. I would have loved a pilot movie plus some more shows describing the time from first contact to the launch of Enterprise. That would have been something truly new. But this pilot is just an extended version of a 08/15-show.

The cast delivers frequently - Scott Bakula is on hell of as sovereign captain, Jolene Blalock is sexy as she is intelligent and plays T'Pol with a huge amount of depth. I could continue endlessly with Phlox, Hoshi, Trip, Malcolm...  It's an outstanding team with no need to fear comparison with a Picard, Spock, Scotty...
The set designers and the costume designers all did a great job (thanks for avoiding more romper suits).

But it is difficult when there are too many boring scripts.
Especially in the first two seasons contain too many shows following the pattern:
"Landing on an alien world, been taken prisoner, making an escape." Even the visit to Risa follows this.
Also there is "being boarded, been held hostage, chasing away the enemy".
Then there are some episodes like "Shuttle pod one". The whole show consists of a rather dry talk between Malcolm and Trip. I can't imagine something more boring.
And a lot of the shows contain just a recycled script from "Next Generation", "Deep Space 9" and "Voyager", such as "Terra Nova", "Sleeping Dogs", "Dawn"...

But on the other hand you can't skip those episode - they sometimes contain important information on the characters. Therefore the waiting for the good and outstanding episodes is somewhat painful. These are the shows "The Andorian Incident" (I love the duplicity of the Andorians and there development into the 4th season) , "Shockwave", "First Flight" and the continuing plot about the Xindi (finally a few more star battles than in TOS, TNG and DS9).

Then when the series was already near its death the 4th season hit with power. The plot about the Augments could have been an Oscar-winning movie, and so would have been the story about the Vulcan's not been that perfect after all. The Andorians continue to deliver and the racial conflict with "Terra Prime" is the kind of stuff I waited 4 seasons for.

Conclusion
Seeing the 4th season there is defiantly potential for three more seasons.
But with the experiences of the first two seasons I can't blame the network for discontinuing the show.

I bought the slime line boxes and paid for each 13 British Pounds (18 US-Dollar). If I had paid the regular price for the first editions (80 Dollar) I would have been very upset.