After intense study I have changed my view of this film. I believe we are lucky to have this version of the movie. Welles had his chance to edit the film and came up with some very strange cuts. He reduced the "rough" cut of 131 minutes to 110 minutes. In doing so he left out some of the best scenes and also left out the emotional core of the film. When the film was previewed it was a disaster. For the second preview editor Robert Wise, who Welles had given complete authority while he was filming a documentary in South America, added back most of Welles' "big cut"(the elmination of everything from Isabel recieving Eugene's letter to the family gathered outside her room before her death) and cut other scenes that had not worked. This second edit was 117 minutes. The second preview did better but there were still problems. Wise and others associated with the film and who were all friends of Welles came up with a compromise plan. Welles accepted some of the cuts and additions. He even agreed to the reshuffling of scenes after the death of the Major. However, he still wanted his "big cut" of 13 minutes and 40 seconds. He wanted to preserve the ballroom scene, the montage sequences, and his revised ending. It was only at this point, after two and a half months of effort, that studio head George Schaefer told Wise to do what was necessary to fix the film. Schaefer's indulgence of Welles led to him losing his job shortly after this. After two more previews and more cuts and additions the film was released at 88 minutes. Post-production was compelted before the new studio head took over. So the film was finished by people who had a stake in the film and were friends of Welles. Wise did an outstanding job editing the film, as one would expect of the man who edited "Citizen Kane" and later would win two Oscars for best director. The only filmic element we lost was the "dancing camera" effect in the ballroom scene. The reason for the edits in this scene was bad acting and poor audience reaction. Small portions of the montage sequences were also cut. The audience was restless during these and the cuts tightened them up. Some of the scenes that were cut were unnecessary, long and boring dialogue sequences. The new and reshot scenes were unavoidable due to bad acting and poor audience reaction. It would have been better to have Welles do these sequences. However, that was impossible because he was in South America. We are very lucky to have as fine a film as we have. Welles was mostly upset about the new ending. However, he agreed with the rest of the film and he did not ask for his name to be taken off. I think he was mad that it turned out so well without his direct participation! At times it seemed as though he was trying to destroy his own film! I can now watch the film without thinking that we lost a masterpiece. If we ever find the "rough" cut, thats what we will have, a "rough" cut, not a finished film. If Welles would have had nine months to edit his "rough" cut I am sure we would have a masterpiece to rival "Citzen Kane." But given the circumstances that was not to be. I am glad we have what we have. It is a five star classic movie.