I'm not a film analyst, and I won't pretend to be.  I wasn't sure I would like this film, based on the reviews, which were favorable.  That's because I didn't know whether I could trust them.
I suspected that reviewers may have had an axe to grind, one way or another.  Sean Connery will always get good reviews for even a fair performance, his fans are that loyal.  Fortunately, he doesn't mail too many performances in, so he usually satisfies in any case.  Then, there is heavy black/African American content in this movie, and that can bring out higher or lower ratings, based on political or racial considerations, rather than the merits of the film.
Sean Connery's performance, to me, was indeed outstanding.  His best?  I save that title for The Man Who Would Be King, but this one is right up there.  Rob Brown, in his first effort, was actually pretty good for a newcomer.  If you notice the acting, the actor screwed up.  I didn't notice it, so he must have done a good job.  It might well have been a veteran actor.
Jamal's family is presented as typically semi-functional for a black neighborhood in a major American city (it looked like the Bronx to me, but it's been a long time since I've been there).  His father is gone, mother is great, his brother has an honest but low paying job.  Oddly, the one thing I noticed about the neighborhood is the almost total absence of crime, gangs, and drugs.  That's almost total, since the only crime I saw take place was when Jamal broke into Forrester's apartment, and even that wasn't motivated by thievery.  Rather it was curiosity, and he did it on a dare, like a bunch of scared kids outside a haunted house.  For the writer and director to leave out the challenge of crime in that neighborhood must have been an intentional choice.  Perhaps they felt Jamal already had enough challenges, and I can't fault that logic.
Forrester, of course, is being compared to writer J.D. Salinger.  A fine writer who did one novel, and some magazine pieces, and was pretty much a recluse for reasons known only to him.  There is another man he might be likened to, and that is radio personality, writer, and actor Jean Shepherd, who died almost two years ago on Sanibel Island, Florida.  Details are different, but I sure recognize the attitude.  Both men were damned hard to really know, and each had his own means of hiding out from admirers.
If there were one loose end, one might point to the fact that Forrester offered no apology to some one he deeply wronged, when he could have.  It might well have been in character for him not to, though.
I won't give away anything about the ending, except to say that final scene was an eye opener, and things look really interesting for Jamal.
Finding Forrester didn't get very much publicity.  I think it deserved to have more.  It is a fine film.