It is disgusting how so many people describe The Godfather Part III as a "disgrace," as a movie that is just.....bad. People who give this movie one star are, quite frankly, imnbeciles - it's no Casablanca, nor is it a Gigli, either. It is not that bad as to be ranked a one star review - it should be judged independent of its predecessors, not against its predecessors.

The Godfather Part III is a movie about the redemption of Michael Corleone and his grooming of his nephew, Vincent Santorini (played wonderfully by Andy Garcia), to become the next Don of the Corleone family.  The movie is written very well, and does not move slow or tediously, as another reviewer stated.  This movie had me shaking with anticipation and excitement, especially at the  opera scene.

Many people have pointed out Sofia Coppola's amateur acting as a main detractor for this movie. I came into this movie ready to be disappointed with subpar acting, but was pleasantly suprised with the fine acting. Granted, Sofia Coppola's acting in certain scenes (such as her discussion with Michael during breakfast about being a front for the Foundation) to be very grimace-worthing, but, IMHO, she did quite a decent job acting. Andy Garcia, while not up to James Caan's acting in the original Godfather(who could match him, though?) performs superb as Santino's son, and he is convincing enough to make the viewer believe he is, in fact, the son of Sonny Corleone.  Al Pacino, regardless to say, is phenomenal as Michael Corleone, and provides some of the most moving moments in the whole trilogy here.

With The Godfather Part III,  Francis Coppola ties many loose ends together, and satisfies the viewer with a very good conclusion to one of the greatest film stories in cinema. The similarities between the death of Vito Corleone and the end of this movie are striking, further tying the movies together.  The harshness some people show towards this film is unwarranted-they are disappointed because it is not like any of its predecessors. Independently, this is a very good movie that deserves some sort of recognition for tastefully concluding a legendary trilogy.