I was made to watch this movie in my sophomore year of high school by my history professor and after sitting through what I thought would be "just another early, black &amp; white movie," I was stunned to find that there was a gem sparkling underneath. I believe that this is probably one of the best movies ever made, wholly in story. I couldn't care less about who acted in it or how it was filmed or whether or not it is in color. Simply put, the story for "12 Angry Men" is one of the most important stories written recently. (I use the word recently in a loose sense.)
Here we have 12 "average Joes," pulled into jury duty from various walks of life to watch a murder trial and decide whether or not the defendent is guilty. It's a story you might hear a friend talk about. The defendent, in this case, will be put to death if found guilty; probably one of the toughest choices any conscious human will ever have to make. The 12 jurors argue the case, its sometimes shaky evidence and their morals, just as jurors would do in real life in such a case. And that's where the gem lies - it exposes the flaws in our judicial system.
"12 Angry Men" might as well be a true story, as something like this has to have happened before. The film shows how easily some people accept the word of people like them and how easily they condemn people different from them - how easily they let their views get in the way of rational thinking. Our justice system is supposed to provide every defendent with a fair trial, in hopes that the truth be exposed and the proper sentence be judged. "12 Angry Men" illustrates the fact that sometimes, defendents aren't always given fair trials. And, in the case of the Puerto Rican boy charged with the murder of his father in the movie, sometimes innocent people are put to death based on simple prejudices. If not for Henry Fonda's character, the boy would have been put to death; even though there *was* reasonable doubt that he was guilty of the crime he was charged with.
If not to discourage people from favoring the death penalty, I believe that "12 Angry Men" should be seen to open some people's eyes and help them think rationally. This movie was way ahead of its time in story, in the vein of "Gentleman's Agreement." I recommend it to anyone of any age because there are no swears, nudity, or guns in any of the scenes. The only "violence" it has is created by the tensions between the 12 jurors and there are no fights of any kind. A masterpiece and a timeless classic.