What I truly didnt like about this film was how the movie took what potentially could have linked politics of our real world with the fictional character of Satan and shattered the truths that the base of the film out lines with the freakish deaths.

I mean, thats the only reason why you would write a story about the antichrist am I right.

You look at the truths of Christ and realize that he was just a man like the rest of us that radiated on a higher level of awareness about what our lives should be all about, love.

So the film should have looked at the truths of the antichrist in being a man with no other intention than to destroy love.

Jesus didnt do anything magical during his life other than over shadow a beautiful energy apon all those he came inter connected with.  So Damien should have just been a normal man who would kill and rip the guts out of the planet for his and his mates own interests.  Much like George Bush with an even more Rupert Murdoch intensity.

Having people murdered and not be killed by some freak force of nature would have made this film much more intense.

Instead of a crow which has not got the potential to think out side its nature let alone make a church colapse and give an old woman a cardiac arrest.  Have more characters such as the uncles wife and the dude in Thorn industries doing this stuff.

For instance, the egails wall scene where bugenhagen and his poor mate Michael are buried should have been done with a couple of Damiens aposels blowing the joint up in perfect timing when the 2 see damiens face on the wall.

Aunt Marrion should have had her heart attack caused by some one Anne knew to inform that she was threatening Damiens education vital for his role as the antichrist.

In the end, the gospel stuff means Damien should just blow the planet up in a 3rd world war, not kill the holy and collect souls for hell.  I mean what sense does that make.

Anyway the music is great in the film.  Damiens painting on Egails wall and that scene besides the crow and the way the place caves in was fantastic.

Still if they remake this, they should get some inside imformation from those who spent alot of time with George Bush during his time of power and evil selfish entities such as Rupert Murdoch and such.

my favourite line in the hole movie is when bogenhagen says 'already hes in the world and he will practise and prosper until he destroys the mighty and holy'

the irony of that one line is this.  what are the 2 most evil forces on our planet?  the answer is politics and religion.  the mighty and the holy.  hmmm, seems damien isnt so bad afterall if he intends to bring down these evils