It's understandable that if you've read a book a few times, you'll have a vision on how to translate the book to the screen. However, most readers are not really authorities on how do so, nor do they have the resources to do so. I'm not either, but I know that IT IS DIFFICULT!  The Lord of the Rings crowd falls into the same trap.  You cannot make a perfect adaptation.  The screenwriters and directors have their own versions of the characters and events in the novel.  Sometimes they have to add new aspects, give other characters more purpose in the narrative.  The medium requires adaptation and adaptation requires addition and subtraction.  What you think is important may not be what the screenwriter thinks is important.  We all read the book and get different messages.
This version of Dune, being almost 5 hours long total is about as thorough as one can achieve on the screen, especially on a made-for-TV, shoestring budget.  To fit everything Herbert wrote in the book would require two or three seasons of episodes.  The screenwriter took shortcuts in places that were completely excusable.  Ultimately, this tells the story.  The actors are cast well and achieve what the screenwriter intended, though it might not be exactly what Herbert intended.  Yet Herbert's spirit is still alive.
For those who criticize the acting and fight scenes, why don't you watch the last few science fiction epics that have come out on screen and then make judgments (e.g. Yoda scene from Episode II - octogenarian vs. cartoon monkey).  The special effects were also formidable for a TV series.  It was pretty inexpensive CGI, but it achieved as well as the CGI we see in many modern sci fi films.
This was a good screen adaptation of a great book. I think a reasonable fan of the book can enjoy it, provided one doesn't go in with a checklist of factors that "must" be in any adaptation. It's one vision, one interpretation, probably not mine, but it's also not bad.  If you can do better, start writing your screenplay. If you can make it happen, I'll watch it.