After reading the reviews, I was apprehensive about watching Broken Sky. Turns out there were no reason to be because despite its flaws, I really enjoyed this movie which is beautifully filmed. The story is simple and captivating to watch. Gerardo and Jonas meet and begin a passionate affair. The young actors do a great job with their body language and expressive eyes. The sex and kissing scenes are natural as Jonas and Gerardo give themselves unreservedly to each other.  On the periphery of their affair is Sergio who longs for Gerardo who ignores him completely.

One night at a nightclub, Jonas dances with another man and becomes infatuated with this stranger who leaves him standing on the dance floor. Jonas loses his passion for Gerardo and thinks about the stranger all the time. Gerardo is hurt by Jonas' rejection and tries to rekindle their passion unsuccessfully. In time, Gerardo begins to reluctantly respond to Sergio's attention. Eventually Gerardo leaves Jonas and embarks on an affair with Sergio even though he does not feel as strongly for Sergio. Alone, Jonas begins to miss Gerardo and remember their love, but sees that he is now involved with Sergio. Jonas makes advances towards Gerardo who responds hoping to recapture their passion.  Meanwhile Sergio realizes that Jonas wants Gerardo back and senses something is wrong their relationship. However, Gerardo quickly realizes that he no longer loves Jonas and rejects his sexual advances. Gerardo reunites with Sergio and they profess their love for each other. Using a voiceover, we are told that some time later Jonas calls Gerardo to tell him how he regrets what happens and he will love him forever and they both cry. This poignant voiceover is accompanied by flashbacks to the boys' initial lovemaking and Jonas' encounter with the stranger on the dance floor. I am only giving a detailed synopsis because so many reviewers are understandably confused about the film's plot.

The director knowingly or unknowingly has made in this film in the tradition of Wong Kar-Wai using limited dialogue, music and voiceovers, but the movie has problems. The lack of dialogue hampers the story telling partly because we are so accustomed to dialogue, but also because by the time you discern what is going on in the scene, it is almost over and the next one is on the screen.  I can't imagine sitting in a theatre watching this movie, when at home, I had to rewind the DVD several times to catch things because there are dream sequences and memories spliced into the present day scenes which makes the story somewhat confusing.  Also, as other reviewers have said the movie is simply too long.  The first couple of times that Jonas rejects Gerardo is enough to get the point across so move on. It seems to me that directors of all eras and continents are unable to figure out when it is time to end their movies. Even with this criticism I wish the DVD had commentary or an interview with the director to get some insight into his thought process when he made this interesting and passionate film.

Broken Sky isn't for everyone, but it is a refreshing love story. We all can relate to falling in love and losing that love. There are no manufactured obstacles coming between the young lovers instead the story unfolds naturally. Also, it was great to see a gay love story not focused on the angst of coming out or AIDS or homophobia or the gay guy falling for his straight best friend.