HBO hired Richard Russo as screenwriter to turn his Pulitzer Prize winning novel into a TV film. Not only did he have the scope provided by television ( several distinct chapters, three plus hours) to represent the novel properly; he also ended up with a superb, really an inimitable cast: Paul Newman, Joanne Woodward, Ed Harris, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Robin Wright Penn, Dennis Farina, Helen Hunt, Aidan Quinn, and lesser lights whose day will come. What raw talent!

The result is fantastic. I've never seen a film that was so faithful to the novel that prompted it. (And take advantage of the screenwriter/director's commentary really to plumb the depths of this.) "Empire Falls (the movie)" is really the test case of the question "Can a novel truly be turned into a film?" And the answer is an emphatic "YES!" Although I read the book first, with my imagination turned on full force, I will never again be able to visualize the characters of Max Roby and the Silver Fox as anyone but Paul Newman and Dennis Farina.

An interesting side question, however: Did Russo realize things about the novel that he got to clarify when he was screenwriter in the film? I certainly thought so. It was suddenly clear to me that old Max Roby was the foil to Francine Whiting, and that the central question of the story was where and how a person determines to express love: The disreputable old charmer Max Roby made the decision to offer love where his ethics and commitment (however doubtful both of these were) told him to, whereas Francine permitted herself to wander away from love to embrace power and revenge. Maybe Russo was bringing out more distinctly what, as author, he knew was already there in the novel, but maybe he was simply realizing in the film for the first time what he had hoped to accomplish in the book (and this latter is what I for one think).

Thus, this film is simultaneously a best reading of the book, while also providing a new understanding of it. In any case, how could anyone do anything but recommend it enthusiastically?