This movie is being pushed as all Zac Efron. Fortunately for Zac, he has a very good supporting cast that keep him from falling flat. The fact that this release comes with not only the Blu-ray edition, but a standard definition DVD and a digital copy adds to its value that may push it from being just a rental to worth purchasing.

I didn't look at the latter two, since the Blu-ray version was all that I was interested in. The picture quality is very good, without any artifacts or edge enhancement problems to be found. The Dolby TrueHD audio track is also surprisingly good. Many times, comedies aren't good movies for getting decent sound, but when the movie calls for it, the subwoofer and the surround channels get a chance to perform.

The extras aren't bad, but unless you're in love with Zac Efron and/or you just have to see more of the movie, no matter what, they're largely forgettable. The BD-Live extras aren't all that much better, except for the fact that this is the first WB title I've seen to contain a "My Commentary" segment, which was recorded by Thomas Lennon, Zac Efron, and Melora Hardin. It's actually funny to watch them rip on each other and recount the movie as it's playing.

The movie itself is a Zac Efron vehicle. It features him on the cover, it calls him out in the corner of the packaging (Packed with Zac!), and even the extras highlight the fact that the screenplay was rewritten specifically for Zac Efron to play the lead. We've seen this kind of movie before, and its themes have been covered much better by those that preceded it, so then it falls onto the performances of the cast to make it better than mediocre. While Efron doesn't do a bad job, his supporting cast saves the movie from mediocrity. Thomas Lennon elevates every scene he's in, and the chemistry between Matthew Perry and Leslie Mann is very good as well.

For most people, this might be a rental, but if you're on the fence, the extras make it worth the purchase. You can read more about this disc on The BigScreen Cinema Guide!