Adaptations of Irving novels have always been problematic (at least in my own experience). 'The Cider House Rules' was clumsily executed while 'Simon Birch' can barely be called a worthwhile flim. Writer/director Tod "Kip" Williams has broken the Irving curse with a film based on not an entire novel, but the first third of Irving's 'A Widow for One Year,' based on the notion that this section's three central characters are all capable of maintaining an interesting film.

Williams turned out to be absolutely right. In adapting only the first, self-sufficient third of the sprawling life portrait, Williams avoids having to remove crucial moments and contrain the ever-important cycle of life. Irving's own poeticism is intact, as well, since there is no need to drastically restructure or slice-and-dice dialogue.

'The Door in the Floor' is a rumination on grief. Its main characters --Ted (Jeff Bridges) and Marion (Kim Basinger) Cole-- each represent the various reactions to death in the family. In this case, Marion is the half of the couple that is hit the hardest by the death of her beloved sons in an exhaustingly emotional car crash. One of the film's most brilliant shots is of Basinger's eyes, staring cold into a distance of unfathomable lengths, a distance not recognizable to those who gravitate around her empty shell of a body. Here we see she cannot manage to move on with her life, her soul drained by depression.

Ted, on the other hand, seems to be alive and well, full of heart and creativity, still thriving as "an entertainer of children" who "likes to draw." But Bridges maintains that Ted is the half of the couple that attempts to move on yet knows that there will always be a piece of himself missing, whether he'd like to admit it or not. The third party in 'The Door in the Floor' is young Eddie O'Hare (Jon Foster), who is hired by Ted more or less as a pawn in his marriage's separation rather than an assistant. Eddie resembles one of the Coles' two sons and ends up in a steamy affair with Marion that is borderline incestuous.

Initially, 'The Door in the Floor' is elevated by great performances. Jeff Bridges turns out perhaps his best performance, capturing every nuance in Ted, culminating in the telling of his sons' deaths as if reading allowed one of his own children's books. This monologue is so perfectly detailed with puncturing subtlety that his words grow to be heart-poundingly emotional, full of subtext and gravity. Kim Basinger also turns out nomination-worthy work as Marion, almost literally climbing into her character's psyche of stone through her sole vulnerability, both aspects of Marion that are conveyed with precision. Jon Foster and Mimi Rogers, as Ted's needy nude model and mistress, are both very capable and manage to leave an impression. The film's further emotional weight is complemented by an elegant score and caressed by well-composed camera work.