YZMA--"Tell us where the talking llamer is, and we'll burn your house to the ground."
KRONK--"Uh, don't you mean, or?"
YZMA--(heavy sigh) "Tell us where the talking llamer is, OR we'll burn your house to the ground."
PACHA'S-DAUGHTER-WHOSE-NAME-I-FORGET--"Well, which is it? That seems like a pretty crucial conjunction."

That is one of my favorite quotes from the movie. Which isn't saying much, for if I were to tell you ALL my favorite quotes, I would be quoting the entire movie. Which I can do. But I don't think anyone here wants that.

Featuring the considerable talents of David Spade, Patrick Warburton, Eartha Kitt, John Goodman, and others, this movie is, in a word, gorgeous. It is one of the only animated movies I can watch now, as a fifteen-year-old, and still adore. (Though I'd love to see the originally planned film, KINGDOM OF THE SUN -- it sounds interesting, according to the professional reviews.)

Matching Kronk's wackiness is Yzma's hilarious villainy ("Pull the lever, Kronk! WRONG LEVEEEEEEERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR!!!!!!!!!!!!!!") and matching off Kuzco's selfishness and sarcastic wit is Pacha the peasant. In this movie you end up rooting for the "villains" -- Kronk and Yzma -- almost as much as Kuzco and Pacha. Kuzco is, of course, at the beginning, more a villain than a good guy anyway.

THE PLOT: By firing his millenia-old adviser Yzma, Emperor Kuzco gets himself a death wish from said advisor, aided by her hapless right-hand man, Kronk, who accidentally mixes up the poison with extract of llama and turns the former emporor into a long-necked hairball. Too softhearted to hurl the bratty eighteen-year-old Emperor over the edge of a waterfall, he accidentally trips and throws the bag holding Kuzco onto the cart of Pacha, the leader of a village Kuzco means to demolish in order to build himself a summer house with waterslide -- "It's my birthday gift to me!!!" Together, Pacha and Kuzco must get Kuzco back to the palace and back into human form -- but meanwhile the new empress Yzma has found out about Kronk's blunder and is chasing him too -- or, rather, Kronk is, and she's riding in a litter he's wearing as a backpack.

I can't give much more enthusiastic praise for this movie than I've already given, but I'll just leave you with one last, classic quote between Yzma and Kronk.

"WHAT? A llama? HE'S SUPPOSED TO BE DEAD!"
"Yeah...weird."
....
"Take him out of town and finish the job! NOW!"
"But what about dinner?" (Kronk is a talented chef, did I mention that?)
"Kronk...this is kind of important."
"But what about dessert?"
"Ah -- well, I suppose there's time for dessert."
(Kronk nods eagerly) "And coffee!"
"All right, a quick cup of coffee. THEN TAKE HIM OUT OF TOWN AND FINISH THE JOB!"

Rating: Very Good