It may be Woody Allen's second best film, next to Annie Hall and is at least partly responsible for a popular resurgence of interest in the legendary Romany guitar virtuoso, Django Reinhardt. Enough has been written about the film's wonderful cinematography, fine performances by Sean Penn and Samantha Morton and Mr. Allen's brilliant direction.  Here I would like to emphasize the real star of the film: the music, as arranged and played by Howard Alden, one of the great new-generation jazz guitarists helping to bring about the revival of jazz Manouche, or Gypsy jazz.

  Sweet and Lowdown helped create a new audience for this once ubiquitous European style, the almost singular creation of  Django Reinhardt, swing jazz violinist Stephane Grappelli and the other house musicians of the now historic Parisian nightspot, Le Hot Club du France.  A volatile amalgam of Romany folk melodies, musette dance tunes and newly-imported American jazz (which arrived in France shortly after 'the Great War') Django's music took fire in the nineteen thirties, surviving the Nazi occupation and thriving well into the post-WWII era.  The death of Django Reinhardt in 1953 and the emergence of bebop effectively ended the public love affair with jazz Manouche, which all but vanished as record collectors snapped up the surviving 78s and only a few poorly mastered LP recordings survived.

  But Django's solos, his amazing technique and signature tunes would survive over the decades in the Romany caravans from which it came, to resurface in the past decade as the Hot Club Revival, drawing increasingly large gatherings of musicians and fans to Django festivals,  Django Jazz camps and nightclubs all over the world featuring Gypsy Jazz Nights.  After digitally remastered CDs brought Reinhardt's prolific recordings back to the mainstream and a new generation of jazz musicians discovered the joys of playing this challenging style, the revival took root. Now there is a new generations of Gypsy jazz guitarists such as Bireli Lagrene, Angelo DeBarre, Stochelo Rosenberg and others, who are responsible for keeping the flame alive.

  Howard Alden did an amazing job recreating the sound and energy of Hot Club swing, providing a much deeper level of authenticity to what, in the wrong hands, could have been just another shallow period piece. The cars and clothes may have a vintage look and feel, but the music sounds fresh, vibrant and extremely listenable, even to the uninitiated ear.

  If you haven't seen this film, you're in for a treat.  Afterwards, you may want to venture out to hear more of this incredible music, thereby joining the tidal wave of Django enthusiasts literally sweeping the music world. And that wave isn't cresting any time soon.

-Bill Barnes