"The Devil's Advocate" is one of those movies that you can't stop thinking about after it's finished.  Scenes keep replaying through your head.  It's a movie that makes you think, despite it's strange, fantasy-like plot-line.  Al Pacino, without a doubt, delivers one of the best and most potent performances of his career.  Keanu Reeves isn't up to his usual standard of acting, but he plays wooden characters very well.  Once again, in "The Devil's Advocate", Keanu is wooden.  That's alright though, it really doesn't take anything away from the story line.  It doesn't matter who the director intended to be the movies main character; Pacino steals the show, but don't get me wrong.  He has his competition.
Charlize Theron delivers a performance the caliber of which I didn't think she was capable.  She portrays the stages of madness through which her character stumbles through very accurately, cryptically, and passionately.  Her character (Keanu Reeves' wife) is slowly isolated and cut off from her husband through the doing Pacino, who uses the seven deadly sins to manipulate Keanu and keep him as far away from his wife as possible while at the same time manipulating her with a various assortment of devilish tricks.  
The dialogue in this movie is incredible.  The conversations in this movie alone are worth watching.  Pacino generally has the most thought-provoking lines in the film, though Keanu's mother and Theron have their moments.  I can't think of a single flaw in the character chemistry and interactions within this movie.  It's perfect.  Half the movie you feel your stomach writhing and twisting as you find yourself thinking and re-evaluating issues and aspects of your life you'd either forgotten about or taken for granted.  These aren't the only time in which you'll feel your stomach doing helixes in your bowels, however.
For the other half of the movie, your insides will squirm with discomfort.  This movie is one of the most R rated movies I've ever seen.  Chalked full with graphic images including nudity, horror, blood/guts, violence and dialogue that includes some seriously disturbing topics, this movie becomes increasingly difficult to sit through as you go on.  The director makes it very clear he's not sparing the viewer for anything.  The camera rarely ever cuts or zooms in during the appropriate moments.  Instead, he captures everything in startling detail.  For instance, a suicide scene in which a character slits their throat is very, very graphic and terrifyingly realistic.  Another scene of sequence of violence goes back and forth between Pacino talking about humans greed and a character in the movie being beaten to death by two demons (supposedly sent by Al Pacino).  Other examples of disturbing images would be a series of scenes that feature Charlize Theron, one in which you see her completely nude with large gashes and slashes across her body, and another scene which could easily be classified as horror and is too difficult to really describe.  It suffices to say that it involves Charlize Theron and a baby child within a conjured halucination of Pacino's; yet another way of driving Theron's character mad.
When these two elements combine, it makes for a compelling and thought provoking film pot-holed with graphic imagery and disturbing themes.  Even the climax of the movie includes an impressive amount of nudity, sexual content and violence.  Despite all of this though, "The Devil's Advocate" is a very worth-while and ultimately poweful film, if not completely comfortable to watch all the way through.  I don't recommend this movie for family viewing or young children.  It's a movie that you need to mentally prepare for, and perhaps have an "antidote" movie lined up, perhaps a good-hearted comedy.  There is one more good thing I can say for this movie; it has a satisfying ending.  It's a film where the ending could make or break the entire feel of the movie.  If you're going to sit through a movie that feels twice as long as it is with the constant assaults on your senses and comfort with controversy, adult themes and disturbing images, you're holding out for a good ending.  Well, without a doubt, "The Devil's Advocate" delivers.  In short, this movie is worth seeing simply for it's thought-provoking dialogue and plot-line.