As a lifelong Horror fan & the producer of two anthologies myself Im very happy to see they are making a comeback. The fact we have a new theatrical horror anthology coming out called Theater of bizarre & and a ton of Horror anthology DVD releases it saddens me that with all the talent in Chillerama it stinks, I think this really gives a good traditional anthology a bad name. Lets face it Great movies Like Creepshow & all the old Amicus anthologies (Tales from the crypt Ect..) can never be touched, What gets me about this film is its really the only new anthology you will find in every Walmart & retail outlet across the country its not just confined to online purchase & indie record stores & i think its a case of well it's got Adam Green & Tim Sullivan as directors so there is a lot of who you know power behind this film with that said here is why i find this film a travesty. First of all its not a fun movie unless you like Troma style toilet humor because thats all this film has to offer, There is a short about a Killer sperm which is the monster on the cover that looks like Aliens deadly spawn. Then we have a short about Gay Werewolves (why) I don't even remember the other short & thats because after the Werewolf segment I was already completely turned off by this film. The best part of this movie is the wrap around scenes. Basically the film takes place in a Drive in and the shorts are what is playing at this drive in. If you wanna see a Great fun & old fashion Horror anthology that just came out I would definitely recommend Midnight Releasings Drive-In Horrorshow A fun Traditional Horror film for all ages which is how it should be. I mean when did Gay werewolves & Killer sperm Wads become scary NEVER its just dumb, this is definitely a trashy Horror comedy that should of been released by Troma, I am mad because like i said this shouldn't be thee most popular new anthology. There are way better ones out there & just because they don't have the Hollywood Power forces of Green & Sullivan behind them doesn't mean they cant be way better then Chillerama is. If you wanna see a great anthology produced recently in the last 2 yrs may I suggest Slices of Life, Drive-In Horror show or another good Horror comedy Nightmare Alley I would avoid this at all costs its not worth it unless you think Killer sperm is cool.