I searched for this movie simply because it was mentioned in a list of dramatic physical transformations that actors have undergone for film role.  The story of Christian Bale losing a tremendous amount of weight for his role in the Machinist, and then immediately afterward, gaining it back so quickly for his role as Batman was intriguing to me.  I had no idea what the story was about, and for a few months couldn't find the movie because I kept searching for "The Mechanic."

Netflix doesn't offer the movie on streaming, and there is no way to even view what movies are available on DVD through them, unless you PAY for dvd-by-mail service.  (How I despise Netflix! The marketing mistakes just keep on coming with those geniuses.)  If there is a way ... they've done a great job of hiding it. Sorry, I digress. Rant over.

It finally occurred to me to search on Amazon Prime Instant Video, under Christian Bale... and viola! I finally tracked down this elusive movie.  I was stunned by how powerfully good it was.  It's one of those movies that my mind kept returning to, the day after watching it.  The more I remembered the details of the movie, the more I appreciated what a beautifully orchestrated psychological thriller it really was.  It reminds me of the way I felt after watching "The Sixth Sense" years ago.  You don't fully appreciate how great it was until you've finished watching it. The Machinist is The Sixth Sense x 100.  It's smarter, scarier, and "real-er" (is that a word?) than the 6th sense ... and I really liked that movie.

The movie is gruesome at times.  Also heartbreaking.  I can't believe anyone could call this movie "slow moving" because I found it gripping, throughout.  This coming from a person who just watched it out of curiosity, to see the physical transformation of an actor I didn't particularly even like!  After hearing the audio of his temper tantrum a few years ago, I thought this actor was a spoiled self-important, pompous ass.  Now, after seeing this movie, I understand his need to immerse himself in a difficult role... and he is really truly amazing at it.  I have a family member with schizophrenia, and much of his performance was very familiar and sad to watch.  I spent much of the movie convinced that his character had a classic case of Schizophrenia.  But the full story is much more than that.  If you are going to watch this ... don't read too many reviews here!  Because the beauty, scratch that, ... power of this film is the unfolding of the story.  If I knew how it ended, my enjoyment of it would have been diminished, I think.

You MUST watch this film.  I can't believe I hadn't heard of it before.  Did it win awards?  Was it a sleeper or I just have been living under a rock?