To preface this review I would like to warn the curious potential viewer that the aforementioned film is not for the faint of heart, moderately squeamish, or anyone who would characterize themselves as "sophisticated". As Joe Castro states in the special features, he filmed this movie in three days for $2,300. It's conception was based on a Radiohead bumper sticker Castro and the producer saw with a violent looking cartoon, at which point they mused about what homicidal toons would be like.

  The film, as can be surmised by the budget, is so bad that even indie student directors producing off minimum wages would cringe. The set, albeit colorful and incredibly unique, exists entirely in the house of one of Castro's friends. The "music" is a single, grating theme that one could swear was stolen nearly note for note from far more notable, legendary composer(Danny Elfman) straight from a far grander, memorable film(Beetlejuice). The acting is abysmal, the plot, were the viewer to actually analyze what little there is, full of holes, and unfortunately for someone who isn't at least partially sick by conventional and commercial terms of psychiatric health, the film is rather long for a B-movie horror, clocking in at nearly two hours.

  The "terror toons" themselves, a purple Gorilla with a tommy gun by the name of Max Assassin and his creator the mad scientist Dr. Carnage, are two men in cheap costumes purchasable at any local halloween shop. All this aside however, the movie itself is actually highly entertaining, in a reasonably disturbing fashion. Though the script is incredibly awful, or more specifically because it is, the dialogue becomes so wretched that it is incredibly humorous. The murders themselves are so zany, so completely over-the-top that they break the bounds of what one would consider the horror genre, and quickly transcend into the realm of comedy. This is greatly aided by the sound effects, namely a kazoo and things often affiliated with Looney Tunes. With silly sounds, goofy cackling from Dr. Carnage, and what can only be described as universally manipulated chimp laughter provided by Max Assassin, it's hard to take grotesque torture seriously.

  And grotesque it is. The gruesome twosome run the gambit of macabre, from human puppets to a full frontal labotomy. The gore-fest is constant, but the gore itself is so cheesy that it is very hard to take seriously. Add to this the worst animations in film history, which really have no place or reason to be in the story(i.e a pesky mosquito), and over all you have a movie that is so terrible it becomes hillarious.

  I chose to write this review because after reading the other member's commentary I felt that not a single one of them did the film justice. They either said that it was the worst thing they had ever seen and left it at that, or they said they loved it and never explained why. Granted, everything about this movie is atrocious, but the overall effect is one that had this viewer rolling on the floor with laughter..I did say you had to be at least moderately sick = ) And I guess the joke is on the haters because since it's release the film has had a rather large fan base and serves as the archetype for brain damage films, Castro's company. If you're the least bit curious and want a "demented" movie that will have you laughing when there is no plausible reason to, go out and rent Terror Toons.