You may be looking at this movie in Leonard Maltin's book and saying, "Wow, this has the same rating as Unforgiven, the great western, it must be good."

Sadly, you could never be further from the truth, Maltin's rating just adds to the hilarity of just HOW BAD THIS MOVIE is. To start, you open the film with a very long credits scene that drags, get used to it, this is the way the whole film is going to go. The movie continues through the great american southwest as it slowly drags, you start up the movie with a small shoot out and that will be your only action you will see for half the movie.

The movie drags, the movie drags so much that saying it repeatedly in a review makes me feel like the review is dragging, but there is no other way to explain it, but constant drag. It drags as he drives around doing nothing, it drags when the cops get him, it drags when he finds the laser weapon, it drags while he figures out how to use the weapon, it drags until the time he gets to shoot the weapon.

The alien scenes really drag, but they speak and there isn't any captions so we can know what they are saying, so your watching them mumble nonsense, to encourage drag, they actually show clips from 25 minutes earlier in the movie, and it's not just a 15 second clip, it's like an edited version that is still LONG as they show that the Mark Hamill lookalike plays with the weapon going "pow" like a kid.

Anyway, back to dragging... Finally he blows a car up, which explodes at least for times, could they really pad this out anymore? After some more drag he goes to a doctor and they cut away part of his chest... then for no reason that I can think of... he blows the doctor's car up... 5 times. Then you guessed it... more drag.

What you've got here is lots and lots of drag, a car or building blowing up repeatedly, and then more drag. I love explosions, I really do, but the explosions DO NOTHING to help this movie.

After some more draggy scenes, somehow the character with the weapon who's name I can't even recall (and I watched this movie literally just a few minutes ago) winds up in a Bronx looking city blows some random stuff up, nothing major since the budget was pretty much spent on early explosions, and then the aliens arrive and shoot him. It's not entirely clear to me if he's actually dead, or the Aliens just took their tech back, but either way, his girlfriend is with him and the movie is over, roll credits...

This movie is a let down from front to back. If you wanna review movies and get a basic idea of what's great, watch a movie like Forest Gump of the Exorcist as a reference to a truly great movie, and then watch this load of crap for a reference of what is a really really bad movie.

My suggestion, don't buy it. If you MUST watch it, what the mystery science 3000 version of it, or at the very very least, just watch it on the internet. If you wanna spend money on a good movie from this era, go for Stephen King movie like Cujo or Shining, and STAY AWAY FROM LASERBLAST.