I've been a Godzilla fan almost since birth, thanks to Creature Feature on TV.  As a kid, I loved seeing the rubber monsters stampeding through a miniature city, even though I didn't really understand what was going on.  As an adult, I appreciate the old films' camp and kitsch value, and honestly wasn't expecting (or hoping for) much more.

Which is why 'Godzilla Against Mechagodzilla', and this film, caught me completely off guard.

To fully understand 'Tokyo S.O.S.', you pretty much have to watch 'Godzilla Against Mechagodzilla', as it is one of the few times a continuity exists between two movies.  In 'Tokyo S.O.S.', Japan is still reeling from Godzilla's last attack (no miraculous instant rebuilding here), and their mechanized superweapon constructed from the bones of the original Godzilla is out of commission.  Fearing another attack, the Japanese government rush Mechagodzilla's repairs.

Meanwhile, in a far off cottage, an old man is visited by a pair of acquaintances he hadn't seen in forty years, namely Mothra's pixie priestesses.  Apparently, Mothra learned that humans have desecrated the old Godzilla's body and spirit in creating a terrible weapon and sent her diminutive clerics to spread the message that she is not cool with that at all.  The priestesses assure the old man and his family, which includes one of MechaG's mechanics, that Mothra will defend them should Godzilla attack again, but warn of dire consequences should their warning not be heeded.  Naturally, the government doesn't listen; in fact, the prime minister mentions that MechaG was built, not just to repel Godzilla, but also Mothra and other monsters.

This sets the stage for one of the most spectacular kaiju battles ever to grace the screen.  The models have come a long way since Toho's heyday, and are amazingly realistic.  MechaG looks fantastic, and of course, the battle-scarred Godzilla has never looked better.  What stole the show for me was Mothra.  Her grand entrance in the beginning of the film was simply awesome, her wing flaps and twitching legs are far more fluid than they were in years past, and out of all the characters (human and kaiju alike), she was the most sympathetic.  I flinched when she was tossed like a rag doll against a skyscraper, and felt myself getting choked up when she heroically took the full blast of Godzilla's atomic breath to save her young and exploded in a fiery nimbus that has to be seen to be appreciated.

Not all the special effects are as excellent, with the silly string-webbing by Mothra's larvae being the biggest culprit.  However, it's easily forgiven when taken along with the rest.

Worth noting is the ending with MechaG, which will also tug at the heartstrings when it's discovered that it is sentient.

The acting and character development were pretty decent, and the pace is brisk.  Some plot holes are present, so suspension of disbelief is a must (besides, it's about giant monsters rampaging a world metropolis).

Overall, this is a fine addition to a lengthy series, and fans of Big G will not be disappointed.  In addition, Mothra fans will also find much to love, as she is portrayed lovingly with grace, might, and ultimately heroism.