Director Kasi Lemmons creates a movie that should be admired by greats such as Spielberg and Scorese. Eve's Bayou is riveting and captivating, leaving the audience engaged at every turn and begging for more of these characters by the end. In an almost dream-like Louisiana setting, Eve's Bayou provides an cinematic orgasm of eyes and mind. We are taken on a journey by a young Eve (Jurnee Smollett) and we get to see the summer in her life when tragedy dismantled her innocence and essentially revealed devastating secrets about her beloved father. The story is filled with secrets, lies, truths, love, and a complicated sibling rivalry. Eve's relationship with sister Cicly( Megan Good) is typical for girls. Both share a deep love for their father(Samuel L. Jackson) and compete for his affection. Cicly is the average teenaged girl who is struggling with becoming a woman while fighting to keep her family together and her father happy. While she adores her father, she begrudges her mother, Roz(Lynn Whitfield), showing us the electra complex at its best. The beautiful Roz is struggling with her failed marriage and disobedient children and becomes nervous from all the stress.

While this movie is packed with an all star cast (Lynn Whitfield, Jurnee Smollet, Samuel L. Jackson, Lisa Nicole Carson, Megan Good,and Diahann Carroll) the star of this film is definitely Debbi Morgan. Her portrayal as the psychic counselor/black widow sister of Louis (Samuel L. Jackson) is her best role yet. Her performance in this film rivals that of great black actresses like Angela Bassett, Whoopi Goldberg, and  Halle Barry. She really becomes Mozelle Batiste and we totally forget that she is a staple of cheesy daytime soap operas playing Angela Baxter of the famous black supercouple Angie and Jesse of All My Children. The scene when she describes the killing of her husband by a lover is amazing. I have watched it over and over again and I plan to watch many more times because she really is capable of fully pulling you in. The chemistry between Debbi and Jurnee is amazing and they make for a amazing duo on screen. They are such similar characters and its a shame that both were cheated out of Oscar nominations for this masterpiece. Debbi Morgan became my favorite actress the day I saw this film and I also look forward to seeing more from Kasi Lemmons. This is the best movie that I have seen in years (maybe ever) and is deserves to be on any list of the top films.