Most of today's teen flicks are made up of the same elements. They are full of cheerleaders, teen lust, and parties. "Orange County" is wonderfully original and redefines the teenage movie genre. The film is full of great jokes and an inventive plot that will leave you in awe of the originality of this movie. This is one of the few comedies that can be viewed of people of all ages due to no foul language and no sex, unless you consider rolling around and kissing sex. 
 Shawn is an Orange County teenager that used to live for surfing. When he was at the beach one day he stumbled upon a book that would change his life. The book that he read made him decide to give up surfing and made him start writing. Flash forward a year or so later and it's time for Shawn to apply for college. Shawn's dream school is the prestigious Stanford University. He applies to only that school because the college counselor (who has no clue what she's doing) says that he'll definitely get in. Shawn doesn't get in and thus starts his adventure to get in. From a meeting with a mony donor to the school all the way to a trip to Stanford, this is one film that will be enjoyed immensely. Will Shawn get into the school? Watch this film and find out!
 The best thing about the film is without a doubt that characters and the actors who play them. Award winning actor Tom Hanks' son Colin plays the lead character of Shawn. Colin puts on a truly fantastic performance. His talent will make you wish that other teen actors were as good as him. The girl that plays Shawn's girlfriend in the film is great as well. Jack Black plays Shawn's brother, and to be honest, this movie would have been nowhere as good as it was without him. Shawn's parents are truly fantastic as well as you can see how money affects their lives in a bad way. 
 This film is a lesson on many things. Shawn's quest to be a writer shows how that wherever you are and in whatever atmosphere you are in that you can achieve what you want with hard work. As said above, the film shows how money does not buy happiness and can contribute to a melancholy life. 
 "Orange County" is a movie that shows how all teen movies should be. It is a wonderful comedy that teaches various lessons while entertaining. Anybody that is looking for a refreshing and original film in the comedy genre need not look anywhere but here.
Happy Viewing!