One of the best films I have seen in my life.  I sat spellbound throughout this film, and wept uncontrollably through most of it, while laughing and feeling waves of joy and insight sweep over me, as it peeled away "layers and layers of human onion peel". Not only is the beauty and saturated color of this film overwhelmingly beautiful, the incredible scenes around the legendary Dharamsala, the footage of India, and Harrison Ford's moving readings of a handful of key quotes that punctuate and divide the sections of this film, make it a rich multi-layered experience.
  This is an incredible depiction of the disturbing, inevitable and ultimately liberating and very human friction that that flowed out of the group dynamics generated by this gathering of 40 highly learned professors, priests, psychologists, physicists, and others that His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama invited, allowed and granted audience to for a week long visit to Dharamsala.
  The invited group's idea was to brainstorm and come up with a synthesis of the group's "brilliant ideas" (generated by their sincere but often ego-filled and top-heavy intellectual minds) and present those ideas to His Holiness The Dalai Lama, to see what he would think...
  This is not a normal or typical documentary about The Dalai Lama. To those that think that The Dalai Lama is an overrated, or over-venerated projection of people's desires to have a "super-human" deity to "worship": this film will surprise them. Tenzin Gyatso, His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, in his own completely natural way, explodes and deflates the group's (and the audience's) expectations of His divinity and brilliance--while simultaneously reinforcing it. He exceeds their expectations, and explodes their paradigms, without even trying. His Holiness humbles them all, unintentionally, and in his basic straightforward simplicity, yet with profound and simple depth, exceeds the group's (and the viewers "expectations". The result has to be seen, no words can adequately describe it. It is truly remarkable and this film will stand as a lasting record of the 14th Dalai Lama, long after he is reincarnated again.
  As I said, I wept with joy, and had to suppress it throughout this film (because my weeping and suppressed sobs surprised me so much).
They were tears of joy, and of relief: to see stark reinforcement of the reverence I hold his His Holiness in.
  And they were also the tears you shed when you are laughing so much that tears stream down your face! The cosmic humor of it just overwhelmed me: like a glass of water that has water poured into it continually past overflowing! The color was beautifully saturated and the
Dalai Lama is not the only person that communicates some profound wisdom in this film. This is not a typical "journalistic documentary" nor a product of slavish Buddhist hero-worship.  I highly recommend this motion picture to everyone.