I first watched this movie with my grandmother when it first aired on tv back in 1981 and I was only a little boy. Now, I am an adult and I still feel this is probably THE BEST made for tv horror film- no doubt about it. It made such an impact on me when I was little,that even when I watch it now, the ending still gives me chills. It is THE BEST looking scarecrow in any movie I have ever seen to this day. I watch a lot of scary movies and some are just plain garbage and there are so many remakes of average movies now and they seem to never hit it right on the money. Why no one has ever thought to remake this is a good question? Now look, I am not saying this is an academy award winner or anything,BUT,for the time this came out and for a made for tv movie, come on man, it is great. It hits all the bases-good story, good plot,great characters,very suspenseful,AWESOME SCARECROW(the potato sack head is creepy as hell),always keeps you guessing with a Who done it up to the end, and the end will give you chills and make you think a little. Do yourslf a favor and watch this film. No need to worry about gore or blood or anything because it is not there,but very creepy and the music will keep you on the edge of your seat. If they ever do remake this movie for the big screen and add all the blood and gore it could make it even better if they keep the core of the movie the same. You can glam it up with Hollywood, but keep that scarecrow the same, he is creepy.If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Some things are just done right the 1st time. I really hope they remake this film one day so that more people would get the chance to see it because it never really got a lot of hype. This is a film I know you will enjoy and it always reminds me of my grandmother, who is now deceased. I recently bought a copy of this film on DVD and it still brings back memories when and where I watched it. This is a must see, so check it out and remember,"Bubba didn't do it"....or did he?  Excellent made for tv movie.