This is a great movie, it's as if Andy and Barney Fife have switched roles with deadly results.  The Barney-like character played by Ryan sees the big picture and is pragmatic and compromising.  He's wants peace and quiet in the town even if it means overlooking the letter of the law sometimes.  But he is weak.

Lancaster is the strong one, but with no concern for peace and quiet.  He's myopically focused on executing the letter of the law without any regard for the surrounding circumstances.

That said the movie is full of moral questions and I think most are portrayed very well.  Maddox is a good man, with many faults, as are the other characters.  It really makes you think about the imperfections of the world we live in and how applying the "rules" in a very strict manner doesn't always make sense.  Maddox is unwilling to make any sort of compromise until it is too late.  Still, you see his resignation & compromise at the end as a maturation and humility of his character that is endearing & human.

Of course that lasts only a brief moment as the final shootout looms and he snaps back into his executioner role even gunning down the cowardly Hurd Price in the back as he flees.  That is the most morally vexing moment of the film for me.  It was completely unnecessary, but in the heat of the battle maybe Maddox just blew it.  You're left wondering.

Anyway, the cinematography I found to be very good.  Lee J. Cobb as Bronson does a great job reflecting on his difficult, costly rise to power and giving credit to those he's defeated along the way.  He has no stomach at his age for further violence but when Maddox justifiably guns down his lifelong partner he feels he has no choice but to fight to the end.

The role of Duvall as Vernon Adams sort of plays out the theme of the movie in a miniature subplot.  He feels he has done nothing wrong and just wants to be left alone.  He is willing to shoot Maddox in the back to make hime go away.  He is a villain (though a somewhat passive one), but you can sympathize with the predicament he's in.  Ultimately his pride and poor decisions get him shot.

The heroic Maddox makes as many mistakes as the bad guys in this one.  I don't think it's moral relativism to say Maddox could have sought justice in a less violent way.  But killing, admittedly, is what he is best at, and that's how he gets the job done.  Woe unto those who don't understand the way he works!