The Good

Finally, all of Megadeth's music videos on one DVD collection! As a long time Megadeth fan, I have seen most of these videos on the home video releases that preceded this release. The transfer to DVD makes them easier to navigate, plus adds more material that was never available before. I guess you could say that disc 1 highlights the early years. Most people seem to think that Megadeth's first album Killing is My Business...and Business is Good! was a Capitol release, but that's not the case so you get nothing from that period.

The Peace Sells...But Whose Buying era is where they begin. To run down every video would be a waste, because they're all here. If they made a video for it, you're going to see it. Most of them are life performances anyway. I will touch upon some of the material that has never been released. The 1986 interview is kind of neat, because you get to see the band at their earliest. Same goes for the So Far, So Good...So What interview. The promo commercials for Rust in Peace and Countdown to Extinction are sure to take you back.

The video for "No More Mr. Nice Guy" features Mustaine all by his lonesome, intertwined with movie clips from Shocker. A couple of nuggets are thrown in from the Rust in Peace era; clips from the Clash of the Titans Tour, Mission Megadeth from MTV's Headbanger's Ball, and Megadeth's Rock the Vote spot. A Day in the Life of Hollywood is an interesting inclusion to say the least. There are a few hidden items on disc one (and two) that you're going to have to find on your own.

Disc 2 begins with material from the Youthanasia release and ends with the forgettable Risk years. There are three interviews from 1994. One revolves around the controversial cover of Youthanasia, one is about how "A Tout Le Monde" is not a suicide song, and the last is basically an lead-in for the "Reckoning Day" video. Did you know that MTV refused to air that video because they believed it was? Night of the Living Megadeth is a long sought after special that Megadeth did for MTV for Halloween in 1994. Too bad you only get one performance out of it.

Cryptic TV is part of Megadeth's electronic press kit for the Cryptic Writings release. Dave's brief appearance from The Drew Carey Show in 1998 is included, as well as a video for "Insomnia" from Risk. Now mind you, Megadeth doesn't appear in the video at all, and most of it is made up from the same clips they used in the commercials for the release. The collection concludes with two Megadeth performances from Gigantour 2005.

The Bad

Um, wait a second. Megadeth weren't on Capitol in 2005. Somehow it doesn't seem right to have the Gigantour stuff on this release. I can think of at least two more things they could have had instead of it. I believe there was a video for "Crush `Em." I know Mustaine hates the song, but they did make a video for it. They could have also tried including their live performance of "Crush `Em" they did for World Championship Wrestling when they were using as Bill Goldberg's theme. It would have been nice to have a Dave Mustaine commentary.

The Verdict

A MUST HAVE for Megadeth fans! I know you're still out there...hiding.