Even though it doesn't really bear on the quality (or lack there of) of this movie, I'd like to clear up a very common misconception about this film.
It is absolutley nothing like the novel on which it is supposedly based.  However, for some reason people who appearantly mistook the Greystoke press release for Burrough's novel continue to perpetuate the myth that this is a faithful adaption of the novel.  Even Disney's _Tarzan_ which deviated greatly from the novel itself had more simularities to it than this.
Of course this doesn't make Greystoke a bad movie.  However, it is disappointing that no film has ever told the story of Burrough's book because _Tarzan_ was not only a very good novel, it is the kind of novel that would make an incredible film if anyone would ever bother to film it rather than simply borrow its title character.
As for _Greystoke_, it's best near the begining when Tarzan is in the jungle, but it just becomes tedious once the story moves to England.
It's hard to articulate exactly what is wrong with this film.  It isn't so much that anything is wrong with it, but there is so very little good about it.  The idea of a story about a man who grew up as an ape trying to become a man sounds compelling, but on the screen it gets old fast.
Lambert and MacDowell don't help much with performances which like the film aren't really bad but aren't good either.  Lambert to often makes it obvious that he is acting and the fact that MacDowell had to be dubbed by Glenn Close doesn't help her performance.
Ralph Richardson on the other hand gives a very good performance and carries the parts of the film he has the misfortune of being in.
The ending is completely unsatisfying.  It tries for the same bittersweet quality of the novel's ending, but because the film so firmly establishes that Tarzan is out of place in the world of man, it has trouble coming to a sensible conclusion.
Hopefully, Hollywood will someday make a good version of _Tarzan_, but this isn't it.  But don't take my word for it.  Screenwriter Robert Towne was so disastified with the final film that he had his name taken of the picture. Instead the screenplay was credited P. H. Vazak, the name of Towne's dog.  Then again, maybe Vazak did write this one.