The ultimate brilliance of this feature is that it is a hybrid of comedy and drama. From Smith's customary rant about Star Wars, to a debate about the Archie comics, to an unnerving scene involving pornography, to a Jaws tribute, to plays on both racism and homosexuality this film is strikingly hilarious. But it also ranges the full spectrum of emotions, covers much of human experience and leaves the viewer feeling disgusted, angry, euphoric, and many other sensations. The dialogue is true (yes, as one reviewer said, it does sound like each character is Kevin Smith talking to Kevin Smith--but that isn't a detraction since these characters all come from the same background as Kevin Smith; they all have the same life experiences and are at the same point in life; it is only reasonable, then, that their dialect sound similiar), the acting is (especially for a Kevin Smith film) exceptional, the characters are all real and deep. 
But I don't feel the need to ramble on about this feature's merits; they've all been discussed many times. Instead I'd like to talk about its supposed faults. Much has been made about the treatment of lesbians--that not only does a heterosexual male confess his love to a lesbian, he winds converting that lesbian. Smith himself preemptively countered this objection twice. The first time was by having Jason Lee deliver this exact critique in the film. Banky, of course, is the primary comic relief; he's also the dufus; by having Banky explicity say that all any lesbian needs is some serious deep ----(fill in the blank) Smith is making us see that he too thinks its stupid to think that all lesbians will in fact love a man. That he in fact believes lesbianism is real and genuine and can't be dismissed by the magic male. Thus, the viewer is left to figure out why this particular lesbian falls in love with this particular man. The second time Smith counters this objection is by having Alyssa explain to Holden why she's with him. Pay attention to the scene; they're on a bed and it's lit in blue. You won't miss it. I'd also like to note that Holden confesses his love to Alyssa after a long deliberation and in a very dramatic moment; he didn't plan to do it, he probably didn't want to do it. He wanted to avoid the moment, but we've been in love; we know what it's like. After a while, you can't hold it in anymore.
Much has also been made about the cinematography--that Smith isn't a great visual artist. That he doesn't frame shots well and doesn't make the picture vicerally appealing. This is true; it's the fault of all Kevin Smith movies. But any viewer should know this going into the film, and therefore shouldn't be disappointed by it. If you don't know it, let me tell you. Kevin Smith doesn't paint a pretty scene. You won't walk away from his films thinking that the landscape was beautiful, or that the camera angles were awe-inspiring, or that the lighting was iventive. You will walk away from them feeling much more like you just sat through a play at your local theatre. But what's wrong with that feeling?