I've been on a bit of a Nicolas Cage binge lately and I found this one and decided to give it a shot. Warning, this review contains spoilers.

Overall, the movie was good. The idea for the plot was pretty cool - switching identities. Why this had to be done by literally switching faces and not with masks is beyond me. I figured that'd be the easier, faster and less invasive method, but what fun would that be? Let's do totally unnecessary, stupid crap to make the movie more thrilling! In a nutshell, Castor Troy (Cage) shoots government agent Sean Archer (Travolta), accidentally killing Archer's son in the process. Archer is seeking revenge and kills Troy. Needs to talk to Troy's brother Pollux regarding the location of a ticking bomb in Los Angeles, so his colleagues propose the use of a radical, experimental surgery involving literally switching faces with Troy.

Troy's body is being kept alive for the sole purpose of this face-switching surgery. How convenient. The faces of Archer and Troy are sliced off with lasers. No need to disconnect veins or nerves or anything - just slides right off like a slice of cheese. Now here's where I have a problem. Nicolas Cage and John Travolta have very different body structures: Cage has a slender face and a long nose, whereas Travolta has a more square face and a smaller nose. Their skin tones are not perfectly identical (close, but not perfect). Cage has a smaller frame and Travolta is chubby. Why are there absolutely no scars left after the laser reconnecting of the switched faces? I mean I know they just switched actors, but they are two actors who do not look alike. I don't think Cage's face would fit on Travolta's head.

Anyway, turns out Castor Troy isn't really dead and violently rouses from not a near-death vegetative state, but a brief coma. He has the same surgeon who worked on Archer attach Archer's face to Troy's gaping hole formerly known as his face. Chaos ensues and Troy (posing as Archer) goes to Archer's house. He manages to gain a considerable amount of weight in less than a day to match Archer's body shape (translation: switched actors).

Action scenes and stuff, Cage plays the role of an inmate AGAIN, and then you find out some sex buddy of Troy's had a son by him. A son that looks exactly like Archer's dead son (I think played by the same child actor). This becomes important later because Ms. Hump-n-Dump gets killed protecting Castor/Archer and tells him to care for her son. At the end of the movie, when Archer has his actual face back on, he brings this orphan home to his wife and teen daughter and says he wants to keep him. Not out of any goodness of his heart, but because the child is obviously meant to serve as a replacement for Archer's deceased son.

Is it a bad film? No, of course not. It's got some great fight scenes, cool special effects, the sound is beautiful, the actors play their roles very well...they went a little nuts with the slow-motion action scenes, but whatever. It works. I guess the whole thing with the logic behind the surgery bothered me because I do this real stupid thing called "thinking" and I know this crap would never work. Not the way they depicted it anyway. If Travolta were to become Cage, highly invasive and extensive surgery would be required, not just peeling his face like an orange. They wouldn't need to show it all, but mentioning everything that is needed would have made that part better.

So if you like Cage and/or Travolta and you don't look solely at the bad things, it's a pretty good movie. Honestly, I thought the errors were more funny than bad. They just stuck out like sore thumbs to me.