As with most MET DVDs, this one is brightly filmed; the sets are generally colorful and realistic (i.e., look appropriate to Nuremberg rather than Aunt Lizzie's broom closet or some such).  The orchestra is first class, and the singers mostly do justice to the work.

Why not five stars?  An opera DVD can compromise somewhat on the voices (as this one does), but it lives or falls on the sets, direction, and acting ability (as well as appearance) of the singers. (If you desire the best voices, look for an audio recording -- the Kubelik, the second Karajan, or the Sawallisch are good bets from the vocal/orchestra perspective.) Here's where my reservations enter:

1. Although the sets for Acts II and III are what one would expect (and accomodate the crowd scenes well within the limitations of a stage), the set for Act I is terrible.  After the magnificent overture (a little too stately from Levine, but that's his style), the curtain rises on the congregation in song.  Done right, this can be a powerful visual experience.  What the MET does is place the chorus behind a wooden screen with a single doorway (through which Eva can be seen), so the visual impact of the church scene is lost.  It's as if the viewer were a church mouse peeping out of the rector's closet.  The visual doldrom of this set contributes to what seems to be an extra long Act I (again, Levine's tempos don't help either).

2. This production suffers from the all too frequent perverse relationship between singing and acting/appearance.  The best singers (Heppner, Mattila) are the worst actors and/or the actors that appear least appropriate for the role.  (Although Heppner hardly looks like a dashing young knight, at least he gives some representation to the weight challenged among us (including me) who are underrepresented in most of the entertainment world.)  Morris looks ok in the part, but his voice shows significant signs of wear (especially in Act I; things improve, curiously, as the opera progresses).  The exceptions are Allen (Beckmesser) and Pape (Pogner) who both sing and act well.  (Pape would have been better as Sachs.)

3. Although the MET orchestra plays beautifully, there is a sluggisheness to the proceedings.  Levine prefers slow tempi; that can work in Parsifal (it does in the 1979 and 1985 broadcast performances; less so in the 1993 filmed version)and Mahler (in my view he is an underrated Mahler conductor).  However, Meistersinger requires more sparkle; you can't find that here despite the excellence of the sound.

As for comparisons, I have only seen a portion of the Australian opera production with McIntyre as Sachs; overall, the MET production is superior.