This film could have been an all right parody of Thirties Screwball Comedies like Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant, etc., but there is too much going on to sabotage this, like Joyce's increasingly aggressive narrative voices in Ulysses, which could have been an interesting enough romance, but for those intrusive voices we keep hearing in his head, which make of it something immortal.

Just so with this film. It could have been fully funny fluff, but for the subtext of Allen's personal life, possibly the actual impulse for creating this very funny but dark film.

We know the acrimonious and excruciating ending of his marriage to Mia Farrow and the incredibly cruel rupture of any relationship with his deeply beloved and only son Satchmo. Thus in this film we see throughout the theme of totalitarianism (including reference to Mussolini and the Chancellor with the little moustache, as well as the extreme totalitarianism of the hypnotist, who may himself be hypnotised under the power of his own mysterious assistant) as exercised against Mr. Allen by the Divorce Courts of Connecticut, but more importantly the theme of two people who deeply love one another to the point of becoming afraid of their own love and need for the other, having suffered great losses and deceptions and trauma in the past, and who thus can only express their deep love for one another under the safety of the deception of hypnosis.

Just as Mick Jagger sang out his need for the Nicaraguan Bianca in Miss You (if you can call that singing), this is Allen's love song for the lost Mia. See it again. View it in this way and you will see: this reading holds up. This reading makes of this film something infinitely deeper than the surface story. See it again and you will see.

Otherrwise we see a film which does not achieve its objectives. Otherwise the elements do not make sense and the center will not hold. Hunt is otherwise too old to be a recent Vassar grad, and without the Mia subtext, what's with all the drinking and smoking anyway? The hateful words between herself and Allen's character CW may be far more than riffing for this film.

The very young Charlize Theron whom the hypnotised Allen character CW walks away from may be a declaration to Mia that he never touched that young girl.

With whom did Mia leave? What man swept her away? Here we see a married Dan Akroyd character seducing the Hunt character while still married. We see Dan Akroyd as overweight as Brando in Apocalypse Now, and simply dull. What would Woody say about the man who stole Mia away?

Otherwise this is Woody's film. He really has very little to play against, and he is best when alone on screen. What does this say about his life after divorce. We really see no convincing spark with Hunt; he is far too old in this picture, which introduces a distracting element of May-December romance (especially after the irrelevant Theron interjection), or do we see here again reflections of Allen's real life with Kim(?) Previn.

Watch him work alone on screen, the long rolling shot stomping down the office hall to confront Hunt in anger, displaying his cinematographer's talent. And one of the funniest scenes in modern cinema is Allen's rooftop escape from the police station, a silent series of quotes from other great physical comedians. His frightened entry through the door echoes Richard Prior with a touch of Kramer. His crossing the roof resembles clearly, as does much in this film, Woody's deep and incomprehensible appreciation of the Bob Hope movies, an appreciation which he here makes clear and effective. His climbing the ladder is nothing but pure Chaplin. Quite a journey through a century of comedy in one quick scene, and pure genius.

Nevertheless everyone in this film feels too old, except for Theron and the secretary whose cat must get fed. It is a joy to see the great Professor Irwin Corey once more, who works hard to save the joy of this film. It is also intersting to observe wandering the office at the opening the actor who valiantly worked to salvage Jarmusch's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005QCVX">Ghost Dog - The Way of the Samurai</a>. Otherwise this is a much darker film than it appears, in which you truly will laugh and will cry.