"Will make even horror buffs flinch!" "Tamara will thrill you, turn you on, grab your throat and tear it out!"  These are the boastful blurbs proudly displayed on Tamara's front and back cover.  Normally, I pay little attention to things such as that but I heard similar comments through the grapevine and got a copy of Tamara with great anticipation.

Regrettfully, what I viewed was one of the most predictable and shoddy string of cliches I have ever had the displeasure of watching.  Being a horror collector for well over a decade and owning well past 1000 horror films, I have learned to be tolerant of all manners of cliches and film faults - even embracing many of them.  However, this film is not even enjoyable on that campy level.  You find yourself predicting every shot but secretly hoping you are wrong so you may find some enjoyment in the film.

Now, the back of the box and the other reviewers here have provided very succinct descriptions of the plot so I will not do so.  In its stead, I will offer up a few thoughts and a few questions.  Firstly, the horror films that I have most enjoyed are ones in which I am NOT certain in the first 15 minutes who will live and who will die.  Though the practice can be fun to wager on who will live and die, it does takes a lot away from the film when you are right on every account.  Is it really horror if you are not surprised?  I, and those who watched with me, were not at all shocked nor incorrect.  If you watch the film and have ever seen any film that follows standard Hollywood horror procedure, you will also not fail to predict.  Here are some other thoughts, how many times have you or your loved ones been able to engage in an epic chase through a hospital that was populated when you went in but then all the people just suddenly vanished - nurses, doctors, staff, security, other patients, and all - so that your chase could continue exciting and unimpeded?  Here's a tip: if you choose to use the abandoned hospital set piece, make it abandoned when you get there.  How likely is it that a frazzled and frightened 5'5" guidance counselor would be able to succesfully disarm and dispatch two 6' something football players who are also wielding knives and not take any collateral damage?  One is almost faintly reminded of the plethora of films where the girl in trouble gains spontaneous knowledge of numerous self-defense techniques.

Those questions aside, Tamara does have some moderately entertaining horror moments but they simply do not live up to the hype.  For example, scroll up and look at the cover again.  See that axe?  She has it in her hands all of about 4 seconds (literally) and it is then thrown to the ground.  So don't think you will see anything involving brutal axe murder or the like.  A man eating a glass bottle and another cutting off his ear (in a less entertaining manner than Resevoir Dogs) and tongue are the highlights of this otherwise dull and half-hearted "I Know What You Did Last Summer" meets "Carrie" 90's style supernatural flick.  Why this got a four-page article in Fangoria, will forever remain a mystery to this horror fan.