If you like pointless movies about helpless victim types, this might be enjoyable. Adrian Brody plays a war veteran, who was shot in the head while trying to befriend an Iraqi woman and now wanders the icy plains of America like Rambo. Why does he wander like a homeless person? Where is his family? What happened to his veteran's benefits? Stop asking questions like that if you want to get through this movie, because they will never be answered. My theory is that the only reason this man is a veteran is because the director wanted to open the film with a gory anti-war scene, lit apparently with strobe lights, that includes a field hospital that looks like it was lifted off the set of MASH complete with red paint gushing out of a man's arm socket. The movie then starts with its stream of uplifting messages: try to assist an Iraqi woman and she will shoot you in the head.

Back to the wandering of the icy plains stuff, Adrian gets picked up by a truck driver who frames him for murder, which gets him put in a mental hospital for overrated actors. The doctor, Kris Kristopherson, has devised a soothing therapy that involves strapping Adrian in a urine-stained straight jacket and locking him in a coffin. This, for reasons unknown, allows Adrian to travel into the future so that he can have sex with a little girl he met (who is an adult Keira Knightly in the future).

All throughout the film the cynical message is handled with the subtly of a brick to the skull. No one wants to be helped, everyone is hostile, everyone is helpless, and no kindness avoids an ironic punishment. Every time Adrian travels through time you are forced to endure a "flashback" montage of imagery that is fired at the retina of the audience like a jackhammer; as though the director desired to punish the audience for trying to patiently sit through this garbage.

If you are looking for a nice dreary movie about a guy trying to solve a mystery while losing his mind, I would recommend The Machinist, Fight Club, or even Enternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. If you are looking for a good film about mental hospitals, check out One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.