I'm a big fan of Las Vegas - both the city and the television show - so I was ecstatic to hear that a first-season DVD was ready for release so soon. Now I can watch it without annoying commercials and at a more convenient time.

Imagine how disappointed I was to start the second episode and hear what sounded like a terrible audio problem where I should be hearing Elvis' booming baritone!

I'm not a musically inclined person; I'm one of those people for whom music videos were invented. It's often the case that a song doesn't even reach my ears until it's paired with a great visual. It's likely I've heard Elvis' "Little Less Conversation" many times but never paid attention until it was played over the opening to this show.

To me, a show's theme song is a character in the program. It's the greeter at a casino or the warm-up band at a concert. Imagine, for example, if the theme to Green Acres had been performed by a screaming heavy metal band. Having that lumpy, draggy replacement tune open for Las Vegas when I was expecting the Elvis number had the same effect as if Josh Duhamel were replaced by lame, uninspiring Josh Hartnett in each of the episodes.

Regardless of the opening song problem, this DVD set is great for fans of the show. There are so many reasons to like this show: authentic sets, quick pacing, eye candy (for both sexes, I'm told, but catering more to us men) and Danny's cool yellow '69 Camaro. As many times as I've been to the city of Las Vegas, I can imagine its behind-the-scenes dramas and stories being similar to those in the show.

My only criticism of the show since episode one is that the scripts seem like first drafts that never go through revision. They have some real gems in them, but no one takes the time to polish them and arrange them in a quality manner. Changes in plot are manhandled like a drunk getting escorted from the blackjack tables.

I hope more attention is paid to the writing in future episodes. Maybe the studio will hire more staff so scripts don't have to be rushed into production now that the show is a success.