Kirk, Spock, McCoy...the Holy Trinity of Science Fiction.  Their relationship has been the cornerstone of a great many classic Trek episodes, which is why they will be highly regarded by Trek fans all over  the world even without the fancy schmancy special effects present in the  new incarnations.  In my opinion, this movie really hits home the bond  these characters have, both to themselves and us as well.
While I feel  "Wrath of Khan" is the best of Trek movies, "Search For  Spock" is in a dead heat with it.  The pace is slower, the mood is  darker but the humanity in it has never been better.  
In this movie,  Kirk loses probably the only things that rival his bond with Spock...his  son and his ship.  It's wrenching to see unfold.  Yet, as McCoy says in the  movie Kirk always seems to "turn death into a fighting chance to  live" and that is definitely shown here.  The movie has some of the  best visuals of any Trek movie. The characters of Chekov, Uhura, Sulu, and  Scottie are still a powerful force in the movie though their screen time is  not as great.  On a personal note, the scene of the Enterprise  self-destruct had a tremendous effect on me when I saw the movie in a  packed theatre in 1984.  Any Trek guru who says they didn't have a lump in  their throat when the blackened hulk of the Enterprise, the symbol for (at  that time) nearly 20 years of imagination and wonder, slowly arcing into  the Genesis atmosphere in a blaze of glory must have been sleeping or dead.  I remember complete and utter silence in the theatre.  It moved  people...big time.  Unfortuantely, with the Next Generation and Voyager  blowing their ships up seemingly every week, the effect has been lost.  The  ships, while as graceful and powerful as ever, for some reason never seemed  to grab me like Kirk's Enterprise did.  But, I digress...
This film shows  vividly the sacrifices that one could have to make for the friendship of  one person.  Kirk for all intents and purposes lost everything dear to him  to try and save the one man he felt closer to than anything else in the  universe.  It's almost Biblical in a sense...a simple question with  tremedously complex answer:  Would you be willing to lose everything for  someone you cared about?  
Classic Trek has always had the gift of posing  these questions and those trappings are shown once again in this movie.  "Khan" was the action movie with "Search" being the  spiritual movie.  Bravo.