Originally my intent was to catch the first few minutes of this movie, and then dismiss it and get on with my weekend. After all, how many doomsday movies can you name that didn't leave a bitter taste in your mouth at the sheer lameness of Hollywood's tear-jerking and corner-cutting? How many doomsday movies out of Hollywood manage to make you think? Thankfully, this production had the Australians on board.

The imagined cataclysm, rewritten for the new millennium, was instantly plausible, and then over in a flash, and the movie immediately cuts to the predicament of the USS Charleston's crew. They are as much on edge as the viewer, yet this is one of the stiffest scenes of the movie, and the next few minutes seem to bode very poorly for the plot. There is the temptation to prejudge the movie as a steroidal and grotesquely superficial action flick.

But the plot instantly takes a turn, the tension subsides and is put in perspective, and the movie takes off spectacularly. From then on out, "On the Beach at Night," the Walt Whitman poem whose first stanzas inspired the title of the novel, is an entirely apt metaphor for the subtleties of the story's unfolding. It moves documentary-like, with characters who face a nearly inconceivable collective dilemma, and who only gradually begin to internalize their own exceedingly lonely demise, wherein they must cut themselves off from everyone and everything they once knew.

To be sure, one can still fault the movie later on for a few more scenes that suffer from stiff and monochromatic acting. And there are a few poorly staged scenes too. But the momentary interruptions can almost be counted on one hand: Tower's chance meeting with Moira; a few crew members who can't hide their Aussie accents; Tower's mindlessly growing confidence in their mission; the apparent absence of *any* survivalist movements as they begin their trip north; the scenes of Osborne driving in a Ferrari through post-apocalypse Melbourne, without apparent concern for gun-toting carjackers; a cargo freighter clearly visible in the background when, near the end, Admiral Tower walks the cliffside. All those flaws can be quarantined to particular scenes, and do not take away from the whole.

And indeed, the plausible update to the initial premise is reprised through other plot twists -- notably, the source of the siren-like call of Anchorage, and then the fate of San Francisco. Along the way, even the bit parts turn out to be very well acted.

The movie takes more than a half an hour to wind down, and in so doing takes an enormous risk. But the cast is quiet and reserved, and this production pulls off a long adieu better than any I can remember. There are subtlely jolting touches along the way -- Melbourne radio signing off, a family embracing and tenderly remembering their best moments together, and a home, like the wider world, eternally emptied of all life.

I cannot say that I will find many opportunities to share this movie within my immediate circle. It's certainly not appropriate for kids. It is, all the same, the sort of film that sticks so thoroughly in one's mind that it'll jolt you back to those few hours whenever you chance upon it again.