I was watching G. C. Scott's version of Scrooge on AMC last night, and finding myself not liking it very much, and tried to figure out why.

Made me think about the Albert Finney version, and how much I genuinely enjoy it.

My wife introduced me to this version early in our relationship, maybe even our first Christmas together.  I had no idea it even existed until that point.
I'm not a fan of musicals in general, and had no great expectations when I sat down to watch it with her.  Rarely am I as pleasantly surprised as I was that evening.

Finney's excellent here, giving a physical aspect to his portrayal that is not as evident in other versions of the movie.  He moves like a joyless old man, talks like a joyless old man, and when he transforms on Christmas morning, he dances like an old man that's 40 years out of practice at being... joyful.

And the decision to have a young man play the role provides the added bonus of seeing how being loathsome took a toll on him physically as he aged.

No  "here's one guy playing young scrooge, now... here's a completely different guy playing joyless old scrooge, you're on your own to connect the dots".  This makes for good continuity, from a storytelling standpoint.

All secondary characters are well done, and are kept secondary.

Seeing him go around trying to collect from the various folks that owe him on Christmas eve adds a nice touch of unpleasantness to the character.  You REALLY see him as a guy in serious need of redemption.

When it comes to movies, I'm a firm believer in showing, not telling.

This version SHOWED Scrooge to be... SCROOGE, through actions and mannerisms more so than via the use of overly long monologs and strained exchanges with other characters.

He lives Bah Humbug, in other words, and doesn't have to say it over and over and over...

The musical aspect of the movie is at best fantastic, and at worst not TOO distracting.

The song I Like Life in the scene with the Ghost of Christmas Present was great fun.

The overly long "Thank You Very Much" complete with lots of dancing during the bit with the Ghost of Christmas Future... not as much fun as it went on and on,  but it served a purpose.

Yes, much like the original film version of Willy Wonka, there are aspects of this movie that come across as dated when watching it today.  Certain filming and effects choices that made sense in the time it was filmed might not have aged all that well.
The scene in Hell, as an example, has a slightly psychedelic (for want of a better word) feel to it, that just seems surreal and a little goofy at this point, but probably didn't in 1971....

Minor quibbles aside, this is a very satisfying and rewarding adaptation.