I approached this movie with a certain trepedation.  As a great fan of the Nick Hornby novel, I was somewhat concerned about the Americanisation of the novel.
How could I ever have doubted John Cusack and co!! The point is made well by Stephen Frears in his interview; moving the movie to Chicargo highlights the fact that its themes are universal.
We are taken inside the mind of Rob(John Cusack), a thirtysomething record store owner, undergoing a mini mid-life crisis.  His girlfriend has left him for the new-age hippie neighbour (Tim Robbins).  In an effort to understand why this has happened he takes the advice of "The Boss" and contacts his "all-time top five break-ups" to try to determine why they broke up with him.
Rob is not the perfect hero and his flaws are clearly shown to us.  It is this which allows the viewer to identify with Rob in a way which certainly I have done with very few movie characters.  He's a good guy who does stupid things, hurts the people he loves, acts selfishly but is ultimately likeable.
Rob's journey of self discovery is always anchored by his obsession with music and this music gives us a further insight into the mind of the main character.
Special mention must be made of the deleted scenes on the DVD version.  A couple of these are particularly fine and would have added to the narrative.  I can only think that there was a particularly vicious editing process to cut ten minutes off the running time.
The cast is truely outstanding, a real ensemble piece with particularly fine performances from Jack Black and Todd Luiso as Rob's stereotypical record shop snob employees ("I can't fire them.  I hired them three days a week but they starting coming every day. That was three years ago!) Some of the scenes in the music shop are painfully funny.
But ultimatly it's Cusacks movie. He truly is one of the most talented actors in mainstream cinema today.
Besides any movie that can namecheck Belle &amp; Sebastian and The Beta Band and features a cameo from Bruce Springsteen deserves an extra star!