I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised by this movie that I had heard nothing about. I was walking in BlockBuster looking for a movie to rent one day, and saw the title and read the movie info on the DVD jacket, and gave it a try.  And I'm glad I did.

Why? Because all too often, we pretend that racial and class issues do not exist in the Church.  We don't discuss it. We act as if it doesn't exist.  We pretend that Christian people have no issues or problems, no besetting sins or struggles.  But that is not reality.  What I liked so much about this movie is that it attempted to show the reality of Christians and how they can sometimes act against the very Gospel they are supposed to be fighting for.

Since many reviewers have already done an excellent job of giving many details of the movie, I will simply point out some of the highlights and uplifting moments.

But I have to first say that I am surprised at some of the negative reviews, which seem to me to be written by people who, as Jesus said, "strain out a gnat and swallow a camel" (Matthew 23:24).  Ok, so the movie has some cussing in it.  I didn't like that either, but that should NOT be used to argue that this is not a "Christian movie" or that it should not be watched.  I actually counted the cussing in the movie.  And I challenge anyone to compare what I've found to any other "Hollywood" movie.  What did I find?  There were 8 instances of foul language throughout the whole over 2 hour movie - EIGHT.

When was the last time you saw a Hollywood major motion picture (besides a G rated) that had only 8 cuss words?  And even some of those can be considered questionable, as all of them can be found in some of our Bible translations. People are too busy straining out a gnat, and swallowing a camel.

What Jesus meant by that saying is that people made too much of minor things, but overlooked the bigger and more important issues.  The central message of forgiveness and racial reconciliation that runs through this movie should not be overlooked for 8 cuss words used to show the reality of how SOME people do talk in the real world (yes, some pastors DO cuss, even though they should not...I've heard it myself).

Two scenes were incredibly funny.  One was when pastor Jake was feeding the homeless and talking to the media about how the mayor was kissing the butts of "self-serving corporations."  He was about to cuss, but his wife Amanda interjects with "as far as crime and unemployment are concerned..." You'll get it better when you see it.  It's hilarious!  Then, pastor Jake is sitting up on his bed with his wife watching TV, when he sees "The Rock" church commercial and gets upset that he was put in it.  He is about to cuss again, when his wife pops him with a loving elbow in the chest before he does.  Now that was classic and comedic.  Sometimes a pastor's wife has more sense than the pastors themselves, and that too reflects a reality in the real world of the Church.

One of the most powerful and uplifting scenes in this movie, despite one reviewer's crazy claim that nothing "uplifting" was in the movie, was when "Sunny" asked Tony for forgiveness (a clearly Gospel concept) for being more concerned about Tony using the word "hell" than how he was feeling after taking a gang beating to get a friend out of a gang.  Self-sacrifice for another IS uplifting and a Christian concept.

"Sunny," in the church devotional time, proceeds to wash Tony's feet while asking for forgiveness.  That action comes right out of the Bible.  And as Jake (the black, antagonistic pastor) sees this, he gets convicted for how he treated Ethan, and then goes to the front of the church to pick up the pail and towel to wash Ethan's feet (the white pastor), and both meet together at the front.  Then, Ethan proceeds to wash Jake's feet first, showing repentance and forgiveness for both of them.  This was the most powerful and uplifting scene in the whole movie, and it brought tears to my eyes.

Forgiveness and redemption are uplifting concepts that are at the heart of the Gospel message.  So I simply don't get what some people are thinking, and I wonder if they didn't watch a totally different movie (a bootleg movie with the same title? LOL).

I have to admit that at first pastor Jake's actions and words were disturbing. He's a pastor who uses some questionable foul language at times, BUT he also feeds the homeless regularly, helps men prepare for job interviews, assists his wife in helping women leave prostitution, helps young boys leave gangs and drugs, and helped support a poor  African family that barely escaped execution while fleeing their country.  Like most real pastors, he had his good and bad qualities.  It was refreshing to see both sides in this movie because it reflects reality.  But what was even better to see was his change at the end, along with Ethan's, as they reconcile their differences.

Most impressive was when Ethan decided to leave the comforts of his suburban church to live in pastor Jake's area and minister with him in his church with his wife.  We need more "changes" like that in the real world.

The overall message of this movie is thoroughly Christian, and I wish it had gotten more "press" and exposure, as this message needs to get out to more people in the church.  We need to address the issues that the movie touches on, the issues of race, discrimination, class, and emotional grudges in ministry that cause problems for the body of Christ.  WE need to deal with these things and not pretend they don't exist.  This powerful little movie CAN help us do just that.  Great job Michael W. Smith and company!  We need more films like this!