This past weekend, my family and I decided to catch the new Johnny Depp movie. When I first saw the trailers for Secret Window, I thought it was going to be just another insane, slaying movie without a plot and without any real acting talent in it. Boy was I wrong!!! The movie is based on the Stephan King novels, Secret Window and Secret Garden, and knowing this, I knew this movie was going to be a suspenseful thriller. Johnny Depp plays a well-known writer who lately is having an extreme case of writer's block. Now he just sits around in his worn, old bathrobe and talks to his dog, mostly because his wife left him about six months ago for another man. To add to his problems, a stranger from Mississippi comes knocking on his door one day and accuses Mort (Johnny Depp), of stealing his story, Secret Window. Mort becomes fed up with the stranger who calls himself Shooter (John Turturro), and ignores his accusations. But now strange things begin to happen; to Mort, and his family. Mort soon discovers that Shooter is the one reeking havoc on his life. Shooter demands that Mort fix the ending of Secret Window to the way it "should be" and to re-publish it under Shooter's name. He wants the new ending to be that the character kills his wife and buries her in the garden, under the attic's secret window. Mort still refuses to listen to Shooter, and the deadly "accidents" keep on happening. Eventually Mort understands the real reason why Shooter is stalking him, and why the ending of Secret Window needs to be changed. I'm not going to give away the ending because I must say it is one of the MOST unexpected and thrilling finales I have ever witnessed! The repeated saying , "the only thing that matters is the ending", is a major element throughout this movie.
  What really made this movie so believable and terrifying was the acting. Johnny Depp's character makes us all jump whenever he opens a closet to discover something or wakes up from his daily nap to find terror right in front of him. And also John Turturro's "Shooter" make's us all think twice before opening the door. This horror film gets an A+ from my family and me! Secret Window will keep you on the edge of your seat the entire time and will leave you breathless with an ending to 'die' for!