I'm constantly amazed by how those closest to the movie business--directors, producers, and writers--so often misunderstand just what makes a movie good.  At times they seem childishly simple-minded:  "Well if people liked X, we'll give them a movie with even more of X in it!"  Such is the case with director Tobe Hooper's follow-up to "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" (1974).  While there are commendable features to "Eaten Alive" (1976),  the film's excesses doom it to idiocy.  "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" is considered a classic by many film buffs, and I think not without reason.  "Chainsaw," for all its shocking violence, is almost gore-free.  Although Hooper presents scenes of a girl being hung on a meat hook and a cripple being chainsawed in a wheelchair, we don't actually see these things.  The amount of blood in the film is negligible:  the horror is almost wholly inferred.  (Such is also the case with "Halloween.")  But in "Eaten Alive" we have killings by pitchfork, scythe, and crocodile, the bloodletting always quite explicit.  In "Chainsaw," narrative unity is foregone for the purpose of nightmarish imagery (and the movie is indeed very much like a nightmare).  "Eaten Alive," in contrast, attempts to have a plot--which, given the content of the movie, has no chance to be anything but foolish.  And not only does the plot constantly remind us of the foolishness of the story, but much of the material is nothing but boring filler between scenes of violence.  And finally, "Chainsaw" contained no scenes of sex or nudity, but "Eaten Alive" presents us first with a whorehouse, then with sex in a hotel, and finally with a hotel guest strutting around topless.  Dumb, dumb, dumb.
 The success of "Eaten Alive" is in its almost autistic Southern mise-en-sc&egrave;ne.  Hooper creates a hotel buried so deeply in a Louisiana swamp that one cannot see more than fifteen feet from the porch of the hotel.  This is a world unto itself.  Neville Brand, as the crazed hotel proprietor, is good, but he is mostly wasted.  The film focuses instead on the plot rather than its madman.