Watched both movies, and I have to say, I prefer the Dominion (the original prequel) to The Beginning by Renny Harlin.  I think the powers that be did not like the Dominion, because they wanted the movie to contain the "stuff" that sells; sex, violence (gore), and special effects.  So they hired Renny Harlin, and got all three.  However, I think Dominion was an overall better movie.  It was a more deep movie.  Not real deep, but deeper than the Beginning.  It was a little slower, but seemed to make more sense than the Harlin version.  The character of the priest, Father Merrin, was more developed in Dominion.  It made sense as to how he later became the older priest that performs an exorcism on Reagan in the Exorcist movie. At the end of the movie, the tribal leader tells him he (Fr. Merrin) is now the enemy of the devil, and the devil will pursue and fight him again.  There also seemed to be more affection between the two priests than there was in Harlin's version (in Harlin's version, the two priests did not really like each other very much, which did not help the story at all).  In Dominion, the priests were not trying to trick or deceive each other, and both seemed to genuinely care about each other, and about trying to help everyone else in the village. Although I thought the actress playing the doctor in Harlin's movie did a better job of acting, I thought her role in this movie was predictable and silly.  Harlin just had to have her get possessed by the devil, and spew profanities at Father Merrin ("what's the matter, Merrin, don't you want to  ---- me anymore?"--predictable, unnecessary to the plot, and insulting to the intelligence of the audience!)  She also had the usual "tortured" expression and the obligatory "boil infested" face.  When she did the "spider" move, I almost started to laugh...how stupid!  Is this move something that the devil always does while possessing a female?  Why couldn't the doctor's character be sufficient, as a strong, intelligent, caring woman who is trying to make a difference in the world?  No, she has to be a possessed, vulgar, sex-warped devil woman!  Come on!  Anyway, watch them both and judge for yourself, but I prefer a movie to be more psychologically scarey than in your face gore scarey, and something that has a little more depth to it than just the usual sex, violence, profanity movie that Hollywood seems to think we all want.  As usual, I firmly believe that you should not take my opinion as "gospel", and watch them both and make up your own mind.  Peace and happy viewing....