The Velveteen Rabbit or How Toys Become Real, by Margery Williams Bianco

 This is a children's book about a stuffed rabbit. This rabbit is given to a boy on Christmas morning, and he loves it very much for all of two hours. Then when his aunts and uncles arrive and he gets to open more presents, he promptly passes it by.

 The other more expensive mechanical toys mock it for being filled with only sawdust and not gears or springs. But an old horse tells the rabbit that over time he has seen mechanical toys come and go; they receive lots of play, until their mechanism breaks down, that is, and then they are tossed aside, to be replaced by the newest and greatest thing.

 And then one night, when the boy can't find the china dog with which he is accustomed to sleep, the nurse picks the rabbit at random and gives it to the boy, that he'll finally go to sleep. Suddenly, the rabbit's world is turned around; the boy takes him everywhere and plays with him as if he were a real rabbit, getting the toy dirty and ragged. But the rabbit doesn't care; these wounds and scars are really proof of the child's affections! And when he meets some real rabbits, he tells them that he too is real; once can tell because the boy said so himself!

 But sadly, one night the boy doesn't want to play; he comes down with scarlet fever. He clutches the rabbit close to him for days; the rabbit providing a small amount of comfort to the boy in this troubling time. And when the boy goes to sleep, the rabbit whispers in his ear that he will one day get better.

 In time, the boy recovers. And what's more, he's getting sent to the seaside! But all is not gumdrops and happiness; this is really a nefarious plot to burn all of the toys and sheets and everything in the nursery to kill off the scarlet infection. The boy discovers this beforehand, but his anger is assuaged by a new shiny rabbit given to replace his old thoroughly used and ragged one. All is well in his world, but not in the rabbit's.

 I thought this short story was horrifically depressing! It's supposed to be all uplifting and such since the rabbit becomes real in the end, but instead I took away how callous and flighty people are. The boy flits from toy to toy without a care in the world! He loves the rabbit. He's got more gifts, so the rabbit is forgotten. He loves the rabbit again, but only because the china dog is missing. The rabbit is replaced by another in order to be burned and is again forgotten! I kind of want to smack this boy!

 And then in the end, it's all supposedly made "better" because the rabbit is made real. And one day, when he comes upon the boy playing with some new toys, the boy thinks about how that real rabbit looks much like the toy he once had. What kind of crap is that?! This should've ended with the bunny growing fangs and attacking the boy a la Monty Python and The Holy Grail!

 I, for one, am very disappointed. All this story does for me is serve to highlight how someone can mean everything to you, and in their eyes, you are merely something to be used for momentary happiness, and then discarded without another thought.

For more reviews like this one, please check out my profile!