I know what some of you might be thinking: "Four Stars? Is he crazy? The movie was horrible/good/o.k., not worth Four Stars!"

To you I say: "You are entitled to your opinion."

This is a fun movie for anyone who's ever wanted a modern space opera, even if certain parts of the film certainly do not stand on their own very well. A scene here, a scene there... they seem strange, isolated, or out of place in the large context of the movie at times. I promise, though, that this film really is more than the sum of it's parts.

I understand the uneasy feeling the slightly disjointed nature of the movie's beginning can cause, and I can see why it might turn some people away, but for me the movie really began to come together after the first 45 minutes. I really, at that point, began to feel the level that the director was attempting to work on: this is a universe of adventure, where confidence and strength can give you power, where fear and uncertainty make you weak, and where the laws of physics take second rank behind the laws of dramatic movement.

Make no mistake, it's not Shakespeare and some people just can't get into the right frame of mind to enjoy this film... but if you do get there, you certainly will not be dissapointed.

The characters here fight on frigid planets, hunt soldiers in a bombed-out desert civilization's capital, do battle in draconian prisons, and defy empires... all with style and raw power, depending on what the situation demands.

An entire universe, opened like the doorway into a too-bright afternoon, is revealed and hinted at in the movie... this movie is NOT Pitch Black, but if you look at it from the right angle you can see Pitch Black's setting as the agrophobic cousin of this universe.

Conan in a space opera (paying homage in a way that The Scorpion King didn't quite manage, but with many of the same shared elements; born of a savage people, deadly in battle, one man in a huge world, destined for greatness...) is as good a way as any to describe it, whether you mean the old Conan movie or the original tales.

I give it Four Stars, and I know I'll be buying it.