John Carpenter's "The Thing," is, unchallenged, my favorite film of all time. This movie portrays horror at a new level, getting back to the real roots from which it was based, and that is the novella "Who Goes There?" by John Campbell.

The film start Kurt Russell as MacReady, the helicopter pilot that plays the hero role. It also features Wilford Brimley as Dr. Blair, the first of the twelve men to realize the absolute potential of the enemy.

After a strange incident at Outpost #31 that leaves two Norwegians dead, the American crew sends two men, Mac and Copper, to investigate. When they find the Norwegian camp, it has been decimated, and all that remains is the remains of some unknown being. They bring it back to the base, and the creature thaws out, coming to life... and bringing destruction.

The main focus of this movie is the close quarters, the fact that there is no escape, and that the alien can assimilate any of the humans. The paranoia is unrivaled, leaving a real feeling of "who is really a man, and who is actually the THING?" The truly disturbing part is how these men, who have been friends since their arrival, are suddenly pitted against each other, not caring who lives or dies.

Ennio Morricone's (The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly; The Untouchables) musical score is beautiful, absolutely crafting the feeling that is shown throughout the film. His sound is very clear and is recognized with that of "The Untouchables."

Rob Bottin's make up and models are amazing, and are still considered realistic to this day. The image he creates is perfect, and it was his idea that the Thing has millions of forms, that it should turn into the beings that it has assimilated across the universe.

The special features are also a plus. The short documentary "Terror Takes Shape" is a really great informative bit for any "The Thing" fan. The original trailer and deleted scenes are also very cool.

Carpenter does not let up on the suspense at all. There is never a dull moment, and the amount of mysteries that are left after the film ends leaves the viewer coming up with his own answers. Definately the best Carpenter picture, and some of the greatest acting from both Russell and Brimley, not to forget a great performance by Donald Moffat (Clear and Present Danger).