Like most of you mildly miserable folks, I enjoy a healthy serving of shadenfreude when watching a show about handsome, successful Hollywood types. I like... scratch that... I feel unbridled glee when one of these beautiful people get hit with a shovelful of trouble and a cannonball in the gut of comeuppance. Sorry to say, you won't experience this nasty little feeling when watching this splendid half-hour of comedy (with just a lightest sprinkling of drama). It is darn near impossible to root against the five main leads as they navigate their way through the sun-soaked, egomaniacal LA mayhem.

The series has a dreamy, low-key flow that centers around the impossibly good-looking Vinnie Chase, a charming young actor on the rise who surrounds himself with a retinue of pals relocated from Queens, NY.  Entourage boasts the most entertaining comedic TV duo since Jason Bateman and David Garrison went head to head in "It's Your Move." Vincent's older brother and C-list actor, the cocky and sublimely insecure Johnny Drama (Kevin Dillon in his best role ever) is rarely seen without sidekick Turtle, the chubby yet confident gofer/chauffer/schemer. Everyone on the planet has met or hung out with a Turtle-kinda-guy, but probably none as impishly appealing.

The effortless badinage between these two (and the entire group) is hilarious, realistic and not too overboard with f-bombs and requisite, hackneyed  guy talk. The exquisite Jeremy Piven plays fast-talking, &uuml;ber-agent Ari Gold who is equally hysterical with his complete lack of caring or self-censoring and is creating a new language for hipsters today - "Let's hug it out." -  in the vein of "Swingers." The scenes of unctuous Ari terrorizing his underlings at work are masterful, but the real fun is watching him at home trying to cut deals with his equally combative wife.

The grounded Kevin Connolly plays Vince's best friend and manager who keeps it real and is the only one looking for an honest relationship, a nice contrast to the one-nighters by the others. The characters have their faults, but because they rarely take themselves too seriously and realize just how lucky they are to be living in mansions and hanging with the vapid pretty people, you hope this odd yet functional family unit always comes out on top.

The writing, directing and editing is top-notch - subtle, wacky and always touching - and again, if I didn't make my point before, simply hilarious. One nitpick: the show goes a bit overboard with product placement, but hey, that's Hollywood, and they actually make light of it when Vinnie goes on the Jimmy Kimmel show. So all is forgiven.  I just watched all of Season Two in one sitting (Thank you HBO for the free promotional weekend!) and it is as good, if not better, than the first.