I have been a big fan of the Flintstones since watching their episodes first-run in the early 60's on ABC when I was a small child and have been an avid watcher since.  Happily, this DVD set does not disappoint!  Not only does it include all 28 episodes from the first season, but it also includes some vintage commercials that were run during that first season(ones that I vaguely remember), as well as the original, original pilot when it was still called "The Flagstones."  The other extras are worth seeing as well, including the history of "The Flintstones."

Taking "The Honeymooners" premise and putting it in a stone-age setting, "The Flintstones" pokes fun at suburban life in the early 1960's.  Even though one reviewer complained that they didn't remember Fred's behavior being so boorish, nor of him & Barney fighting so much or lying to their wives, just remember that this cartoon series was originally geared toward ADULTS (especially considering that three of their earliest sponsors were One-A-Day, Alka-Seltzer and Winston Cigarettes!).  This also harkened back to an earlier time when life was simpler and people could laugh at themselves more easily.  And, no, the "adult" plot lines did not affect me as a kid -- I just enjoyed watching the goofy-looking characters, clever sight gags, stone-age contraptions and slapstick humor!

Even though the drawings may look a bit cruder than those in the later seasons, the animation itself was more fluid and stylized, and less stilted than in the later seasons, and the timing, as always, was impeccable.  Notice Fred's overly expressive face, his and Barney's eyes bugging out upon discovering they have been drafted to the army for a 3-year term in "The Astra'Nuts," the tuba player in the orchestra pit in "The Flintstones Flyer," Perry Gunnite's "strut" in "Love Letters on the Rocks," or Left-Foot Charlie's "dancing" with Wilma in "The Golf Champion."  And who of us could forget Fred & the 4 cops -- with Barney at the piano -- singing the William Tell rendition of "Happy Anniversary" in "The Hot Piano"?

Probably the biggest thrill for me -- much to the dismay of other reviewers -- was seeing the ORIGINAL ("Rise and Shine" instrumental) leader and trailer that was used for the first 2 seasons after more than 40 years!  (For those of you who grew up with the syndicated versions of "The Flintstones," the "Meet the Flintstones" theme actually didn't appear until Season 3!)  I hadn't seen nor heard the original instrumental theme since I was 7 years old, but I vividly remembered seeing all the lights in the neighborhood turning back on when Fred was banging on the door and yelling "WIL-MA!!"  But whenever I mentioned there being a different leader and trailer than "Meet the Flintstones," people looked at me as if I were crazy!  What a kick it was to see it again after all these years -- and feeling vindicated at the same time!

I Yabba-Dabba-Do recommend buying this DVD set.  You'll have a "gay old time"!