I've always enjoyed Clint Eastwood as an actor. His early westerns and the Dirty Harry films, while never critically acclaimed, were fine entertainment.

Now that he's matured, Eastwood has not only improved as an actor, but has become a force behind the camera as well. He seems to have developed the much deeper understanding of life that usually, but not always, comes with age. His work in "Mystic River" really opened my eyes to his talent as a director.

I'm not given to gushing reviews of movies or most anything else for that matter. However, once in a while something comes along that makes me sit up, take notice and think about the state of our society.

This film touches upon many facets of 21st century culture. Racism, our seemingly insatiable penchant for violence, playing the system and, of course, the controversial climax of the movie (which I won't give away).

No character in the film was immune from the spotlight of contemporary criticism. From a Catholic priest using the "F" word, to an IQ challenged gym creature using the "N" word. From a boxer who fought outside the rules to a family of welfare cheats who played them. Our weaknesses as a society were present in all of their sordid forms and in abundance.

Oddly, I see reviews here claiming that the characters weren't developed. What difference does it make why Dunn's daughter wanted no part of him? The fact is that she didn't and it's obviously why he gravitates towards Maggie.

Why did Maggie run away from her family? Now really. How hard is that to figure out? Would you want to live among that group of trailer trash welfare cheats? Anyone with even an ounce of pride and courage would take a job cleaning toilets before remaining in that environment.

Maggie's true self is revealed in the hospital room when she's asked by her family to sign over her assets. At that instant she showed the same courage that she showed in the ring and the same courage she showed when she struck out on her own rather than live like the rest of her family. Could it have been any clearer?

Sometimes it's more important for us to use our imaginations and minds than to just be spoon-fed every detail. To Eastwood's credit, he's let us do just that and doesn't insult our intelligence.

Even the secondary characters were obvious as to who they were. To me, they seemed just the people who would actually gravitate to a place like the Hit Pit.

Not surprisingly, given who was cast for in the major roles, the acting was superb. Morgan Freeman did something that I never thought I'd see. He actually outdid his performance in Shawshank Redemption. At least I thought so.

Honestly, until seeing this movie, I knew little of Hilary Swank other than her name. My loss. I intend to remedy that by picking up a selection of her other films.

Eastwood? What can be said of him that hasn't already been said? At times he's almost a caricature of himself. In his case, that's not meant to be an insult. He's the ultimate hard-ass with (sometimes) the soft heart.

Saying that this was Eastwood's finest acting/directing/scoring is, obviously, throwing down the gauntlet (no pun intended) before every one of his fans. His acting and directing have touched so many genres that it's nearly impossible to define his crowning achievements. Suffice it to say that I've never seen him better than he was here.

While I can understand our different tastes and preferances, I'm totally perplexed as to how anyone could have voted for The Aviator as the best film of 2004.

While it's not always the case, the 2004 Oscar WAS awarded to the best film of 2004...Million Dollar Baby.