No matter what the "critics" say, I love this movie and always will.  The dancing and music are superb, although "Satan's Alley" is hideous -- from the costumes to the music to the choreography. 
John Travolta is one of my all-time favorite actors and SNF one of my all time favorite films. While Travolta is clearly not a trained Broadway Dancer, he holds his own due to slick photographic angles that enhance his moves. Additionally, he is one heck of an actor! 
Finola Hughes is a beautiful and talented dancer -- she is absolutely breathtaking to behold. I can't help but wonder where she is today and what she is doing.  She plays the Karen Gorney (Stephanie Mangano) type of woman, albeit more vain, arrogant, and affluent.  The man who plays Mark (her lover who is shown briefly when Travolta shows up at her apartment building unexpectedly) resembles a Lab Rat/Count Dracula.
Cynthia Rhodes is a wonderful dancer and singer and displays quite a bit of acting range given the limitations of her character.  Rhodes portrays the "downtrodden female" stuck on Travolta.  Her role mimics that of Donna Pescow's in "Saturday Night Fever"  Like Pescow, she is long suffering and permits Travolta to walk all over her.
I got a huge kick out of Frank Stallone.  I don't know why, but he makes me laugh just watching him!  I love the line where Travolta tells Rhodes that Stallone looks like a demented fighter pilot! It is hilarious because that is exactly what Stallone looks like to me!
I also enjoyed the person who played the role of the Director of Satan's Alley -- he is such a bundle of nerves and arrogance!  What a Goober!  He smoked so much, I can't help but wonder about his lungs today!
OK, I could have done without viewing all the smoking, but it IS a fact that many dancers and performers smoke for weight control and this movie was filmed at a time when cigarette use was ubiquitous and freely portrayed in film.  But I could not help but feel choked when all the tobacco smoke was flying around the dancers who were obviously working aerobically.  
All this said, why do I love this movie?  The Bee Gees songs, the dancing (especially that of Finola Hughes), the  glamour and glitz, John Travolta, and that demented fighter pilot, Frank Stallone.
No doubt this is a shallow sequel to "Saturday Night Fever" --  I would have liked to know what happened to some of the main characters in SNF. 
But despite all the flaws and kitsch, I love this movie! 
I love the dancing and the music and continue to view this movie again and again!