This is a nifty little low budget, black-and-white directorial debut from currently-on-fire Christopher Nolan. Nolan, who is British, purportedly filmed 'Following' in London over the span of a year due to time, budget, and casting constraints. The results are impressive.

I was initially attracted to the film's eerie premise of a man who follows random people out of innocent and earnest interest. One can fathom the possibilities stemming from this single concept. Fortunately, Nolan, who also wrote the story, crafts a solid plot around several intriguing scenarios, then cuts and splices them up chronologically for good measure, a tactic he would further refine and employ in 'Memento', two years after this picture. Chronological displacement is, in fact, the way a lot of older films were told: they usually started at the end and then unfolded through a character's recollection.

'Following' is more evocative of classic cinema than suggestive of its creator's future of big budget action flicks like 'The Dark Knight' and, most recently, 'Inception'. Here, Nolan instead brings a fresh twist to Hitchcock and film noir, in a winning combination of old and new. The black and white footage is sumptuous, stark, elegant and spooky; apartments are bathed in white daylight and dark nightclubs bleed ominous shadows. The subtle music score by David Julyan alternates between jittery keyboards and ponderous orchestral washes. It is in such great style that two particularly quirky characters exist: Jeremy Theolbold as "the young man" and Alex Haw as "Cobb" (both unknowns, to American audiences at least I presume). Fortunately Nolan has picked some great talent, especially the suave, cunning Cobb. Theobold's "young man" is skillfully played as someone who unwittingly gets involved over their head. But this isn't an actor's film. It's a director's film, where the production elements led by an intruiging story and finally topped with deft performences all come together very precisely.

Nolan meshes our senses of time and space, heart and mind until a finale that makes perfect, devastating sense once it arrives. But for all of the film's successes and strokes of creativity, it's not perfect. For such a clever idea, the ending is still a slight letdown, as if the philosophical questions raised by our voyeuristic interest in the lives of strangers weren't worth answering, or really addressing in the first place for that matter. Nolan opts to wrap everything up in a much more convential box. But that's a minor complaint agaisnt a memorable film that is definitely something to be seen.

This DVD is nice, with a cover that closely resembles the original poster advertisment (really lost on major studios when putting out DVDs), and some extras including a commentary track by Nolan himself. Presented in full-frame, which I have not yet independently verified whether that was the originally intended aspect ratio, but given the otherwise caringly crafted high quality package, I'm assuming so.

In summary, a great debut from a now-important filmmaker carving a distinctive filmmography. Not quite a hint of things to come, but a masterstoke tribute to what came before.