I used to like watching this series early on, when it had stories in it, before the endless sad futility of the Lana Lang romance wore me out... Thought I'd give this last season a try, see if it all came to anything. And what I found was a travesty. Whole episodes seem to consist of characters pretentiously declaiming abstract profundities like, "In order to live in the present, I need to let go of the past, dad. That means I have to say goodbye to you." It seems as if the whole story is taking place on some level of vapid commentary. They forgot to invent action - actual plotlines - that would convey these trite messages and make them fresh. It's like a clinic in what Henry James said not to do when he advised authors to show, not tell. The finale goes even farther, with Clark realizing that he shouldn't have let go of the past after all, because although his strength comes from Krypton, his heroic traits come from the Kent family farm. Only this message isn't dramatized -- nothing happens that would make the viewer realize it as lived truth -- instead it is rammed down our throats in the form of...words. We don't need characters saying things like,"A hero can only be as strong as his enemies, so that's why I, Lex Luthor, am here." That is supposed to be the job of commentators and critics, who unearth such insights from a good story. But these modern protagonists insist on bloviating about their own significance. The rest of the story is either really bad science fiction or really generic soap opera, and the performances are the same. Some talented actors are dragged down by the lines they must speak. The splendid Erica Durance is turned into a sappy one-dimensional poster girl for faithfulness and fairy tale marriage; the mischievous Alison Mack barely rises above her Spielberg-like bedtime story scene; and it's hard to tell if Tom Welling can act, but he comes off as irretrievably stiff and not too bright, and doesn't look facially anything like any Superman we've ever seen in comics. If you like watching people make speeches about the deep meaning of life instead of embodying it, you'll love Smallville Season 10. All moral, no story.