Single criticism: Martin Short should have been used onstage as well.  And now:

The Ol' back-bone Tappers have done it again!  Oh my...self, whoever cannot get a chuckle out of this one needs therapy (or a pulse check;i.e, you probably are dead...clinically).  Once more Guest, Mckean, and Shearer (or their pontentially "musical powers" identities: Tufnel, St. Hubbins, and Smalls) have made an all time comedic classic.  One could say I learned of Tap too late; that is unless you figure 2004 as being appropriate.  I bought this DVD expecting, like all sequels, something less than stellar.  What I got out of it was pure grandeur, another anthem to those who love to rock...while laughing their asses off simultaneously.  A very pleasurable aspect of the film was how good Christopher Guest is on guitar, he can sure play a wicked solo or two.  This is a film which in my mind surpasses Spinal Tap in terms of overall entertainment; it is nowhere near as fresh and groundbreaking in terms of the laugh-meter that This is Spinal Tap was, but it is amazing to watch 3 well known comics duke it out on stage and put together a fatastic performance.  Mckean's interspersed, typical smart-ass lines make the movie a delight and, again, Guest plays a mean guitar!!!  Favorite part of the film?  Tough question...Perhaps St. Hubbins talking about his stipend, "You see a stipend is... money.  But because it's such a small amount...they call it a stipend."  ahaha.  Another moment of hilarity by way of Smalls, after the opening descent from the rafters: "Does anybody else's balls hurt?!!"  I didn't see Guest or Mckean break a smile, but that must have been so off-beat as to make them want to laugh.  On-stage, Guest essentially becomes a rock'n'roll iconic herculean man-god, his antics (customary head banging w/ fist thumping) at the beginning of the Diva song broke me up.  The, shall we say, vertically limited gentlman's (this guy was on Seinfeld?) onstage dancing in the arabic attire was great, Guest playing the clarinet only made it better.  Before last, the "Potato Wear," a clothes shop for itchy Irish clothing was another quick one coming from Mckean.  Ok, now lastly, the funniest part about this film was how well their peformance turned out and how very few mistakes were made in fretting the instruments (apart from Mckean's strings being dubbed out).

"The question is: How much more black could it be? And the answer is: Well none...none more black." - Nigel Tufnel