I can't pretend to be a 'bonafide' Cars fan, so to speak, but I can say that I definitely liked their early lp recordings. With this in mind, I recently purchased this dvd and was pleased that I did. The concert recording (in Germany) is of a reasonable sound quality. Although the concert (videoed) is rather short, the choice of songs is great. I always preferred the more stylish voice of bassist Benjamin Orr's to that of the more eclectic style of Ric Ocasek's, and it is a pity that we don't hear him sing on more songs. I remember the first time I heard the Cars here in Australia way back in 1978 and thought they were actually another band - Be Bop Deluxe, a British rock band of the time with lead vocalist Bill Nelson. I went out and bought the Cars first album on the strength of my liking their songs that received considerable airplay on a community radio station of the time. That first album was a brilliant beginning for the band, and like most bands, unfortunately, the sequels to that effort somewhat paled in comparison. That's not to say that the Cars subsequent albums weren't good, they were, it's just that they didn't quite hit the mark like that first effort did. Over the years, I continued to pay attention to the bands releases, but it wasn't until living and working in Korea 6 years ago that I bought a compilation album of the bands material that resurrected my interest in them. Unfortunately then, I read the news (on the cd liner notes) of the sad and rather early death of singer/bassist Benjamin Orr. It quite shocked me I must admit. Therefore, on obtaining the dvd decently, seeing the bonus interview of the band with Ben only months before his death, was touching. The interview was done quite well, with all members of the band contributing; perhaps Elliot Easton and Dave Robinson more than the others. It was apparent in the interview how sick poor Ben was and I think that affected the general tone of respect and gentle good humour that permeated throughout it. The closing comments from all band members was quite emotional in a way, as they all paid respect to one another, with Ben's comments carrying a little more poignancy and melancholy considering his fate. This dvd is a worthwhile memorabilia of one of the late '70's/ early/mid '80's best pop/new wave rock bands in concert, and a touching farewell to one of it's best singers.