I learned about this film from a local Greek Orthodox monk, who is also a film fan.
  The plot has been overused -- a man makes a critical error in judgement, during war time, which supposedly causes another to lose his life. The man, the next time we see him, is disheveled and has less than pristine hygiene habits. He also is an annoying, half crazed, odd kind of monk among other monks in a less than beautiful monastery. Obviously, a poor monastery.
  We learn that the monk is also reputedly someone others consider a "healer" and they (Orthodox believers even in then post-WW II Russia. It's unclear or perhaps I missed any reference to the regime in power. It would seem to be a relatively lose period, certainly nothing within the realm of Stalinist Russia, since religion and religionists were persecuted by that mad man.
  The monk does seemingly perform some miraculous healing experiences for those who sought him out; the monastery's abbot moves in with the monk in a decision which suggests he has something to learn from this man, even though he, too, sometimes wonders about the man's sanity. There is an incident where the monk causes the abbot some true pain, at least emotionally. In the end, the miracle happens for this man who thought, erroneously, that he'd committed a heinous crime. Another "outcome" appears for which the monk would have never thought possible.
  The film works on an emotional level, or did, for me, because it becomes painful, in a way, to watch this man's behavior. He is clearly filled with false pride, that he cannot forgive himself even though religiously, there is evidence that of course, God would have forgiven him. He is released, once he learns the truth, and that is poignant and beautiful. The man and the monastery would seem to disappear in mist and fog afterwards. The milieu of the monastery within the Soviet system is bleak, dark, held together by baling wire in a way. It appears to be dismal in a way most Americans, I think, have never experienced.
  I liked the film. Even though the plot wasn't original, nor was the spin of the character, I was grateful for the look into the Orthodox community. The same director directed the film "The Monastery," which I have yet to watch. "Before The Rain" also gave some glimpses into an Orthodox Church and community, I beleive, in post-Tito Yugoslavia. I'd recommend that film, also if a person wanted to learn more about that country and it's religion.