The legend of the drunken master originally came out in hong kong many years ago.  Jackie Chan has obviously followed in the steps of bruce lee, appearing in films  as an extra or goon as he did in "enter the dragon".

However, since jackie chang , like bruce lee wasn't known here in the u.s. it took a while for this martial arts star to be imported to the u.s.. but eventually chang has been

recognized as one of the best martial arts star in the world.

This movie "legend of the drunken" is a very funny, and explosive action packed film.  the story revolves, arounds a conspiracy of corruption by members of the british government to smuggle and steal chinese artifacts out of  the country. the members would later sell these goods for a large sum of money.

Chang plays wong fie hung , a doctor/psycisian who uses his style of fighting known as drunken boxing to fight. everyone loves wong, except his father, who sees  him as a disgrace to the family, because of his blantantly drunkeness.

In fact, wong's father and wong scenes together are absolute hilarious. in fact, there are a couple of scenes, where both father and son, both fight with one another. Eventually, through coincedence wong finds out about the  smuggling operation and he and he and his friends plan to put a stop to it.

The action is very intense and almost takes the form of a cartoon with wong drinking and gettting drunk then using the alchohol and mixing it with fire to often burn his enemies.

The last bits near the end feature a great match between wong and the boss of the operation.

The acting is equally as well, obviously it's an ode to the old fashioned ways of the east,

with the strict relations Wong has with his Dad and tradition.

Some of the stunts though are incredibly dangerous and make you wonder, just how they filmed it with no getting killed such as the sequences where Wong fights

a gang of men with axes.

There is a dvd for the movie too, however both the vhs and DVD have an English  dubbed version of the film which can be both funny and mediocre at time with the  usual American jokes thrown in to replace the Asian dialogue.

The Dvd comes loaded with extra features, including  and interview with Jackie Chang, and several

trailers for many of Chang's movies.

I am actually going to watch it again, because it's the type of film where there is so  much action and it goes by so fast it's hard to keep track of what's going on, but

check out "Legend of the Drunken Master"