[Contains minor spoiler information]

The second Inu-Yasha movie is very entertaining, though slightly inferior to that of the first movie.  If you haven't seen Inu-Yasha before, you're going to be a bit confused.  Very little is done to introduce the characters or explain their relationship to one another or the sacred jewel.  For the hard-core fans though, it's well above average.

There are plenty of great moments.  The photo booth scene, and hot springs scene, towards the beginning are very funny, for example.  Kagura, Naraku's assistant demon, is her usual tempremental self, and she steals just about every scene she is in.  This is a bit of a problem as she's not the primary antagonist in the movie.  Visually her primary offensive spells "dance of blades" and "dance of the dragon" look much better here than on the television program also.

But the plot has so many logic-holes, so many inconsistencies, that even the fact that this is "fantasy" cannot excuse them.  Here are just a few.  Naraku has a jewel shard in his back for no clear reason (this is not the case in the series) and when he "dies" Kagome mentions they couldn't find the shard, which again doesn't make much sense, since Kagome has the power to sense and locate shards.  Why would Kagura want to help in a quest to retrieve objects that would release/unleash a creature hostile to the passage of time?  She stands to lose as much as anyone.  And what *did* Kaguya promise her?  It's left unsaid, though it's implied that Kagura wants to lose her physical form and be transformed into pure wind.  Isn't it a bit too convenient that Kohaku, Sango's younger brother, would have one of the five quest objects?  He says "I guard it" but that is odd since he doesn't own or guard anything on the series (perhaps, just perhaps, Naraku is *making* him say things).  Or that Kikyo, Inu-Yashas ex-girlfriend, would come across a village slain by demons and get her hands on the Stone Bowl of Budda?  And why would Kikyo give the bowl to Kagura, no questions asked?  Kikyo *might* stand to benefit from a world frozen in time, but then she turns around and helps Inu-Yasha with a sacred arrow only a short time later.  And where the hey was Sesshomaru during all this?  He had as much to lose any anyone else, and he took a pass at becoming involved?  It's too much to believe if you ask me.  There are also unanswered questions about the relationship between the demon Kaguya and the "princess of the moon" whom she absorbed to gain immortality - if that essence was pulled in Moroku's wind tunnel, how can Kagome be saying later that her wish was granted and the "princess returned to the moon"?  She's have been sucked into the void every bit as much as Kaguya was.  And in the end credits you see Hosho throwing the celestial robe into Mount Fugi ... why?  He only needed to destroy the robe so long as Kaguya was around.  Considering it was a "sacred family heirloom" that he was most reluctant to part with why the hey would he be chucking it into Mount Fuji then?

Frankly, the movie's plot isn't even on a par with some of series episodes, such as the five part "dark priestess" saga in the third season.

There is only one new villain in the movie, Kaguya.  While she has her moments she is not as interesting, or frightening, as the primary villain in the first movie (and he wasn't too scary to begin with).  She also has no allies, so you know that nothing bad can happen to her until the very end of the movie.

Another disappointment:  several characters from the television show, who also have parts in the first movie, are either absent or virtually absent from the second movie, including Sesshomaru Jaken and Rin, Kikyo's sister Kaede, and Kagome's family.

And speaking of Kagome, isn't she a just little shrill in this one?  The "Kagome Decibal Factor" (KDF) is just about off the scale in this movie!  For the uninitiated Kagome and Inu-Yasha have a habit of screaming each others names when the other is in some kind of distress (kind of like Mulder and Scully did in the X-Files).  In this movie Kagome does it around 40 times (!), many of them so drawn out you'll be hitting the mute button.  In some of the situations where she does this it seems to be a cop out - rather than translating a full sentence of Japanese they just plugged in yet another "INU-YASHAAAAAAAAAA!" coming out of her mouth.

The line art, special footage, promotions, are structured much like that found in the first movie, but again are not quite as polished or entertaining.