It's hard to believe that it's been 13 years since 1996's "That Thing You Do!" starring Tom Hanks, Liv Tyler and Johnathon Schaech, whose career certainly has not gone in the direction I would've predicted for him back then.  Somehow he's ended up doing slasher films like this one--and if you're buying "Laid to Rest" to see him, you will be greatly disappointed.  He's not bad in his role--and he can do a decent Southern accent--but the actor's only onscreen for all of 3 minutes.  I won't give away what happens to his character, but since this is a "slasher shocker", well, don't think too hard trying to figure it out.  It just made me sad to see Schaech, who still looks mighty fine, in a movie like this.

I confess I'm not a slasher film fan.  I do like the original "Halloween" with former scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis as well as her other scary flicks from back then.  But since I haven't watched any current slasher movies, I thought I would check out "Laid to Rest", which is described as having "the most inventive death scenes in years".  And this is true.  There's a heckuva lot of bloody, gory violence going on this film--enough to turn anyone's stomach.  So if that's what you're interested in seeing, then this flick's definitely for you.

As for the story of "Laid to Rest", it's somewhat intriguing with a young girl waking up inside a casket with a head injury and no memory of her identity.  And for some mysterious reason, there's a crazy killer after her, and, of course, she's in an isolated rural area.  If this film doesn't make you want to move to a safe big city, I don't know what will.  But I have no desire to spend a weekend in the country after watching this movie, which is somewhat predictable.  Our heroine and a few friends move to a new location, where someone gets killed, then they go to another place.  More blood and gore and it continues on in this vicious cycle.

I'm giving "Laid to Rest" two stars because of two reasons.  First, I really liked actor Kevin Gage as Tucker, who befriends the young girl.  He's a good actor who gives a much better performance than I would ever expect to find in such a film.  And, second, there is a certain sick and twisted fascination in seeing what horrible situation will happen next and who will survive until the very end.  That's the whole point of slasher flicks--I think.  And "Laid to Rest" does this well enough.  Is it as good as the original "Halloween"?  Hell no.  But if you're looking for a mindless 90 minutes of graphic carnage with some decent gory special effects, maybe you'll get a kick out of "Laid to Rest".