I hope I can write this review to recommend "The Thirteenth Floor" without giving the story away completely.
  Movies about alternate time tracks and realities have strangely become quite popular in the past couple of years, though science fiction writers have written about parallel worlds since at least the 1930's. I once wrote a term paper for a science fiction class on this subject and enjoyed the reading immensely! My favorite author in this genre was the late Phillip K. Dick. Two of his novels about parallel worlds were  "The Man In The High Castle Castle" and "Ubik." Ironically Dick achieved some overdue fame as he was dying in 1982 when Hollywood released the well-done "Blade Runner," based on one of his future-world novels.
  Developments in 20th century science have proven that time is in a sense an illusion, which parallels Eastern mysticism quite well. It is proveable that also in a sense events in the past, present, and future are going on at the same time. The fine, highly readable book, "Parallel Universes," by Fred Alan Wolf, uses quantum physics to prove that in fact the future influences the present. While I feel that we should stay grounded in our present reality, it's also good for mind expansion to ponder the illusions of life. "The Thirteenth Floor" is the best movie I've seen that shows that time is an illusion, and offers questions and metaphors for various mysteries of existence, such as time, and "who am I."
  "The Thirteenth Floor" is ostensibly about a company that uses computers to travel to the past, to a simulated alternate reality, where the main characters play roles similar or different to their roles in what the movie portrays as "present" time. The computer program that creates the alternate world actually downloads the personality of the character in present time to the past reality, and there is a strange merger of personalities, the inner world of the human, vs. the outer world he lives in.
  Unfortunately there is a certain amount of violence in TTF, and in fact the murder of one of the scientists who created the world-generating computers is ostensibly the "real" mystery that drives the action. Yet from the beginning the mysteries of what is the "real" world, who are the "real" characters, combined with appropriate music and darkness in every scene until the last one, create many levels of mystery and intrigue. As the truth of what is really going on, which is the "real" world, is revealed to the protagonists, the illusion of what we think of as reality actually deepens! Again, I saw this realization of the illusion of reality to be an excellent metaphor for what is called "maya" in Eastern mysticism. The fact that computers (science) are the reality-generators is ironic to say the least!
  Unlike "The Matrix," which features a very dreary "real" world behind the more pleasant reality we live in, "The Thirteenth Floor" ends in a message of hope, as the "real" reality turns out to be a very positive future.
  I've read some reviews about the poor acting in the movie, and I strongly beg to differ. The 4 or 5 main actors do an outstanding job with a very abstract script. Except for the police detective all the main characters play different roles/aspects of the same character very well. I also became a (big) fan of the beautiful Gretchen Mol, whom I had never seen in a movie previously.