When I was younger a friend told me about a monster that came from outer space and hunted humans, taking their skulls as trophies and moving with the greatest agility and speed. The monster he was talking about (of course) was the inimitable and lethal "Predator." And that's when I decided to rent the 1987 release of "Predator" on VHS for the first time - and all I can say is that I was dumbfounded - and am still mightily impressed today...

Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Dutch, a hardened special-ops commander who has experienced much violence and conflict during  his life. This time Dutch is called by the CIA to rescue hostages held by viscious guerrillas in Central America. His team are inserted deep behind enemy lines to accomplish their mission. However, once the mission is completed, Dutch discovers that the whole hostage story was a cover-up and is outraged by this turn  of events. However, it is not Dutch's hurt ego or anger that becomes his biggest problem. It seems that there is some kind of creature hunting him and his men, and one by one his team of experts are picked off by something that is clearly not of this Earth. Dutch will have to use all of his past experiences, military training and wit to survive this seemingly hopeless situation...will he be victorious, or will this hunter claim his skull as his ultimate prize? The storyline is enthralling and certainly creates interest. There's no fooling around and John McTiernan presents a believable and direct story that ensures plenty of action and drama. 10/10 for the storyline!

Another interesting thing about "Predator" is the relationships and conflicts that exist between Dutch and his team members. For example, Mac and Dylan don't get along at all while Billy and Dutch seem to understand and appreciate each other. This makes the audience believe that this team really is experienced and that they are familiar with each other. It also presents their individual traits and personalities with great effect. This also adds to the realism, drama and impact of the film as a whole and so Predator gets another 10/10 for its clever structure and sub-plots.

Now the Predator himself is amazing: he's tall, silent, tough as s*** and armed to the teeth with some incredible otherworldly technology. He's more than a worthy opponent for Dutch and his crew, and every aspect of the Predator is interesting, terrifying and awe-inspiring. We also see through the eyes of the Predator, we "become him" during certain periods. We see how he sees, in a thermal vision which makes spotting prey all the easier. We also get a glance at his weapons, such as his wristblades and shoulder cannon. His active camoflauge from his shift suit does not make him invisible, but it does cause light to bend around him, making him nearly undetectable. The medikit he uses contains various medical devices, but it seems he prefers to suture and burn his wounds shut in order to continue in his hunt. The attention to detail on the Predator character is simply phenomenal, and we actually learn alot about this violent yet intelligent invader through this film. McTiernan has developed and presented believable and interesting, multi-dimensional, complex characters; and the Predator is certainly unsurpassed as a character in the genre of Sci-Fi. It's just total genius, what can I say?

The fight scenes are fueled with action and energy, and the showdown between Dutch and the Predator is epic to say the very least. The film is not overly complex in its approach, but this is perfect since "Predator" is a no-holes-barred, to-the-point and brilliant film that totally rips other Sci-Fi Action movies to luminous green shreds.

Overall, "Predator" gets a pure platinum 97% in my opinion. It's just great and a movie you will watch over and over again. It's a fascinating, action-packed, enthralling, exciting and wonderful Sci-Fi flick. This movie is unquestionably a must for all fans of the Sci-Fi genre. This movie has it all and even the special-effects are impressive, even today. So what are you doing reading this? Go rent or buy "Predator," right now, otherwise I may have to take your skull as MY trophy...