I must admit from the onset that I am not one to sit down and write reviews here.  But after reading some of the reviews, I feel compelled to write one of "The Contender."

Others have done an excellent job of providing a plot summary, so I will spare you the repetition.  I want to address some of the reviews that have bashed the movie for being "totally unrealistic" or "biased," especially those who explicitly state their "liberal" leanings.

First, "The Contender" makes no claims to be "objective," nor should the movie be judged by a "realisitic" litmus test.  Yes, the movie is polemical.  It makes no bones about its leanings.  Personally, I don't think this should be grounds for dismissing the movie.  I found the movie incredibly refreshing for 1) providing a critical, and cutting, progressive critique of the "culture wars" that dominate so much of our public, political discourse; 2) by not being limited by the demands of being "realistic," "The Contender" gives us a glimpse of the possibility of public discourse, grounded in the SPIRIT of the US Constitution and representative democracy.  Too often political thrillers limit themselves to the intrigue of negotiating and manipulating the strings of bureaucratic power within the terms of that power.  By contrast, "The Contender" asks "what if?"  That is, what would it look like for someone to act on an ethical basis?  What would it mean to stand on principle?

When I first watched "The Contender," I didn't really know the details of the movie, and was frankly looking for something that would be fun to watch.  I love the genre of political thrillers, but I also don't expect much beyond the demands of the genre (Patterson and Grisham have really dominated how political thrillers are brought to the screen).  Yet, "The Contender" went beyond the genre.  Instead of the well-(market)tested version of the political thriller, it felt more like an inquiry into the principles of our Constitutional democracy that stands in stark contrast to how our democracy is currently practiced.  It was refreshing to see a film of possibility that resisted a cynical representation of political life or that simply reconfirmed the easy message that "the government is corrupt."

In addition, the film is beautifully filmed.  It's quiet when it should be quiet.  The angles and the juxtapositions of scenes are masterful.

If you're looking for a "realistic" political thriller, then, admittedly, "The Contender" is not for you.  You'll find yourself frustrated by the film's principles.  But if you approach the film as a reflection upon the principles of a Constitutional democracy (from a decidedly progressive position), then you just might find yourself intrigued and thoughtful.

I say this as someone who is a committed lefty.  I think that our democracy is limited and a representational democracy is not the end of democracy...that the realm of democratic participation needs to be extended.  I have worked for years as an activist, organizer, and critic of the Right's domination of poltical life, unbridled capitalism, and the rise of Empire in the post-Cold War world.  I am by no means someone who believes the system is working.  All the more my surprise to find such possibility in this little film.