Blazing Saddles, a 1974 comedy western spoof, is a wonderful romp by the one and only Mel Brooks himself. With this film, he made THE best film of his career and also, THE best Western Parody ever made for the silver screen. It combines elements of the old west with parodies of prejudices that the old west had and tries to capture the old west the way that it was in reality and ignores all the stereotypes of all the other western films past and present.

The whole film opens with men helping to build a railroad track with a couple of Black men riding a hand rail car down the track and falling into quicksand. The white men pull the hand rail car out and ignore the Black men who were using it. Later on, the small town of Rock Ridge is under attack, under the orders of attorney general Hedley Lamarr (Harvey Korman, may he rest in peace) who wants to build a railroad through the small town, by desperados attacking the citizens and terrorizing the town, which results in the town sheriff getting shot and after a serious meeting in the town church, they send a letter to the governor William J. Le Petomane (Mel Brooks), and putting his attorney general Hedley Lamarr in charge of finding a suitable sheriff, Lamarr chooses Bart (Cleavon Little, may he also rest in peace), a Black man about to be hung for what he did earlier in the film to the foreman Taggert (Slim Pickens, may he also rest in peace), as the new Rock Ridge sheriff. This automatically rises controversy as the governor thinks that he is crazy for appointing a Black man as sheriff because the town of Rock Ridge is all Caucasian and everybody has the last name of Johnson. Lamarr convinces the governor that appointing him will mark him in history and ensure him of a strong political future where he could wind up as president of the USA and that it's a wonderful idea. Bart immediately is named the new Rock Ridge sheriff and shocks the entire town when he enters mainly because he is Black and after a comedic performance where he goes into his office, the citizens immediately have a town meeting to write a letter to the governor that they are offended by this choice of sheriff for their town. Bart meets The Waco Kid (Gene Wilder)in his cell and the two form a strong bond of friendship, though initially, the Waco Kid can't believe he is seeing a Black man as sheriff. Bart helps Waco sober up and he becomes his deputy. Bart slowly wins the admiration of the people after defeating the "more of a what than a who" Mongo(Alex Karras)and locking him up, but Mongo and Bart also become friendly later on. Lamarr, in desperation, decides to appoint the lady of the town and entertainer Lily Von Shtupp (Madeline Khan, may she also rest in peace)to try and trick Bart into a compromising position, which also fails. Later on, the citizens of the town discover what the attorney general is really up to and what he really wants to do with their small town, and band together with Bart and Waco to beat them. Of course, I will not reveal too much as I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen this wonderful and terrific western parody as of yet.

Mel Brooks delivers THE very best film of his career and also, THE best western parody and also, the funniest western film ever made. Blazing Saddles is a knee slapping and foot stompingly funny movie. No pet rock goes unturned in this wickedly funny western spoof that still holds up well after over three decades. This film is still as funny as heck and no matter how many times that this film is watched, it is still a funny and entertaining romp that never gets dull no matter how many times that it is watched. Brooks plays three roles in the film. He plays the governor William J. Le Petomane, and also, a couple of cameos as the chief of the Sioux Indian Nation(when Bart tells The Waco Kid his story about him and his family and how the Indian chief let them go though they were darker than they were)and as one of the toughs of Hedley Lamarr(he wears sunglasses and a bomber jacket). Brooks does a fantastic job capturing this film and all of it's wicked glory and he does keep you entertained from the beginning to the very end. It never gets dull and the entertainment factor never goes stale.

The screenplay was written by Brooks, Richard Pryor(may he also rest in peace), Norman Steinberg and Al Uger, that was based on a short story called Tex-X by Andrew Bergman, who also was one of the screenplay's co-writers. The theme song was sung by Frankie Laine (may he also rest in peace), who didn't even know that the song was the theme for a western parody film and actually sang it as if it were going to be a legitimate western film. The whip sounds were overdubbed later on after Laine recorded his vocals on the track in one take. After Laine was finished singing on the track, Brooks didn't have the heart to tell Laine that the song was the theme for a western parody film.

Richard Pryor originally wanted to play the sheriff, but Warner Brothers refused to fund the film if Pryor was going to play it. Pryor was a mighty controversial performer back in the day and he was also a heavy drug addict at the time, which also worried them. Cleavon Little wound up getting the role. Pryor did co-write the screenplay as he wrote much of the dialogue spoofing the racial prejudices of the old west and also created the character of Mongo.

Gig Young (may he also rest in peace) was originally going to play The Waco Kid, but he was a known alcoholic at the time and this also worried Warner Brothers. The role went to Gene Wilder, who was originally cast as Hedley Lamarr, but Wilder refused and insisted on playing The Waco Kid instead. Harvey Korman was cast as Hedley Lamarr.

Lily Von Shtupp is actually a parody of German diva Marlene Dietrich(may she also rest in peace).

Alongside Tex-X, Black Bart and Purple Sage were also working titles that Warner Brothers rejected as titles for the film. Brooks concocted the name Blazing Saddles while taking a shower.

The film was also nominated for four Academy Awards: Best Music, Best Original Song, Best Supporting Actress(Madeline Khan)and Best Film Editing. It also received two BAFTA nominations for Best Newcomer (Cleavon Little) and Best Screenplay. It won the Writer's Guild Award for it's screenplay.

Mel Brooks also wanted John Wayne(may he also rest in peace) to appear in the film in a cameo role, but after reading the script, John Wayne, though he said to Brooks that he loved the script, turned it down because he felt that it would ruin his family image at the time, but said that he would be one of the first in line to see the film when the film premiered.

This 30th anniversary DVD is chock full of wonderful things.

PROS: The movie looks even more colorful. The audio sounds great and the soundtrack sounds crisp. The special features include a Mel Brooks commentary discussing certain scenes. It has also deleted scenes. It also has a cast/crew reunion documentary called "Back In The Saddle" and the final two things are an intimate portrait of Madeline Khan and the pilot Black Bart, that was spun-off from the movie. The pilot starred Louis Gossett Jr in the title role and a pre-Barney Miller Steve Landesburg as his deputy. The pilot was shown only once on CBS, but there were no other episodes made after the pilot was shown. After seeing the pilot, I knew why this never developed into a regular series. The pilot wasn't very good, IMHO.

CONS: None really to speak of, except that there could have been a memorial segment dedicated to the memory of Cleavon Little, who died in 1992, twelve years before this 30th Anniversary DVD was released.

Still, the film is on DVD and that is something to smile about.

I watched this movie on HBO when I was nine years old, although I wasn't supposed to watch this as a result of this film being rated R. Over the years, I still continued to watch this movie religiously whenever it showed up on TV. Again, this film still holds up well after over three decades after it's initial theatrical release as it is still as funny as heck and never gets dull. There were many other western comedies and spoofs made in it's wake like Lust In The Dust, Adios Amigos (that starred Richard Pryor) and Silverado, but Blazing Saddles is a film that can't be undone or topped by any other parody of the western film or comedy with a western theme. Those films were good as well, but Blazing Saddles is still THE best of them all.

The film initially received mixed reviews, but over time, it has been reappraised by most of the critics who wrote negative reviews about this film when they discovered the hidden greatness that the film had. The film was a commercial success, though not a blockbuster.

Overall, Blazing Saddles is wickedly funny western parody film that is not only the funniest western film ever made, but also, THE best western parody film ever made. No fans of comedy or westerns should be without this film in their DVD library.