This film contains as thoughtful a treatment as the medium allows of many key military issues, including: how does a chain of command work; how should subordinates respond to questionable orders by superiors; what is loyalty and to whom should it be given, and why.  And like any great movie, it requires the viewer to think, to be drawn in, and to re-evaluate something the viewer had before taken for granted.

This film has special meaning for me because of an incident in my own Navy career.  I viewed the film, along with my shipmates, at OCS.  However, I didn't fully comprehend its messages until years later and after I had been through an experience onboard that bore some resemblance to the central dilemma posed by the movie.  I was ordered by a superior officer to perform an act against regulations by underpaying people going TAD.  Those of you who were onboard FFG-12 in 1989 know the superior officer I'm talking about -- the one who was a TAR.  Anyhow, I had the facts on my side (see JFTR U4177) and I stood my ground but I did not have the sophistication at the time to understand that my duty encompassed more than just blindly saying "I'm right."  I had a further duty to try to ameliorate the situation and provide alternatives.  Maybe that was too much to ask from a 24-year old Ensign, but like Caine's  Lt. Maryk, I could have been more aggressive in doing the right thing while not disobeying an order.

I do have to mention one major problem about this movie.  Although it is quite realistic of many aspects of the Navy and shipboard life, there is one glaring falsity.  At the end of the movie, Ensign Keith is promoted the Ltjg. and is shown on another ship as an OOD.  That's nutty.  Every one of the mutinous officers would never go to sea again, and their careers would effectively be over.  What captain in the world would want as a subordinate an officer that had been tried for mutiny, even if he'd been acquitted?  What military superstructure would permit such a person to billet on a ship?  It just wouldn't happen.