Giselle is the first ballet I ever saw in the theater and I have subsequently seen it many more times on stage. As well, I have more performances on video/DVD/Blu-ray of Giselle than of any other ballet. Along with the Bournonville Sylphide, Giselle is the greatest and most magical of all romantic ballets and in a good performance it is an overwhelming artistic and emotional experience.

This production is by far the worst I have ever seen, and, at best, the performances are adequate. I thought the decor for act one was the nadir, and then the curtain rose on an even more appalling Act II. These hideous sets and drab, dull and dreary costumes need to be immortalized in the Blu-ray process?  This is the ugliest Giselle production I've ever seen.

Additionally, this is one of the most disrespectful productions of Giselle I know with the cuts beginning right in the overture and continuing throughout the performance. These folk feel free not only to excise parts of Adam's score, but 'adapt' and add to it as well.

What they do here to the Peasant Pas is enough to entirely disqualify this lousy production from any serious consideration.  Here we get a limp and disorganized pas de six instead, in which one of the anonymous girls gets an extended solo that is, to put it mildly, not a usual feature of Giselle productions. Perhaps the people who put this thing together thought that six underwhelming dancers would equal out to the two good ones generally to be found in this absolutely wonderful segment of the ballet?

Cojacaru is, of course, a good dancer and a better actor, but she is undisciplined, lacking in a smooth, chiseled line, in dignity, and in authority. She moves fast, but with little poise and with jerky arm movements much of the time, particularly in the fast turns. She often isn't graceful. The other dancers are featureless - this is all her, and 'Mr. Cojacaru's' show, apparently.

This is a highly naturalistic production, which has its good points as it plays to the strengths of the two leads (it gets tiresome fast - for instance the excessive detail work of Giselle's mother and, particularly, the extremely irritating PC spin they attach to the Duchess with her comic book snobbery). What is bad about naturalism carried to this extreme in a work like Giselle is that it robs the work of almost all its mythic qualities, which in turn explains the total lack of impact which characterizes this performance. I wasn't moved once, I didn't cry once and I was bored a lot.

The dancers might have registered better if the disrespect for the work did not extend to extra choreography provided by somebody or other. People who feel free to snip and paste at will, transform an exquisite scene designed to showcase the youth and vitality of two vibrant kids into a dreary bore for six faceless non entities, and plop it all down in front of such ghastly decor feel no qualms about 'improving' Coralli, Perot and Petipa. What riduculous hubris.  All the choreographic changes are for the worse.

I sometimes fast forward through the entrance of the aristocrats (in all the other, better Giselle performances out there), but found myself fast forwarding through most of this performance.

There are many fine performances of Giselle but this sure isn't one of them.