I must say that, after anticipating this box set since I first heard about it six months ago, I am incredibly disappointed.  Revieiwing the material first hand, I seriously have to wodner why it was delayed twice over this.  Let's start with our customary description: It's the complete first season fo the 1984 Marvel/Sunbow production of "The TransFormers" on DVD.  With that out of the way, I can further explain why I feel so let down by this release.
1.  When you claim to have remastered a film or TV show, please actually do it the whole way.  I cannot stress this enough.  For all the hullabaloo they went through to show the changes (see disc 4), I have to wonder why, in particular, they only fixed that space bridge scene (with the beams showing through) in only some of the episodes, especially as it was STOCK FOOTAGE.  Even the mylar cuts they said were present in the broadcasts and claimed to have edited were inconsequential at best, and not even in the VHS releases at worst.  Overall I did like the slightly less faded look they gave the series, but that was more than expected given the format used (DVD).
2.  Never ever make the final product worse than the source material.  I canot stress this enough either.  There are plenty of backwards transformations, "sliding" scenes that didn't "slide" before.  In particular the construction of the 2 new Dinobots, there are 2 scenes that just aren't right.  I think I even saw colors that were colored right change to the wrong color in this version.  That seems to throw out the theory that was working against my arguement of "why weren't any color errors fixed?" which is a shame.
3.  Changed sounds really get on my nerves.  The intro has extra sounds that make no sense inserted when the 3 jets transform and land.  When Starscream opens fire on Ironhide near the end of "Divide and Conquer" the sound was changed from his standard laser to a cheesy toy gun like pulsing sound.  These little "edits" are all over the 3 discs in varying degrees of unexplainedness.
4.  The 4th disc is of varying consistency at best.  Some things they say they changed in the remastered versions on the previous 3 discs DO NOT ACTUALLY APPEAR.  Other than that, I really did enjoy the 4th disc with all the extras.  Makes me wish they would ahev put half that time into the TF:TM bonus section.
In conclusion, if you are a casual fan, you'll probably not find much to object to.  I mean, it is The TransFormers isn't it?  And on DVD no less!  But to more discriminating fans, who know the series inside and out and how it should have been done, you'll be disappointed, possibly angry, in varying degrees.  If this was an early release problem, then my limited apologies to Rhino.  It really should have been right the first time, honestly, but it would be nice to hear that these issues are being legitimately investigated and corrected.
Just a final plea to the producers: DO SEASON 2 RIGHT PLEASE!!