I can't believe how many negative reviews there are about this movie.  I do admit the movie has very little to do with the book.  Actually both are extremely different.  So if you have read The Wives of Bath and expect the movie to reflect the book, you will be disappointed.  However this is by far the BEST movie I have ever seen.  It is one of those movies that stays with you, it can consume you if you allow it to. There are so more many themes represented in this movie than the obivoius, a girl in love with a girl.  The most overlooked theme is the main theme: how a mother's unconditional love affects a daughter.  Other themes include: passion, fear, obsession, stereotypes, finding identity, defiance, loyalty, rejection, and vunerability.  Its about how far a human will go for love.  If you like drama and are a fan of shakespearian movies, then you will love this movie.  The acting was the most incredible I've ever seen.  Piper Perablo is awesome.  She can go from a quite soft whisper to a bold loud character on the brink of sanity with minitues in this movie.  The ending is predictable, and movie wouldn't have been half as good without it.  Although it is sad, it is the only way the movie could have ended.  Paulie had to break the mold, you see, she couldn't become Miss Vaughn.  Miss Vaughn (the headmistress) represents Paulie's fate, and Paulie just can't except that.  Paulie doesn't go insane at the end, she just goes to far in love, and that is what this movie is about: love, passion, and going to far in love and how it can affect two lovers. This movie touched me on so many emotional levels.  Anyone who loves a woman should see this movie.  The movies takes away the "girl/girl relationship taboo."  It is def. not a lesbian flick, it's a movie about love, and supports the notion that it doesn't matter what the gender is of the person you love...be who you are, and never compromise that, even if it takes everything away from you.  It is a movie for those that can appreciate a good independent film, not those who are into the run of the mill mainstream movies.  Lost and Delirious creates its own category, and it truly sets itself apart.  I absolutely recommend it.