I have been a fan of the vampire sub-genre in general and of Blade in particular (e.g. in his appearances in the Marvel comic books) ever since I was a kid.  This movie served to more or less re-invent the character, at least from the point of view of the comic book fandom (e.g. the Marvel  character wasn't even a vampire to begin with!).  Although this fact  usually turns-off most purists, I for one am very impressed with this  revised treatment which in my opinion breathes much-needed life to an  otherwise "degenerating" (e.g. in terms of fan interest)  character.
Wesley Snipes' grim and gritty portrayal of Blade was  perfectly pulled off and I can think of no other actor who can be more fit  for this semi-tragic role.  His mastery of the Brazilian hard styles was  both very evident and apt.  Stephen Dorff's acting was likewise very  convincing as, well, the resident "bad boy" among (very, very)  bad boys.  Ditto for Kris Kristofferson and the rest (including Traci  Lords' brief cameo).
This disc is packed with tons of bonus features,  most notable for me of which is an alternate ending which is very  interesting (mouth-watering actually, making you wish for a sequel  especially after seeing the final scenes), although still inferior/somewhat  lame even when juxtaposed against the final product.  My only complaint is  the House of Erebus slide section; I found it very difficult to read the  text which is unfortunate because the info on the various branches of the  vampire family was very interesting.  Too bad also that there wasn't any  time to develop this further ala C.Thomas Howell's Kindred series; it would  have been interesting to see the interaction/conflicts between the vampire  sub-families.  I hope they end up doing either a sequel or, better yet, a  tv series/spin-off.
This is a very well-done quasi-horror/quasi-martial  arts flick which is well worth its price...especially with the added  bells and whistles.  I feel that other DVDs  should at least have some of these features built in them (e.g. featurettes  other than the standard fare of theatrical trailers and interactive  menus!)