Man thing is yet another baby to come to life from the House of ideas Marvel Comics.
Im just as suprised as you to find it on the Shelves since it was never to be heard
of before then... At least from me.

Man Thing a character i know little about but what i knew from the first four issues of
the 1997 comics revamping is that this "Man-Thing" was a very interesting concept. (Indian
dies, screaming revenge and curses for wrongful death and abusing nature.. Enter Man Thing.

This movie was never released in theaters i hear it went straight to the Sci-Fi channel 1st
(litterally), but let me tell you it has Marvel Quality all over it. Its not cheap the Actors
and story, the Look of the Man Thing are Very Credible. It was all done "THE MARVEL WAY" from
the beggining from the pages of the comic book flipping as in Spider Man, Hulk, Or Daredevil,
so was the same Quality of film with this release. It bears the Marvel stamp no Doubt.
This movie does not have SCI-fI, Or Low Budget Written anywhere on it, ill repeat it was all
done the Marvel Way. Very Very Professional in casting Feel and look, even the storyline. OF
cause you can only Evolve so much to run around the central Figure. But Hey. I like the film a
lot actually because it was not done in haste or low budget, i mean what can you expect from a
"Hero/Being" called the Man Thing in the first place. The tone was set great the Swamp was
really great looking the trees where all Knotty, Man Thing really looked Great actually some of
the CGI was all done keeping the Marvel name in the same breath as Greatness in that respect.

The Movie no how matter how disjointed even the concept may seem. worked. It was never a rea-
lly popular comic book compared to others that where brought to life. Go Figure. I am giving it
three stars. there is only so much you can do with the Man Thing, a swamp, some mysticism, a
curious new sherrif a heroine and some antagonistic back-wood hicks.

The only thing i dont get is who on earth would mention Man Thing as a viable investment or
one of equity to earn profit from. Its Not! Even the comic book was canceled after the first year
1974-1975 brought back 1979-1981 stopped and brought back in 1997 for a short series. I mean
they
took man thing to a meeting and it got approved for millions? All the way from idea-to script to
scouting filming locations for Man Thing? Wow. At least the film was not Dissapointing check it
out. Personally i would not have been interested enough to pay 8 dollars to see it at the movies
based on the premise. But you know something it was great : What sucked? Well what sucked is that
there
is
NOT
ONE Special
Feature whatsoever,not even a Trailer. Interested? i would defintitely reccommend checking it out.