I am glad to see that this film has been given positive reviews.  True, the film is now a few years old, but it will withstand the test of time for any X-files fan out there.  
To me, the movie now seems just like an extension of the story of these two characters that for me, redefined how good television can be.  With the movie, we get more of what we want with the X-Files.  Since the first two seasons have been released on DVD, I've bought both of them, and the third is soon to come.  Seeing the episodes all together and in order makes me like this movie a hundred time more, just because of the story that Chris Carter has woven throughout these eight incredible seasons.  
Some reviews below this have critisized this film for being 'less than it should have been' and 'just one big long episode, nothing more'.  That first statement I disagree with completely.  The second is totally true.  But, it is a big long episode with cinematic scope.  On the DVD commentary, Chris Carter even mentioned that this film WAS the pivotol, huge episode of the X-Files.  It just has what I think is good cinematic appeal.  
The story continues the story that the television show set up through the first four seasons.  It continues on to uncover all new truths to the government conspiracy surrounding the existence and plans of extraterrestrial life.  In the end, we see enough pieces to realize just how big it is.  
Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny play their roles brilliantly.  These two roles, in my opinion, are the best two ever written for television and film together.  These two actors fall into their parts so well, they create two totally different and very beleivable characters.  The chemistry between these two characters is portrayed so well that you might even feel like Fox Mulder and Dana Scully are two real people.  This film and the television show portrays a deep love between these two people, not filled with sex or too much physical attraction, but by overwhelming respect for one another.  It is so nice to see this for a change, instead of the regular stuff we see in most movies.  I think Duchovny and Anderson portray their respect for each other very realistically; in other words they don't end up in bed together the same night that they kiss each other on the forhead!  Hats off to these two actors who really did and still do their job so well.  
The X-Files had an image to maintain for its fans when making this film.  Obviously this is Chris Carter's story, but it had to live up to what the fans would expect.  In my opinion, the movie did.  When I first went to it in theaters, I was 14, and didn't love the show as much as I do now.  I still was a major fan.  When I saw it and it was finished, I remember thinking that it was really good.  Now, when I see it nestled between two seasons, when I see it as part of the whole big picture, I absolutely love it.  When it was in theaters, I remember thinking that they could have done something more with it.  Now I wouldn't want it changed for anything.  
This is a different kind of Cinema that we have ever seen before.  This film fits in exactly with the television show, only now it is written as one big episode that is started and finished in two hours, while still leaving it hanging to continue season 6.  It is filmed with style and the same craft that the show is filmed with, only now with a widescreen cinematic scope.  The story and the characters, as I said before, are something we don't get in many movies today.  This film is fresh, thrilling, thought provoking, believable, and an all around good time.  As I said before, it is even better now, seeing what has happened since.  
To say a few things about the television show, now in season 8.  I was skeptical about these new characters that have come on the show.  Let me just say that I am more than happy with what Chris Carter has done since David Duchovny wanted less time on the show.  Also, we are seeing Gillian Anderson more tired acting and different than she was in the beginning of this series.  This might be because she wants OFF, but she is the only one who can decide that.  She is still playing her role brilliantly, and the change in her is just what the show needed, and exactly what would be expected to happen to anyone who has suffered such a loss.  Good job Mr. Carter and Ms. Anderson for keeping the show real!  The new characters are great as well, and wonderful editions to the show.  Well, one last thing to say.  The last episode that was aired, 'THIS IS NOT HAPPENING', was incredible.  It reminded me how special and different this show really is.  
And Mr. Carter, doing more films after season 9 would be a really good thing!  I think it would be best if the films, unless they become a series in themselves, should stay focused on the 'big picture', like Fight the Future was.  The conspiracy ones are the most interesting I think, and provide the most thought.  More movies about the conspiracy, plus maybe a few 'stand alones' would be great!  Thank you everyone involved with the X-Files for creating something this good.  This show is what makes television worth watching.