Beautiful Natalie Wood..I  still miss her beauty, acting and her public persona, was one of  a very shy woman with allot to give this world...and we have one performance here..but know and I am sure it is already been said , that it is not Natalie singing but Marni Nixon. Can you believe they kept her a secret for so many years, in so many movies..I would LOVE to know HOW they recorded Marni's voice without anyone knowing..I mean, that's allot of people in that sound stage back then.....THIS is from Wikipedia..so it may ALL not be correct...but I do know West Side Story & My Fair Lady are Marni's

Nixon's dubbing career includes:
The voices of the angels heard by Ingrid Bergman in Joan of Arc (1948)
The singing voice of Margaret O'Brien in The Secret Garden (1949)
Providing Marilyn Monroe with a few top notes in her performance of "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend" in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (1953)
An eerie vocalise (wordless vocal) as part of George Antheil's score for Dementia (1955)
The singing voice for Deborah Kerr in the film of Rodgers & Hammerstein's The King and I (1956) (in one song -- "Shall I tell you what I think of you?" -- Kerr's and Nixon's voices were skillfully intertwined; this was deleted from the film before its release, but it was retained on the soundtrack cast recording; Deborah Kerr also provides the spoken words at the beginning of "Getting to know you").
Dubbing Deborah Kerr's singing voice again in An Affair to Remember, one year after dubbing her in The King and I
The singing voice for Natalie Wood as Maria in West Side Story (1961). Nixon also sang some parts of the score of Anita played by Rita Moreno, sharing the load with co-dubber Betty Wand and Moreno herself. In parts of the quintet setting of the song "Tonight", she sings both Maria and Anita's lines, according to her autobiography.
The singing voice for Audrey Hepburn as Eliza in My Fair Lady (1964). In the finished film the only remaining singing vocals by Audrey Hepburn herself are the lower verse vocals in the song Just You Wait, the line "Sleep, sleep, I couldn't sleep tonight" in I Could Have Danced All Night and Just You Wait (reprise).

The choreography in this movie is one that is genius, will never be surpassed on film and a collaboration we will NEVER see again..BERNSTEIN AND SONDHEIM!!....and I will tell you MY favorite part of the movie cause THIS can only be done in an independent movies because of MONEY MONEY MONEY issues...and that is the end...and the amount of time the film is running, when Tony dies..ALL that SILENCE, is so effective and pure gold....never done again.

Cheers..
TONY(NYC)