I agree with what another viewer said about recommending Stargate SG-1.  I am NOT a Sci-Fi fan in general.  I did not care much for Star Wars and I really disliked Star Trek; however, I loved Stargate SG-1!  As a side note, I also did NOT care much for Stargate Atlantis from the episodes I saw on t.v.  We purchased the first 6 plus seasons Stargate SG-1 some years back and I still enjoy watching them again and again.

BETTER THAN T.V. - When I watched Stargate on t.v. I would miss an episode here and there and to be able to watch them in order is a plus because it adds to the enjoyment.  You can watch isolated episodes, but, the episodes do build somewhat upon each other.  I caution you though that it is so enjoyable that you may sit down to watch one episode and keep watching.

ADULT THEMES - There is nudity in Season 1 (First or Second Show), but, I do not remember nudity in other shows?  The women are sometimes dressed Sexy. The show has many battles, but, my stomach could handle the scenes they showed.  I think they did an excellent job of conveying battle without showing bloody scenes.

ACTING - All of the acting is top notch.  The characters have debth.  I think most people will identify with at least one of the main characters in some ways.  The show is centered around four warriors.  The four warriors probably would not have chosen each other as friends because they are so different, but, their differences are also their strengths.  Sometimes their surrival was the result of their differences.  The warriors are true friends and they respect one another.  I would say the true purpose of the warriors is to seek truth and freedom.

MATURE SUBJECT MATTER - I wouldn't expect young children to be enjoying this show.  The show has mature subject matter including slavery, sexual stereoytypes, equality, greed, oppression, Dangers of knowledge and Power and Dangers of Lacking in Knowledge and Power, False Idols, Mythology and lots of bibical symbolism to name a few.  It is good versus evil, but, oftentimes it is difficult to determine what is good and what is evil when you are in the midst of the situation as the warriors are.  The show also illustrates our human nature and experiences which can be positive at times and uplifting and negative at times and heartbreaking.

CONCLUSION - The show can be deep and thought provoking or just pure entertainment, depending on your desire.  I appreciate having t.v. shows that have debth and excellent writing, acting, scenery.  This show has drama, humor, love and action.  It doesn't get much better than Stargate SG-1.