I love this documentary and have watched it several times. The soundtrack is so great... the guys (and Peggy Oki) were probably listening to all the songs heard here on their FM radios... great photos and the interviews are terrific. And one thing that really struck me is how similar Venice,CA and Asbury Park, NJ were to each other in the 70s. The hard-to-surf, downright dangerous waves and ways to hurt or kill yourself especially, the scary, haunted house feel of decaying former amusement playlands making it all too plain that the veneers sold to Dogtown's former residents/vacationers are wafer-thin. These kids grew up seeing the brutal truth of economic downturn and what waited for them as they became adults all too plain. But embracing their environment and overcoming obstacles to achieve the pleasure of surfing, and later, skating pools, made them strong, and all through this doc I rooted for Jay Adams, Stacy Peralta, and Tony Alva (every one on the Zephyr team)... and I hope Jay Adams is out of jail by now and he's getting some sweet waves in Hawaii or in California. I didn't know about Dogtown until I saw this (I knew who Tony Hawk was... and Matt Hoffman... and I think the Jackass guys are funny as hell), and I am so glad I know their history now. Sean Penn narrating is fantastic, and even the heavy dourness seems to have lifted out of his voice for this... he sounds like he is remembering his surfing days (he really was Jeff Spicoli when he was a teen). He deserves to have a fun project like this every now and again considering how many serious roles he plays and his activism :). Henry Rollins included in it is a revelation: I always wondered why he moved to Redondo Beach from DC while the hardcore scene was at its height... now I know: Hank wanted to be a Z-Boy !!!
All in all, even if someone who knew nothing about surfing or skateboarding watched this, I am sure they would be transfixed and uplifted by the story of Dogtown.
And I hope all of them live long happy lives, especially Jay Adams.
Ah, a gushing fan review, who would've guessed?