 
there had to be a catch, i guess....... 4% PAL to NTSC speed up .... ridiculous (not neccessarily chipmunk floyd but extremely annoying to any one sensitive to the pitch and tempo of the orignal soundtrack......better than the vhs only in the sense, that it won't wear out thru multiple viewings, and the mix is certainly better..........i guess remixing the music from the original multitracks and transfering at the CORRECT speed (for NTSC ) was too much....... trouble ?!?! bottom line. Floyd deserve to be remembered better than this.......and we, in the NTSC market shouldn't support productions that are too ___________ to perform a proper NTSC xfer that retains the integrity of the original product.  hello there Universal.......WHAT? were you thinking?  oh they won't notice that nick mason sounds like a............. girl?  to all those who produce DVD's  for the world market, and slog off on proper xfers for either your PAL or NTSC markets.......we're fans, not region codes or dollar signs,  how would you like it if we took YOUR favourite movie, cd, or dvd, and sped it up 4%.......all the while knowing that someone else across the pond was listening to it at the correct speed?!?!?
notice how the producers of the who, kids are alright dvd, FIXED the speed problem with the original kids VHS (which suffered from a 4% speed up)  THEY did it right.....their product got BETTER.  you guys went backwards.
shame shame mr.maben and company.........
buyer beware !
gee, i WONDER if they are gonna put out a new directors cut mixed from the "original multitracks" with  a "new" 5.1 soundtrack blah blah blah.........RIDICULOUS.....and you wonder why people are fed up, when they keep buying their favourite movies or albums over and over and over again, because the first release was shoddy, and subsequent releases promise better quality........reminds me of the 1st edition CRAP kubrick boxset, and then the reissue, with a special documentary, that you could only get if you bought the whole damn thing AGAIN!  
i think we all deserve better.