Based on the Spanish movie Abre Los Ojos aka Open Your Eyes, Vanilla Sky is different, but as equally compelling as the original. 
Vanilla Sky copies several scenes right out of the original movie. There are parts that are eerily similar, especially with Sofia being played by the same actress who played her originally, yet there are several different parts as well. Vanilla Sky is more lengthy, and goes into more detail with everything. 
The Times Square scene was brilliant, and even more fascinating than the one shot by Amenabar (the director of Open Your Eyes) in the original, partly because Times Square is something that exists closer to home, rather than something in far off Spain. Eerily shot, it features the entire Times Square in New York empty, with not a single person in sight, and is a brilliant setup to the rest of the movie. 
While Vanilla Sky has many similarities to the original, the most fascinating thing I found was that two things made experiencing Vanilla Sky totally different from experiencing Open Your Eyes for me. The first was the lighting. In the original, the lighting is very dark, and chilling, and the movie has a very dark thriller tone to it. But Vanilla Sky is shot with brilliantly bright colors that make the entire movie glow with a certain vibe and energy, and that exist to make the movie sometimes even more chilling in its own right. The second was the music. While the first featured a deep and amazing score by Amenabar, this second featured many pop culture references, and a more modern sound to it - something that Cameron Crowe is known for. These two factors make the two movies entirely different, but in both cases, they enhance the experience. 
The mystery tone itself is hard for me to judge, partly because seeing the original took out all the mystery in Vanilla Sky anyway. But even without having a sense of mystery for me to judge, it was still a stunningly original experience, and one which had me engrossed in the entire movie. 
It didn't hurt either that Cameron Diaz had what was one of the best performances of 2001. There is always a certain moment in a brilliant performance that defines the entire role, a certain scene in which I can only describe as a spark, a place where the actor/actress connects with the audience. Fionnula Flanagan had it when she regally gave the keys to Nicole Kidman in The Others, Kate Hudson had it when she was torn between crying and laughing in Almost Famous, Naomi Watts had it in her audition in Mulholland Dr, and now, Cameron Diaz had it when she laughed and looked into the camera with those almost maddening and insane eyes in Vanilla Sky. The rest of the cast was also stellar as always, though I would have liked to see more of Kurt Russell as the psychiatrist at the end of this movie. 
Many will interpret this film differently. Some will take the ending literally and utterly without question. Others may interpret this in an entire other way. There are at least three main paths that someone could argue this movie takes, and as the director said, every one of them could be right. 
All in all, Vanilla Sky is one of the more intelligent, compelling, and fascinating movies of 2001. I am glad to say that Vanilla Sky is a piece of art in its own right, as equally colorful and vivid as the Monet painting hanging in David's apartment.