What makes this film different from earlier Egoyan films is the
accessibility of this film.  It seems some of Egoyan's rough
edges have been finally smoothed out. Gone, finally, are some
of the annoying self-conscious, self-artful and self-proclamatory
iconoclasm of The Adjuster and Exotica and Sweet Hereafter.
With each new film, Egoyan matures and lessens (thankfully not
all at once and so abruptly) some of the self-conscious film school
hokum that plagues his early films (particularly the Adjuster)
though not to the extent of rendering his earlier films
unwatchable or lacking in cinematic quality. This seems
to be a Canadian thing; I have noticed that David Cronenberg
has followed almost exactly the same trajectory in the maturation
of his films over time (and I am as much a big fan of Cronenberg
as I am Egoyan).

This film does rather insist that you try and dispense with
pre-conceived notions and prejudices and is one of the most
effective films in fact in presenting the thesis that the
'enemy' (e.g., Arabs, Muslims, etc.) are capable of humanity
and subtlety and intellectual accomplishment.  What separates
this film from more transparent ideological films is that
this film tries to emphasize global humanity without subtracting
from any particular group or protagonist (or self-proclaimed
protagonist). If I had one criticism (without giving away
the whole plot), I might say that towards the end of the film,
I am not sure Egoyan is completely neutral and un-PC and does
seem to take sides with a pro-multiculturalism philosophy,
though in fairness to Egoyan I do not believe he takes ethnic
sides (in this film anyway) with any particular party to
the various conflicts in the Middle-East (one suspects
his vagabond Armenian background-having to move around
alot-and the precarious positions Armenians have sometimes
found themselves in the Middle-East, has greatly influenced
his political and social views-this film seems to play
some of these out, but in a subtle and non-judgemental way).
One CAN leave viewing this film maintaining one's prejudices
without having felt like they were ideologically assaulted from
opposing viewpoints because to his credit, Egoyan is asking us to
think and is not condescending to us in this film ("Agree with
me or you are an idiot..."-Are you listening Oliver Stone ?)
which in itself is rare among Directors. Kudos to Egoyan
in asking us to think but respecting us anyway, even if
we choose not to.

This film is especially well-edited, filmed, scored and
plotted even by the usual high standards of Egoyan films.
As I mentioned above, the film is more straightforward
than some of his earlier films which, like The Adjuster,
were terribly hokie and self-conscious. This film is not.
It is beautiful, well-acted, simple, artful and thoughtful
and well worth the cost of seeing it at the cinema
or purchasing the well-made DVD transfer.