Let me just start by saying that I thought this DVD, upon hearing about it as rumors way back last year, was going to be a piece of garbage. Allow me to explain. I assumed that the producers of Family Guy were going to slap together three episodes and call it a movie, with no flow, and use it to make cash. I also thought that this movie wouldn't be funny, as it would have been slapped together while the show was being brought back into production, therefore diminishing its quality.

Gladly, I was proved very wrong.

In fact, I believe this DVD is actually better than most of the episodes from the brand new season of Family Guy. The three episodes are linked together quite nicely, with "commercial" skips used to separate the individual parts instead. Book-ending the parts are two little segments: The Red Carpet, where we see the Griffins go to the premier of the movie, and The Party, where the Griffins go to a wrap-party after the premier, and enjoy some Pawtucket Patriot Ale, as well as talking about what they have done in the time between Seasons 3 & 4. Truly amusing.

On to the movie itself: the movie attacks pop culture, per usual, and does it in themost tasteless way possible....yay! The complaint I have had about Season 4 was the WAY too many asides, where they say "this is like the time where..." and go off on a dead end. Thankfully, the movie has some of that, but isn't packed to the brim with it like in Season 4- in other words, its more in the style of old-school Family Guy, and, as fans know, thats a good thing. The movie isn't totally dedicated to Stewie and Brian either, something I feared as I think Peter is the best character and that Brian and Stewie are overrated, and would therefore get an unfair share of screen time. Fortunately, the screen time is evenly distributed, and makes for double the fun as you see two separate stories unwinding, with Stewie's naturally being at the forefront.

SPOILERS FROM HERE ON:

The thing I especially dug about this movie, aside from the usual goodies of Family Guy, was the way they talked about really dark subject matter. We get a look at Stewie's dull future, talk about Brian dying, and see Chris abused by his cursing-wife, and Peter and Lois moving into an old-folks home. Meg has a sex change, but that is actually not as much dark as it is funny and disturbingly expected. I especially liked the twist ending, and was not expecting what happened. A+ for movie content.

Now, for the special features. The commentary, unlike the TV-DVDs ones, is actually informing. Sure, we get the clever banter we all know and love, but we actually get some hardcore information in this commentary, and have our questions answered. A+ for that, its a great time.

As for the sneak peeks, they really aren't sneak peaks as much as they are clips from the show interspersed with an announcer talking about how silly the characters are. I was disappointed here, as I had hoped to see maybe a look at the DVDs, or maybe a look at episodes that were coming up. Alas, you can't win em all.

The animatics are like those on Volume 2, and are interesting as always.

The things to watch: UNCENSORED audio track, then play it with commentary to enjoy fully.

5/5, quite a great DVD. Can't wait for Season 4 to be released.