As a Bruce Lee's fan since childhood,i'm really glad to see this special anniversary edition dvd... reason being it contained two of the best bruce lee's documentries ever released... hw else will u describe "bruce lee: a warrior journey", "bruce lee: curse of the dragon" ....The former have to be the most exciting bruce lee's documentry ever as it included the unseen footage of "Game of Death" as it should be seen!!!(G.O.D, the 70's movie is a big insult to bruce lee, hated it to the core, nw i don't have to endure it juz to see the pagoda scenes) seeing these footage made me felt like i was watching a new bruce's movie!!! Thank God for John Little....

For the other bonus materials, i recommended the "enter the dragon" featurette as it showed hw the movie came about with rare footages of the sets and fliming process... the documentry "blood and steel: making of enter the dragon" pales in comparison.... the tv spots, theatrical trailers are also very entertaining as it provided a peek as to hw this movie was promoted back then in the 70's....

Lastly for the movie, i felt tt "enter the dragon" is the most accessible bruce lee's movie for the non-asian crowd... reasons being the James Bond-like scenes, the inclusion of John Saxon n Jim Kelly along with Bruce to form a trio of adventurers n the magnificent sets made the flim looked more like a Hollywood action thriller than a Hong Kong kung fu movie (tt's the intention of Warner Bros obviously... though it's a US-HK co-production)... but if u really want to see the glory of bruce's, i recommended "Way of the Dragon" (aka "Return of the Dragon" in the US), which bruce produced, directed and acted.... n who can forget the fantastic coliuseum finale where bruce duel with Chuck Norris?

In conclusion, this special anniversary edition of "enter the dragon" is a steal... with all the great bonus materials which caused me to spend days watching (at least 3 of the documentries r 90mins and above)... even if u r not a bruce lee fan, u should buy it due to the above reason alone.... as for bruce lee's fan, this will be the most valuable piece in your bruce lee's dvds collection yet....