I got this film because of the incredible array of four and five star reviews it got in this column.  I looked forward to a film that would tantalize me visually as well as mentally.  Instead, i ended up having to take the terrible taste induced by this horribly-made film by watching "Wait Until Dark" after this piece of trash ended.
I have only one question: what planet were these reviewers on when they screened this, what i will loosely call, film?  Here is the grade run down: Script = F minus, Acting = D (and this includes Mitchum's performance; more on that later), Direction = F (i now understand why laughton directed only one film), Cinematography = A (the lone bright spot of this film), Editing = F minus (i cannot recall a film which was edited as poorly as this one was; it was choppy to say the least, with the continuity of a pothole-filled back road).
It is true that the over-played shot of Shelley Winters under water was spectacularly well done, but one opulent scene a great movie does not make.  Poorly designed lines were attrociously delivered by mostly unskilled passionless amateurs (except for a particularly strong performance by the drunk seaman).  Powell was played with some force by Mitchum, but compared to say, Harry Roat, played by a true pro, Alan Arkin, in Wait Until Dark, he comes up laughably inane.  And what about that script?  Did the critic-turned-screenwriter really write a mangled piece of prose, or did it get turned into that by the less-than-hapless editing crew?  The script was based upon a real novel which i understand had volumes of more substance than this trash has.  
But maybe the worst travesty is the injustice imposed upon us by my erstwhile reviewers here.  They claim to be film-buffs.  They try to make you think you are not a true film connisseur if you do not see the beauty and the splendor of the "artistry" of this film.  They call this "the greastest film ever made bar none".  And the truly amazing thing is that there are dozens upon dozens of these reviews, most of which say pretty much the same thing.  Either one of two things is happening here: (1) these reviewers have no clue what a really great film is (i can put up a few: Citizen Kane, Lawrence of Arabia, Usual Suspects, Halloween, 2001 A Space Odyssey, The Third Man, and that list is just the tip of the iceberg of outstanding films); (2) these reviewers want to sound and come off as part of the intelligentsia of filmdom.  
Take my advice.  Stay away from this film unless you are a masochist, or you wish to learn what mistakes to avoid in making a film, or perhaps if you want to see first hand what nuts exist out there who wantonly enter completely bulls**t reviews.