I'm usually a music reviewer but I had to step up to the plate and defend this.  This movie is downright hilarious, I have no idea what some of you are on.  Remember folks, this is a COMEDY.  An indepth plot, moving acting and such don't mean much when it comes to comedy.  Take a look at this guy a couple reviews below me who complains about the special effects.  Who the hell complains about special effects in a COMEDY???  Some people need to stop whining.  This ain't Star Wars or an Al Pacino film, it's Will Ferrel!

Anyway this is an awesome movie for the audience it's aimed for and I'm not ashamed to say I'm part of it.  If you like somewhat edgy, one-liner, slapstick humor and other Will Ferrel movies you'll surely like this one, if that stuff isn't your thing then you probably won't and that's cool.  The movie had some awesome characters and a variety of actors in supporting roles from Michael Clarke Duncan to Lundberg from Office Space as Ferrel's hilarious deadbeat dad.  I have to agree with others on the fact that Cohen definitely takes the spotlight as the funniest character, Jean Gerrard the gay French rival driver.  You'd think that being gay and French he'd be made as the wimpy whipping boy of the movie but you're dead wrong, he even becomes the star driver when Ricky goes through that "traumatic" experience.  Cohen once again proves his versatility and is one of my favorite comedic actors.  To be honest I was rooting for Jean because let's face it, Ricky was an obnoxious douche for the most part.

As for the whole NASCAR thing, to me that's just the underlying theme.  It shouldn't really take precedence and shouldn't be a big deal to people because I'm pretty sure they weren't trying to make that part realistic, once again I remind you this is a COMEDY and that is the most important part of the movie.  Sure it makes fun of it but they should since racing is pretty friggin' boring if you think about it, I mean they just drive around in circles again and again and AGAIN.  Wow, how intersting.  Well if you're actually driving that could fun but watching it?  Nah.  As for the stereotype thing well being racey and controversial seems to be the thing these days so you can't take that too personally.  Perhaps this movie takes those things a little too far but in the end it succeeds.  I'm a big fan of that type of comedy so all in all this movie does it for me, but if shallow remarks and cheap shots aren't for you then I don't even know why you bothered watching it.

Lastly, it definitely wasn't as good as other Will Ferrel classics like Anchorman and Old School but it's still pretty awesome if you ask me. SHAKE AND BAKE!!!