I expected to hate this movie. Every preview, every glimpse of Reynolds hamming it up in the trailer, every bad review told me that DC had once again failed to truly get Green Lantern. And, having seen the movie, I can tell you that, yes, DC once again screwed up. But for all the movie's shortcomings, the underlying Green Lantern story shines through. It's such a powerful story, not even Reynold's overacting, the cheesey CGI or that godawful suit could destroy it.

Yes, the flaws are many. Hal Jordan, for example, is introduced as a kind of irresponsible buffoon. I assume the filmmakers wanted to show that Hal was "only human," full of flaws and able to evolve once he became a Green Lantern. But that gimmick betrays a defining principle of the GL story--that Jordan always strove to be a hero, even when he was just a test pilot. The ring made him a superhero. But it didn't give him his bravery or virtue. That's why the ring chose him.

Another problem with the movie is the cartoonish CGI used to depict Oa and the GL Corps. The saddest victim of the cheesey CGI is the great Kilowog. He looks, moves and sounds here like a Disney character. Or, dare I say it, Jar Jar Binks...

Then there is the suit--the weird CGI mask in particular. Truly, Ryan Reynolds really does look like Hal Jordan. But when that CGI mask is superimposed over his face, he acquires an off-putting resemblance to Ben Stiller. The suit has that odd shimmering CGI look, and the mask looks strangely flat like grease paint. Ben Stiller in a grease paint mask. It's hard to get over.

I could go on. Really, I could go on and on about why this movie is a disaster. But despite all the flaws, I really enjoyed it. This is, after all, the Green Lantern story--Abin Sur, Ferris Aircraft, the big blue headed Guardians of the Universe. It's all there for the first time on the big screen, writ large, radiant and amazing despite its flaws.  If you've never cared much for GL, maybe this is a movie to skip. If you're a real fan, this is a story very much worth seeing. You'll be so frustrated by all it gets wrong, but you'll cheer for what it gets right.