When Philippe Petit, after astounding the world with almost an hour of antics - walking, jumping, dancing and even reclining - on a steel cable strung between the Twin Towers on August 7th, 1974, before giving himself up to the New York police, the enigmatic entry under which he was booked read "Man on wire."

This is how the police viewed his act and also how most of the world viewed it - as the act of a crazy individual who, balancing on a steel cable rigged precariously at a height of 1,368 ft above the streets of New York, had astounded everyone by crossing and recrossing eight times before rain brought an end to his performance.

If the thousands watching Petit had been asked what they had seen they would probably have answered, like the police, that they had seen a man on a wire. However, it seems clear from the movie that many of the onlookers, far from merely having seen a man on a wire, had experienced something so beautiful and profound that it could only be described as religious or spiritual; they had seen a man becoming truly a man or even something more than a man; they had witnessed him demonstrating the full potential that lies buried deep within all of us. I think this is why they were so moved that some of them wept.

Awakening normally takes place in isolation. No-one actually saw the Buddha become a buddha. But when Petit, courting death and moved by some inexplicable force, took that first grim step onto the swaying steel cable and we saw his face suddenly melt into an ecstatic smile, at that very moment he triumphantly conquered the universal fear of death, shattered the prison of ego and, buddha-like, became one with the cable, the towers, the watching crowd, the city, the world and the universe itself and I'm sure some in the crowd must have felt this. The ancient Indian philosopher Nagarjuna (c.150 - 250 CE) explains:

"When buddhas don't appear
And their followers are gone,
The wisdom of awakening
Bursts forth by itself."

The world, in short, was granted the privilege of witnessing the awakening of a man, human as we are human, beautifully bursting forth into his full potential as man on wire became buddha on wire.