Heartbreak Ridge was an army battle, fought in Korea by the 2nd (Indianhead) Infantry Division, I think. (If I'm wrong, don't shoot.) Apparently, the army refused to sponsor the film and so the writers changed a few lines and the Corps took it up (and later tried to backpedal).  The only time this is mentioned is when the Sergeant Major and Pvt Peebles are in the Old Marine Hangout bar (we're never given a name, it sure isn't the Staff NCO club on base) and the SgtMaj gives the Pvt a small history lesson, mentioning that they went in the Corps after Korea.

The film is formula, pure and simple, with all the caricatures of old time war movies.  The conflict between Gunnery Sergeant Hightower and the football hero Major is yet another of the neverending personality conflicts without which no military outfit can function - according to Hollywood. (If it was really like that, of course, no unit could get itself together enough to make it to the point of embarkation much less fight!)

However, the uniforms and equipment are authentic and worn properly.  Even the ribbons and badges are correct as to time and place and worn as prescribed by regulations.  The "Gunny fund" scene where Hightower bails out one of his men who is married and in money trouble is real enough.  In the old days before base social workers, sergeants did what they had to and units took care of their own as best they could.  I remember that in the 80's, ten years after the All Volunteer Armed Forces and enormous pay increases, every single married man in my platoon qualified for food stamps and other welfare programs.  We were required to inform them of this and even arrange time for them to go off base to apply!  (Young servicepersons below the paygrade of E-5 shouldn't marry because of their lower incomes.  General Carl Mundy, onetime Commandant of the Marine Corps, tried to incorporate that into regulations, but was shot down by the PC lobby in DOD.)

What makes the movie worth watching is the Sergeant Major.  I don't know where the actor got it, but he is the authentic old-time Staff Noncommissioned Officer to the bone.  The erect, authoritative, bearing - worn so long as to be as unconciously part of the man as his skin. The sardonic, weatherbeaten face with eyes that don't just look but inspect.  The outrageous use of the language unique to noncommissioned officers as described by Nicholas Proffitt in Gardens of Stone: :...the easy mixture of hundred-dollar words and grammatical barbarisms that made up the noncom patois."  The hard, cynical, mocking - yet gentle - humor.  I grew up under those men, learned the trade from them, and watched them pass from the scene.  That actor plays the part to the point I was convinced the filmakers had hired a real Sergeant Major.  Their spirit survives and was passed down, but the mold is no longer used.  They belonged to a less technical, technocratic and bureaucratic  Marine Corps where most Marines were infantrymen, packs were canvas, rifle stocks wood, barracks were open barnlike structures with no privacy, and trucks and other vehicles were used mostly for hauling heavy equipment - the men walked.  All that went away in the 70's and early 80's, which is, after all, a prominent subtheme in the film.

Good, cheap, non-thought provoking, entertainment where we get to be the good guys for once.

Semper Fi,

SB Scanlon

Master Sergeant, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.,)