WARNING!!!  Be VERY CAREFUL when reading other reviews here - some of your fellow Amazonians have given away an important plot twist that will diminish your enjoyment viewing this film.  I will not do that here.

This excellent psychological thriller is about two men.  One of them is obsessed over the disappearance of his girlfriend at a gas station when they were on a road trip together.  Was she kidnapped?  Murdered?  Or did she just leave him?  He has to know at any cost.  Years pass, he gets a new girlfriend, and obviously no longer loves the one that disappeared, but his obsession has only grown over time.  He hangs "missing" posters around town and goes on TV begging to know what happened to the missing woman.

The other man is a mild-mannered husband and father, the kind of guy that might live next door to your house in the suburbs.  After doing something very good as a young man, he develops an obsession of his own - he wants to see if he is also capable of doing something equally evil.

The stories of these two men intersect, and, in a way, each holds the key to the other's obsession.

Watching this film is not effortless - it has subtitles and lots of flashbacks.  One thing that helps is that whenever the film focuses on the time around the woman's disappearance, someone has a radio on and is listening to coverage of the Tour de France (a 21-day bike race, for those of you unfamiliar with Lance Armstrong).

In the buildup to the climax, all questions are gradually answered and the movie leaves us with everything resolved in a very cool way.

The movie has some great literary devices.  Early in the film, a creepy incident in a tunnel sets the tone and becomes a metaphor for something important later in the film.

One very cool thing about this film is how terrifying it is, without resorting to gimmicks, special effects, gore, or foreboding violin music.  The director really pulls off a minor miracle.  And you think you know who the bad guy is early in the film, and you may be right, yet the suspense is still quite compelling.

The same director was hired by Hollywood and paid a lot of money to create a sanitized remake.  Avoid it.  This version is the real deal.