Being a long time fan of Whitesnake all the way from the first steps in the mid seventies until today it is great to see a first class production of a Whitesnake show at last. The sound and picture is superb and the band deliveres a high energy performance. The songs are what we can expect with a few surprises such as Take me with you and Burn (From the Deep Purple disc with the same name). The short intro from Hit and run played between songs made me long for more of the older songs, but knowing how little people in general know about the early records I understand the focus on the famous albums made in the 80's.

The video production is wonderful with not too fast clips and just the right amount of shots of the audience. The black and white cut in here and there works fine. The Dio DVD released a couple of years ago featured a lot of black and white clips that slowed down the tempo and made it hard to watch - in this case it is used as a perfect and effectful tool.

The band is one of the many incarnations of whitesnake that works fine. (Marco has now left the band and has been replaced by a young gun named Uriah)My only comment on the band is that it cuts the older songs too hard without the dynamic vibe from the original recordings. Tommy is a great drummer, but the dynamic and loose feeling of the older songs (played originally by Ian Pace)is lost in the thunder.

The guitar solo by Dough is plain boring. He deliveres a similar but more diverse and inteligent solo on the Dio DVD. Tommy plays the drum solo with the same fury and energy as always. Marco is a world class bass player and a superb back up singer. Timothy is a pro keyboard player and back up singer. All world class musicians adding their own personal touch to Whitesnake. The member who sounded all but good when I heard the band in the summer of 2004 is Reb. But boy does he deliver in this show! He has the kind of bluesy feel and bad boy smile that I expect from Whitesnake.

David sounds a thousand times better than he did on the show I saw in 2004. Instead of squeeling and screaming he actually sings. And he does it with feel and tone just like he used to do in the seventies and eighties. Thank God!

Over all the band is just top notch and very musical. The only band in the business that just sings about love and not about the devil and politics has grown older and so has the audience. They all sing along as a true Whitesnake audience should and David drinks tea before the encore. Not very rock&roll? I agree but I love the songs and the vibe and the production wich makes it a clear "4" in my opinion.