Dolls is a fun little item from the 80s that has a lot to recommend. Unfortunately, it's not that there are bad things to pursue it but is just a little too mediocre at times. First of all, the cast is great. Step- Oh, wait. Forgot about the plot.

  After their car gets stuck in a bump on a muddy road, instead of David Bower's new wife help him move it, the character of Rosemary Bower rather unkindly goes to a house that David has seen after throwing Judy Bower's teddy out into the cold. They meet Gabriel and Hilary Hartwicke, who welcome them in. The daughter sees the several dolls they have and they converse with her on how magical things do exist while it is revealed that her biological mother actually believes in fantastic ideas. David and Rosemary continue to treat Judy like a mutt at best and three others come into the house, Isabel, Enid and Ralph. Isabel and Enid are supposed prostitutes that are actually stealers. Ralph is actually a good-spirited child-in-a-man who is labled a rapist when one of the stealers goes missing. The dad goes to find Judy, who went away because she trusts Ralph and he threatened her when she told him about the death before. More mayhem insues and the bodycount rises until David is battling himself against a doll the Hartwickes had given Judy earlier.

  As I was saying, the cast is great. Ian Patrick Williams and Carolyn-Purdy-Gordon [A strong player for Full Moon Entertainment] do great as the dispicable older Bowers. Williams actually has one of the best scenes as he plays love tap with his wife while she's under the covers, a small string of blood coming out the other end which he can't see. You can see it to be set up to it's a jump-scare. But believe it or not, it's a couple scenes later, AFTER he's gone in the shower, in which the big scare comes for him and it's not nearly as good as those other scenes. Carrie Loraine does an amiable job as the cute kid whose in a worse realationship with her parents then with the occurences happening now. Guy Rolfe and Hilary Mason are droll as the Hartwickes, who are some o the most sympathetic old people you'll ever watch in a movie, horror or not. Bunty Bailey [whose brief but in depth b-movie career this started in] does a good job as one of the stealers and so does Cassie Stuart, who surprisingly played in Amadeaus. Stephen lee, A GREAT comedian and one of the saving graces of Ghoulies III: Ghoulies Go To College is absolutley adorable here as Ralph. He steals in every time he's on screen that it's almost sad when you see him kicking the dolls, but not nearly as crushing as the battle between him and David Bower.

The special effects are great, being possibly Full Moon's best work. Stuart Gordon went from Reanimator to this and it's good to see a kind of supernatural film that has spades of blood. That's the kind  NOBODY makes anymore. Plus the death scenes are generally scary. From the dolls to the human's, including a memorable false-hope in a sequence in which it looks like the teddy-bear Rosemary threw to the ground has come back alive. The death of isabel is generally a shocker. And the plot flows rather well. You have almost enough room for a drama fit nicely into it's compact running time.

But there are a couple things not wrong but just fairly obvious. Some of the shots have as much a rip-off factor as almost every horror movie ever made. So that just makes it average. And the ending to credits just makes no sense whatsoever.
And the whole reason for all of this doesn't either. It's not bad, it's just differant by being the same {What?!]. But the movie is fun that you could do alot worse and there's not even recogninzing it through how much fun your having.

The dvd looks great, the print being occasionly scratchy but having a nice coloered texture which works in this film's favor. The shadows occasionally become too dark. But like the coloring, this works in the film's favor.
  For horror fans: I'd give it a 7
  for mainstream tastes, I'd give it a 6.
Go out and give it a watch. it's a wild , fun, , ride..