A master of the political thriller, here Pakula is totally in his element with the John Grisham novel and in complete control as a filmmaker, especially because Pakula also wrote the screenplay based on the novel.

Pelican Brief is about the solving of assassinations of Supreme Court Justices, and demonstrates how pivotal the Court's power can be in the realm of law, the Constitution, the Environment, and the Congress -- as we've seen even in recent months, with the disasterous Citizens United decision. A difference of one of two justices can have drastic effects on matters of law (i.e., limits on human behavior), affecting the whole country. But when you start breaking rules on this treacherous chessboard, as oil-baron Victor Mattiece has done, look out.

Pakula as director of Pelican Brief seems like a kid in a candy store with an absolutely top-flight cast, one of the top composers in Hollywood (James Horner), and unbelievable cinematography. On a level of technical discipline alone, no Hollywood production was ever slicker. The carefully crafted pacing and tension in this Pakula thriller never let up.

My wife says that Julia Roberts can't act -- well, nonsense! Here she is not only adorable but runs the gamut of emotions from romance to terror to shock.  Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts), a law student who is having an affair with her professor (Sam Shepard), wrote the "Pelican Brief", and as this document works it's way higher and higher in the corridors of power, she finds herself and her associates targets of professional hitmen. At one point, she is totally alone and trusts no one. Then she reaches out to reporter Gray Grantham.

Perhaps the most compelling aspect of the Pelican is that it shows, in Hitchcockian style, the inner workings of influence and power at a high level, from the President of The United States, played marvelously by the late Robert Culp, the Goldwyn brothers, the unimpeachable and mindless assassin convincingly portrayed by Stanley Tucci, and the equally powerful Denzel Washington (as Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham), whose measured and driving performance puts him near the top of my list of mythic film heroes.

The bad attorneys and hitmen are really, really good, including Stanley Anderson as Edwin F. Sneller (the fixer), Nicholas Woodeson as Stump, and of course Anthony Heald as the top attorney at White and Blazevich.

Highest recommendation. The Bluray looks great, and the trailer is narrated by the late legendary Don LaFontaine. There is no commentary track, but perhaps no commentary track is needed. The movie itself is a commentary track on the state of our system of government.