I use to watch this film every night. It's one of those films I never got tired of watching. I connect more with Alice than Nancy. I like Nancy, too, but Alice is more like me, so that's why I connect with her more. I'm pretty happy that we didn't see Alice get killed on-screen like Nancy or even Laurie Strode after so many films. At the end of the 5th film, Freddy is clearly still alive. We don't know if he finally got Alice, but since we never seen it, she's still alive in my eyes. I loved that they brought back Kincaid and Joey. Kincaid is one of my favorite Elm Street characters and Joey was a cutie. Too bad they're both killed off early in the film. I didn't have problem with Tuesday Knight taking over Patrica Arquette's role as Kristen. Both obviously portrayed the character differently, but I never was a huge Kristin fan. I didn't hate her, but I never really cared about her. Her character also meets her end in this film. The new characters have personality and you don't what to see them die, but course they have to. The deaths are some of the best of the series. Debbie's death was one of the most disgusting deaths in horror, and after part 4 there were never any deaths as good as that one or the others from the series. This one has got to have one of the funniest and weirdest Freddy resurrections of the series. A dog's urine? Fire urine at that! The  final battle was awesome.  We never seen anyone prepare to take on Freddy as if they were going to war. The soundtrack is one of the series best. No, the best. We get great pop songs through out the film. A soundtrack would've been cool. Tuesday Knight actually wrote and sung the film's title song. She released two albums, but good luck with finding them on CD. This one was the most successful one until the remake and I can see why. I'm glad many fans supported this film when it was released back in the '80s. Despite being the 4th film, people were not tired of Freddy just yet. My top three favorite NOES films are. A Nightmare On Elm Street(1984), A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master and A Nightmare Street 3: The Dream Warriors. I use to have a huge crush on Dan : )