I, too, am anxiously awaiting this 2-disc release.  All of the Disney Platinum Editions so far have been superb and Peter Pan, as noted by most reviewers, is certainly one of Disney's finest achievements!  It is full of wonderful special effects (the first use of "Pixie Dust", I believe), lush backgrounds, animation at the top of its form, memorable characters, and many fleeting but wonderful little touches (be sure to catch the look on Nana's face when she is reminded that she is a dog, and the perplexed expression of a real bear as he contemplates Michael's stuffed Teddy Bear!).  These were the things that made Disney Disney, and separated them from all other pretenders to the throne!  It's all here, in Peter Pan.

In spite of all the plusses that this edition promises, however, I must express one major disappointment.  It doesn't look as though they have included the rare early Disney outing into Television: "The Walt Disney Christmas Show", aired on December 25, 1951.  THAT would have given this set the extra star!  The show featured Kathryn Beaumont (Wendy), Bobby Driscoll(Peter), Paul Collins (John) and Tommy Lusk (Michael), and heavily promoted the up-coming animated feature.  I have been waiting and waiting for them to release this.  The first Disney Christmas show from 1950 was released as part of the laser disc special box-set edition of Alice in Wonderland. I believe the show is also on the special two-disc DVD edition of that film, although it is not listed as one of the special features.  This SECOND Disney Christmas Show, however, is still gathering dust in the vaults somewhere.  I know that it still exists, though, since I had seen it in presented some years ago at the Museum of Television Arts in NYC.

One final comment: for the reviewer who correrctly complained to those who look for widescreen versions of films that were never made widescreen:  The first widescreen film was not the King and I in 1956, but rather The Robe, in 1953 (Cinemascope).  The first Disney outing in cinemascope was Toot, Whistle, Plunk and Boom, also released in 1953, and Disney's first widescreen animated feature was Lady and the Tramp (1954).