*NOTE THIS REVIEW IS MORE ABOUT THE 3D THAN THE MOVIES PLOT ( WHICH THERE IS LITTLE OF )*
Before you even bother to watch this DVD at home you need to take some things into account. If you wear glasses you are in trouble, it is very difficult to wear glasses and 3d glasses ( the glasses included are also very large and bulky so younger children may have problems with the glasses slipping off ). Next make sure you have a pretty damn good TV if you want reasonable 3d effect, a 100hz TV is great ( or plasma but only 5 people have them ). Make sure you connect you DVD through RGB cables for best picture quality, this will help improve the 3D. Also make sure you are sitting in a dark room as lights can cause problems with the 3D effect.
***The best way to watch SPY KIDS 3D is on your pc ! The resolution is higher and the 3D effect is almost 40% better than you'll see on tv***
Now how is the 3D is SPY KIDS 3D at home ? Well....it's ok. Expect nothing earth shattering if you have ever seen 3D before. All kinds of stuff is thrown out of the screen at the audience but you don't get the feeling of them being "right in front of your nose". Instead the best 3D effect is depth, the actors do stand out from the background very well, the effect is like a pop up book. Sometimes the 3D fails completely especially when the images are moving very quickly ( the megarace scene is very difficult to watch due to everything moving too fast, the 3D effect is lost ).
SPY KIDS 3D uses the old red/blue glasses system which is not perfect. The movies colours in 3D are very strange, a kind of purple/green hue. Another problem with this system is the picture can become very foggy, so sometimes it can be difficult to pick out certain details.
As for headaches, i didn't get a headache or eyestrain while watching this movie, but many people do, so if you feel headachy just pause the movie and rest your eyes for 5 minutes.
This is a great introduction to 3D if you have never seen a 3D movie before. Also children will have great fun with the 3D. But if you have seen 3D before then you might feel a little let down by SPY KIDS 3D.