I saw Jerry maguire for the first time in 1997 and I was amazed. I had believed that this was again another typical sports movie with prettyboy Cruise in it, but I was wrong. Cameron Crowe has done really a wonderful piece of modern cinema. The characters are so real, and u can almost smell and touch the films atmosphere when watching it. Tom Cruise is acting with such a wild passion, that you just have to love him for that. He is acting a sport agent full of heart and soul. And Renee Zellweger, could there be any other so sweet, so tender and beautiful person like you in the world? Her role as Dorothy Boyd made me forget that she is even acting, and the part was truly made just for her.(The date scene makes me cry everytime, so pure happiness and feelings) Cuba Gooding jr. earned his first oscar. His character changes the life of Jerry Maguire in the film and does it with such of enthustiasm that you can just admire Rod Tidwells life, where every piece is in the right order. The little boy (Jonathan Lipnicki) is also awesome. All the actors/actresses are doing a good job. The biggest credit goes to the script by Crowe. It is very original and fresh indeed. Crowe has decided to concentrate mostly on characters and that is why I like this movie so much. This is the fist sports movie I have ever loved. Jerry Maguire is about people, who are just like we all. It is about the truth, love, respect and relationships...okay and about sports. Jerry Maguire works really well. The beautiful cinematography, editing and music makes the strong story and characters to look good. Yes I agree that it's very emotional, touchy and sweet, but why should we deny that we need that sometimes. I can honestly say that this world seems to be so much better place to live in after seeing Jerry Maguire. The mix of tiers and smile on your face tells the rest. After I have seen Jerry about 10 times, i can agree that it might be little too long but what the hell, it is still worth every minute of it!