I am so bothered by this DVD, that I don't even know where to begin. So let's start with zero stars and go from there.

Starting with the film itself: Decent acting all around. Decent special effects. Some nice camera work and cinematography. All in all, sets the right mood and delivers a polished output. +1 star for that.

Now, for the script: Just awful. There was no plot to speak of. The same scene was repeated over and over again with little to no variation on the theme. The big "surprise" ending was completely anti-climactic because the characters were never developed enough for you to care one way or the other. Overall, just an absolutely boring story and an even worse script to boot. No points here.

Finally, let's move to the special features: I can appreciate the way that director Courtney Solomon tries to be cutting edge by breaking away from the traditional director commentary and launching into a tirade against Hollywood. But, c'mon man. This was just ridiculous. In some ways, it's worth renting the movie just to see it for yourself. But, to summarize, he sits in a car with an unknown woman by his side and proceeds to bash movie critics and the entire film industry in general. He goes on to tell us how he planted his own reviews, or, worse, how he countered those that he felt were not "legitimate" (defined, I'm sure, as those reviews that did not agree with his own self-inflated opinion of this movie). And then he goes on to talk about how evil all movie critics are and how they can all essentially be bought. If this is true, why did the movie get such poor reviews? Since he obviously spent all sorts of money hiring his own internet crawlers, maybe he should have spent a few extra dollars to buy off a critic or two. I wonder if he would have said any of this stuff if any of those same critics had actually liked his movie. I hate hypocritical garbage from director's like this. Critics are worthless if they pan you, but they're Gods if they actually like your movie. Let's face it, movie critics represent the audience. Their purpose is to help us to make informed buying decisions. And, nine times out of ten, they do just that. All in all, his ranting and raving just confirmed that  the movie we just watched actually did stink. And the fact that he had nothing of substance to tell us about its creation, further confirms that fact.

The one piece of worthy advice that Solomon does give us, I happen to agree with: Let the audience decide whether or not they like the movie. Well, judging by the reviews on this site - it looks like they decided.

For me, 1-star is all I could give.