Fans adore it for it's entertainment, other people hate it for it's brutality, and critics praise it for it's feriosity.

It's understandable why the film is so loved and it is also understandable why it is so disliked by others.

However there is more to "Pulp Fiction" than what meets the eye. It's really a story of uncertain paths and redemtion told in a sadistic way. Not only that but it is somewhat a tribute to older films and an example of export photography.

One good piece of photography in the film is when John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson get out of the elevater about 15 minutes into the film, there is a longshot that lasts about 2 1/2 minutes, then when they enter their victims rooms there is a seriese of very short shots, forshadowing that tension is about to arise.

A well known fact about the film is that most of the violence is offscreen. The same technique was used thirty-four years earlyer in the shower scene in "Psycho," the camera only showed the sequences leading up to the stabbs. The images are all seen in the imagination, and the imagination can show far more violent images that what any film can.

The stories of three men is basically what the film is about. Two of the men are caught at a crossroad in there life and the other meets his end.

Butch (Bruce Willis), is a boxer whome is payed to purposly lose a fight, yet he is a boxer with dreams and wants to rise to the top but doesn't make it, and whom he is being payed by is Marcellus Wallace, a big, tall man with a bandaid on the back of his neck, it is said that the devil enters your body through the back of your neck, in other words Mr. Wallace is the devil. If Butch stages this fight, it is his life he is throwing away, so matephorically speaking he is sailing his soul to the devil. Yet when the time of the fight comes Butch come to a revelation, actually a flash back, when he is presented a gold watch which had been passed down from generation to generation, and ironically had been worn in the past three majore wars America had been involved in, it is realized now that Butch is fighting a war of his own with Wallace and he can't give up without a fight (the man he is fighting is named Wilson, the same name of the boxer whome Marlon Brando purposely lossed a fight for in "On the Waterfront"). When  Butch not only wins the fight, but also kills his opponent, Wallace is out to kill Butch who must get out of town before he is found.

Before he gets out of L.A. once again he crosses paths with Marcellus Wallace and they're on a rampage which lands them in a pawn shop where they are both held at gun point and tied up, Marcelluse is brought out and abused (it seems at the this point, who was once the devil is now humanized). While still tied up yet under little supervision, Butch soon escapes and is about to make a run for it until he has second thoughts about what to do, he kills one of the abusers  and saves the life of Marcellus, with that his life is spared and he is redeemed. He rides a motorcycle (or chopper) back to his loved one. On the chopper it says grace, meaning the grace of God that delivers him from evil.

Another story of irony is between two hitmen: Vincent (John Travolta) & Jules (Samuel L. Jackson). When They have a close call with death themselves, Jules takes it as a sign from God to stop going down the path that they are going down, yet Vincent takes it as an amazing coincidance nothing more. Jules quites his job yet Vincent continues, in which he meets his end soon enough.