Suspense filled scenes of drama. Unrelenting acts of confrontational dialogue.  Contrasting images of a nation torn apart by scandal. These are all but a few of the elements brought upon an audience with the fortunate ability to witness this well paced political thriller adapted by screenwriter William Goldman from the now infamous expose of Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. `All the Presidents Men', originally released in 1976, seems more like a `call to arms' for Americans disgruntled with the modern day political machine then it does with telling the ordinary story of two newspaper reporters supposedly on the edge of one of the greatest cover-ups our nation has ever seen.

 Classic film actor Robert Redford stars as the pensive yet energetic Woodard, a man torn between getting a great story and fulfilling his moral obligation to the greater good of society. Bernstein, played diligently by a young looking Dustin Hoffman, drives the film at a steady pace deserving of an Oscar, only looking back to really contemplate his own indiscretions at the cost of bringing down the U.S. Presidency. As we now know through history's pages, the outcome of such endeavors accomplished by these tenacious Washington Post reporters would have drastic consequences on President Nixon and his untimely address to the American people to present his resignation from public office.

 In the end `All the Presidents Men' could easily be one of the most rewarding instances of a mainstream news media outlet holding government officials accountable for the criminal actions of their leader. Regardless of whether or not you agree with the timing of such exposure for a nation ill-ridden with the dilemma of Vietnam and a seemingly problematic Foreign Policy, using our constitutional right of free speech in the press to unravel governmental conspiracies should always remain precedent. Woodward and Bernstein worked hard to find the truth, and I have to say...I agreed with every minute of it.