I don't know why this film is criticised for its storyline. Maybe it is because of the persistent (but only possibly true) rumours that the "twist" at the end is the result of political pressures; or that it is a cop-out.
I think "The Cabine t of Doctor Caligari" has been underrated. The plot of the film is no less amazing than the distorted sets for which it is famous. No matter where the final twist came from, it somehow fits perfectly into the fabric of the film, making it a journey into the ultimate "cabine t", the mind of a madman.
This disc (which is the same as the Force Videos/Eureka disc available in Australia" is definitely worth the money. Reviewers who criticise this disc are often ignorant of the condition of the negative for this film. Yes, there is "supposed" to be a black line across the top of the screen; it was on the original negative (thank the original German company which screwed up when trying to find out where the top of the frame should end). Yes, there was tinting on the original film (most silent films had tinting; this restoration of the print is based on a tinted negative).
There is, in fact, much to recommend about this restoration. The image, for a film that is eighty-five years old, is magnificent. The frame rate (a perilously low 16 frames per second) has been maintained; which, given my recent irritation with Abel Gance's "Napoleon", is a real bonus.
The soundtrack, by a certain Mr Brock, is about the best soundtrack for a silent film that I have heard. The string music in the expressionist-serialist style of Schoeberg and other composers of the period, drips with suitably expressionistic atmosphere.
The alternative sountrack is a pretty good (though often dry) commentary by a film scholar. It is very interesting to hear his comments; such as, for instance, recent evidence casting doubt on the original oft-told story about why there is a twist at the end.
On the extras there are some (startlingly modern) original advertising posters from America in 1920-1. Film advertising hasn't changed much - these posters, with some modifications, could have been used to promote "Crouching Tiger", for instance.
There are also photos of the original cinema where the film had its premiere - again, startlingly modern; I didn't know cinemas back then could be so plush.
If I had anything bad to say about this disc, it would be that the intertitles, even though they are based on the original intertitles in German, are almost unbearably ugly. That, and the fact that the cover art in the Australian release is also unbearably ugly, with a typesetting error on the back...
I heartily recommend this disc for anyone with even a passing interest in silent film or expressionism.