So many of the VHS releases credit the entire SUPERMAN series to Fleischer Studios, when acutally they did only the first nine, which this edition attempts to present.  I am always amazed that people seem unable to see the difference between "A Max Fleischer Cartoon" and "A Famous Studios Production" as displayed in the credits.  For those not already familiar with the story, Paramount acquired the Fleischer Studios operations
in 1942 and continued all of their cartoon productions from that point under their management company, Famous Studios. It was Famous who produced the remaining eight shorts until 1944, most of which dealt with World War II themes, and others that did not.
As any true student of film history should know and understand,
the letterbox format that approximates the wide screen format pertains to films produced after 1952 when formats at at 2:1 or 1.85:1 ratio (the measurement of picture width to height) such as Cinemascope, Technirama, VistaVision, and Panavision came into being. Previous to this, the screen proportion was 1:33:1 as is the current television screen, not including the new HDTV screens. Therefore, it is impossible to offer the SUPERMAN cartoons in a format such as letterbox when the widescreen format did not exist at the time the cartoons were produced.  And any attempt to present them in a letterbox format risks cropping the top and bottom of the full screen image.  At the same time, there has been a VHS release with very sharp images that has transferred at less than full screen proportion, leaving a black boarder around the frame, and calling it letterboxing.  This is not letterboxing, and actually is cheating the viewer of about 3-5% of the full picture area.  So in the name of historical accuracy, expect to see the full TV screen area filled to truly represent what the producers wanted audiences to see.
Finally regarding the soundtracks, I do not understand why this company continues to tamper with the sound.  Why bother to retain the integrety of the picture and alter the tracks, and actaully make them worse?  Allowing for the limitations of optical recording 60 years ago, the dynamic range was still incredibly good, and nearly as good as what we have today, if good elements are available and the transfers are done by qualitied technicians who know how to get the best out of those soundtracks.  So if such great pains are taken to present the picture, why not for the sake to total historical integrety give the same attention to the soundtracts as they were originally produced?