OVER THE TOP

There have been many movies about sports but I don't know of to many about arm wrestling, this one is. This is your classic 80's movie with an over the top [meant to say that] pop rock soundtrack and cheesy lines, man I love em. Also this is your typical Sly Stallone film with an inspirational message and all about over coming the odds. I know what you are thinking that is every Sly flick, but hey it is Sly. When we watched this again the other night after many years we called every thing in the film, all things 80's that is.

The film follows Lincoln Hawk [Sly] has he is on a mission to make amends with the son he left behind many moons ago. The boy's mother is on her death bed and wants him to get to know his son before she goes. Of course the kid wants nothing to do with his estranged father and tries at all costs to get away. But as their journey counties he begins to get along with him that is until his mother dies before they get to see her. So they drift apart once more as the boy's grandfather has hired people to get the boy back with him. On top of all that Sly needs to win an arm wrestling tournament to get some money to buy his own rig.

Sly is Sly and acts as such which for this type of movie is great, don't see how you could go wrong with the Sly. Robert Loggia is great as the grandfather in the way of the father and son, he does an excellent job. Susan Blakely is great for the small amount of time she is on screen but unfortunately her character dies but that kick starts the movie kinda. David Mendenhall is surprisingly good in this film since most child actors are not all that great and of course Terry Funk is always fun no matter what.

Director Menahem Golan does a great job I think with an arm wrestling movie even if it is "over the top"; sorry I had to say that again. The four writers for the film including Sly himself make things interesting but it is your typical 80's action b dialogue, got to love it. Still this is a very predictable film as any one who remembers anything from the 80's can call everything in this without having seen it before. The first thing I said when we started this was that there had to be a song that actually uses "over the top" as lyrics in the chorus, yup there it is in the end. The first thing my brother called was that at some point the title of the film would be used as lines in the film, yep there they are.

This is a fun "over the top" 80's type flick that any Sly fan will enjoy, plus it has Terry Funk in it man. How could anything with the Funker in it be bad, I can't think of any. This is a fun weekend flick and pretty much a rental unless you want the Sly collection; I got it cheap so it was cool.