This DVD is a suitable and fitting release for what is, for me at least, one of the best films ever made. For over 20 years, ever since I first saw it, Solaris has been my favourite film, and I have steadfastly bought each new video and DVD release, and this is definitely the definitive version.
Of its many strengths, by far the greatest is that the film is entirely on one disc, unlike the Russian release (that was also released by Artificial Eye in the UK). Another great strength is the inclusion of the 9 deleted and alternate scenes. I was utterly amazed to find that the DVD would contain these, especially as you have this feeling that anything cut on a film of this kind will never be seen or located again. Interestingly, and unlike the typical deleted scenes of Hollywood films, these scenes could easily be reinserted in the film without damaging it or slowing it down at all (my wife would argue that you can't slow this one down!).
The interviews are superb, and it is interesting to compare the interview with Natalya Bondarchuk on this release with that on the original Russian DVD. This is so much better and more interesting, a real insight into the film. How amazing to hear her say that she didn't recognise a scene she was in because Tarkovsky and Yusov had rendered so much beauty and physical detail in the shot. Wonderful!
It is timely that as Soderbergh's undoubted cop-out is about to hit the screens that this release reminds the public of what film-making is all about. There is a tendency to think that Tarkovsky's films are very intellectual and 'arty', certainly 'Stalker' could be accused of that, although it is undeniably both moving and beautiful. But the strength and the power of Solaris is that it is not intellectual, but emotional. It is a love story, a moving, haunting tale of lost love and longing. If Lem disliked it it is because it replaced his intellectuality with the human element. I for one believe that Tarkovsky was utterly right. 
This is a beautiful and moving film, and no serious film collection should be without it. Take advantage of Criterion's hard work and buy this DVD. You'll never buy a better one!