The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was a big dissappointment.  Then I started to think about it.  Usually, when I dislike something for no  reason that I can really put my finger on, it is because it has challenged  my expectations in some way.  For this reason, I like to re-examine my  feelings about those things.  And often, after reflection, I realize what  it is that disturbs me, and I realize why the thing that I hate addresses  that, and often it makes me enjoy the thing I "Hated"  more.
This movie is like that. One of the things that bothered me so much  was the lack of reason for the alien attack, and their resulting brutality.  A little after I watched the movie, I found out why this is so, while  reading a book "Lies My Teacher Told Me," which related the  following tale concerning Columbus:
In 1492, Colomubus landed in what is  now the Dominican Republic.  He got off of the boat, and read a short  proclimation that said (essentially,)  "I am taking this place over,  you must now immediatly renounce your pagan gods, convert to Christianity,  claim Isabella of Spain as your ruler, or I will make you slaves, and you  will work until you die, and I will not be held responsible for your  souls."  Columbus read this proclimation in Spanish, which of course,  none of the native people of the Dominican Republic could understand.  They  greeted him with a huge party, and Columbus proceeded to decimate the  natives.  The Spaniards forced the Indians to work, and rode on their backs  rather than walk from place to place.  Does this not strike you as  ridiculous? The same kind of mindless destruction for the sake of  destruction that the movie portrays?
What disturbed me about the movie  was it's quiet censure of our society, our modern world, our own arrogance.  In this movie we get our comeuppance, and it is delivered with the same  heartless passion that our uncivilized ancestors imposed on the indigenous  populations. There is no why or how, there is only the relentless onslaught  of a technologically superior race that finds glee in our destruction, who  no doubt, intend to usurp our world.
In the War of the Worlds, we are  saved by Influenza, in real life, Influenza and small pox, brought by  Euroopeans, decimated indigenous populations.  Wells original parallel was  intended to be a subtle irony, a tribute to our tiniest, and most  unobtrusive weapon.  
Here we are saved by Slim Whitman's "Indian  Love Call," an outrageous twist, but not one without it's irony.  Whitman wrote the song as an appeal to the romanticization of the American  Indian that occurred in the late 50's. It bears no real ties to native  american lore or tradition, other than it's name.  It is a romantic view of  a past that never happened, our "plasticization" of the very  people we've killed.  Isn't it odd that we would be saved by a cheesy  lounge song written about a people we killed with smallpox and war, while  we are being decimated with no hope of survival, in much the same manner?  Its doubly ironic that something so insidious, both in sound, and concept,  should turn out to be invariably fatal to our invaders.  Our bad taste  killed them. 
I might suggest to those that are easily angered when their  expectations of an "Independance Day" style romp are foiled, that  they examine their dissappointment and ask themselves, "why did this  bother me so much?"  When you do, you'll often find that you are being  challenged to think or look at a thing in another light by your brain,  which is often smarter than you might think.