If you are looking for an Italian film resplendent with beauty and passion, then check out `Facing Windows.`  A story of regret and redemption, it smolders with exquisite faces and tempted, tortured hearts.  After all, it is Italian.

The comely Giovanna Mezzagiorno plays Giovanna, a working girl worn down by the frustrations of life post-honeymoon.  Her loving husband, Filippo (Filippo Nigro), jumps from one unskilled position to another, while Giovanna helps out with her dull accounting job.  For extra money, Giovanna follows her baking passion and sells her pies and other tasty creations.

While out shopping, Giovanna and her husband come upon an elderly man suffering from apparent delusions.  Despite her protests, Giovanna`s compassionate husband invites the man into their cramped apartment until they can make sense of his identity. This mysterious stranger, known as `Simone` soon becomes a fixture in Giovanna`s home.  The film jumps between the vivid flashbacks of `Simone`s` past and Giovanna`s troubled present and uncertain future.  In doing so, `Windows` can be a dizzy ride.  Yet, for those willing to forgo the traditional narrative arc, the film ultimately rewards.

As `Simone` opens up to his benevolent hosts, his former self takes shape.  A Roman Jew lucky enough to survive the Nazi occupation, he is tortured by past memories and survivors` guilt.  The thorn in his side is a young man he loved during the war years, albeit in secret, whom he failed to save from the Nazi round-up.  `Simone, ` is actually the name of this beloved.  The stranger, David, agonizes over having kept his relationship with Simone a secret before the world.  He laments having saved those who would have rejected their love.

The great Italian actor Massimo Girotti plays David with a wounded dignity.  David is but a shell of his former self broken by the horrors of the Holocaust and even more so, by his lacerating guilt over Simone.
As Giovanna learns more about David, she herself struggles with her own dilemma.  Captivated by her handsome neighbor (Raoul Bova), she spies on his seemingly trouble-free existence from her `facing window. ` As her marital woes continue, Giovanna draws ever closer to the life played out in her neighbor`s apartment.

As the film bounces between its opposing stories, both guest and host are united in a common love, that of pastry baking.  David was a pastry chef himself until darkness swallowed his life and love.  Giovanna longs to turn her passion into a life but feels trapped in a turbulent present.  Amidst towers of sumptuous sweets and torrents of chocolate, David imparts the painful wisdom of his broken life.  He urges Giovanna to `demand a better life, ` one of love rather than of safety or escape.  What this means for Giovanna as she slowly slips towards an adulterous affair is the central question of the film.  Will she follow David`s heartbreaking example or will she learn from his mistakes?

Such complexity simultaneously enriches the film and confuses the viewer.  The flashbacks from David`s life require concentration to understand, whereas Giovanna`s infatuation is poorly examined.  When she finally meets the `neighbor, ` she acts distant and taken aback.  Is she afraid to confess her infatuation or does she regret it altogether? Mezzagiorno makes Giovanna`s dilemma palpable.  We see a creature torn between desire and responsibility to her family.  In one of the film`s most intense moments, Giovanna, thinking herself safe from further temptation, races down a stairwell to catch a final glimpse of her departing lover.

With its tangled stories, `Facing Windows` has a surreal, dream-like quality to it where things make sense only long after the credits roll.  With her final decision, Giovanna appears to have learned something from David`s cryptic lessons, lending the film a rather safe ending.  Yet, the interplay between David and Giovanna captivates as they unveil each others` masks and hidden desires.  A murky tale of temptation and regret `Facing Windows` will lure you in with its voyeuristic charms.