"The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" (1962) is essentially John Ford's "High Noon". A collection of western film conventions operating on dual levels; at once both reverent and cynical. Although not his last film it is considered the final film in which he invested much of himself; turning it into a commentary on the mythic topics and worlds of his preceding films.

Superficially it is yet another "passing of the old frontier" movie and it literally juxtaposes Ford's mythic west (an extended flashback) with a recognizably modern west (which bookends the story and serves as a sort of commentary or voice-over). Most comments about the film focus on the contrasts between these two worlds and the possible meanings inherent in Ford's relative treatment of them. Ford is showing the viewer what happens when individuality is subordinated to the common good; then asking whether the results (i.e. progress) are worth what has been lost. And he stacks the deck a bit, undercutting his celebration of untrammeled individualism by including an individual more corrosive than mythic.

Yet "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" is not a simple superficial film; despite often being dismissed by those who fail to pick up on its multi-dimensionality. So here are some random things to look for as you view this great film:

Note how like a myth, pretty much everything about the early Shinbone is a larger than life parody of film western conventions. Liberty Valance's evil, the cowardly bluster and bumbling incompetence of the sheriff (Andy Devine), the size of the steaks, the perpetually intoxicated newspaperman (Edmund O'Brien) with a passion for the truth. And contrast all this with the modern town: "This is the West, sir. When the legend becomes fact, print the legend."

Watch throughout for the use of paper to punctuate the moments of extreme melodrama. Valance tears up a law book and later stuffs a newspaper into the editor's mouth. Rance (James Stewart) crumples up the newspaper he is holding when told about Valance's plans. Scott (the modern editor) crumples up his notes and discards the truth for the myth.

Observe how the lawless evil of the early Shinbone is associated with the night while the modern town is all about the day. The overplayed Valance is a nocturnal figure; so extreme as to be much like a nightmare or hallucination to those who encounter him. And he is typically accompanied by his cackling and squealing sidekick/minion Floyd (Strother Martin); a character almost surreal in his sleaziness.

Doniphon (John Wayne) and Liberty are linked to horses; not to the train, which is the catalyst for change, nor to the stagecoach or wagon. Individual horses are the means of mobility for the individualist, the rest of the characters get around by public transport. Liberty is hauled around in a wagon for his final trip to graveyard. A drunken Doniphon (not capable of riding his own horse) is driven back to his ranch in Pompey's (Woody Strode) wagon. The robber and the horseman are both becoming obsolete.

Note Fords use in the score of what some call the "Ann Rutledge Theme," (from his 1939 film "Young Mr. Lincoln"). Hallie (Vera Miles) is Tom Doniphon's Anne Rutledge, the circumstances of their estrangement are different but equally permanent. And the music first plays when Hallie visits Tom's abandoned ranch at the beginning of the film. During the extended flashback you hear it several times as the romance between Hallie and Ranse progresses; implicitly signaling a receding of the Hallie-Tom connection.

The Hallie-Tom estrangement gives the film a great deal of depth. It is a mirror image of the events in "East of Eden", as this time the heroine gives up what she had been denying herself and embraces what she thinks she should be. Don't misinterpret Tom's motivation toward Hallie, he is not doing things to win Hallie's love but because he loves Hallie (communicated by the early scene where he watches her working in the kitchen). The former motivation would be simplistic; the latter opens up a host of interesting and ironic interpretations.

Miles essentially plays the same character she played for Ford six years earlier in "The Searchers" (1956). Laurie was Ford's most enduring heroine and if you watch that film you can see why he choose a reprise for "Liberty Valance". And while not as fresh looking as in the earlier film Miles is able to sell the part. Wayne could not have passed for her love interest in the earlier film and can barely do so here. That he is able to make the romantic elements credible is a good argument for calling this his finest performance; at the very least the segments immediately following the shooting are his all-time best work. His Ethan Edwards character in the earlier film had also willingly given up a girl he loved in the interest of her happiness. Miles is better in her scenes with Wayne than with Stewart. The classics are the occasions when Tom tells Hallie how pretty she is when angry. Her reaction later in the film is meant to be contrasted with the first occasion, and to subtly convey to the viewer Hallie's growth since the introduction of Ranse into the Shinbone community.

Miles in this film has always reminded me physically of Shirley Jones in "Oklahoma", and it is interesting how watching these two actresses juggle two men soon achieves a dominance over the other dynamics in both features. Neither were typical Hollywood glamour queens but their well-scrubbed persona's were a nice fit for playing this type of heroine. Note also how as in "The Searchers" Ford frames Wayne in a doorway for his final parting shot, symbolically separating him from being a part of the film's nuclear family.

Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.