What if you would manage to reach the far edges of the galaxy, and you would not find a lifeless void, or strange cultures, or the perfect predator, or super fast spaceships with laser-guns and warp-drives, or even amiable life forms ready to nurse you into some higher state of consciousness? What if what you would find is a mirror to yourself: the tangible, incarnated moment of your life that was the most affecting of all? It could be anything from heartbreaking tragedy to regretted harmful intent: from your lost wife, to your son who is alive but out of your reach, to even yourself. What if you wake up and it lies right beside you in your bed, unaware of what it is and how it confronts you? What would you do, and how would you handle the confrontation? That is Solaris.
Solaris confronts you with the vanity of supposing you could handle the universe around you, when you cannot handle even yourself. That question is what makes me love this film and the original novel by Stanislaw Lem - though they are not interchangeable. 
And that is the foremost reason people do not love this film. Steven Soderbergh's movie takes this very philosophical theme and enhances it, while abandoning the scientific. I will give an example. In the novel, the surface of Solaris is covered by a weird, liquid substance, a little like water but it behaves. It acts as if it lives, but its purposes are utterly beyond comprehension, if there is a purpose at all. In the film, Solaris is a luminescent gas giant, and the crew never once settles down to discuss the scientific aspects of it. In the novel, chapters are dedicated to these matters. This is but one adaptation. Inevitably, it scares off the purists; but ask yourself: does an adaptation inevitably make for a bad film? 
I already said I love this film, but how can I - having cared for the novel as much as I do? Well, I care for the film's visual storytelling for instance, and the "Vangelisesque" soundtrack, and the sets, and the acting. But when I read the novel, the philosophical theme is above all the most impressive. The screenwriters have taken, added to, and deleted from Lem's original story, but they left this core question intact. Accurately: they have done more than that: they have amplified it. And I feel this question cannot be amplified enough.
For these reasons, I give this film four stars.
Bram Janssen,
The Netherlands