Where do I start? This review is for Restored Director's Cut.

Manhunter is the penultimate movie. Michael Mann's best ever. Without a doubt he took this adaptation and took it to an entirely different level. The art direction, cinematography and acting are all first rate. No, it did not have the biggest budget, no it did not do well in the box office. So what? Every character conveyed emotion and I must say that I cannot get the movie out of my head. Part of the reason is because it was partially shot in my town. Another reason has to do with the style the movie was shot in. Mann knows his stuff and he conveys the power of the Harris's novel with aplomb!

Fans of Miami Vice will recognize character actors who guest starred on the show. Dennis Farina, Michael Talbott and a few others as well. The colors and art direction were remarkable too. Will Graham is an FBI man, but comes across as a regular guy which makes him likeable. He even empathizes with the killer as a child, saying: (In Another Version Of DVD) "This started from an abused child, a battered infant..." There is no doubt that the cerebral nature of this film went over the head of those who reviewed it in 1986. Yet it was the first movie of its kind that dealt with forensic analysis of crime scenes.

The soundtrack of the movie was incredible. I'm lucky a buddy at work was able to download the soundtrack for me from the internet. The music has unfortunately been out of print for decades. Each song captures the essence and soul of every scene and prepares the viewer for the emotions the characters are experiencing. Heart Beat and In-A-Gad-Ad-A-Vida are the best songs from the soundtrack.

I have not seen the remake Red Dragon, but I will say this: Tom Noonan's Francis Dollarhyde cannot be beat. Simply put, he is the most terrifying non-horror character I have ever seen. He plays the sinister heavy with a flair that I've never before seen. He plays similar roles in The Pledge and in Mystery Train. But it is this role where he shines. Ironically, his character is not introduced until halfway into the movie, yet he more than holds his own and by the end of the movie he takes out two cops and seriously injures two more. Wow! Noonan's height, weight and speech add to his malevolence in this film. Yet he is also a sad man. His background is not discussed in the movie, yet it had to have been a savage childhood. But like Graham says in another cut, "As an adult he is irredeemable."

I like this movie so much that I plan to purchase the other DVD versions. Buy this DVD and you will not be too disappointed. The extra added scenes have some rough edges and sound dropouts, but for me they were a bonus as I'd not seen them before. A couple lines were taken out that I did not care for, but all in all this is still a Five-Star show. Get it and you won't be disappointed.

A. Nathaniel Wallace, Jr.