Reading and writing are two of the most enjoyable pass-times that I have. Another entertainment medium that I enjoy as often as possible, is movies. Last night I had the pleasure to view, for the first time, "Tears of the Sun" starring Bruce Willis, (A.K. Waters), portrays a Special OPS Commander who enters the war torn wilds of Nigeria to retrieve Dr. Lena Hendricks, (Monnica Bellucci) before disaster strikes the missionary where she works. Refusing to leave with Waters unless any and all able bodied patients are allowed to come with her, Waters is faced with a conscientious decision. A conscientious decision Waters has  never allowed himself to face before. The value of a human life and the fact that he really does care. At first, bent on treachery and successfully performing his mission, Waters leads the cumbersome troupe through a rugged and harsh terrain in order to reach the prearranged L Z. Along their way, both Waters and his men discover something about themselves and the people who have placed their lives in their hands. What transpires is visually graphic and often horrific. But War truly is Hell on Earth.
If you're looking for a movie with a happy ending, this isn't the movie for you. But if you want to see a Hollywood version of the Hell that War truly is, and what the real life victims of a war torn country must face on a daily basis, this is the movie for you.
Willis has never been an actor to do a tap dance around the harsh reality of life. Though the man does have a humorous side, as we've seen in the movie "Blind Date", a rollicking flick also starring Kim Basinger. This is one of my all time favorite movies, ever made. If you haven't seen it, see it soon. You won't regret spending the money. Another favorite of mine, which Willis himself admits to being one of his few box office failures is "Hudson Hawk". Again if you love the humorous side of Willis, this movie is a must see. One my children and I enjoy watching together. "Hudson Hawk" is a box office hit at my house.