Caution: this review contains spoilers.  Read at your own risk.
I loved this film enough to buy it on DVD which I so very rarely do.  I've only purchased 3 or 4 movies in my entire life.  This was the best of them.
The movie depicts a young woman, Lee, who self-mutilates and ends up in a mental hospital.  Upon release she is far from cured because no one has understood that her proclivity for self-mutilation is really a cry for love not help.  The love that she is seeking is not the vanilla love that a strange friend (Peter) offers her.  Lee needs to be understood and in order to do that she has to meet someone who realizes that Lee really wants a BDSM relationship where she can play out her submissive desires for discipline and, when needed, punishment.  Under the over watchful eye of attorney E. Edward Grey, Lee finds her mentor and eventually her Dominant lover.
It seems that neither Lee nor Edward really understands their own BDSM needs but as the story unfolds, they come to understand what they each lack and what the other can supply.  When Edward fires Lee, we see that he does not really understand his own insecurity.  Far from being a self-assured Dominant, Edward is not really sure how he feels about himself or about Lee.  Lee, on the other hand, hesitates for as long as it takes to don a wedding gown, and then has a moment of clarity.
She runs out of the gown fitting knowing what and who she wants.  Peter who has proposed marriage would be a ho hum lover and husband sending Lee right back to the sharp edges and cutting herself anew.  She knows that she wants and needs Edward and proceeds to run directly into his office and plants herself in his desk chair until he understands how much she loves him and how much he loves her.  It takes him three days of Lee not leaving the desk chair even to urinate.
In the end, Edward sees what Lee has discovered.  They are made for each other.  They may not be perfect but they are perfect for each other.
We should all be so lucky.