The opening of this movie is pretty much impossible to resist: many miles offshore, fishermen drag a man out of the Mediterranean Sea, unconscious and riddled with bullet wounds. There's nothing to identify the stranger, but the doctor on board finds a small microfilm while surgically removing the bullets.

When the man regains consciousness, he can't remember who or where he is and what happened to him. His only solid connection to his past is the microfilm, which contains a long string of numbers that sucks him into a whirlwind intrigue of black ops assassinations, government coverups, and corrupt politicians...and he's the epicenter of it all.

First, I think they did an awesome job translating the first half of the book into a movie. I think it would've been VERY hard to pare down the entire book into one screenplay, unless the movie was going to be 3 hours long.

The premise of this story is just plain fun. Since the beginning of civilization, Man has wondered if he has lived before and if so, why he can't remember. The Bourne Identity takes that ancient mystery and makes a great spy thriller out of it.

The plot is structured very well and the pacing is impeccable. It speeds up and slows down in the perfect spots and really builds the tension and mystery as you move through it. It was also intricate enough to follow and make you try to actively figure it out, but not so complex as to overwhelm you with details.

The acting is superb across the board. It's hard to imagine someone playing Bourne better than Damon. He completely steals the show.

If you're a guy, it's only a matter of time before you wish you were Jason Bourne. He's tough, smart, and incredibly resourceful, but not invincible enough to make you roll your eyes. Although the prime antagonist clashes with Bourne indirectly, through the proxy of other assassins and government agents dispatched to eliminate Bourne, he's capable and intelligent, and makes for a good protagonist vs. antagonist battle.

I'd be remiss to not mention the fight scenes, as they are some of the best I've ever seen. The choreography and editing is perfect--you really feel like you're watching highly trained, brutal killers just explode on each other with precision and speed. If you end up skipping back to rewatch them--especially the fight in the apartment--you're not alone. :)

If you like a fast-paced, realistic spy mystery/thrillers, then you'll love this movie.