What a complete and udder mess of a movie this turned out to be! My niece insisted that I watch this movie and now because of her, I am warning all the other uncles of this world whose niece want to see this... DON'T DO IT! Ask her to drop the DVD and slowly back away.

This film missed so many comedic cues that not even a ten story building full of pool halls could have saved it. First of all, the casting was atrocious. Expectations aside, I was hoping that Jamie Kennedy would have had at least a tenth of the excitement and flexibility of Jim Carrey's rendition of The Mask. Not only was he dull but watching him do comedy was like watching dinosaurs struggle in a tar pit. The dance number was agonizing and it never captured the true spirit of The Mask. I have seen spoons bend with more flexibility by Uri Gellar than JK's character. Loki wasn't any better. Alan Cumming tried to channel the essence of Jim Carrey but was also painful to watch. Neither Cumming or Kennedy were as animated or rubbery or funny as The Mask needed to be. The rest of the cast had so much potential but were extrmemly undeveloped. In it's wake, it tried to revive itself through CGI bits in a cartoon-like manner but made it appear like some film students sophmoric project. Believe me, it's not the CGI artist's fault, they just did as they were told. The real fault lies further than this.

Who was in charge of the editing?! So many scene left me behind due to its lack of cohesion. I don't believe Ginsu could have sliced the celluloid any worse! The continuity made me so uncomfortable like the anticipation of a band-aid being pulled off my hairy arm. Why do I feel like the editors had to hurry up and get this film ready so they could work on better projects? Because of this, you were left dangling and hoping that someone would yell "Fire" in the movie theater or at home so you could just run away from this slasher of a film.

This sequel, which took way to long to create, had potential. The plot was interesting and with the right casting, could have stood well on its own from its predecessor. When the movie ended, I thought to myself (as I wiped tears from my eyes), "why did they do this?" I coulda been a contender.

After I explained all this (and more) to my neice, she looked beaten down and disappointed. "Well, I thought it was funny." she declares to me. Then I asked her if she ever saw the original movie that this sequel was based upon. "No" was the answer I received. I shook my head, put my arm around her and said, "Let me show you why I believe this movie stunk like yesterday's trash."

Kids. Won't they ever learn?