"I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship."
Since I'm not particularly good at reviews, I'll make this easy on you and I, and just divide it into two categories.
Episodes:
The first five episodes of the 26-ep series are on the first (of seven) DVD. The animation is crisp, bright, sharp, clean, colorful, vibrant, and all those other adjectives that people use to describe great animation. The character designs are also very nice, as are the mecha (I especially love the Allegretto). On to the storyline: even though these are only the first episodes, they aren't afraid to get into the mysteries right away. It already seems like the plot is revving up to something, and we're only 5 episodes in. I hope the feeling crescendos (no pun intended) all the way through the series.
The English dubbing was handled very well, too. Megumi and Haruka's voices sound kinda... odd when they yell or have very high-pitched lines, though. Otherwise, a very solid dub. The Japanese cast is very, very nice too. Music is above average as well. "Hemisphere" and "Yume no Tamago," the opening and ending themes, respectively, both fit the show well, and so does the vast majority of the background music.
Extras:
The extras on the disc are sparse, but good. Other than Cowboy Bebop, this is the only series that I've appreciated the clean openings-closings for. The Japanese trailer was very cool too. The liner notes were very nice as well. The character sketches, info bites and interviews were a nice touch, and the first and last pages of the notes looked very cool with the different type of paper. 
Since I bought the Special Edition DVD, I also got a nice box for the series, and a T-Shirt. The box is... well, a box. The art on it is very nice, though. The shirt is pretty cool, too. It's just your basic white XL T-Shirt, with the artwork from the DVD cover on it, only RahXephon is in black and white instead of color. My one gripe is that the way the image is printed, it doesn't seem like it will stand up to too many washings before it starts to "crack". So wear it sparingly.
All in all, a great first DVD for what is shaping up to be a great series. I can't wait until May.