As much as I am a huge fan of MST3K, this set is easily one of the strongest DVD collections that Rhino has put out. With three episodes from the Joel/Comedy Central era and one from the Sci-Fi era, this set will keep you occupied for so long, what with repeated viewings and all.

The set kicks off with "Hercules Unchained", with a plot line I've never heard in the Greek myth stories: Hercules goes on a mission and drinks the "water of forgetfulness" and, you guessed it, forgets everything about his life, and is lured to some...secret kingdom of some sort. Joel and the bots have a real fun time with this one, as in one of the host segments, they make fun of the phrase "water of forgetfulness" with the food they eat and drink, like asparagus of happiness or something like that. 8/10

"Hercules Against The Moon Men" is a little stronger than the previous film, although it would have been best to not compile two Hercules in one set. Still, this movie is worth-watching. Granted, only a few of the riffs have been repeated from the previous Hercules flick, but it also contains some much stronger riffs than the other. This film involves Hercules on a mission to find out what the fuss is about with, you guessed it, the Moon Men. It has one of the funniest host segments: The Pants Song, sung by Joel and the bots, making fun of the costumes worn by the characters in the film. 8.5/10

While the Sci-Fi era may be considered to be Ganon's Sacred Realm for MST3K, you still get a gem every now and then. "Prince of Space" is one of those gems from that era. Granted, the host segments aren't really up to par, but the really cheesy film, as well as riffings from Mike and the bots really make up for it. This is your below-average, Saturday morning, children's Japanese superhero flick, that would better told in just a half hour than stretching it to an hour and a half. Memorable riffs pop up now and then such as "Krank 'wh*re'?", and the riffs run at a fairly consistent rate, keeping you occupied for quite a while. 7.5/10

This set goes out with a bang. That bang is "The Killer Shrews", one of my favorite episodes. I do believe cheesy monster flicks are so easily funny to poke at, making some of the funniest episodes of the series and this one is no exception. The plot is simple: a couple guys are sailing on a boat and arrive at an island infested with giant shrews. Some great moments are present here, including the Killer Shrew song ("Killer Shrew, Killer Shrew, Don't know the difference from me and you..."), and the riffs are consistently hilarious, making this the real highlight of this set. 9/10

In addition, you'll also get a few bonus featurette riffings from Joel and the bots, including a rarely seen featurette, "Assignment Venezuela", all of which are worth watching.