Anyone who thinks this is merely a movie about a guy in a reality TV show who one day figures out its all a big lie - will be pleasantly surprised.
Carrey plays Truman Burbank, a man who's unknowingly growing up in a perfect town that's really a huge TV set in a reality TV series called 'The Truman Show'.  
To maintain the ongoing viewership of this reality show, its producer Cristoff (Harris) utilises control elements (actors, special effects) to condition Truman to lead his life around established parameters that form the general TV plot.  
For example, Truman's true love (Natascha McElhone i think) is purposefully edged out of his life by her 'father' (you can't see her anymore, she's going to Fiji) and Truman's eventual wife (Linney), when McElhone's character decides to tell Truman the truth about his role in the reality show. 
And when Truman expresses a desire to go to Fiji to find his love, his 'best friend' tells him there is no need to venture beyond their shores, that everything is so perfect the way it is, and that they can enjoy perfect sunsets every single day...  why ask for more, why go to Fiji?  
And when Truman shows early signs of adventure and decides to go sailing, Cristoff cooks up a storm at 'sea' and drowns his 'father' in an attempt to snuff out his quest for adventure.
But you just can't keep a good man down.  Eventually, the human spirit triumphs, despite all the negativity, assumptions and established parameters we face everyday and know as 'Life'.
Ironically, the millions of viewers who have grown up with Truman and seen his highs and lows on reality TV, cry and cheer for Truman when he eventually triumphs and leaves the movie set.  He leaves everything that is perfect but empty behind, and steps into the big black unknown alone, but full of hope and expectancy.  The finale will get you crying and cheering along with the movie's TV audience.
Quite simply, The Truman Show is about
- questioning assumptions and what is seemingly the truth
- how everyone loves a hero but doesn't dare to be one themselves
- how fulfilling dreams take courage and faith in the face of negativity and adversity
- asking yourself what you can change in your life
Peter Weir ties together these life lessons without being overly didactic - which is why many people miss the point of this movie.
The Truman Show is certainly an underrated, misunderstood movie that has been intelligently and poignantly delivered.  Go see it today.