The Rundown

 The Rock has nailed himself another movie. The Rundown stars Dwayne Johnson, a.k.a. The Rock, as Beck the "retrieval expert." This  movie was much better than last years The Scorpion King, and definitely had more of a plot.

 Beck's mission takes him deep into the Amazon, to a town called El  Dorado. El Dorado is run by a ruthless warden named Hatcher (Christopher  Walken), who has turned his people into slaves. He runs the kind of town  where you work all day, and hand in all of your earnings at the end in exchange for food, and shelter. Beck is assigned to bring a treasure hunter
named Travis (Sean William Scott) back to his father in L.A. Obviously he doesn't wan to go back, so he wrecks their Jeep, and sends them down a hill, and deep into the jungle. Now their stuck, and the movie takes time for some humorous fights with village people, and crazy monkeys. This part of the movie gives us a twenty minute humor break until Christopher Walken's
character arrives, and terrorizes the village people they are staying with.

 There is also another sub-plot about a golden cat statue that Hatcher wants as well, and this gives reason to capture a few people and create tension. Everyone has something different they want to use it for, Travis wants to sell it on eBay, Mariana (Rosario Dawson) a local bar tender, wants to use it to help her people, and Beck doesn't care either way. The only thing he's interested in is getting back home, and opening his own Italian restaurant. This movie makes a classic example of Christopher Walken's line: "Hero wears a normal hat, sidekick wears a funny hat, villain wears an ugly hat." And Hatcher's hat is truly ugly, I wouldn't be caught dead in it. But I think Hatcher's only reason to wear his hat is to cover up his hideous hair-do.

 Overall, the movie was pretty funny, and had some great scenery; but some of the fight scenes were over the top, and there was clearly some wire action going on. In some scenes, the Rock will be beaten to a pulp, then stand up and smile, revealing one or two bruises. The movie got a little old after a while, too.

Rated PG-13 for adventure violence, and crude dialouge. Fist fights, knife fights, and shootouts. Your classic adventure movie. Not too graphic of course. A little crude humor here or there too. Not too crude, though. A bit of language as well.

-Austin Boggs