Leatherheads is a comedy about the early days of professional football.  In the 1920s, college football was overwhelmingly more popular than professional.  Dodge Connelly (Clooney) is a professional player who hopes to change this.  After his Duluth Bulldogs are disbanded due to lack of funds, Connelly comes up with a scheme to save the sport.  He lures Carter Rutherford (Krasinski) away from Princeton to play for the Bulldogs.  Rutherford is the highly popular college player who is hailed as a hero from World War I.  Things get off to a smashing start as the first team practice with Rutherford is moved to a nearby college facility in anticipation of the crowd.  More people (thousands) come to watch practice than were ever at a game (10-20).  It all seems to work according to plan with the exception of Lexi Littleton (Zellweger) who comes to probe the details of Rutherford's service records in World War I.  The remainder of the story focuses on how this conflict plays out.

There are plenty of good laughs in Leatherheads.  Clooney and Zellweger have most of the zippy exchanges.  Their first meeting is a "one upping" contest between the two.  There is also physical humor such as the ridiculous fist fight that Clooney and Krasinski execute in the middle section of the movie.  Clooney also works with some familiar actors from his experience on O' Brother Where Art Thou?.  You may recognize the Bulldogs' Coach Ferguson (Wayne Duvall) as having played Homer Stokes while drunken reporter "Suds" (Stephen Root) was Mr. Lund, the blind radio station manager.  Both are well cast and provide their own comic elements.

The story is interesting and entertaining.  The special features reveal much of the historic background of the story as well as the visual techniques.  There were no locations true to the 1920s football stadiums so they built facades and used CGI to create the crowds.  There is also a prank that Clooney played on the cast after filming was complete.  He made them go through the act of getting all muddy and prepped for shooting in front of a green screen only to call for a rap and inform them that they don't really need this scene.  The reaction of the other actors shows what a good rapport Clooney established with them.  Everyone had a good laugh, and Clooney's dress clothes wind up nice and muddy.

So, Leatherheads is an enjoyable movie if you like football and comedy.  However, I have to ask myself the question "Is this something that I would want to watch again in the future?"  Unfortunately the answer to this is probably not.  While it is worth the investment of time for a single viewing, it lacks anything truly compelling to make you come back again and again.

Overall Recommendation:  Rent