When I first saw the movie, I was very disappointed. I expected more of the animated series action and plotlines in this film. However, it grew on me. I've rented it, then have seen it a couple of times on the premium cable channels, and I have changed my opinion. Once you break the connection with the animated series, it gets better. Let it stand on its own. Charlize Theron is wonderful as Aeon. She's a woman's action heroine. Her portrayal of a driven well trained freedom fighter who uses her agility, toughness, and wits to survive and get the job done is what brings Aeon into a more fully rounded character. She brings life to Aeon more than the animated series did. Some critics say Theron is more disengaged, but I think it's that the character is focused on one thing and that all else, including her sister and compassion, is put to the side.

The other reason for women to see this is not just that it portrays a very strong woman in a heroic lead role, but it has Martin Csokas. I've had a massive crush on him since his portrayal of Borias in the Xena series. He has an understated acting style here, which is unusual for him (think Edward De Kere in Timeline). Some say it's a one note performance, but I think his subdued characterization of the despot Trevor Goodchild reflects the contemplativeness of Trevor, who feels guilt, remorse, and grief. Some say he's passive, but I say he's thoughtful. Another plus for his character - he allows women to protect and defend him (i.e., Aeon and Freya, his aide) without losing his masculinity. He looks gorgeous! Csokas can give a woman a hot flash (or 20!) for sure.

I also liked Sophie Okonedo as Sithandra. I've always like this actress in everything I've seen her in (Hotel Rwanda, the Jackal, etc.). She doesn't let Theron take over the screen. They are well matched.

Now for the problems. Having a more fully realized script would help. It can't be all art direction and special effects. It looks like a 3-D anime, which it great, but the story has about as many holes as Akira. However, the same complaint was lodged against Blade Runner in 1982 (overdone art direction with little plot development and cliched dialogue) and look at it now. It was a bomb when it came out and 25 years later it's a classic and is considered the best sci-fi movie ever. Not that Aeon Flux would get to that status, but give the film a chance.