I have come to a couple of conclusions:
1) This cartoon ranks in the my Top Ten feature-length cartoons of all-time among titles such as TRANSFORMERS: THE MOVIE, G.I. JOE: THE MOVIE, MULAN, NINJA SCROLL, THE LION KING, and THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE CHRISTMAS.
2) The folks at WB are cowards while at the same time, watching out for their "movie-going public". Yes, I agree that you should have made this film watchable for the kiddies, but there should have been a director's cut to please the REAL fans. I'm sick of being told by WB that Stanley Kubrick wanted digitally-enhanced characters in EYES WIDE SHUT to cover up the nudity and that the new Batman Beyond 'toon was a bit too dark and violent. It's time for them to get their heads on straight and stop deciding what we NEED to view.
That being said, the new Batman Beyond video is STILL a masterpiece. A hell of a ride that starts with a bang and keeps moving from there. Not to say that the whole thing is spectacular...the beginning is a bit silly as Batman attempts to foil a high-tech hardware robbery by the Jokerz-gang, but it is necessary to move the plot forward.
The music is a mix of Shirley Walker and techno-speed metal. While it keeps the new-style Batman in check, it reverts to the old animated-series...
And speaking of the old animated-series...an old enemy has returned. He's tanned, he's rested, and he's ready to go. Mark Hamill reprises his role as the one, the only Joker. And once again, he's ready to go to great lengths to put a smile on Gotham's face. 
Only problem is there's a new Batman who has ZERO experience dealing with the likes of the Joker and the old Batman is LONG since retired...and the more-than-obvious fact that the Joker should be DEAD or well into his 80's...
So, the mystery begins and the answers Terry McGinnis seeks go even DEEPER than he thinks. Answers that involve the facts behind Barbara Gordon and Bruce Wayne's bitterness, the fate of Tim Drake AKA Robin, and the Joker's ressurection.
Excellent animation, dark noir-ish mystery, a great story, and disturbing revelations earn this Bat-adventure a spot among some of the coolest animated epics of our time. Check it out.
A small mark off for the deleted scenes(or SCENE) being an animatic that didn't even get animated. Not ONLY would I have LIKED to see MORE deleted scenes, they could have at LEAST animated and ADDED it to the film. It would have made a difference. But, there is a fun little commentary track by the creators(who NEGLECT to mention the edits they made to the film) and the music video, "Crash" by Mephisto Odyssey and Static X, as well as a making-of documentary.
--Matt