Make no mistake; this is an abridged version of the original 1990 interpretation and in spite of this, I give it five stars. Peter Brook was the director of the Royal Shakespeare Company in London and of the International Centre for Theatre Research in Paris at the Bouffes du Nord. He has worked on many projects with Jean-Claude Carri&egrave;re (President of the French School for Film and Television), who wrote a mini-script of The Mahabharata (Methuen Drama, 1988) that Brooks translated into English. The play came to New York in a nine-hour full stage version (Brooklyn Academy of Music, 1987); it was followed by a six-hour film version which was telecast in Europe in 1989 and by PBS in 1991and has become a DVD collectors' item; I hope that IMAGE will come again with the 285-minute version. Now there is this three-hour version, which was projected in the movie theatres in the mid-nineties. Fortunately, this version conserves intact the original section on the Bhagavad-Gita, and includes the original documentary on "the making of The Mahabharata" (54 min.) as a bonus, which deserves to be seen. The cast is composed of a selected group of 42 international actors (India, USA, Burkina-Faso, Japan, Vietnam, Italy, England, Senegal, ....etc.). The music was composed by Toshi Tsuchitori; the songs were interpreted by Sarmila Roy (there is a beautiful CD with the film music:[...].

The Mahabharata is the longest poem ever written (three times as long as the Bible); it literally means ''the great story of the Bharatas,'' the legendary first king of India. Indian tradition says: "Everything in The Mahabharata is elsewhere; what is not there is nowhere". It begins when a young boy meets the author, the old poet Vyasa, who says that he is going to tell him the history of his ancestors ... the history of mankind: "if you listen carefully," he tells the boy, "at the end you will be someone else." Ganesh, who has a human body and an elephant head, becomes the poet's scribe.

The first chapters tell us the origins of the human species, Vyasa's birth and other major events. But the story focuses on King Santanu's family and the competition between his great-grandchildren, the Pandavas and the Kauravas, who are cousins, how they are growing up, how they are building their rivalries, and what kind of values, preferences and "life styles" they are developing. In a game of dice, the oldest brother of the Pandavas, Yudhishthira, loses everything, land, kingdom, brothers, and wife, against Shakuni (an in-law of the Kauravas) and goes into exile for 13years with his brothers and common wife. The Kauravas want to completely eliminate the Pandavas, but the Pandavas prefer a peaceful return. Both groups of cousins start a meticulous search for `pasupata', the `absolute weapon' (their version of Weapons of Mass Destruction -WMD), and war is inevitable. Krishna, the incarnation of Vishnu, tries to prevent the war between the cousin families. Being asked which side he will take, Krishna responds that if war takes place, his entire army can go to one group and himself to the other, but that he will not fight; Arjuna selects Krishna, who becomes his charioteer, and Duryodhana, the head of the Kauravas, chooses the army.

The central part of the long poem is The Bhagavad-Gita. Before the titanic battle between the two armies, there is a long moment of suspense (time here becomes space). It seems that the entire poem is a long preparation for the The Gita, one the most precious gems of all the yoga texts.  It takes place just before the big battle between the cousins. This is a private long dialogue between Arjuna and Krishna, while the two armies are eager to start killing each other. Arjuna refuses to fight, and tells Krishna that the mind is capricious, evasive, turbulent, and tenacious.  Krishna reminds him about his Dharma (`duty') and says that inaction and retirement are not an option; he should act, but should act with detachment. Then, he teaches Arjuna yoga, as the discipline of liberation.  The Gita has been compared to the Sermon on the Mount and is considered the quintessential text of the Vedas. At the end of the war, everybody dies, one by one, and at the end of the poem, the last survivor, Yudhishthira, recognizes that all is illusion.