I bought this dvd based solely on the rave amazon reviews.  For the most part, I was not disappointed.  Made by the same winning team who brought us 1995's Pride and Prejudice, the temptation to compare the two series was too great to resist...And that is where I think I went wrong.  While there was definitely a familiar "feel" to this mini-series in that the costumes and dialogue were fairly reminiscent of P&amp;P, the story was completely different--not that that's a bad thing.  However, at the end of the day, I simply felt the Wives &amp; Daughers storyline was less riveting and, ultimately, less interesting, than P&amp;P.  Of course, the fact that I consider P&amp;P to be the best movie/mini-series of all time may have unfairly prejudiced me against Wives and Daughters, but I started out with very good intentions.  I really did want to love this movie as much as I love P&amp;P!
The story centers around Molly Gibson, a young lady whose widower father decides to remarry when Molly is 17 so that she will have a mother.  Unfortunatley, his choice of bride is a rather silly woman for whom one feels as much sympathy as Mrs. Bennet of P&amp;P.  The stepmother has a daughter who, like her mother, is incredibly self-absorbed, but, unlike her mother, also at least TRIES to be a good person.  The two stepsisters, although completely different, actually care very much for each other, and this was nice to watch.  Of course, there's a male romantic interest, but he spends so much time off-camera that I didn't develop any particular attachment to him.  Accordingly, when he comes back after a long absence pining after Molly (after first pining for someone else because she's prettier), I felt very little compassion for him.  All in all, the story really is about Molly and how she handles the various situations in her life.  She's the only person you really care about (well, she and Osborne Hamley, but only because his life is so tragic).  And although that's nice, I don't think it warranted five hours.  For five hours, I was hoping to develop more attachment to more characters.  I was hoping that it would center more around the interactions and dynamics between various characters, rather than simply be "the world of Molly Gibson."  
In sum, it is fine entertainment, and something I enjoyed watching, but it is no P&amp;P.  I think if I hadn't read all these comparisons between the two series, I would've enjoyed Wives &amp; Daughters more.  As it is, though, I found it enjoyable, but not amazing. That said, I did find it compelling enough to watch all five hours in one sitting...So while I definitely recommend watching this, I recommend even more that you resist the temptation to compare this to P&amp;P.  This will save inevitable disappointment if you, like me, loved P&amp;P and are looking for another period piece to love just as much.