Absolutely one of the best and most intriguing sci-fi films I've seen in years, thank god for internet downloads, otherwise I doubt I ever would have even heard of this film. Having just acquired a new DVD player that will play DiVX-encoded movies, I set about trying to find various interesting sci-fi/fantasy films. Running across "IMMORTEL (AD VITAM)" I decided to look it up here on IMDb and see what the masses had to say about it.

Now, in my opinion, almost ANYONE can find something negative to say about ANY film - but the truly passionate ones come out and speak their mind when something truly moves them. Thus, I tend to ignore negative reviews and instead focus solely on the positive comments. And so it comes about that - even though I've been making use of this website for *MANY* years now - this will be my very first review of a film.

I disagree that this movie is solely for film purists and art lovers; although I definitely have a great appreciation for the indie sensibility and love a good art film, I also LOVE modern commercial animated flicks (though have never really gotten too heavily into anime) and have absolutely enjoyed most commercial science fiction such as Fifth Element, Blade Runner, Stargate (and the first few seasons of the TV show Stargate SG-1), Minority Report, the original 3 Star Wars, Red Planet, Mission to Mars, Screamers, Impostor, etc. Never having heard of Enki Bilal prior to this point (having only read one or two issues of Heavy Metal over the years, but have never really gotten too into them), I now see what a genius and visionary he is, and am now on a hungered quest to find everything he's done: the films TYKHO MOON and BUNKER PALACE HOTEL, as well as all of his graphic novels, including the Nikopol Trilogy (which will hopefully expand upon the universe he discusses in this film), The Beast Trilogy, and every other major piece of work from his arsenal of past releases.

As for this film: *INSTANTLY* one of my all-time favorites, I've already watched it twice in the past week, sitting transfixed and helplessly drawn into the gorgeous, sensual, deeply textured world he has envisioned. It's like the best of Fifth Element meets the best of Stargate, only far more artistic and soulful (not to denigrate either of those films; I loved both of them and watch each of them at least once every year or so just to reacquaint myself with their particular mythos.) But IMMORTAL? God, it's just GORGEOUS!! A little cryptic at first for those unfamiliar with Enki Bilal's work; I just sat there, jaws literally agape, utterly astonished at the detail and depth of the artwork. This is definitely a science fiction masterpiece - a film for anyone who enjoys serious atmosphere, texture, sensuality, artistry, and of course, bleak dystopian views of our future world. This is one movie which I will definitely be buying as soon as humanly possible - and all because of a chance download. Why the music & film industry doesn't openly embrace downloading is beyond me. I've discovered so many amazing films & music artists this way, and have since gone out to purchase all of my favorites to embrace the high quality and all of the wonderful extras that are available. Granted, I may be the exception to the rule, but with a VHS library of over 2500 films, 100+ laserdiscs, just under 500 DVD's and well over 3000 CD's, almost all of which I've purchased as a DIRECT result of things I've downloaded over the years, they are DEFINITELY not losing ANY money from this individual.

In closing... thank you, Enki Bilal, for creating such a stunning, resonant masterpiece. You put your heart and soul into this and I am forever in your debt for bringing IMMORTAL (AD VITAM) to the screen. [ PEACE - LOVE - UNITY - RESPECT ]