Dead & Breakfast, a movie that has been proclaimed to be the "U.S. answer to Shaun Of The Dead." Well... maybe that's a stretch. Shaun, considered a modern zombie classic by lovers of the horror genre everywhere, definitely overshadows Dead & Breakfast, but that doesn't mean it still isn't a worthwhile film.

At first viewing Dead & Breakfast seems to present itself as another standard horror film, a bevy of beauties and wisecracking wannabes naively delivering themselves to certain doom. All that's needed is an interesting way of dispatching them, one at a time, for 90 minutes, a cooked up lame back-story, and some fake two-dimensional characterizations.  I've seen it before, you've seen it before, in fact I defy anyone to say that they haven't seen the exact plot setup a hundred times over. But... here's where it gets fun.

The filmmakers seem to have said, "Hey, let's just take this and go nuts with it." and what you get is a wacky, over-the-top gore-filled comedy romp. It's not a spoof either (an overly tired plot device in its own right) but an original and daring piece of filmmaking.

After the first 20-mintues or so of setup, I was expecting nothing more than standard fare as it had been played straight for the entirety of that time. There were a few jabs at humor here and there, but they kind of went by me without much of a reaction. I was just starting to think, "What the heck is with this singing cowboy?" when we see our first death and David (played by Erik Palladino) begins his cartoon inspired running in place over a blood drenched floor. It's at this point that the movie begins to grow on me and I realize that, yes, there has been a joke playing along the whole time and it's been at my expense for falling for the standard old plot setup.

There are a lot of inventive "in-jokes" like that within the film. It was obviously anticipated that there would be an outcry of Romero purest naysayers screaming at the top of their lungs "Those aren't zombies! They're talking! They're not eating people!" and it is made clear by the exposition-spewing drifter (played by Brent David Fraser) that "They're not zombies!"

Many inspired scenes of comedic levity are thrown at you at various times and add a certain anticipation until the next big joke. By the end of the movie, the singing cowboy Randall Keith Randall (played by Zach Selwyn) had become may favorite part. His catchy songs with their ghoulish lyrics were laugh-out-loud funny. The Thriller-inspired dance number "We're gonna kill ya!" is my absolute favorite scene for its outright silliness.

Explaining the plot would be pointless, because as I have said it's standard. It's the humor you want to see. There's gore-a-plenty as well and done equally as over the top, lots of exploding heads, decapitations, and eviscerations to sate any gorehound. It's a rare treat when a movie can combine the elements of slapstick and gore and find such a successful balance between the two.

This film boasts a nice little cast, lots of familiar faces. David Carradine, who is enjoying something of a comeback, has what I thought was a rather uneventful cameo, until I saw that his daughter Ever Carradine has a prominent role as Sara. Diedrich Bader (of Drew Carey Show fame) has a funny cameo as French chef Henri. He plays up the French accent and his inability to say "Home" was quite amusing. The rest of the young cast have had roles from Buffy to Jeepers Creepers. There was no waste of talent on this film and the cast seems to be having an extremely fun time with the material.

I've seen some other reviews across the net for this movie that surprisingly have been negative. As far as I can tell it is because the reviewers got something that they weren't expecting, but with any good form of storytelling isn't that the point.