The 60th anniversary restoration of Citizen Kane on dvd is reconstructed from the best remaining film elements, and is absolutely gorgeous (especially breathtaking for those of us who might have been used to seeing the film on scratchy, broken up prints from tv).  The disc also contains two feature length audio commentaries, one by Welles friend, confidante, colleague, and biographer Peter Bogdanovich, and the other by Roger Ebert.

The Bogdanovich commentary combines directorial insights, many from conversations with Welles, inside perspectives that emanate from Bogdonavich's 18 year association with Welles, mixed with an odd, underlying haughty tone.  Why is not clear to me, but might be related to a certain protectiveness of Welles' legacy.  He is never critical of Welles, and presents him in only the best light as friend and artist.  Both have some experiences in common, although each career arrived at their respective stations for different reasons:  Welles career never recovered from the Hearst blacklist (plus Hollywood's  spite and jealously of the extraordinary contract the RKO gave him with unprecedented artistic freedom without having previously directed a film), and Bogdanovich never recovered from decades of mediocre work after a brilliant start ("Last Picture Show" is a great American film).  However, the content is very interesting, and at times captivating.  Despite my objections, I found his insights illuminating, and certainly added to my enjoyment and appreciation of the film.

The Ebert commentary (IMHO) is more disciplined and complete, and essentially similar to Roger's shot-by-shot analyses that he performs at The Virginia Film Festival (this year at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville from October 25-28) and like venues.  The presentation includes vignettes about Welles and the making of the film, plus Ebert's usual mise-en-scene analysis, which is both entertaining, accessible, and instructive.

I have always enjoyed Kane, but this pristine print makes viewing the film a nearly new experience.  Because Kane is such a great classic, folks can forget how entertaining it is:  there's something for everyone - drama, noir, irony, slapstick, humor, and even a song and dance number!  Happily, there are two discs:  the first contains the film, the two audio commentaries, and some other features.  The second includes and excellent special (originally aired on PBS) on The Battle Over Citizen Kane which chronicles the war between William Randolph Hearst and Orson Welles.

In any case, this is one of the great films, and a must for any collection.