3.5 stars

CIA agent Evelyn Salt (Angelina Jolie) is accused of being a Russian spy by a Russian spy named Orlov.  Salt denies being a Russian spy, but her counter intelligence colleagues are divided about whether or not this is true.  She makes a break for it, escaping from her colleagues.  The movie follows Salt as she uncovers the truth behind Orlov's accusation, all while dodging pursuit from numerous, heavily armed U. S. agents.  The action is intense, and plentiful.  I think all aspects of Jolie's portrayal of Salt are believable, and well done.  The film does fail in some points.

Part of the plot near the end of the theatrical release is sketchy.  A witness is left alive, one whose testimony would be fatal to their attacker.  This is addressed in the director's cut.  U. S. agents shooting at Salt in situations crowded with civilians, and in traffic, stretches credibility for me.  Next, there are too many happy (for Salt) coincidences during Salt's escape from the U. S. agents.  Four different vehicles -- perfect for her needs -- just happen by, at just the right time, for Salt to use.  The result is an incredible action sequence that's tainted by too many unbelievable coincidences.  Salt so effectively evades those searching for her, I don't think she could have done a better job of avoiding detection if she wore a cloak of invisibility.

The biggest problem I have with the film is that Salt seems to have suprahuman healing abilities.  She takes on some physical damage that would result in a mere mortal having an extended hospital stay, if they even survived.  Yet, Salt walks away from such events, usually with only a bit of a limp, a grimace, and a sideways glance.  At times, Salt comes across like the X-Men's Wolverine, due to her amazing recuperative powers.

The story does a nice job handling the truth about whether or not Salt is a Russian spy.  Jolie is the standout, as her portrayal shows Salt as being complex.  From being vulnerable and gentle towards those Salt cares about, to being chillingly efficient when attacking an adversary.

Overall, I think the movie is a worth viewing.