*** This review may contain spoilers ***

Amazon reviewers are real sheep. Everybody is bashing 50 Cent but very little of these rants posing as reviews actually speak about the actual movie. Let's get one thing straight. If you hate 50 so much that you cant even write a partial review on this movie don't review it. Im not fond of 50 as a rapper and as a person but that is a lousy reason to give this movie bad reviews.

Get Rich Or Die Trying is loosely based on the life of Curtis Jackson and based on that reason its pretty good. 50 plays himself and there are good performances from Terrance Howard as well as Joy Bryant who plays Charlene, Marcus's girlfriend in the movie. Bill Duke is pretty good as Levar the boss of the organization Marcus links up with. Adewale Akinnouye Agbaje is excellent as the ruthless Majestic. The movie covers Marcus childhood as well is how he became to be a rapper. One might question the authenticity of the story being told in this movie(this being the movie's real flaw) but as far as entertainment goes I enjoyed myself.

Its a shame when people allow the hapless trendies that run amok on Amazon, IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes dictate to you what qualifies as quality movies. These weirdos think that defending awful movies that were rightfully panned like Freddy Got Fingered, Nothing But Trouble, Batman and Robin, The Musketeer and The Black Dahlia makes them hip and cool and not pathetic posers in dire need of a life. And as far as acting goes the last time I checked  Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Leonardo Dicaprio, Brad "Musty Arm" Pitt(overrated beyond belief), Casper Van Diem,  Chuck Norris were not real actors! To all of you reasonable people out there do not allow the circus freaks on Amazon, IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes to tell you what counts for good cinema because you will be disappointed every time. There are a lot of great movies that never made the Top 250 or gotten Fresh Tomatoes. Just goes to show you the bandwagon mentality of these pseudo intellectual rodents. And as far as the overly sensitive sheep go, I wouldn't waste time trying to reason with your schizophrenic a**es. Go fawn over the ever-so-overrated Quentin Tarantino like the spineless groupies you are.

BRING ON THE UNHELPFUL VOTES!!!!