I'm not really sure what else I can say about this movie. There are some intelligent reviews here that cover much of what I'd like to say. At some level, I guess, it's just a matter of adding my affirmation to what others have said. My most enthusiastic affirmation. This is a great film. It's not great just because the acting is good. Though it is. It's not great just because the cinematography is wonderful. Though it is. It's not great just because it puts a taboo subject on the big screen at a time when Americans need to face a whole variety of realities about themselves. Though you bet it does that too.

It's great because the story just makes sense. Annie Proulx has looked into an unfortunate aspect of American culture - our reticence to acknowledge that love and affection doesn't fit into easy, cultural-correct cubicles - and she's told a story that in one way or another must have been lived and relived again and again by a great many people. All the characters in this movie get full and sympathetic treatment. Yes, that begins with Ennis and Jack, but it goes beyond them to include everyone unfortunate enough to be caught up in the repressive society this film details. They're all victims - wives and children included. And it just makes sense! You can totally understand why people would live the lives these characters do, unable to love themselves or those around them naturally, because of pressures from a close-minded, fearful society.

I came home from this film wondering if other actors could've done a better job than Ledger and Gyllenhaal, only to find an old Mel Gibson movie on the box. I was painfully aware of how poor an actor someone like Gibson is in comparison to these two young, talented men. I was also painfully aware of how brave they are, and how someone like Gibson would never have done a film like this. It actually makes me - usually a cynic when it comes to Hollywood - enthusiastic about the future of mainstream American filmmaking. Every now and then we get something right. Brokeback Mountain is one of those times.