Incredibly lavish, exquisitely moody, often extremely dark sequel takes a sardonic look at the Caped Crusader and a pair of emotionally tormented villains, the poignant (and mean) Penguin and the sultry, conflicted  Catwoman, both played brilliantly by Danny DeVito and the terrific Michelle  Pfeiffer. Christopher Walken also arrives as scheming Max Shreck (named  after the vampire in "Nosferatu") to assist them in their dire plans. The  plot moves crisply for about an hour, until it disappointingly falls apart  in the scattershot second half.  The film suffers from an often  mean-spirited tone, and with too few appearances by Batman himself  throughout, the story revolves around the villains rather than the hero.  Much of the action is so intense and emotional, the film can be a bit  depressing at times to watch, especially for younger viewers, part of its  target audience.  Still, there are too many juicy elements in this visually  overpowering fantasy to ignore; they're all so masterfully directed by Tim  Burton, who stamps each scene with his one-of-a-kind wizardry. The picture  is simply a marvel to look at, and does that rare thing in cinema: it  creates a world so real that stems deep within the abyss of the  imagination, so consistently impressive and truly warrants the overused  term, "dazzling." The best visual touch is setting the film at Christmas  time, with snowy, ice-glazed visuals providing the perfect compliment to  the extraordinary visual deign by Bo Welch, creating a giant snow-globe  with a pulse.  A bold attempt has been made to make the villains into  victims, not simply evil monsters, and Michael Keaton's second (and final)  donning of the cape and cowl is a strong one. The technical credits, which  include opulent costume designs, Danny Elfman's exquisite scoring art and  Stefan Czapsky's masterful cinematography, are simply indelible. Despite  many imperfections, pic is the most unique, bizarre, and original  installment in this uneven series.