I get chills when watching SWING TIME, the sixth of ten Astaire/Rogers collaborations. In Between "The Barkley's Of Broadway" and "CareFree" (my personal favorites, this ranks #2. Then again, TOP HAT and SHALL WE DANCE barely missed my top 3.

The reasons why I love SWING TIME so much is the perfect blend of plot (save the ending, where Georges Mexata, playing Ricardo Romero, concedes his affection for Ginger Rogers way too easily. Didn't know slacks made that much of a difference.), comedy (Victor Moore was hilarious.)and, of course, the dancing of Fred and Ginger.

Wasn't it amazing watching them go? In terms of a collection of dances, they might have been at their best here. The first, "Pick Yourself Up", is a joyous and exuberant number embellished by syncopated rhythms and overlayed with tap decoration. Watching the last minute of the routine, where Fred and Ginger take flight, then leaping in and eventually off the dance floor left me breathless.

"Waltz In Swing Time" , in my opinion, may have been the most virtuosic partnered romantic duet Astaire ever committed to film.  Love is celabrated in this dance, in the form of a syncopated waltz with tap overlays In the midst of this complex routine, Astaire and Rogers fill their steps with a mirthly reminder of a similar episode in "Pick Yourself Up". Pretty Cool stuff.

Never Gonna Dance" was a breathtakingly amazing, phenomenally emotionally foray that left me speechless. This dynamically choreographed routine was shot forty-seven times in one day before Astaire was satisfied, with Rogers' feet left bruised and bleeding by the time they finished. And given the end result, you can see why, for it partnered emotion with elegance and spins with grace. Poetry in motion here is an understatement. It is absolutely exquisite, and quite possibly, the most beautiful dance ever recorded in motion picture history. But surprisingly, not my favorite dance routine in the movie.

That distinction goes to "Bojangles In Harlem". The Bill "Bojangles" Robinson tap tribute was captaivating; though I must admit, I had to get over the blackface. Bojangles Of Harlem" coupled Astaire's supreme effort with a jaunty instrumental piece. that opening solo, which Astaire mimics Jolson poses between rhythmic taps is amazing. Recorded in one take, Astaire exercises every limb and makes extensive use of hand-clappers. Then his dance with the shadows and throwaway ending, a la the master himself, had me rewinding this solo performance repeatedly.

This was an amazing movie.