I can't believe all the bad negative comments on this film. Yes..I've seen all the previous "Invasions". Even both "War of the Worlds"..and even "Plan 9 from Outer Space" and how can we forget "The Shining".

Is it because it doesn't have an open ending like the other ones as this one has more closure on the storyline of the "Invasion" films in the past

I can appreciate also the slower "thought" process of this version. The creepiness of these people once transformed and how well they hide their alien-selves. This storyline allows for the audience to learn more insightful thoughts of the "aliens" and their viewpoints than in previous versions.

The intro dinner scene of the Doctors thoughts on "progressive thinking" is brilliant..it's an insightful poignant conversation eluding to a way of thinking most humans are blinded of based on "their" current living era and of cultures.

I don't think this movie could've been played by younger actors. Seasoned actors and Nicole Kidman was a good choice.

I have also noticed, in the past 20 years..a lack of appreciation for slower developing plots in films. Or is it lack of "attention span" when someone isn't always getting "whacked" on the screen or cars getting smashed.

I think what one has to ask when viewing sci-fi films..is "Is this what I would do if I was her/him?" AND How much fact is going to validate the storyline in this created world.

I think very few sci-fi films allow for full believability. This is of them that satisfies.

I'm finding so many flaws in the new Star Trek and Terminator storylines.

Such as in Star Trek..I don't find it realistic that a Starfleet Officer would eject and "chuck" a student (in a pod) to a death planet where he would be eaten by huge powerful ferocious creatures!

Terminator: I can't see "anti-rejection" drugs being available to organ donors in a post nuke setting! Which invalidated the WHOLE movie right at the end!.

I felt this this version of "Invasions" satisfies completely on this level.
I didn't feel like I was being treated as a complete retard while watching it!

I enjoyed it.