To all of you naysayers complaining about this film adaptation. None of you have any idea what you are talking about because you obviously have no idea who the Punisher is. You may think you do, but you do not. With that being said...

I took my girlfriend to it against her will (she did not want to see it because she loved Thomas Jane). Let me tell you, she was not only awake for the whole thing, but absolutely loved it. Thomas Jane who...? Ray Stevenson, yes. No kidding. She was quite literally blown away, and she doesn't even read comics. I do! As both an avid movie-goer and comic fan this movie made me happy.

Characters & Actors

Ray Stevenson is Frank Castle bar none. NO ONE could do a better job as the Punisher. The grit, remorselessness, seriousness and brutal nature of Punisher is portrayed by Stevenson perfectly. Thomas Jane was great, but no where near as believable. Dolph Lundgren was a joke as the Punisher.

Dominic West was perfect as the mangled criminal, Jigsaw. He speaks terror like no other. A true arch-nemesis to the Punisher.

Let's not forget Wayne Knight (ex-Newmen)'s wonderful part as Linus
"Microchip" Lieberman, Frank's partner. Knight deserves major credit for his role. He really stands out with his performance because he makes the character worth watching and remembering.

The movie's tone

Extremely over the top blood shed. No holds barred entertainment all the way through. Bullet riddled bodies, dismemberments, profanity, this IS the Punisher at its finest. Truly, rivils Garth Ennis' comic book version of the Punisher. DO NOT watch this with the kiddies. You have been warned.

To put it blunt, do not believe the haters of this movie. They obviously missed the satire of this film. Apparently, they cannot get pass the violence. Yes, it is violent, yes it is brutal, but that IS after all the world of the Punisher. This movie really, truly is how the Punisher should be. Very brutal with a nice touch of dark humor to balance it out. It isn't suppose to be realistic, it is suppose to make fun of itself. Duh! Any comic book fan could tell you that.

If you are not a comic fan and take everything literally and seriously, you will probably hate this film. But, if you are like me and can see pass the profanity and violence, and understand what this movie is trying to achieve, you should enjoy it. The movie does not deserve an Oscar or put in the book as the best movie of all time, but does do exactly what it set out to do, shock and entertain those who value humor and action. Quentin Tarantino fans would probably fall in love with this movie. Fans of Titanic will hate it.