Everybody's mean to The One, from the people who are mean to all dumb action movies to the Jet Li, Hong Kong faithful who were disappointed that it didn't live up to their (our) very high standards.  But it has found a place in my heart, and I'll tell you why.

I don't know how old you are, so I don't know what movies you watched and loved on TV as a kid.  For me it was cheesy garbage like Dollman, Trancers, and lots of Chuck Norris movies.  Now imagine those movies that you formed grade-school cults around, starring Jet Li.  Your fanaticism would've been much more fanatical, wouldn't it? And instead of looking like morons on the playground while trying to perform Stallone's patented slur/battle-cry from Rambo, this generation of kids will look like morons mimicking authentic kung fu! And that's the big break I cut for it.  It's a cheesy action movie that's relatively kid-friendly, and I think it'll serve some burgeoning movie fans well in their formative years (bad action movies are a necessity to growing boys, you know).

And besides that distant sense of nostalgia it gives me, it's also got some pretty darn funny accidental humor (which always works to the credit of these kinds of movies).  You've got Jet Li trying to headbang to a nu-metal song, which he doesn't seem to have the rythm for to begin with, but on top of it all he's trying to do it EVILLY (no knock to the guy's acting, he's just too sweet-natured to look that malevolent).  There's Delroy "Hnnngh!" Lindo continuing his on-going quest to manually clench his own eyeballs out of his head Total Recall-style (like DeNiro's famed "shrug/tic" and Pacino's revered "distant stare", his acting signature is the versatile "Bug Eye").  You've got the classic "motorcycle/man slap-sandwich" death that could very well be the stuff of legend.  And if that's not the cheesiest, but vaguely creepy and morbid ending ever, then spank my heinie 'cause I think so.

So while it's no Hard Target for sheer action thrill/dumb humor, I think it deserves a small place in the b-movie pantheon.  And I hope someday I'll have a son who makes a fool of himself showing off his The One-trained wushu talents by the creaky swing set of some playground far, far away.