This is a great slasher sequel, as most of them are. People complain about how all of the Friday sequels are the same thing. Well, that's what's great about slasher films. They're always the same thing. I mean, I like getting  the same thing all the time. Sequels should be...SEQUELS!  Look at  Halloween H20. It's sort of a remake of Halloween III, but in a way it's a  sequel to Halloween 6, but it seems to act like 4-6 never happened. It got  lost somewhere in there. And a lot of fans dis-liked it, despite its $50+  million box office take. Look at The Lost World : Jurassic Park. Who would  have liked to have seen the characters from the first film, return to the  park? I got my hand way up! With the Friday The 13th series, the sequels  are the same thing over and over again. Here in Part 2, Jason Voorhees is  handed down the machete from his beloved ax-murdering mother. And went on  to become one of the screen's all-time biggest villains. Ginny, Paul and  the rest of the teenaged, sex-crazed teenagers hang out at a camp ground,  next door to the ol infamous Camp Blood. There's nudity, spear-poking and  cleaver-chopping, and even the crazy old Ralph, who eventually meets his  maker. In the beginning scene, Alice from Part 1, finds Mrs. Voorhees' head  in her refregirator, only to get offed by the soon-to-be hockey  mask-wearing Jason. Yes, thats right. Jason gets the hockey mask, not here,  but in Part 3 (my favorite of the series.) Here as we all know, Jason wears  a one-eyed sack.
There's some great gore and death scenes present in this  horror classic. Including : Jason's VERY FIRST SHISHKABOB KILLING!  A  wheel-chair bound teen gets it, and another teen hanging upside down gets  his throat slit. The FX is just brilliant! Its really awful, that the film  was cut to pieces, due to the MPAA. The score here is EXCELLENT, ONCE  AGAIN! And the scares, are SUPERB! It seems all the Scream crowds say the  Scream movies are the only scary slasher films. There are the same scares  here! They don't know what they're talking about, because they probally  never saw a pre-Scream slasher opus. Some people seem to think the first is  the best, but this one is more entertaining and has more killings!