The film, Brother Bear, is a Walt Disney animated classic that is full of humorous characters, moral lessons, and lots of heart. Brother Bear is rated G, and has won the hearts of moviegoers everywhere. The story of Brother Bear succeeds in correlating the interconnected relationship between humans and nature, the circular view of life, and indigenous sacred ways. "The world is full of magic. The winter turns to spring, and small things become big. One thing always changes into another" (Brother Bear).
 Directed by Aaron Blaise and Robert Walker, Brother Bear is an adventure-packed film that delivers a clever story-line about a Native American boy named Kenai and his journey in learning valuable life lessons. After wrongfully killing a bear, Kenai is magically transformed into one by the Native spirits. Now Kenai must walk in the shoes of a bear and experience firsthand the terrors of being hunted as his brother, Denahi, persistently tracks his every move. The only person who is aware of Kenai's transformation is the tribe's shaman, Tanana, who explains to Kenai that he must first fix his wrongdoing before the spirits are able to transformed him back into a human. While on his journey deep in the forest, Kenai meets several species of animals that share with him a new perspective on human behavior.
 This creative story-line, narrated by Harold Gould and turned into an animated film by Walt Disney Pictures, is enjoyable for audiences of all ages. Both the creative plot and the adorable story-line have a way of winning your attention and holding your interest. The implication between a Native American boy and the relationship between humans and nature, in relation to indigenous sacred ways is brilliant. Furthermore, the connection between indigenous peoples and their native spirits is well recognized. For many indigenous peoples, everything in the cosmos is intimately interrelated (Fisher 39). A kinship with all creation, both living and on a spiritual level, is most important. Trees, animals, insects, and plants are all to be approached carefully and with consideration. For the earth is the tribe's mother, and all in existence is part of her body. Everything is loved, respected, and understood.
 It has been said that Brother Bear is one of Walt Disney's most underrated films. Perhaps this is because of an unfamiliarity with Native tribes and indigenous sacred ways. If you have not yet seen Brother Bear, it is highly recommended. Together, the combination of the detailed story-line and humorous characters, accompanied by the animation technique and the relation to indigenous sacred ways is what made Brother Bear a visionary masterpiece. Collectively, these reasons depict why Walt Disney's film is not only a creative and brilliant animated classic, but also a fantastic one.

Works Cited

Brother Bear. Dir. Aaron Blaise, Robert Walker. Perf. Joaquin Phoenix, Rick Moranis, Jeremy Suarez, Jason Raize. Walt Disney Pictures, 2003. DVD.

Fisher, Mary Pat. "Indigenous Sacred Ways." Living Religions. 8th ed. New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2011. 38-47. Print.