This wonderful series by Ken Burns shows some breathtaking vistas from America's national parks, but really it is a story of these parks, and how they came to be designated as National Parks.

Having come from another country to the U.S. I fell in love with the beauty of this country in part through my visits to the National Parks. The majestic sequoias in Yosemite to the beauty of the Great Smoky Mountains. I felt so fortunate to be able to gaze upon these vistas, and have the luxury of being able to come back to them often, I never imagined that the creation of these Parks was not an easy process. It was surprising to learn that it took massive effort to create these parks I took for granted, that their creation was embroiled in politics and vested interests of those who wanted to exploit these natural resources.

This documentary tells us of visionaries like John Muir who spent their life trying to show their countrymen just why we needed to preserve these vast areas of natural beauty and bustling wildlife. Artists like Obata who came from Japan to Ansel Adams who painted and photographed the glories of these parks to show just why we needed to preserve this land in it's natural state. From FDR to Ickes who used loopholes in law to designate these parks as national monuments.

The documentary explores periods from the late 1800s to 1990s through the turmoil of war and Depression and how the idea preserved through the years through incessant efforts of a few. It has interviews from historians and writers who speak of the forces that tried to prevent the parks from coming into existence and the few who supported it. There are some very heartfelt and emotional moments during these interviews. The common thread that connected all those who fought for the parks' survival was the belief that these parks were meant to be accessed by all -irrespective of their financial status or their skin color.

I think that this documentary is so inspirational and deeply moving because it is not just about the parks and their beauty, it gives you an insight into the mind of the visionaries who made America what it is today. It is a powerful depiction of how the American ideals of truth, beauty and goodness, and liberty are represented in creation of the National Parks. After viewing this documentary I feel deeply grateful to those who allowed me to experience this beauty. Watch it, show it to your children so that they may also understand the creation of the beautiful living legacy of our National Parks.