HOW THE WEST WAS WON is a good movie; however, it and the 2008 blu-ray restoration have some big mistakes.  First of all, let me say that the blu-ray version is very beautiful, with rich color. I particularly like the smilebox presentation on disk two.  A problem in the restoration does spoil the early part of the movie, in the section dealing with the river.  The scenes where the Prescott family and the Scottish family are camped along the river at night were filmed as day for night.  When the movie came out in 1962, these scenes were darkened to appear as night.  So when Linus (James Stewart) comes along, the families wonder about what kind of man travels the river after dark.  On the blu-ray it looks like broad daylight.  Otherwise I find no fault with the blu-ray.  It's great!

The movie has a fine script with many of the best actors of the times.  But there are a bunch of geographic goofs:  1. The rapids depicted early in the movie looks nothing like the historical Falls of the Ohio River.  The real Ohio River ran through deciduous forests.  The rapids in the movie is obviously on a river in the mountainous west, with coniferous forests.  2. Not even 100 miles out from Independence, Missouri, the wagon train is passing in front of towering Rocky Mountain peaks.  We know this because Gregory Peck's character arrives after 100 miles.  The Rockies are hundreds of miles from Independence.  3. The wagon train heads out with the leaves turning autumn colors.  It would have left in spring, to make it across the mountains by winter.  4. The colored leaves are seen throughout the trip to California.  Such a wagon train could never cover that distance in that short of time.

I do wish film-makers would be a little more careful with details.  (I also know that there were considerations of budget and time.)  The truth is I like this movie a lot and can't praise the musical score and songs enough.  Buy it with the second smilebox disc. ( Just once I had to sound-off about the inaccuracies in a movie.  I'm sorry if that is too much info for you.  I do not want to spoil your enjoyment of this classic film.)