Boyz n the Hood was one of the most important movies of the 1990's. It is both an excellent movie about life in the mean streets of the inner city as well as a reinforcer of the moral values needed to turn around the situation in Urban America where youth gangs run rampant. During the course of the story, it offers much needed commentary on the

situation that young people find themselves in and how they can get out of it.

At the start of the movie there is a subtitle that says "One out of every 21 black males will be murdered in his lifetime, most will be killed at the hands of another black male." If anything, that fact is even worse today. Most flicks today that are about the inner city crime scene have taken many of their concepts from this film, but many of these

films today are all shoot `em up movies that have no morality, strong plot or serious social message.

The setting of this flick is South Central L.A.: Where murder rates are five times the nationwide average, or in absolute figures, double the entire U.S.'s death rate for breast cancer. Over the past two decades the Los Angeles Police Department has accumulated a backlog of 4,400 unsolved homicides - roughly 3/4ths of the city's total.

This gripping tale evolves around a single black father, Furious Styles (Laurence Fishburne), raising his one and only son, Tr&eacute; Styles (Cuba Gooding Jr.), and installing in him the values to help him become a man. This is an important point that director John Singleton took time to illustrate since the majority of men in the black community are often raised by their single mothers. The values that Furious Styles instills in Tre are generally not portrayed in most movies today.

Essentially, Boyz n the Hood is a movie about peace. Its message is that violence isn't the answer, and this movie shows the effects of violence being what residents of the inner city all too frequently resorts to when there are other alternatives available.

The movie starts when Tre's mother sends him

to live with his father Jason, a/k/a "Furious", who

is much better equipped to raise a son in a neighborhood like this. The movie quickly moves forward seven years when seventeen year old Tre and his best friend Ricky about to graduate from high school, while

another friend Doughboy has already graduated - from

shoplifting to guns and small-time drug deals. And while Furious guides Tre towards moral choices, responsibility and self-respect, Doughboy and Ricky are raised by a mother who lacks the capacity to instill proper values and morals in her offspring.

The basic plot to Boyz n the Hood is can Tre avoid the crime and drug scene and live a normal, decent life? This is all the more challenging given all the crime and violence around him. Boyz n the Hoodis an excellent film that is a drama based on real human beings. It shows the

dire straits that folks in the South Central are in without being conscending or exploitative. Boyz n the Hood is a flick that is well written, acted and directed. The cinematography is stunning.