This movie is a classic of any genre.  It has such a great dated fill to it like other classic sixties and seventies films such as Goldfinger, Deliverance or Dirty Harry.  I love the cast and their interaction.  A Chinese, African American and white guy all fighting together like there's nothing out of the ordinary about it, which is how it should be.  These days you would have to have some joke where the Chinese guy makes some "innocent" crack about the 'hood or the black man calling the white guy cracker.  In this film everyone is treated with equal respect.  It seems to me this is something that was more common place in films in the early seventies or maybe it was the influence of Bruce Lee's own philosophies.  Whatever the cause, it's nice to see three different races represented as equals.
The plot is a cross between a James Bond movie and the standard Kung Fu pictures.  Bruce Lee is recruited by a shadowy government organization to infiltrate a mysterious island as a participant in a Karate tournament.  This is basically a character and action driven movie because there isn't much suspense.  It's pretty much a given that Han is up to something.  
Where this movie shines is the martial arts action.  I originally saw Enter The Dragon as a double feature at the drive in in the early eighties.  I remember thinking as I watched the first feature (Kill Or Be Killed) that the fighters were fast.  That is until Bruce Lee came on.  I had never seen anyone move that fast before or since.  The final fight in the house of mirrors holds up well and is every bit as thrilling as any fight scene of today.
As for the bonus features, the trailers are interesting if for no other reason then it's amusing to see how far commercials have come.  The interview with Bruce Lee is particularly poignant.  It makes you wonder what would be next.  He had a powerful personality and very definate views on fame and movie making.  I think his films would have only gotten better and may have even brought equality and better roles for minorities to the movies decades sooner.