I won't add my unqualified praise to the long list of enthusiastic reviews, with which I heartily agree.

The other day I saw a documentary about "Gentleman's Agreement," which mentioned that it was the first Hollywood film to use the word "Jew," which had supposedly been taboo because the studio heads did not want to call attention to their own ethnicity.

Actually, Chaplin's "The Great Dictator" had dealt openly with the plight of Jews, in Germany, long before "Gentleman's Agreement."

But "To Be Or Not to Be" scrupulously avoids any reference to Jews, even though the characters in the story are obviously a company of Jewish actors, and director Lubitsch and many of the actors in the film are themselves Jewish.

As if to underline the taboo, or perhaps to poke a little satirical bite at it, early on the script has Jack Benny, in a throw-away line that one could easily miss, nonchalantly order a "salami and cheese sandwich" -- a no-no in the diet of a traditional Eastern European Jew.

The film even goes so far as to misquote Shakespeare, having Felix Bressart substitute the words "I" and "we" for "Jew" in Shylock's most famous speech. This shameless (or shameful, depending upon how you look at it) bowlerism could not have been overlooked by the more literate of those in the audience.

Those same people may also have wondered at the choice of Hamlet's onstage "To Be Or Not to Be" speech as an opportune time for the Carol Lombard character to pursue a backstage assignation.

Lombard's Maria Tura would surely have played Ophelia in the production. Immediately following the "To Be or Not to Be" scene, Hamlet comes upon Ophelia saying her prayers. There could not possibly have been time during the speech for Maria to have an offstage romance and still make her entrance on cue.

These anomalies in the story are perhaps a wink at the audience, and no more improbable than a troupe of Jewish actors in Poland successfully impersonating Nazi soldiers, a general, and even Hitler.

The film is both a social statement, albeit an obvious one, and a brilliant farce, and is one of my all-time favorites.