I just want to add one comment to this earlier review:  This film, more than most, has convinced me that 'motion pictures' need a new, more meaningful kind of recognition approach than the Academy Awards, which was based on members of an industry rewarding themselves for their recent work.  That approach was geared to a world in which films circulated through theatres, were either seen or not, and then disappeared.  In other words, the motion picture was a disposable commodity.  Now, motion pictures last 'forever.'  We have the opportunity to assess them in terms of overall value over a longer period of time, and we can also assess the value of revised versions, as in the case of Kingdom of Heaven.  Films like Kingdom of Heaven, Out of Africa, and Elizabeth can be rated as current products, not finished products that will not be seen again.  I can guarantee that many recent Oscar winners (not bad as one-time experiences), like Slum Dog Millionaire, No Country for Old Men, and The Hurt Locker, will fall out of the top ratings, and others that were not recognized earlier on will be recognized as perennial favorites.  Also, films should be rated by those who watch them, and by film critics that we respect, but not by those who make them.

I already had the extended DVD version of this film, which is terrific (and good for extras), but the blu-ray version is definitely worth it.  The detail in this sumptuous film (great cinematography, color effect) is amazing.  In addition, the blu-ray version plays straight through without intermission, and no need to change discs.  As many others (consensus) have commented, the storyline in this film was broken up in the original theatrical version, and the extended version is the only one to watch.  The extended version brought out a complete and terrific story in a dramatic historical setting.  All of the actors were more than well-suited for their roles, either as the moral baron, his reluctant warrior son, the great and wise desert conquerer, or the complicated Sybil.  Gladiator was a great film, but this one has many more fascinating and deep characters, with more than one dimension.  Consider Edward Norton as the masked King of the Kingdom of Heaven ("Jerusalem").  Jeremy Irons and Liam Beeson- incredible performances.  When they finally add an Oscar for "fixed" films on blu-ray or DVD, this one has to be at the top of the Best Picture list.  You could never have seen the image quality of Blu-ray in a theatrical print, anyway.  As usual for a Ridley Scott film, the soundtrack is a work of art in itself, wholly environmental and involving.