My wife and I first saw this series while living in the remote wilds of Alaska. It was on CBS and was a great hit for us! We enjoyed the Canadian humor as well as the great lines. We missed most of the series as the program went off and on again.

It seems that this show died twice and revived both times.

Now, with the DVDs we were able to watch the entire series. I would say it is well worth the expense. I bought the entire series for about $55.00 (including shipping to Alaska). The quality of the DVDs are sometimes not the best. As mentioned by other posts, there is some grainy and digital interference during some fast action scenes. I would say that it in no way would interfere with the enjoyment of the program.

One comment regarding program content. I believe that this program was considered so successful was the fact that there was no detailed, blood guts and gore. The content of the series was moderate and did not get into detailed gore or overly suggestive content.

The music used in the series is also great.

The series changed a bit when Ray Vecio took over for Ray Vecio. When Paul Maricano left the program I lost interest when watching the series on TV. I must admit though, the series played a great card by playing Marciano's departure from the series into the series. Great thinking by the producers! The new Ray grows on you after a short while and the series is just as interesting as the beginning. It would appear Frasier changed a bit as well as he became more "hands on" when dealing with suspects. It appeared that the producers were attempting to keep up with the times with the action as well as the theme song. The origonal theme was perfect as it was...but got jazzed up with electric guitars and a slight change.....Still good though

I don't think that the partners of Gross and Marciano could be matched by anyone else though. It appears that they worked together very well.

This is a good example of a fine program. Buy it and enjoy!

P.S. I would love to see a CD come out describing the process of the series as well as some of the out takes....... Favorite line of many " I said Elves not Elvis. Elves!"