FACT: Thunderbirds (TV) is the brainchild of Gerry Anderson.

FACT: THUNDERBIRDS (Film) is the baby of Johnathan Frakes

FACT: Frakes loved Thunderbirds and was determined to bring a sense of fun, wit and excitment to THUNDERBIRDS.

FACT: I and my brother were both very cynical of this film being any good.

FACT: We subsequently saw the film THREE TIMES in the cinema and have brought all of the non-kiddie products related to it, including the DVD.

FACT: THUNDERBIRDS IS FAB!

Okay, as you can see, I like this movie. Dangerously. I'm 17 and I've quite happily sat three times through a film intended for kids and every time I leave smiling and boppin' along to Busted's theme.

I will be the first to admit it has it's problems. i.e. I'd like to see more of the ships themselves, and in some of the CGI work you can see the strings (TB2 going through Tower Bridge doesn't look quite...right), but it really sparkles with quality, from the actors to the director, everyone clearly had a ball making it.

Seeing the DVD extras and listening to Frakes' commentary reinforce my feelings. On set, everyone smiles and laughs, Frakes peppers his commentary with a surprising amount of humor (example, at the end of the credits when TB2 appears carrying his name: "And it's directed by (GASP), look at that, Jonathan Frakes").

One thing I'm surprised he didn't make a joke of though is that when the gantry flips over towards the end with the Hood hanging from it is that the exact same thing happened to himself in Star Trek; Nemesis. Go figure.

FACT: Because of some very bitter critics, THUNDERBIRDS 2 will never be made. And it should be. Frakes drops hints and ideas for a sequel, such as a developing relationship between Jeff and Penny and the possibilities that Tintin's powers present to a sequel. He clearly wants to do it, and believed THUNDERBIRDS would be sucessful enough to justify 2. As another reviewer said, it's heartbreaking.

Another bonus for the DVD was the little clips from the TV show dotted in the extras, and I now know for sure which format I prefer.

Give it a chance. Don't be told what to think by the critics, buy this DVD, and try and boost it's takings Sky-High at 15,000mph, then TB2 has a chance of taking off.

5

4

3

2

1

THUNDERBIRDS ARE GO!