There was no mention of the human race trying to control its spiraling population. Human overpopulation has now become the Problem more than anything else. They made a mention of there being twice as many people today as there were when Kennedy was president. Their hopes for the future of technology are just too hopeful. They put me vaguely in the mind of old science fiction novels that assumed by the year 2000 humans would have colonized Mars and all of us would me moving around via individual jet packs. Even if eventually possible, the technology they mention  can only raise our carrying capacity for a very short while. (For more information about this, google Albert Bartlett. He has some amazingly entertaining video lectures that are sure to please you.) Consider that when the deer population in American woodlands increases to a certain level, hunting is encouraged by the government to reduce the deer population. The argument against animal rights groups is thus: the deer that will survive hunting season will have more food and will therefore be healthier. Since the makers of this documentary consider us part of nature, they need to realize that the planet cannot sustain more human population growth.

We NEED negative human population growth NOW.

If the human population continues to grow, there will be dire consequences. In the words of the famous Isaac Asimov, "Democracy cannot survive overpopulation. Human dignity cannot survive it. Convenience and decency cannot survive it. As you put more and more people into the world, the value of life not only declines, it disappears. It doesn't matter if someone dies. The more people there are, the less one individual matters."

Moreover, I begin to question the whole intelligence of this documentary because of their (granted very brief) endorsement of biofuels. Everyone knows that biofuels are very bad for the environment, considering how much deforestation will have to be accomplished in order to grow corn and soybean to turn into fuel. Not to mention that biofuels are driving up food prices, causing more and more people to starve.

UPDATE

I just finished watching Anderson Cooper's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000WUUNSC">Planet in Peril (2 DVD set)</a>. It is fantastic and you should watch it instead of this documentary.