Harry `Breaker` Morant, was an immigrant Australian who served in the Boer war (1900-1903), where Dutch/German Boers wanted independence from England. This was intolerable to the British Empire at the time and Lord Kitchener despatched the army to put down this `revolt'.
Empire troops were drafted in to help, among them Australians from the new nation. The Boers were waging early guerrilla-style warfare, picking off English troops before melting away and Britain was steadily losing the war.
Lord Kitchener decided to engage troops of the Australian `Bushveldt Carbineers', among them Harry `Breaker' Morant, his superior officer and future brother in law Captain Hunt, as well as fellow soldiers Handcock and Witton to adopt the same guerrilla tactics. Although they (somewhat conveniently) received no written orders, it was `made patently clear' they were to take no prisoners, and to shoot anyone wearing stolen British uniform.
After their well-liked Captain hunt was captured after an ambush and his body later found horribly mutilated, Morant and others found the perpetrators and vowing vengeance, carried out their orders. Several of the Boer soldiers were subsequently executed along with a collaborating German missionary. 
With Germany possibly about to enter the war, Britain needed heads on a plate and three `expendable colonials' were found who fitted the bill.
The compelling courtroom drama shows how the defendants (innocent or otherwise) were manoeuvred towards a guilty verdict for political expediency and are mere pawns in a far greater drama. In an age where failure to obey any orders, written or otherwise, in the British army was mutiny punishable by firing squad, our three defendants are damned if they do carry out orders and damned if they don't.
A compelling look at the often blurry nature of war, it's hardening effect on human attitudes and how power sometimes corrupts justice. Whether guilty or not, these men still deserved a fair trial and this powerful film conveys that well.