I'm admittedly not normally driven to providing my views as to movies when I have little to contribute in terms of positive critique, however I felt that the much anticipated `hypercube' and sequel to the classic `Cube' was sufficiently bad to warrant that which follows.  I premise this review with a succinct summary of my conclusions, that is to say that I considered the film to be Crap.  That is to say crap with a capital `C'.  It is however, only a personal view and I admit that the film has dynamics which may well appeal to many the viewer...just not to me.
It's almost unfair to compare the sequel with the original, but it is expedient, so here I go.
Plot:  The original was elegant in its simplicity, a group of people being manipulated into navigating a treacherous and lethal construct in the hope of obtaining truth, understanding, and of course, freedom.  As someone with a vague interest in quantum theory, I thought the sequel held some hope of providing an interesting variation to the harsh reality of metal and plastic that comprised the initial cube.  However, hypercube falls well short of any real conceptualization that equates to quantum theory and used that dynamic as a thinly veiled excuse for what amounted to a disjointed plot development.  I'm prepared to admit that if there in fact was a plot I probably missed the more important elements of it as a consequence of the constant distractions in my home which proved more entertaining than the film itself...like the laundry.  
Character Development:  I actually found what really amounted to the `lead' character to be quite enigmatic in her portrayal, and the whining computer designer was at least believable (although the copulation scene was less erotica and more an excuse for me to make a phone call).  Unlike Cube, where you found yourself either identifying or at least empathizing with certain characters, the primary benefit of the `parallel universe' comprising the hypercube was that viewers got the satisfaction of seeing the same wooden characters being killed over and over again.  
Special Effects:  Oooh...a spinning bunch of squares...reminds me a lot of the thrill and excitement I experienced back in primary school when I sat on a classroom floor with a bunch of other kids with their fingers in their noses and watched my teacher draw a pyramid.  Granted, whilst both the original and sequel seem to have been projects undertaken on a shoe-string budged, the latter appears even more so.  Where the original flick's effects were basal, they were effective and made you wince in anticipation.  Hypercube left me dizzy, sleepy, and unconvinced.  Whereas Cube used the `unstated' to fine effect, one got the feeling that if anything happened off-screen in hypercube it was because they couldn't afford to shoot the scene properly, as distinct from utilizing the all important tool of the viewers imagination.  
Soundtrack:  The soundtrack actually wasn't that bad.  It certainly wasn't as cheesy as the rest of the flick, so hands in the air for the music.  Although it probably just proves you could watch the movie with your eyes closed and still get the most out of it.
Finale:  Ok, I think I got it.  I won't give it away for those yet to take a look at hypercube, save to say that the film falls into the trap which seems a universal constant in bad sci-fi...'we can't really figure out how to end it or give it meaning so we'll just leave the unexplainable unexplained and pretend like it was cool and intentional'.  Pffft...whatever.  
Conclusion:  Yes, the disclaimer.  For all its pitfalls, I did wind up watching this to the end, mainly to see if it would redeem itself, which it didn't.  If you approach this film as I did with the Cube, that is without any real expectations, you may well find you enjoy it.  The Cube was a movie I got out in a bunch of weekly rentals and was a fantastic surprise.  Hypercube belongs in the weekly section and will not disappoint insofar as its mediocrity is concerned.  Check it out, at least to say you've seen it, but don't lay down the cash to buy it, or even rent it as an overnighter.