A great movie based on the traditional hero quest.  I'm surprised that this movie doesn't get more hype because it is one of the best.

My kids love this movie.  In fact, I think it rates as one of their top 5 all-time favorites.  I suppose it helps that the main character is a dog - both boys and girls seem to relate well to animal movies.

However, what I think really makes this movie great is its adherence to the traditional hero quest.  Bolt is separated from his home and undergoes an initiation before returning and saving the day.  In this case, I think that the writers did an excellent casting job casting a cat in the position of the teacher (Yoda) and the hamster as companion (Chewbacca).

What's that you say?  This reviewer has flown the coop?  What's all this Yoda nonsense?  Be still your beating heart my friends and read Joseph Campbell's The Hero with a Thousand Faces.  Or - perhaps just watch the PBS interview with Bill Moyers (even though Moyers is generally a raving fool). That pretty much explains it.  Note that the movie Spirit (about the horse) follows basically the same pattern.  Separation, initiation, return.

Bolt also follows a Wizard of Oz pattern in the way he follows the map of pancake houses (yellow brick road) to his destination.  In this case, Oz being Hollywood.

Bolt is really interesting because it handles the hero development in reverse - rather than leaving home to learn some mystical skill, Bolt does the opposite.  He is a superhero to begin with, only to leave home and discover his life is a lie.  Bolt's separation from home results in his transformation into a normal dog, not a super dog (unlike a character like Luke Skywalker for instance).  However, the beauty of this movie is that Bolt is a "hero" regardless.  You could argue that in some ways, Bolt perhaps does become a super dog of sorts - he goes from a make-believe hero to a real one.

My black lab is a super dog too.  Her super power is eating entire loaves of bread off the kitchen counter.  She also hunts mice - kind of strange for a dog, but she is pretty good at it.

All that aside, I highly recommend this movie to families with children 10 and under.  We have watched pretty much every movie available for kids and this one ranked in the top 5 for sure.

My 8 year old daughter tears up at the end.  Bolt's last "super bark" does her in every time.  It's like Bolt's "Rudy" moment.

When you get to the end... and see the super bark scene I'm talking about... a tear will slip down you cheek and, and that moment, the moment in which your beating little heart opens up to all the emotion in the world, you will remember this review from Amazon and you will remember the name MoonDonkey...and your heart will sing... thank you MoonDonkey...thank you MoonDonkey... thank you...  And at that point, like a crack in a dam,  the waters will flow and the pent up tears of all your years will gush forth as you drop your cheeks into your hands, fall to your knees, and surrender the hardness of your dark and evil adult heart to the long-lost innocence of your childhood.