I was very pumped about buying this series, I loved the first ROLW and could hardly wait as I plopped this into the DVD drive. I was dazzled and amazed by the opening theme song and the smooth, crisp animation shown at the opening credits. Then the real show started...Orson and Shiris are seen re introduced which is acceptable because the booklet that comes with explains it. The first battle scene between Parn and the Berserker was excellent, Parn actually holds his own for awhile instead of getting smoked instantly like the previous one, the fight scene ends and you can't wait for the next action sequence, but as the episodes carry on the animation gets less and less admirable. Many of the action scenes are done in a cheap, still motion way, this leaves much for the imagination but if we wanted to use our imaginations we would read a book instead. After about the fourth episode you begin to feel swindled from the cheap animation and cheesy action sequences, (Many are just still frames with sound effects.) 
The plotline begins to seem written for a ten year old, everything becomes stereotypical and predictable, the dialogue becomes dirt. It bases itself on an RPG to much, at one point Slayn says, "We are just magic users we can't do anything without the proper fighter support." Then in a corny entrance sequence Parn, Kashue, and Deedlit burst through the door and say, "Did someone call for fighter support?" 
I didn't like many of the new characters especially Spark, we've already been through the weak knight phase in the first OAV and now have to watch it again through Spark for 20 more episodes. Our favorite characters, Parn and Deedlit, are still in the show with reduced roles. They show up at unexpected times to save Spark and friends, and gradually we stop caring about them amidst the multitude of all the other characters fighting for screen time. I felt that the animation hit its highest low point in the invasion of Kannon, we don't get much of a feel for the battle because of the still frames galore being used, again if we wanted this we would look at a picture book while listening to a recording play. The ending of the series is better than the rest of it because Spark needs to make a big decision but there really aren't any other tragedies to make us feel for the characters. At the end of each episode are Chibbi Animations that make a mockery of the anime, I began to look forward to these more than the regular series towards the end because at least there were fewer characters that we could actually follow.
I only recommend buying this if you are a big fan of the first episodes, as I said before the animation in the opening credits (Possibly the most entertaining part) is great but never used in the series. I was very dissapointed at how five years later the animation got worse but I guess that's how it goes. sometimes.