As stated in a review for the BSG series, I have some grave doubts and misgivings as I watch this film. It does look beautful--Universal did not flinch from producing a great looking craft with the Galactica, the costumes look fine, and everything else shows that some cash was spent on the look of the show. The cast looked great and the music was pretty decent. However, the story is the problem--and it is a big one.
 For one thing, the story starts out with a strong hour--the destruction of the colonial fleet and the homeworlds. Then the feeling that there is something wrong with certain survivors and how they are getting all the food and all their needs met while everyone else is starving--no problem. However, and it is a big however, the story makes a sharp turn downward with the use of the casino and especially the three vocalists--with the three faces.  These take the story into realms that it did not need to go.
 The casino looks fake, the costumes seem a part of the 1970s and not a future place and time--or whenever you wish to place the tale.  The actions of Starbuck doesn't ring true. A seasoned warrior would not just place himself into this casino and try to win the services of the three (nine?) vocalists. It seemed fake when it was first shown and it stills feels faked. The show was at it's best on the bridge of the Galactica and this bit of silliness wrecks a promising beginning. Also, the idea of a few blasts from the warrior's firearms causing enough blazes to set the whole planet to blow up is just a bit too much.  Even with the basestar nearby, the viewer has not seen enough explosions to cause the temperature of the whole planet to rise to a high enough degree to blow up.
 So, a promising beginning is destroyed.  The problem of BSG, both film and series, is the same which caused the ruin of the other big space epic of the 1970s, "Space: 1999", the writers--especially Larson & Bellarsario, were only loosely aware of what makes good SF stories on the small screen.  These producers would take promising plots from films (think of DB's "Jag" which came out after the film "A Few Good Men" or his "Airwolf" which came out after "Blue Thunder".)  They could copy plots, but they were and are not the best at writing TV SF--a trick learned by J.M.S. of "Babylon Five."