Tired of prom night rock-outs, Pet, Kelly and Casey, erstwhile known as The Kelly Affair, set out on an east - west journey to find fame, fortune and a few good parties. So begins Russ Meyer's acclaimed rockumentary  following the small town girls (the self-proclaimed capitalist, Kelly, in  particular had previously shrugged off her Bristol upbringing to adopt a  superb Californian-doll accent) on their way to becoming a poptastical  success. Dwelling more on their turbulent love lives than the band's  splendiforous tunes, however, Meyer has left the girls more famous for  their part in the 'Z-Man murder weekend' scandal of '69 than for their  unquestionable talent. 
It was 'Z-Man' Ronnie Barzell's idea to launch  the band as The Carrie Nations, following in the volcanic footsteps of the  American temperance agitator, Carry Amelia Nation, breaching the peace  across the country with their raw brand of emotional outpouring.
With the  exception of the psych-pop classic Find It however, little of the band's  highly sensitive early work as The Kelly Affair is well known. 
The  sweeping upbeat tambourine rhythms of Come With the Gentle People perfectly  encapsulates the hope and enthusiasm of the girl band starting out. 'Every  day can be a groove' hollers the young Kelly. If only we, like her, would  open up our minds. Yet when their minds are opened to the social excesses  of an exclusive set of Angelenos, the newly christened Carrie Nations  become fixed on a path of mutual self-destruction.
Meyer captures the  amply watered seeds of breakdown early in his documentative work, when  allowed access to the group's first recording session with svengali  producer Barzell. Wittily interchanging the faces of domineering Barzell  and the inexperienced Harris, the girls' one time manager, Meyer accurately  conveys the shift in power and influence surrounding the band. 
The  recording in question, In the Long Run, soon became The Carrie Nations'  first success, and the girls began to receive the attention they justly  deserved. And yet, as is so often the case, it was not enough. 
Kelly,  although being unfortunately linked to sordid sex and blackmail scandal by  the tabloid press, was now rich in her own right. In light of this it has  since been implied that her apparent selfishness at this key time perhaps  blinded her to the downward spiral in which the band, and so too, the  girls' and Harris' own friendships, were inextricably caught. 
A story of  drugs, drink, depression, suicide attempts, abortion and just plain bad  sexual choices led ultimately to the tragic murder of Senator Adams'  dropout daughter, Casey.
The rich body of musical work, however, still  remains with us and is not to be left ignored. Remember The Kelly Affair...  don't you settle for the rain when you can have youthful  sunshine.