As a Toei studio director, Kinji Fukasaku made a wide variety of films, everything from period swordplay epics, to lurid romances and science-fiction horror.  And although he is probably best known in the west for the enormous success of his final film, Battle Royale, it's his work in the gangster genre, the yakuza movie, that Fukasaku best demonstrates his ability to consider the relationship between society and violence, while making some of his most dynamic, entertaining and influential films.

There's still some ambiguity around the question of gangster `giri-ninjo', the code of honour to their boss and even respect for rival gangsters, in some of his preceding films (Japan Organised Crime Boss, Street Mobster) that glamorises their activities to a large extent.  By the time Fukasaku came to make his epic Yakuza Papers in 1973, a series of five full-length feature films detailing the power struggles of rival yakuza families in post-war cities of Kure and Hiroshima, the social context is better defined, and there's no mistaking the nature of the violence that erupts out of the slums of the ruins of the atom-bombed city.  As the English subtitle translates the original Japanese title, these are Battles without Honor and Humanity - there is no honour among thieves here.

Given five full-length films to expand the story, one would expect there to be greater clarity than there actually is in the complicated sequence of alliances and betrayals that exist between the rival yakuza gangs in Hiroshima, but rather than aim for a simplified version of events, Fukasaku shows the whole thing in all its complexity.  Notionally based around one main gangster, Shozo Hirono (the marvellous Bunta Sugawara) and his complicated relationship with the Yamamori clan, the five films of the Yakuza Papers in actuality take in a number of views, with many different characters rising to prominence before meeting their inevitable fate of being gunned down in an ignominious manner in a public street, brothel or bar.

The whole series adds up to what Fukasaku biographer Sadao Yamana describes in the extra features to this set as, "compelling chaos", and much of the reason why the viewer is compelled to see the events through the often complex relationships and alliances (none of which are in reality bound by any kind of sense of honour or anything other than self-preservation), is down to Fukasaku's incredibly dymanic technique.  Filmed in its entirety over only 35-40 days, the films are however incredibly well shot and edited, using all the techniques at the director's disposal - freeze-frames, oblique angles, on-screen captions - showing the influence of French New Wave in its hand-held cameras that jump right into the action, drawing the viewer in with them.

The US 6-disc DVD set from Homevision does its best to make this terrific and highly influential set of films accessible for the viewer, with booklets, essays and a whole disc of interviews that try to get to the secret of Fukasaku's brilliance.  The films themselves look fine, in their correct widescreen ratio, anamorphically enhanced, boldly coloured and showing no marks or damage, showing only some minor compression artefacts.  These are much better than the treatments that the UK releases of Fukasaku's other gangster films have been subjected to, and a fine way to see a terrific set of films.