Who would think that seeing StarCrash beautifully restored and in 1080p would totally change my opinion of this obscure gem?

You see my first run-in with this film was via the French DVD release from a few years back. I can safely say that I was not impressed. Sourced from what looked like an actual exhibition print, colors were muddy and dull. Sound on the English track was even worse. Added to this I went in expect what most online reviews have incorrectly called a Star Wars rip-off.

Oh, how things have changed! I now absolutely love this film! In order to understand and appreciate StarCrash you have to know it's background. Director Luigi Cozzi is like a kid in a candy shop. Every genre he grew up loving and admiring in Italy has been stuffed into StarCrash! From Harryhausen, Barbarella, cliffhanger serials, and beyond. It may be set in space, but Star Wars it ain't (thankfully).

StarCrash is a romp. Cheesy, yes! Fun as hell! Mesmerizing and absolutely engrossing! It's not high art and it was never meant to be. Everything that should be wrong (scripting, production values, special effects, some of the acting) is somehow right for this film. Plus it's all wrapped up in John Barry's glorious score.

Shout Factory has done wonders with this release. Rescuing Roger Corman's decaying elements and producing an eye-popping transfer. The film has probably never looked this good. I know some were complaining about the bit rate on this, but it only dips down low in scenes with optical effects.

Enlisting Stephen Romano to produce bonus content was a no brainer. The man absolutely is nuts about this film, and thank God for that! I'm sure Shout regretted getting him involved when the bills came in! It is the most packed of the Roger Corman releases so far and there isn't a duff feature included. The interview with Luigi Cozzi is very enlightening. He explains his early years and the genesis of the film, the writing process, casting, and production. We also get the true story of Star Riders, the StarCrash sequel that never was - in more ways than one!

Caroline Munro is on hand to give a lengthy interview about her career and her time as Stella Star! Now this feature has been criticized by some and the points raised are certainly valid. However, I would rather have it than not have it! I appreciate that Shout went through the trouble of getting Caroline involved. The final product may not be as technically polished as the others on the disc, but I'm glad it's here.

The star of the release though is Stephen Romano. His two audio commentaries will tell you everything you need to know about the film (including who dubbed Caroline's voice!). There is no overlap between the two and it feels like one is listening to a film school professor preparing you for a final exam! I honestly feel that once you understand the background of why StarCrash came to be, and the actual production of the film, you will walk away with a better appreciation of it.

Now add to this, deleted scenes, trailers with commentary by Joe Dante and Eli Roth, a fun feature on special effects by Armando Valcauda, rare photos, and a music feature. Shout has totally spoiled us! I am eternally grateful for everyone involved in making this such a special release. My love of StarCrash is now never ending. I am officially a Crasher for life!