It's been eight years since ex-con Dominic Toretto drove across the Mexican border, committing himself to a fugitive existence. Now, holed up in a beach shack in the Dominican Republic, and living on the run with the sole remnant of his past, Lett, he tries to piece together a new life. But he knows the authorities are always just steps behind him. And, when a tragic death of someone he loves brings Brian O'Conner back to L.A., Dom reignites his feud with the agent. As they are forced to confront a shared enemy, a sociopathic drug kingpin who is flooding the U.S. with lethal product, Dom and Brian must give it to an uncertain new trust if they hope to outmaneuver him and avenge the tragedy that he caused their small de facto family to endure.

Now here's something you wouldn't expect in the Fast and the Furious series: A sequel that is better than the original. I have to say, F&F is an impressive film compared to the first, a film that I already was impressed by. I guess the main reason is because of the nostalgia. F&F is a very satisfying film only if you watch it back to back with TFaTF, unless you can remember watching TFaTF a couple of years ago.

One thing that is extremely enjoyable about this film is how it references the first film, and it references the first film quite a few times. Another thing that is great is that the action sequences are more entertaining and still well made. Take the opening scene, for example. It's supposed to reference the opening scene in the first film but the one in this sequel is much more thrilling and exciting as hell. It's filled with so much energy that you'll be blown away and the use practical effects rather than CGI (with an exception of the climax of that scene) is commendable.

Speaking of CGI, the film, I'll admit, does use it more frequently than the original, especially the climax sequence. I guess that's a weak point of the film because the Fast and the Furious films are known for realistic car sequences. I liked the story as well because there's more weight to it. Add on to the fact that our four-member clan has reunited since the first film, which is really excellent. We get to see Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster, and Michelle Rodriguez develop their characters a couple of years after the first film. They seem much more mature and emotional in their roles.

Overall, I think this sequel is a perfectly well made film, even to an extent that it's better than the first film. The action sequences are more exciting than ever and you get to see the original clan reunite after two sequels! What's not to like?