It's a good reminder of the people who laid down their lives to protect our freedoms. The movie posed this question at one point, to trust God and or radar?

Other historical movies, about war,  that are really well done, and offer the ultimate message of hope even in the worst of circumstance, would be:

- Sophie Scholl: The final days
- The hiding place
- War of resistance (return to the hiding place)

- To end all Wars

- 180movie.com an award-winning controversial video.  It's 33 minutes that will rock your world.  It's about hilter, the nazis, abortion. And the GOOD NEWS OF the GOSPEL the LORD JESUS CHRIST.  You can watch for free on YouTube. It has over a million hits.

This is the best war movie ever because it shares how we can have peace with God who we are at war with, in our sinfully rebellion.

From God's word the bible: Colossians 1:21

Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because off your evil behavior. But now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation-- if you continue in your faith, established and firm, not moved from the hope held out in the gospel. This is the gospel that you heard and that has been proclaimed to every creature under heaven, and of which I, Paul, have become a servant.

From God's word the bible: Romans 5:1
Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand.

Please read the following questions carefully, be honest and listen to
your conscience. Would you consider yourself to be a good person? The
Bible declares, most men will proclaim their own goodness. Let's see if you qualify as being a good person. Have you ever told a lie? Have  you ever stolen anything, irrespective of its value? Have you ever used God's name to curse?  Jesus said, I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart?

Have you ever looked at someone with lust? The Bible says that if
someone hates another person they are a murderer (I John 3:15). Have
you ever hated anyone? If you have answered, Yes, to the previous
questions, then you have admitted that you are a liar, a thief, a
blasphemer, an adulterer and a murderer and we've only looked at 5 of the 10 Commandments. If God were to judge you by this standard would you be innocent or guilty?  You know you are guilty and deserving of
an eternity in Hell.

Jesus Christ came to earth and died a criminal's death not because He
had broken the Law, but because we had. God demonstrates his own love
for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. What
should you do?  Repent, turn from your sins & put your complete faith
in Jesus Christ as your Savoir and Lord.  You may die today, in your
sin. Is there any reason why you would not accept God's gift?  More
info at living waters website with true & false conversion audio
sermon. God Bless!