The original "Metropolis" as conceived by Fritz Lang in 1926 is, regrettably, lost. The wholesale gutting by Channing Pollock of the original in the US and the UFA (in Germany) hatchet job of 1927 have ensured that the most ambitious German film of the 1920s (and the most expensive) is lost. The Kino version is the most comprehensive reconstruction possible with existing resources, without resort to the use of stills as Giorgio Moroder did in his mid 1980s iteration. Kino is to be congratulated in reviving the original score and including a feature of rare stills and explanatory notes to the DVD.  
A couple of observations first, the quality of the film is excellent thanks to an assiduous remastering. Sound is good for the score (it is a silent movie after all), titles are the originals as printed, and the whole effort has been to recreate authentically a truncated masterpiece. I've seen a number of different prints of the film over the last twenty years, but the quality of this presentation is unbeaten. The only negatives are the scanty biographies of the principals, which any devotee would dismiss as insubstantial, and the failure to use some of the stills Moroder used back in 1986. There is at least one tracking shot in the Moroder colourised version, of the Hel sculpture (and that is spelt "Hel"), which has been left out of the Kino disk.It can be argued that using stills would only detract from the objective of re-creating as fully as possible the "moving picture" of Metropolis. A more fulsome extract of the original plot at the end would have been appreciated. There are a number of out of print books (by Ace SF and Lorrimer Classic Film Scripts) including the screenplay and the novelisation which could have been used for an explanatory synopsis. 
These are minor misgivings, the disk recaptures the wonder of the original as much as possible. It is unlikely that any devotee could acquire a better record of this relic of the silent era. I can heartily recommend it, and hope all viewers experience the enjoyment I felt as a teenager going to a midnight showing in a seedy part of town of the renowned "Metropolis"...