Apparently, the moniker doesn't fit everything in the movie, otherwise the movie wouldn't feel so unattractive in a sense. I heard this was supposed to be a movie spinoff of Barbershop. Turns out the movie is more of a terrible take on being a prologue to Barbershop 2, really. Queen Latifah has been through some nice roles, but as soon as she stopped doing feminist rap, she has been denounced back into ghetto black woman, as with all of us. Therefore, making the movie a bit bland, done before, and  becoming nothing more than art imitating life imitating art imitating wonder. As a matter of fact, calling this art would really be an insult. It's us looking through the mirror out of the window. There are never any middle for the movie. The movie is supposed to be Gina cutting herself off from a narcissistic wreck of a hairstylist Jorge, after Jorge kept on saying that he owns Gina, so to speak. After that, there was no compromising, she busts out the stereotype and shows what you do when you pish off a modern black woman.

 As soon as she gets a loan to open up her shop, she ends up building the beauty shop with the examples of the stereotypical women. And this is where it kicks in: Alicia's Silverstone's character gets the cold shoulder by the same women (minus the kid -- thank the lord, they cut the little girl out of the atrocious act), giving us the satisfaction that if you aren't ghetto, you ain't it, miss thang. Plus, it is their talk in constant slang and stereotypes I can just go to highschools for is what made me want to hit the Mute button throughout the entire thing. While they work they either hit on a man with muscles and a voice, talk about anyone who doesn't fit in,and anything else I can't really stand, and that you may bind in a barbershop, but in correct subtlety. In fact, compare The Original Kings of Comedy and The Queens of Comedy and it will explains the whole thang. ALso in the movie Keisha Knight-Pulliam says "She all about visual" and fixes the woman's hair up. And as soon as Gina gets her bag from a cross dressing salesman, she walks in and the girl looks like a die-hard fan of Cyndi Lauper. And that is a hairstyle so bad, that we were wondering who the women were really trying to impress by the skill, and whom she has to impress that riding a time machine will up her arrogance masked as confidence and style.

 I don't know how much I am going to take of this, but in advance, this movie is not the female version of Barbershop, because everyone is different enough to love, whereas the characters are all pretty out there, leaving you to learn nothing from the movie than what Barbershop can actually do for you. Get Barbershop instead. It shows triumph and purpose of existence without all that cluttered crapadora that will make you want to turn off the movie, for good. Plus, it has more of a community and a believable feel than Beauty Shop. And if I see ANY boy try to hit on the older woman with lines that will kill, I will fully regret being a black man. I already do kind of. A black man in America, at that. Forgive the racist moniker. And I know that if you don't have any good to say, don't say it at all, but then again, would this movie exist without it? The movie would last only 30 minutes without a point or a giveaway but to continue perpetual disappointment.

Rating: ** of ***** (If anyone is looking for laughs, you may like this and White Chicks, too.)