There is one major flaw in this film of which I am acutely aware each time I view it and yet I cannot bring myself to give it less than five stars.

It is fifty seven years after the events in ALIEN and Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) has spent all that time in suspended animation because her escape craft, the Narcissus, drifted out of the commonly traveled space routes. Luckily for her and for us her craft was detected and picked up by a deep space salvage vessel.

Soon she is convalescing in the hospital wing of a huge space station in Earth's orbit that did not exist in her time, everyone she knew is dead and her sleep is haunted by her experience on the Nostromo. Except for a seemingly friendly and sensitive executive named Burke from the Weyland Yutani Corporation (her employers) she is alone and worse; she is out of her time.

With little time to recover, she soon finds herself before a skeptical and unsympathetic board of inquiry commissioned by the Weyland Yutani Corporation with her frustration at their refusal to believe her story culminating in an impassioned but insulting outcry to no avail as the case is summarily closed. She soon learns the reason for the board's skepticism. LV-426, the small planet (moon actually) on which the events of ALIEN began is being terra-formed. There are already some sixty to seventy people on the planet including whole families. The fact that they have not found the alien craft does not ease her sense of dread as she knows that the inevitable will occur.

The inevitable comes true of course as all contact with the colonists ceases. Soon Burke and The Colonial Marines are on their way to investigate along with an initially reluctant Ripley who was asked to serve as an advisor. This is the major flaw in this film as the little she does know about the Xenomorph is explained in less than a minute and we also learn that they have a full report from her on disc. Her reason for going is both therapeutic (facing her fear) and to have her A-rating restored which was taken away from her because of her actions fifty seven years before and for psychiatric reasons. Another motive to restore her rating is because her current rating renders her unable to make a sutible living and she is in fact living in poverty.

Like Ridley Scott before him, James Cameron spends considerable time setting up the story and drawing the audience in to what seems to be a fully fleshed out universe. The Marines with their barrack's humor are a refreshing change from the characters we met before but there is still an underlying sense of unease, I mean it's ALIENS for goodness sake and we know that at some point the jocularity is going to come to an end. Also like ALIEN the actors all come off as totally believable, a feat that I find can only be achieved in science fiction when all involved take the material seriously. The Colonial Marine ship, The Sulaco is not completely without tension however as Ripley soon discovers that Bishop is an android, a fact that does not sit well with her.

Soon after, we find ourselves on the surface of LV-426, the atmosphere of which has been rendered breathable via the massive atmosphere processor set up and maintained by the colonists. Even here Cameron exercises restraint as he deftly teases us with the suspense of our own expectations going so far as to supply us with a little jump start, a precursor of things to come. It's all over rather quickly and things settle down luring the audience into a feeling of calm before they get swept away by the storm.

In the second half of this film James Cameron manages to mix high action with intense suspense, a feat very few directors before him or since have been able to pull off as deftly. Like ALIEN before it, the effect ALIENS has on the viewer is the result of the time spent by both directors establishing not just the characters but the atmosphere as well. One merely needs to compare ALIEN and ALIENS to Alien vs. Predator: Requiem to fully appreciate the value of patience coupled with a healthy dose of respect for the material and the audience. By contrast, in AVP Requiem a whole nursery of newborns is killed but at that point you just don't care.  Now that's bad filmmaking.

There a few surprises in ALIENS, all unexpected and striking yet meshing seamlessly with the rest of the film and as with ALIEN, it is rife with metaphors and subtext delivered with a carefully restrained hand rendering it enjoyable by all, in a sweaty, heart pounding, teeth gritting kind of way.

PS. The following might dispel a common misconception for you.

When Ripley takes the one elevator down to the basement level, it automatically goes back up once she steps out. Later when she goes back to the elevator she furiously hits the button for the one elevator to come back down, after a few seconds, in frustration and heart pounding fear, she hits the other button for the second elevator.

Remember the elevators go back up automatically.