The Amazon review of this movie hit the nail on the head - anyone hoping to write the next great screen comedy should forget the how-to books and the comedy-by-numbers formulas, and instead study this movie inside out and understand how and why it works. It is one of Hollywood's greatest comedies - the AFA rated it the best comedy in film history.

Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are dead-on accurate in their comedic timing and their characterizations. Their delivery is flawless, never coming off as scripted or forced. And they are a scream, especially Jack Lemmon as Curtis's hapless sidekick. Lemmon delivers laughs both when he speaks and when he's simply giving Curtis nasty glares.

Marilyn Monroe, although not a genuinely great actress, here is cast in the perfect role - in which her own personality lends itself to Sugar Kowalczyk. She plays the not-too-bright blonde role to the hilt and interacts with Curtis/Lemmon brilliantly. Frequently in comedic pairings or trios, one element is flat and has to be carried by the other or others - but in this case, the three leads are flawless together.

And Joe Brown as millionaire Osgood nearly steals the show - if it weren't for Lemmon's own performance, Brown would have stolen the show entirely. His last line, the final line of the last scene of the film, is the biggest scream of the whole movie.

The script is brilliant and the director made terrific choices in terms of letting the actors work naturally together, opting for B&W instead of color, etc. The only drag on the film comes from the gangsters, who seem to have been lifted wholesale from ganster movies of a few decades earlier - their part in the story takes a bit too long to develop, and during that time Curtis and Lemmon don't have much to do, if anything at all. Nevertheless they are crucial to the story and are not part of "filler" material, as they would be in contemporary comedies.

Buy this movie, don't rent it, or buy the special edition if you want the additional interviews and reminiscences. It's an essential part of a complete movie collection.