This film will probably only please sci-fi fans, and that only if they're willing to put up with the many inconsistencies Immortal has to offer.  The dialogue is awkward, sometimes nonsensical; the only native English speaker in the small cast of real actors is Rampling, and even some of her lines seem stilted and unnatural.  The rest of the cast are CGI characters, and that is obvious from the stiff movements and inability of their lips to keep up with the dialogue.  The plot is not fleshed out fully, and at the end of the movie there are a lot of unexplained loose ends.

OK, so having said all that, I gave Immortal 4 stars out of 5.  Why?  The film has an almost magical, hypnotic effect (at least on me).  The background shots of New York in 2095 are wonderful, and the CGI characters are very well done (if not quite perfect).  The unnatural dialogue and obviously CGI characters lend an artistic and dream-like quality to the film; in other words, even the film's inadequacies contribute to its overall other-wordliness.  It's a haunting vision of a bizarre future, and I thoroughly enjoyed watching it (several times).

One complaint I have about this release is this:  while the film has been released in English, there are several places where two different languages are spoken, but with no English subtitles.  There are several exchanges between the various Egyptian gods, apparently in some ancient Egyptian language (?), and having seen the film originally on TPS Star, I remember French subtitles were provided.  Not so on this DVD. As a result, we miss dialogue between the gods (and between Horus and the Dayak) that is relevant to the plot -- all we hear is gibberish. Also, at the end, Jill quotes Baudelaire in French, with no subtitles for those us not fluent en francais.  Nikopol also quotes Baudelaire, but has the courtesy to do it in English translation.  This is my main beef with this DVD.  Otherwise, it's a beautiful and ambitious movie if you're able to look past its deficiencies.