Dog Day Afternoon is my favourite film. But what makes it stand out? A few things. Firstly, there's the acting.

Al Pacino is brilliant - obviously - and he makes Sonny seem really believable. Then there's the *sob* late John Cazale (who tragically died a year or two after Dog Day Afternoon was made,

from bone cancer) who is one of the most underrated actors ever. Then there's Chris Sarandon who is fantastic as Leon. Dog Day Afternoon isn't exactly meant to be a comedy, but I can't help but laugh at the bit when you first see him, and while Sonny is standing outside the bank, smiling and waving and shouting "Leon!", Leon is looking very confused and bewildered and then faints. It shouldn't really be funny, but it is... The rest of the cast are superb as well.

Something else that's good about Dog Day Afternoon is the lack of soundtrack (except for the cheesy Elton John song that plays at the start). The good thing about not having a soundtrack, is that it doesn't ruin the suprise. For example, when something scary is about to happen you don't know (unless, like me, you have rewatched Dog Day Afternoon a million times) because there is no creepy music playing, which it makes it all more exciting and shocking when it does happen.

The fact that Dog Day Afternoon is based on a true story also helps, because it adds another dimension to the film. At the end, in the airport scene (which is the only scene in a film that has ever made my cry), you see text at the bottom of the screen, telling you what happened to all the characters afterwards. I walked away thinking to myself "I'd love to meet the real Sonny..." Of course, I would probably be very disappointed - not all bank robbers look like Al Pacino.

The final thing that is great about Dog Day Afternoon is that it's very emotional, especially at the end but it's also funny in some places. Just looking at Sal makes me laugh (and cry when I think about what happens to him later) and there are some funny lines as well "Sal, Wyoming's not a country."

Please, please, please buy this film. You won't regret it.