I am a 71 year old retired engineer with a Celtic background,Irish and Scotch,living up here in the Great White North .I am about as far along the conventional spectrum as Crumb is along the non-conventional.I have been a fan of all sorts of comics since a kid. Growing up I was fascinated by the comics of the 40's and 50's. Our's was the era of Dick Tracy,L'il Abner,Pogo,Little Orphan Annie,Joe Paloka,Superman,Crime Comics,and on and on .In those days everyone,young and old,followed the daily comics or as we called them "The Funnies" However;they were not always funny,as a matter of fact,they were downright serious;and if the truth were really known,we probably learned more about life from the comics that from anything else,including school..Oh yeah,then there was the Pool Hall;but that was totally different educational institution. That was where you learned to take responsibility for your actions.There one learned; "The Lesson you paid for,the Experience was free."
 So,why would an old duffer like me watch and enjoy this Video so much?
 Well,although I'm an engineer ,I really enjoy many forms of art.I prefer Realism,Graphics,Illustration,Nature Art,and particularly the art intergal to cartoons and especially Comics.I am a big fan of Doonesbury and find Trudeau's art very interesting.
 Again ,so why Crumb? My interest in "recent"  comics has fairly well waned since my local paper carries only  Doonesbury which is of interest to me. I am fascinated with the artwork we see in Fantasy and Sci Fi but I don't follow or read that.
 I am also fascinated with some of the illustration that the young people are doing.It is extremely good but the storyline is a disconnect with me.Don't take me wrong,I realize each new generation's taste changes.
 I have picked up some of Crum's books and was really taken with his artwork;and have often wondered what sort of mind would produce this sort of thing.
 This Video does an excellent job of showing the personality of Crum and what and why he drew the comics he did. We are given an in depth view into Crum's mind and those of the rest of the family.To say they are unusual is a great understatement.So often, we see that great artists walk to a different drummer.We also get a great insight into the enviroment where Crum lived.It is only through such a different lifestyle that provides a fertile imagination to develop.Could anyone ever believe that Crum grew up and lived in a conventional neighborhood?
  I was really taken by watching Crum actually drawing.The way he handles a pen and transfers ideas from his mind into images on paper ;it is simply magical.
 For a very personal insight into the mind of a one-of-a-kind artist;you would be hard pressed to find anything better.