It's not for nothing that Kelly's Heroes has enjoyed a growing cult following over the past 30 years--it's that exceptional. The cast is a remarkable gathering of some of the biggest names in entertainment by 1970 and each actor fits perfectly into his role in a way that's practically unheard of these days. I can only imagine the fun the actors had making this film because their enthusiasm is obvious--it rubs off on the viewer. This is a playful historical fiction, delightfully revisionary at times, and as irreverent comedy, the film is classic; it features some well calculated anachronisms, such as Oddball (note to Leonard Maltin: why do you think they really called him Oddball?), played unforgettably by Donald Sutherland, a Vietnam-era soldier/poet/lover/flower child, whose chutzpah acts to counterbalance the uptight Big Joe (Sevalas) and the disaffected, self-motivated Kelly (Eastwood). "Crap Game" (Rickles) is the quintessential New York hustler and the film wouldn't be the same without his performance, the unforgettable lines like, "make a deal, maybe the guy's a Republican." (It helps to see the film in light of its own time). 
The strength of the film is in it's characterization (many of the soldier characters coming straight out of a Bill Mauldin cartoon), the performances, and the story (itself a sort of classic, copied by the makers of "Three Kings"). And yet Kelly's Heroe's was probably the most accurate WWII movie up to it's time (and then some) for military equipment and dress. For example, the dark and enigmatic German Mark VI "Tiger" tanks, with their black-suited SS crewmen, are wonderfully reproduced even down to the anti magnetic mine paste.
Kelly's Heroes is cool, confident, unassuming, irreverent, and early anti-war WWII movie (from a time when the war was seen very much as "the good war") and what better way to achieve this than as a comedy, even a black comedy (you probably won't see perhaps a more realistic and jarring depiction of a man stepping on an anti-personel mine than in this film). Kelly's Heroes flies in  the face of contemporary political correctness compulsions; today an anti-war film has to be heavy-handed, symbolic, and have some sort of social or political message (as did "Three King's"). When "Saving Private Ryan" first ran, some reviewers compared it to Kelly's Heroes, citing that the latter was "not serious and realistic enough." Kelly's Heroes is growing in popularity as a cult film precisely because it's makers weren't so hung up on verisimilitude and social realism that they couldn't create a fun, interesting story with some good old-fashioned humor. That's fiction, Leonard M., F-I-C-T-I-O-N.