12 O'Clock High is one of the best films on leadership ever made. The story opens with the return to England of American bomber pilots from a daylight bombing mission over Nazi occupied Europe.  Colonel Keith Davenport (Gary Merrill) is the commander of a squadron whose task it is to destroy German military installations.  He is a competent professional officer who cares deeply for his men.  Unfortunately, in his zeal to keep them from being killed, he forgets his mission and is relieved of his command.
Col. Davenport is replaced by General Frank Savage (Gregory Peck), who says to the pilots at his first meeting with them, "Consider yourself already dead."  This speech signals a completely different approach to leadership.  General Savage relentlessly trains the pilots and succeeds in building a first-rate fighting unit.  His hard line does not come without a price.  His men rebel and want to be transferred out of the unit.  Only with the help of his adjutant (Dean Jagger) does Savage hold the group together and begin to build competence and esprit de corp.
The effects of contrasting leadership styles have seldom been so effectively portrayed.  Colonel Davenport is a first-rate officer who over identifies with his men and fails miserably.  The moral of the story is that the appropriate leadership style is essential to accomplish challenging goals and objectives.  It is not enough to be hard working, conscientious, and caring.  Leaders must analyze the situation, know the competence and commitment of their people, and then select the style of leadership appropriate for the task at hand.
The dramatic scenes between Davenport, Savage, and the American pilots are expertly written and filled with tension.  Actual war footage is used for several of the action scenes and the film moves forward at a steady pace.  The performances of the entire cast are excellent with Gregory Peck, always a reliable actor, at the top of his form. Dean Jagger took home the Academy Award for best supporting actor in a film that deserved similar honors.