When I first saw the commercials and previews for this movie, I wrote it off as "another of those kids' movies" and had no interest in seeing it.

However, recently my fiancee and I stumbled upon it and (for some reason) decided to give it a chance - I was glad we did! This movie has got something for everyone in it, and everyone can watch it: there is no swearing or sex in it, just a story (told from the perspective of an older gentleman in a bar) about Angus (who I would say is between 5 and 6 years old) who is struggling with loneliness after his father left to go fight in World War II. Angus also is terribly frightened of water, but one day he happens to find a big, mysterious stone-like object (later revealed to be an egg) on the shores of Loch Ness. Angus hurries home with the egg and hides it from his family in his dad's workshop. Angus lingers behind in the workshop for several minutes, prying off a layer of crust, scaling and what appear to be barnacles, only to find out that the item is, in fact, an egg, and it's breaking open.

The hatchling emerges and begins to ransack the workshop, and Angus is worried that it will make too much noise and be discovered. Around this time, a handyman (later seen to be a former British Navy sailor) shows up to do some work around Angus's mom's estate. At first Angus doesn't like the new stranger - perhaps because he feels that the new man will try to take his dad's place, or feels that the handyman will discover (and dispose of) Angus's new friend (named "Crusoe" after a book Angus sees on his dad's shelf). These feelings are quickly resolved, however, as Angus's new friend begins to grow quickly.

Crusoe is discovered in the bathtub (as Angus had recently discovered that the rapidly-growing creature loves water) by the handyman, but to Angus's surprise he embraces the creature and tells Angus some of the legend associated with it (that there can only be one "water horse" in the world at a time).

By this point, a garrison of British soldiers was staying in the estate as well, since they believed that German subs could ambush Scotland via the "loch", and had devised a system for ensnaring - and destroying - the submarines if any did show up in the loch.

Lewis (the handyman) and Angus take the enormous (by my guess, the size of an average house) Crusoe to the loch and slip him into the water. A British soldier spots the creature's head and neck (about the same shape as a periscope) and alerts his commander, who thinks that the Germans are coming. Angus and Lewis fight to convince the British otherwise, but is it too late? You'll have to see this movie for yourself to find out!

Very, very highly recommended - there's something in this movie for everyone, even though, on the surface, it appears to be aimed at a younger audience.