There are so many levels that Batman: The Animated Series works on that it is difficult if not impossible to sum them up in any review. However, I would like to try. First, the show gave Batman an aesthetic that was at once pleasing to children and to adults. Gotham City is a dark and dirty urban distopia not unlike Tim Burton's noir-ish portrayal of the Dark Knight's home, albeit in the animated series it is trimmed up into a classy art deco design. As is well known, the series animators were inspired by Max Fleischer's Superman cartoons, which are themselves classic. Their appreciation of older animation shows through and yet at no point dominates Batman: The Animated Series. Instead, watching these cartoons is like watching a whole tradition come to life. We see Burton's films, the 1930s early backdrop, a modern Gotham, art deco designs, Max Fleischer's Superman work. The series deserved its many awards for fine animation.

However, there is something else that needs to be touched upon: the story lines are simply brilliant. Although this began as a kid's cartoon, it brought with it an immensely complex and compelling level of psychological depth. It is not too much to say that Dini, Timm, and company effectively raised a number of existentially big questions in the series, ranging from the nature of friendship, the trauma of memory, betrayal, jealousy, loss, and above all justice and the possibility of redemption. I think that Batman: The Animated Series is not far removed from a form of moral pedagogy. It is a shame in my mind that the series ended after volume three (volume four is not a direction continuation of the series).  The creative minds never ran out of juice, as it were, and the Ra's al Ghul episodes are especially interesting an enjoyable.  I treasure this series; my girlfriend and I have watched its many episodes many times and, above all, I look forward to sharing it someday with my own children. I do believe that this is the finest compliment that I can give it.