I'm a little late in watching this, but I just got this uncut PG-13 version over the weekend while Christmas shopping for my family (sorry, I just *couldn't* resist), and I'll give you some of my thoughts on it.
The plot: The new Batman, Terry McGinnis, encounter a street gang called The Jokerz (influenced by the Clown Prince Of Crime himself) who are stealing high-tech satellite equipment. From there, we see that The Joker himself has returned, and is leading the gang. Mister J himself makes an appearance along with his gang at a party held in honor for Bruce Wayne's return to Head Of Wayne Enterprises (where the last piece of satellite equipment is located) and the former Batman is shocked to say the least. From there, it becomes a mystery for the new Batman to solve (how did Joker die in the first place, how did he return, what is he planning, and how does he know Bruce Wayne is Batman). The answers to some of these questions in this unedited DVD version will shock you.
Originally, this was heavily edited due to WB corporate executives concern over the dark scenes and mature content, and was a pain ... for the producers of the movie (who also produced the Batman Beyond TV show) to edit. Long time fans of Bruce Timm's Batman Beyond series demanded the unedited version to be released and even signed an on-line petition. In April 2002, the unedited version was released on DVD.
Seeing this on DVD is great. This movie looks great in wide-screen format (just gives the uncut version that professional touch), and sounds great too. I can hear the little sounds that a VHS recording couldn't pick up and it really just adds to the enjoyment of the movie (kind of like viewing it in a theater (or close to it anyway ;) ).
The story comes off better in its original form (with the flashback still being the best part). The voice cast performances were awesome, with Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill peaking their long time roles of Batman and The Joker respectively. I know some fans were disappointed that Dana kind of disappeared from the story (as were the producers), but I am not, as the story was about Bruce, Terry, Tim, and The Joker anyway.
The extras:
The deleted storyboarded scene was nice, and kind of a shame that it didn't make the final cut. The commentary track was interesting and had great info (and Bruce Timm sounds like Wes Craven, which was weird) and shows the love that the creators and producers and writers have for these characters. The documentary was nicely done, and Kevin Conroy kinda talks like Al Gore in real life, which is also weird for me. Haven't watched the music video or trailers yet, but I'm probably not missing much. Oh, and Paul Dini (the guy who wrote the screenplay for the movie) is a wonderfully sneaky little devil for writing Harley Quinn (Joker's henchgirl) back in the way he did after he was forced to kill her off in the flashback scene. Congrats Paul, your check is in the mail. ;)
Final thoughts:
All and all, this was a great viewing experience. Bruce Timm, Paul Dini, & company should be handling the next live action Batman movie because they know these characters and how to bring them to life (forget Burton or Shumacher).