The reviewers here run the gamut -- some praise ICGOS as some of Judy's finest work; others are dismissive of her efforts and the film as a whole.  It's true that the parallels between Jenny Bowman and Judy Garland are legion.  Both were performers who understood their audience and their fans, who were loved by many, but still couldn't always come through for them.

I've read that the shoot was difficult...that Judy left town the moment shooting was done allowing no retakes and that they literally used every frame they had of her in the final film.

Yes, the film is melodramatic at times and yes, Yip Harburg let her down with the lyrics in the title song, but this film does provide some beautiful imagery of Judy in concert and gives us the closest approximation to what that was like.  (Yes, her TV show is excellent, too, but that's in B&W video as opposed to full color here.)

The other songs were great.  Her on-screen rendition of BY MYSELF, IT NEVER WAS YOU and HELLO BLUEBIRD are all superb and truly capture a great performer in concert.  Even I COULD GO ON SINGING (the song) has a great message of hope and perseverance, if one can look beyond all the barnyard metaphors.

Judy was only 40 years old when they shot this film and it's really too bad that it marked the end of her film career.  But, there's a heaviness and a weariness in her whole persona by then that makes her seem much older -- even if you can't place why.  It's the sum total of how she was by the early 1960s -- and this was in a period that she was relatively healthy after convalescing in London for most of 1960 and then returning to the concert stage in 1961 in the fantastic tour which included her date with destiny at Carnegie Hall.  She had also completed 3 other films just prior to this -- her Oscar-nominated turn in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG, a b&w drama for John Cassavettes, A CHILD IS WAITING and her first and only animated feature, GAY PURREE.  She even did another television special for CBS which led to her series the following year.  It was a level of professional activity she'd not seen since her MGM days.

Had she been healthier and not such a risk for the studios, she could have spent the 1950s and 1960s continuing to do great work on the movie screens, where she belonged.  Alas, we'll never have ANNIE GET YOUR GUN, THE BARKELEYS OF BROADWAY or a host of other roles for which she should have and would have been considered (Mama Rose in the film version of GYPSY, for instance, or for the film version of Mame -- she was about 12 years younger than Lucille Ball!)  Heck, think about it, had her life played out differently and had she been a healthy 45-year-old, she could have played Dolly Levi!  Those are the coulda, woulda, shoulda lists -- almost unimaginable except to think about only in the most abstract ways had Judy been in good health and taken better care of herself from the 1940s onward.

I guess I'd rate this as something you must see if you call yourself a Judy Garland fan.  She rises to the occasion and offers up the goods -- both in the on-stage musical numbers and in the very personal and up-close dramatic scenes.  But, the film itself can't quite get out of its own way long enough to endure as much of anything beyond "Judy's last film."  But for many of us, well, that's enough.