Only a white person or brainwashed black person would label a movie that deals accurately with the truth of Hollywood and this country's treatment of black people RACIST. You would rather pretend that everything is honky dorey in america, as if black people aren't wasting away in it's slums and ghettos. One need only look at the statistics to see how deprived the so-called african-american truly is to discover that there is really a problem. If you can't see it you are clearly in denial. Civil rights has only slapped a band-aid on a a bullet wound.

We have now entered a century where the people have given into second class citizenship and are happy to demoralize themselves for money and fame at the expense of their own people. White people have used and plotted against black people for years, and we have allowed it. We are the joke of this country, an issue to be dealt with on a back burner, that they can just pretend doesn't exist. Willie Lynch did his job and his descendents are making sure his work continues. If this offends you then so be it. The Most High has promised his people that He will be the only one to save them. I know this is a fact. We don't need pity or reparations, we need to take responsibility for our own actions as a people. The stereotypes are true for a huge majority of the black population. Wake up!

But you won't wake-up. You would rather believe that I am typing this review out of hate and anger than look at the facts. You would rather attack me personally than do research. Then go ahead... I only need to send out this message to tell you the truth of Yah's people. Now you read it and believe what you will but the truth will be shown pretty soon. Yah will redeem His true people and your money, status, and whatever wordly power you believe you possess will not save you from His wrath...

Oh by the way, excellent movie. Most of Spike Lee's joints are good anyway. If you call this movie racist then what will call the white people that did the black face and actually made it quite popular? What do you call the people who lynched black people for sport and used them to raise the cotton on their plantations? These are facts and there are many more.