Ah, what to say about "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" (R&GrDead)? In this classic stage-play-turned-movie, we find two characters with little background and no future in the play "Hamlet". They are, of course Rosencrantz and Guildenstern played by Tim Roth and Gary Oldman, respectively (or is it Gary Oldman and Tim Roth respectively? Meh, s'not important) and... well, they die.

As in all great tragedies, all the main characters suffer and then die. Hamlet is no different. The prince finds himself in a bit of a quandry as his mother has married her dead husband's brother. Hamlet becomes 2nd banana to the throne while his uncle-father proceeds with the usurping. Hamlet pretends (maybe) to be insane to preserve his own skin causing great suffering to his beloved Ophelia.  If his new king knew that Hamlet was sane, then Hamlet will soon follow the recently deceased king to the grave; more "Not to be" and less "To be".

Richard Dreyfus comes to the castle with his troupe of players to be the foil by playing a slightly altered "Murder of Gonzago". Having been the foil for the newly crowned king, and showing everyone how the old king was killed, we see Richard Dreyfus is also the foil for Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in foreshadowing their own demise within the play, and in the movie. In one of the best scenes, we see the play, "Hamlet", being played for Rosencrantz and Guildenstern viewing the scene where the King views the players playing the "Murder of Gonzago" being played while they themselves are in the play "Hamlet" in the movie "R&GrDead".  This quadruple nesting makes the geek in me all atwitter. Throughout it all, while trying to recover their past, discovering Gravity, Inertia, Archimedes Principle and Flight, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are tasked to determine what is wrong with their childhood friend, the Prince of Denmark.

A play within a play, it is a masterful piece of work with superb, thought-provoking humor and quick dialog. If you are not familiar with the play Hamlet, I would recommend watching it BEFORE "R&GrDead" (Kevin Branagh's version not Mel Gibson's). While "Hamlet" is tense, dramatic and everything a Shakespearian tragedy should be, "R&GrDead" is a witty comedy placed in a tragedy.

If you like Monty Python, Black Adder, Fawlty Towers, Absolutely Fabulous, etc., you are going to LOVE this move (some restrictions apply; not applicable in all fifty states; users may experience varying levels of mirth due to varying levels of intelligence and tolerance for the absurd).