A response to Brainman's critique dated 6/7/06: When I watch Journey To The Far Side Of The Sun, I assume EUROSEC is using ion propulsion for the trip to the new planet and back, otherwise your critique would definately be on target. A nuclear powered engine using ion propulsion traveling at approximately .000274 percent of the speed of light could make the trip to the new planet in 21 days. The second point on language-- that the doppleganger humans should be speaking backwards--isn't necessarily so according to a point that is made in the script. Near the end of the film there is speculation about the polarity of matter on the two worlds. Are they the same or are they reversed? The characters aren't sure. This leaves open the door that not everything on the new planet need be reversed. And when one thinks about the written word on the doppleganger planet, the inhabitants there, too, would have to read, and therefore speak, as we do. Why? Because, while it is true that script is reversed on the doppleganger planet, don't forget that the dopplegangers would be reading from the right to the left, and not from the left to the right as we do (assuming, of course, we're talking about english script). Therefore, the dopplegangers would speak as we speak if, let's say, they were reading script aloud! The third point on why Ross elected to eject the Dove from the Phoenix, and subsequently crash, setting off a spectacular series of explosions at EUROSEC, is because the Phoenix fired its retros. But this answer just begs the question: why did the Phoenix fire its retros at all? All we have to go by in the movie on this matter is Ross saying he doesn't know why the Phoenix fired its retros. The answer lies in security. If you recall, EUROSEC is not just about the business of space exploration, it's also about the business of keeping its secrets secret. Throughout the movie security is highlighted. This cult of secrecy that pervades EUROSEC informs us as to why the Phoenix fired its retros: because Phoenix's onboard computers identified a foreign object atteming to gain entry. Remember, when the Dove linked up with the Phoenix, the polarity of the doppleganger Dove's electrical systems were reversed from that of the Phoenix. The Phoenix recognized this foreign object attempting to gain entry and fired its retros, sending it into a downward spiral into the doppleganger Earth's athmospher. I hope these clarifications help.