Terrible! Cheesy! Unoriginal! This once again had a horrible, totally off-topic plot. This is NOTHING like Clive Barker wanted it to be. Hellseeker revolves around this man (who was awesome in TV show Oz, his character is weak and under-written here) having bad dreams and flash backs. When we think the movie is finally moving forward, it just jumps into another drawn-out, confusing flash back. It's like the director totally stole on Vanilla Sky where the viewers had no idea what was going on for an hour of the movie. Unlike Vanilla sky, the only difference in Hellseeker, is that the twist of the end does not nearly make up for it. Doug Bradly should refuse to star in such trash, where Pinhead is the least displayed and contained. These straight-to-video, cheap Hellraiser films could be so much better with a true to originals plot, some true graphic violence and gore, and NOT LIKE THE LAST THREE PARTS! 
The director (Rick Bota) and people behind the recent Hellraiser sequels (especially this one) actually think and say that fans will enjoy this???! Thanks for ruining everything once again and pissing fans off everywhere! If these are not going to be in the theater, it is more the reason to make them insane, graphic, and powerful, like the first 3 parts! (especially 1+2, thank you Clive Barker) If your not going to make a true, stylish, dark, gory, violent Hellraiser like parts 1-3, then STOP MAKING THEM! And stop making crap that revolves around one victim the whole movie, it is B-O-R-I-N-G! 
This "Hellseeker" sequel (I rented two days ago) only brings my impression of Pinhead down. These sequels are HURTING the originals. They stopped making sense with Bloodline. This is NOT how Hellraiser films are supposed to be! Pinhead says his one-liners for less than 5 minutes again!!! I waited two and a half years for this ...? A totally boring, repetitive plot. Pinhead is about total power, chaos, violence, intellect. In Hellseeker, just like in Inferno (but much worse) Pinhead is once again messing with one-persons head until we find out why the last 5 minutes of the movie. The cenobites were just there. They did not come through to our world at all. WHAT A DISAPPOINTMENT!!! Hollywood will do anything to make money. This is a perfect example. The director could have at lease gave some justice to the plot and how things happen. I could direct and write stuff much better than this. I have been a writer and a TRUE FAN since 1987, but I have lost all hope, especially after the unacceptable video-release of Hellseeker. True fans are very sad that the director and production have continued this weak, slow, non-violent, mystery-story approach regarding the follow-ups to a once classic series. Hellseeker is the worst in the series, I don't even consider them sequels anymore. Each chapter after part 4 (Bloodline) are like side these side-stories about one guy. It's just not Hellraiser anymore. It doesn't explore the amazing, interesting, violent unknown: as Clive Barker did it.