Transformed into the worlds most hideous monster with a diabolical lust to kill! Or so that was the slogan of the movie. Absolute rubbish! This film couldn't be more mis-leading. This film is a "sexploitation" film of the early sixties, with lots of bimbo girls running around in bikini's. Don't expect any nudity, and don't expect it to frighten you either. It is not a horror movie, as you are lead to believe. Upon reading the title, and the back of the DVD, you would think you are in for 90 minutes of giant spiders killing and maiming, and a guy hideously deformed by one of their bites goes nutzoid and starts killing all the poor defenceless naked girls. 
But, alas, no hope. This is a strange movie. The only reason it was marketed as a horror movie was because this genre was the biggest attraction of it's time. The film starts off promising enough. A group of girls and one man - Gary - are helplessly marooned on an island that contains relatively large spiders that look more like monkeys with rubber legs. Gary gets comically attacked by one of the "spiders", and is, in a matter of seconds, transformed into a monster. That's the first 15 minutes over with. From there the story goes off on a wild tangent, confusing the viewer. Gary does not re-appear until the very end of the movie, and only kills two of the dozen available for slaughter. The entire middle of the film is just women going around in those classical 60's bikinis. It's like watching Baywatch in 1960!
I don't honestly need to give a plot summary here as there really isn't one. It really is just a stupid film that is desperately trying to sell itself off as a sexy horror spider movie. There is no nudity. There is no horror. And there are only 3 spiders in the whole film!!!
This film is absolute tosh and a pure waste of money. Half way through the film you are left wondering: 'what the hell has happened to Gary, and where are all the spiders'. I too asked myself the same question.
The film is B&W, and hasn't aged too badly, although the sound has deteriorated a bit, and some scenes look a bit smudgy. But all in all, acceptable for rubbish of this kind. 
Best avoided unless you are collecting a definitive horror collection.