I'd like to commend the team responsible for the creation of this one-disc DVD package. If it had a filming journal composed by the crew during filming (as Gladiator does) and DTS sound included (as Gladiator does), it would be the best DVD I've ever purchased. As it is, the sheer quality of this DVD is amazing.
  First things first: the negatives. You get Dolby 5.1 sound with this edition, but you don't get a Dolby DTS track. However, for those who must have DTS sound there is a separate edition which provides it. Also, there are no alternate language tracks that will be of use to anyone (more on that in a minute). 
  But what this DVD does have is a great digital transfer, fantastic Dolby 5.1 sound-- and the best extras I've seen on any DVD in a long time.
  The Galaxy Quest DVD includes a making-of featurette, production notes, bios on the entire cast, theatrical trailers, TV spots, a novelty audio track (more on that in a minute), and an amusing Easter egg (hint: there is a reason why you must wait thirteen seconds to access the beginning menu). More importantly, you get a slew of deleted scenes that are as entertaining in themselves as some of the full feature's best moments-- a testament to the ability of this excellent ensemble cast.
  My personal favorite feature is the "novelty audio track" mentioned earlier. I'm still amazed that the producers had the guts to include it, but this movie is a comedy and including a Thermian audio track (Thermian is the odd squawking-noise language spoken by the aliens in the film), in place of something more conventional like Spanish or French, is very fitting.
  As for the movie-- chances are that if you know how to use your computer well enough to read this review, you've seen Galaxy Quest, but if you haven't, then you certainly should. On the one hand it's a jab at the Star Trek phenomenon; on the other hand it's a very clever movie carried to extreme effectiveness by a fantastic ensemble cast. Sigourney Weaver as a ditzy blonde, Alan Rickman with a big rubber thing on his head... and Tony Shalhoub's performance here-- it's all part of some sort of underlying genius that I can't quite put into words except to say that it's funny even when it isn't trying to be, and it's always good. This is one of the few films that I enjoy more each time I see it.
  Folks, this DVD is a must-own, and there aren't many of those. Get it now.