Bought this for my wife's b-day. The coolest thing (to us, personally)is that the very first segment is about Cesar dealing with a Chihuahua, of which we have 4! If you are a dog lover than this is just so much fun to watch. Although it is stated that this is not a "how to train your dogs" video, you can actually learn alot from this series. If you are open minded you can see how alot of what he says about the pet owners on his show can apply to you. Further more, this video is good to watch even if you do not own your own dog. Cesar explains alot about general people behavior which can apply if you visit people who have dogs. Your behaviour around dogs can have as much impact on them as their owner's.

There is the risk that some people might find the show too repetetive. In many of the cases that Cesar deals with, the advice and the lessons are very much the same. He constatnly talks about the notion of the pack leader, confident energy, consistancy and the dominant/submisive role between dog and owner. In almost every segment, Cesar begings by taking a walk with the dog in order to gain it's trust and establish his dominance over the animal. On the other hand this repetetiveness can speak towards Cesar's confidence in his techniques and HIS consistancy in using this knowlodge to deal with a many different issues. And there are just enough unique cases to keep the series fresh.

The other thing that people need to know about before watching this program is that Cesar regularly uses physical restraint, both with his hands and with leashes placed right at the base of the dogs' head in order to correct the animals. Although he re-asures that he is not causing physical pain to the dogs, these techniques may seem a bit on the disturbing side to those of us who love to baby our pets or are overly sensitive. I would urge anyone who may have issues with this sort of treatment to listen to how Cesar refers to his assertive, physical behaviour as an imitation of the dogs' own natural way of communicating and establishing dominance amongst themselves.

Overall, the program is a real treat. Especially when you consider that the ultimate goal for Cesar is to create more natural and balanced relationships between people and their dogs. There are many touching moments, such as the case where he rehabilitates a dog who was schedualed to be put to sleep because it was considered too agressive. The family was devestated because thier oldest son was extrememly attatched to the dog and vise versa. By the time Cesar was through with the dog, it was impossible to imagine that uthenasia was ever an option for the animal. The child was so greatful because he no longer had to worry about loosing his best friend.

I also bought the book, "Cesar's Way" along with this video. However, we have been having too much fun watching the DVD's that we have yet to read the book to give it a review.

Did I mention the awesome price on AMAZON? The book, the DVD and two day shipping cost me less then the DVD alone had I bought it at a retail store! As such I was able to get it shipped right on time for my wife's birthday. Thanks again AMAZON for the great service!