This is as close to an ideal movie as you're going to get. It's based on a fabulous book (Nicolas Pileggi's Wiseguy), has an excellent script, a good soundtrack and features outstanding performances from Ray Liotta, Robert De  Niro and Joe Pesci. 
I've heard Goodfellas compared to The Godfather over  and over again, but that comparison doesn't work for me. I actually found  it to be the anti-Godfather. Goodfellas is much more gritty and real. It  depicts the same violent, dangerous world that The Godfather did, but with  all the grandeur stripped away. The harshness of Goodfellas will almost rub  you raw at times, but in many ways its more rivetting than The Godfather  because of its almost complete lack of sentiment. This is definitely a  gripping, intense movie that will hold your attention for its entire 2 1/2  hrs. 
Though Goodfellas is categorized as an action movie and does  contain the requisite number of fights, explosions, etc., it's actually  much more finely nuanced and psychologically complex than what you'd  normally expect from this genre. 
Ray Liotta's performance as Henry Hill  is skillfully understated. You can really feel his ambivalence about the  life he's leading and the people in it and his transformation from a street  smart kid into the burned out, coked out loser he turns into is really  disturbing. Henry literally self-destructs.
Joe Pesci delivers an equally  powerful performance as sociopath Tommy DeVito. Tommy is so remorseless  that he casually discusses cooking while burying one of the unfortunate  victims of his lightning-quick temper. It's Tommy's non-chalance that makes  him so frightening. 
Robert De Niro is wonderful as well as Jimmy Conway,  a man whose charm and congeniality mask his icy heartedness. Jimmy makes it  so easy to like him and trust him, yet he betrays everyone who makes that  mistake. Beneath his seemingly sincere good will is pure self-interest.  Jimmy does what's good for Jimmy. Period. 
Part of what I thought made  this movie so interesting is the relationship between Henry, Tommy and  Jimmy and how they react to the same events. Jimmy never, ever loses his  cool or his surface lustre while the evil in Tommy feeds on itself and he  becomes more evil. Henry, however, degenerates and falls apart. This is  what makes Henry the only sympathetic character and the one whose  redemption you'll hope for. Will Henry be redeemed? You'll have to watch  Goodfellas and find out for yourself.