**WARNING: THIS IS SPOILER ~*~HEAVEN~*~!!!**

And it comes from a die-hard fan &lt;3 who had SO much hopes pinned on this short &lt;3 I'm also a writer, keep in mind!! :) and an artist [...]

so, after about a month or maybe a month and a half of drooling... and waiting (impatiently) it finally arrived.

And, thankfully the kids I babysit are into HtTYD, actually I owe it to them for being so HTTYD obsessed &lt;3

Anyhoo, yeah, I saw it four times!! Lol!

Book of Dragons is good. Not what I expected but as a writer, VERY inspiring since I can get ideas for dragons for it from the future &lt;3 *evil grin*

But... Gift of the Night Fury... oh! I don't really do romance stories. Oh sure I've watched the Jane Austen stories and really like the 2005 version of Pride and Prejudice, but normal romance... :puke: so I'm not used to watching a movie and having my heart... *flutter* from giddiness. And yes, i was so excited and happy and dreamy after watching Gift of the Night Fury that my heart *was* all fluttery :iconloveloveplz:

First of all, if I had fears that HTTYD2 could *possibly* be messed up, I have NO fears now. There is no way they'll ever mess it up. Let me explain:

:ahem: normally, shorts (Pixar or Dreamworks) are reserved for 'having fun' you do things in shorts that you don't do in the movie. It's area that's available for 'goofing off';'hot-rodding' and being 'corny'.

Yup. I am a Die-Hard-Hiccup-Fan and I did except some corniness from this short, but as a HTTYD Die Hard, I was eager to embrace it. I anticipated it with the rest of you, had my hopes up for it, and was fully prepared to take in the cornieness.

After all, Megamind's short 'The Button of Doom' was exactly that. OH yes, very fun, but exactly that. The Halloween shorts for Shrek and Monsters VS Aliens was like that. I've not seen either Shrek or Monsters VS Alines, but I over-heard the Halloween shorts when I was babysitting (hey, I see all these/hear kids movies while I'm working around the house) And those Halloween shorts were very much the norm. If you've seen Legend of the Bone Knapper, you know what I mean. Oh yes, it's a fantastic short, but definately doesn't have the magic of the movie. But it's HYSTERICAL

So, hey, I expected the norm for the HTTYD and was still giddy when I got to work and got to put it in to watch with Hawk and Wren :happybounce:

:omg: it actually had it's own emotional little mini-story. It counts as a real story... not just 'fluff'. Oh yes... it was... every bit as legit as the movie. It had magic!

Let me ~*~tell~*~ you all about it.

It's now winter at Berk... winter so cold it will frostbite your spleen and the Vikings are preparing to celebrate Snoggletog!! Oh yes! that magical season... ;) And of course, the village had even more to celebrate. The war is over... they have PETS!! Dragons!

And of course, what's HTTYD without Hiccup and Toothless begining every morning with Hiccup and Toothless going out for a little spin?

In the middle of their morning exercise, the Vikings back at home, preparing for Snoggletog, are disturbed and saddened when their dragons suddenly up and leave. And this flock of dragons intercept Hiccup and Toothless (knocking Hiccup's helmet off into the sea). Hiccup and Toothless head back home where he's surrounded by hysterical, upset, and sad Vikings-- all fraintic because their dragons are gone. Very hysterical 'what if the NEVER come back?!' :laughing: a few short months ago you would have been cheering *that* idea!

And Hiccup doesn't know what's happening. Only Toothless is remaining behind. As Tuffnut complains: 'your dragon can't go anywhere without you.' Meanwhile, Fishlegs is unusually happy. And Astrid, to bury their sadness is out to start new traditions, beginning (the next morning) with Yacknog... and yes, it really is THAT gross. Poor Snotlout :laughing:

Astrid, convinced Hiccup will like it, seeks him out at the forge, and gives him a cup of it while he explains why he was there all night: troubled by what Tuffnut said of Toothless' lack of freedom, he made a tail that can work so that Toothless can fly without Hiccup. Toothless will have more freedom to come and go as he pleases.

Next morning, Hiccup puts the new tailfin on the 'weirded out' Toothless-- it was hysterical cuz it reminded me so much of my cat Hermione (tears-- she's still sick :tears: so that also made it sad...) But when Toothless discovers that it let's him fly, he gets this frenzied, wild, scary look in his eye, turns round on Hiccup and then bolts to the sky right away.

Three days later finds Hiccup still without his dragon and his helmet. And Stoick wants him to find his lost helmet... but not without some encouragement. Oh yes, even Stoick has grown as a character. He now notices when Hiccup is troubled and calls him back and asks what is bothering him. He's grown. He cares... :thumbsup:

So while Hiccup is setting out (with a pair of oars on his shoulder) heading for a dingy to go find his helmet, he runs into Fishlegs who has an armload of fish in a basket... Fish looks guilty and Hiccup follows him ;)

Turns out, Fishlegs' dragon was locked up in a barn. Hiccup opens the door, Meatlug (the dragon) breaks loose and flies off with the bewildered Hiccup hanging on for dear life. Meanwhile, heartbroken Fish is calling out: 'WHAT ABOUT PRESENTS?!'

The other teens enter the barn, having seen the Gronckle and Hicucp leave...

Fishlegs: I just don't understand him!
Astrid: You don't understand HIM? You KIDNAPPED YOUR DRAGON! He flew away the instant he was loose!
Fishlegs: that makes it sound mean...
Ruffnut and Tuffnut *exploring hay*: hey guys--
Fishlegs: I'm actually 72% sure he wanted to stay
Tuffnut: YOU GUYS!
others: what?!
*they see what the twins found in the hay*
Fishlegs: barfed up stones/rocks/boulders!
Ruffnut: those aren't barfed up stones you idiot! Those are eggs!

OH yes... Meatlug is a girl... Poor Fishlegs :laughing:

And that's what Hiccup discovered, the Dragons all left to their nesting grounds. And Hiccup hasn't found any sign of Toothless, even though he has found every one else's dragons.

He brings back the adults and the *ahem* adoreable babies (oh they melt your heart :))

SO of course, Hiccup has saved the day again. Snogletog can be celebrated with dragons now... and BABY dragons to boot. Cuteness galore. WHY the DICKENS isn't there baby dragons around here?!

So, in the Hall, with everyone celebrating, we find Hiccup watching the others with their dragons and their baby dragons... and oh you feel so sorry for him. Toothless... gone!! :tears:

And the poor kid *DOES* tear up!! :icondragonweep: But Astrid is AMAZING-- she comes to Hiccup: 'Hiccup, I know it must be hard, seeing everyone with their dragons and you don't have yours. You did a wonderful thing, Hiccup, bringing everyone's dragons back.' She kisses him on the lips and then hugs him.

Hiccup is a very *SLIGHTLY* surprised at the hug, smiles because she's hugging him, and then sadness takes over. He hugs her tighter and whispers: 'Astrid, where did Toothless go?'
Astrid: 'I don't know...'

Oh yes... interuption! Door ajar! She looks up! And you know the rest. Toothless sticks in his devious looking face-- and Astrid, still hugging Hiccup pulls an even more devious look. She pulls back and says: 'oh wow! Sure glad I'm not you right now, Hiccup. You managed to bring back EVERYONE'S dragon except your own!'

Hiccup is rather irritated by the unfeeling statement, and while he's mumbling about it, Astrid grabs him, twists him around and shoves him forward. Toothless rushes forward and Hiccup runs up and HUGS him!! Oh gosh... was I in heaven. I melted! :iconloveloveplz: 'HE HUGGED HIM! THIS IS SO CUTE!! HE HUGGED HIM! HE HUGGED A DRAGON!! AAAHHHH!'

Hiccup pulls away: 'you bad BAD dragon! Don't you ever do that again! You scared me to death-- and... what is that in your mouth?'

:iconloveloveplz: and Toothless dumps a very very soggy wet helmet on Hiccup's head :iconblushplz:

Hiccup: 'oh, thanks... you found my helme-- YOU FOUND MY HELMET! THAT'S WHERE YOU WERE!' He smiles at Toothless, takes his face and says very sweetly and sincerely: 'Toothless, you're wonderful.'

And he hugs him again!! :iconloveloveplz: oooooooh!!

So, then there's the next morning, cuz it ain't over YET!! Hiccup gets up to ride Toothless, and there is Toothless... waiting, with saddle... and old tailfin. Fjord, I SO thought of you and your fanfic. You were SO right.

Toothless doesn't want his new tail and 'freedom'. He wants his mutual dependence/friendship/co-workmanship with Hiccup back. Hiccup was willing enough to ride Toothless with the new tailfin on, but, seeing that Hiccup doesn't get his subtle gestures about the saddle and Red Death Tailfin (I theorize it's red w/the white scull on it because Hiccup defeated (with Toothless) the Red Death... together) Toothless, looks at Hiccup, lifts up his tail and defiantly and deliberately destroys and flings the new tailfin off and away. Then he nudges the old saddle and tailfin again :heart: too precious. Too PRECIOUS for my HTTYD-LOVING-HEART!! :iconloveloveplz:

And it ends with a very beautiful touching scene. From the trailer, i thought it was a hot-rod scene. Nope. Will you believe it, it's sooo sentimental?

Hiccup: (narrates) Winter on Berk holds on with two hands, and doesn't let go. Our only guard against the cold are the ones we hold dear in our hearts/near our hearts (variation of that)...

Hiccup detaches the 'seat belt' that holds him to the saddle, disengages his prostetic foot from the stirrup and let's himself fall down head long paralell with Toothless in a smooth dive. Hiccup grins at Toothless, and Toothless smiles back and nudges Hiccup so that he spins around (slowly/gently-- it's a graceful lovely awesome movement) Hiccup sort of laughs in contented delight and then closes his eyes, smiling happily. That sweet friendship moment lasts a bit longer, then as Hiccup takes a hold of Toothless and places himself on the saddle once more as he begins narrorating:

'that winter I gave Toothless a pretty good gift' (Hiccup/Toothless pull up and Toothless' tail swipes the snow-clad trees bluring the screen in white) 'but he gave me an even better one'

Doesn't that just PROVE that HTTYD2 is going to be... AWESOME?! :) :iconloveloveplz: oh my!!

Animation was excelent!
There were some slightly new alterations of the soundtrack (heaven for me) not a lot, but it was heaven.
All in all... it was just... fantastic. I was surprised, delighted and... oooh! :D

Here's a clip of a soundtrack bit for Book of Dragons [...]

here's the *FIRST* flight in the movie clip Dreamworks itself put up on Youtube [...]

P.S. I also thought that Hiccup in his helmet and his flying gear was a nice touch. He has the best of both worlds-- he can respect and honour his father and still be best buds with Toothless-- to a point where Toothless 'rescues' the helmet for Hiccup. It was a great gesture. One that I'm sure that Dreamworks *VERY* much intended!! :happybounce: