I am puzzled at the conspiracy nuts boo-hooing that this documentary didn't give the conspiracy advocates a fair forum to proclaim their views.  A great number of individuals interviewed for this documentary WERE conspiracy advocates.  Where was Gerald Posner, where was Vicent Bugliosi, where was Jim Moore?  However Mark Lane, Josiah Thompson, Edward Epstein were all heard from again and again and again.  So the conspiracy nuts should be tickled pink.  But sadly their theories just hold up to the actual facts of this case.  Mark Lane boastfully applauds himself now that most Americans agree that there was a conspiracy, but most Americans believe in a conspiracy NOT because of the evidence in support of any such conspiracy but because they've been told there WAS a conspiracy now for forty-five years.  None of these conspiracy advocates lay out the evidence to support their claims--they have none.  They simply keep repeating the same tired, groundless claims.  Lane claims there were five shots, ignoring the fact that we don't have that many bullets, virtually NO ONE in Dealey Plaza agrees with the five-shot scenerio, and the bodies of Connally and Kennedy simply can't account for that many shots.  But Lane marches on.  Josiah Thompson is still holding on to the theory that four shots came from three different locations--TSBD, stockade fence, Dallas County Records Building, even though Connally COULDN'T have been struck from the Records building in the back since Kennedy was blocking him at the time and virtually NO Dealey Plaza witnesses agree that shots came from more than one location.  Additionally, if a shot came from the stockade fence why were all bullet fragments found in FRONT of the president and none behind?  The sad truth is that one can either believe in the facts or one can believe in a conspiracy.  However NO ONE can believe in both.  I choose to believe in the facts--that's why I believe Oswald acted alone.

While this DVD doesn't offer a great deal of new footage, it was neat to see the film footage of Stevenson getting clonked on the head with the placard in Dallas (I'd never seen that before) and it was hilarious seeing that poor Senator trying to make sense out of Jim Garrison's phone number connection between Oswald and Ruby.  It was good to see a documentary point out the silly nature of the Garrison charges and refuse to give him any credence.

Generally a fun watch.  But if you are a conspiracy nut, I'd stick with Robert Groden's work, you'll feel more at home in his universe.