i was initially drawn to it for three great film reasons - danny boyle, michelle yeoh, and cillian murphy (which goes without saying; he is amazing).  cliff curtis, hiroyuki sanada, and rose byrne were also wonderful - there is not one bad cast member in this ensemble.

while the initial story seemed extremely far-fetched to me, since our sun is not the type of star that would 'go out', i decided to suspend disbelief and simply watch the film.  the use of light and sound - both by boyle and the actors, particularly murphy and curtis - is what i found absolutely fascinating and is what kicks this movie past good into great for me.  the portrayal and use of the sun, over and over, draws you in until you cannot wait to see how the film ends.  boyle truly knew how to aim this movie to draw the viewer in by using the sun.  you start to feel empathy with the astronauts/scientists and you want them to win; by the time they need to ensure the jumpstart bomb is deployed, you feel as if you are part of the experience.

i was able to let go of facts and enjoy the film - and short of the premise on why they were attempting to jumpstart the sun (ala 'the core' - i saw some vague parallels on the base concept), a lot of the science fiction elements held true to me for our potential 50 years in the future.

i was particularly impressed with how boyle used visual techniques for the captain of icarus I to enhance how seven years of solitude, closer to the sun than any human has ever been, slowly drove him away from his primary mission (which is why it failed) and focused that captain's energies towards more metaphysical issues - which not only drives the plot to the end, but boyle manages to keep the film from becoming too violently graphic, which impressed me.  in that resepct, this movie is a very different experience from '28 days later', which i also liked, and proved to me that boyle knows what the script calls for.

i also highly recommend buying the DVD to watch it with the commentary on by dr. brian cox - he's great at explaining physics ideas simply without talking down to the listener, gave me a theoretical reason to believe the plot, and points out little touches that i didn't catch at first, but did after watching it again without the commentary.

you should buy this just for dr. cox's commentary - it made the film mean much more to me.