''The biggest fight of his life'' proclaims the movie posters' all too sincere tagline and from the warts and all performance on display - they weren't kidding. With a craftily self titled movie and a director who understands the hollywood action movie machine, Jean Claude Van Damme's new film is an exceptionally well made production with superb acting and stylish direction combined with an engaging story and possibly one of the most stripped down and honest performances of the last few years... who knew it would come from a belgian guy mostly known for his high kicks, a string of direct to video actioners and tabloid bating substance abuse?

To begin, I am a big Van Damme fan. I know its not all that clever to admit that, but I have followed him since I was a young teen becoming enchanted by his dynamic action movies that always seemed to combine high octane balletics with a real desire to make something different within the genre (hence his insistence on bringing hong kong directors to the US) - granted, some of his movies have been less than favourable (Derailed, The Order, Second In Command, etc) but he has still delivered solid genre flicks in the form of Hard Target, In Hell and AWOL. However, after seeing this - the new film ''JCVD'', his industry perception as a one note action star may well be turned on its head...

The story has JC playing himself. He's a down on his luck, over the hill action movie star with money problems, an agent who cannot get him a decent gig and a public child custody battle which isn't going in his favour. Retreating to his home of Brussels, he is embroiled in a post office robbery where he is held hostage by a gang of crooks who are at first astounded by him, then cannily plan how his name can help them with their scheme. JC's fame is used against him not only by the media, public and police outside but the bank robbers in their attempt to steal the money and make their escape...

Here the story breaks into many facets and we are introduced to JC's insecurities about the industry and the high profile life he lives. Using the media attention as a springboard for the movie - we get to learn about JC's career and his personal descent. A sequence where he talks directly to camera about his life is the highlight of the movie and makes for uncomfortable and tragic viewing, yet surprisingly life affirming. Its a testament to him that he can not only have this career as an international action star, but is also a deeply affecting actor who can produce the kind of performance that he does here. I am in the minority where I have always thought Van Damme was an effective actor (witness him in both Replicant and In Hell where he draws on his real darker sides), but here he really establishes he is quite the thespian and at times, you really do warm to him more so than in any of his other roles. I guess just being yourself is the best policy after all...

The rest of the movie is also top notch. From Mabrouk El Mechri's stylish direction which never borders on cynicism (which could have easily transpired) or fun poking to the funny and daring script that challenges Van Damme's public persona yet also celebrates him. The cast too, are excellent. François Damiens as cop Bruges is a standout and the performances of the couple who play JC's parents are superb and their concerns for their son seem real and ''realistic'' in terms of the way that they talk to him and discuss about him with others.

All in all, a real triumph. To be fair, if you are a standard Van Damme fan who loves his standard action output - then, you may be scratching your head thinking 'where the hell is the kickboxing' and euro villians? but, put that aside and watch what is most probably will be JC's finest hour. Playing himself. Go figure.