Razor: The Movie

Wow... Admiral Cain, what a shocker... you mean this woman was actually human once?  This was typical BSG and I was extremely happy with this intro movie for the next season chronicaling what happened on the Pegasus before and after Lee Adama's command. I would advise any Battlestar fan to get it.

This movie shows you that Admiral Cain was once a warm, and caring commander with a great sense of humor before the Cylons turned her into a crazed bloodthirsty warlord. I'm a Cain fan, before and after her change, I see her as a true war Admiral but the fans and I have already had that argument. This movie was very revealing, and after watching it I cannot imagine the series without it.

This is not a stand-alone movie, it is for collectors as a "what happened" for explanation on the Pegasus tragedy. The movie starts with Kendra Shaw, an ex-Captain of the Pegasus being interviewed by Lee Adama about some of the happenings on the Pegasus. We are treated to flashbacks of Admiral Cain as a softer dynamic, being a leader and mentor to her staff along with having meals full of laughter and love from her friends.  The cylons break the peace and shatter the hull of the Pegasus killing a quarter of the crew, and breaking the Admiral's heart and producing a ruthlessly cold weapon in Admiral Cain.

Razor: The DVD

Well after purchasing the DVD I must say that I am extemely happy for doing so. The extras that comes coupled with the movie includes some mini-film goodies of young Bill "Husker" Adama and also some footage of young Admiral Cain.  This gives a 100% full perspective into the make-up of killer Cain's varying angles and decisions and allows you to have a pure opinion on whether to love or hate her.

Battlestar Galactica is one of the only series who in such a short time has given us (the viewer) such a broad basis on the ins and outs of just about every single member of it's crew. To think that there have been long running Star Trek series where people with camera time remain a mystery all the way to it's cancelling (Enterprise did a good job). In any event, the series picks up in March with the finding of earth and Starbuck's coming out as the cylon harbinger (just a guess).

If you haven't bought this yet, and you are a fan, do yourself a favor and buy it.