I am a fan of Jim Carrey and have seen a lot of his movies, including Once Bitten(the first Carrey movie i saw), both Ace Venturas, The Mask, parts of Dumb and Dumber, Liar Liar, Me, Myself & Irene and this. Most people think this is one of Carrey's worst, if not his worst, movies...In this comedy hit, Carrey plays Chip Douglas, a psychotic cable installer who compares everything in his life to televison. His lush mother chose the bar over her son and left him to be raised by TV. As he becomes an adult, TV is all he knows. Among his other flaws, he considers a friend to be someone who spends all their time with one person because it was the way he saw on televison. Matthew Broderick plays alongside comedy legend Carrey as unsuspecting archcitect Steve Kovacs, who has recently broken up with his girlfriend. When Steve calls the cable company to ask about getting his cable hooked up, they are over an hour late. And when the "Cable Guy"(Carrey) shows up, Steve is taking a shower. Steve says he wants all the movie channels, for which he offers Douglas fifty dollars, which Douglas refuses. Instead, he offers to hook them up for free. As the movie progresses, Steve wishes he had given him the fifty dollars when he had the chance because now he is Chip's and Chip has no intention to let him go. Midway through the movie, Chip takes the attitude of a father who disapproves of something his son does. In other words, if Chip doesn't like it, Steve won't do it. This attitude becomes apparent in a scene when Chip leaves a message on Steve's answering machine to call him when he gets home. When Steve fails to do so, an angry Chip shows up at his apartment asking why he didn't. Late in the movie, Chip believes he will be a better friend to Steve if he can get him back together with his estranged girlfriend. But Chip's idea of doing this is to keep all of Steve's other friends away from him. When Steve tries to put Chip out of his mind, Chip responds by saying he can be Steve's best friend or his worst enemy...This movie is a perrfect example of just how important it is to have better famliy relationships. I gave this movie 4 stars out of 5, but if you're looking for a comedy that teaches lessons that are important to life, this is the one to get. Give it a rent and enjoy!!! I promise you, you will.