**Possible spoilers**

Scream is a franchise that started off very strong with an exciting, refreshing horror film that was genuinely startling the first time I viewed it. The two sequels that followed fell prey to the law of diminishing returns, however a decade had passed and so I was interested in seeing what fun thrills they can conjured up for this "reunion" of sorts. The result was... unstable. I understand and appreciate that these films are intended to be fun and aren't really supposed to be taken too seriously but let me just say that at one point during this movie, I turned to my viewing partner and asked, "was this a first draft written by a 19 year old"? Perhaps I was primed as soon as I saw how young the cast was but this entire film felt adolescent. When Ghostface wasn't on-screen I honestly didn't feel as though I was watching a Scream movie but rather a popular programme on ABC Family. While the original Scream was set in a high school, the actors were obviously older and so it felt like a more mature film. Here, however, they have cast some very young looking actors, all of whom are apparently quite unskilled at the art of acting. On the subject of acting, I must make another comment -- while the younger actors are still honing their craft, the older actors who gave - perhaps - the worst performances of their careers here have no excuse. The woeful dialogue did nothing to help the matters but the actors just did not care, most notable David Arquette. Now, admittedly, I am not incredibly familiar with Arquettes filmography but I HAVE seen him in "Ready To Rumble" and even in that film he was better than he was here. Just watch his performance. Pay attention to it as it is terrible.

So, why two stars? From the paragraph above and my title naming this movie as "unnecessary", it does seem as though I view this movie quite negatively. Well, to be fair, while the dialogue was embarrassing, the acting unworthy of soap operas and the CGI effects cheap looking... I had fun. There really wasn't a moment when I was bored. Despite the poor quality, I actually had a great experience watching this film. Being accompanied by good company always helps a bad movie, so I suppose that was part of it, but this ended up being one of the most unintentionally funny movies I have seen in a long time. The ending scene with [*spoilers*] the killer trying to injure herself in order to make it appear as though she was attacked as well was rewound on my copy probably about five times (honestly, what was Wes thinking when he made the killer run head first into a picture frame and have her drop like a sack of potatoes?). I will also say this; the ending could have been better. A little bit of unpredictability goes a long way. I would have been impressed had they allowed the killer to get away Scot-free. I would have felt rewarded as a viewer.

Good for one watch and no more. Don't click the "add to cart" button just yet - rent it and have fun but don't expect anything you didn't see a decade ago.