I need not go into artistic/technical and contextual details of "Grave of the Fireflies," as other reviewers have done ample and admirable jobs describing the film.

What the story of Seita and Setsuko represents is the plight of countless many children who are abandoned, forgotten, and eventually run over by the machines of politics and war that the adults operate. Very unfortunately, the story of Seita and Setsuko did not end in 1945. Their story has been and is being repeated every day, up to today. All it takes is a look at any country where there is an armed conflict going on.

It seems that, any time a story of this nature comes up, especially arising out of a so-called aggressor nation, some adults cannot resist whatever it is that drives the need to explain and ultimately justify the punishment that the victim(s) receives. Such people basically follow the same line: Their country/leaders were bad, and therefore this "punishment" is justified.

That's indeed an adult's logic. That may make sense to the grown-ups. But I ask: what does this adult's logic of punishing the bad have to do with children? What do they have to do with their country, their leaders, who are so-called the evil, the aggressors? The problem with this logic is that the children are not their country. They are not Japan, or whatever the country. They are not the leaders, politicians, nor generals. They are ultimately not even Japanese, American, or what-have-you, for nationalities as such are really an adult's creation, the grown-up's reality, just a concept. The children are not any of those concepts or definitions but themselves, who desire nothing else but to live and to be happy. And in so desiring, they threaten no one. How could we adults justify, then, harming them just because we perceive their country and leaders to be threatening? Are we not mixing something up here? Aren't we missing something big, and a result, hurting the innocent?

Seita and Setsuko are everywhere in the world, and every day, being run over by the adults' cold logic of justifying punishments, the idea that it is acceptable to run over the innocent in an effort to get the bad guys. In other words, collateral damages. As such, Seita and Setsuko are in Iraq. They are in Afghanistan. In Sudan. In Russia. In Bosnia. In Northern Ireland. In Sierra Leone. Even in the U.S. They are everywhere.

At the very end of "Grave of the Fireflies," Seita looks directly at the audience for a second. Sitting on a bench with Setsuko at his side, his eyes look "this way" at us. He then looks away, followed by the next and final shot of this moving film, in which we see the brother and sister sitting on a bench on a hill overlooking today's downtown Kobe.

I take Seita's glance as a pleading to us not only not to forget about them, but also not to be forgetful about the children just like they who are suffering today, in this very moment. Seita and Setsuko are on the bench looking over the modern-day Kobe because they represent today's Seitas and Setsukos who suffer. "We" are not gone. We who suffer are still here, in today's world. Could anyone, any adult, hear our voice, and do something for us?

I consider "Grave of the Fireflies" to be one of the most powerful indictments of war of all time, presented in this or any medium.