The story begins with a group of Mexican villagers being terrorized by an outlaw named Calvera, played with vigor by Eli Wallach. Calvera and his band of forty thieves steal precious food and supplies from the poor farmers, who barely have enough left to feed their families. To the credit of the film, these are not cardboard characters. They are gentle souls that are pushed to their limits and demonstrate moral courage and wisdom. The beleaguered villagers seek the help of a courageous drifter named Chris, competently played by Yul Brynner. After reluctantly accepting to help the farmers, seasoned gunslinger assembles a group of unemployed professional gunmen and adventurers. Each one of these men has their reasons for joining the fight against Calvera. However, the farmers can only pay each of their guardians the ridiculous sum of twenty-dollars, which as McQueen's character points out, "Would barely pay for my bullets". The small band of gunfighters exhibits bravery and commitment that galvanizes the village into a formidable fighting force. In a climatic fight sequence, the highly outnumbered seven pay a high price in blood to dispatch the evil Calvera. I have a soft spot in my heart for this film. Though not the greatest western ever made, John Sturges did a fine job Americanizing Akira Kurosawa's macho masterpiece, "The Seven Samurai". It was made in 1960 at the end of the studio system era and is not as gritty as later westerns from this tumultuous decade. Such films as "The Wild Bunch" and "A Fistful of Dollars" would more fully realize the character of the anti-hero. That being said, two of the film actors starring in this picture turned in prototype performances for the anti-hero. One was Steve McQueen as Vin, the empathetic gunslinger, who is as quick with an analogy as he is with his peacemaker. McQueen steals nearly every scene he is in with his quirky physical gestures and effortless acting. The other notable performance is from the late James Coburn, who plays the inscrutable loner Britt. His character is lightening fast with a pistol; but in a particularly entertaining sequence, he outdraws another aspiring gunslinger armed only with his switchblade knife. As an actor, Coburn had few lines of dialogue but made the most of them and filmgoers couldn't take their eyes off of him. Charles Bronson, who plays Bernardo O'Reilly, the crusty gunfighter with the soft underbelly, ably supports these two breakthrough performers. Finally, Elmer Berstein provides one of the best film soundtracks ever written. "The Magnificent Seven" is solid western film fare, where the line between good and evil is clearly defined and the heroes fight with altruistic purpose.