I am a sophomore in high school and recently watched "Joseph Campbell and the Power of Myth" as an introductory into mythology  for an honors literature class. As my instructor pushed in the tape, telling us students to  pay attention and listen closely, I fully expected to spend the next hour or so in a state of moderate monotony. I was pleasantly surprised, however, when this video turned out to be a enchanting interlude into philosophy.  
I have always had an avid interest in history and consequently history's myths. The connections that two cultures, located on separate ends of the world, can unknowingly make through mythology is an captivating concept worthy of scholarly interest. For instance, a constellation in our night sky known as the Seven Sisters is clearly referred to as a grouping of seven stars in many ancient cultures, even though only six are visible to the naked eye. 
The sheer magnitude of Campbell's comprehension and realization of the human conscious left me with the same aftertaste as J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and Edgar Allen Poe's The Raven. I felt as if I myself had undertaken the hero's path myself. I had transcended into a world of higher understanding through Campbell's words and theories and had come back altered in ways that I know will unquestionably mold my conscious and unconscious thoughts. I loved Campbell's view of the 'hero inside.' To me, one does not have to go out and do the classic bit of saving the world. Instead, a hero is found in the most unlikely of places. Whether it is Frodo Baggins, a small child battling AIDS in a world that could-if the prosperous realized their duty to humanity-at least prevent the disease from deteriorating, or a stranger on the street who drops a dollar in a homeless man's cup. The largest acts of heroism are not always the grandest or most recognized. 
Where would humanity be without the hero? The hero serves as a basis for behavior, defining the concept of bravery and self sacrifice. The deeds of a hero echo with mortal man's desire to rise above themselves and become that elusive 'more.'  I loved Campbell's quote at the beginning of the film. He stated, 'We are not alone, for all the heroes of the world have gone before us.' Eloquently said, Mr. Campbell, and the quintessence of truth, if I might say.  
Another phrase that has been floating around in my mind, refusing to leave, is the phrase 'easy religion, cheaply achieved.' The weight, the truth of that statement rings clear in my mind. Too often, in our world today, people adopt a faith, not truly knowing or bothering to discover the intricate complexity of humanity's concept of the divine. Religion cannot be a fad. It must be gained through an individual's innate pull to God, no matter the form that one desires to worship. 
Campbell brought up another point that I thought was highly intriguing. He stated that humanity was in fact the living, breathing consciousness of Ghia, the Earth. I had never thought of this concept before; I had always viewed the Earth as a separate entity abused by humanity. As always, though, Campbell's words had laid a new perspective to one of my long accepted concepts. 
In other words, I fully recommend the words and thoughts of Mr. Campbell to anyone who wishes to attain a greater understanding of the human conscious and the very concept of a hero. Though the video does not have a Hollywood style plot, it doesn't need it. Joseph Campbell has the ability to draw you in without the use of grandiose stunts.