May 2, 2002
Corny! Lord, is 'You Can't Take It With You' corny.
And dated.
I wont argue that many of this Capra classic's
sensibilities haven't slipped from vogue.  But kids,
this is an old movie starring a lot of famous old
actors that you might want to check out.  It's about
a family of eccentrics living together in a single
house and behaving like a truckload of Looney Tunes
characters let out on loan from the Warner Brothers
studios.  They don't fret money. They don't fret
mores. They don't fret the authorities. They don't
give a hoot about appearances.  In fact, they don't
do much of anything, other than what they feel like
doing, which is usually nothing that'll help anyone,
not even themselves.
I'm willing to admit that even as a fable it's not a
very practical, pragmatic, or mature message to impart
on a child.  But impart it on yours anyway.  Just about
everything else kids meet in this world will teach them
to be pragmatic, sensible, even calculating, quick
enough.
I think every ten-year old kid should see this movie
(and 'Mr. Smith Goes To Washington', and 'Meet John
Doe').  Parents, wrestle those young'uns away from
blowing things up on their video console, or from
watching things get blown up on television, and force
them to watch this flick.  If they're too jaded by age
ten, then show it to 'em when they're nine, or eight.
Heck, beam it at 'em 'in utero'.
The collective message of Frank Capra's films is
frequently misidentified by his critics as a belief that
human beings are all inherently good, and will do good
if given the chance.  Such critics like to point out how
dangerously naive that belief is (and they're right),
but Capra's message is more subtle than that: that any
community--a town, a country, or a family--can and
should be based around an unwavering doctrine of
unconditional compassion.  Once you have that, you're
protected from this oh-so pragmatic, sensible, and
calculating world.
SIDE NOTE: Jean Arthur was the greatest celluloid
combination of knockout sex appeal, smarts, and comic
ability ever, and young girls looking for better role
models than the narcissistic twits personified on film
these days by the likes of Cameron Diaz and Julie Roberts
should check her out in this and other Capra classics.