Coming out in the mid 80's there wasn't nearly as much to choose from when it came to movies that included lesbian characters. One that I had heard mentioned, and almost always dismissively, was The Children's Hour. The reason for that dismissal was the ending, which was required during the time period in which it was written and filmed, where the gay character must end up straight or dead. There was little leeway allowed for anything else released to mainstream America.
But that's not important. The Children's Hour is beautifully filmed in black and white, showcasing to our modern color sensitivities how wonderfully textured such film can be. The acting is top notch from everyone involved, with the performances by Hepburn and McLaine being almost flawless (if a little over the top in the dramatic scene near the end by McLaine). The movie is also a wonderful capture of a distinct period in time that was not so long ago, yet utterly different from current America, where women and girls always wore their gloves and men weren't seen without their jacket and tie.
While parts of the plot and the view of lesbians as unnatural offend modern liberal thinking, it's a dramatic and important demonstration of the fact that IS how most of society viewed such matters. To take offense and not pay attention to the layers and depth of the relationships between the characters is to do the movie a disservice. Too many stick to the surface of Hepburn's character being portrayed as the good straight one and McLaine's as being the pervert and in their outrage overlook the deep love that Hepburn's character has for her longtime best friend. 
Of course many also get caught up in the whole lesbian issue, which doesn't really even get expounded upon until the very end, and miss the real gist of the movie which surrounds the powerplays among children and how their unthinking actions and words can spill over and take on a life of their own, destroying people in the process. Children, through their lack of emotional maturity, are not able to see outside of themselves or their immediate selfish wants and needs and this movie is a very dramatic portrayal of that very thing.
If you enjoy good black and white cinema, if you enjoy movies that capture a time period, if you enjoy Hepburn and/or McLaine, if you enjoy a movie that portrays a deep and caring relationship between two women, I suggest not overlooking The Children's Hour.