The quality of Mr. Holland's Opus spreads evenly throughout its plot, its message, and its marvelous appreciation of music and the arts.  In fact, this movie delivers both definition and demonstration of music appreciation  as a whole, absent of selective bias.  Devoid of senseless killings,  violence, or notable language, Opus is a family movie without the corny  overtones.  For many it's a tearjerker.
But Mr. Holland's Opus unfolds an  issue.  It is a simple plea for an increase in music appreciation among  society--particularly our young people.  Mr. Holland's career is pressured  more and more by the gradual, yet perpetual governmental cuts in school  funding for the arts amid the US.  In sharp contrast, the movie makes it  clear that support for the sports programs in public schools remain firm  and solid.  Careful to avoid cursing this predicament or hurling insults  toward society, this message is rather Hollywood's way of calmly saying,  "Take a look," using the common life of an otherwise forgotten  music teacher.  
The central beauty of the movie is in the character of  Mr. Holland himself.  He is an ardent yet sensible lover of music.  The  viewer will find no arrogance or snootiness in Mr. Holland.  It's not his  style.  Instead, Holland's concern for the progressive loss of interest in  the arts is voiced simply, directly, and peacefully.  
The movie delivers  a powerful message through ordeals within his family.  Struggling with the  hardships of common fate (and some not so common), Holland learns new  depths of love and companionship from both his wife and son.  He is a man  of emotions like anyone else.  He looses his temper on occasions.  But Mr.  Holland is always in control of himself.  He deals with pressures to the  best of his ability as they occur. 
Mr. Holland is a believable person.  The viewer is free to place him into society with the rest of the world and  to walk in his shoes for a spell.  A superb job from the entire cast of  characters, the journey is emotionally rewarding.