I just wanted to write a short review from my little world.

I saw this movie when it came out and laughed my butt off in the theatre.  I bought the poster from the theatre, too... heh.  I understand that the roles were typical for Jack Black & Michael Cera, but I haven't seen either one of them in many movies, so I can't say if this is true.  Standing by itself, though, without having seen (many if any) other performances, the movie is a solid YES in my book.

I am a massive Harold Ramis fan - more of his philosophy than his movies - but the movies, certainly a close second.  If I'm having a "what's the point?" kind of day, I just love to pop in a Harold Ramis commentary to listen to while I'm puttering around ... they're the BEST for making me feel so much better - he's just that inspiring.  When I found out that a new Harold Ramis movie was coming out, I was perhaps overly excited for it - and especially in anticipating the DVD commentary.  In a previous movie, "Bedazzled," there were two commentary tracks, which was fabulous.  I wish they'd done that for this movie.  They have Harold Ramis, Jack Black, and Michael Cera together in this one.  The actors are really on a different wavelength from the director, and the result was an extremely disappointing commentary.  If I remember correctly, it went something like this for the duration of the movie:

Michael Cera: Hahaha! [Repeats line] That was a funny line.
Jack Black: Oh, yeah!  Funny.  [Repeats line]
Harold Ramis:  ... Heh heh heh.
Jack Black: Oh boy!  Funny!  Oh... I made up some other jokes like [alt joke]
Michael Cera:  Hehehe.  That was hard.  That was uncomfortable.  [Repeats more lines]
Harold Ramis: ... Yeah, you were funny there.

In parts of the movie, it was honestly hard to tell the difference between the actual soundtrack and the commentary - it was pretty much the same, with a few Harold Ramis giggles thrown in.  All I came away with was that they used the same cougar that was in Talladega Nights, and it was kinda lazy.

It's enough to make you cry.