For the first 20 minutes or so, one has the vague impression that this is a low budget production, since the film comprises mainly slow pans of maps and other paper documents, as well as interviews with various scholars. Eventually, one becomes aware of the fine landscape photography. For example, the cinematographer takes care to wait for late evening (or early morning), when the oblique angle of the sunshine brings contrast and color to the gentle ripples on the Missouri River. The fine views of the Bitterroot Mountains bring to mind the landscape photography of Art Wolfe, second in greatness only to David Meunsch, as far as color landscape photography is concerned. The bluegrass music is in-character, and provides a fetching accompaniment to the narration and photography. From the credits, the bluegrass music seems to have been specially performed for this video. The only actors are performers in silhouette. Would it have added too much to the budget to provide some live action of Sacagawea and her fellow-voyagers??? Is there any shortage of good actors at the many colleges and community theaters in Missouri?  I would think not.  The video production takes two cassettes. The drama and suspense tend to pick up a bit in the second video cassette, and then one almost gains the mental impression of watching a live-action drama, apparently because of the carefully crafted monologue. What one learns from the film is: ( 1 ) The amazing coincidence of Sacagawea meeting her long-lost brother; ( 2 ) The surprise of the explorers in discovering the treeless great plains; ( 3 ) Lewis' mental problems; and ( 4 ) The near-encounters with Spanish soldiers. What is missing in the narration is a few minutes of commentary on the political milieu of the time, e.g., the relations between the U.S.A., Spain, France, and England. How was it that this vast land somehow "belonged" to France in the first place???  A drawback of the production is that I cannot fathom any reason to watch this production a second time. It is too bad that the explorations of Lewis and Clark did not take them along the Awaawapuhi trail or the Waimea Canyon of Kauai, since the scenery along the Missouri River is noted for its dullness. If they had taken this sort of detour, then I'd want to watch this video repeatedly. Perhaps the cinematographer could have provided us with views of the glorious sea stacks found in the vicinity of the mouth of the Columbia River in Oregon.  Some of these sea stacks constitute some of the most glorious geological features in all North America. Sea stacks do appear in the background of the video, in a panoramic view taken in between some trees, but what is missing is a closeup.  Another thing missing is Multnomah Falls, visible from the Columbia River.  So many opportunities missed in what has turned out to be a very bland film, at least from the visual standpoint.