I have watched this movie at least a million times,and I still think it's perfect.  Maybe that's one of the great things about Bollywood.  There's literally something for everybody in just about every movie, but none more so than this one.

If you are new to Bollywood, you must watch the Holy Trinity, in the following order, and I promise you will be hooked for life.  First, DDLJ, or Diwale Dulhania de la Jayenge, or whatever it is.  It is the most popular film in the history of the world, and that's a fact.  That one stars the same couple as in this film, and there is absolutely no point ever discussing on-screen chemistry after you have seen Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol together.  They are--why mince words? perfect.  Then you must see Kuch Kuch Hota Hai.  You will catch some cool references to DDLJ, and you will see a sexier and more mature Kajol, and SRK is quite different than in DDLJ--he is thinner, more mature, and much handsomer, though he is pretty insufferable in the first part of the movie.

That's another point I'd like to make about Bollywood movies for you non-Desi newcomers to the fold.  Each movie is really two movies:  there is the fluff in the first half, and then things really get going in the second half.  Remember this when you are ready to pull the plug halfway through the first half.  Fast forward through the unbearable parts but stay with it.  Things are going to get better. Much. Much. Better.

Anyway, turning to the movie at hand, KKKG:  Having watched the previous two SRK-Kads starrers, you can now fully appreciate the musical references to KKHH and even DDLJ.  But that's just one of the treats in store for you.  This movie is indescribably rich and beautiful on so many levels.  Don't miss it.  It makes a great family entertainment, too--nothing anyone could find remotely objectionable.  Everyone I've forced to watch it has without fail become hooked for life just like I am.  Like the greatest works of art, you will be changed forever after you see it.  Before I discovered these three films, I pretty much hated movies, but now I can honestly say K3G is my favorite movie of all time!