Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer(2007)

Official Site: [...]

Dir: Jon Knautz

Perf: Robert Englund, Trevor Matthews, Rachel Skarsten, and David Fox

I loved this movie. I cannot wait to buy it so I can listen to the commentary. After doing a bit of research, I found that Knautz and Matthews started their own production company called Brookstreet Pictures. This is their first feature film, and I can't wait to see the sequel, Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer II(2010), as well as The Shrine(2010), starring Matthews and Aaron Ashmore (also directed by Knautz).

After reading the title, I thought it would be a horror spoof. I expected something between Buffy The Vampire Slayer(1992) and Shawn Of The Dead(2004). Much to my delight, I found it to be right on target, taking itself just seriously enough to make the horror, comedy and action work. Think early John Carpenter meets early Sam Raimi.

The character of Jack Brooks is a plumber, orphaned as a child by a monstrous troll. He has an anger management problem and a tool belt full of plumbing supplies. Monsters beware! Matthews is amazing. His humor and drama were both nicely executed. Not to mention the action. He can really hold his own with a pipe, an axe and some duct tape!

The make up and monster suits were really well done. Far better than I have seen in so many other films with much higher budgets. The gore was pretty top notch. I had to look away a couple times. There was an ample amount of blood/goop when monsters were dispatched. This is also where I must compliment the continuity/script supervisor. After working as a script supervisor, I know the difficulties involved with keeping bloody wardrobe and make-up in check. Not once in the course of this film did I catch a continuity error. This also speaks volumes about the editing. Kudos to Katharine Jane Reid (script supervisor) and Matthew Brulotte (editor).

And to top it all off, the fight choreography was either exceptionally well planned, or completely spontaneous actions of a couple of guys just beating the tar out of each other. I love that the character is not superheroesque. He scraps with evil, and has the bruises to prove it.

Trivia (from IMDb): Robert Englund agreed to the film after seeing the short film Still Life by the Brookstreet Pictures boys.

******SPOILER******
Robert Englund is a major player in the film. I really didn't expect this. Normally, when a tiny independent film scores a major name, it is a cameo role. That cameo is usually exploited in the trailer to increase the attraction of the film. Not in this case! Mr. Englund has a nice chunk of screen time before he turns into a toothy version of Jaba The Hutt's little brother. He plays a very sweet role before the horror begins. I'm so used to his creepy portrayals in films like Urban Legends(1998) where he plays a potential killer in a mystery, or (of course) the Nightmare On Elmstreet Franchise(1984-2004). (Jackie Earle Haley is set to take on the role of Fred Krueger in the 2010 Remake of the 1984 original.)