I have been watching Supernatural since the show started in 2005.  Its the only show on televison of its kind and it has become my all time favorite.  Supernatural blends together seamlessly the sci-fi, horror genre with healthy amounts of drama and sarcastic comedy weaved in thats is very unique.  The action is in my opinion feature film quality and the monsters this season are to die for ranging from djinns, to shape-shifters, vampires, faires, dragons, demons and the Mother of All baddies, Eve from Purgatory.  We are still waiting to see how the Mother of All mystery continues to unfold, but so far its been wild.

In season six you will get to see Sam's dramatic struggle over his very soul while dealing with the introduction of the Campbell family.  Dean's couragous attempts to help his brother while dealing with his own family drama with Lisa and Ben.  The first episode directed by Jensen Ackles all about great supporting character Bobby Singer called Weekend at Bobbys.  Along with all that you'll get to see Sexy Sammy shirtless in Third Man, Dean getting abducted by fairies and turned into a vampire, the first Old West episode where Winchesters finally meet Samuel Colt the maker of the very special Colt gun the boys used, and a super hilarious meta episode where Sam and Dean enter the real world of Jared, Jensen and Misha the actors behind the scenes of this great drama.

Yet, still at its core continues to be the relationship between Sam and Dean, especially in episodes like the premiere Exile on Main Street or Like A Virgin.  That is what you will find the most thrilling is after all these two boys have been through over the years the Winchester brothers chemistry is undeniable and unbreakable.  It will have you begging for more.  I definitely want to see a Season 7.

The brothers are modern day cowboys with stunning good looks and even better acting talent to boot especially when you add in the incomparable Jim Beaver as the loveable grumpy Bobby Singer and the endearing Misha Collins  as the confused angel Castiel you have a team free will that can't be stop.  Not to mention they ride around in the coolest Metallicar on the road a black 1967 Chevy Impala it would make the General Lee jealous lol.  Overall, Supernatural Season 6 is Back In the Saddle Again with enough crazy angst ridden adventures to keep you guessing where the show will go next.