This movie isn't bad, I just didn't like it. Charlie Kaufman's screenplay left me without conviction to one plotline. The story behind the lead character's rise to fame and wealth seemed all based on hard, verifiable facts, while the angle that highlighted the connection with the international underworld was spotty, difficult to follow, and unbelieveable (in a not good way).
To focus on each, The portrayal of his development of his career as a television producer and love affair with Penny, played by Drew Barrymore, is potent and inspiring. You see a man with dreams, and you see his dreams come into fruition despite his self-loathing nature. Because of the interference of the assassin plotline, the interesting story of his absurd rise to fame is consistently cut short. I can see the potential for an interpretation of this storyline conflict as a metaphor of Barris' 2 lives, both half-finished, constantly interrupting and interfering with the other. Nonetheless, it detracts from the quality of the film, in terms of entertainment value. 
The CIA operative side of the story is equally half-finished, and ends up woefully dominating the plot by the end of the film. What starts as a movie about a TV producer with a nagging affiliation with the shady underbelly of US politics turns into a film about a lost soul who buries the invasive regrets of his underworld lifestyle in his self-destructive behavior. By the end, the CIA side of the story takes near-total precedence, and is ultimately pervasive to the overall storyline. Out of nowhere comes a trite spur of a subplot where the two highlighted agents doublecross one another and eventually end each others' careers in espionage. The plot never officially turns tables and works toward one goal versus the other, though. The theme is that Barris can't put his past behind him until the double agent is found and killed, but it's never enunciated with sufficient emphasis to redirect the whole narrative to that end. What emerges is a film where one scene ends and the next starts, with nary a reference to connect the two.
Where this film truly loses its value is in the 'gimme' scene where he's wandering through the backstage area of the Gong Show studio, seeing larger-than-life portrayals of his own subconscious, done up in backdrop scenery paintings. I would bet a finger that this was added to the film after an initial screening to an audience who found the inklings of Barris' inner demons nonconvincingly dramatized in the earlier scenes. What emerged was the same kind of give-away that happened at the end of &lt;i>Being John Malkovich&lt;/i> where the tangled threads of the actor's subconsciousness are spilled onto the screen for anyone who didn't catch these more subtly portrayed points throughout the preceeding portions of the film. This is clearly a mechanism to open up the storyline to the regretfully substantial portion of the general audience without sufficient skills in dramatic interpretation to assemble and decipher the concepts by their own power. Shame on Kaufman, who, in the balance of the two films and annoyingly explicitly in &lt;i>Adaptation&lt;/i>, seems to shun this mainstay of the Hollywood boilerplate offering.
If you stay to read the credits, you'll notice that this film's contributors are a who's who of Hollywood magnates. The way the film feels makes me think that a bunch of people saw what seemed like a ball to write, stage, produce, and profit from, but what they came up with was a neglectible story that never really communicates anything substantial about Barris, the TV industry, the CIA, the politics of the Cold War, or love and regret. This would have been a much better production with a more dedicated staff who paid attention to the quality of the end product rather than nailing each component scene, which at least is something that I can credit the film for doing unfailingly.