I've been watching this fascinating series from the start, and have loved it totally.  There is something so incredibly fascinating about seeing how these kids turned (and will turn) out. The most amazing thing about it, for me, is that every single one of them became a decent, responsible, thoughtful human being, and that has nothing to do with class or economics, as the film proves.  I am so touched at their incredible idealism, their faith, their intelligence, and their grace.  Each one of them still has a beautiful, beaming countenance, except, of course, for Neil.  That said, it is Neil whom I really connect with.  He was perhaps, in my mind, the most beautiful of the children, with an almost otherworldly innocence about him that is sublime.
Watching this installment, I  wished I could go back in time and protect him from the slings and arrows he would face as an adult.  He turned out to be the most troubled of the group, and I can't help thinking that he was almost "too good for this world," as they say, a quality that showed up early.  Still, what he has done with his life at this time is remarkable; he is giving both social and spiritual service to others, and what else is there, really, for a person to be able to say "I gave my best"?  He has the mind of a philosopher, and I wonder if he writes poetry. I love his beautiful, suffering face.  He's actually very handsome, and I wish he would find a wonderful woman who could make his life a little less lonely, as have the other males in the series.  All in all, it's an extremely loveable group of people.  I can't wait to visit with them again, but I have a bit of guilt about that, because some of them indicated that the filming is a huge intrusion on their privacy - their lives - and, as one of them said, "It opens up a can of worms every seven years " (or something like that, old wounds, etc.).  I guess I would like to say "Thank you!" to each of them, for giving us a glimpse into their lives, which, in a sense, is a glimpse into ours.  And also - thank you for being good role models.  This film teaches one what it means to grow up and lead a good life.  Hugs to one and all, and thanks to Michael Apted, who made a beautiful series.