Little Children is the latest example of movies that demonize men. The overall theme of the movie is castration, symbolically and literally.
Parallel stories which later merge are developed involving the various characters.
Much discussion among some suburban housewives is about castrating a sexual offender who has exposed himself to a child, has served his time and is released back into the community. He looks like what he is - the cartoon-like cliche classic pervert.The man is released into the custody of his aging mother, who dotes on him as though he were a child, and which attention is probably what drove him to commit his offence in the first place, because emotionally he has never progressed beyond childhood and imagines himself and the objects of his affection as playmates. Even the date that he's forced into by his mother is a train-wreck - he can't stop looking at kids, and he ends up disgusting his date by his gross behaviour. This man visits the local swimming pool on a busy summer day, and the characterization of him as the monster in the pool, rather like the shark in 'Jaws', and the subsequent clearing of the pool by the panic-stricken parents, is a masterpiece of dark humour.
The second set of characters is the briefcase totin' successful hard working wife and her stay-at-home emasculated child-like husband who pretends to be studying for his bar exams but really doesn't want to. He has to be constantly prodded to study, as someone would prod a child to do his homework. He later meets and forms a buddy relationship with an ex-cop who introduces him to a pick-up weekly football game that allows him to re-assert his long-lost masculinity. This husband is the object of interest of the previously mentioned local housewives in his visits to a local park, where he takes his little boy for his daily outing, and one of the housewives accepts a dare to talk to him and get his phone number. The two continue to meet in the park while ostensibly taking their children on their daily outing. A humorous scene takes place when the daughter of the mother wants to go to the bathroom; the mother tells her to just 'pee in the pool', but the child insists on going to the bathroom, thereby demonstrating that this young child is more socially mature than her mother. Eventually, a child-like extra-marital romance develops between the man and the woman, and an affair follows. Later, they agree to 'run away from home'.
The woman who is the object of the husband's affection is married to a hard-working marketing guy who seems to be hooked on an internet porn site to the degree that he doesn't seem to have any time for his wife - he's so involved in his on-line peep-show relationship. This provides the motivation for the wife to seek companionship elsewhere, after she discovers him in a rather embarrassing situation while he is exploring his on-line relationship to the fullest extent possible.
The final major character is the ex-cop who becomes totally obsessed with the perv who has been released into the community. The reason he's an ex-cop is because he over-reacted and unneccessarily killed an unarmed young man in the line of duty. This ex-cop is another cartoon characterization of a red-neck, brutish, vulgar, gun-toting suburbanite tough guy that we all love to hate, especially because he's probably just the way all men would be if they haven't been emasculated. He's the schoolyard bully grown up.
In the end, there's tragedy, the ex-cop makes peace with the perv, everone grows up a little, and life goes on.
Four stars just because it's so absorbing.