I will admit from the onset that I am a long time Marvel fan.  In fact, the very first Marvel comic that I have ever read contained a Man-Thing short story within its pages.  I was always fascinated by the Man-Thing since he is so very different from most of the characters within the Marvel Universe.  He doesn't speak and can hardly think so the stories always revolved around the characters who came in contact with him.  He is a throwback to the classic monsters that were popular in comics and movies in the 40's and 50's.

I didn't understand why Marvel would make this character into a movie since only comic fans would have the slightest idea of who  he was.  But after further thought, I felt that it wasn't such a bad move for Marvel after all.  I figured that it would tell a story of Ted Sallis, a brilliant scientist who had developed a "Super Soldier" serum for the US Government, though it had not yet been properly tested.  Then a tragedy would occur when Sallis would have to heroically inject himself with the serum to avoid it from landing in the wrong hands.  Maybe the material could have been updated to be a terrorist cell that was chasing the serum or something.  Sallis would wind up running into the swamp where he collapses into the muck and a horrific metamorphosis would somehow occur through the magic of special effects.  The rest would be left to Hollywood screen writers to think of terrifying ways that these meanies would "burn at the Man-Thing's touch."

This is in fact an interesting concept for a mediocre budget horror film.  I mean, I have seen movies made on even weaker plot lines and have even enjoyed some of them (eg. Kill Bill).  I thought that there was no way that Marvel would deviate from this solid established story line since they have had great success with their recent films when they did not deviate from the source material.  The lesson learned was to be true to the characters and the fan base will show.  Somehow they forgot this lesson.  They changed Ted Sallis from scientist to tribal chief who ditched his tribe for some forgettable reason.  And for some even more obscure reason, he becomes inhabited by the spirits of the swamp and becomes this evil muck monster that goes around brutally killing everyone who enters his swamp.  Not a very mentally stimulating concept, to say the least.  The Man-Thing itself was well designed and was pretty cool looking when he appears fully, which takes place a little after the first hour and ten minutes of the film (not the last 10 minutes like some have said).  Though I agree he should have been shown a lot more since he is the best thing in this movie.

I am not going to rip this movie since it was a Sci Fi channel TV release.  I'll leave that to the other reviewers.  If you watch this movie with lowered expectations, you will find a somewhat decent horror film.  I mean there was a lot of blood and guts for a good Friday nights fill if you are into the slasher movie thing.  Don't look here to find the classic Marvel character Ted Sallis who tragically becomes this mindless monster who senses and attacks fear and anger but is harmless to the meek and fearless.

Bottom line: Two stars for the Man-Thing creature itself and a half star for the film.  But since Amazon does not allow for half stars, I will leave it at two.