Definitely over praised by the "experts". Yes, there are many nice touches in the dialogue, and I personally find interesting what one critic called "elliptical" dialogue. I can accept the idea that over 20 years the character of Catherine changes, that she becomes more manic, capricious, and self-centered. But I'm never really convinced of her love, nor of her possessiveness. Hence, the final denouement is never convincing. The long story told by Jim about the poet who fights in WWII but "fights" his own personal battle as well does not serve the plot at all, and is entirely unconvincing of the point concerning personal battles. The movie would have been stronger without that sequence.

Another example of the flawed nature of the film is the scene where Catharine and Jim head to the train station. The narrator informs us Jim couldn't leave because the train schedule had undergone a seasonal change. That leads to their hotel stay, which leads to pregnancy. That is one of several silly little artifices that pop up throughout the film. The sex could have occurred at their home without the introduction of an extra caprice of fate, and been better for it. Similarly, Jim's wife seems too much like one of those dispensible characters, waiting forever with hat in hand, always available for sex, marriage, etc. Jim never is hurried by her availability to other men to make a decision between the two. For such a beautiful woman, this seems ridiculous in any era.

I did like the sequence in the restaurant with the "locomotive-smoking" woman talking incessantly of her multiple affairs as Jim is repeatedly interrupted. That scene was brilliant - I think the best in the film.

Having said that, the DVD package is absolutely excellent. Not merely loaded with extras, but with interesting extras that shed light on so many of the people involved with the process that led to the film. We even learn of the people on whom the story is loosely based. This is a package well worth buying, more for the extras than for the movie itself. I would give the movie 3.5 stars, and the DVD 5 stars.