I haven't seen Tartovsky's version...but i'm definitely gonna see it...have to compare it with this one, because this one is trully a masterpiece.  Like most of the viewers already mentioned, this is not one of those hollywood 'easy watching', 'fast pacing' kind of science fiction movie.  It's very 'European' kind in a sense that it really subtle, moderately slow in tempo.  You need to be very attentive.  If you are in one of those mood where you feel like sleepin, avoid this movie.  But if your are in a fresh state where you feel like watching something that has something more underneath it, well here it is.
The whole mood of the film is very haunting, sad and beautifull.  Beautifull soft colored photography dominate the whole film...it's a very photographic film.  And the colour...i did mention soft colour.  We see many pastel blue abort the ship, soft yellow glow from a room light and a mixture of light soft blue and red for the colour of the surface of Solaris.  It was heigtened with the soundtrack that gives an eerie empty and sad feeling, yet sometimes elevating.  This whole combination, the music, the photography, the colours, create a total solemn, romantic and haunting situation.  There are no blasting situation in the movie...just, thougthfull peacefull situation and feeling.
Soderbergh way of story telling is good if not considered to be complicated...the story move back and forth between flash back and the present situation, whereby the character tries to remember what had happened (especially the character Rhea from the solaris who fought hard to remember who she is, or what she is.  The camera keep moving back and forth between her close up expression or eyes and the event that had happened on Earth).
A very serious movie indeed.  It did not try to be a sci-fi with argumentative prediction on the future...it's more of story where a person is given a chance to heal what he has done, although he may not do it with his real wife.  Just a simple matter of a peacefull feeling, a way to terminate guilty feeling.  This somehow remind me of Vertigo, who have a very close theme, where James Stewart is in love with a woman who bore a strong physical resemblance of her previous loved ones.  Alhtough he realize she is a different woman, he doesn't care, he even asked her to wear the same dress.  True love or just a mere psychotic obsession ?  At the end, is a matter of making a choice to make peace to yourself, hallucinating or not.  So is Solaris...a deep thought full film.  Not as thoughtfull as the original novel from Stanislaw Lem i admit...but still, thoughtfull.
Watch it...and it stay's in your mind.