What can I say about Steve Murray and his work... I have been a Reiki practitioner for over a decade, and I can tell you that Steve's books and DVDs are among my most treasured possessions on my book case. I see his work benefiting both existing Reiki practitioners and those just looking to get started.

Steve's books are like GOLD, as they are actually more comprehensive than the materials provided by most Reiki masters to their students. I am sure that many Reiki Masters must be upset with Steve, as he divulges information that most Reiki Masters believe to be secret, including all the symbols up to Master Level, and the attunement processes. Most Reiki books do not include this information, and have been very disappointing to me.

After buying his first book, I decided, after reading the reviews, I needed to own the others. I currently have all 5 Reiki guides and the Reiki myths book. And, of course, the package would not be complete without the DVDs.

I would say, though, that although the first book is excellent, it is not enough for me. I needed the Visual of the DVDs to bring it all home. So, I don't think that you can buy a single book, read it, and walk away a Reiki Master. Each of his books and DVDs, however, complements the others. With the combination of the Books, DVDs, studying and practice, you CAN BECOME A REIKI MASTER.

What's awesome about the DVDs is that you can take the attunements over and over again. As someone who was attuned in person by a Reiki Master over a Decade ago, I can attest to the DVD attunements as being every bit as effective as in person.

My only criticism is that the whole package should be sold as a complete set, as once you get started, you will want the whole set anyway. However, I guess that most will not want to plunk down that money (even though it is completely reasonable in the scheme of things) without first experiencing the quality of it with the first book.

If you are interested in Reiki, and don't want to waste your time and money with disappointments, just get this material, and you will not regret it.