...to be in the spotlight." The desire to be famous even at the expense of one's career is the focus of Morris' fascinating portrayal of Fred Leuchter, who once had the reputation of being one of the United States' leading designers of execution equipment. But the masterstroke of the film is in its message of how overconfidence in one's abilities can lead to self-ruin, a timeless message which has been repeated throughout literature for centuries. But Morris' take on this moral lesson is unique, unusually thought-provoking and at times downright disturbing.
The film does begin on a somewhat "lighter" note, however. For the first thirty minutes, we are invited into the mind of Leuchter who explains in great detail the formation and zenith of his career as an "execution specialist." His father worked as a prison superintendent in a Massachusetts correction facility and as a result of what he told his son concerning the prevailing conditions of the execution equipment used there, Leuchter was inspired to do something about it. He decided that it would be his mission in life to make sure that execution equipment would be designed so that the prisoner being executed would be put to death as quickly as possible and with no physical harm being done to those who were required to witness the execution. 
It was a noble profession to pursue, despite the morbidness of it, and therefore quickly built a fine reputation throughout the country, with prison officials contacting him on a regular basis with requests for new electric chairs built to his standard. Strangely, some of these officials felt he also had the ability to construct lethal injection machines as well, despite his lack of knowledge. Morris uses subtle points like this to lead us into the second part of the film: "The Trial of Ernst Zundel."
From this moment on the film enters the realm of the surreal. "Surreal" is a term which is way overused these days by many writers, but I feel it is entirely appropiate here due to the bizzare contradictions that are raised. Zundel's historical revisionist paper entitled "Did Six Million Really Die?" landed him in trouble with the Canadian government. He contacted Leuchter based on his reputation as an execution specialist and Leuchter agreed to testify in defense of what he wrote. Why? Leuchter states that it was Zundel's right to write and publish whatever he wished, that is, if you believe in free speech. That's a fair argument, but knowing Zundel's affiliation leads to some unsettling conclusions about Leuchter. To make matters worse, Leuchter undertakes his own investigation of three of the death camps in Poland. Ignoring the immense archival evidence available at the local libraries, Leuchter concludes, based on his own meticulous measurements and concrete samples of the infrastructure that there was no way that the Holocaust could have happened, because he felt that the structures simply weren't designed to kill people. If so, then what were they? Leuchter offers no explanation for this. Instead, he publishes his findings and is almost immediately taken in by Neo-Nazi organizations on a whirlwind tour throughout America and Europe. 
Morris seems to ask us one question in particular over and over again throughout the film: Which is more important, free speech, even if it is mired in ignorance and denial, or a "responsibility to the truth", which is what Leuchter ironically states in one of his speeches. His answer seems to be: You decide.