The premise is simple enough: a man returns home to go to his ten year high school reunion only to be confronted with the choices he and his high school friends have made. In "catching up" with his once tightly-knit group of friends, he takes a look at what has brought each of them to the point in there lives they are at. 
One has chosen the traditional path of a wife, kids and a house, one man still lives in the glory days of his high school football career and cannot commit to a woman who seems to truly love him. Another is struggling to be mature and only understands what love is after he decides to let his go. 
Then there is the main character. He is both an observer and intimately connected to both the town and the insecurities that the rest of his friends have about their lives. He falls in love with a beautiful girl - Marty (who's name is, she thinks, "the bane of [her] existence") played exquisitely and painfully adolescent by a 13yr old Natalie Portman (Star Wars: Episode 1, The Professional) and he grows in the film to understand that his potential, and hers are the same. 
All this is brought to the front of everyone's consciousness by a beautiful cousin (Uma Thurman: Pulp Fiction, The Truth About Cat's and Dogs) who is visiting and shakes everyone's reality by just being proud of herself and consistent in her morality. He also comes to understand that it is better to live in the present than in the past, and he makes a choice that we should all remember when laboring over life decisions.  
This is a very sensitive movie if you look past the mediocre acting of both Matt Dillon and Michael Rappaport. The setting is good (I swear it was set in my town). The script is thorough, if a bit ambitious. The feeling is warm and real, if a bit fairytale with Uma's character as a Fairy God Mother. A good representation of what precedes that fabled mid-life crisis; it reminds us all that Christopher Robin finally did leave the Hundred Acer Wood he called home. He grew up.