Xanadu, Why do people criticize you so? All you ever wanted was to make  people sing along, throw on a pair of roller skates, and boogie with Olivia  Newton-John and ELO!
I LOVED this movie as a kid. It brings back alot of  memories watching it (we had a roller derby disco in town when I was a kid  and I loved going there, I wanted so much to be like Olivia)...and I love  it now for all the same reasons I loved it then...
It's colorful,  vibrant, visually appealing...and the music truly is incredible...all  though the film is visually dated (the roller skates and all of the 80's  type dress, hair, and makeup) the music remains timeless...the soundtrack  album is considered a classic among many fans of Olivia as well as  ELO...the songs are infectious and as slickly produced as the musical  numbers that contain them.
Which brings me to my point...this movie is a  full length music video, it is nothing more than a series of musical  numbers played out in different vignettes...tied loosely together by a weak  storyline...that is all it seemed intended to be...just visually appealing  fun (like most everything from the 80's i.e. pac-man and rubik's cube), set  to a backdrop of incredible music. High concept, low plot...but what's  wrong with that? I just think people get so tied up in "art" they  forget to have fun...
This movie also succeeded in celebrating two  different eras musically...at the time Olivia Newton-John WAS 80's music,  and Gene Kelly perfectly symbolized the musical films of yesteryear...I  think it was good casting, it made sense for the time. And makes for an  interesting collaboration in styles...particularly in the  "Dancin'" number, in which the two eras collide into one  song...fun and inventive.
Yes...the dialogue is stale, and the acting  appears stiff (particularly in the lead character played by Michael  Beck)...but this film never tried to compete for any Oscars...it was made  to entertain, nothing more...and it succeeds in that pursuit.
Olivia  Newton-John, neon lights, glitter, spandex, leg-warmers, and  rollerskates...ahhhhhh, Xanadu...whatever happened to the 80's of my youth?  Hopefully, they'll come flooding back to me as soon as I get a chance to  buy this DVD! I can't wait...my video is warn out.