I've watched over 100 movies in HD-DVD.  Some movies are marginally enhanced by HD but this isn't one of them. HD takes DH up to another level.  It is easy to be consumed by this drama because it's moving story and arguably has the best ensemble cast ever put together for a movie.  In HD presentation the visuals almost steal the show.  This is an incredibly beautiful looking movie.  I was mesmerized from the get go.  The opening scenes of wide shots of the steel town and then going into the steel mill with sparks flying, gargantuan machines in motion, and molten lava frothing and flowing creates an immediate intimacy with the movie before any dialogue is spoken or actors seen.  This movie is about intimacy, the struggle to find it and the struggle when you lose it.  It's about the importance of intimacy in small towns life.  These steel town men, all they have in life is their way of life.  When that is taken away and disrupted there is a chain reaction that is felt throughout the community and it underscores the old saying, "you can't go home again".  In HD all the details you didn't notice before bring you in that much closer to the characters, you become one of the group as a viewer, sharing in their joys and miseries.  The wedding scenes are phenomenal.  The priests vestments and the gothic interior of the russian orthodox church, the bar where they drink, the mill where they work, the little trailer house where they meet, the white caddy they pile into for their bonding rituals, hunting in the Adirondacks, HD allows you to see all the marvelous detail that exists in these scenes.  The Vietnam scenes are effective but don't quite live up to  the visual splendor of the steel town.  This is where the actors carry the film.  Walken's transformation from a happy go lucky newly wedded working class guy to damaged and disturbed veteran of war outcast is superb and the heart of the movie.  DeNiro's enigmatic character is who we identify with but it's Walken who takes us on the journey.  Meryl Streep is a sight to behold and carries her own in the scenes with the men.  Savage and Cazale and the other supporting actors round out a great cast.  None of these are throw away characters, they all contribute to the high level of intimacy that is created between the film and the viewer.  Bravo!