Having been born 24 years after the initial showing of the Honeymooners, I might not be the target audience that came to mind when this DVD collection was assembled. Funny is funny, however, and these "Classic 39" episodes of the Honeymooners are the funniest half hours ever shown on television and the greatest situation comedy of all time.
You just don't see shows like this now. Nothing is this well acted or this well written. And nothing is just this funny. This is a husband and wife struggling to get by and they look like it, too. This "Friends" where the cast lives like millionaires. This isn't "Fraiser" where they work in some high-profile industry. Ralph drives a bus and Norton works in the sewer (an "underground engineer.") The Kramdens and Norton are real people and real neighbors.
What made the show work so well was the actors. Jackie Gleason owns the material. He doesn't even have to say a word to provide a hilarious moment. Just watch him stew, his face contort while listening to his mother-in-law just prior to his famous blabbermouth rant.
Audrey Meadows is perfect. When Gleason sets 'em up, Meadows' Alice knocks 'em down like no one else. Ralph: "The bills will get bigger & bigger, and I'll get less to eat. Then you know what I'll look like?" Alice: "Yeah, a human being." Episode after episode, she deadpans cut down and cut down with deadly accuracy.
Art Carney's Norton should have his own statue in Washington DC. A terrific actor playing the part perfectly. Like Meadows, Carney has an uncanny chemistry with Gleason. You really can feel the history between the two characters, as if they've been best friends for long enough to be close friends and long enough to get on each others nerves all the time. 
Likewise, you get the same feeling between Ralph and Alice as well as Norton and Trixie, who -- played by Joyce Randolph -- is the perfect match for screwball Norton. 
And of course, there is every else that made the show so great. Bert Weedemeyer, Mr. Marshall, the Friendly Raccoons and Haaaaaarrrrrvy.
Every episode has one belly laugh moment and at least a half dozen great lines. I'm buying two sets. One for myself and one for my - Brooklyn born and raised - dad for Christmas.