"The Yakuza" staring Robert Mitchum with Sydney Pollack as director/producer is an excellent 70's flick, mixing realistic action sequences with a solid story line, tying together WWII with Japanese reconstruction. I think this movie is indictative of what could be called a "post Godfather" mob film; in other words "The Godfather" set a new standard for depth of writing and acting in the portrayal of the underworld, breaking from the shoot em up cliches and cheesey gangster wise guy characters. The action sequences in this movie definately give a nod to the early 70's work of Bruce Lee, but the way Pollack shot and edited the sequences, the fighting seems realistic as it happens so fast that it almost creates  a blur of onrushing chaotic images, conveying what close quarter gun and knive battles must be like.

The scenes with the Japanese lead character, Tanaka Ken are very suspenseful, as I was really on the edge of my seat during the sword fights, and the story line keeps you guessing until the very end.  This mix of excellent writing in Paul Shcrader and Robert Towne's screenplay makes the action scenes that much more climactic.  In Lee's movies, the choreography is the driving factor, leaving alot of the inter figthing scenes to be a bit boring. Pollack's movie uses the fighting to culminate the suspense.  The way he uses quick shots and differing angles really keeps everying very tight.

The principal theme of "Yakuza" is the maintanence of honor amidst the Japanese mob, which as the intro states goes back 300 years. The Yakuza, like other underworld organizations was built around protection rackets, gambling (which features prominently in the movie) and the black market. The female lead Eiko gets mixed up in the black market trade of vital supplies in post WWII Japan (though this is not portrayed in the movie, which all takes place in the mid 1970's), and becomes morally indebted to Mitchum's character Harry Kilmer, a PTO Army MP who policed the streets during the occupation. The alliance with Eiko and her brother Ken (a former Japanese soldier in the Philippines) that Kilmer forms is tested when he asked to rescue the daughter of an old army buddy who has been kidnapped by the Yakuza.  Though the film explores the networks of Yakuza, it has more of an action and K and R format than detailed dialogue concerning other Yakuza operations or their internal structure. Never the less, it still hones in on the core of what Yakuza means through the stellar Japanese/American cast.  Richard Jordan also gives a fine preformance as Kilmer's helper, as the two actors reunited after their Boston based mob movie, "The Friends of Eddie Coyle."