Taken for it's face value "The Beach" is an entertaining, lavish and exiting movie working on 2 levels: The humoristic,  superficial  contemporary picture of a backpacker in beautiful surroundings, which  becomes second nature to the moviegoer and vanishing just as quickly as the  coke and popcorn enjoyed, if this is what one is looking for - or leaving  the committed moviegoer with a nagging point of a knife constantly rousing  the consciousness making it wonder: What was that all about? Why? - and  following a further dive into the inner deep likewise little by little  brings up to mind questions and replies. The message is clear - it does,  however, require efforts of the moviegoer her/himself to put words to it.  And exactly that situation has been the wish of Danny Boyle, I  believe!
If one has expectations about experiencing a "Trainspotting 2",  a successor to "Titanic" with a Jack Dawson risen from the dead - or a true  copy of Alex Garland's book by the same name - well, then you will most  likely return home in disappointment - as it meets with none of these. "The  Beach" has been scripted freely after the book, and going to the theater  with an open mind and wide open eyes - well, then you will be awarded with  2 hrs. of entertainment with an incredibly well-playing Leonardo DiCaprio,  beautiful footage by Darius Khondji, exciting and surprising sound-,  picture- and light effects and not the least a lot to think about following  in respect to our modern society and materialistic based happiness!
With  this role Leonardo DiCaprio has returned pretty close to his earliest and  very highly acknowledged performances of misfit characters as i.e. Arnie  (What's Eating Gilbert Grape), Arthur Rimbaud (Total Eclipse), Jim (Basket  Ball Diaries) and Hank (Marvin's Room). His acting appears amazingly  effortless - but each single facial expression and body movement is  thoroughly considered and communicates an altered state of mind and/or  messages in split seconds. He is capable of looking pure lily-white, make  true madness shine from his eyes, with a single sharp view belch out icy  coldness but not the least have the audience shed a tear with him when he  expresses deep emotions. His acting is beyond compare - strong, charismatic  and seducing. Shame only that he does still have to suffer from the "Jack  Dawson-syndrome" - people who knows the actor are fully aware of the fact  that "Titanic" was the outsider and a solitary experience among his choices  of roles and that exactly "Richard" is so much closer to the type of  characters he wishes to work with and likewise is portraying so extremely  well - but apparently the media won't spare him a chance to put that image  behind...
The movie is obviously dominated by DiCaprio in his capacity of  presenting the main character "Richard" and as - in similarity with the  book - the other characters are generally only faintly defined you are left  with less remembrance of their parts and performances. The choice of Robert  Carlyle as the crazy drug-addict "Daffy" is, however, perfect casting. He  is trustworthy and plays well against DiCaprio. Tilda Swinton is likewise  exactly the right choice for the character of the community's cold,  self-appointed leader "Sal". She expresses just the perfect arrogance,  cynicism, distance and not the least lack of sex appeal as the role  requires of this fanatic character. Scandinavian actors are likewise to be  found among the cast - and although appearing in just a small part -  Norwegian Lars Arentz-Hansen  gives us a fine performance as the very  little symphatic character "Bugs". With his few lines he succeeds to draw a  picture of a self-satisfied, I-know-better type, who does suddenly feel a  threat against his "status" in the group due to Richard's rising  popularity.
Less successfully does it succeed the two French actors to  fill in their roles. Guillaume Canet finds himself in a difficult situation  as his role is a fusion of 2 characters, namely: "Etienne", the male part  of the French lovers and the character "Jed" in the book, who represented  the only islander with just some reasonable sense left. This cloning makes  the character "Etienne" appear as a weak, soft and almost sugar-sweet  person, which I doubt very much has been the original intention. Somehow he  has ended up somewhere "between 2 chairs". Virginie Ledoyen is surely  pretty looking as well as a sweet and very French girl - but maybe too  French! What ever the reason there seems to be no real "spark" between her  and DiCaprio in the love scenes. Maybe the chemistry between these 2 actors  hasn't been a perfect one - for this part an actress with same kind of on  screen charisma and cheerfulness as Kate Winslet and Claire Danes seems  lacking.
The weakest parts of the movie relates primarily to a missing  time indication and a triangle drama that does never really turn into any  drama. Those having read the book are aware of the fact that the situation  at the beach doesn't really start to get out of hand untill some 250 pages  into the book and some 6-8 months following "Richard's" arrival on the  island. Hence Richard's altered mentally state is slowly built up in the  book. In the movie though one does get the impression that everything  happens within a time frame of few weeks only. Therefore I do understand  those movie-goers who doesn't immediately grasp the idea of the meaning  with his sudden change of mind and what the scenes in "the jungle" are all  about. In the book one does likewise have constant expectations of a  triangle love-drama which, however, never comes about - in the movie this  triangle scenario is further developed but, unfortunately, it takes place  totally without any drama and hence leaves you without the expected tension  and intrigues, which is really a pity.
As stipulated in the beginning  "The Beach" should be experienced as a movie of it's own and shouldn't be  the subject to any comparisons what-so-ever. By accepting it as it is I can  promise the moviegoer a really great film experience with a fresh sense of  humor, heavy satire, lavish footage, food for thoughts meeting the  individual need and not the least a happy return to the screen of a  tremendously well acting DiCaprio! I'll give it 4 out of 5 possible  stars.
Kirsten Langer, Denmark