"Doctor Zhivago" with Omar Sharif and Julie Christie is almost forty years old, yet it seems as fresh today as it did in 1965.
Boris Pasternak's book was epic in scope and I think director David Lean made the best choice when he decided to film the movie version as an epic rather than as an intimate love story between Yuri and Lara.  This is the story of a doomed, but beautiful, love and Lean captures its essence so well.
Omar Sharif was perfectly cast as Yuri Zhivago although, at times, I wish the scriptwriters would have made him a bit more of the poet than physician.
Julie Christie was also the perfect Lara.  She was more beautiful in this film than in any other and it's easy to see why Zhivago, Kamarovsky and Antipov were all in love with her, each in his own way and why Tonya admired her, even after realizing her own adored husband loved Lara.
I loved Rod Steiger's portrayal of Kamarovksy.  I know people who preferred the miniseries version because Kamarovsky was more "human" and "softer" but I don't think Kamarovsky was "soft."  At least not on the exterior.  He loved Lara, to be sure, but he didn't care what happened to Yuri Zhivago.
Personally, I didn't care for Geraldine Chaplin as Tonya, but that's a quibble with me where this film is concerned.  She played her part well and was quite believable.
The cinematography in this film is perhaps the most beautiful ever filmed.  The springtime fields of daffodils nodding in the breeze, the majesty of the Urals, the forest where Yuri meets Strelnikov, the snow-covered, ice-laden "summerhouse" where Yuri and Lara spend some of their happiest (and unhappiest) times are simply unforgettable in their beauty and their grandeur.
The script was perfect, the timing was perfect and the score was the perfect accompaniment.
"Doctor Zhivago" is a movie I watch regularly and I always will.  The emotions it depicts are timeless, the doomed love between Yuri and Lara is perfectly captured by Sharif and Christie.  It is truly one of the most beautiful stories ever filmed.