I went in to Paycheck with low expectations and it was just as I thought it would be - boring.
The basic story is Michael Jennings (Ben Affleck) plays a reverse engineer who does work for companies then gets his mind wiped afterwards, just picks up the paycheck and has no idea what he did for the last several months.  He meets up with a friend of his, Jimmy Rethrick (played by Aaron Eckhart of the Core and Erin Brockovich), who offers him a job.  The catch is that it's going to be a 3 year job and the entire 3 years will be wiped from his memory when its over.
He takes the job and afterwards goes to pick up his 92 million dollar paycheck only to find he forfeited all funds and sent himself 19 apparently useless items, that end up being clues and lifesavers that help him figure out what he did the last 3 years that was so bad.  The only interesting part about the movie was seeing how each item was used in an interesting way to further the plot.  Also starring in the movie as Michael's girlfriend (whom he no longer remembers since his mind was wiped) is Kill Bill's Uma Thurmon (who can do SO much better than this!).
The action scenes are just "ok" and very typical John Woo (lots of cars that randomly blow up.. if cars in real life blew up as easily as they do in John Woo films, I would be dead right now!).  I did enjoy the BMW motorcycle chase, which was probably the best action sequence of the entire film.  
The dialogue is horrible as is the casting.  Although I get made fun of a lot for it, I do like Ben Affleck and when he's cast right, I think he's a great actor.  I think he did just ok in this role.  Uma Thurmon is a fantastic actress, but the writing for her part was just horrible.  And whoever did her hair needs to find a new job - they made her look absolutely terrible.
The film is full of ridiculous events, real forehead slappers.  One of the most memorable is when Michael is being questioned by the FBI, who for some reason have him in a chair that revolves around and around and around, and they have the camera moving around it as well, it almost made me dizzy.  Then for some reason, one of the FBI agents lights one of the cigarettes from Michael's envelope, which sets off a smoke detector.  You'd think these agents would KNOW there are smoke detectors and NOT light a cigarette.  Anyways, Michael fortunately has some glasses in his envelope that help him see through the powder fire prevention system that has all the FBI agents bumbling around like idiots because they can't see.  (Great system!  If there is a fire and this goes off, no one will be able to see!  They'll all fumble around like chickens with their heads cut off and eventually die because they can't get anywhere!)
The concept of the film is interesting and I'm willing to forgive that most movies involving time travel or "seeing of the future" will have unexplainable plot holes, this one was just poorly done.  The ending especially is anticlimactic and just plain BAD.  I give it two stars because while the writing was terrible, I did enjoy parts of it (mostly I enjoyed anticipating what each item would be used for).