I must disagree with the scathing reviews I have read here.  I have become very jaded with movies...a long line of endless clones blending together.  This movie stood out from the crowd!

  I was totally captivated and am throughly enchanted each time I watch it.  I love the skillful way in which the producer entertwined the past with the present.  It was as though the past love affair had transcended time to envelope the modern couple. They recognized the love of the past couple and came to experience it themselves.

  I could feel how spellbound the modern couple was in discovering the details of the past, and how it affected them as a couple falling in love.  The way the new loves went to the same places and viewed the same scenery with the same awe was very well done. You could sense them moving through the same stages of their love affair, although their circumstances were different.

  I disagree that the modern couple was not perfectly cast.

They were the perfect contrast and made the victorian couple all the more entralling. I found all 4 actors/actresses completely believable and perfect for the story.  They all possessed a sensualness and passion that was quite palpable.

The love scenes were very tastefully done and not at all vulgar and explicit as some are these days.

  The first time that I saw this movie, I found myself caught up in both romances...feeling the longing, joy, and dispair of starcrossed lovers; feeling the trepidation, yet excitement,

and overwhelming pull of the new love as they discovered not only the love of the past, but their own growing love.

  I think this movie shows how love transcends time. It also shows that our lives and love impacts others sometimes in ways that we never know and lend assurance that though we are born and die, love perseveres.

  I was hooked from the first moment and wasn't bored for an instant.  I am now eager to read the book that inspired this movie.  I commend the writer for this marvel of a story; as well as the director and actors for their portrayal of this mesmerizing story.

  The scenery was breathtaking and contributed to the overall feel of sensualness and passion.

  In my opinion, this movie should win all sorts of awards.

This movie is probably my favorite movie of all time.  It left me feeling that although the victorian couple had only a short time together...they were always in love.  The modern couple learned from that past love and didn't have the same obstacles...their love was enriched by the love of the past.