With the tag line, "Everything will be alright in the end and if it is not alright it is not the end" we are assured that there will be no tragedies in this movie. Most older people have had enough tragedies in their real lives not to need to see others suffer for entertainment. Real life almost never lives up to the promises and we are lucky if we end up somewhere that is at least interesting and interested in improvement. So even with the cliched characters, unlikely coincidences and improbably timed events it is a pleasure to watch this group struggle to deal with the situation as it is. Even the inevitable death is well timed to avoid complications.

This movie has hardly left my DVD player since I bought it a few days ago. I have researched locations and the ages of the actors online and watched Evil Under the Sun where a younger Maggie Smith plays a very different type of innkeeper. So I had to give it 5 stars even though I recognize the flaws. There are a few places that I now skip over and others that always amuse me. I recommend pausing the DVD to check out the "Have you lost your vigor" poster in the clinic when Norman goes to get a little help. When Sunaina suggests to Evelyn that she imagine her listeners naked I am inclined to suspect that I would be unable to speak because I would be staring at her brother Jay (Sid Makeer) with my mouth open.

If there is a cliche that irritates me here it is the idea that one must have a lover to be happy. This is exemplified when Madge Hardcastle confides that she is afraid that she is no longer attractive to men and "what else is there"? The answer is "lots of things". This may be why several people have found the characters of Madge and Norman less satisfying than the ones who have other interests. Rather than simple wish fulfillment the others find new truths and competencies. Douglas discovers that he can be handy, Evelyn and Muriel discover that they still have value and Graham learns that he has been living with an assumption that has cost him a lot of pain. Even the dreadful Jean learns what she really wants.

And so all who live do so happily ever after.