I won't repeat what others have already said about the historical significance of this film or its contents.  I do want to share my opinions about the Kino restoration vs the Moroder version.
I already owned the Moroder version when I purchased the Kino restoration on DVD.  Like many others, I was amazed at the incredible visual clarity of the Kino restoration when compared to the Moroder version, as others have said it looks like it was shot yesterday, not 70+ years ago.  Also, seeing it with a performance of the original score provided a different experience.
Some of the other differences are:
1. The Kino version contains some footage missing from the Moroder version, but not a lot more.  The scene that stands out most for me is the first scene in Frederson's office - we gain a better understanding of how hard he works and how much he expects from those below him, so the firing of Josephat and Josaphat's reaction makes more sense than it does in the Moroder version.  Another scene that is significantly different is the first meeting between Frederson and Rotwang - their rivalry is portrayed in greater depth in the Kino restoration, although it is also perfectly clear in the Moroder version.
2. Many `purists' have complained about the music in the Moroder version.  I disagree, I think that the music and the lyrics greatly enhance the emotional impact of the Moroder version.  Don't misunderstand, I think the original orchestral score as presented in the Kino version is great, but words and music together are far more powerful than either alone.
3. The story is a bit different.  Personally, I think that the story as presented in the Moroder version makes more sense, why would Frederson want his workers to revolt?  But this is his motivation for having Rotwang create the machine-man in the Kino restoration.
4. Many `purists' complain about the colorization in the Moroder version.  I admit, there were places where I found it a bit jarring, but overall I think it adds to the emotional tone of the film.  Still, I think the Kino restoration is valuable for what it is, a restoration.
The point I am trying to make is this.  The Kino restoration is an incredible piece of work that will be of great value to all who wish to experience as much of the original film as is possible today.  But, in my opinion the Moroder version, with its modern lyrical score is also of great value, maybe not as much in a historical context but as a separate film experience.  Think of the Moroder version as a new work based on an old work, not as a restoration.
My recommendation?  See them both, but see the Moroder version first, the Kino version second.  Otherwise, you'll be distracted by the degraded video quality in the Moroder version and you'll miss the incredible soundtrack.  Someday when home computers become more powerful and video production software is cheaper and easier to use I'll probably dub the Moroder soundtrack to the Kino video and have the best of both worlds.  Until then, the Moroder video isn't that bad, it is about what you would expect from a 70+ year old silent film, but the Kino video, in comparison, is incredible.
And, by the way, the Japanese animated film produced a couple of years ago bears only the most superficial resemblance to the original, I was seriously disappointed.