What else needs to be said?  It's absolutely classic and if you're a Dr. Who fan, it's a must-have that ranks just behind the Key To Time series.  We pick up Adric (Matthew Waterhouse) and unfortunately lose Romana and K9 who stay behind in E-Space.

As far as the stories themselves go, Warrior's Gate is by far the best and one of the top Dr. Who stories of the Tom Baker era.  The other two are good but not among the best plots, IMHO.

In Full Circle, the Tardis is sucked into E-Space (Exo-Space), an alternate universe, through a Charged Vacuum Emboitment (CVE) whatever that is! :)  We learn where the CVE's came from in Logopolis, Tom's final story.  E-Space is a universe without a lot of stars and the Tardis lands on Alzarius where they find a crashed ship with a population of people who are actively engaged in repairing the ship.  Adric is one of the young people on board and someone with advanced mathematical abilities.  We later find out that the ship has been there for generations and the "crew" are afraid to attempt a takeoff because the original pilots are long since dead.  The leaders keep secret the fact that the ship is ready to go and have everyone constantly repairing it.  A major aspect of the plot is the relationship of the crew to the indigenous creatures on the planet.  But you have to watch it.  At any rate the Doctor solves the mysteries and helps them finally take off.  Adric stows away on the Tardis.  This is another excellent Tom Baker story.

But the Tardis is stuck in E-Space with no apparent way to get back to N-Space!

In State of Decay, the Tardis lands on a world near a small village.  The villagers fear the rulers who live in a nearby castle.  It turns out that the castle is actually an ancient space ship from Earth and the rulers are actually the original officers of the ship, kept alive because they were turned into vampires by a giant vampire.  This giant is a creature from the lore of ancient Gallifrey.  The Time Lords had once battled the race of vampires and drove the leader into E-Space.  The Doctor defeats the vampire, freeing the villagers.  The Doctor, Romana, and now Adric, leave the planet.  Personally, I never like stories about blood thirsty vampires so this one is not my favorite.  Nevertheless, like "The Empire Strikes Back" it's part of the storyline and leads into the next story, Warrior's Gate.

In Warrior's Gate the Tardis becomes stuck in a rift between the two universes.  It turns out that there is another vessel also stuck in the rift and this vessel contains a load of slave Tharils, a race to time sensitive, leonine people.  Tharils are used to navigate through the timelines and are considered a valuable commodity.  In order to keep the Tharils contained on the ship, its hull had to be made from a dwarf star alloy which means the ship had incredibly high mass.  In the center of the rift is a structure, a building, and the Doctor realizes it contains a gateway to N-Space.  But since the slaver ship is so massive, it starts contracting the space around the gate, precipitating a crisis.  The Doctor discovers that the Tharils were once a dominant and tyrannical race who have now been reduced to slavery.  One Tharil named Biroc helps the Doctor learn the truth about the Tharils and how to pass through the gate back into N-Space.  Meanwhile the slave ship, in desperation to escape the rift and its imminent collapse, turns the ship's engines on the gateway hoping to use the back blast to open it.  But instead the back blast destroys the ship allowing the enslaved Tharils to escape.  Romana elects to stay behind in order to help the Tharils and the Doctor gives her K9 to help her in the effort.  Just before passing through the gateway the Doctor calls out "You were the best Romana".  With absolutely no offense to Mary Tamm, the first Romana, Lalla Ward was certainly a terrific Romana.  Of course, two months later Baker and Ward were married but unfortunately the marriage didn't last.

Everything about Warrior's Gate is outstanding and no Doctor Who collection is complete without it.