I am quite certain that The Legend of Bagger Vance is a special film. In comparison to other films that have been made over the course of film history, Bagger is a film that, for entertainment's sake alone, is probably pretty average or at most above average. But to the thinking movie-goer, this film has a lot more to offer: an interesting mix of hidden meanings, hidden dialogue, and a bridging of time past with time present that makes it an intriguing film of human interest, rebirth, and spirituality. Don't worry if you don't see it right away- it took me multiple viewings to really decipher what I believe Redford was trying to get across. Truth is, I'm still probably missing some things. That being said, many of Redford's films have open-ended meanings; that is, people interpret the film's meaning differently and Bagger Vance is certainly no different. For those of you who think this is an average film, I would ask you to please look closer.
 One interesting thing about this film that some viewers have questioned is the title. Bagger Vance is really not the centerpiece of the story which begs the question, who is this story about? Rannulph Junuh, the golfer who is being brought back to the light or is it about Hardy Greaves, the young boy who is telling the story as he remembers it as an old man. One interesting take I have heard is that the story never really DID take place- that the whole story was indeed the imagination of Hardy Greaves; he romanticized this golfer so much through his father's stories (in the film, Hardy says that he never saw Junuh play) and that Junuh actually DIED during that war sequence in the film. Certainly an interesting hypothesis and worth studying further, but for all intents and purposes, the story is about Rannulph Junuh. Or is it about you? The story is told in a fable-like fashion where the characters get in, make their points, and get out quickly enough to make you wonder what just happened and how it applies to your life.
 Also notice the dialogue and how God or heaven is mentioned or hinted at throughout the film. When Bagger appears out of the darkness he says that he is taking in, "some of God's glories," as if God has just released him to help Junuh, a la Clarence in "It's a Wonderful Life". When Junuh is struggling in the match and the town mayor Neskaloosa asks Bagger, "What on God's green earth are you telling him?" Bagger replies, "Sir, I'd be most appreciative if we talk about this a bit later; right now I'm busy assisting Mr. Junuh," as if somewhere down the road Bagger and his angelic qualities will call on Neskaloosa. And lastly, when Bagger is showing Junuh "The Field" and Junuh blasts his opening drive well down the fairway, watch where Redford takes us as the ball in flight angles up toward the sky. These instances further explain Bagger's heaven-sent objective to help Junuh find, "the swing that God gave you when you come into this world."
 Time also is a major player in the film as Junuh struggles to find his authentic self. One of the tag lines to market the film was, "It was just a moment ago," signifying that the barrier that separates us from the self we were a time ago is indeed a thin one. How many times have we looked upon a past time in our lives where we experienced success and said, "I wish I was that person today" or "Where did that person go?" For Bagger, his challenge in the film is to show Junuh that as far removed as he feels from his pre-war days, his authentic self is trying to re-surface amidst the years of self-doubt. We see time play a major part in this film during a scene where Junuh is beginning to regain his confidence and break through the time barrier. He approaches Adele at the dinner party and kisses her and everything else around them stops- including the music. They have a brief romantic interlude that, to this point in the film, has been missing due to Adele's frustration and Junuh's apparent lack of interest in their relationship. For a moment, Redford takes us back to Junuh's pre-war days to when Junuh and Adele were madly in love. He is literally transcending time during this scene; then the kiss wears off, the music begins again, and Adele is back to her present day posturing, trying to make Junuh want her again. Don't believe me? Watch and listen the next day as Adele pulls Junuh off behind the tree and Junuh asks if something happened last night since they talked.
 One other area that is worth mentioning is the numeric message that Redford uses to highlight the "one true self." In many literary tales, numbers are important factors to the story(usually the number 3) and in this film notice how Redford hons in on the first hole, using the "1" on the first flag and holding the shot on at least two occasions. This symbolizes the idea of finding your "one true self."
 These are just a few things that I have noticed while watching "Bagger" that others have missed. I'm sure there are others, including the ending, which have an even greater significance. The cinematogrophy is amongst the most beautiful I have ever seen- in fact the only films I could think of that rivaled "Bagger" were other Redford films, "The Horse Whisperer" and "A River Runs Through It."
 I have seen many films that I have enjoyed over the years but few have stayed with me the way The Legend of Bagger Vance has. The scene where Bagger is showing Junuh "The Field" is one of the most awe-inspiring montages I have ever seen. We know Bagger has the ability to see "what others cannot see" early in the film when he "senses" the storm coming amidst a picture perfect day, and we wonder what Bagger allows Junuh to see on that first hole while he is showing Junuh "The Field." An ambitious, optimistic, and nostalgic film that only someone with the eye of Robert Redford could a) approach and, b) tell effectively, The Legend of Bagger Vance is a modern classic that I am sure we'll see on Turner Classic Movies sometime in the very near future.