I don't work for any corporation, water bottler or otherwise.  I don't support what is commonly called capitalism.  I am, however, a daily consumer of bottled water, and will continue to be indefinitely.

This production is not a documentary.  It is a hit piece, period.

It fails to address the most important issues of why people want to drink bottled waters: 1) taste, and 2) safety.

Water has character, and there are countless dynamics that impart taste to it.  Water will taste different from every tap, and can vary ever so slightly even between a glass or bottle from the same spring.  To claim that "water is water is water" is as ignorant as claiming "beer is beer is beer" or "wine is wine is wine."  I emphasize: ignorant.  Or is it dishonesty?

While I do not drink bottled tap water such as Dasani or Aquafina, the fact those products are purified via the reverse osmosis process or similar makes them significantly to greatly safer than the typical tap water in most communities.  Spring water, from a protected, natural spring, is incomparable to tap water.  There is no municipal water supply anywhere that matches a protected, natural spring.  To claim that spring water is "no safer" than tap water which often contains MTBE or any variety of hundreds of industrial pollutants is just plain stupid...or a shameful lie.  Back to taste: nearly all people are aware when water tastes bad, and often, that taste indicates the presence of pollutants.

The production crew for this video has obviously learned from the best of history's propagandists.  No longer "just the facts, m'am," but rather "just the facts that FIT, m'am."  An example is how they decry the strain of bottled water on community aquifers, ignoring the fact that one of the so-called "environmentalists'" pet-projects, biofuels, is dozens of times more damaging to aquifers across America.  Yet another is the complaint about bottled water containers and transportation; are the filmmakers against all consumer packaging, or just that of bottled water? (notice the Cup O' Noodles container in the video of the trashed lake).

I'll attribute the severely slanted position of this video to be merely self-serving naivete, a dangerous example of the "do-gooder" syndrome stemming from the maxim, "the road to Hell is paved with good intentions."  If I were more conspiracy-minded, I might think that this production was funded and "guided" by the same government & corporate interests that add poisons like sodium fluoride to the supposedly "safe" and "delicious" tap water.