ADDENDUM:  April 14, 2012 - I was looking to find what Chris Haddock is producing now. For those who might be interested, go to an article written in February of this year in Macleans.Ca.  Apparently he is living and working in New York as a writer on someone else's show.  Canada had its chance and because it could not support a talented writer, they lost him to the U.S.  What a rotten shame.
DaVinci's Inquest is now re-running on KONG TV in Seattle.
------------------
Addendum:  June, 2010 - Acorn managed to put out a total of three seasons and that appears to be all they can do.  None have been issued on DaVinci the Mayor and there are no Chris Haddock creations out on Canadian TV that I've been able to find - at least none of this quality.  CBC appears to prefer 3rd rate talk shows and pablum oriented programming.  Unfortunate, because there is some amazing talent in Canada (and I live in the U.S.!)  All of the reviews have not swayed Acorn, but we tried. DaVinci's Inquest is airing on Channel 6 with Comcast in Washington State right now.  Anyone out there have any new information on where else it might be airing?  I see adds that "new" episodes are running on "You Tube", but personally am not interested in sitting at a computer to watch programming.
--------------------
First entry:  March, 2007:  All of the reviews of this series are right on.  I am so impressed with Nicholas Campbell and the men who put this series together, along with the sequel, when DaVinci becomes mayor.  All or a portion of this group also, if I'm correct, created "Intelligence", which is running currently and one of the most engaging series on television. And they can't decide if it will continue for a second season!
Yet - we can only buy Season One of "DaVinci's Inquest".  This series is intelligently and realistically written with a mix of humour, the real problems of political and street life and heroes with forgivable and recognizable flaws.  What's not to love?!
I've written CBC countless times and they appear to have no interest in what their viewers want.
We can buy DVD's of countless mindless series, yet Canada produces a remarkable trio of series and we viewers can't get our hands on them.  What the heck are they thinking?  Perhaps a better question - ARE they thinking?
It would appear they are wonderful at creating but miserable at marketing.

One of the best aspects of these series is that the violence is not gratuitous and not in your face.  They understand you don't have to have blood and gore to create tension.  It is always just far enough away that you are not smacked with it, say, as one is with the CSI series.
"DaVinci's Inquest" is NOT written for the average 12 year old mind, thank God. We can only hope someone wakes up and puts all of the episodes on DVD so the fans can watch them over and over.  They are worth every minute of your time.