Oddly enough, I had to get over the hump of thinking "a guy is on an island by himself with a vollyball.  How interesting can that be?" before I could watch "Cast Away".  Yes, I knew it was a silly thought - after all, it was Tom Hanks playing that guy, and being alone on an island for years is rarely a holiday.

At the beginning, Chuck (Tom Hanks) is a very motivated FedEx systems manager who is very invested in making sure the international offices are up to speed on the philosophy of the company.  He travels often, in a cargo plane,  but is very dedicated to his PhD candidate girlfriend Kelly (Helen Hunt) back in Memphis, the FedEx hub.  Around Christmas he returns from Russia and joins Kelly's family for a close, friendly Christmas dinner, but then gets called to a location past the South Pacific.  Immediately before boarding that flight he gives Kelly a box which we assume has an engagement ring and he tells her, "I'll be right back".

Then they hit a storm, head off course and the plane has an explosion.  To my claustrophobic eye, the plane crash is horrific and Chuck almost doesn't make it away from the sinking plane on his lifeboat.  *shudder*  Luckily, he and his lifeboat, nothing else, wash ashore on a tiny island just shortly after, sparing us scenes of desperate survival on the open sea before he hits land.

Chuck manages to figure out how to get water, crack coconuts, make fire, spearfish and devise a buddy, Wilson.  He has next to nothing- just the raft, his clothes, the contents of the very few FedEx boxes that float ashore, and an heirloom pocketwatch given him by Kelly for Christmas, with her picture inside.  Four years- (FOUR years!) later, he is lean, with toughened feet and a longstanding relationship with Wilson, a hunk of a porta-potty wall washes ashore and he has what he needs to make his escape.  He and Wilson build a raft and set off to wherever the wind takes them.

Other reviewers have included a spoiler on his relationship with Kelly- skip this if you don't know about that yet-  Of course Craig has high hopes for seeing Kelly since she is how he kept himself alive during his isolation.  But four years is a long time when others are trying to convince you someone is dead, and she eventually caved in and married their dentist.  It's quickly apparent that she still loves him, but he believes she needs to let go of him then- he says he is "happy she was with him on the island" and acknowledges her picture and memory were important to his survival.  He contemplates that he doesn't know what the tide might drag in- a reference to his porta-potty sail- and he feels it's important to move on with his life.  I'm not sure I agree, but at the same time, I can understand why someone would be unwilling to cause of breaking up Kelly's family.

The commentary on the second disk is interesting- the directors and screenwriters hired experts in stone age living and one of them spent some time living alone on the Baja where he made shelter, learned to catch food, learned to make fire, etc, in order to authentically write the the script for Chuck's survival.  The idea for "Wilson" came from that experience and it was their belief that a figure like that would be crucial to keeping a person sane during a solitary trial.  I haven't decided if that would be true for me though.

It's fascinating to contemplate how we would do in a situation like that.  How many of us believe we would have the motivation to keep breathing, to work every day to live off the tiny environment supplied by fate?  How many of us believe we would just lay down and give up?  This film can provide lots of good food for thought on sleepless nights, but preferably not on the over the water portion of international flights.