I knew what this film would be about before I rented it, but I'm stunned that it would be THIS good. Nothing against "Saving Private Ryan" or "Shakespeare in Love", but this film should have won Best Picture in 1998 and it was a shame that it wasn't nominated. It's an even  bigger injustice that it did not get a nomination for best screenplay or  cinematography.
In the hands of another writer, this movie could have  been made as just a parody of 1950's sitcoms like "Leave It To  Beaver" or "Ozzie and Harriet." But this film isn't about  how clich&eacute;d those series look decades later. It's about the false nostalgia  for a past that never existed. We survived the past and we know that  everything turned out all right. Because of this, we selectively choose our  memories and weed out the unpleasant ones. That's why the past is sometimes  seen as "the good ol' days." "Pleasantville" does not  represent how the 50's actually were but rather an idealization of what  people THINK the 50's were---no one had sex, everyone got along swell, and  life was fairly easy. Nothing could be further from the truth, and there  are many films from that era which show how real people (even in suburbia)  actually lived. This film argues that free will and choice is ESSENTIAL to  life and that we should embrace freedom instead of fearing it. It isn't  just about making out, but having the OPTION to make out.
Another  reviewer claimed that this film was an attack on the 50's, but David and  Jennifer could very easily have been dumped in the world of "The Brady  Bunch", "Gilligan's Island" , or "Batman." But  setting "Pleasantville" in a 1950's sitcom allows for the  brilliant metaphor of black and white versus color. Black and white  photography is a stylized depiction of the universe, but unless you're  color blind it's not the way you actually see the universe. When we first  see Pleasantville's citizens, all of them are cardboard cut-outs of  stereotypes. As they begin to open up and become real people, color seeps  into their world. The catalyst seems to be the willingness to experience  new sensations and become vulnerable. Jennifer has slept with lot of guys  when she was in the normal world, so sex does not change HER into a color  character. On the other hand, when she actually finishes a book (without  pictures) for the first time in her life, THEN she becomes colorized.  Similarly, David does not bloom into color until he breaks out of his  aloofness and defends his "mother." Compare the way he ignores  his real mother at the beginning of the film to how he consoles and  comforts her at the end to see how much David has changed.
I could go on  and on, but I think you get the idea. There are a lot of films out there  that are very entertaining and/or very moving--like "Raiders of the  Lost Ark" or "Titanic." Movies like  "Pleasantville" which challenge the audience and force them to  think are very rare, and should be treasured by the discerning  filmgoer.