You know when you go to RedBox, and they can't get the contract with the Screen Actors Guild for the newest movies that particular month, and they have to fill their DVD vending machines with movies from other countries that have lower budgets?  That's what the cover feels like.  I see Lilo and Stitch.  I see World of WarCraft: "Join the Quest"; "Dragon Hunters"; and a castle in the background.  I see Asian.  I see some little girl telling warriors and parents what to do /palmface-Disney style, because at Disney every 11 year old has an advanced degree and knows everything that there is to know, so of course they are the hero...stupid parents, what can wisdom teach you anyway? lol &lt;---that's Disney.  There was an artist that sold his soul in 2000, so I don't know his name.  He took close up picutres of dogs with a wide angle lense.  They have his work on thedog-clubsDOTcom.  Today, this is such an influence, every moive, game, cartoon, etc. have an element of this, and I about want to get sick it's so cute.  Knowing this ahead of time, why would I rent this?  Someone told me to.

But, you know what...I liked it.  idk why.  It's a good moive.  Lots of detail.  Intense butch girlie detail.  It's like they hired a bunch of 'butch chick artists' that can fix their own dang tires when they go flat in Oregon, not east coast, uptight, tea, bisket, doll chicks, that sit around and discuss hemlines.  If you marry butch, they'll let you sit on the couch and they'll have the date the roof needs to be changed on the calendar, but miss your anniversay & birthday.  Serious.  Deer season opening - they have it scheduled as a vaction day too.

Where is this comming from?  When I Yahoo'ed the little tiny fine print Futurikon Films, it's French.  The French multi-media are kind of like the Japaneese that buy a US product, break the copyright and license laws, tear the product down, and make a new one that's boarder-line same exact thing with one extra button.  The French have some facination with the US time period 1970's minus the racial tension.  Maybe after that, that's when the Hurst Estate Hollywood prudes that kept the weirdo's and Commies out of the movies passed away.  After this point, wham, bam, thank you, mam, everything is shock-value and little conent.  Maybe it is just social policy following manufacturing ideas of things that must fall apart to make money.  idk, just saying the 80's could have had more good times and less meltdowns.  To explain what the French do search YoutubeDOTcom for Joe Fabulous bad company.  The movie is pretty cool too.

(how's that for no spoilers?)  Go see it.  You'll like it too, but idk why. :)