This review won't be very visual since I've been blind since birth, but here's hoping I can still convince you to make this purchase.  I had missed watching this series when I was a kid since we didn't get the WB for the longest time.  My little brother was nuts for it back in the late 90's.  I do remember seeing the first 2 parts of the pilot when I was visiting him in Memphis and loving them.  So it was a treat when WB released this in 2005. This volume comprises the first 18 episodes of the series.  We're introduced to Superman in the 3 part pilot, The Last Son of Krypton.  And we're also introduced to memorable villains like Lex Luthor, Brainiac, and the dreaded Darkseid.  Give this series a chance if you've got a few extra bucks lying around.

  This is so much better than the Superman movies.  I think it's a great deal more serious, and with a darker Lex Luthor.  I just couldn't take the mad scientist version of him seriously, but Clancy Brown does a wonderful job of voicing and introducing a new take on the character.  Lex doesn't go around throwing kryptonite at Superman every chance he gets like we've seen in the live action films.  He is more suttle in this hit series.  He's a devious and successful businessman who owns half of Metropolis, and he gets away with just about everything.  Great move by the writers.  I'm sure it was done in the comics first,but since I am totally blind, I couldn't tell you anything about that.

  Another thing I enjoyed about these episodes was the way some of them built on each other.  For instance, we're introduced to a very important villain in an episode called Tools of The Trade which is included in this set.  The writers leave fans who have never read the Superman comics wanting to know more, and they certainly deliver in episodes further down the line.  They also treat Brainiac, who is introduced in the 3 part pilot, in similar fashion.  But like I said, they always deliver.

  As far as bonus material goes, we're treated to a few episode commentaries and a featurette focusing on the origins of this animated series.  It kept me entertained for hours when I picked this set up in mid 2005.  So if you've never seen this show and aren't wanting to risk purchasing the complete series, try the first 18 episodes.  It's a perfect gift for people of all ages since shows from the DC Animated Universe were designed to please just about everyone.