First of all, this movie has nothing to do with the newer anime series, BLOOD +, but is in fact a live action version of the older anime, BLOOD: THE LAST VAMPIRE.

Secondly, where the anime relied more on stylized gore, the live action relies way more on stylized sword fighting and stunt work (which you might think would be a bad thing, where in fact it adds a really cool new dimension to the story and visuals).

You have to keep in mind, when going into the live action movie, that the original anime was done as more of a visual test than a character piece, as the animators where more concerned with the stylized look of the anime (an anime that blended 3D CGI elements and FX camera work with stylized 2D animation to achieve a bold looking, but story light, anime; technically a studio show real, to use to impress future clients looking to have them do anime for them).

Now what the live action movie does is take the 48 minute stylized anime, and turn it into a more character driven 90+ minute movie (which it does very well).

What we get with the live action film, is much more back story (told through flash backs) of the main character Saya and of her handlers (who are played more like, Men In Black types in the anime, but are given bigger roles and more fleshed out characters in the live action version).

Also, the anime story is told in the first half of the film, leaving a second half that delves into a more personal story of the Saya character which ties into the first part, in part, and also ties more deeply into her past, and gives us some insight into her motivations in the present.

As for the sword play and stunt work, I'd liken it to that in movies such as, AZUMI, with lots of great stylized sword and wire work done by a very competent, kick butt, female lead.

If I had any qualms about the film, it would be the design and sometimes execution of the demon make up and CGI treatment of the fully realized demon characters.  Where as the anime versions where quite elaborate and grotesque, the live action counterparts are much more subdued and even a tad bland in comparison, and at times the CGI versions are of a lower quality than the movie needed, but that is just one little problem that doesn't destroy the rest of the film, or lessen it in anyway.

So overall I'd say that anyone looking for a live action copy of the anime, should just stick with the anime, but for those who liked the anime and would like to see it expanded upon in a live action format, and/or would like to see some great sword action to boot, then this movie is for you.