It's not often that a movie of this caliber comes along from any country, but thankfully one has! I don't go see movies at a theatre often, but this movie showed me  how a really great movie can touch you in so many ways and yes, bring a lot of joy!

Take a tumultuous and interesting period in Indian history (the 1500's, when the young Muslim Mughal emperor Akbar is still consolidating control over the various kingdoms of northern India), add a fascinating story of his politically based marriage (taboo until then) to the Hindu princess Jodhaa, have two of the most stunning human beings (Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai) play the leads, and with SERIOUS romantic sizzle between them... add beautiful locations (forts and courts of Rajasthan, Agra and Delhi), exquisite interiors, sumptuous costumes and exquisite jewelery (who would have had more?)... and not least, envelop the whole thing in AR Rahman's unforgettable music, and you have Jodhaa Akbar!

Akbar, for those who don't know, is known in history as "Akbar the great", for many reasons, especially his (novel) tolerance of non-Muslims.  This movie shows some of the seeds of his tolerant stand towards non-Muslims, something very different from his predecessors and contemporaries.  He seems to have been a multi-faceted man, known both as a great warrior as well as for his encouragement of the fine arts in his court.  His heir was born to his Hindu Rajput wife, here (and historically) known as Jodhaa.

This is my first time seeing Hrithik Roshan, and I'm amazed how perfect and appealing he is in this role. He is both quietly regal and seriously magnetic!  He's great!  I now understand why there was "Hrithik-mania" in India when he started acting!

The movie shows how this couple eventually go past their cultural and religious differences to build trust and love. Hrithik and Aishwarya bring Akbar and Jodhaa and their mutual fascination and wariness so convincingly to the screen (but then, who would not be fascinated with one of them as your spouse?).  The final scene has to be one of THE most romantic scenes I've ever seen! It's breathtaking, especially with the music. It exemplifies that you can develop extreme sensuality without "R" rated scenes if you know what you're doing.

A R Rahman's score is fabulous and evocative. Khwajaa mere khwajaa, Mann Mohana and Inn Lamahon are instant classics and add so much to the depth and beautiful texture of this movie.  Unlike standard Indian movies, where the music may distract from the movie, the few choice songs in this movie add to and tie together the movie.  I now want to look for more AR Rahman music (and I know there's tons for this superstar music director).

Oh yes, for those looking for action - there are exciting battle scenes and sword fights.  Elephants and camels going to war!  It was fun to see helmets and shields of the type I've seen at the National Museum in Delhi actually being used in this movie.  And to see the various forts being used as they would have been 500 years ago was magical!  History indeed sprang to life, and so excitingly.

The whole movie team has done a great job - a coherent plot beautifully executed (a rarity in any movie, whether Western or Indian), stunningly photographed and edited, with stars you can watch all day and music that stays with you, altogether draw you in and keep you engrossed for the whole 3+ hours (there is an intermission at the theatre). Although there's plenty of fiction that the writers had to develop (since they admit there's no real info on this pair's private life), there's also plenty of real history shown in this movie, including interesting small details.  It made me do a lot of web searching afterward on various related topics.

I'm really happy to see an Indian movie be both deeply Indian and produced so compellingly and professionally - something that older Indian movies, which often had good stories and great music, but often kept going long after the plot had run out really missed out on.  The plot and story line are tight and the editing is fabulous.

The biggest compliment I can give is that rather than watching a made up movie, I felt like I was actually watching them living their real lives! That certainly doesn't happen too often! I've enjoyed it so much, that I've driven 100 miles round trip twice in one week to see it on the big screen!

This movie should be showing at mainstream theaters in the US.  Friends of all backgrounds enjoyed the soundtrack so much that they want to see the movie. I only hope Oscar's paying attention - this is much higher order movie making than 99% of the stuff out anywhere.

Hollywood can take many lessons from Mr. Gowariker (the director), including on how to develop romance on screen, something (along with humanity and warmth) that's really missing in most western movies these days.  Too many of today's movies are busy blasting us out of the theatre with the noise level, cutting from scene to scene so quickly as to almost  bring on seizures (as well as make us miss out on what's going on) and general contrivance and predictability.

See it at the theater first if you possibly can (it's too big and beautiful to squeeze into the small screen - you're going to be missing out on a lot!), or at least on the dvd if you can't, but don't miss it - it's too much fun, and it's the closest we can come to time travel to the 1500's!!

BTW, it thankfully has good English subtitles (other than for the song "Inn Lamahon", where the subtitles make no sense at all)!  There are websites that give both song lyrics and their English translation that add to your enjoyment.  I give it two thumbs and two big toes up too! Thank you, Ashutosh Gowariker!