Fer cryin' out loud ... when did it become a faux pas to have *fun* at the movies?  "Broken Arrow" won't win any Academy Awards, but it's non-stop action, fun and a little hey-we're-in-this-together-and-if-we-survive-we're-gonna-have-to-go-out-on-a-date romance (isn't this standard fare for action movies?) ... 
Poor Christian Slater ... c'mon folks give him a break ... This was one of the first movies where I really started to *like* the guy (check out "Hard Rain") ... He does an excellent job as an Air Force pilot ... John Travolta plays over-the-top as usual ... ummm, is anybody surprised by this after "Welcome Back Kotter" and "Saturday Night Fever"?  Howie Long?  Hey, he's a football player and sportscaster ... Bob Gunton is a bad guy here, much like his bad guy in "The Glimmer Man" ...
The film is typical John Woo fare ... lotsa slow-mo action scenes ("Hard Target" etc.) ... now there are a few technical errors ... and the B-3 bomber (that's not a typo) has room for a living room sofa in the cockpit ... the control stick in the B-3 is suitable for a midget ... the B-83 nuclear bombs do have the frangible impact nose represented in most drawings and pictures, but they're a little small compared to the statistics of real nukes (reported to be several thousand pounds) ... but the underground nuclear blast sequences were pretty good ...
Fortunately, Travolta's high-tech mercenary buddies are terribly inept, allowing Slater and his new park-ranger friend to overcome their terrible plan ... Nice cinematography in more than a few places ... and a bit of CGI because there are crashes and explosions galore ...
And there's some fun stuff ... George Costanza's (Seinfeld) boss, Kruger (Daniel von Bargen) is an Air Force General here ... French Stewart (3rd Rock from the Sun) is an Air Force infrared detection and imaging systems operator as "Frenchie" ... Slater brings in Samantha Mathis from his 1990 "Pump Up the Volume" ... Delroy Lindo ("Gone in 60 Seconds" 2000) turns in a good performance as the Air Force tough guy (his helicopter pilot needs a bit more flight training though) ... and Kurtwood Smith (Federation President "Star Trek VI") is the nervous Secretary of Defense ...
OK, it's not the nuclear thrillers that "Fail Safe" or "By Dawn's Early Light" are ... but it's a fun, action-packed movie ... don't take it too seriously and you might have some fun ...