"SLEEPERS" HAS TO BE ONE OF THE GREATEST MOVIES I'VE EVER SEEN IN MY LIFE! It is filled with so much emotion that will carry you for years to come. The plot could be a little offensive to some and rumors of the alleged pseudo story should not keep you from experiencing this magnificent masterpiece. 
This is a movie not to be missed! All characters are unique in their own way, but also connecting in their aspirations. The four young boys deliver a performance of innocense that make you want to reach in and give your life to them. When they grow old, the shattered innocense is still evident in their faces, demeanors, and even action. They have more determination to finally seek the revenge they so yearned for and not even arrogant revenge - sweet revenge. Revenge that no one I know would feel differently about. I guarantee the characters feelings will soon be transformed into your own. One of Brad Pitt's greatest movies; Jason Patrick's tender quality; Billy Crudup's first encounter with serious acting before "Almost Famous"; Ron Eldered is great with remaining inner turmoil; All four young stars are excellent also with one of Brad Renfro's best movies; Robert De Niro's talent never fails as the boy's priest trying to set their lives in the right direction; Also one of Minnie Drivers' gentle performances. The acting and musical direction connect to bring you scenes that are just plain - beautiful.
Barry Levinson creates such scenes to enliven the passion you never knew you had. The movie ends and begins with the four friends who were succumbed to sexual, physical, and verbal abuse winning a dance competition. Additionally, with some narraration that will catch your intuition with deliberate interest. Throught the movie, you follow the agony associated with losing the innocense that once made the value of your life. You follow Shakes, John, Tommy, and Michael through a journey of once achieving the one thing that can alleviate some pain of their experiences - revenge. 
I implore you to take the time to watch this movie and read the book (because it can even be much better than the movie if one can believe that) and i promise you won't miss out on life - you might gain realizations and insight into your own. 
HIGHLY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! Guaranteed to reveal inner emotions and connect with the characters on a level beyond your expectations. Read the book ... Watch the movie ... and it will remain one of your greates experiences ever. Guaranteed. GO NOW...I PROMISE!