The movie Mega Mind, by Tom McGrath, was one o the best animation movies of the year since Finding Nemo. It's an action, comedy, and silly yet a great animation that is worth the watch. As a Christian, talking about a secular movie, I would say that this movie is safe even for the younger ears in the family because they sugar code some inappropriate languages. The movie picked a perfect roll for the voice actors, the special effects in the animations, and a plot that keeps you interested through the whole movie.
The voice character's are all well known people who you can relate too when it comes to comedy. Will Ferrell was one of the voice actors and in fact he was playing the main character name Mega Mind. His voice fit perfectly for the character's personality. Will Ferrell had the voice of an evil genius during that role and with his comedian skills he had made the character flawless. A famous actor name Brad Pitt, who I have now see that he is more into comedy, decided to play the main hero of the story, Metro Man. At first in the story he had a little serious act for his role until you seen the whole movie. It had a good twist that will leave you laughing. Tina Fey, a well known comedian in Saturday Night Live, comes back from a retirement in SNL and surprises us by playing a role in Mega Mind, Roxanne. She played the typical girl character that all ways get kidnapped. The perfect part of her character is that she makes her character sarcastic and not like the woman that cries for help all the time, like in most super hero movies. In conclusion, these characters brought out the movie well, and of course the sub characters like Jonah Hill from "Get Him to Greek", and David Cross from "Alvin and the Chipmunks".
The special effects in the movie are something worth mentioning because it came out really well. The director, Tom McGrath, who was also know for Madagascar, made a perfect action sequence that even surpass The Incredible, in my opinion. Mega Mind action and special effects has brought something to the table, not even Superman, the movie, couldn't bring out to entertain most audiences. Although Mega Mind was suppose to bring out a "copy" of a Superman like storyline, it had made it to a story that will make you wish that was Superman's main story from the beginning. Mega Mind would have to be the best Villain / Hero of the year. The reason why I say this is because he just presented himself to the audience what a true genius he could be. You wouldn't find any bad guys that kids would love in a million years. One of the fiction character, played my Jonah Hill, name Tighten (Ironically not spelled as Titan). He was the character that shocked the audience. Tighten became someone or something you didn't expect to happen to him. With a nice twist, Tighten was the spice in the movie, the way he uses power and the special effect was just amazing. One aspect would be the obsession with Roxanne; he would do anything it takes to get her. The characteristic for Minion was very creative, the way they put him together. Minion, the side kick of Mega Mind, brings you back memories of the animation movie "Hercules". How Pegasus was with Hercules since born and been with him till the end, watching, and guiding him. That's how Minion but in an evil silly version. Voice actor David Cross, who was know for playing Dave's boss in "Alvin and the Chimp-monks", just made the character cute and very evil. He is just the perfect sick kick an evil villain can ask for, in a good way. Super Star Brad Pitt played the Former Hero of the story, or should I say Mega Mind's rival, Metro Man (Ironically name after the city they live in). Metro Man is what you would expect being Super man like. Seeing from the movie he is like imaging Super man giving up on all he has done just because he was tried of being a Super hero. It was nice to see that this character wasn't the main hero of the movie because it would have been too clich&eacute;. As I was saying, Metro Man was the character to boost up Mega Mind's appearance and appreciation  more then he was suppose to be and he made it happen. In conclusion, the special feature and the character background was just amazing put together.
If you were to watch any introduction of Super man movie you will see the semblance that Mega Mind uses. Mega Mind would be the satire version of Super Man the movie. But Brainiac would be the main character of the story. As a said before this plot would be like if everything goes wrong, bad guy wins and good guy loses. What I love about the plot is how Mega Mind has to change up his character since being a bad guy without a good guy made him nothing and lonely.
In conclusion, the story Mega Mind was an outstanding piece of comedy art that made it worth to watch, in my opinion. Having a well picked voice actors, neat special effects and an interesting plot uplifts the movie to a must watch with friends, a party, or with family. Any family can enjoy their favorite actor's voice, since they are so popular, without a doubt. Special effect will also surprise you and the audience because it feels so fresh. This story will keep you interested until the unfortunate ending of the movie. I would say that this movie is definite recommended.