How many times have we all gone to see a movie adaptation of a book and exited the theater with the words, "it was all right, but the book was better," on our lips?  Very few Hollywood writers and producers can ever make a movie script as good as a novel.  Not so with Lonesome Dove!  Never before in all my reading and viewing of fiction, have I laughed and cried so hard for a group of characters.  Although the screen play was not written by Larry mcMurtry, the author of the award-winning novel, the screen writer did a wonderful job in trimming down this epic novel into a movie script that captures the spirit of a beautifully crafted tale of friendship, adventure and love.  Everything from the music, to the cast, to the visuals make this a must-see for both fans of the book and for those who have never enjoyed westerns.  It is a tale of two ex Texas Rangers, Captain Augustus McCrae, (Robert Duvall)  and Captain Woodrow Call, (Tommy Lee Jones) who give up ranching in the town of Lonesome Dove, Texas, steal horses from a Mexican bandit and start out on a cattle drive for Montanna.  They take with them and encounter along the way, a vast assortment of characters who make the trip all the more enjoyable for the viewer.  Some notables among these are the renegade, Blue Duck, portrayed perfectly by Frederic Forrest, who brings this cruel villain to life straight from the pages.  Also, Clara Allen, palyed by Angellica Houston, who is the strong-willed old flame of Gus.  The two things that stand out the most for me in this movie are the wonderful musical score, composed by Basil Poledouris, and the depiction of the life-long friendship between Gus and Call.  Friendship has been the theme of countless stories, but seldom is it portrayed so vividly, without being overly sappy, as it is in a story.  I always come away from the movie feeling that friendships like that of Gus and Call are as easy to find today as a cattle drive.  Another outstanding quality of the book and movie is the feel of authenticity the writers and crew bring to it.  While certain aspects of the movie are a bit cliche, (Gus riding off to save the lady in distress), other aspects are very real, (the water moccasin episode and Jake's hanging).  These qualities, both real and fiction blended together, make Lonesome Dove a truly epic tale that can accurately be called an American classic.  Sometimes funny, sometimes heartbreaking and often unpredictable, it is a masterpiece that is worth watching at least once!