It comes in a groovy little tin with the European poster style on the top and inside has the booklet, a little ad for the video game and the dvd  itself.
The booklet claims to have "rare photos", but it's just  pictures from scenes throughout the movie that we've seen before- nothing  special, but has some good insights from the special effects guys and  Bruce.
Now for the DVD
I was really pleased with the extras- the  commentary was a lot of fun- I enjoyed it more than the first Evil Dead  special edition because Sam Raimi actually throws in a lot more tidbits  with Bruce and friends to back him up.  There were no long pauses, everyone  had something interesting to say and it's just a lot of fun listening to  them mock the dialogue and point out the mistakes.  Plus, there's only four  people on the commentary so no one is overwhelmed and we can hear everyone  talking- I think too many people on commentaries can be frustrating.  Also  find out what Kurt Russel's fav. line is from "Evil Dead 2" in a  quite hilarious memory Bruce brings up.
"The Gore The Merrier"  featurette was very cool- it's lengthy too so we get to see a lot of the  cool effects being made and used in the final product.  We also see Raimi,  Campbell and the rest of the crew clowning around and also a  ridiculous/funny little skit that the special effects team came up with-  about a baby that comes back from the dead for revenge.  The documentary  was shot with a crappy camera, but back in '86'87- home video cameras  sucked anyway so I wasn't surprised- it's fine though- just a little  grainy. 
The theatrical trailer was edited very well- I hadn't seen it  before and I was pretty impressed how spooky they made it.
The video game  preview is awesome- like a teaser trailer, but it's really neat- gotta see  it for yourself.
The bios only consist of Bruce and Raimi, but they're  better than most bios you find on dvds.
Photos- no big deal- some candid  shots.
Widescreen and full screen formats- sweet.  Love it when they have  both.
And...sound is great.  Overall, nearly poi-fect dvd- I just  would've liked some out-takes- cuz we know there was a lot of laughing  going on from the reminiscing we hear on the commentary.  
Buy it-  definately worth it- great menu too, pretty much everything is worth  mentioning!