Movies that play kids in leading roles opposite adults are typically funny.  Eddie Murphy = very funny.  Therefore, this movie should be FUNNY ... and it is!  If you don't laugh during this movie, then you must have had your funny bone surgically removed.  It is getting less and less surprising to see Eddie Murphy in family comedies (i.e. no bad language), and I find it refreshing.  Eddie is every bit as funny without the gutter humor as he is with it.  Two thumbs up for the new, family-friendly Eddie Murphy!  Murphy is a perfect choice for this film, and the half-pint supporting cast is every bit as funny as the funny man himself.
About the plot ... Murphy and his friend are ad execs, working on a cereal campaign that is destined to fail, although they don't see it coming.  Not surprisingly, they lose their jobs when the campaign goes sour.  Murphy lives in a beautiful house in the suburbs with his adorable son and wife, who is a stay-at-home Mom (a refreshingly functional family vs. today's norm).  Their son was supposed to be starting preschool at the elite Chapman School, where Angelica Huston is the pompous and cut-throat head mistress.  Chapman becomes too expensive for Murphy's family as he becomes a stay-at-home Dad while Mom goes off to work.  Having trouble finding a new job, he gets the bright idea to start a day care center ... Daddy Day Care.  He enlists the help of his partner from work, and eventually Steve Zahn as well, and starts his own day care in his house.  The kids that he babysits in addition to his own play off Murphy beautifully, and lend very funny antics to the film.  When Murphy's day care becomes successful, despite several pitfalls along the way, Huston attempts to derail Daddy Day Care in an attempt to squelch what she begrudgingly realizes is stiff competition.  At the pinnacle of Daddy Day Care's success, Murphy is offered his old job back.  He must make a choice between his previous wealthy, powerful position and his son's desire to keep Daddy Day Care open ... therein lies the essential "moral of the story."  This movie will make you laugh and leave you smiling whether you're 5 or 35 ... well worth the purchase.  In fact, I'd say that adults will enjoy this movie more than kids, but it is at least safe to watch with the kids.
In terms of the DVD itself ... The Special Edition (the only edition I've seen) contains both regular and widescreen on the same disc, which is always nice.  The extras on this DVD are great -- they give you an opportunity to watch these funny kids in real life, and to see how incredibly bright and talented they are at such a young age.  The featurette is impressive graphically, and kids will probably enjoy it, but I have no idea what it has to do with this movie.