This part of the review is for the veterans:
I have played every Wing  Commander game so far (including every add-on disc) and I can recommend  this movie to everyone, who  blew the Kilrathi across deep space, too.  Although the story takes place before the first Wing Commander game, it is  not that much of a problem that Chris Roberts mixed a few items from later  WC games into this movie (like the Snakeir battleship, Admiral Tolwyn or  the Skipper Missles). Okay, the special effects are better than Starship  Troopers or  even Star Wars Episode 1, but why was it necessary to change  the look of all the capital ships and fighters that much? The Tiger Claw  (why not Tiger's Claw???) does not look like the Bengal-class carrier to  me, but more like a battleship that  happens to have a few fighters on  board. Anyway, although some people might miss an actor resembling Colonel  Halcyon, J&uuml;rgen Prochnow and Tcheky Karyo are doing a good job as the good  guys (ever noticed that the Kilrathi ships were PINGING in order to find  the good guys? - "Das Boot" must be  around somewhere -  especially with all those torpedo battles during the movie). What is REALLY  fascinating about this movie is the soundtrack! Honestly, I have never EVER  heard anything better since Star Wars (especially "The Imperial  March" of "The Empire Strikes Back") or Dark Star. So, if  you know the games, and liked them, the movie is a DVD/VHS that is worth  being had. Enjoy!
This part of the review is for the rest of the  world:
Okay, okay! I know that even uninhabited asteroids would have been  better actors than the "young heros" of the movie. I know that  everyone, who does not know the games, does not understand the story. I  also know that some people might think that after hiring J&uuml;rgen Prochnow  (Das Boot) and Tcheky Karyo (Goldeneye), there was no cash left for writing  a good story or hiring more known actors (but that worked with Starship  Troopers!!).
But hey! This is a movie for the fans of the game! Chris  Roberts has put his dream on the screen and his efforts are worth it! This  movie isn't perfect, but for those, who like the topic, it is a good piece  of entertainment.