When I read the poorly written crybaby review Jeff Shannon used to inform potentially interested viewers I had to write my own review.

IF YOU WANT A REAL REVIEW READ MINE!

To start off the movie is far from dull. It's very clever, and very thrilling, with quite an interesting storyline. The first few scenes include intense explosions and a couple assassinations. The storyline is unlocked bit by bit throughout the movie and brings you into the lifestyle of an exceedingly apparent upper class club-goer who does a little robbery and/or terrorism in the efforts of anti-terrorism on the side. Blah blah blah. You get the picture; my point being it's an interesting movie through and through.

The hangup this Shannon guy has about Halle Berry's tits is enough to make you sick. I don't recall so well but maybe others do. What was it, maybe 5 seconds... One scene? 5 seconds of a little Barry [...] action people! Who really cares!? To say slightly pornographic is a total overstatement. I entirely fail to see any integrity in Jeff Shannon's review.

I definitely feel sorry for the women who have to put up with men who are afraid of [...]. I couldn't possibly care less if a movie has nudity in it or not but if a movie includes nudity I wont throw a fit about it. That's what the federal rating systems are for. 'Boohoo...' Yes we get it. Thanks Jeff, buddy ol' pal.

Anyway I think most nudity adds a bit of realism to a movie. Movies are not about the nudity but don't try telling me you can walk through some of the wildest private clubs without seeing some nudity. Snap out of your stupidity and wake up to the real world. If at the end of the movie you still think it sucked well then you still got to see a slightly exposed Halle Barry. Good for you. Try not to lose sleep over it.

It's a great movie and will have you guessing from beginning to end. Pay close attention to the script and maybe put to use at least half of your brain and by the end you'll have enjoyed yourself to a well portrayed and well written movie. I have no doubt you'll want to watch it again.

WAIT! I do have one complaint... Ahem... Ladies and gentleman Travolta does not act like he knows how to smoke or hold a cigar at all and his soul patch I could easily have done without. haha I had to say it. I love the long hair though! It worked great in Pulp Fiction. If you want, maybe take off a star but DON'T let it dissuade you from seeing the movie. It's a great movie! Travolta's soul patch I give 1 star, but the movie gets 5!

Sorry Jeff. I think you are in dire need of rewriting your review. I tried to hold back from saying anything too offensive or any defamatory remarks. I think the amazon review was of poor taste. Hey Amazon, hire me! I could run circles around this guy!