I stand second to no one in my high estimation of "East of Eden" as a film, James Dean as an actor, film icon, rebel, cult figure, and Elia Kazan for his directorial skills and Freudian,

Machiavellian, and often-cruel ability to manipulate the performances out of actors ideally cast because of his uncanny ability (up until late in his career, e.g., "The Last Tycoon")to suss out their underlying emotional similarities with the characters they were to portray.

In this case, Dean (who lost his beloved mother to breast cancer when he was 9 and was left with an emotionally distant father, who abandoned him to be raised by his grandparents) believed, like Cal Trask, that his mother went away because he was intrinsically bad--a trauma that left a hole in his psyche for all his brief 24 years on this planet (and that Kazan would exploit with typical mercenary zeal).

I've long felt that "Forever James Dean" was one of the better Dean documentaries, and I was glad it was included so i could replace my grainy video with this superior DVD version.

But I'm astounded at what is left out of the bonus CD. I think that everything included in the second DVD is of essential interest to any serious Dean admirer. And it's the first time I've ever seen the screen test between Dean and Richard Davalos.

But how many more years will it be before we get to see his much-written-about screen test with Paul Newman in its entirety? I've read portions of their dialogue in the various Dean biographies. I saw a snippet of it in A&E's perfunctory biography of Dean. Last night, I Netflixed "James Dean: Forever Young," narrated by Martin Sheen. It covers virtually all the bases when it comes to showing clips (many unseen for years) from Dean's fairly substantial body of television work. It also shows more of the Dean/Newman screen test than I've ever seen before, and it's audio/visual quality is pristine (so the footage still exists).

It's a minor surprise to see the older, but-not-inexperienced Newman come across as stiff, slightly nervous, eager to be liked, and defensive while attempting to hold his own. Dean, who steals the scene with ease, flips what appears to be a switchblade, and ad libs effortlessly, while Newman struggles and utters banalities. This is good, solid, revealing footage.

The documentary also shows part of a test Dean did with Joanne Woodward for Eden, and part of a scene in which Cal climbs into Abra's bedroom at night while she's in bed, which was censored as "too risque." Why is none of this fascinating, essential material included on the bonus DVD--uncut and in its entirety? What a rare, precious gift that would have been to those of us who've only read about these rarefied treats.

How many more years will we have to wait before another

"anniversary edition" is unveiled to surpass this release and wring more money out of the Dean mystique? Why must these hidden gems be available only to film scholars?

None of this diminishes the significance of East of Eden. And I do recommend this DVD. But to serious Dean fans who know about the extraordinary footage that remains inexplicably archived--and who felt that the DVD format was gonna make it happen--this can't help but be an unnecessary letdown.