Reality check: Getting rid of Walmart will not solve anything.

Things will get much MUCH worse for quite a long time before they start to get better. Does anyone have the patience or the selflessness to make life harder on themselves and their loved ones? Are people willing to make their families starve or eat less for several years to bring back small businesses where they would have to pay a higher price for something that isn't worth paying more for? And how long will it take for jobs to come back? - to fill up the jobs lost by all the Walmarts that were shut down. How long will it take for most Americans to be employed again? How long will it take for things to get noticeably better?

Too long.

And it would be even harder if other businesses similar to Walmart were shut down. Home Depot maybe. Definitely McDonalds.

It's always darkest before the dawn. Maybe everything will improve, but we're already in a recession/depression. Who is really willing to make a sacrifice on a bet? Will things truly get better? There's no promise of this.

Places like Walmart allow families that can hardly pay for rent, much less clothes and food, to make some type of living. It allows them to keep their children from starving. It allows them to occasionally give their children a gift - something to brighten their otherwise dark childhood. For some people, it's a highER cost to stop going to Walmart.

Side Note: What I hate about reviewers here is that people who give this movie 1 or 2 stars are accused of being "paid by Walmart" to write in a good word. That's not always the case. This movie was incredibly biased. Sure, the pros are scary to list because most people know them and it might be overly contradicting to their objective. But take any college English course that teaches argument and persuasion. You're supposed to present both sides of the argument. Typically those who don't do not have a found argument. Usually there are a lot of holes in their position that they're afraid of their audience discovering.

I gave this movie 2 stars because "I didn't like it."  Why? I don't like people shoving a point down my throat. You know what I mean. Like when overly religious people shove their point down my throat and insist that I will burn in hell if I don't do what they say. Yep. This was a close equivalent - to me at least.

And before anyone suggests it - I'm not a Walmart employee and I don't get any benefit from giving this movie a low rating.