I've gotten to the point at which there are certain things that I would like to be explained to me with Arnold Schwarzenegger in his films.  I am confused by the way that he looks.  He is almost always a policeman or an ex-policeman, a soldier or an ex-soldier (green beret or commando or  special forces or "black ops" whatever that is) - twice he was a  research scientist, twice a bodyguard or something, twice an ordinary  father, and once he was jungle boy that had a twisted little dwarf as his  brother.  Twice, of course, he was a robot and that actually makes sense  with how he looks, robots can look and sound as ridiculous as they want to  (Robin Williams has now been a robot: case closed), the same goes with the  two times he was a pre-Christian barbarian.  But more often than not, Arnie  is a human being that happens to move and look like a pre-kiln slab of  river clay.  There is never an explanation as to why he sounds as he does  nor of how he finds the three or four hours a day to work out.  Just once  I'd like an explanation of how a boy raised in New York, third generation  Irish cop, would sound like he just rolled down a mountainside after  bugling through a giant horn.
End of Days is that most unforgivable of films.  It is the kind of  film that urges us to leave our brains at the door and hold on for the ride  - to remember when we were eight years old again.  In other words, it asks  us to be mentally challenged, emotionally immature, and so beaten by the  onward marching tide of culture that we are wholly incapable of not liking  something that cost 100 million dollars.  How Schwarzenegger remains a top  box office draw is an uneasy combination of the vast foreign box office  that think that Arnold somehow embodies capitalism (heck, he does!), and  the gleaming hope for a third installment in the Terminator series.  It  certainly can't be for such triumphs as Jingle All the Way, Eraser, Batman  &amp; Robin, Junior and Last Action Hero.  
At its best, End of Days  joyfully invites heckling and flabbergasted looks - at its worst, End of  Days is almost as aggressively condesending as Phantom Menace.  Still and  all, when excretia such as this earns its studio a tidy profit and truly  wonderful films like Wonder Boys spends a quick two month run at the  multi-plex, we deserve what we get.