Chushingura is not for the casual viewer of Japanese film. Directed by Inagaki (who did the Samurai Trilogy aka Musashi), the film is not only slow-paced but almost impenetrably dense... and neither of those adjectives is a complaint. The original bunraku (puppet) and Kabuki versions are 8 hours long, I think, and Inagaki tries to condense that into 3.5 hours. I'm not sure he succeeds, and even if he did, Western audiences are at a huge disadvantage, because the story is as familiar to Japanese audiences as the Nativity is to the average Westerner, so a few sentences can reference an entire sequence of events.

For Westerners, the other problem will be that the focus is on the story, at the expense of individual characters. Kurosawa is much more Western in his characterizations. We get a strong sense of the individual in his films, whether it's Sanjuro (Mifune's ronin in Yojimbo) or a rather silly adolescent would-be "gambler" with about two minutes on screen. In Chushingura, we are overwhelmed with unfamiliar actors playing characters who mean almost nothing to us, characters with inner lives we can only presume. There is a point at the end where you will realize that what you thought was one love story was in fact two, involving four different people with a more than casual resemblance to each other. A major character (Sampei) appears almost as a background figure four or five times before we grasp his importance. Another major character simply disappears from the plot, his story unfinished. Toshiro Mifune's role is a source of total puzzlement until he takes a unique role in the last battle.

That said, the movie is a visual delight. The colors are breathtaking; the rendering of feudal Japanese values is lucid, and the climactic battle has some of the best swordplay I've ever seen. A nameless samurai appears once in the film, for about five minutes of fighting that suggests he may have been the equal of the incomparable Musashi. Like The Samurai Trilogy (and the Yoshikawa novel it's based on), this film is uncompromisingly Japanese. It is not a great film, but a very good one, and a unique experience.