This review contains details about most of the characters and some of the stuff they do in the movie,  However it does not give away any huge plot sequences or give away anything you couldn't figure out by watching a preview of the movie or reading the bio about it.  However if you do not wish to know about the characters in this movie then i would not read this review.

I have seen this movie more times then i really should have.  I usually watch it every month or 2, sometimes even more if i am with my other friend who loves this movie.

The movie starts out with Dade Murphy(zerocool/crash overide) Getting in trouble for crashing 1508 computers including wallstreet.  He is then banned from using or owning a computer and touch tone phone till his 18th birthday, i know harsh right?  He is then forced to move with his mom to new york during his senior year of high school.  Which his mom so graciously buys him a computer for his 18th birthday.

So right away he gets back into hacking again.  The movie continues to tell Dade Murphys story while introducing some new hacking buddys into his world.  He first new friend comes by the sorts of Phantom Phreak, who is a little eccentric so to speak.  He wears a lot of flashy clothes including a leopard print sweater, Even to this day i always wonder if his character was suppose to be gay or not, they never really go into detail about it, and to me it wasn't a big deal either way.

Then we meet joey, who is sort of a momma's boy and is new to hacking and is trying to make a name for himself.  He doesn't have a handle yet, and never gets one before the movie is over.  He is the one who sets up the story though with his hack that changes all of the other characters lives.

Cereal killer is the third friend you meet, played by the hilarious Matthew Lillard one of my 2 favorite characters in this movie.  His character is very energetic and a little crazy.  One of my favorite scenes is when he is at cyberdelia selling his cds of artist who asphyxiated on their own vomit.  He ensures to tell them that they can not get this album in stores.

Then their is my favorite character in the movie, who actually doesn't have the biggest part in it, but his character is still my favorite.  His name is paul cook, known as Lord Nikon.  He is kind of the more mellow character who thinks things through.  He also lives on his own, so they spend a lot of time at his apartment.  Lord Nikon has a photographic memory so he can recall anything he has seen with relative ease.  He just had one of the cooler persona's in the group, which is why i liked his character better then the others.

Acid burn is a character that you actually meets before joey and cereal, but he does not befriend her till later in the movie.  Dade has sort of a crush on Acid burn even though she tricks him in the beginning of the movie thanks to her current bf's advice.  Dade and Acid burn get involved in a hack off to prove who is the better hacker and make a bet accordingly.  If Dade wins, Kate must go on a date with him, and if Acid burn wins, he must become her slave, and not in the good way.  He will be forced to do data work for her, like crack copies and the such.

Their mission is to get back at Richard gill who is the one in charge of the Secret service team assigned to the case of Joey's hack against Ellingson Mineral Company.

Then their is The Plague (Eugene Belford) who is the reason they are all in this mess, i don't want to give to much away, so i will just say he is the hacker for Ellingson, who is actually framing the other hackers because they found out about his plot to steal money from Ellingson.

Anyways both the hacker groups get into a war so to speak and only one of them can be victorious in the end.

This movie is more then your basic hacking movie, sure it is not realistic, but if it was, it would be very boring.  Imagine watching a documentary about hacking, how entertaining would that be?  This movie is filled with some corniness and is not for everyone.  But if you enjoy entertaining movies with enjoyable and likeable characters this is definitely the movie for you.  It is more character driven then story driven so just remember that.  The locations in the movie are quite interesting as well.  I would have loved to live next to a place like the cyberdelia.  It looked like it would be a very fun place to hang out at with your friends.