The pilot opens almost mid-story it seems, acclimating you to the characters and their interpersonal dysfunctions subtlety and sparingly.  The richness and vibrancy of the characters makes it "ok" that you don't get all the nitty-gritty details of why and when and how things started- you feel as if you know these people and will continue to learn about their why's, when's and how's as the "plot thickens" in season 2.

A fascinating exploration of suburban life- so common, easily identified with and yet totally beneath the surface. Of course it is dramatized, but after living in OC for over 10 years I can testify to the validity. The premise of this show is a terrific commentary on what suburbia has done to humanity as people try to make sure that all their "Little Boxes" stay the same. Our HOA recently sent letters to residents who were unfortunate enough to have brown spots in their lawns. I live in the desert and it's been unseasonably hot across the nation- but the semblance of normalcy must be protected in suburbia.  They may want to worry about the growth patterns of a different type of grass in our quiet little neighborhood.

I admire the main character, Nancy, who judges none and accepts tragedy and criticism both with grace and dignity. When a fellow mom and friend attacks her parenting by citing a book on parenting she is not baited by the comment, but retorts with an amusing grin and wryly delivered, "Wow, Celia. (effective pause) I didn't know you read books." The timing and rapport between these two characters is pure magic-the steel magnolias of the "soccer mom" set.

She is a real person in a real world, as plastic as it may seem- and she makes irrational, emotional decisions; she acts impulsively and impetuously, balanced with a carefully controlled, tender-hearted, frailty which makes her all the more likable. She displays the civility so rarely seen in our barely civilized civilization, while weathering the social slings of the socialites in her society.

The supporting cast of characters provide a rich and intricate skein to weave throughout the threads of storyline, some are a skosh stereotypical but in a way that works- making them familiar. Like real people we know, all of Nancy's "people" are imperfect and interesting - making it easier to connect the dots between the (probably purposely) missing why's, when's and how's.

A must see for the open minded. Plus the special features are more interesting than most TV series' DVDs.