I really look forward to the Blu-Ray Release of Burton's Dark Shadows as it sounds like there are nine additional segments to the movie that can be watched individually or as part of an expanded feature film...if I understand correctly. For sure there is a fairly fast, fun paced DARK yet FUNNY movie.

To begin with...if you are a traditional vampire purist...you WILL be aggravated that Barnabas never encounters a Crucifix, never disappears on demand or turns into a bat nor is required to sleep in his coffin by day.

The Burton "take" on the Collins family yields Elizabeth Collins Stoddard, her brother Roger Collins, her daughter Carolyn, his son David, Dr Julia Hoffman, Willie Loomis, Sarah Johnson and of course Barnabas Collins. "Victoria Winters" and Angelique Bouchard as the main cast.

The flick is a nice tight jaunt of around 113 minutes and is very well paced. Most of the material seen on the movie trailers are quickly whisked by in the film's first ten to fifteen minutes. The story of the Barnabas' original time period from 1752 thru 1776 is recounted swiftly including his being cursed (for rejecting Angelique) and buried alive by the town's people (for being a monster). Barnabas' parents Joshua and Naomi are shown so briefly that all we remember is Joshua's declaration that "family is only the true wealth" while he builds a formidable fortune (using the wealth he built up in Liverpool) by building the seaport town of Collinsport and transforming it into a great fishery/sea port.

Light humor abounds throughout the flick...most of it pertaining to Barnabas trying to `ingest" and "adjust to" this great new age of 1972 after being released from his chained coffin after a construction crew literally bangs into his coffin. Barnabas is released. The construction crew do not live to tell about their discovery as Barnabas' nutrient deprived body demands a quick and furious feast.

After an encounter with "Mephistopheles", "Lucifer" and the towns people...Barnabas finally makes his way to Collinwood. He is shocked to discover the dilapidated condition that Collinwood is in and immediately seeks out the matriarch for some answers. He makes it clear to the matriarch that he's the original Barnabas Collins cursed for two centuries. She thinks he's an intruder looking for money and blood until he shows her the Family Wealth safely hidden in the lowest secret passages of the mansion. She, then, realizes that Barnabas is the genuine item and she introduces him to the family the next morning at breakfast but keeps his secret intact.

Angelique, meanwhile, has spent two centuries being a rival to the Collins family industry and has driven them to almost poverty levels. Angelique subsequently learns of Barnabas being released from his "life imprisonment" and throws all her witchery to wage war against Barnabas and the Collins family..

During the remaining hour and change of the film...we are treated to the fact that the Collins family members as well as the new governess, "Victoria Winters" each have secrets that are brought to light during the course of the film.

Dr Hoffman discovers that Barnabas is a vampire and promises to cure him as Barnabas is soon walking out in the light of day albeit that he appears somewhat like Michael Jackson with an umbrella.

In the midst of this drama...Barnabas wants to gain the favor of the townsfolk by throwing a "happening".  According to Carolyn...the "happening" needs lots of booze and a superstar singer to "rock" the town as she suggests Alice Cooper.  Barnabas promises enough booze to fill a schooner and declares "she", Alice Cooper, will be the guest of the Collins Family.  The Collinsport "happening" is a success.

As the film drives toward it's climax...Barnabas and the Collins family steadily move toward their final battle with Angelique which contains a surprise or two.

I found the ending (unlike most movie reviewers) quite satisfying after Burton throws everything but the kitchen sink into the final conflict. Unlike many reviewers I did not see a strong indication for a sequel. I don't expect one.

After all is said and done...I loved Tim Burton's "Dark Shadows" for being uniquely it's own film not borrowing from the two Dan Curtis films of the 1970s. The visuals do overshadow the script....but we are having so much fun watching all the dysfunctional members of the family fighting for the Collins' true core value that "family is the only true wealth"...that we don't see any reason to criticize the script's shortcomings because it's so darn much fun.