Contrary to what the prior reviewer said this documentary is one of the best documentations of working class struggle in the United States. What this film portrays is the inner workings of the way workers and their families become conscious and weary of exploitive practices of the company, and the epiphanies that occur in order to overcome these malpractices. In that function this film is a masterpiece, it won an oscar rightly so because its impact on the viewer is so earth shattering.

The movie begins by showing the absolute impoverished lives of the mine workers who are virtually in feudal bondage to company tenement housing with no paved roads,running water, or electricity. Through a series of betrayals both from the company,the working class(scabs), AND THE UNION, the workers experience many cathartic moments in their campaign for material relief,rights and dignity. Some of these epiphanies are difficult to understand if you're not coming from the perspective of a highly impoverished industrial laborer, and include the rationalization of violence in defense of maintaining the strike and defying the declarations of the union.

Yes this is a biased documentary, the very concept of a documentary chooses to leave the comfort of neutrality and take a position, to choose a subject as a protagonist against an antagonist. You would find yourself very bored if you had to watch a two hour movie about how 'objectively everyone is right in their view, all we can do is observe and hope we just all get along', that's just NOT how the world works. Imagine trying to watch a movie about the Auschwitz rationalized on both sides, history would occur on film as it did in nazi germany, as a necessary process for the 'Vaterland', a crime to ignore for the sake the the majority. Now fortunately documentaries take the side of the oppressed prisoners most of the time, and we can see through this subjective view how insidious and evil these crimes were*. If we put this in perspective, a film that objectively just interviewed, got the rational view points and had some omnipotent view of the miners strike would in-fact only reinforce the reality as it occurred then,'it's unfortunate that all these accidents occur in the mines but the country needs coal more than you need you lungs,your family, or your life. Therefore, in the name of progress scabs will work your job and hopefully these inconvenient battles can stop, hope you understand you de-evolved luddite bum!'. Of course, this reality is a basic untruth and it was forcefully destroyed by the collective action of the UMWA vis-a-vis an enormous internal pitched revolt in the rank-and-file and the creation of this movie.

If you are totally sympathetic to scabs and exploitive managers, this movie will just upset you and make you feel hatred or indifference. If you want to see a documentary about how scabs are just trying to make living and companies provide ample amount of services or money to their workers watch the news, but if the contradiction of working people turning on each other perplexes you,that the only formal institutions the working class has to defend it are paradoxically controlled by company men, this documentary will show you the only means the impoverished have to combat it:their solidarity,their bodies,sticks, and stones.

(*note: It is because of the action of the allies that this reality and untruth were defeated that a documentary can expose the concetration detainees plight)