The yuletide season always brings a handful of holiday-themed releases, but most of them are pure humbug. It's only every five years or so that a true holiday classic comes along. Elf, from actor/director Jon Favreau ("Swingers"), tries to buck that trend by dressing Will Ferrell in tights and putting his comic skills to the test.

Ferrell plays Buddy, a human who grew up among Santa's elves. When he was a baby, he snuck into Santa's bag on Christmas Eve and wasn't discovered until Santa was back at the North Pole. Papa Elf (Bob Newhart) "adopted" Buddy and raised him. But now, Buddy is sticking out like a sore thumb within the elf community because of his ungainly size, unable to perform classic elf functions like toy building.

Buddy decides the answer to his problems is to seek out his human father Walter (James Caan) in New York City. Walter is the stereotypical big-business prick, and initially wants nothing to do with his elf-son freak. That leaves Buddy to inadvertently score a job at a department store, which leads to a romance with fellow store employee Jovie (Zooey Deschanel) and much hilarity when Buddy prepares for a visit from "Santa," thinking the real deal is on the way. When he sees that the store-hired Santa is actually an imposter, hilarious havoc ensues.

Walter slowly starts to warm to Buddy, who befriends his wife (Mary Steenburgen) and neglected son (Daniel Tay). But as Buddy becomes an increasingly disruptive presence at Walter's workplace, the fragile new family bond is threatened. Things comes to a head on Christmas Eve, naturally, as Santa begins his toy-delivering run and Walter desperately tries to make an 11th hour book sale.

Director Favreau and his crew deserve props for their work in creating the elf community. By using forced perspective and some cool animation techniques, they do a great job of building a unique world that captures the feel of the classic "Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer" and "Frosty The Snowman" animated holiday specials.

The screenplay, by newcomer David Berenbaum, is best when it places Ferrell in inventive fish-out-of-water scenarios. The story does stoop to formulaic scenarios from time-to-time, but it's a little more forgivable in this instance, since we're talking about a Christmas movie. The cast is also a mixed bag. Former Academy Award nominees Caan and Steenburgen are largely wasted in thankless roles, but Newhart and Deschanel make the most of theirs.

Fortunately, when the film threatens to get stuck in syrupy cliche, the wacky Ferrell comes to the rescue. He pulls out all the stops in an off-the-wall comedic performance that will have you in stitches. From wild slapstick to nuanced facial expressions, this is pure comedic genius at work.

It remains to be seen whether "Elf" becomes a new holiday classic, but thanks to Ferrell, it's definitely no lump of coal. It's a great way to have some holiday fun and raise your Christmas spirits.