I enjoyed this film so much I later bought a copy of the video and the soundtrack. The animation is superb -- I love the way they have Spirit rearing while the rest of the herd gallops swiftly past him, and the wind blows his hair about in a very realistic way. The music is terrific, and the horses move and sound like real horses. This is a great film to watch if you enjoy seeing pictures of beautiful wild horses running free in green meadows. The opening scene, where you follow the flight of an eagle through the American west -- is breathtaking.
Spirit's story is riveting and heart-warming -- his saga keeps you on the edge of your seat until the very end of the movie. One of the saddest scenes is when he's captured by the cowboys who turn him over to an army general (the voice, oddly enough, belongs to the same guy who played the gentle farmer in "Babe.") The general treats Spirit cruelly by depriving him of food and water for three days in the hot sun, hoping to break his spirit, which he fails to do. But then Spirit escapes with the help of a new friend, Little Creek, a kind and considerate Indian brave. Little Creek's horse, Rain is a spirited and charming paint mare. At first she and Spirit have a clash of wills, but later they develop a strong bond. Spirit is kidnapped again during an army raid on the Indian camp, but he escapes and meets up with Little Creek, and they return together to what is left of the camp. I love the ending of the film, when Spirit and Rain run back to Spirit's herd and are standing together on top of a hill with the wind blowing their hair.
Delightful as the film is, however, there is a note of warning: The horses in this film do not talk, but communicate by neighing, snorting and whinnying. If listening to these natural horse sounds for an hour or so drives you crazy, you might want to steer clear of this film. I've spent a lot of time around horses, so I know what these various sounds mean, but other people might not. However, I think it's an unusual -- and refreshing -- approach to an animated film.
This is one incredible movie! Definitely five stars!