Allow me to give you some advice on how to watch these three films. I've read the trilogy of books and I have watched all three of these films several times.

The first thing to understand is the first movie is its own story arc. It is fitting that it has a different director than the second two movies. This is because the second two movies themselves are a complete story arc in themselves in an important way. The first movie is said to be a little bit more different than the book than the other two which the second director handled in a little bit more of a literal way. Again, this suits the material. The first movie is a methodical police procedural getting to the heart of darkness  found in a corrupt soul. The second two movies reflect two movements that belong together in one symphony.  The first movement is an action adventure in which Lisbeth tracks down a mystery in the world and in herself and the second movement is her subsequent court trial - a trial that arises from  the circumstances that took place in the beginning of the  second film.

I think the first film really stands alone on its own feet. The second two films really should be watched one after another.  Watching the third film makes little dramatic or narrative sense if you come into it cold.  I introduced the series to my friends by playing the first movie. And then after they liked that, we agreed to get together on a Saturday and Sunday night to watch the second and third movie later on.

All three films were originally a good deal longer and were a miniseries on Swedish TV. But this is a great set and all three together tell as much of the story of this hypnotically repellent yet irresistible girl, (no, woman).

The first film is a little like what Hannibal Lecter would've looked like in real life, not pumped up into a fantasy how ever amazing. The second film is like a Socialist Chuck Norris going after the bad guys. And the third movie is like John le Carre taking a hand that writing a Gresham novel. Enjoy. (Have you ever heard of Red Riding?)