Cary Scott is an attractive widow whose college age children have little need of their mother as they pursue new lives for themselves. Cary has a comfortable life with her friends and no serious thoughts of romance. While she is prepairng a lunch for herself and her best friend Sara, played by Agnes Moorehead, Sara shows up and apologizes explaining that she cannot stay.

Sara only dropped by to return some dishes that Cary had loaned her. Cary takes the dishes in their box as Sara drives away and then Ron Kirby, played by Rock Hudson, who has been almost invisible until this point, offers to carry the heavy box inside. Ron is the gardener and is seldom noticed by Cary who is not even aware of his name or why he is her gardener. Her late husband always managed these details. The lunch is alfresco and Cary asks if Ron will join her as there is more than enough food. They have noticed each other by now and in the polite conversation that follows she learns that he is more than just a gardener but is also erudite about life in general as well as botany. He explains that unknown to her a certain beautiful tree on her property is regarded in China as a symbol of love in the house as it cannot flourish without it. Later at a party at her friend Sara's house, Cary is hit upon by a boorish longtime acquaintance. She is escorted home by a longtime friend of her late husband who surprises her by suggesting the possibilty of marriage. When Ron shows up another day and asks if Cary would like to meet some of his friends she agrees. Cary is really falling in love with Ron but the age difference makes her pause because it is too unconventional. She likes Ron's friends but she likes hers as well. Also there are her children and the town is small enough to cause a lot problems with its gossip. It does. The heroine and the hero work to overcome their problems.

The story moves forward with a nice logic. This is such a beautifully realized film in every way. The actors have been carefully chosen for their parts from the stars to the smaller roles. Some wonderful artists are used. The tall and beautiful Jacqueline de Wit should be cited for her performance as Mona, the town gossip. It is nice to see the lovely Virginia Grey in color. The use of color in this film must have caused gasps of appreciation at its initial showings in theaters. There is a lot to be grateful for on this Criterion release. There is an hour of excerpts from a BBC documentary on Douglas Sirk as well as other interesting bonuses.