Years ago, Ebert reviewed a movie called "North." He started his review by writing, "I hated this movie. Hated, hated, hated it."  At the time, I thought this was cruel, and I had seen "North," too.  "North" was a bad movie, but it wasn't that bad. But compared to "Epic Movie," "North" is a cinematic masterpiece.

Now I like even dopey, tasteless parodies, like "Not Another Teen Movie," and the Austin Power trilogy. I don't even mind the occasional fart joke, if there's enough clever humor to compensate.  But this movie.  No one laughed in the theater I was in, and I didn't blame them.  It's hard to laugh if nothing's in the least bit funny. I myself snickered once or twice but only because I wanted to justify paying my eight bucks. After it was over, I fought the urge to stay and physically restrain the next hapless audience.  Usually, if I hate a movie, I just figure that people have different tastes, however, I could not seriously see anyone enjoying this movie.

"Epic Movie" takes off many recent blockbusters including "Narnia," Nachos Libre," "Pirates of the Caribbean," "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory," "Harry Potter," "Superman," and "The Da Vinci Code." Four (adult) orphans get golden tickets to tour a chocolate factory, then they wind up in Narnia where they must fight the White Bitch. Get it? The White Bitch! Is that funny or what? When I was in grade school we used to call people we didn't like "a witch with a B" and we thought we were hysterical. Jennifer Coolidge plays the witch, and she gets called "Stifler's Mom."  That's sure to make your sides ache.

Other parts you may cringe at include a guy drinking from a "chocolate" river, a rapping pirate, a horny lion, a middle-aged Harry Potter with a visibly pregnant Hermione and - whoops, I'm totally ruining it for you. I'll just add that many characters break into song and dance, which is nowhere as entertaining as it may sound.  You may enjoy playing Spot the Reference, but the novelty quickly wears off.  Organize your sock drawer, pick lint off the rug, clean the cat's litterbox - all are far more entertaining options than sitting through "Epic Movie."