CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE is one of those movies that begs to be seen a number of times to be fully appreciated.  Even if the story were absolute garbage -- it isn't -- the visuals alone captivate and entertain on a grand scale.  Val Lewton, who made a mark in the horror genre by creating moody and atmospheric thrillers, does it again here, thanks in no small part, no doubt, to co-director Robert Wise's helming (Gunther von Fritsch shares directing credits).  Seldom is light and shadow used this effectively in film.  New students of cinema should study this picture in order to learn to create truly magical and uneasy moments simply through the use of light and shadow.
I hadn't watched this movie in a while but I just wrapped up another screening on a dark and gloomy fall evening here in New England.  The film is set in Tarrytown and it truly captures the moody atmosphere of its location through a variety of seasons.
More important, CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE succeeds in capturing childhood on celluloid.  It is the story of a lonely and misunderstood little girl whose biggest crime, it seems, is having an overly imaginative soul.  Enter the stunning Simone Simon as ethereal companion to the child.  I think this film succeeds so well because it seldom drifts far from the point of view of the child and the emotions that are running through her system:  loneliness, isolation, insecurity, the first realizations that sometimes "life just even fair" (she gets punished for telling the truth) and other childhood themes are explored here, and very effectively translated via the talents of Ann Carter.
Producer Val Lewton grudgingly agreed to the title if RKO allowed him the opportunity to do a follow-up to his successful CAT PEOPLE.  He refused to further compromise his principles, however, especially when it came to the story.  It's really too bad that this beautiful fantasy isn't known by another title.  I'm sure if it were called just about anything other than CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE, it would by known by a much greater audience.