I've watched the English Patient more than a couple of times and it just never ceases to amaze me. This enchanting film requires the viewer's total concentration as it engulfs the viewer in a whirlwind of culturual / sensual experiences spanning across the deserts in pre-war Egypt and in an ancient monastery in the Tuscan countryside.
I disagree with reviewers' attempt to rule out the movie merely based on morality issues. Adultery is wrong and there's no doubt about it. The story, however, did not "glorify" adultery. We are human and we are all constantly tempted to give in to guilty pleasures. In the end, we are told of the destruction the adulterers brought on to themselves and also to those around them. It IS unfair; but whoever thought that life is fair is naive (or I would go as far as to say, foolish).
Some may find it hard to relate to Fienne's charater, Count Almasy. Yes, he indeed is aloof and he knows he is "rusty with social graces". He is a self-centered, arrogant but cultured polymath who knows lyrics to every song ever written and is fluent in many languages. He is a man of few words (and few adjectives) and may not be immediately likeable to some. Nevertheless, I am amazed that some reviewers find the romance between Almasy and Katharine (beautifully portrayed by Kristin Scott Thomas) abrupt and "seemed to come from nowhere". To me, the underlying sexual tension between them is blatant. BLATANT.
When Katharine recited the story about Gyges from the Histories by Herodytus in the camp, you know Almasy was hooked. What did Almasy bring to the expedition other than the only one book by Herodotus? And from Katharine's (ahem... Mrs. Clifton) perspective, she knew she liked him (remember the scene where she offered Almasy her paintings to paste in his book?) and her fate was sealed when they were trapped in the car amidst a sandstorm. "Let me tell you about winds..." Katharine swooned as Almasy whispered the words in her ears. Almasy invoked in her a greater sensitivity to music and arts. But what about Geoffrey, her husband? Well, let's put it that way - when they were taking turns to perform in the tent where Katharine recited the Herodotus, Geoffrey sang this stupid song about bananas and potatos. It's easy to see how Almasy aroused Katharine's desires for him - it's all in the brain (and whoever claims it's just lust between them must watch this movie again). Geoffrey has so little to offer in anything remotely intellectual. Don't get me wrong, Katharine does love her husband, albeit in her own rather rational way. Sadly, a vow is a vow and it is not meant to be broken. Geoffrey has every right to be angry and his plans to kill Almasy is instinctively understandable.
I find Almasy pitiful - When he lost his usual reserved self in the dinner party and made a fool of himself, it is clear how consuming and destructive passion could be. Everything fell apart when they failed to restrain themselves, for "the heart is an organ of fire" and they are but two mortal humans.
The music Yared composed for the movie was splendid. The lush, heavy orchestral arrangement entwined with Hungarian folklore was very appropriate and demonstrative of the tempestuous and complex affair between Almasy and Katharine. On the other hand, piano excerpts from the pristine Goldenburg variations summed up the essence of Hana's affair with Kip, which is feelings of yearning and longing in its purest and simplest form. The use of a folklore of ambiguous origin (it's not until middle of the movie that we know it is Hungarian) greatly enhances the mysterious tone that envelops the entire movie.
The movie is a feast to the senses. I obviously skipped a lot of important twists and plots, such as the story of the vengeful thief Caravaggio (brilliantly played by Dafoe), and failed to elaborate more on the romance between the selfless kindred spirits, Hana and Kip. I lack the vocabulty to describe how I feel about the movie but it really is a timeless classic. I agree that the story / picture has its flaws (and so are the doomed lovers); yet this movie is not to be missed. It indulges you in dreams all day...
Apart from the spectacular cinematography brought by John Seale, the movie has a lot more to offer. It addresses issues of fidelity, identity and nationalism. The implied theme suggesting we're all citizens of the world is reminiscent of the theme in Casablanca. In some bizarre ways, Almasy is not totally unlike Rick in Casablanca, for they both refuse to be confined by bounaries set by the world and they do not give in to bureaucracy. The only difference is - Rick is older and wiser. &lt;sigh>
So - with a superbly clever and sensual movie like this (completed with beautiful swing tunes like "Cheek to cheek" and "Where or when"), who could ask for anything more?