Although "The Beach" didn't wasn't too successful at the box office this past winter, true movie fans are encouraged to check "The Beach" out as it hits DVD.  While many moviegoers avoided this film because they  aren't big DiCaprio fans, the truth is that whether or not one loves him,  one of the main reason to see this film is because of DiCaprio. Whether one  is a Leonardo DiCaprio fan or not, DiCaprio and director Danny Boyle bring  the film based on the best-selling book to life with excellent  cinematography and astounding acting. This film alone proves DiCaprio isn't  just another pretty boy in Hollywood and actually is one of the most  talented young actors around today.  The film's cinematography is yet  another reason that makes the film so engaging. While the breathtaking  beach scenes are much more powerful on the big screen, the scenery still  engages viewers on the television and gives everyone hope that paradise  does exist. One scene though, in which DiCaprio becomes a video game  character fighting for survival in the woods, is even more brilliant and  realistic on the television though, since people usually play their  Nintendos and Sega Dreamcast Systems on a TV instead of the bigscreen .  While editing the film to a mere two hours was a wise decision on the  director's behalf while "The Beach" was in theaters, on TV people can pause  the film and come back to it without getting bored and drifting off. That  is why the DVD has an added advantage for people who missed it in the  theater, or even for "Beach" fans who are seeing it for a second time  around, by showing additional scenes that have never before been seen. The  DVD also features the alternate ending, a storyboard gallery, the All  Saints music video "Pure Shores" and the theatrical trailers.  A great  film like "The Beach" deserves a second chance, so go out and rent "The  Beach" today on DVD. Whether or not one expects a lot out of this film,  they will definitely be pleasantly surprised.