The Hollywood Legends of Horror Collection is worth every one of the twenty seven hundred pennies that go into its purchase. For true fans of vintage horror or those looking for a perspective on it, you cannot ask for a better sampling. Usually in boxes of three or more films, you encounter some chaff, but in this case, all of these movies are worth watching, all of them an insight into a different time or career. The beautifully tinted Doctor X is at once simple and convoluted, deviant and innocent, the story of a neurologist under police investigation who gathers his colleagues to figure out which of them is a cannibal killer. This is livened up by an unnecessary reporter character and the divinely gorgeous Fay Wray. Ghastly subject matter combined with Monogram style tea parlor intrigue makes for a winner. On the same disc is Return of Doctor X, which has nothing to do with the first film, but showcases a phenomenally creepy undead Bogart. Undead Bogart. Are you buying this yet?
  Also included is the nigh peerless Mad Love. Colin Clive, famous for his (mediocre) portrayal of Doctor Frankenstein plays a pianist who loses his hands. Peter Lorre plays the schizoid surgeon who replaces Clive's hands with a criminal's and comes up with a plan to win over the man's beautiful actress wife, with whom he is in love and sexually obsessed. Under the watchful eyes of Karl Freund and Greg Toland, this is stunning to look at and becomes a fantastic meditation on art, love and madness. Criterion stuff. On the same disc is The Devil Doll in which Lionel Barrymore in sinister old lady drag tries to save his reputation by having the men who sent him up the river killed by tiny homonculi. Are you buying this yet?
  The final disc might be the least of the set, but it is still relevant and cool. Mark of the Vampire is a hackneyed retelling of London After Midnight and a masterclass in illogic. But Bela Lugosi's silent vampire and Carroll Borland's vampiress are images that will remain with you forever as symbols of the power of early horror. Also on this disc is yellow-peril pulp actioner The Mask of Fu Manchu. It might be politically incorrect, but I like it when Boris Karloff is Chinese. If somebody sold a "Boris Karloff is Chinese box set", I would buy it as soon as gaps appeared in the oubliette of poverty in which I live. Boris Karloff is Chinese, Peter Lorre is insane, Humphrey Bogart is undead. Halloween is coming. You need this.