Having arrived back from Uganda not long before seeing this movie, I was powerfully moved by it.  Having seen the scars of "ethic cleansing" in the countryside north of the capital Kampala, having heard the stories from those that crouched for months and months clinging to some vague hope of suvival as entire villages were massacred, have so wonderfully connected with those beautiful people, I was stunned by the plausability of this film.  Nigeria is indeed an explosive country, straddled by deep religious tension (they muslims to the north wanting to impose Islamic Law on the Christrians throughout), and like most African countries, a ever simmering-ready-to-blow keg of ethnic hatred.  Americans (sometimes) learn of the attrocities which have become all too common in Africa.  But like the holocaust, we hesitate to believe that such evil does exist and will set forth its will in utter destruction and contempt of life.

I deeply appreciated this flick because it seemed to bring the horrors of what we do not want to believe or see into our homes.  These realities cannot be trivialized.  They are real, as is the premise: "evil will triump when good men do nothing".  This movie was one of the most powerfully compelling, deeply emotional films I have seem.

And, having seen the film with a French citizen, before the war, I came out (of coarse) blasting the French (though they are now in the congo for a time) for their all too selfish crusade against intervention in Iraq - which amounted to little more than a desparate attempt to form a counter weight to American power on the geo-political stage, all while the mass graves continue to grow in population, while the children of Iraq continued to die under the suffocating embargo to the tune of 700,000 over 10+/- years.

Not that these men were good in essense, the world has a VERY short supply of truely GOOD men (human).  But this film does pose some difficult questions in a very compelling way, one that I hope will be a catalyse for the lazily blinding and hedonistic and anything but GOOD American people as we examine our responsibility in the world as its only remaining superpower.