Gather 'round! I'm going to make a believer out of you and convince you that this is the BEST ST Movie ever made! This is the second movie of what I like to call the "Star Trek trilogy". ST II, III, IV are all one long contiuous movie. However, this one stands out, while it is not original because it is continuing from ST II, it does present a lot of new and creative ideas that have been recycled for other Trek movies!
This movie introduces us to the modern day Klingon! Without THIS MOVIE the Klingons would not be the same. The Klingon language, while not invented in this movie, is expanded upon brilliantly! The "new" Klingon and language was introduced in ST-The Motion Picture. If you own this DVD then you already know how they came up with the new look for the Klingons and the language! Just one of the many great featurettes on this DVD!
 Without THIS MOVIE we would not have the coolest ship in all of Star Trek, the Klingon Bird of Prey! No question, the Bird of Prey is awesome!
 Without THIS MOVIE we would not have the cloaking device! Engenious! The cloaking device sets up the entire plot of ST VI. With out THIS MOVIE there is no plot for ST VI as we know it!
 As a lot of you may know, there is an actual Klingon camp that people can go to and dress up like Klingons and learn to speak the language and learn the Klingon ways! Without THIS MOVIE you have no Klingon Camps!
 Christopher Loyd is absolutely magnificent as Kruge! I love his performance! He even outdoes Khan as a bad guy! No question! Yes, Khan is a great bad guy for Kirk to handle but they never even share one scene in the movie. Kruge not only outwits Kirk but he also, albeit inadvertently, kills Kirks son. Then he keeps coming at Kirk even while the Genesis planet is blowing up all around them! Can't see Khan doing that!
 Again we see yet another thing THIS MOVIE brings to later movies. Without THIS MOVIE the Klingon empire would'nt be obsessed with Kirk. In Star Trek V the Klingons want to catch him for murdering Kruge and stealing the Bird of Prey and the Klingon obsession with Kirk carries over in Star Trek VI.  Note: Right after this movie Christopher Loyd went to work on a little movie called Back to the Future!
Without THIS MOVIE you have no Excelsior. Again, another pivotal thing in Star Trek VI.
THIS MOVIE was one of the first to tinker with DNA. You had to be there, but in between Star Trek II and III one had to wonder and debate how are they going to bring Spock back? The guy is dead. It not only makes sense, how they bring him back, but it is the most ingenious idea of the ENTIRE ST movie franchise. It also dips into an essence ingredient of Science Fiction and that is Terra Forming. Genetically altering an environment. I saw this movie in a packed, sold out, theater and when Saavik discovers there is "life" coming from Spocks tube/casket...you could here a collective gasp from the audience. Again, you had to be there. It's completely believable in the Star Trek realm.
THIS MOVIE has the single greatest on-screen moment of ANY ST movie and that is when Kirks son, David, is murdered. Shatner is brilliant. NO OTHER ST Captain could EVER pull off such a moment. Can anyone see Picard or Janeway in a moment like that? Nope. Can you imagine Picard trying to deal with Kruge? He would want to talk his ear off rather than fight him! That brings me to the last greatest moment of this film...
Kruge has clearly KO'd Kirk. But what does Kirk do? He blows up the Enterprise! Fantastic! The shot of the Enterprise blowing up is incredible! Here is this iconic ship, a ship that in Star Trek-The Motion Picture they took great care to show you all of the detail and splendor of this new and improved Enterprise, and in ST III it is just obliterated! Awesome!
 McCoy delivers the second greatest line of any ST movie and he describes Kirk to a T when they beam down to Genesis and watch fireball that was the Enterprise streak across the sky. Kirk says "My God, Bones, what have I done?" and McCoy says "What you always do...turn death into a fighting chance to live." So without THIS MOVIE the Enterprise would never have been destroyed! How many times does TNG rip that off?
THIS FILM was Nimoys first Directing job and he does a brilliant job! This DVD features tons of great stuff! Namely, the directors commentary from Nimoy. The only drawback, to Nimoys commentary, is he kind of comes off like an old grandpa telling you the same story you've heard him tell about 100 times. Example: between the featurettes and the directors commentary Leonard tells us no less than FOUR TIMES the story of how Michael Eisner was not going to let him direct the film because of a supposed claus in Nimoys contract that he would only come back if can direct the film.
Shatner, on the other hand, is great in the featurettes as he tells of how he put out a fire on the set and how he doesn't "trust" Nimoy. Funny stuff, you'll have to buy the DVD to see what I mean.
So, if you're not convinced that this is the greatest ST film ever, then you need to look at my review again and see all of the history this movie has created! Enjoy the show!