This is one of the few horror films that I can still sit back and enjoy.  It scared me pretty badly as a kid.  I still feel all the haunting vibes and chills watching it as an adult.
It may not be action packed (although the scene with Reed trying to kill his soon in the pool was terrifying--and ultra-realistic), but it certainly gets under your skin.  This film is about mood, and it is both beautifully entrancing and ominously mesmerizing.  I actually found the acting quite good.  Reed was wonderful.  I loved the two weird siblings, Roz and Brother (Burgess Meredith, wonderful actor).  Their adoration of the house sent chills up my spine.
The true stars of the movie are the music (Bob Cobert's amazing Music Box Theme) and the house (Dunsmuir House & Gardens, in Oakland, California).  For true horror buffs out there, this movie inspired the creators of PHANTASM to drive up to Oakland and use this same mansion as the infamous Morningside Mortuary.  Which is probably, when the opening moments of PHANTASM rolled in 1979, I had such fear towards Morningside--seeing the mansion there again on screen!  
I have to wonder if other elements of BURNT OFFERINGS inspired PHANTASM as well.  Note the creepy old lady upstairs at the end.  Reminds one of PHANTASM's eerie fortuneteller.  How about B.O.'s terrifying hearse chauffeur?  He's kind of like a forerunner of the Tall Man!
BURNT OFFERINGS is well worth the viewing.  Don't expect any real jolts or screams.  But turn off the lights and let it really sink in.  It's well worth a viewing.  There are many moments (such as the house renewing itself during the rainstorm) that are bizarre and horribly fascinating.  I haven't seen this good a haunted house movie in years.
And definitely visit Dunsmuir in real life.  This place is spectacular.  You'll fall in love with it, just like Karen Black!  lollol  [....]  I certainly did.  I spent awhile helping out as tour guide and volunteer at the estate while attending college in the Bay Area.  To me it'll always be both Morningside and 17 Shore Road.  During tours of the manse, the guides always are sure to point out the "Blue Room" where Bette Davis met her demise in the film.  (Shiver.)