Are you loved? Hated? Respected? The responses might surprise you.

In Eulogy, a refreshingly new dark comedy, we see what happens when this question is answered about the deceased, Grandpa Collins (Rip Torn). These answers are presented with stinging humor mixed with heartfelt sentiments addressing issues of life and death in an entertaining take on family and funeral.

Kate Collins' (Zooey Deschanel) Grandpa passes away and she is given the difficult task of eulogizing him. Not only must she come to grips with the loss of a loved one, but in spending quality time with her dysfunctional family she learns that there was much more to Grandpa than she had known. Grandma Collins (Piper Laurie) and Kate seem to be the only ones partaking in any outward grieving. The rest of the Collins' clan has issues with Dad who wasn't around a lot growing up. His legendary disappearing acts have left his children in a very puzzled state.

Alice, the big sister, (Debra Winger) manages to make her three children and husband so afraid to speak, that they are practically mute. Lucy (Kelly Preston), the younger pretty sister, is a lesbian involved in a loving relationship with the very attractive Judy (Famke Janssen), but struggling with her identity because of Alice's disapproval. Side bar --->It's nice to see a lesbian couple that does not fit the stereotypical image of masculine women with buzz-cuts.&lt;--- Now Skip (Ray Romano), has turned out to be a lousy lawyer, which is not surprising considering he's always been the most forgotten of the children, and is also divorced with two wisecracking kids. Lastly, there is Daniel (Hank Azaria), a washed up actor, who is also Kate's father.

Michael Clancy's unique story premise involves arriving at the eulogy of a man whose death is an inconvenience to most of his family. However, as we eventually see, he brought it upon himself by being an absentee father. His absences are explained in a wicked, comical twist later in the film. Grandpa Collins' children wrestle with trying to feel positive emotions for someone who wasn't there, to find moments of joy with Dad. Kate has to find the words to summarize her love for Grandpa in a speech, while learning that he wasn't the man she looked up to as a little girl.

This film has an outstanding ensemble cast down to the child actors Curtis Garcia (Fred) and Keith Garcia (Ted) who have many funny moments as the oversexed smart aleck twin children of Skip. Debra Winger is exceptional stealing many scenes as an emotionally confused mother with a foul mouth who is constantly judging people. The rest of the cast is equally excellent and a special mention should go to Ray Romano's mustache for a terrific performance. I believed it all the way.

It's always great to see an original idea. How many movies have you seen where humor is the main device building up to a eulogy and beyond? Michael Clancy as writer-director takes the "funeral or grieving movie" if that qualifies as a genre and cleverly flips it on its side. Using sharp humor he tells the story of a family's loss while they emote and ultimately learn to love again. If you are interested in seeing a distinctive comedy about death, and more importantly, life please go see this engaging independent film.

Movie Grade: A-