Based on the one-line summary in blue above, you can pretty much already tell what I think of this Pay-Per-View. Read on to find out why it's so horrible. As always, prepare for spoilers.

Chuck Palumbo, Johnny Stamboli (F.B.I.), and John Cena def. Chris Benoit, Rhyno, and Brian "Spanky" Kendrick: This match lasted a total time of 3 minutes and 55 seconds. Six of the most talented guys on the entire roster get less than 4 minutes on this PPV? What a waste of these guy's talents. 1.5/10 (For it's shortness and for simply wasting these guys like this).

La Resistance def. Test and Scott Steiner: What is the reason for dressing up La Resistance in that attire? The WWE is trying to get them over as a serious tag team, but they have them wearing rediculous outfits that even Mike Shaw (Bastion Booger/Friar Ferguson/ Norman The Lunatic) would be embarassed to wear. What do you expect me to give this match as a rating? If you guessed that it was another bad match on this horrible card, then you guessed right. 1/10 (Although it could have been worse).

Ladder Match for the SmackDown! Tag Team Championship- Eddie Guerrero and Tajiri def. Team Angle (c) to win the titles: The original match was supposed to be Eddie and Chavo Guerrero vs. Team Angle, but Chavo was injured the Tuesday before this event took place. No mention of the injury was even said on SmackDown!, which they easily could have mentioned since he got injured before the actual taping of SD!. I remember a few days before this PPV, I even jokingly stated on a message board that they'd pick Tajiri as Eddie's partner and give them a name like "United Nations" or something. Well, half of my joking prediction came true. The match itself was pretty good, but this Team Angle vs. Los Guerreros/Eddie & Tajiri angle has been played out for far too long an/d we've basically seen matches like this one on SmackDown! for free. 6/10

Intercontinental Championship Battle Royal- Christian wins: You know something about this battle royal that never made any sense and shows that WWE can't even remember what they've already booked? When Steve Austin was setting this match up, he stated that only former Intercontinental Champions would be able to participate in it. Well, they decide to put Booker T in this thing, despite him never holding the IC title before. The WWE have brought back the Val Venis gimmick in this match, yet again. I'm writing this review around two months after this event took place, and the WWE have yet to use Val Venis in anything noteworthy or interesting so far, proving that it was a bad decision to bring him back in the first place. The Battle Royal itself was suprisingly bad, considering what kind of talent they had in this thing, but I guess it's pretty decent when comparing it to the rest of this card. 3/10

Bikini Contest- Torrie Wilson def. Sable: Lame. A complete waste of time and this is just the same crap that we saw on SmackDown! the past two months. Sable gets louder cheers and Torrie actually gets some boos, but Torrie is somehow declared the winner. Here is a quote from someone else who recapped this PPV on another site "Think about it. If you can afford 35 bucks for this pay per view, you can afford the 6 or 7 bucks it takes to buy the Playboy's that they're in and actually get to see them NAKED instead of teasing us. And there's always the Internet". I can't disagree with him there. 0/10

Mr. America def. Roddy Piper: Lets think about this for a minute, you've got two senior citizens that are 50 years old, then you've got Sean O'Haire (A man who has more talent then both of these geriatrics combined) sitting in the corner doing nothing. What do you do? If you're Vince McMahon, you obviously go with the two old has-beens. A rare occurance happens here, as this is another one of those matches that are so bad that they get a negative rating. -4/10

Raw Championship- Kevin Nash def. Triple H (c) By Dq, HHH retains: It should be noted that the WWE advertised for weeks that Ric Flair and Shawn Michaels were going to be in the corners of the two competitors, but now they don't want the two guys out there because their presence would overshadow that of the people in the ring (credit to Scott Kieth for this information). See, even Vince knows how bad this match will be, but yet he still goes through with it. Trips retains the title, proving that he won't even put his best friend over. Match ended in a srewjob finish and was quite awful. 0/10

Women's Championship Match- Jazz(c) def. Jacqueline, Victoria, and Trish Stratus: We see how important the Raw title is, just by having this Women's match go after it. This is basically the same exact match from the same exact people that they've had on Raw for months now. Well, at least Trish didn't win the title for the 13th time in the past year and the match wasn't as bad as some of the others. 1.5/10

SmackDown! Championship Match- Brock Lesnar(c) def. Big Show: The beginning of the match was a bit slow, but the ending really picked up and made the rating go up. 4.5/10 (not bad for a Big Show match).

Overall: Just a horrible Pay-Per-View and I'm glad I saw it for free, otherwise I might have actually been so mad that I would have thrown a brick through my t.v. I can't bad-mouth this PPV enough and I strongly recommend you to avoid this event at all costs.