I've heard a few people say they were disappointed after seing this film; they had expected better. I think a lot of people have the wrong expectations when it comes to The Brothers Grimm: in the theatre I see lots of people of whom I can tell from moment one they will be disappointed.

Mothers with young children who actually think this movie has anything to do with the traditional fairy tales; this movie is NOT for children! If I were 7 I'd wet my bed for days after seing The Brothers Grimm. Young boys and girls on dates, all expecting an easy digestive romcom with an obvious storyline and no depth (I don't know how they got there but they did). That is NOT the case. If you want Finding Nemo, go see Finding Nemo. If you want American Pie, go see American Pie. But don't complain about The Brothers Grimm, because it is an absolute masterpiece!

The storyline is entertaining (one of the few movies that doesn't make you go "when's the intermission already? I need to pee!"), the director paints an amazing picture with his brilliant set, the characters are adorable and the actors do an amazing job. There wasn't a moment I saw them acting instead of being. One thing that really caught my attention was the role of Angelika (by Lena Heady) which reminded me in every single way of Keira Knightley's version of Guinevere in King Arthur - in a good way though.

Overall, I think this movie is a serious tribute to the fantasy genre, and I think that people who can appreciate that will love this. Don't look for logic, don't look for unexpected plots like in The Village and The Others, don't expect American Pie jokes and FOR GOD'S SAKE don't take your little children with you to this movie.

This is a brilliant movie that can hold it's own and if you ask me it deserves lots and lots of attention and awards.

YOU WILL LIKE THIS MOVIE IF YOU LIKE... Sleepy Hollow (with Johnny Depp and Christina Ricci), King Arthur (with Clive Owen and Keira Knightley), Pirates of the Caribbean (with Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom).