Elf is a great movie because it's really funny, Will Ferrell fits the part of Buddy, and it's appropriate for all ages.
 Do you enjoy watching funny, Christmas movies with elves in them? If you do, I highly recommend this movie for you to watch. For one, it stars Will Ferrell. Two, it's about elves. And three, it's about Christmas! Who doesn't love all those awesome things combined in one movie?! Some movies are clich&eacute;, but definitely not this one! The way it all makes sense and falls together; makes the story completely understandable. The acting is one of the best things about the wonderful film. It's funny and it's... well just so funny! The plot is about a boy who slips into Santa's sack one Christmas Eve when he was little, and then he got taken and raised at the North Pole. He becomes an elf, an overgrown elf, who meets his real father after many years at the North Pole. Will/Buddy faces a few obstacles during his elf time, but then there are many heartwarming moments. In the end, Buddy ends up with his new/original family. I love this movie because of Will, the scenes, and the fact that Christmas can bring a father and son together.
 One of the reasons why Elf is so funny is because of some of the scenes. In one scene, Buddy the elf was going inside a building and to enter, you had to go through a spinning door. That was the first time he had ever been in one so he went through the door about seven different times! Another is when he attacked the fake Santa at the mall. You see, Buddy used to live in the North Pole with the real Santa Claus. So when he saw the fake Santa, he ran over and ripped off his beard and said, "You're not Santa!"
 Will Ferrell fits well playing the part of Buddy the elf because he has the perfect looks for an elf. His wild, curly hair helps with that. He has the comedic abilities of Buddy from his days (or should I say nights) on Saturday Night Live. His style is unique among modern movie funnymen. His humor is a character driven which is perfect for the part of Buddy.
 Elf is a movie that is PG. It has a good family storyline about how families can get along despite their differences. It also tells how people can change and become a better person. It is in all a very fun, holiday themed, movie that has a good moral to it. The movie itself has very little offensive language or scenes that may be questionable. This makes the movie appropriate for all ages.
 I can't\ say enough good things about this movie! I've watched it several times and I laugh every time! I consider this to be the perfect movie for the whole family. So, you'd better watch out and you better not cry! And in keeping with the holiday spirit, I'm going to tell you why! Give yourself "the gift of Elf" for any family gathering and discover the simple pleasure of believing in the spirit of Christmas! Now, go buy the fantastic Elf and get to know Buddy and his story!