First of all, what a DVD! This has five star extras all the way from cast and crew living the early days to film historians talking about it. `The Creature from the Black Lagoon' was also the first film to use underwater motion picture photography. Diver's oxygen tanks are called by their old original name - The Aqua Lung... not to say that the underwater sequences are badly made or have low production values, quite the opposite, it was this film that Speilberg ripped off for the opening sequence of Jaws... just watch the underwater images of the chick swimming in the lagoon.

The monster, a sort of evolutionary mutation, a fish-man, is as classic as Dracula, Wolfman, Frankenstein, The Mummy, although he is the weakest of the lot, he is actually the best MONSTER. The creature like Dracula has love for women, but is somewhat evil by choice and the creature is not, unlike Wolfman the creature does not change, unlike Frankenstein's monster the creature is natural and not man made, unlike The Mummy he is not the result of magic, just naturally an evolutionary problem because the creature steals your wife when she goes bathing. The creature kills people by either drowning them or crushing their heads in his webbed hands... however surprisingly, there is very little in terms of violence, more suggestive, and is family viewing, no problem.

Cinema circuit 1950s, 60s television children grew up with it, we saw the monster in the 80s movie `The Monster Squad' and then went digging around to find the original. Can the man in the rubber suite still work? Yeah, even beats some animatronics and CGI that we see today. Just check out the size of the suite underwater... not bad considering nobody died making it... or at least that is what we are told anyway. The Creature is simply compelled by sex to do what it does. So was King Kong!

The characters are all functional from the geeky sidekicks, the scientists and boyfriend diver action men, to the stunning heroine in the bikini (the juxtaposition of a woman in water swimming with the creature looks wonderful), the Freudian psychology of the 50s scholar, Beauty and the Beast themes, sexual repression and pent up frustrations on board a boat near the Black Lagoon make this movie anything but slow.

Anyhow this DVD package is truly awesome in every sense of the word. If you have anything for classic monsters in the movies then get this DVD. The extras are sublime.