'The Wild Bunch' is the ground-breaking film that set the new standard for many of the Westerns and Action Flicks that are made today. Made more than thirty years ago, the film and filmaker's visual and story-telling style is used time and time again by some of todays renowned action directors like John Woo and Walter Hill.
One of the ground-breaking elements of 'TWB' is the realism behind the on-screen violence of this picture. 'TWB' was one of the first westerns where there was 'blood-letting' in the gunfight scenes. When someone is shot, blood would spurt or spill simutaneously from the wound in a morbid display. Add slow motion cinematography to it and the audience is treated to very ferocious, yet sensational on-screen action that's almost 'balletic'. As gratitous as the violence may seem, however, it is not violence for the sake of violence. It's the method used by directors today worldwide to illustrate violence that satisfies more mature and sofisticated audiences. Set during 1913 in Texas, just before America went into WWI, 'TWB' is about the unity of a band of outlaws led by Pike Bishop(william Holden) after realizing they did not score big from the bloody bank job they just pulled. So they decide to ride further south and soon meet Mapache, a self-proclaimed Mexican 'Generale' who has it all (wealth, women, booze, and an army) and is an enemy of the legendary Poncho Villa. The General offers Pike's posse a job - to rob a train transporting US Army rifles and explosives to use against Villa. Seduced by the money, booze, and women, Pike's gang takes the job in hopes of it being their last big score. However it won't be so easy. Hot on Pike's trail is Deke Thornton (Robert Ryan), a convict and Pike's former partner in crime, now working with the law to bring down Pike and his posse in exchange for freedom.
Some other themes of 'TWB' that are often reused in action and western films to come are that of 'honor among thieves' and the 'amoral cowboy'. There is no longer a clear boundry between good and bad, and black and white. 'TWB' puts you in a 'grey' area about the values of honor, loyalty, and duty among men.
This film is an absolute must-see for fans of western and/or action.