I loved this movie when I saw it in college, but that was about 40 years ago. This time around, I did not care for it as much. The basic weakness in the movie is the lack of clarity in the boy's motivations and the ending.

Spoilers...

I felt confused about why the boy killed himself. Having also read the book, I know that he took his own life in the written story; it seems like the movie decided that was the best way to end as well. But while the book is very clear why the boy chose to die, the movie is not.

I had previously assumed that the boy chose to end it because the girl rejected his romantic advances. But that did not seem so clear when I watched it this time.

The boy becomes depressed the day before when he sees some white hunters killing buffalo. It's not really clear why this affected him so much. Was it the use of a rifle to do the killing? Why should that matter?  After becoming depressed, the boy spends the night in an animal graveyard and awakens the next morning with his skin painted up as a skeleton. Then he returns to the where the children are camping and performs his dance.

Most people seem to think this is a courtship dance, but, if so, it left me very confused. Do you do a courtship dance when you are depressed and disguised as a skeleton? It looked more like a death dance to me. Maybe it was his way of exhausting himself so that he would be able to die quickly by hanging in the tree.

I also couldn't avoid wondering if a young aboriginal man would acutally have any interest in the white girl. Beauty is basically a set of cultural attitudes, and primitive cultures usually have strict traditions of kinship and other considerations when looking for a mate. Would a hunter/gatherer in a harsh wildnerness choose a mate who was completely helpless and unable to contribute to survival?

Basically, this whole romance theme seemed out of place to me. The part that still worked for me was the contrast between the boy's basic good nature and generosity with the various civilized white people:  the crazy dad, the perverse bunch of losers at the weather balloon station, and the watchman at the settlement where the children end up..."Don't touch that, don't touch anything. This is private property, it's all private property."

Still a movie worth watching, but I no longer consider it a masterpiece.

Chaz