Foley vs. carlito

A very good match that was a bit better than expected seeing as though Mick hasn't been wrestling lately, however he hadn't lost a step and helped Carlito. However, there is only so much you can do with someone like Carlito, still very good match though.

RATING: 81/100

Batista vs. Coach

Nothing special, a few minutes and nothing much more to say. I can't make my mind up if Goldust and Vader were a plus or a minus. Disappointing indeed however.

RATING: 55/100

Eugene vs. Conway

Nothing more than bland, however, nice to see Superfly do his finisher

RATING: 55/100

Diva battle royal

Entertaining as usual but could have been a lot better if they wrestled more (gave it more time for that)

RATING: 63/100

Edge & Masters vs. Hardy & Rey

Nice match to start things off with, the drop here was the regular isolation of one face. This always kills the rating a bit especially if extensive. Great ending moves and some good tag moments.

RATING: 76/100

Cade & Murdoch vs. big show & kane

Not bad, better than expected and both teams seemed to have done their best, nice ending to a relatively good tag match

RATING: 73/100

Triple H vs. Ric Flair

A match with intense psychology, a story told, some gory moments and 5 moves from Flair! The aforementioned first 3 positives truly were positives and really made this match great, however the latter of the 4 of the matche's characteristics was a huge letdown and stopped this match from being an instant match of the year candidate. Although still up there, Flair's lack of moves and over the top use of chops killed hopes of getting this match into the high 90's. Still awesome match and well done to H'y Boy!

RATING: 90/100

Cena vs. Angle vs. Hbk

Now here was a match that was truly astounding but once again with only 1 real hindrance. The fact that Cena retained was the hindrance here as the perfect cherry on the top for this one would have been if Angle made Cena tap! Some real great moments and some high-flying from HBK got this to greatness and one of the best wwe title matches of the year.

RATING: 91/100

Two tremendous Main events and two very enjoyable gooo matches left the other four leaving something to be desired. Still a good PPV made by the final 2 matches of the night.