It's as though the first time, with McQueen and Dunaway in 1968, was a rehearsal.  I've always loved that original "Thomas Crown Affair," especially for Michel Legrand's achingly beautiful score.  (And, sure, everybody was humming "Windmills of Your Mind," but  do you remember "His Eyes, Her Eyes," the mastersong of the old  soundtrack?)  However, I have to admit that the new version is ever so much  more than the old--more complex, more humane, more entertaining.  For  example, the original revolves around a bank robbery with a noisy chase  scene and shoot'em up--action-flick business as usual.  The new starts with  a devilishly intricate two-stage heist, bloodless and nearly invisible, at  the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and instead of mundane money, the thief's  object is something that, arguably, really matters.  Instead of the  original chess game that turns into a multi-minute kiss, shot at 36 stylish  angles in dizzying spins and effects, we now have a dance sequence whose  real star is the lighting designer--omigawd, what IS Russo wearing?  The  brittle, brutal, male-female guessing game of 1968 becomes a 1999  psychosexual engagement between two formidable opponents, each--to their  great surprise--worthy of the other.  What will win out in the end, ego or  the urge to merge?  the script asks (and Dunaway asks too, this time  appearing as Brosnan's Sybillic therapist, who seems to be peering with  amused detachment through a long lens at the past).  The film builds and  unfolds, playfully spilling the amassed symbolism into the final action  sequence in the Met as the perfect heist is reprised.  And, at the end of  the movie, as Sting exquisitely sings the 1968 theme song over the 1999  credits, you realize not only "That the autumn leaves are turning / To  the color of her hair," but also that you've seen two immense heists  and a lot of suspense without a single on-screen death or even a gun.  Is  this why some people insist it's not an action film?  I say bravo.  And  I'll buy the video as soon as the price goes down.  :^)