In this off-kilter movie Jeff Garlin creates something special and different with a great supporting cast.

If you enjoyed movies such as, 'You, Me and Everyone We Know', 'Junebug', 'Mind The Gap' and even, 'Little Miss Sunshine' you might want to see, 'I Want Someone To Eat Cheese With'.

While it's more of a comedy than any of the afore-mentioned, it shares certain traits - an interest in regular people and their lives, wry observations about the rapport that familial relationships and old friendships are founded on and a quiet feeling of abundance, even when things are going 'wrong'.

Jeff Garlin's character, James, has many things happen to him, such as losing multiple jobs in what seems to be the space of a day, but I was stuck how the possibility of money problems or 'survival issues' never played any role in the story - which in this culture is quite refreshing. It was also interesting that, in the end, James found the answers to his 'problems' from within his own life. There were no dramatic additions to his life or convenient solutions. His lack of need to control allowed his life to sort itself out. Like 'Groundhog Day' I think this movie would be of interest to psychologists.

There were many times while watching that I laughed out loud. Mr. Garlin is excellent - I don't know if much acting was required and it doesn't matter because he's so likable being himself. He's supported by an equally competent cast, some familiar some not. The actress who plays his mom is particularly funny - but again, in an understated way.

Having read other reviews here I was frankly surprised at the reaction, or lack of, to this movie. All I can assume is that many people expected Mr. Garlin to appear in something exactly like 'Curb You Enthusiasm' or have seen 'The Dark Knight' too many times. It does have the subtle, observational wit of 'Curb' but not the outrageous situations and certainly not the high volume dialog.

Finally, I'd like to thank the reviewers who panned this movie, they've enabled me to buy the DVD in 'like new' condition for under $5.00.