I revised my review, now that my brain is functional again.

Having spent much of my childhood in the 80's to mid-90's, there were a number of cartoon shows that had me entranced on Friday nights and Saturday mornings. Thundercats, Silverhawks, the Super Mario Bros Super Show (with Legend of Zelda), and of course, G.I.Joe. It was a great time to be a kid to say the least!

Fast forward almost twenty years; looking back at them, I'll admit that they weren't exactly cinematic masterpieces. The animation wasn't the greatest (sometimes bordering on mediocre), the story-lines were simple, and some of the dialogue was extremely cheesy. But the characters (heroes and villains) were memorable, each with their own theme/schtick, personality, and abilities. Each show had the basic formula: start off with a catchy theme song, throw your characters into a situation with a surprise or two, add in the action and let the good guys triumph!

Now, how do you make something like that into a 2009 summer action flick? From the track record of previous cartoons made into movies, I know I wouldn't! But Lorenzo di Bonaventura and Stephen Sommers had to try anyway because it seemed like the thing to do at the time (Transformers was fresh on everyone's minds, for all the wrong reasons). Does this movie have the formula of its cartoon ancestor? Well... no, not really.

Our heroes start off in Egypt, where the villainous Cobra decides to unleash its evil plan, which involves stealing WMDs made up of nanomachines which can eat through anything. Duke and Ripcord (Channing Tatum and Marlon Wayans respectively) find themselves in a jam, and end up being rescued by Scarlett (Rachel Nichols) and Snake Eyes (Ray Park). Unsuccessful, Baroness (Sienna Miller) and Storm Shadow (Byung Hun-Lee) are sent to the Pit (which should not be in Egypt BTW) to make the attempt again. Successful after yet another fight scene, they take the warheads to Baron DeCobray in Paris. Somehow in the midst of the Joes crashing through trains and leaping across buildings in their augmentation suits (I don't remember that from the cartoon), Cobra manages to fire one of the WMDs, destroying the Eiffel Tower and a couple dozen vehicles with it.

I'll admit, this part made me laugh out loud, because it reminds me so much of another movie which spoofed G.I.Joe (America, ---- yeah!). But a lot of the other aspects of the movie just leaves my head shaking in dismay. Maybe it's the nostalgia in me that cries out when these mistakes rear their ugly heads. Just to name my five biggest beefs:

1. Baroness was Duke's ex-girlfriend? That's a big negative. She was clearly German in both the cartoon series and the comics, and she had a thing for Destro. Plus, she pretty much liked being evil (which... most of us liked as well; she was evil hot!).

2. G.I.Joe is an international anti-terrorism team? Holy mother of... &lt;whew> alright. G.I.Joe was a counterterrorism team, but they were Americans. Okay, Hollywood, just exactly what's wrong with being American?

3. The origin of Snake Eyes and Storm Shadow: Seeing how this was a huge part of this movie (flashbacks and all), you'd think they'd at least have this straightened out. Snake Eyes was NOT Japanese. Snake Eyes and Storm Shadow were not bitter rivals (in fact, Storm Shadow defects from Cobra in the comics).

4. Where was everyone else? You know: Flint, Gung-Ho, Lady Jaye, Sgt Slaughter, Roadblock, etc.? Granted, the screenplay writers did pick a few of the characters that fans were familiar with (and invented one to give Marlon Wayans a role), which matters little due to the fact that their respective backgrounds and specialities were wrong.

5. Total lack of realism: In action movies, I'm fairly good at suspending my disbelief. But in this movie, there's way too much to chew! Ripcord chasing a missile with a jet fighter (with no G-suit, or helmet w/supplemental oxygen), ice that sinks like anvils (I wish I was making this up), and powered suits that allow our heroes to leap across buildings and through trains in a single bound. Sounds like the X-Men, not G.I.Joe.

In spite of my gripes, I'll grant that at least some effort was input to make this movie. The plot at least made sense (more than I can say for Transformers 2), and a few of the action scenes were entertaining (Snake Eyes versus Storm Shadow). It does qualify as an action movie, not a good one, but watchable. But I will sum it up with this: there are far better action movies out there. If you absolutely have to watch this, rent it. If you're a G.I.Joe fan, it's only going to make you mad. Buy the classic comic books instead; you'll be glad you did.