This review is regarding the ORIGINAL DVD release and is not referring to later releases, including the 50th Anniversary release.

Considering this was the first film made after the passing of Jim Henson, the chances of it being a flop were huge, but I, for one, am not disappointed.  It is my favorite book of all time.  I have seen countless versions in film, and this is my second favorite.  (The Alistair Sim version is the best version there is.)

True, the Muppets (except Gonzo and Rizzo) are not necesssarily true to their Muppet characters, but they are very well cast in the roles they play in the story.  As a matter of fact, I can't stand Robin - at all - but he doesn't bother me as Tiny Tim.  There is, sadly, not nearly enough of Louie the Boomerang Fish Thrower, but that can be said of every Muppet film.  The creators have even creatively fit characters that you wouldn't normally "cast" in the story very smoothly - including the Swedish Chef and Dr. Teeth & the Electric Mayhem.

I cannot accurately say what is missed on the edges of the screen, but considering the Muppets are the masters at background details, I can trust other reviewers who say there are bits that can't be seen.

The "deleted" song.
**Sigh**
I'm not sure what everyone is talking about as my version - groan - HAS "When Love is Gone."  Perhaps there are other releases that did not include it.  For the purists, I understand that we SHOULD NOT EVER edit movies from their original theatrical versions.  I can't even stand all the "director's cuts" that come out.  I don't mind deleted scenes as a DVD feature, but they should not run during the film - unless they include two versions on the disk.  Here are my two cents about the song.  I HATE it.  It should not even have been in the theatrical version (which it was). It's a decent melody (reprised later in the finale) with mediocre lyrics, sung poorly by a character that the audience has only seen in one scene prior, which is not nearly enough time to care about her.  (Just as a side note, we barely know this character in Dickens' original text, which is even more reason NOT to have her sing.) We watch this movie every year on Christmas Eve morning, and we ALWAYS skip this ridiculous, plot-slowing song.

Michael Caine is a brilliant Scrooge.  As another review stated he is not a caricature of greed so often portrayed, and this makes his change at the end much more logical and realistic.  He clearly has studied many other versions, and his performance rivals that - and often imitates - that of Alistair Sim in the 1951 version - which is probably why I like him so much in this role.  Although it IS the first time we have a human main character, I can't think of a Muppet I would like to play this role, so I don't mind too much.

Those are my thoughts.  I have no compalints about anything, really.  It's a great film - very well done, although I can see why some would be upset about the edges cut off.  If a scene - however dreadful it might be - is cut from other releases, that is a TRAVESTY, and I wish there was a way to boycott without denying myself gems such as the Muppet films.