I rented this one last night, expecting a typical war story.  What I got was something else entirely.  This is the movie adaptation of the autobiographical book of the same name by Anthony Swofford about his experiences in the Marines during the first Gulf War.  As a former military guy myself from that era, I was initially drawn into the story because I could relate to Swofford's introduction into military life at boot camp.  It was a scene familiar to anyone with armed forces experience.  Unfortunately, the movie went downhill from there.

As the story traces Swofford's short military career through his garrison time and into Desert Shield, there remains an aura of credibility, although frankly some of the behavior depicted by the servicemen began to stretch the limits of what was believable based on what I knew of military life.  As Desert Shield drags on for months, the focus shifts to the emotional and psychological toll of wartime inactivity, which admittedly is more pronounced among sex-starved young men who know nothing but loneliness and boredom.  Even so, these scenes become exaggerated and even caricatured by the onset of the Desert Storm phase.

Finally, the theme moves on to the futility and senselessness of war from the perspective of the average grunt on the ground.  Again, there was some familiarity here for one who had lived through eight years of often nonsensical and contradictory military culture.  However, some of the Marines' responses simply didn't jive with the reality of their circumstances, or reflect fairly on the immense professionalism that characterizes the modern U.S. military, both now and during the early 90s when this story takes place.

Oddly enough, for a "war movie" this had almost no violence in it whatsoever.  It is much more of a character study and a psychological inquiry into the nature of young men trained to fight and kill.  It renders an indictment of high-level military leadership which, while true, is also one-sided.  In short, this story offers up heavy doses of both reality and exaggeration, and it is up to the viewer to try to sort out which is which.  For people with military experience that shouldn't be too hard, but others will likely walk away with a distorted view of our armed forces.