FRENZY, Hitchcock's penultimate film, was a critical and commercial success on its 1972 release, but has never become legendary the way PSYCHO, VERTIGO, or THE BIRDS have.  This is partially because Hitchcock uses no glamorous movie stars here - the performers are all London stage veterans, not Hollywood personalities - and partially because this is a very unpleasant and disturbing work that leaves the viewer feeling rather stained and dirty afterwards.  In FRENZY, Hitchcock culminates a lifetime of obsession with the figure of the unjustly accused man AND the rape-murder of a blonde woman.  The film is the story of Dick Blaney (J. Finch), who is imprisoned as London's "Necktie Murderer" after both his ex-wife and his girlfriend are found dead.  Blaney knows that the real murderer is his "friend," grocer Bob Rusk, and he breaks out of prison to catch and kill Rusk.  He is prevented from doing so only by Inspector Oxford of Scotland Yard, who, unbeknownst to Blaney, has been on the trail of the real killer for some time.  FRENZY disturbs because the "wrongly accused man," is a far from sympathetic character.  Blaney is crude, violent and selfish, and is certainly capable of murder (hence his former profession as a soldier), and indeed, we see him sink to the level of Bob Rusk at the end of the film.  On the other hand, the actual killer, like PSYCHO'S Norman Bates, seems like a calm, generous man who "loves flowers and fruit," and "has things to give," but who is actually a volcano of rage and hate.  These complex characterizations leave the viewer in an uneasy frame of mind, as we are forced to identify with characters who are morally ambiguous, to say the least!  The film's treatment of women is also horrifying.  The rape-murder of Brenda Blaney (B. Leigh-Hunt) is the single longest scene in the film, and is indeed drawn out to a near-excruciating length.  The camera dwells on the sight of Brenda's violation and strangling with an unbearable explicitness.  Brenda wears a pale green sheath similar to Melanie's dress in THE BIRDS, and it seems that Hitchcock symbolically extinguished the figure of the chilly blonde who preoccupied him for so long.  Also, FRENZY makes a constant connection between women, food, sex and pollution that is in fact quite repugnant.  Despite all of this, FRENZY fascinates because it is so well-made, so elegantly directed, and so humourous.  Our emotions are quite spectacularly manipulated by this film - you will find yourself cringing in revulsion one moment and laughing out loud the next, and this strange dichotomy makes for a - to say the least - unique viewing experience.  A violent, funny and quite profound film that rewards repeated viewings, if you have the guts for it.