Coming into Land, I had a helluva lot of expectations. My biggest issue, was whether or not this would feel like another "Dead" film, or if it would reek of Hollywood. It's unfortunate that so many old filmmakers, who churned out some of the greatest horror and action films of all time, succumbed to this terrible disease so to speak. Wes Craven is a perfect example of this, as is John Carpenter nowadays. You can feel how much they toned down from each film, and how each was set to appeal to a mass audience of teenagers. My main concern was, if Romero was to bring Zombies into the mainstream, would it turn out as a massive step below the original trilogy?

Fortunately, as I walked out the theatre, I didn't feel that way. And currently, I'm overwhelmed with a sense of childish glee that I got exactly what I had hoped for. The film was filled with tension from start to finish, and I never knew what to expect next. The few 'jump out scares' that occurred in the film were no worst than those that appeared primarily in Dawn of the Dead (Day had very few of those, though Night had some), and they worked given the fact that the entire atmosphere outside of the city was so abandoned, and seemingly empty.

The concept of having a Caste system reinstated brings up a lot of ideas, and causes much discussion as to Kauffman's motives. While he is the typical money hungry bastard, he's also an ambitious, racist, money hungry, power seeking man who is so bent on returning to the old way of life, that he's willing to simply ignore the problem, which ultimately leads to the end of his 'perfect' society. He thought that turning his back to these creatures, would make them go away, and in effect, by leaving them untouched for so long, they evolved over time, just like virus' and bacteria do essentially.

What comes out of this is a characterization of these sub-humans that is a step past where Bub went in 'Day'. It's the next logical step for these creatures, and while we never get to see the trial and error of them trying to figure out what to do, one can assume that big Daddy isn't the first to start to evolve, as it's clearly visible that the majority of these zombies are trying to return to their previous state, unconsciously, or perhaps consciously. So when Big daddy picks up the gun, and it fires, the firing itself is purely accidental because his finger pushes on the trigger. He pushes again, it fires again. He points it at his enemy, pushes the trigger, it fires, albeit very inaccurately. Who's to say that he didn't go to rifle ranges in the past life? We'll never know. Like Bub who knew how to fire a gun from his previous life, he managed to take out Rhodes. As a gasoline worker, Big Daddy remembers subconsciously (Or otherwise) that s--- blows up. Henceforth. He's sort of the Malcom X of the zombies, helping them to reach a new awareness along with him, and taking physical action against those who trespass on their peaceful land. The primary zombies in the film do not eat people. The main 6-7 zombies only kill, which is evident of this new vengeful nature.

The other characters in the film, such as Riley and Cholo, Charlie, and the other main characters all have dialogue that suits their nature, and throughout the course of the film we get to know their personalities better, giving them depth that most horror movie characters would only hope to have. Charlie's interactions with Riley especially were interesting, in that it's not just a buddy buddy thing, but a mutual "I watch your back, you watch mine" sort of thing. Charlie is eternally loyal to this man, and it shows. Asia Argento is ****ing hot. otherwise, she plays a gritty ***** who knows how to get down and dirty, and has a reason: bringing Kaufman down. john Liguezamo finally gets his chance to be in a horror/action film, and he pulls it off well. Cholo is a character who's paid his fair share, and wants to get something out of it like all the others in the city, but Kauffman refuses, and decides to have him killed. Cholo's anger leads to the whole Dead Reckoning issue, and yet his greed takes over. Though before the end of the film, he recovers himself for one last hurrah. Hopper was one of the chief complaints of many reviews I've read, yet I thought he delivered a perfectly cold and calculating Executive who didn't want the flow of things disturbed, and went so far as to have people killed to prevent this. When he confronts Big Daddy in the final chapter of the film his line perfectly echo's his inability to let go of the old way of life. "What gives you the right!" He should in fact, turn this around on himself.

Gorehounds need not fear, as Romero delivers in the bucketload. I was, and still am amazed at how much he managed to get into the R, because we see intestines, people being ripped in half, people falling on their own grenades and being blown in half, squibs, latex bites (YES!), heads falling off, brains being splattered, arms, legs, hands, feet, spines. We see the entire thing, and it's thoroughly satisfying. Greg Nicotero did a wonderful job with the visuals and I can't wait to see what else was meant to be in the film on the uncut dvd.

In my opinion, even though the filming and the film itself has gotten better, the movie felt old. Much like I read on another review, it oozed of the classic style of filmmaking, where dialogue was driven by the characters and not words, and where the story had a loose destination, but was more about how they got there, not when they got there. While most films now tend to focus too much on entertainment, to the point where the audience taps their foot impatiently waiting for the next action scene, Romero succeeds in giving us characters we care about. He makes us enjoy the conversations they have, the interactions, and makes us look deeper into the movie, leaving the commentary wide open for interpretation as Nova said. It's very hard to rate this film against the other Dead movies, and as such, I won't. But I will say that this movie was thouroughly satisfying, and a completely and utterly worthy entry into the Holy Trilogy.