Everyone knows the music of Ray Charles but very few people know his real life story. This is a wonderful if sad movie about the musician's life. I

can now understand why Jamie Foxx won best actor. The role he had to

perform was both physically and emotionally challenging. What I found even more amazing is that I didn't once think 'this is Jamie Foxx and I wonder  what he is thinking,' during the whole movie.

Jamie as Ray was excellent. I also liked how at the end they showed clips of the real Ray Charles and some photographs. One of the things I couldn't help but think about during the movie was how strong Ray's mother was.She lost one son to a horrible, fatal accident and then her other child went blind. I couldn't even begin to imagine what that was like. She had o act cruel so that Ray could learn how to defend himself, and she said to Ray 'Don't ever let anyone make you become a cripple.'  (Or words to that effect.)

All of the other actors gave very strong performances as well. I especially loved Curtis Armstrong as Ahmet Ertegun. For some reason I just thought that he was great to watch, although everyone was good. I didn't know a lotabout Ray but not only did I learn about Ray but I also learned about the time that he lived in. I thought it was so sad at the beginning of the movie, when Ray and the other African Americans had to sit at the back of the bus and how they had a sign with the word 'colored' on it.

 

I didn't realize how much Ray was so deeply into dope. It was really hard to watch the rehabilitation scenes. This is one of those parts in the movies where I felt the film should had been rated R. These scenes where very graphic and intense.

I hadn't known that Ray was friends with Quincy Jones or the fact that he had a mistress. I thought that was very sad. But I found it even more sad that his mistress O.D.'d and left behind their illegitimate son.

But I'm getting ahead of myself. This is a really good movie. It was not only entertaining but it made me really think about the time that Ray was living in as well.