1/19/10

  I can't say enough about this movie. I watched it as a teenager many moons ago and I have never forgotten it. In time I had forgotten the title of the movie but never the message. The story is about two people their names are Laura Jesson and Dr. Alec Harvey who keep bumping into each other accidentally and eventually fall in love and have to make choices.
  You watch their relationship grow knowing each is married. She is the spark that is missing in his life and he gives her the attention she so desperately lacks from her husband. The doctor does tell her how much he loves her and she does him and they all seem so deliciously happy. Weeks pass, their love for each other gets stronger and questions,doubt and deceit start to enter into the picture. It is at this point she starts to struggles with right and wrong. He seems to have no problem about leaving his wife for her but she is having a much harder time deciding if she should leave her husband and family. He drops the final bomb on her when he tells her he has an opportunity to work in Africa and wants her to come with him. She has got one week to decide. The movie ends where it began at the train station. Laura and the doctor are sitting quietly at a table when an old chatty friend of hers joins them. The whistle blows, it's the doctors train he gets up and says goodbye. Laura sits frozen not able to show any emotion in front of her friend while she watches the doctor leave forever.
  Laura is back home sitting in her living room with her husband. Her expression is one of pain as he stares at her. He knows there is a problem. He ask's her,"whatever your dream was,it wasn't a very happy one, was it?" No she tells him."You've been a long way away. Thank you for coming back to me."  It was at that point that I realized her huband new what was going.
  Laura made the right choice in that she put her family first and not herself. It takes a very strong person to do that. I admire that in an individual, the ability to do what is right not what you feel.
  The  music Rachmaninoff Piano Concertono.2 is another factor as to why this movie is so good! A classic well worth seeing and a theme that never goes out of date.Enjoy!