Four years on, Kurt Wimmer, writer/director of Equilibrium has taken another shot at trying to create a Sci-Fi Epic. Unfortunately, instead of taking a step forward from Equilibrium, he has taken a step back.

Ultraviolet is the story of Violet (Milla Jovovich), a woman who only has thirty-six hours to live. Violet lives in a world torn apart by a Civil War between the Humans and the Hemophages. Violet is a Hemophage - a disease modified human - and as a result of this disease, she is faster, stronger and her senses are more acute. Humans fear the Hemophages, as despite their abilities, they have a short life span. In Violet's world, the Humans control and regulate an oppressive regime trying to exterminate this new breed of creatures and forcing them underground. Violet is fighting against this, and the closer she gets to death the more determined she becomes to live!

As the movie opens, Violet is infiltrating a human research centre. She has been sent to retrieve a package, which turns out to have a nine-year-old child inside. On realising that the child is wanted dead by both the Humans and the Hemophages, Violet decides to protect him.

Yes, I know what you thinking, this plot actually sounds like it could be from a great Sci-fi movie, and you're right, it could have been. To be honest, most movies based on comic books usually have a great premise, and I do think that Ultraviolet could have been a great film but, unfortunately, something went wrong.

It isn't Milla's fault; she looks great in "Kill Bill-style" outfits that seem to constantly change colour depending on her mood (I want some of those colour changing outfits!) Jovovich suits this genre as she has proved in such films as Fifth Element and Resident Evil. (I just hope that someday she will get a vehicle that will push forward her talent instead of holding it back). Milla does her best in a movie that is never sure where it wants to take its audience or even what sort of world it wants its audience to see.

The movie opens by giving us quite a beautiful vision of the future. (It may be a totalitarian regime, but at least it's picturesque!) The opening scenes have quite a surreal, dream-like quality, which would have been impressive had they carried this throughout the movie. However, we are reminded that this is totally a CGI-enhanced world by constant interruptions of actual, purpose built sets. If you are going to use animation and CGI, that's fine - but you can't show us another world that's completely different from our own and intersect it with scenes that could be seen in any film set in the present day. This lack of consistency constantly stops the audience from being pulled into this other world, which makes the story seem unbelievable.

Also, one of the prerequisites of an action movie is elaborate, well-choreographed fight scenes. There are many action sequences in Ultraviolet, but they are all very similar. Violet is fighting off a series of masked attackers again and again. It just seems to be the same scene, only the bad guys are wearing different outfits in each battle.

All in all, Ultraviolet could have been a great summer film, but too much CGI or, you could argue, not enough - is too distracting for the audience to become fully immersed in the film or the plot. Instead of going to see it, rent The Matrix, or even Equilibrium and hope that Kurt Wimmer will one day be able to improve on Equilibrium, as Equlibrium was a very promising first attempt.