This wasn't immediately one of my favorite Bollywood flicks. I love Kajol and SRK together. But it was a little too 90's for me at first. (The clothes, people the clothes! Doesn't it make you laugh to think , we actually used to wear stuff like that? And yes, I realize in a few years, I'll probably be saying that about what I'm wearing now.) Anyway, the first half was a little hard for me, though it has some wonderful scenes. I like when SRK sneaks into Rani's bedroom, and when SRK and Kajol wish on a star together. And when SRK a.k.a. Rahul tells Kajol a.k.a. Anjali that he loves Rani a.k.a. Tina, well done! (Was that a little confusing to anyone else? And I wrote it!) But at the same time, I was rooting a bit too much for Anjali, and not enough for Tina that it made it hard to be even a little happy when they got together. Know what I mean? But I can understand, how Tina would want for Rahul to be happy when she was gone, and especially with Anjali whom she knew he already loved. I just wish she would have had the courage to tell him no before they got married and she died. And then he could have realized 'how wrong he was and discovered his true love for Ajali' like 8 years earlier. And we wouldn't have had to break poor Aman's heart too. And don't you think that Aman and Tina would have been a good pair? But too bad, she died. In the end I was very glad that Anjali got who she wanted the whole time, but yeah, I just sort of wanted to slap Rahul for being a little too spoilt.(I really hated the snapping scene.)  He didn't really deserve what he got. But, the songs were great. Dancing was great. Especially the engagement dance. Hello, athletic! The little pavilion scene was very touching. I loved Anjali. This was the first real Bollywood movie that my little sister saw and she loved it. I probably would have liked it more if I hadn't seen DDLJ first, which seemed on the whole more complete to me. Still, good movie. Worth the time it takes to watch it, and that's saying something, as you well know if you've ever watched a Bollywood movie.