Before anything else, I have to say that Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai is definitely a love it or hate it movie. As for myself, I absolutely loved it.
Why did I love it? Well it is one thing for a movie or story to be entertaining. Schwarzenegger and Stallone entertain. But for any story, whether it be a book, movie, or what have you stand out and be truly good, (at least in my humble opinion), it must do at least one of three things; move you, make you think, or be deep enough that you find new things every time you see it. Ghost Dog does all three for me.
As for the plot, you can read about it elsewhere, and it is not the main strength of the movie, so I will summarize it quickly. Ghost Dog is a hitman who religiously follows the code of Samurai. Ghost Dog is the retainer, or follower of a Mafia capo named Louie, who saved his life years earlier. Ghost Dog has performed a number of perfect hits for Louie and his crime family, but when the latest one goes awry, he finds himself at odds with the crime family, who are now trying to find and kill the mysterious warrior.
As I mentioned, it is not the plot that is the strength of the movie, but rather the characters. Jarsmuch's writing and vision, (and Forrest Whitaker's superb performance), help create an unforgettable character and do something rarely accomplished in film which is bring true humanity to a very odd, and at times, violent man. Furthermore, this is done with a rare appreciation of subtlety and minimalism, quite rare in this day when films, books and movies prefer to hit their audiences over the head with a sledgehammer as opposed to challenging them and take the dreaded risk that they might not get it.
As for making you think, Ghost Dog is very much a story of ideas and layers that take time, (and repeated, careful viewing) to fully come to light. For example, besides the obvious revenge plot of the movie, just a few of the other themes that are explored include; the study of a man who is a killer and yet is also a person we like and respect. A look at cultures and men on the edge of extinction. The bonds of friendship, and loyalty. The meaning of honor. What it means to devote one's life and purpose to a code of behavior. The clash of ancient ways versus modern ones. A look at a profoundly world weary man. The slow death of old cultures and myths in modern America. Reality vs. artificiality. Loneliness and reaching out to others. Looking at violence as both poetic (Ghost Dog's practicing martial arts and his battle against the gangsters in Ray Vargo's house), and cold-hearted and brutal, (the Mafia's violence on innocents, Ghost Dog's assassinations). The interaction between different generations, moralities, and codes of conduct. And this is just what I can come up with off the top of my head!
Secondly, Ghost Dog is also a film of tragedy; an art too often eschewed these days for the proverbial happy ending. The tragedies too happen on many levels and come from many angles, even some from the "bad guys!" First off, Ghost dog himself is obviously a tragic figure, both in the fact that he is man following a way of life that effectively ended centuries ago and then there is his fate, which I will not spoil. There is the tragedy of Ghost Dog devoting his life to Louie, an obviously lesser man. There is the spark of nobility we see in Ray Vargo, who knows that Ghost Dog is coming to kill him, and yet meats this with a calm stoicism to match Ghost Dog's.
And yet, for all that the film gives us, it also holds key things back, leaving us with unsolvable mysterious that make us wonder and keep guessing long after we first see it. For example, what caused Ghost Dog, an obviously gentle man, to take up the code of the samurai and become a remorseless killer? Who was Ghost Dog before these events? And then there are the things that can be interpreted endlessly, like the use of the cartoons, Rashoman, certain symbolism, etc.
And while I have to apologize for the length of this (although this is one of my favorite movies, I didn't mean to go on THIS long!), I have one last thing to say, and this is aimed at the people who claimed that the movie makes no sense or isn't realistic enough. It's not meant to be. The movie is a surreal look at things, and an allegory. It's not strictly based in reality. It's a case where the message or ideas the writer is trying to convey is more important than basing all the minutia of the story completely in the real world. In other words, don't take it too literally. Instead, sit back, keep an open mind, and maybe you'll enjoy a great movie experience.