A "sentinal" (or sentry) stands watch, exercises  vigilance and generally keeps an eye on things to protect the integrity of what (s)he is charged with guarding.  This film could have used its own sentinal, for it has many good things in it worth defending, but is spoiled by bad storytelling, cobbled and disjointed to the point that one wants to send it back to the screenwriters for another draft session.  This is a great disappointment, as the film has so many potential assets (as other web critics have pointed out:  a good cast, good sets, good cinematography, etc., etc.  As others have adequately covered the plot synopsis and pointed out the specific major defects, I offer my own list of additional comments:

(1) Originality:  Some complain (wrongly) that this film has an unoriginal plot. It is a genre film; just as westerns end up with a confrontation between the good cowboy and the villain, mysteries end up with the detective solving the case, and romances end with the couple getting together in the end (light romance) or are prevented by circumstance from ever getting together (dark romance).  Originality does not begin and end with "a new story"; if it did, there would be less than a couple of dozen movies (of all kinds) in the last century.  Just as a portrait painter relies on the freshness of detail (and his/her skills as a painter) in rendering a person's likeness, rather than attempt a rearrangement of basic facial features -- "*two* noses -- how original!"), movie "originality" lies mainly with the art of telling of the story (even if the story framework is not itself oringinal ).  Look at successful and intriguing (and non-original) genre films that fit into the categories I have just cited:  "The Unforgiven" (godd-guy-vs-bad-guy-western), "A Perect Murder" (not only a flat-out remake of an archtype murder mystery, but a Michael Dougls film!), "Sleepless in Seattle" (light (as a souffle) romance that captured the public's heart), and "Brokeback Mountain" (despite its "controversial" subject matter, a tragic love story whose basic structure and content ("unrequited and forbidden" true love frustrated by circumstance) is lifted straight out of the Middle Ages ("Tristan and Isolde" and Troilus and Cressida" comes to mind).

Originality in these stories (does anyone think of Clint Eastwood's "The Unforgiven" as a *formulaic* western?) comes from the carefully worked out details, not the "original subject, or gimmick".  If this sort of shallow "originality" was what the filmmakers (and the public) were really seeking, "The Sentinal" could have ended with First Lady Basinger and Agent Douglas eloping to Tahiti -- or to Cincinatti.  Even better:  First Lady Basinger and Agent Longoria tending sheep at Brokeback Mountain -- well, it *would* be "origina"l.

 2) Acting:  the main character actors and even most of the supporting cast are good actors who did a fine job -- as fine as the film would allow.  I don't need to defend any of them.  Douglas and Sutherland are in their element, having grown into the sort of roles their fathers played so well, while Kim Basinger actually makes her physical age an asset in her role as a first lady (married to a comparably aged president), and manages to make her presence as a government dignitary (and not as a Bond girl, as she once was) believable.

Much has been made of Eva Longoria, either as an acting hack, or as mere eye-candy.  This simply is not fair; she did what she could with an extremely limited and -- as some here have observed -- a secondary or even tertiary role.  Anyone who has seen her in converstion on late night talk shows -- even better as the guest host on "Saturday Night Live" -- know her to be an intrelligent, bright, quick, sharp and highly talented, trained and versatile (her rendition of Lucy Ricardo on SNL was dead-on and deadly funny) actor for whom "Desperate Housewives" should be no more than a thespic stepping stone.  Her acting abilities (heck, even Britney Spears' acting abilities) are not tapped in this film.  She is given so little to do (she doesn't even get to fetch coffee for the guys) and has so little interaction with the other characters (or involvement in the plot), it is surprising that she even took the role (except as a platform for better roles, -- may she get them).

(3) The real problem -- and this is what is so disappointing about "The Sentinal" -- is that its viewers come in with reasonably high expectations for an intelligent, slick, suspenseful summer thriller, and don't get to see one.  The problem lies partly with the screen writing (did the writers even read-aloud their own script?) and mostly with the incredibly disjointed presentation of the story.  Blame the writers, the film editor, continuity, the director -- whoever is responsible for such things, and who let this draft of a film slip through the production process.  This film has the same structural flaws that a comedy does in which the delivery is not well-set-up, the punchlines are blown, and the essential "atmosphere" is not established, much less maintained.  One only has to look to "In the Line of Fire" to contrast the expertise in generating a taut, suspenseful and constantly engaging film.  (ITLOF was NOT "original" -- it, too, was a "genre film", of a kind going back more than fifty years -- but it was served up well.)  The "flow" of "The Sentinal" is attention-deficit-disorder-slug-like, the individual scenes so poorly cobbled together and the sequence of events so disjointed there is no chance for suspense, or even casual interest, to germinate.  Other critics talk of loose plot "threads".  This is a complete understatement.  There are a huge number of "threads" so short and loose they come out as dryer lint. (Only) one excruciatingly annoying example offered here:  the laborious, utterly pointless and thoroughly baffling (for the audience) "Las Palmas Restaurant" sequence.  Douglas is summoned (by mysterious phone call) to meet with "someone" who never shows up (think of Samuel Beckett's play, "Waiting for Godot").  Brushing aside the fact that many minutes of film time are spent with the audience watching Douglas pretending to read a newspaper (for four hours!) to no clear end (the putative purpose of this scene is to frame a "link" between Douglas and a drug cartel, a which is dispelled -- flatly dismissed -- soon after (as the plot clock ticks away).  A junior writer would have excised this entire scene (along with a confusing and unproductive and suspense-killing mall-chase scene that falls flat), or, made something substantial out of it.  This time killing episode contrasts sharply with, say, Douglas at the restaurant (or in other scenes) in "The Game", where every second exudes fear, uncertainly and suspense thick enough to carve into slabs.

"The Sentinal" could have *easily* been tweaked into at least decent summer suspense fare -- had anyone in charge bothered to do so.  The actors' (and other's) talents have been wasted in this film, along with the audience's time, money and patience.  This is sad.  Hollywood certainly knows how to make a good action/suspense film -- it does it all the time.  This movie is like a half-baked dish prepared by a distracted -- or perhaps lazy, cynical and disgruntled -- chef.  It ought to have been sent back and finished properly, if only out of respect for the patrons (audience) and restaurant staff (actors, et al) who entered this project in good faith, but were set up as badly as Douglas's secret service character.  -RDB