Let me start out by saying that I don't like horror movies or any movie where the entertainment is derived from someone intentionally and repeatedly inflicting physical and/or mental pain on someone else.  I do however enjoy a good suspenseful thriller that delivers some kind of spiritual message about life and death and was hoping that this movie would be such a film.

I knew nothing about this movie (had never even heard of it - that should have raised a flag right there) and picked it up on a whim, basing my decision soley on the strength of the cast and the potential of the story line.  The cast definitely delivered (and they are why I gave this movie any stars at all), given the script with which they were working.  Liam Neeson is excellent as the undertaker.  He comes across as benevolent, caring, calming and classy.  Justin Long delivers as the tormented by guilt, well-meaning boyfriend.  And Christina Ricci is great as someone who has seemingly lost her ability to truly love and be loved.

Through the first half of the movie, I kept flip-flopping on my understanding of what was going on:  Anna is dead, but is in denial and Eliot is really a Ghost Whisperer kind of a guy, trying to help her.  Then something would happen to make me think that Eliot is a wacko, holding a very much alive Anna against her will.  Then I'd go back to my original thinking.

By the end of the movie it becomes apparent (at least to me) that Eliot is indeed a wacko.  I just don't get WHY he does what he does:  causes accidents with his white van (which apparently no one ever witnesses at the accidents), gets to the victim first, drugs them to make them appear that they're dead, receives them at his funeral home so he can mess with their minds, and then buries them alive!?!

The GOOD: Acting, setting and cinematography.
The BAD: Implausible plot, wasted potential plot developments, gratuitous nudity (although if I looked as good as Christina Ricci, I may want to show it off too), continuity issues - Anna's hair kept changing from red to brunette, and weird flashback/dream sequences that didn't enhance the story.  Here's an example of the wasted plot development: I thought that the little boy, Jack, might actually be a ghost as I'm sure I saw his picture on the wall next to Mrs. Whitehall and his mother didn't come to pick him up at school.  Jack's mother didn't react to him when he was speaking to her, but she reacted to the sound of the door slamming when he left.  But apparently Jack wasn't a ghost, so why the ghost-like set up? Just more confusion in an already confusing movie.

I was really hoping that this would be one of those movies that has an ending that ties everything together and you say to yourself, "Man, that was incredible - how did I miss that?"  Think "Sixth Sense".  But no - sadly this movie just left me with a very unpleasant, flat feeling.  There was almost a glimmer of hope for this movie when it seems like Paul and Anna reunite in the afterlife at the end.  But that was quickly shattered by the last scene.  What exactly was the point to this movie?  I wish now that I hadn't rented and watched it.  :(