Every now and then you come across a work, say a movie, a book, a piece of music, which moves you so entirely, you will never look at life quite the same ever again. SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGE, the DVD, a staged production of the Stephen Sondheim, James Lapine Broadway musical is an unconventional show, sometimes more in the tradition of a Gilbert & Sullivan opera, in that the music is truly, as joked in the musical's book, 'variations on a theme'; one long sweep of music that climaxes in a powerful finale, bound to shake up the heart, and enlighten the mind.

The synopsis of the play is bound to chase some away, as it did me for many years. It is a fictional account of real life 19th Century Parisian artist, Georges Seurat, and his attempts to finish his masterwork, "Sunday Afternoon On The Isle of La Grande Jatte", as the Paris art community ridicules the work in progress, and stands defiantly against the finished piece. During Act 2, you are rudely whisked away 100 years into the future, where a monstrous piece of art; a metallic iron lung, shell-like object, is beaming laser beams and playing new age-like music to a less than enthusiastic crowd of artists and would-be admirers. It is the work of the great grandson of Georges Seurat, who faces the same doubt and betrayal from his peers.

The sad history of the artwork, brought to the front in a matter-of-fact way during a presentation during Act 2, in which aged daughter, (Bernadette Peters), and great grandson, (Mandy Pantinkin), recount the likes of Renoir and other famous painters of the era, retracting their entries into an art exhibit when it is learned, "Sunday Afternoon On The Isle...", would be included, brings characteristic emotional depth to the painting which is now regarded as a treasured piece of art, and indeed the painting is the star of the show, even taking a majestic bow during the closing curtain call.

It sounds dry, but this is all very light-hearted, with traditional musical comedy amusements, which surmount to a power sucker punch of sadness, humanity and beauty, as the cast gathers for the final song. Get out your handkerchiefs. The cast is exemplary; Mandy Pantinkin delivers an alarmingly spiritualized tenor proclaiming the beauty of art, sure to send shivers your way, and Bernadette Peters, is aglow with an empathetic characterization, full of conviction and grace, rarely realized in a musical.

Just a quibble. An annoying, but tolerable 'feed-front', (the dialogue is heard just slightly before it is spoken, it seems to happen often in these taped DVDs), can be heard distractingly at the quiter moments. Mandy Pantinkin, Bernadette Peters, Stephen Sondheim and writer James Lapine provide audio commentary.