Jennifer Lopez - "Maid in Manhattan" (Columbia, 2002)
I watched this movie with my wife and although she liked it (perhaps because it truly is a "chick flick"), I was a little disgusted by the predictability of the whole film. But there were redeeming moments that kept me from scoffing during the movie.
You read the less-than-four-star reviews here and they're all accurate. The story starts when a maid named Marisa (Jennifer Lopez) notices cute politician Chris Marshall (played by Ralph Fiennes) while cleaning his hotel room. Chris and his publicist take the elevator down and run into a kid (Tyler Posley) who just happens to be Marisa's son, Ty. He was staying in the building because he had to come with Marisa to work due to his deadbeat father cancelling his plans with him. After being impressed with Ty's political views, Chris had to see his mother. 
Meanwhile, Marisa was cleaning a snobbish guest's vacant room and was peer-pressured by a co-worker to try on the guest's wardrobe. Chris and Ty walk into the room and see Marisa in the beautiful wardrobe. The co-worker tells Chris that Marisa's name is that of the guest who stays in that room; Marisa doesn't "have time" to tell him the truth as Chris takes her and her son out to kick it.
You pretty much know what will happen from that point. Girl is told that she has to stop seeing him to protect her job (in this case, a promotion to management), girl tries to tell boy the truth about herself but gets interrupted by the boy telling his feelings to her, boy finds out the truth from someone else, girl is embarrassed (and fired for stealing a guest's clothes), girl gives the ol' "you-wouldn't-like-me-if-I-told-you-the-truth-about-myself" line, someone comes and convinces boy to take her back (Ty, the obligatory boy who has an adult brain), and boy gets the girl. 
But rewind a little bit to the ball where Marisa is invited to by Chris. Marisa is made-over into a beautiful woman but she only comes to tell Chris the truth. When spotted by the same guest she borrowed the clothes from, she splits while Chris chases her. This scene is so painfully Cinderella-esque that I was waiting for Marisa to leave a glass slipper.
So why did I give this three stars instead of two? Because there are two interesting scenes; one is where Marisa confronts her friend for signing her up to become manager, and when Marisa and her co-workers start dancing before they help her find a dress for the ball. They dance to Diana Ross's "I'm Coming Out" (by the way, where did the music come from?).
Overall, if you see the movie, you may not want to see it again because you saw it many times before, if you know what I mean. -EJR