
I rewatched this movie just last night (April 13th, 2003), to see what messages it actually uses to play on people's fears and misconceptions about the world around America. At times embarassing, at times eerily in tune with current events, and at all times constantly questioning one's own common sense. Hollywood is always seeking to entertain and distract its audience, but putting such political issues in focus without any thought or plausibility insults those with any mind to question.
Let's just say this is a theatre piece, and dramatic elements have to be employed to add to the plot or sequence of events. That this, and so many movies of its kind employ the use of Russians as the enemy (usually using a British actor to supply the villainy) perpetuates stereotypes and misinformation that has existed since the Cold War's birth. I loved the fact that America was seen as a bastion of technology, with blinking lights and computer screens, and intercoms, technology at the helm, while Russia and its leader had a little red phone and a bear on his table. Fantastic. It automatically sets up a perception that Russia is weaker on all fronts, and the victor will always be America, so the whole premise of the film being America in danger is compromised by its visualisation of its power as compared to Eastern Europe. It throws the whole plot out the window by default. 
Apart from its Nationalistic stance, the dialogue of the film borders on the ludicrous to outright childlike. The only bite that is heard in this film is from the actual enemy (portrayed by Gary Oldman) when questioning the President's (Harrison Ford) moral constitute when dealing with his Oldman's homeland. The points raised were the only plausible or believeable lines in this movie, but it all too quickly falls into the 'remake Rambo' style of filmmaking too many times. This is just entertainment for the masses, and does not ask any questions of moral fortitude or revenge, or anything actually relevant to anything in any real world situation. Should I take this movie just as it is, entertainment, or for what it represents, 'Horse Blinker' propaganda aimed at the public.
I cannot guess why films like this get made???? All that money wasted on a piece of junk. The CGI throughout is quite weak, especially the 'crash' at the end which pays no heed to what a plane would actually do when hitting the water, which WOULD have been far more dramatic a conclusion, if they just paid attention to physics. It was actually hilarious. 
I think the scariest bit had to be the speech at the beginning of the film by Harrison Ford. I've heard it before somewhere....
Don't waste your time, money, patience, eyesight, hearing or mind on this huge waste of finances. I can't believe some of the actors actually did.