I'm an undergraduate in history at Harvard, and I've studied the Russian Revolution with some degree of depth, but all the books in the world could never succeed in doing what "Reds" did for me, which was truly to give me a feeling for what it FELT like to experience those events.  The political atmosphere, the material environments, all of these are meticulously (and rather accurately) reproduced, and all of this is combined with a compelling narrative propelled by difficult personal and political choices that the main characters must make.

(Examples:  Support Woodrow Wilson or not?  Struggle for the revolution in the USA or Russia?  Concerning the Russian workers, whether going on strike will be a betrayal of their Russian soldiers and American allies, or whether that would be a comradely gesture that would set an example and ignite revolution around the whole world?  Accept the Bolshevik rationalizations for their dictatorial ways, or reject the Bolsheviks?  Etc.  The movie doesn't just pose such questions; the movie shows how ordinary people (soldiers, workers), as well as the main characters, wrestled with these questions, and the window into this history that the movie provides is simply fascinating.)

That's what truly makes the movie work:  the detail and sophistication given to the intricate political questions.  For these, the movie does not prescribe normative answers, only a view to how these particular characters responded.  I really do not understand the reviews arguing that "Reds" glorifies communism or the Soviet Union.  Reds includes plenty of hard-hitting skepticism and criticism of communism and the Soviet Union from the likes of Emma Goldman, Jack Nicholson's O'Neill, and some of the documentary-style witnesses.  It would have been much easier to make a movie that hammers a single, unified message into the viewer, but "Reds" doesn't do that.  Throughout, the movie constantly confronts the characters and viewers with tough questions:  was the revolution worth it?  Are Reed and Bryant deluding themselves, as O'Neill claims?  Which comes first, revolution or love?  Are they mutually exclusive?  What does it take for a person like Reed to balance between being an objective journalist, a creative artist, a partisan for his true political feelings, and a lover to his wife?  Questions like these (that the film never definitely tries to solve for the viewer) are what keep the viewer gripped to the movie and make every minute of the 3 and a half-hour movie worth it.  The only thing that this movie demands from the viewer is an open mind, and unfortunately it seems that that is too much to ask from some viewers.