Just as I dreaded the prospect of seeing a modern re-make of Psycho, so I dread going to see Pearl Harbor, given the extremely high bar set by its predecessor, Tora Tora Tora.  Let me say right at the outset that I consider this one of the best war films ever made.  Certainly, it has its weaknesses -- there is not the kind of character development you find in a dramatic film such as From Here to Eternity.  Tora Tora Tora is essentially a documentary film, and in that vein it is practically unsurpassed.  The technical accuracy is incredible, especially for a film from the days before computer-generated effects.  Unlike Pearl Harbor, which attempts to pass off Vietnam-era ships as WWII vintage (promotional shots for the movie show the frigate USS Whipple, commissioned in 1971, being bombed by the Japanese in 1941), the ships in Tora Tora Tora accurately depict the ships that were involved in the attack.  They might be miniatures, but at least they're accurate miniatures!  And although the Japanese planes are not authentic -- I believe there are only two authentic Zeros still flying in the world today -- the reproduction planes used in the movie are so convincing that they're still being used in vintage airshows today.  The sets -- including a full-size mock-up of the Japanese battleship Nagato -- are beautifully executed.  And the action sequences are wrenchingly poignant.
Part of the enduring appeal of this movie is its balance in depicting very politically sensitive events.  Japanese and American movie makers collaborated on the movie, and as a result the Japanese who participated in the attack are neither glorified nor villified -- just men caught in a momentous historical moment, some enthusiastically and some reluctantly.  Nonetheless, the full infamy of the attack is impressed on the viewer.  Far better to directly and straight-forwardly address these critical aspects of the attack than to avoid or ignore them, which is what I fear may be the case in Pearl Harbor.