I have watched this film three times now and I appreciate it more each time. I am disappointed that it did not receive more recognition from the critics. But then, it's not the first great movie that slipped by under their radar.

I think the actress who played the mother provided one of the best performances I have seen in years. In the scene following the funeral where son and father embrace in a desperate effort to recreate a damaged relationship, the mother's reaction is one of the most touching moments I have ever seen on film. So simple, so understated, so moving.

I think the father's performance was outstanding also. The actor who played Zac would probably win the viewer's poll as the best performance in the movie, and that choice would probably be pooh-poohed by those who consider themselves critics above the pack. But on reflection, I think he did a laudable job of holding his centerpiece performance in check. It would have been so easy to overdo it and lose the realism he achieved.

Taken on the whole, every performance was so natural, so real, so convincing, that I find myself wondering how the surviving Beaulieus are doing today.

None of those performances could have been realized without a screenplay and direction that resounds with truth.

In another sense, this movie is like a painting. It is perfectly symmetrical. There is the forced march through the blizzard and the flight across the searing desert. There is the marijuana shotgun and the asthma inhaler. In every event in the film, there is balance not only of circumstance, but also of significance. The mystical elements of the healing powers and the religious faith are balanced by the gritty realism of the family conflicts and the post-pubertal priapism. What a powerful way to emphasize the symbolic as well as the real identities of the characters.

The symbolism is as playful as it is serious. From the twin smokestacks to the use of the inhaler, the symbols appear exactly when and where they should.

The soundtrack is very near perfect. I have heard it compared to the music from Trainspotting, but it really isn't fair to compare the Trainspotting soundtrack to that of C.R.A.Z.Y. In the former case, the extraordinary soundtrack must not stray from the relatively direct path the film follows. In the latter, there is no direct path, rather a serendipitous wandering that imitates life. If C.R.A.Z.Y. were constructed like Trainspotting, then the casual viewer would remember only the Stones and Bowie and Floyd. But it isn't. Therefore, the choices of Cline and Aznavour for natural and that ethereal Sheremetiev chant for supernatural are spot on. The L'Elisir d'Amore aria playing behind (and in front of) the drunken brawl at the family Christmas table was pure art. A choice every bit as superb as the choice of Lou Reed's "Perfect Day" in Trainspotting.

Turn off the phone and watch this film.