Short Review: 4/5The crew of 'Star Trek' warp into the past to save the world, the whales, and their franchise. Leonard Nimoy directs this light sci-fi romp. A thoroughly enjoyable film with a surprisingly wide appeal.Acting: 4/5The cast is comfortable in this, their fourth movie in the first twenty years of 'Star Trek.' As Shatner and Nimoy enjoy the best onscreen chemistry of any of the six Original Series films, the supporting cast gets better airtime than ever before. The separation of Doohan, Kelley, Nichols, Koenig, and Takei from Shatner and Nimoy was a good move, and allowed their characters to breath a little more.Supporting cast includes some surprises including Mark Lenard (Sarek) and Majel Barett-Roddenberry (Chapel) among others 'Trek' alums. Their roles seem to exist primarily to ground the viewers in the future and thus are somewhat superfluous. True fans will probably beg to differ!The main 'guest star' is Catherine Hicks, now known as the mother on the WB television drama '7th Heaven.' Hicks is fun and surprisingly believable in her plight to save the two Humpback whales.Directing: 3/5Nimoy showed Paramount that he could be trusted with tens of millions of dollars in directing when he helmed 'Star Trek III: The Search for Spock.' But in that film, he appeared onscreen for mere minutes. Here he has considerable screen time, so I was a bit concerned. Nimoy handled the plot and the comedy admirably.The DVD (and Director's Series VHS edition) contains an interesting featurette with Nimoy, which unfortunately was transferred from video and is somewhat pixelated.Special and Visual Effects: 5/5On-stage effects are spectacular. The Humpback whale mock-ups are the most believable whales created to date. The detail and accuracy of movement made things work so nicely you'll scarcely think about the whales as effects at all.Visual effects are stunning as well. ILM used some fantastic techniques in models and computer graphics to create a compelling visual look to the second unit footage. Scenes to watch for are the 'dream flight' sequence toward the beginning and the bird of prey crashing into the ocean at the end. Picture: 4.5/5The picture is quite clear, with the possibly exception of the 'wet' scenes, which get a bit murky and blue. Artifacts are minimal elsewhere.Sound: 4/5Good but not excellent sound effects and wonderful tracked music enhance the film greatly. An attached stereo will do wonders for the movie experience. (Popcorn doesn't hurt either).Advice:Pay full price and enjoy the show.