I can still recall my youthful evenings watching television at home and my parents settling in to watch what appeared to be a too-cool-for-an-eight-year-old-kid-to-watch-show, Miami Vice. The television series ran for five seasons on NBC, from 1984-1989. But the action and drama of the show still sucked me in. Alongside favorites like Knight Rider, Riptide and The A-Team, Miami Vice seemed uber-cool, even if I spent a lot of the time confused about the more complex plots.

With nostalgia driving the way, it was only a matter of time that director Michael Mann revisited his creation. On July 28, 2006, fans got what they wanted when Miami Vice hit the big screen, 17 years after the original series left the airwaves, with Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx as lead characters Crockett and Tubbs.

As long as I can remember, Michael Mann has always been one of my favorite producer-directors. The look and feel of his work is top notch, and this film is no exception. I almost forget about pacing and plot because the aesthetics of the film are so breathtaking. The visuals that made the original TV series innovative and provocative are ratcheted up in this film version, depicting a Miami bathed in sun drenched beauty and tanned with exotic locale and sweeping settings. Undercover vice cops Sonny Crockett and Ricardo Tubbs dress in the highest fashion, visit posh night clubs and drive exotic European sports cars.

While Mann sought to reinvent Miami Vice with the film, many of these traits are in direct homage to the original television series, updated and remixed with mid-2000s sensibilities.

The film itself is an intricate look inside a complex sting operation, where Crockett and Tubbs must go deep undercover to track down and bring to justice drug smuggling arms dealers who have killed three FBI agents and an informant. Simply put, it's a typical Miami Vice story, but told in such a complex manner that you really have to pay attention to make sure you don't miss anything.

The movie blends action with drama while showcasing Mann's excruciatingly detailed visual flair. As for the plot, critics reviews were mixed. However, many of the harsh reviews still praised the film as worthy entertainment.

This film updates a classic television franchise with a glossy, action-filled feature that packs enough wallop to satisfy casual fans with a hunger for complex, dramatic crime tales. This one ranks as one of my favorite crime dramas and you need not be a fan of the original TV series to watch and enjoy the film. Miami Vice would eventually gross $136 million at the box office.

(I originally posted this review at my website: jasonhink.com)