For those who reviewed this movie that stated that this movie was 'unreal' and this 'would not happen' and it's just a propaganda for the democrats are living in dream land. Maybe they are single, healthy and never get to go to the Dr., and are not aware of the pathetic state of health care of America. 
I've had to deal myself since my son was born. My son has Recessive Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa. His skin basically falls apart at the slightest touch. It is awful, brutal (see some clinical pics at my website, silviaskingdom.com). The only treatment that my son has is basically take care of the wounds, which cover, at times, as much as 60-75% of his body. Some of these wounds are chronic and take months to heal. Taking care of wounds is vital because if a bad infection occurs, my son could die. Infection is the number one killer of persons diagnosed with my son's condition. You would think that insurance companies would cover the medical supplies, the ointments, the bandages and everything involved in taking care of the wounds, but the reality is, the vast majority of HMOs do not. They don't because bandages and related products to care for wounds are 'over the counter', hence not covered under insurances. 
Sounds crazy? It is. And there is nothing I can do about it. Some states, if the income is low enough, provide some services that include coverage for bandages, and that is what fortunately is saving us, because I could never afford to pay the tens of thousands of dollars it takes each year just to purchase the various skin care products my son needs. I know what you're thinking... there is no way bandages cost that much! Yes they do actually... for example: an 8x10 sheet of Mepitel for deep wound coverage is $40. A roll of 1" gauze to bandage my son's hand is $1, and he goes through 4-6 of those per week, and that is just on his hands!
It gets crazier... the various HMOs that we've had over the years have also denied to have my son seen by specialists too because they were 'out of network'. Of course they are out of network, my son's condition is one in a million, we can't expect to see a 'specialist' on this condition in every corner of the country, are we?
I know what you're thinking... it's all my fault, yeah, the evil HMOs -- how dare they actually have the audacity to enforce the contracts people choose to purchase! Choose to purchase? I never had that choice. I never had the choice to choose between HMOs, let alone even have the opportunity to get PPOs. Medical care won't be legitimate in this country until we stop seeing ten-dollar boxes of Kleenex on the bills. Everyone gasps when I tell them how much my son's power chair cost... yes, $7,000, and there is no way it's worth that much. It is all outrageous, and the movie John Q. eloquently and  effectively addresses the needs of families in a most poignant manner.