... was this wicked DVD set! This is truly the set that Babylon 5 fans have been waiting for. Not only is it probably the production's best season, but the transfer and quality of the DVDs themselves is finally up to the level it should be. The encoding on all parts is clean, with the FX sequences all looking particularly crisp as compared to the previous two seasons. Also, the stock is much cleaner than that used in season two. No scratches to be seen in all 22 eps, and only minimal dust. Watching on a computer as I do, the visuals were all very sharp. Thankfully, that's the end of bad technical things that can be said about this set! Come on, bring on seasons four and five now!
Again, like season two, the story quality jumps miles ahead of where it was before. The actors have settled quite well into their characters, Bruce Boxleitner and Mira Furlan doing excellent jobs of showing the slow evolution of the relationship between their characters and how it comes to fruition. Andreas Katsulas and Peter Jurasik just steal the show at every opportunity, of course. Katsulas as G'Kar goes through probably the most profound and fascinating character change of any character in modern television history. Jurasik as Londo continues to sink deeper into the hell his character has made for himself. One of the biggest highlights about this season over any other pretty much anywhere is that there is that there is almost no filler episodes. The vast majority of episodes serve to advance the plot arc of the series and do a wonderful job of it.
The parade of unique things in sci-fi continue. While public bathrooms aren't seen here as they were in the previous season, they are mentioned once. Insect life -- and what some do to kill them -- adds a nice dose of humor early on. Someone takes the offer to leave in a tough situation. It is also the first time a post office is scene in a modern sci-fi series, and from the look of things, service has not improved much in 257 years. One of the most striking aspects is how religion is showed during in this series. Unlike some series, religion is never scored or used to give quick psychobabble answers. There is a genuine respect for it in the episodes (notably 4 and 20) that it appears. Drug addiction and self-rehabilitation are also tackled, with no quick and easy fixes used. Lastly, in the episode Severed Dreams, Babylon 5 makes the unique move of having their main cast fight against humans -- their own kind -- for survival, as opposed to some alien race.
The commentary is good, though not as good as season two. Straczynski is interesting as always and does not repeat stuff from before too often. The group commentary, this time given by Bruce Boxleitner, Jerry Doyle, Richard Biggs and Ed Wasser, while as funny as the previous group one, was far more chaotic. The actors tended to talk over each other a bit too much. These should definitely be cut back to just three people. Oh, and the gag-reel easteregg is back.
Over all, this is a fantastic DVD set, without question. The content, while always being excellent is now without argument top notch, the visuals on this disc have caught up with the content, and the cohesive and intelligent writing sets this above anything else out there. And to think, no one in television thought that a series like this one would ever work. 
It has been worth the wait just to get here! Now to take it home with the same style for the final two seasons.