"Robocop. Who is he? What is he? Where does he come from?" Like all cops, Robocop is a signifier of power, created from its lack: from  crime (both as desire for power and as measure of society's powerlessness),  from the failure of conventional police to stop crime, from Bob Morton's  need for clout in the competitive corporate world of Omni Consumer  Products, from OCP's need to control Old Detroit. Where does Robocop come  from? Utter helplessness, as Murphy - and with him the myth of American  individualism - is turned into Swiss cheese by Boddicker and his gang,  (further) dismembered by the medical and corporate establishment, and  "reborn" as Robocop: pure video intelligence, identity as screen  and switching center (Baudrillard). Created under the sign of sacrifice  ("We've restructured the police department and placed prime candidates  according to risk factor"), Robo, the image of impenetrability, exists  only through the vicious and total penetration of Murphy.
Individualism  and the unified subject are swiss-cheesed as early as the credit sequence,  when "ROBOCOP," in large block letters, bursts out from the  center of the screen, promising the subject as solid, substantial,  impermeable. A close look reveals the name to have holes in every letter.  Moreover, the camera goes right for - and through - the hole in the center  of the central "O." Robocop/Murphy is punctured before its/his  story even begins. As the camera goes for the "O," Robocop splits  into the conflicting identities of Rob and Cop: personal name/professional  function, criminal/law-enforcer.* This prefigures a world of endlessly  reconstructed subjects where Murphy becomes Robocop who becomes Murphy  again (or does he?), and where cops become cop killers and cop killers end  up working for the same people as the cops.
In its assault on the  subject, Robocop recalls the paradoxes at the heart of rugged  individualism. Given his hopelessly ambivalent relation to authority, the  American hero ends up an "individual" in uniform. The pioneer  becomes soldier, the private eye becomes cop. In its technoid version,  Robocop, the most unique figure in the movie, is also completely  manufactured: pure company man. Accordingly, Robo's claims to being  "Murphy" at film's end lie in wholesale identification with  "T.J. Laser," a high-tech TV hero. The biggest paradox of all is  that what little there is of Robocop's individuality - the remnant of  "humanity" and "soul" left over from Murphy - is the  very thing that enables him to become the most efficient technological  weapon in the movie. (ED 209, the machine with no prior human identity, is  just not dedicated, focused, "individualist," enough to become  the perfect killer cop.) American individualism becomes the final  indispensable ingredient in the corporate technification of American  identity.
  A monument to and of the body, Robocop is simultaneously  the denial of sex: the consummate American conflation of materialism and  Puritanism. Sexuality is not only denied, it is turned into violence:  Robocop as mock rapist, shooting a woman between the legs and having the  bullet pass through her dress, emasculating her captor.  The replacement of  sex by aggression means that (re)birth can occur only through violence,  continuing the legacy of American society since the Revolution and Civil  War. Murphy becomes Robocop only through brutal murder, followed by violent  resuscitation attempts at the hospital (equated, by crosscutting, with his  murder) and by a final dismemberment at OCP ("I thought we agreed on  total body prosthesis. Now lose the arm"). With the frontier long  since closed, and overpopulated urban centers imploding, American  regeneration becomes urban renewal. And the new society (Delta City)  becomes possible only through the wasting of the old (Old Detroit) with  high-powered weaponry such as ED 209 and Robocop. Manifest destiny becomes  an inalienable right to destroy existing property merely to build some  more.
Significantly, the new never comes - and this gets to the real crux  of contemporary American violence. Like American (non)sexuality, it's all  deterrence. Normally, deterrence is the creation of ever greater firepower  so nothing will happen. In Robocop what is deterred/deferred is not  violence but the creation of a new society. In fact the means (violence)  and the end (Delta City) are startlingly reversed, as Delta City is merely  used to justify the development of killer machines. As Robocop suggests,  American society must, at all costs, deter any situation that would  invalidate violence.
This too is a means to an end. What ceaseless  aggression really defers is not peace but the disturbing revelation peace  might bring: that aggression and the enormous American sign system of  violent power are, like Robocop, born out of profound and vertiginous lack.  The deafening blast of American weaponry keeps Uncle Sam from hearing the  silence.
Robocop's self-justifying cycle of aggression turns against  itself. The Stars Wars "Defense" system bombs Santa Barbara,  killing two former American presidents. The OCP war on crime turns  completely internecine: Morton vs. Jones, ED 209 vs. Robocop, Robo vs.  Jones. The film's concluding moment is not the eradication of crime in Old  Detroit, but the temporary arrest of crime in OCP - eliminating one  perpetrator (Jones) but leaving a fundamentally criminal corporate system  intact.
In Robocop, the upshot of panic cops, splattered individualism,  the American Bod-God, and "deterrible" violence is the  self-replicating, self-fulfilling credo of a panic police state:  "Somewhere there's a crime happening."