This is a review of the movie, which I saw on cable, and not the DVD.  I believe that I saw the 'R' rated version rather then the NC-17 version, although it wasn't specified.

A Dirty Shame opens with Tracy Ullman, a frigid housewife, getting hit on the head and turning into a sexaholic.  She is welcomed into a sexaholic cult led by Johnny Knoxville and then slowly more and more members of the town get concussions and become sexaholics of various more or less bizarre flavors.  As the new apostle of the cult it is apparently Tracy's destiny to invent a new sex act.

The first wall that A Dirty Shame runs into is that it relies heavily on the sexually bizarre to fuel its shock humor.  However asking people in the post "2 girls one cup" age to be shocked by a guy sitting around in a baby costume is optimistic in the extreme.  If the movie had run with the theme and actually injected humor based on these acts, perhaps that might have worked, instead we just see a parade of minor creepiness and we're supposed to be amused by it?

Secondly, for a sex comedy there's almost no sex and absolutely no eroticism.  Tracy goes the extra mile with her facial contortions and pelvic thrusts which is slightly amusing at times but only in the 'Tracy is making funny faces' way, not in the 'Tracy is actually having a good time' way.

Thirdly, there's very little comedy.  Mostly what there is that works is slapstick, which is ok but it's not enough to hang the movie on.  An example of the comedy might be Selma Blair appearing with what appears to be basketball sized balloons for breasts.  In the context of the film they're real giant breasts, but she moves as though they're balloons.  Funny?  Later they deflate and re-inflate in front of us.  Honestly I can't see what direction they were hoping for this to be funny in?  A sight gag?  Self-deprecating "isn't this a cheesy movie" humor?

With almost no story, satire(?) that misses the world as it is now, and social commentary(?) that is incoherent the movie has nothing to fall back on to rescue it from itself.

All that said I think that the actors turned in reasonable performances given the obvious limitations they were laboring under, production quality seemed to be decent and the sound track was quite good.  In fact watching the list of songs on the credits was as amusing as anything in the film itself.

Go in with low expectations and you might be pleasantly surprised, but if you aren't already a John Waters fan it's probably not worth an hour and a half of your life.