When "Me and My Shadows" was first broadcast, it was broadcast the week of my first quarter-century as a Judy Garland fan and serious collector.  I had taken issue with the book and how Lorna Luft had such specific and almost mundane memories of unfortunate events in Judy Garland's life, but glossed over Judy's humor, her grace, and her courage, and worse yet, implied that Garland's last two years were basically a burn-out.  Judy completed 120 concerts in her last two years.  Her 1967 tour saw 80 concerts performed with only three cancellations.  What angered me the most was the error that Luft made when stating that Garland had canceled her entire 12/67 run at Caesar's Palace when Burt Lahr ("Oz's" Cowardly Lion) passed away.  This is untrue.  Recordings and photographs exist of Judy's engagement.  She did cancel one show when she found out about Lahr, but was back the next night and dedicated "Over the Rainbow" to him.  I won't go on to the other 191 factual errors about Garland in Luft's book.
In the film, Tammy Blanchard does an admirable job as young Judy, and her performance is the only thing that made me choose a two star rating instead of one. Her skill at interpreting Judy's gawky adolescence, burgeoning style and mannerisms is uncanny.
Judy Davis arrives like a plane crash, and shrieks and whines her way through the remainder of the film (incongruously entering the film at the time Garland was about 22 and Davis in her 40's).  Garland's humor and genius and survival instincts are lost in the need to push the Judy Garland story through the mind set, prejudices, bitterness and self-aggrandizing filters of those who have gone through recovery from substance abuse.
Sid Luft and the Group V corporation he formed with two "associates" (both with prison records), was responsible for bleeding Judy of considerable monies in 1967-68, and Luft eventually sold Judy's contract for ONE DOLLAR to another group of similarly shady-credentialed individuals.
Judy's ability to, in her words, "rise above" her situations isn't even alluded to.  As far as Luft is concerned, Garland was too trusting and not discerning and the loss of money was due to these faults.
As a result, the casual viewer thinks, because of the quality of the wardrobe and the attention to visual detail, that this is the true story of Judy Garland.  What is sad is that this depiction of Judy's life, by someone who was only part of that life for 16 years, is as one-dimensional as a pencil line.  If the essence of Garland and her uncanny abilities had received as much attention as the costumes, this might indeed be a significant film.