When I first saw the original George Romero  film The Crazies a few years ago, my first thought after it was over was that it was a pretty great concept that wasn't executed the right way. That's actually my only memory regarding the original film since it wasn't very memorable and not even up to par with Romero's mediocre  films. Before news hit that the film was being remade, the thought crossed my mind that a remake could certainly benefit this film. Lo and behold, the film has been remade and is in theaters now.

The 2010 remake of The Crazies can be considered an upgrade from the original film. Is it an original concept? No, not really. But when dealing with a remake, aiming for an original concept is kind of silly since it was already done at least once in the original film it's based off of. The Crazies actually felt a lot like if 28 Weeks Later and The Hills Have Eyes (2006) were blended together to make one film. The military being heavily involved and trying to contain the outbreak is what made me think of 28 Weeks Later. The "crazies" themselves and the ending were reminiscent to the last scene at the end of The Hills Have Eyes. Actually, Neil Marshall's Doomsday comes to mind as well. The car wash scene instantly made me think of last year's The Final Destination, which I absolutely hated. Luckily, this car wash was a bit more exciting and the payoff was more satisfying. I hate doing comparisons to other films while thinking of this one, but that was one of the things that irked me about the film. It seemed like most things that occurred throughout the duration of the film were reminiscent of others. Most films do that, but usually have a few distinguishing scenes of their own. A remake, if done properly, should remind you of the original film while introducing a few new elements that stand alone. Originality goes a long way in this medium these days.

The pitchfork scene is the main reason to see this film. I've always wondered why pitchforks haven't been used more often in horror films. The movie poster is a huge tease to that scene and it is easily the highlight. Timothy Olyphant in the lead role is another good reason to see this. Olyphant seems to be the type of actor that is skilled enough to get bigger roles, but either picks the wrong parts or is looked over by the studios. He at least had the opportunity to shine in last year's A Perfect Getaway and again here.

While The Crazies is an improvement over the original film, it still seems to be lacking something to make it more memorable and is a bit too predictable. There are quite a few interesting kills (the way the lighter comes into play isn't too shabby) and the make-up and CG effects are more than satisfactory, but it often felt like the film burrowed ideas from other horrors and thrillers from the past few years rather than providing something a bit more creative. The Crazies falls a bit flat overall, but is still worth checking out if you're a die hard horror fan.