Well, it seems to be my mission in life to deliver the bad, bad news about your favorite films.  Don Quixote tilted at windmills, but I have no such lofty ambitions, nor illusions.  Just calling a spade a spade over here.

This is a lousy film, that could have been a marvelous film.  The cinematography is certainly admirable, though marred by excessive and pointless cutting.  The concept, though I personally found it stomach- churning, rather than piquant, has merit as a trope, if your taste runs to such empty, maudlin ideologies as helpless' supposedly silent heavenly "witnesses" who can't freakin' shut up.

Look, folks, there was no script.  That's not just bad, it's a bad sign of bad things to come.  If you start with an original premise, such that you have a nicely bleak landscape (loved it)' filled with emotionally unfullfilled and existentially restless population (thumbs up there, too!) and you ruin it with all this pretentious, second-rate pseudo-intellectualizing, you can't call that a masterpiece.  That's like taking a great cut of steak and making hamburger out of it, then undercooking and under seasoning it.  Which is actually a perfect metaphore to sum up the cinematic buffet we have in "Wings of Desire".

If only Wim had left his movie silent...let the powerful images tell his story, such as it is.  There is no character development, no opportunity to really meaningfully engage with the characters.  For all their pretentions of depth, they are as one dimentional as cardboard cut-outs.  The final aesthetic insult for me was the dreadful sound editing in the "thought bubble" portions of the movie.  It's as bad or worse than one of those old reg 8 home movies...tinny, no depth, over-miked.  Yikes!  Wow.  What was he thinking?  Probably "I'm the best movie-maker. Ever.  I'm soooo deep and poetic.". Um, nope.

For good black and white films with true depth in a similar existential vein with actual plot and character development, check out Seventh Seal, wild strawberries and, for great silent films with the sweep and visual depth that this film was trying for, check out anything by Sergei Isenstein.  Only semi-educated, intellectually-pretentious, bourgeois saps(read:Americans) would find this movie to be valid or worthwhile.  Sorry, but those conditions are cureable, you know!  Stop being intellectually lazy and wallowing in sentiment for its own sake and you'll be on your way.  And, yes, it will ruin a lot of your favorite movies for you, but you'll discover others that are far less empty and much more challenging and you will learn why they  are good!  Bad art is bad for the soul, the equivalent of gourmet junk-food.  Don't be seduced or fooled by films like this.  Look for the real thing.  It's worth it, I promise!