As a film, Formosa Betrayed just doesn't get the audience going. Despite some strong efforts by the cast, the script just isn't sincere enough in terms of telling a dramatic story. It comes across more like using the story as a vehicle to get its political message across. Unfortunately, the political messages in the film seem to outweigh plot points as we are try to find a story within the politics surrounding it. The jumping back in forth in the timeline further emphasizes that the politics of the period is more important than his investigation of the murder.

Even if one is unfamiliar with the history of Taiwan politics, it's pretty clear what the film is suggesting from the start of things. Therefore, the main character's realization is not exactly earth shattering. No one watching the film will be shocked to learn that the authoritarian Nationalist government is doing a cover-up job of a hit done on U.S. soil.

Scene after scene, the badness of the government and the response of the characters seem a bit forced and hurts the credibility of the film. Despite history lessons given by the supporting characters to Agent Kelly, one can't help but feel that it's only one side of the story in a much more complex situation with the R.O.C. government in Taiwan, the PRC on the mainland, and the U.S.. The characters simplify the history a bit and unfortunately it does not lend much to what our FBI agent learns and feels by the end of the film.

Yes, it's clear that he knows there's something wrong with the government and that the U.S., for various reasons including an arms deal, is basically looking the other way. But these realizations just aren't that satisfying. It seems like Agent Kelly is on his first overseas trip as an FBI agent and he can't believe right and wrong don't seem to matter in the great scheme of things.

But without getting too much into politics, it's not quite clear what the exact position of the U.S. government is in regards to Taiwan. What is clear is how a U.S. audience should react by the ending messages. Basically, the filmmakers are saying that Taiwan (Republic of China actually) is only recognized by 20+ countries and the U.S. is not one of them. The final monologue from Agent Kelly's boss is basically saying that he doesn't give a rat's ass about human rights and democratic freedoms in Taiwan because it's beyond the U.S. interest in the region.

It's a straightforward way of saying that Americans need to care about Taiwan's political status because of the oppression and murder committed by the regime during the film. But as a viewer, I can't help but think that the average American viewer still won't care after watching the film unless he or she cared before watching the film. Despite the best efforts by the producers to make people who were unaware care about Taiwan and it's struggle to stay out of CCP control, the monologue or arguments made by Agent Kelly's boss seemed like the most sincere part of the script.

The script seems to suffer from a seemingly unclear and possibly dishonest motivation of the Taiwan Independence movement as being chiefly about staying out of Chinese Communist control. But this seems more like an issue for audiences to think about in terms of Taiwan's political direction in this day and age. Formosa Betrayed details an oppressive government but the motivation for the movement is about not allowing the Nationalists to unite Taiwan with the Communist regime on the mainland.

But it seems confusing to the viewer because the oppressive KMT regime is clearly anti-Communist in more than one scene. So are they anti-Communists or pro-Communists?

In one of the film's more ambitious scenes, actor Kenneth Tsang's character who admits to a cover-up in the ROC government to Agent Kelly seems a little dishonest because it's not really clear why Taiwan does not want to be a part of China. On what basis do we know that the local Taiwanese people don't want that? And on what basis do we know that the KMT government wants to sell Taiwan to the Communists? It seems like it's a natural assumption the audience is supposed to agree with, but scene after scene, we are looking at a Nationalists regime and not a Communist regime.

So while the KMT government is the main element the heroes in the film are battling against, the ultimate point of the film is that Taiwan does not want to be a part of China (the PRC). But why? The film doesn't really express why that's the case and assumes that the audience should know why. Unfortunately, this basic argument brought forth over and over again as the real reason why the KMT regime is behaving that way seems a little too hypothetical and not concrete.

Unfortunately, the history between the Communists, Nationalists, and the U.S. on the mainland is much more complex than the film suggests. The producer's character Ming says that the KMT lost because they couldn't stop stealing everything from the public like they did in Taiwan. It's a bit of a simplification of course, but it comes off as "We just don't like them, so that's why they failed on the mainland."

There's no reason why any of the characters would know why this and that happened on the mainland. It seems like since they don't like living under the KMT regime and they think that's why they lost over there. But too much of a simplification over that period of history just makes the film look biased instead of focusing on the story and the political elements driving it.

As a thriller, it's hard to get excited about whether the Agent Kelly succeeds in getting his witness out of the airport. Since his witness is going to share with the entire world what the audience probably knows before even sitting down to watch the film, it does not feel that important rather he gets out or not.

The film is already exposing the Nationalists government as it is, and calling a press conference in the States to expose the government would have felt emotionally redundant. Of course legally, it's a big deal, but from the movie's standpoint it's like saying the same thing.

All in all, the film represents mostly what the 2nd generation Taiwanese Americans have been told by their parents and that point of view is limited  as we can see that the producer's ability to truly interpret the motivations of the KMT government. Mixing and matching today's issue with the KMT government "trying to sell out Taiwan to the Communists" and the past where the KMT government was oppressing a movement they saw as undermining the Republic of China government on Taiwan, are 2 very different things. But the film attempts to make this the main point the viewer should learn about the KMT government.

It's like using the past human rights cases to rally white Americans to support Taiwan Independence in today's situation. But for the sake of honesty, these 2 issues should really be kept separate because the film came off as manipulative to one who knows more about the real motivations of both the KMT and the Dangwai (green) movement at that time in the 80's.

A key point not expressed in the film regarding Taiwan's past or present is that the T.I. movement is really about taking the Republic of China central government and turning it into the Republic of Taiwan government and totally ousting the 1949 mainlanders that brought the central government of China to Taiwan province. While the film makes the T.I. movement look innocent, behind all of it, is a movement that is really about stealing the ROC government from the mainlanders and taking it as their own central government that redefines the borders to just Taiwan province. It is not about overthrowing the ROC government and establishing an ROT government. It's just about changing the name and saying that everything the ROC government brought with it now belongs to them and the '49 mainlanders are just immigrants in Taiwan.

To the target audience the film is intended for, they would be hardly aware of what the true intentions of the T.I. movement are and will only see an authoritarian government suppressing the population.

But the vision of the film is of course limited to the point of view of its producer, and it comes off as very narrow sighted in its historical interpretation. However, this is very common in 2nd. generation Taiwanese American families. Having been misguided by their families to begin with, they often go on to be activists taking them further down a misguided path. Taiwan's history goes back much further than just the transition period between the Japanese Empire and the ROC in 1945. The Taiwanese point of view has been distorted by the generation born into the Japanese empire after 1895. It's that generation that does not want to be Chinese because they were essentially born Japanese but are Chinese ethnically. Naturally, the descendants of that generation maintain the same sentiment and view the Chinese Nationalists in a negative manner mostly due to the ideological clash between the Japanese Empire and the mainland regime who were at war with each other for the last 8 years. The Taiwanese were essentially on the axis side of World War II and were trained to look down on Chinese by the Japanese. It's the real reason why being "Chinese" is such a low class thing to them. It was not because of some of the low-class mainlanders that first came to Taiwan in 1945 although this first impression did not help. And of course not all mainlanders were low class at that time. But first impressions last.

The Han Chinese from Fujian province who later called themselves Taiwanese did not always have that point of view, and before 1895 Han people from Fujian were just Qing dynasty subjects like everyone else on the mainland and therefore Chinese or a part of a Sino-Chinese nation controlled by the Manchus.

Therefore, in a way this generation that has descended from the Japanese generation has actually misinterpreted their own past because all they have known is only what their grandparents and parents experienced. And that is heavily influenced by the Japanese colonial period. They wouldn't see the policy of Mandarin as the national language as a negative thing because the policy would have been enforced at the same time on the mainland and Taiwan if they were both ruled by the ROC in the first half of the century. They would know that Minnan dialect is just one of many dialects from Fujian and would see the necessity for a unifying dialect for all Han Chinese people. Unfortunately, the separation for 50 years and being on opposite sides of WW2 has led to a great deal of mistrust, misunderstanding, and animosity between the 2 sides which got worse once the 2 groups had to live with each other on the same island.

Since the T.I. movement distorts history in a way that essentially "legalizes" its attempt to supplant the Republic of China from the 1949 mainlanders that moved China's central government to a province already under its control, someone who comes from that background would naturally tell the story the way that he/she understands it.

However, it resulted in a film that was terribly misguided from the very start.