I just love this show and I never get tired of the reruns. It would have been nice if they had made it in wide screen which is how they show it on TBS, but that's nothing, just a little suggestion. I love the chemistry between DOUG and CARRIE and are glad they kept the same characters throughout the show!(excluding Deacons kids) I bet that anyone checking this box set out has seen a few episodes before and let me guess, you like it, well this is what you need to get! I always hated not finding anything good on tv and The King Of Queens wasn't on either and wanted to see an episode, but after I found this little set, I can now watch it anytime which is the beauty of tv on dvd, you can watch it whenever. I also have a portable dvd player and when I'm not driving, that's my go-to selection. The great thing about this show is that it's so modest, so true to life, which is the reason why I, like so many others love it so much. It's funny to think that this kind of guy and this beautiful woman could have a chance, especially when they have their disagreements, but when they make up and have their loving moments, you know their meant for each other. Oh, don't even get me started on Carrie's father, Arthur. I don't think Iv'e ever seen that quite of a unique and hilarious relationship/situation between a young couple and the wife's crazy father living together. CLASSIC! I also don't think Iv'e ever seen such great chemistry between actors in a sitcom like these three together, and in every episode which is the mark of brilliancy. These guys deserve so much credit for bringing their A-game every single episode. BRILLIANT!! I just wish that it never got cancelled, this show could've gone on for 20 years!!! I would've loved the aspect of Doug and Carrie having a kid for the last few seasons, imagine Arthur as a grandpa, HA!!!

  Now onto the box set. It's made very nicely and is also very cleverly made, top of the line. The set is an IPS truck with Doug, Carrie and Arthur pictured in the "cockpit". The DVDS are located in the back of the truck, and you lift the door like a real delivery truck to pull them out. There are nine cases of dvds for the shows nine seasons with 3 dvds per case and the cases are made very nicely unlike some other complete series sets. Under the hood are nine "index card sized" cards for the nine seasons describing every episode!

A GREAT VALUE AND A GREAT SHOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!