First of all, let's get the facts straight on the aspect ratio.  The only DVD of this movie so far has been released "full frame", or, more commonly called "open matte", or 1.33:1 ratio.  It is NOT Pan & Scan, and you're not losing information.  At the same time, it is NOT the correct aspect ratio, which is 1.85:1.  In April 1953, Columbia announced that all forthcoming productions would be composed for the 1.85:1 ratio and that Columbia would be 100% widescreen.  Later, it would also adopt Cinemascope for 2.35:1 ratio for specific movies, but most still used 1.85:1.

They were looking at how to achieve wider and taller images without investing in costly new equipment, at least on their part, and the exhibitors would have to fork over some money to take advantage of the plans of the studios. They achieved this by filming in the old 1.37:1 ratio (what you see on the DVD), but then "soft matted", or cropped, the image in the theater on the top and bottom to achieve the 1.85:1 ratio.  This is the ratio for which the movie was composed.  You're not meant to see the top and bottom of the image.

This is evident, and proved, by the black hard mattes that pop up on the bottom of the screen during the shots of the Monkees jumping off of the bridge.  All special effects are shot only for their intended theatrical framing. This is due to the high cost of their development. This means that when you see a special effect shot on a non-widescreen home video, it has surely been pan & scanned (not on this DVD), meaning that a part of the picture has been chopped off. This holds true for all movies, including all matted films and films shot on Super 35mm.  The hard mattes seen during this scene gives an indication of the intended aspect ratio of the picture.

One reviewer stated "I saw it in a theater and it was 1.33 or 1.37:1".  Big deal.  Projectionists often guess on how to exhibit films if they lack proper information.  Technically, this film can be projected in academy ratio, but it is wrong, as it is not how the film was composed.  I read where Andrew Sandoval attended a theatrical showing and the projectionist thought it looked a little tight at 1.85:1, so he projected it at 1.66:1.  He was incorrect, which is why the mattes were still partially seen.

Anyone who has a widescreen TV (such as myself), can use the zoom feature to closely approximate the 1.85:1 intended aspect ratio.  It's not perfect, as widescreen TVs are 1.78:1, but it's pretty darn close--and guess what?  It looks great.  This is why TCM also shows it in 1.85:1--because they are educated in film.

Anyway, regarding the movie, it's a fun film, with many visually beautiful sequences, great music, and humor.  If you don't get it the first time, try again.  It's worth anyone's time who like the Monkees, Rafelson, or is curious about one of the finer examples of psychedelic pop-art.

This DVD from the 90s would benefit from a restoration, and a new release on DVD or Blu-ray disc.  I doubt that it's popular enough to warrant a full-blown restoration, which is too bad.  Don't let that distract you, though, as there's only some minor damage here and there, but overall, visually pleasing.