Christian correlations aside, this is a phenonenal film.  The young actress playing Lucy shows a prowess beyond her years.  Any fan of CS Lewis will find this film amazing and at the same time lacking.  Just like his friend JRR Tolkien, Lewis creates and to a certain extent lived, in a world of imagination and therefore, his creation is vivid and hard to translate to the big screen.  Andrew Adamson and Peter Jackson did a phenomenal job bringing them to the screen.

CS Lewis wrote this series and astonished the world of Christian Literature.  How a middle-aged man could write so convincingly from a child's perspective was baffling.  CS Lewis, along with his brother Warnie lived in their childhood and clung to the Norse myths like they were beloved blankets, never found without them.

CS Lewis, of course, was a skeptic/agnostic and was brought to Christ in his mid 20's.  He never lost his childlike faith that made him a visionary of Christian Literature up there w/ the likes of AW Tozer.

Bottom line is that, although Andrew Adamson said he consciously tried to "de-Christianize" this film, it is impossible.  The Christian iconography is inherent in the story and was such an integral part of the storyline that it could not be avoided.  Adamson even had Aslan utter the line "It is finished" when he destroyed the white witch.

The film may be a bit tough for children.  Even Lewis understood that to a child, harm to an animal is often worse than harm to an adult.  What an insigt for a man that spent most of his life among literary giants rather than small children.  Therefore, in his series, the only book where animals are killed in large numbers is the last battle and a few pages later, they are resurrected with Aslan in the new Narnia (Representing the New Jerusalem, where Christ (Aslan) will reign in majesty).

The death of Aslan is graphic, as it should be, and will be hard for children to digest.  But his "deeper magic" is a doorway to discuss Christ's love for us as sinners.  Be sure to talk to your children so they don't come away confused and understand the allegories rather than the reality of the story.

One could debate all day the film deficiencies when translated from literary form.  Bottom line is that Adamson has done a sturdy job bringing Aslan to life (3 years alone to create a believeable CG lion that after years of failed attempts to make talking animals, actually looks like it is speaking) and telling his story.

To the final scene where Aslan walks off down the sandy beach (the poem "footprints" is brought to mind for this scene), the film is beautifully executed.  Adamson could not destroy the Christian message of redemption and salvation and his "Narnia" is a world of wonder and spectacular vistas.

Be sure to watch Lucy's face the first time she steps into Narnia.  You will feel like a child again yourself.  CS Lewis would be proud.  He was adamantly against any attempt to bring Aslan to the screen/stage and stated they would all fall short of his writing of Him.  I believe he would be startled at the vision on the screen.

My only scene beef is when Aslan roars and the children respond.  In the book, Aslan's roar is such that the children tremble with fear and awe.  I wanted to see a bit more of that on the children's faces.

Overall, a fantastic job, bravo...