The story premise of Crocodile Dundee is simple enough.  New York reporter Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski)  travels to Australia to write a story about a man nicknamed "Crocodile" Mick Dundee (Paul Hogan) who survived  a horrific crocodile attack while fishing (in reality he was poaching  crocodiles). She wants to see the actual spot where he was attacked, so he  takes her on a tour of the Australian bush. He is able to con her into  believing he is quite the natural outdoorsman but we are able to see many  of his little tricks (i.e.- where he is using a disposable razor to shave  his face until he sees her walking in his direction. Then he quickly hides  it and pulls out his knife so she can think he shaved his face in this  primitive manner). One of my favorite Australian scenes is when they are in  the bush and an aborigine comes along. She is initially frightened until  she learns it is a friend of his. She asks Mick how his friend  "Wally" can find his way around the bush at night and Dundee  tells her aborigines have a sort of telepathy. Then you hear Wally (who is  really a city boy returning for a family visit) hooting and hollering as he  stumbles and trips in the darkness,  his voice echoing "I hate the  bush" .  Sue then decides it would really complete her story if she  could write about the Australian man visiting New York . She invites him  visit and this is where the second part of the story takes place. Mick  Dundee is utterly unpretentious and befriends everyone, most notably the  working class folk such as his limo driver and doorman.  The New York  scenes are some of the funniest- him coming down an escalator for the first  time. Arriving at his the spacious New York hotel room, he asks "how  many people are staying here?" She tells him there is a TV in the room  he can watch if he is bored. He says he is familiar with TV, he watched it  at a friend's house and turns it on. A "I Love Lucy" rerun comes  on and he remarks drolly that this is what he saw back then, too. The scene  where he tries to find out what a bidet is for is a scream.
One of my  personal favorites is when they are held up by a mugger wielding a knife.  Sue is pleading with Mick to give up his money because the man has a knife.  Mick replies, "you call that a knife? Now this is a knife" while  whipping out his own gargantuan knife and slashing the mugger's jacket. The  look on the mugger's face before he takes off running. Another memorable  scene is when he is in a bar with a cab driver friend, meeting up with what  he thinks is a beautiful woman. His buddy informs him that "she"  is really a man (in drag). To confirm this, Mick sticks his hand between  her legs and cops a feel. He is outraged, much to the amusement of the  entire bar. This scenario comes to play once again when he meets an older  woman friend of Sue's at a party. The woman has a very husky voice.  Suspicious of being tricked again, he once again cops a feel. Sue is  shocked, but tells her friend not to mind, "he's from Australia".  Instead of being angered, her friend replies with a bemused smile, "I  really must go there sometime." Although he played a lot of tricks on  Sue while they were in the bush together, it turns out that Mick does have  some special talents (one of them being a good fighter) and many of them  are showcased during the New York visit. She slowly falls in love with Mick  and realizes that her pompous fiancee is not the man for her. A very simple  but entertaining movie.