I'm not going to rehash the stories, since I've seen some very in-depth reviews that I can't improve upon. But here's my take:

I've never been a big fan of Mr. Bean; I see it as an SNL skit: great in 2-5 minute chunks, but damned boring in a feature film. The first time I saw Mr. Atkinson truly speak (in a standup show), I thought he was a comedic genius & wished for more. I only caught part of a Black Adder show on PBS (where he turned highwayman)and was hooked. When this set came out on a Gold Box deal, I hadn't thought about the show in years, but had to buy it. Best money I've spent in a while.

If you like British humor as well as intelligent sarcasm, you'll love this. Rowan Atkinson is great, but I doubt the show would be as good if it weren't for the fantastic supporting (?) cast. I was shocked to see Dr. House in drag and acting like a total moron (and doing so beautifully). My favorite character, though was Baldrick. He could always be counted on to come up with a 'cunning plan' to save the day.

My main advice, if you're not a huge history buff (or only learned history in a US public school) is to watch the 'Moments in History' bonus features first. This way you'll understand many of the references made and get more of the subtle jokes as they happen. I'm a public school educated history buff & missed quite a few references that made sense after I discovered this material.

Don't expect Monty Python or Benny Hill. They're both great, but this requires you to pay more attention. I love that about 'Black Adder' as too much comedy today is designed for those with short attention spans and no need for an education. I like 'The Blue Collar Comedy' series as much as the next guy, but intelligent humor is a rare blessing these days.

I've just finished "Black Adder Goes Forth" and look forward to finishing the set over the next few days. I have no doubt I'll be ready to repeat this experience on a big screen when I get home (I'm on vacation & watching on my laptop right now).