Trick is a very rare movie indeed, a movie that's actually better than the marketing blurbs make it out to be.  It's a gay comedy that's actually funny, though exasperatingly so at times.  This one film just about makes up for a near miss in the way of gay comedies, "Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss," one not so near miss, "Kiss Me Guido," and one big bomb that's sometimes touted as a comedy, "Get Real."
Actually, Trick is more than just a gay comedy in a couple of ways.  For one thing, it's a gay musical comedy; okay, there are only a couple of songs, but it's really a musical, nonetheless.
Here's the set-up:  Gabriel is a very uptight, completely unassuming, nebbish sort of guy, winningly played by Christian Campbell, who wants to write musicals.  His life is full of self-absorbed 'friends,' among whom is Tori Spelling appearing as "the aspiring actress from Hell."
The story line is set when Gabe's friend Perry points out to him at a writer's workshop that no one will believe the characters in Gabe's musical could fall in love in one night if he doesn't believe it.  By the end of the night, Gabe will be a believer.
Later at a bar, Gabe sets eyes on a piece of eye candy named Mark, and can't take his eyes off him.  More importantly, neither can he believe Mark returns his looks.
By chance the two meet again on the subway, where Mark comes on to Gabe and morphs into Mr. Right Now, though a far too laconic Mr. Right Now.  The night that follows as the two try to find a place to do it, which principally would involve finding a place none of Gabe's self-absorbed friends knows exists, is by turns delightful, extremely exasperating, and a strain on credibilty (two gay guys who can't find a place to do it?)
But Trick isn't just about trying to find a place to do it, it's about falling in love.  And what makes the comedy endearing, besides Christian Campbell's dimples, is that throughout the night Gabriel is also struggling with several near universal gay guy issues while seeking the ever elusive SertaPerfect quality time.  "Is this guy for real?"  "Why is such a hot guy coming on to me?"  "After I put him up on a pedestal for one night, will he just walk all over me getting down?"  "If he's spent so much time perfecting his body, has he had any time to work on what's inside?"  "Can Mr. Right Now turn into Mr. Right?"  And of course, "Do I care about any of this or do I just want him right now?"  All the while Mark is slowly revealing that he has insecurities of his own, though J.P. Pitoc, who plays Mark, is much better at smoldering than at appearing available to and interested in Gabe.
Fortunately (here's a plot spoiler if you haven't already figured it out) the guy with buns and pecs of steel turns out to have a heart of gold, though the plot takes too long to reveal Mark is more than just eye candy and too long for Gabe to get a clue and the ending is a bit too pie-in-the-sky.  Still, this is a musical, not Romeo and Julian.  The movie ends with Gabe singing a reprise of the musical's biggest hit, "Enter You."
Roger Ebert finds this film silly and suggests the plot would be unthinkable in a straight film, and in a sense he's right.  But gays have never had the opportunity to see themselves in these sorts of silly comedies so it doesn't really matter if the same story line wouldn't work in a straight film.  Ebert also complains about Tori Spelling singing her whole number at the writer's workshop, but that's what they do in musicals, they sing whole numbers, not just a few lines and then cut to the next scene.
I have never been a big fan of musicals so I am pleasantly surprised at how much I like this movie.  Had I known it was a musical I might never have bought it, but a gay musical that's not 100% camp or drag is a very refreshing idea, indeed a courageous one on the part of the filmmakers.
Trick is a very entertaining movie and the best gay comedy I've seen.  I give it 4 stars, but if it wears well on repeated viewings, I will be upgrading my rating to a 5.