Spoilers below.

The idea of destroying the Island by bombs to prevent subsequent things from happening can never work.  The purpose of the Island from the outset is to ensure tight custody of hell from breaking loose whereas the purpose of the guardian and candidates is to protect it.  They are never meant to escape from the Island and definitely not to wipe it out from the surface of the earth by bombs.  We can tell the Island is still intact and there is no signs of holocaust when they woke up on the Island in 2007 right after the bombing.

Things got complicated when Jacob laid down the rule :  all his candidates will not be told of the reasons behind their painful experiences.  They have to figure it out by themselves along the way.

Charles Widmore and his wife have been obsessed by the mysterious power of the Island eversince their youth.  They certainly don't want the Island to be destroyed by Mr Blacksmoke.  Jacob most probably made a deal with them along with a plan to destroy Mr Blacksmoke by Jack, Desmond and their fellowship.  Somehow, Jacob is the only person fully aware of the mechanism of the heart of the Island, among other things, Jack and Desmond's abilities to resist strong electromagnetic current without injuries.

Jacob's twin brother was forbidden to leave the Island by his stepmother because the secret of the Island had been revealed to him and it could not be spread into the outside world.  But in the end, Mr Blacksmoke must never leave the Island because now he is evil.

Even when the Island began to fall apart, its mysterious power turn Mr Blacksmoke into a mortal being.

I am not surprised that Jack most likely survives in the end.
After having the sacred drink, now Jack is like Jacob.  We can see he survived the strong electromagnetic current.  He even managed to get out from the cave all by himself and walked a long way to the bamboo field to lay down to rest.  When Vincent the dog appeared, I bet Rose and Bernard won't be far away just in time to save Jack.

Since there is no more Mr Blacksmoke and the threat to the Island is now gone,  I strongly believe Kate and James will regroup and return to the Island with Penny.  Afterall, the code of fellowship is "No one is left behind".

Newborns on the Island are special.  But are they a blessing or a threat to the Island ?  Ben's daughter Alex had been killed and Sun's daughter was not born on the Island, leaving Aaron to be the only child born on the Island. Will Aaron become another Jacob or another Blacksmoke ?

Apparently the unanswered mysteries of the Island will not be fully explained.  We have to find out all the answers ourselves, perhaps from a new series of Lost.

Anyway, Lost definitely deserves a better ending and a new series of adventures surrounding the original Island world irrespective of what happened in the make-believe world which is too good to be true.

Jacob has all the luck.  His twin brother can never leave the Island to see the rest of the world while Jacob can travel anywhere around the world to carry out his recruitment plan.

Jacob makes all the rules and chooses his candidates according to his rules.  Their lives are flawed.  Indeed, everybody's life is flawed, one way or another.  Who isn't?

Whatever it takes, the plane must crash.  The plane crash was definitely no accident.  It appears that Jacob planned it on purpose.  No doubt, there were always casualties.  Were those people died in the plane crash just victims of circumstance or were they just dispensable?  Did they or their families really deserve all this?  What if Jack asks Jacob the same questions?  Will Jacob tell Jack that those people won't die for nothing?