Having owned a couple of the earlier public domain releases, I'm pleased to say that the quality of this new "remastered" print is pretty darned good, all things considered.

The greatest value of the disc, however, is in the extras.  The nearly and hour-and-a-half documentary, "One For The Fire", is by itself worth the modest price of the DVD.  It covers the entire genesis of the film, beginning with Romero's earliest attempts at filmmaking and the production company formed by him and his college buddies through to the collective decision: "Let's make a movie!".  It also explains how it almost instantly (and accidentally) fell into the public domain and how all of the original elements of the film (along with all of the company's commercials and industrial films) were destroyed in a basement flood.  The documentarians seem to have interviewed almost everybody associated with "Night of the Living Dead"'s creation and filming, and it's a fascinating journey that (unlike many DVD extras) doesn't need to rely on showing a lot of prolonged scenes from the movie just to fill the time.  It's very informative, engaging, and a great bonus for this release.

Also included is a 15-minute audio-only interview with lead actor Duane Jones, who seems to have kept his association with the movie very much at arm's length over the years.  It was recorded a year before Jones' death in 1988 and is candid and pretty riveting.

The 15-minute footage of a Romero Q&A at a comics convention isn't all that interesting, unfortunately, since the bulk of the information is covered in "One For The Fire".

I understand that the commentary tracks are carried over from an earlier DVD of the film (which might explain why the heard-in-the-background audio of the movie itself is out of synch with the picture, which is kind of annoying).  They're still entertaining, though.

Throw in a still image galley and a comically bad original theatrical trailer, and you've got a great bargain for the price.  While watching all of the extras, I was reminded of Criterion's DVD release of Herk Harvey's "Carnival of Souls" - in that it will probably be of most interest to filmmaking buffs in general than to casual fans of zombie movies.  But it should please both camps.