I just finished watching the movie Mansfield Park which debuted in 1999 and was directed by Patricia Rozema, and I am seeing for the first time; and it struck me for a couple of reasons, with some of the scenes sending my mind spinning. Although my review here is from a very narrow prism, I think it valid all the same and I am not willing to give it a pass. You may ask yourself how I can be so narrow, well, I do not look at movies just be to fun-entertained, I am very concerned with the message and construction of the story being told. For this review my focus is only going to deal with the issue of slavery and how it has been sanitized and trivialized in this movie.

Set in 1806 England, and although, one never actually see's any slaves, or a black person at all for that matter; they are the very foundation of the Bertram family's wealth. A family that is rich enough so that they can afford to take in a very poor 10 year old relation. Which brings me to the start of the movie and the first mention of slaves, as the coach is carrying the 10 year old girl Fanny Price to her rich relative's mansion.  They pass along a coast where a ship is anchored and the coachman stops to tend to the horses and Fanny leans out the window and asks, "Do you hear that? It was the sound of wailing, the coachman explains to her that it was coming from the anchored ship in which slaves were confined. It struck me that the scene seemed to touch on a serious topic in a fairly casual manner. My immediate thought was, is this the new way the subject of slavery is going to be dealt with in films now?

 Then further along in this story, we come to find out how much the business of slaveholding and dealing in Antigua has aided and given this family respectability and standing in English society. The daughters and sons have all been given the best education; they are full of all the right social graces and good and witty converse. They have been introduced to polite society at the right moment, and have every expectation to aspire to the best financial matches for their future matrimonies, which will increase their fortunes, all thanks to the poor slaves being held in Antigua.

The next mention of the slaves in Antigua is when the Patriarch has to travel to Antigua to go over his holdings. Upon his return from Antigua there is a scene where the family is in the sitting room, and the Patriarch is talking about the physical attributes of the slaves he holds and how there is a girl he plans on bringing to England to work in the house, and Fanny Price mentions that she has read that if you bring a slave to England they would have to be granted freedom. Then, the Patriarch makes an ignorant comment about how two mulattoes could not have offspring, to which statement one of his son's who is studying to become a clergyman objects.

The fourth mention I noted is when Fanny Price who was accustomed to reading books in the great library of the mansion finds a book of sketches of slaves, and the daily tribulations they suffer, she is so overcome that she begins to cry as she turns the pages and finds one sketch after another more gruesome than the last. The patriarch walks up on her, and is angered that she has uncovered his book of "slaveography", after rudely sending her out of the library he is seen to be overcome with feelings of shame and starts to tear each page from the sketch book and throws it into the lit fireplace. Then he is seen to be in a state of remorse and guilt as the camera pans away from him sitting alone in the library.

The last scene to trivialize the unfortunate slaves in Antigua was towards the end, when Fanny Price is neatly putting in place the end of each character in the film for the sake of the viewer. She is telling how each one ended up, when she casually mentions that the Patriarch has now divested himself of the business of slave holding and trading and had found a new lucrative business concern which was tobacco, another slave related business!

"Djonga (Slavery)", a song by Salifu Keita which shows up at the end as the credits are running is one of the brighter spots of this film.