Don't listen to anyone who tells you this movie is anything less than great. A solid story backs up beautiful cinematography and the most outrageous zombie action on film. Japanese filmmakers have a great eye for compostiton and this film works it better than most. There's a lot of thought put into every shot and every part is connected. It's something you don't see in the quick-cut American action films or the long shots of gore in the Italian films (and their imitators). When a zombie's head is chopped off it flies out of frame and into a second shot where it bounces off someone else. Likewise with spraying blood. A fight between two individuals cuts to a second set of characters fighting. These two are momentarily seperated and one of the combatants from the first fight stumbles backwards between them. In print it's hard to describe, but on film it brings a sense of connection to scenes that are really utter chaos. It allows the action to go non-stop without boring or confusing the viewer. And that makes the chaos so much more delicious.

What really makes this film is the action. It barely stops for more than a couple of minutes at a time. There's no crappy computer effects (there is wire work)- the fights are fast, fast (yes that's 2x fast), and perfectly choreographed. Some zombie purists might bemoan the fact that the zombies aren't the traditional stereotypes, but you forget all that as soon as an approaching zombie akwardly works the slide on his pistol and starts firing. Though I'm not sure why the Yakuza would bury their victims with guns, it really doesn't matter. Zombie fans with open minds will love this. There's so many bullets flying and swords swinging you never have time to look away. Also, I've never seen a movie where the heroine is punched-out by the hero so many times.

Even though the story is a little bit predictable (except for the plot twist at the end), you never know what to expect next and the filmmakers deliver like you can't believe. It's not just a zombie movie, by the way. When you add it all up, the cinematography, the action, the comedy, and the excellent musical score make this one of the most entertaining movies ever put to film.