Invader Zim is one of the most strangest, awesomest shows I have ever seen in my life. It rocks.

Here are the episodes included in this volume (sadly the last ;__;) 3.

Gir Goes Crazy and Stuff 5/5

Zim makes tries to make gir smarter, but it all ends up a disaster.

Dib's Wonderful Life of Doom 5/5

After Dib throws a muffin at Zim, Zim exacts his revenge by making Dib imagine that he was given super-powers, and became the famous savior of Earth.

Tak: The Hideous New Girl 4/5

Tak is a new girl, who turns out to also be Irken like Zim! But much better. She wants to take Zim's job as an Invader.

Backseat Drivers from Beyond the Stars 4/5

Zim noticed that the Tallest were coming near Earth. He wants them to visit, so he takes control of their ship and tries to direct it to Earth, only Dib intervenes.

Mortos Der Soul Stealer 5/5

Dib tries to get an ancient supernatural being called Mortos Der Soul Stealer to steal Zim's soul. Except, Dib only has 1 day to try and get him to do it.

Zim Eats Waffles 5/5

Dib gets Gir to plant a camera in Zim's house. The only thing is, everytime he sees something strange, it disappears before the Swollen Eyeball gets to see it.

The Girl Who Cried Gnome 4/5

A young cookie selling girl comes to Zim's house. He tries to stop her with his robotic gopher, but it doesn't work so well. Instead, the girl gets stuck in a hole, and Zim has to get her out before the press finds out that he's an alien.

Dibship Rising 4/5

Dib has Tak's ship, which has Tak's personality in it. Dib tries to put his personality in it, but then the ship starts thinking that it's Dib.

Vindicated! 3/5

Dib is sent to the counseler's office for being insane. Dib finds out that the counseler believes in aliens too! And wants to help him.

The Voting of the Doomed 4/5

The Skool is having a class president election. Zim wants to become president because he thinks that it is the next step to world conquest. Dib tries to prevent it, but the kid running against Zim is a moron.

Gaz, Taster of Pork 5/5

Dib has a collection of books that allow him to use magic. He thought they were empty, but he finds one spell that he can use. He tries it on Gaz, but it has a nasty effect.

The Frycook What Came from All That Space 4/5

After Impending Doom 1, Zim was exiled to work at Foodcourtia, the giant food court planet. Then Zim went to Impending Doom 2. Now his old boss from Foodcourtia has come looking for him.

The Most Horrible X-Mas Ever 5/5

Told 2 million years in the future, by a machanicle snowman. Zim tries to take over the world by becoming Santa.

Over all, I'd give it 5/5 stars. Zim is an awesome show, and you really should watch it. Especially if you enjoy insane cartoons.