I was excited when I first saw this Looney Tunes movie, but looking at it now, it's not really that funny. It's just another Roger Rabbit wannabe that fails to receive critical and commercial success as the on film synonymous with live action/animation mixes.

Joe Dante called this an "Anti-Space Jam" film. I agree with him. Space Jam was too commercial, but this film's just not funny as the classic counterparts. It had a bland and boring plot and predictble storyline that's not witout its plotholes. Bugs was pretty calm and cool like the Chuck Jones version, so is Daffy,who would occasionally revert to the wacky Bob Clampett Daffy. There were a lot of jokes and famous looney tunes gags in it, but they were all pretty corny in live action. One such joke the CEOs of Warner Bros. studio were the Warner Brothers(obviously not related to Animaniacs). They managed to sneak in a joke about Porky Pig and Speedy Gonzales being politically incorrect.I really didn't like Bugs and Taz expelling gas in their own manner. I think Larry Doyle should go back to writing those poorly written sitcoms of today.

The film really doesn't have the same convincing interaction as "Roger Rabbit". The toons were just drawn in one position and later moved around the screen by computer. I prefered when they draw the toons on the photostatic blowups of live action frames and kept being drawn in their corisponding positions no matter where the camera moved. They wouldn't seem flat that way,otherwise the animations okay. The toons are shaded more realistically and they do touch real objects, often they would pick up CG objects, which by the way, the film has UGLY CGI! Come on! It sticks out like a sore thumb for crying out loud! The special effects were all pretty lame. I bet Industrial Light and Magic would do a MUUUUCH better job.

I really don't care for the choice of actors. Enough said. Joe Alaskey was pretty good. He's no Mel Blanc, but he trys.

The only thing I liked in the film was the famous reprisal of a "Rabbit Fire" scene. Overall, it's just a pointless waist of money and time. I hope one day, Warner Bros. would go throgh a renaissance and make Looney Tunes funny again. Tiny Toons and Animaniacs successfully recaptured the same classic humor. And I hope the Looney Tunes gang would return in new theatrical shorts, animated by the Warner Bros. Animation and NOT the overseas ones.