Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day is a delightful movie that is part 1940's screwball comedy, part fairy tale. THis movie has two great actresses, Amy Adams, who is simply adorable, and Frances McDormand, who is one of the best actresses in Hollywood today. Both these women shine in every movie they are in and Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day is no exception.

Synopsis: In 1939 London, Miss Guinevere Pettigrew is a middle-aged governess who finds herself once again unfairly dismissed from her job. Without so much as severance pay, Miss Pettigrew realizes that she must for the first time in two decades seize the day. This she does, by intercepting an employment assignment outside of her comfort level as social secretary. Arriving at a penthouse apartment for the interview, Miss Pettigrew is catapulted into the glamorous world and dizzying social whirl of an American actress and singer, Delysia Lafosse . Within minutes, Miss Pettigrew finds herself swept into a heady high-society milieu and, within hours, living it up. Taking the social secretary designation to heart, she tries to help her new friend Delysia navigate a love life and career, both of which are complicated by the three men in Delysias orbit; devoted pianist Michael, intimidating nightclub owner Nick, and impressionable junior impresario Phil. Miss Pettigrew herself is blushingly drawn to the gallant Joe a successful designer who is tenuously engaged to haughty fashion maven Edythe the one person who senses that the new social secretary may be out of her element, and schemes to undermine her. Over the next 24 hours, Guinevere and Delysia will empower each other to discover their romantic destinies.

My take on this movie, is pretty much the ugly duckling that becomes a beautiful swan fairy tale. When we first see Miss Pettigrew, she is very down since she has been let go of yet another governess position. She looks very dowdy, wearing an ill-fitting brown outfit, no makeup and looks very depressed and rejected. The firm that placed her in the position, and many others like it, has given up on her and tell her there is nothing more they can do for her. She is a failure. Miss Pettigrew has no money or home, and since she has no other skills to recommend her, she will be quite destitute. Because Miss Pettigrew has no other choice, she pretends to be the social secretary to a young American singer, Delysia who has requested one from Pettigrew's old firm. Miss Pettigrew is in for quite a handful with Delysia, who is juggling three different men to get what she wants. You would think Delysia would be the one character I wouldn't care for because she lies quite well and is deceitful, but since Amy Adams plays her with such flighty innocence, you come to adore her. Delysia helps Miss Pettigrew see how special and beautiful she is, even though she may not look it. Delysia, along with her friend Edythe, played by another wonderful actress, Shirley Henderson, transforms Miss Pettigrew into an attractive and fashionable woman. Edythe expects a thank you from Miss Pettigrew, and wants her to talk some sense into her ex-fianc&eacute;, the dashing Joe, played by Ciaran Hinds, who is a fashion designer.

Miss Pettigrew has a skill in handling touchy situations and people listen to her when she talks. She tries to give Delysia advice about love and life even though Pettigrew is a bit sheltered in those aspects. Plus, Pettigrew has fallen in love with Joe, who certainly does not belong with Edythe because Edythe is a nasty sort. But since she knows a major secret about Miss Pettigrew, that could ruin everything, Edythe blackmails Pettigrew into getting her way.

I am a big fan of period pieces and Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day is definitely one of them. There is a bit of zaniness and comedy mixed in with a lovely romance. The costumes of the World War II era were fabulous and the singing talents of Amy Adams shine here just as much as she did playing Giselle in the movie Enchanted. And don't forget the incredible acting of Frances McDormand. Because of Frances, she makes this movie truly wonderful. This is an overall feel good movie that made me believe in hope and love. Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day is a one gem of a movie you don't want to miss.

Katiebabs