Given my profound admiration of Julia Roberts and my enthusiasm for material that provides thoughtful insight into the shallowness of so much that seems to constitute the American Dream, it may come as some surprise that I am so critical of this movie.  In fact, all that I can find to compliment are the stunning skills of Julia Roberts, convincing as always--so much so that you forget you are watching her and actually believe in the person she portrays, and the intent of the screenplay writer, admirable in its correct depiction of an educational institution devoted to a purpose so devoid of any real meaning.
Unfortunately, the skills of the director, and perhaps of the screenwriter as well have limited the actual film to an almost ludicrously two dimensional portrayal of virtually all the characters in the movie, and have created a story so hyperbolic in nature as to render the plot comedy at times when it should be serious and pathetic at times when it pretends to humour.  In the opening scene we are supposed to believe that every student in this fine university have acually read and mastered the assignment for the first class in its entirety, memorizing to perfection dates and styles of art going back to the 15th century BC.
Later, we are expected to believe that the Italian Professor (Mike Newell) who has exhibited absolutely nothing in the film worthy of the attentions of the thinking, caring, highly intellectual professor which is Katherine Watson, succeeds not only in seducing her but in further maintaining a relationship lasting for a period of several months.
Finally, we are expected to believe that Betty (Kirsten Dunst) who has consistently been portrayed as the acquiescing member of high society, consistently scornful, indeed derisive of her professor suddenly becomes her ardent admirer and is willing to turn to her for support and advice just because she has given up on her marriage and broken bonds with her domineering mother.  Possible, yes, but the film here, as in so many other scenes, fails to provide any transitional material explaining the change in attitude or behaviour.
The one sequence that most significantly varies, refreshingly, from this is that where Joan (Julia Stiles) boldly challenges Katherine's (Julia Roberts) teaching as that of imposing her own values on others rather than that which she claims to be doing--teaching students to find their own way.
To be certain, taken on the strength of their individual performances, there were a number of reasonably good appearances by key actors and actresses.  There were a few good scenes in the movie and its fundamental message was one with which many of its viewers will be no doubt inclined to agree.  Unfortunately, only one performance could be described as brilliant (that of the inimitable Julia) and the film as a whole bears no comparison with the likes of Mr. Holland's Opus, a masterpiece of drama, believable, human and multidimensional throughout.  Alas, this could have been such a rich fabric of natural fibers rather than the plastic imitation that it is.