Before I begin, you should know that since Toy Story my family and I have loved animated movies. We've always preferred Pixar to DreamWorks because the former is usually more family appropriate with the exception of The Incredibles. DreamWorks always has some questionable material in their movies i.e. crude humor, innuendos, language, etc... It wasn't till recently with Kung Fu Panda that DreamWorks that people want family appropriate movies for kids. Last year, How to Train Your Dragon came out and I realized: I like this movie! It was clean, not too violent, and a great movie over all! I didn't know how DreamWorks was gonna pull off a better movie. Then, along came Kung Fu Panda 2, the Citizen Kane of animated movies. There are 6 reasons that Kung Fu Panda 2 is the best animated movie.
1. Story Line: Now I don't want to spoil anything but in my opinion, this plot was great! It had some pretty good twists for a kid's movie.
2. Fights: There was some pretty sweet kung fu fighting scenes almost as good as Jet Li's Fearless! The cooperation fight scenes were very original and very well crafted. One thing I would like to have seen more is some more one on one fighting. Other then that, spectacular choreography
3. Animation: The animation on How to Train Your Dragon was pretty eye popping. The animation for Kung Fu Panda 2? Even better. Fur/hair/feathers all bend in the wind like it would on an actually animal. When wet, the fur looks wet! On the topic of water, it's some of the best looking water in an animated movie. Moves like water and looks like water. And now we come to, I believe, DreamWorks strongest area: Explosions, smoke and dust. If you saw Megamind and How to Train Your Dragon, you know what I'm talking about. It looks so cool! The smoke billows like smoke and the dust settles like dust. When it comes to this area, DreamWorks rocks!
4. Voice Casting: The actors they picked for this movie were not great. They were awesome! They fit their character perfectly. Jack Black stole the show in the first movie. In this one, he's even better but loses to Gary Oldman, who plays the albino peacock Lord Shen. He plays his role so well when I see Lord Shen, I see Gary Oldman! My only negative comment is I would've wished to see Dustin Hoffman/Shifu play a bigger role.
5. Emotional Rapport: When it comes to emotions in animated movies, Pixar usually gets mine pretty involved i.e. Up. Kung Fu Panda 2 gets your emotions involved a lot. I don't want to spoil anything, but it was probably the saddest animated movie I've ever seen! But not too sad! It also has lots of hilarious moments, embarrassing moments and (surprisingly) some dark moments. As I said previously, Gary Oldman does a spectacular job playing a crazy peacock and he may creep some little kids out. So, be warned.
6. Music: The music is very well done. Beautiful, funny, exciting and sad, John Powell and Hans Zimmer have done an even better job then the first movie! I would strongly recommend buying this music if you enjoy soundtrack.
So there you have it! DreamWorks can do some clean, emotional and epic movies. And from what I've heard, the 3D is pretty good also. Enjoy this great movie.