Before I say anything else: Thelma & Louise is not a male bashing, anti feminist film. If you see it as that you are sadly identifying with the wrong characters! It's a thrilling tale full of life affirming energy and the two leads each deserved twenty Oscars each! On a par with Toys as my favourite film ... and I'm male! This is an alternatively powerful, harrowing and hilarious slice of 90's cinema that ranks among one of the best films ever made.
MGM released Thelma & Louise early in 2001, for a fairly early disc, it carried a strong line up of special features, which happily have found their way on to this SE re-release. The original release had a damn shoddy print quality, as MPEG encoders had still not quite been perfected yet, and the Dolby Digital 5.1 was all over the place!
Not now! The film has been stunningly remastered into anamorphic widescreen, and looks like it could have been made six months ago. The soundtrack also benefits extensively from a good cleaning up, still remaining in the standard 5.1, it has an enormous presence now. It is quite incredible that MGM have managed to house a 2 hour film plus well over two hours of extras on a single 9GB disc ... 
The most rewarding extra feature on the disc is the new hour long retrospective made in 2000. It features almost all of the principle cast and behind the scenes characters, and is cleverly broken down into five sections: Conception, Casting, Production, Reaction, and the final section is devoted to the cast and crew looking back on one of the most brilliant pieces of cinema ever to grace the world, all looking understandably pleased to have been involved. 
Elsewhere, you can enjoy two audio commentaries, one featuring director Ridley Scott (very rewarding and a good deal of technical information and insights into how difficult it was to get a ground breaking film like this made) and a second featuring Susan Sarrandon, Geena Davies and screenwriter Callie Khouri. This is a more chatty and funny track, but Khouri keeps the two witty cast engaged in conversation relevant to the film, not stopping a few hilarious outbursts along the way. The deleted scenes are very interesting to watch, and it is (for a majority of them) a good thing these were cut, they wouldn't really add anything. 
A more controversial extra is the much hyped alternate ending. Extended is really a better word, showing T&L's '66 Thunderbird falling at an awkward angle over the cliff, somehow ruining the whole effect that the two girls had just launched themselves into freedom. The are also some very good storyboard sequences, startingly similar to the actual shots in the film and a collection of theatrical trailers and home video previews. 
Please avoid the music video however, it is shocking 80's cheese and disturbing to think it was only 12 years ago!
All in all, MGM has done a fantastic job and put a lot of thought into creating this Special Edition, and if you already own the 2001 version, for God's sake go buy it anyway!