Whew!! What a determination to make all the wrong movies. Ashley Judd plays in this the apparent routine female companion of a government official that a certain "Eye" (played by Ewen McGregor) is assigned to watch. But the "Eye"'s assignment quickly ends prematurely. For Joanna Eris (Judd's character) out of a clear blue sky and without warning takes out a knife and stabs the subject of the "Eye"'s assignment, killing him. Soon thereafter Ashley will go outside and quite literally show her behind. Love that or hate it, its entire significance will utterly pale in comparison to the way that Ashley Judd has an obsessive determination for figuratively showing her behind in this, like most every role she plays. Joanna Eris seems to have never done a pleasant or good thing in her life and apparently never will. Still the movie doesn't make her a villain, but somebody we're apparently supposed to somehow sympathize with, showing vaguely some inadequate explanation of her background and how it supposedly made her the monster she is. Having Ashley Judd play her makes it all the more lurid, as there is a parallel between Joanna's stubbornly entrenched but poorly explained evil and Judd's stubbornly entrenched but poorly explained determination to play unlikeable roles that figuratively (and sometimes less importantly but literally) show her behind. Ashley Judd must certainly prescribe to a dogma that that which comes out of her behind does not stink. But even more exasperatingly, on a figurative level, she seems to have an obsessive fixation on an attitude that the cinematic venom that comes out of her obsessive choice of lurid movie roles doesn't stink. By the way, the movie gets no better from the point where she stabs the man. He is probably not her first victim, and by no means her last within the course of the movie. The Eye, rather than clearly relaizing that his assignment has come to a premature end, starts trailing Joanna Eris, like she immediately became the object of his affections! Hence the movie's title, I would suppose. But it doesn't really designate anything worth watching. See if you must to satisfy your curiosity. But be warned: there is nothing really worthwhile to get out of how these morbid obsessions of characters and/or performers play out!