I love all the Harry Potter series, but this one needed the "deleted" scenes to help the movie move along. The story is about Harry fighting against his own subconscious mind as to whether he really is an evil wizard or not. Without knowing he could, Harry speaks "snake tongue" which is only found in wizards who are aligned with evil. From then on Harry starts questioning his actions and wonders if Voltomort and him have a very common bond. Could he turn evil and not be aware of it? (Harry confess is fear in delete scene 13) Maybe he has done things without being aware of his actions. The deleted scenes add this element to the movie and blu-ray puts the deleted scenes on the same disc. After watching the movie and then the deleted scenes, you know exactly where to put the scene into the movie.
  In the deleted scenes, I found the most important plot manipulations, so you can follow the intent of the film and really get into Harry's mind. Below I listed the segments I found most important (deleted scenes #9, #11, #13). You just pause the DVD and move to specially features, then manipulate your cursor to the left side, about mid-way down to deleted scenes. Then press the number you want and watch the scene. The movie will go right back to where you left off after your clip.
#9 --  (where Harry is talking to a male student with a muggle (non-magic) parent, then a minute later a snake starts to attack this boy. Everyone thinks Harry is encouraging the snake to attack. But Harry is trying to calm him down -- he just didn't know he was speaking a language that no one else could speak. Unknowingly, he is a very rare gift that is usually only given to very powerful wizards.
#11 --  (deleted) All the students are talking behind Harry's back while he listens. They claim he is a dark wizard and can not be trusted especially if your parents are muggles.
#13 --  Harry and his friends watch as the school leaves for Christmas break. This is where he speaks about his own fears. That he could be doing something evil and not even be aware of it. This just needed to be in the original!!!

These other 2 are just funny and cute to watch.
#14 -- Harry and Ron give a drugged cupcake to Draco's goons. They pass out and are dragged to a closet to sleep off the drug.
#15 -- The goons wake-up and stagger out of the closet just in time to Harry and Ron coming back. Their shape-shifting potions is wearing out, but they still look so much like the other guys that everyone starts thinking they are seeing themselves in a mirror. The comedy of their reactions is so classic and it always makes me laugh.
This processes makes it a little more work,a but it is worth it.!!!

Needless to say the HD has intensified the clothing, ghosts and all special effects. The carved gold filigre is awesome the atmosphere is a touch more intense. The magical hiding cloak is excellently a beautiful irridesant cloth.
Now you watch all the deleted scenes and find out what is most important to you and put them in as you watch the movie.  ---  All I have to stay is Blu-ray shows better quality film, and with the deleted segments it completes your ability to understand the mental pressures hanging around Harry and his gang.
I needed this DVD to reach into the mind of Harry Potter in his 2nd year at school. Hope you feel the same way. Harry is different from most wizards and he knows it. He is forming a group of friends that will follow him anywhere. It reminds me of being the teenage outcast, with only a few really close friends.