"If you build it...he will come."

With those seven words, eerily whispered by an apparition in the ear of Iowa corn farmer Ray Kinsella, a film classic was born. Heck, classic may not be a strong enough word to describe "Field of Dreams". "Masterpiece" may be more fitting.

It is a film that has it's foundation built on evening catches with dad and laid-back saturday afternoons, eating hot dogs at the ballpark, and watching your favorite player field a ball or take the mound or step into the batters box to belt a home run - hopefully in your direction. It's a film deep-rooted in the nostalgia that surrounds the game and it's rich history and harkens back to a simpler, more innocent time, when baseball was played for the love of the game. Unlike the steroid-laden and greed-driven abomination that the game has become today, baseball used to be something that was more than a game to the people of America. It was our life blood, a living, breathing embodiment of the American spirit. Somehow, that has gotten lost, but the root values are still there, somewhere, under all the muck and filth that the current version of the game has heaped upon it. That is what this film is about.

This isn't simply just another "baseball" or "sports" film. It is a movie about characters and relationships. Not just the central figures of Ray Kinsella and "Shoeless" Joe Jackson, but of Rays patient and understanding wife Annie, their daughter Karen, Ray's father John, the embittered former writer and civil rights activist Terrence Mann (brilliantly portrayed by James Earl Jones), Annie's brother Mark, who plays the role of antagonist of this film, as well as Archie "Moonlight" Graham, the former ball player turned small town doctor who never got his shot to show what he could do, touchingly protrayed by film legend Burt Lancaster in one of his final roles.

"Field of Dreams" is a movie that is sentimental; a poingnant, Norman Rockwell-esque painting of Americana set to celluloid. It is a movie of regret and retribution, a celebration of life and love that tugs at your heartstrings while simultaneously lifting your spirits. From the beautiful cinematography to the endearing and memorable soundtrack , the film is a gem, and is the best of the best in terms of baseball films (and sports films in general) and is an essential film on my top 50 list of all-time movies.