The Final Countdown makes for nearly 2 hours of great entertainment for people of all ages.

It can be seen by young children, as the violence is not nearly as bad as what is seen in films today. The foul langauge is minimal.

It is also THE BEST FILM for showing life and aircraft operations aboard a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.

The cast (stars Kirk Douglas, Martin Sheen, Charles Durning and James Farentino) are excellent, and play well off of each other.

The plot, which focuses on the Nimitz being time-warpped back to the day before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour is an excellent concept...especially for the late 1970's, when the movie was filmed.

The big issue among the main players is whether or not to interefere with the course of history...should they destroy the Japanese fleet - or let history take its course? If you have not seen the flim - I will not give anything away.

However, the real "star" of the film is the U.S.S. Nimitz...and her "airwing" consisting of the fighters-attack and other assorted combat warplanes. The markings on the aircraft were without question the coolest-looking of any "carrier air wing" at that time or since then. This is especially true of the F-14 Tomcat squadron "VF-84 Jolly Rogers" (with the skull & cross-bones markings).

You get to see ALL of the aircraft up-close and in great detail. You also get to see great footage of the crew preparing the planes for combat and launching off the deck.

You get to see flight-deck operations up close like no other movie...and far more realistic than seen in "Top Gun" (which was more "Hollywood"-style entertainment). The fictional fight between two F-14s and two Japanese Zeros in Final Countdown was more realistic than the bigh fight at the end of "Top Gun"!

I bet a lot of teenage boys joined the Navy after seeing this film when shown in theatres in 1980!

Some people believe "Final Countdown" is a new-take on "Philadelphia Experiment"...about the World War II attempt by the U.S Navy to make ships invisible...and resulted in a horrible mishap to sailors onboard the ship.

Final Countdown has some plot holes...and could've spent more time on debating whether or not to change the course of history. But this may have been done because of time constraints.

If you have never seen "Final Countdown", I promise you will find it highly entertaining...and even thought-provoking!

P.S. The new Blu-Ray disc has several never-before seen extras...including an interview with the VF-84 Jolly Rogers F-14 Fighter squadron. This alone may make buying "Final Countdown" worth the price!!