WOW! I've always loved this flick & this Special Edition made me appreciate it all the more. Sergio Leone took all of our American, safe, comforting & familiar Western conventions, blew them all to hell & then thrust a jarring, jagged, grotesque epic in our faces. Even the landscape itself is alien-looking to us: sun-blasted & disturbingly weird, as though its from another world. The sets are all weathered, battered & awful-looking. Most of the people are striking in the strangeness of their appearance. Characters are unshaven, filthy, wear dirty clothes & look like they smell terrible. That's all just part of the foundation of this film, the characterizations are the biggest shock. Clint's Blondie is The Good (!!!???). What the hell? He could only possibly be considered as even remotely good in comparison to the other two & even then his "goodness" is strictly a matter of degree. Towards the end, he briefly comforts two dying soldiers & those are the only acts of human kindness in the whole movie. Also, he pets a small kitten instead of making a meal out of it or something. And when he double-crosses his associate he only steals all the money from their partnership and then abandons him in the middle of the desert instead of shooting him. So goodness is strictly relative in this flick. But its hard to imagine a story where a character like Tuco is comic relief. Also, Angel Eyes is truly an all-time great villain. Clint, Eli Wallach & Lee Van Cleef are uniformly fantastic in their parts. Imagine a Brooklyn Jew making the best cinematic bandito ever!

Now for the script - almost every scene is the height of absurdity & impossible events & unbelievable coincidences are strictly routine. There's an extremely fine-tuned, bizarre, subtle sense of humor at work here & the viewer gets a constant feeling of disbelief & unreality throughout the entire film. Leone perfectly balances the sublime with the ridiculous every step of the way & creates a unique moviegoing experience. The vast themes of war & all its tragedies are mixed in with some utter craziness as he goes along.

The extras are very enjoyable. First is the added footage. It felt like a new experience to me & I've seen this flick I don't know how many times. Kudos to Eastwood & Wallach for dubbing their parts so these extra scenes could be added. I was unaware that both Lee Van Cleef & Sergio Leone had died in 1989. It'd be interesting to have their participation & hear their observations. The interviews are quite good as well. Most telling to me was Clint's observation that Leone was so extravagant & meandering while he, Clint, was more economical & direct & that this was the major difference between the two of them.

How could I forget the music? This soundtrack is just fantastic - one of the all-time greats, if not the very best ever. It fits and complements the action perfectly.

I was careful not to include any spoilers for those lucky people who haven't seen GBU yet. To see it for the first time is a wonderful experience. I can't recommend it highly enough - even those who are sure that they'll despise it just may be pleasantly surprised. Like I said, all the machismo is offset by a truly wild, intelligent & unusual sense of humor. Buy this Special Edition - its well worth it!