This is a very nice set to have, but I do have some gripes.  While it's cool to see the show's very first episode or two, the novelty wears off and we slowly realize that the show hadn't yet hit it's stride, so what we get are five OK episodes, while hundreds of far superior ones lie waiting in dusty Disney storerooms.

A glassy-eyed and downright giddy Leonard Maltin hosts once again. I really wish Disney would find someone else to do this.  Actually the "hosting" isn't even really neccessary.  After all, we are not just the casual Disney fans buying these Disney Treasures DVDs, and often the commentary seems aimed at the total Disney novice.

The Mouseketeer reunion on Disc Two is nice, as several of the originals discuss their lives during and after The Club.  It doesn't offer much information not easily available elsewhere, but their obvious affection for the Club and each other is appealing.

The "Mouseketeer Roll Call" listed as a bonus feature on this set is unfortunately nothing more than just a list of the names of the original Mouseketeers.  My favorite bonus feature is the fuzzy but interesting "The Mouseketeers Debut at Disneyland" a color sequence of the original group performing live. The menu design is very nice, but I found no Easter Eggs.

All in all, this is a nice addition to the Disney Treasures Collection, I only wish they had included some more various 50's episodes so we could see the other (far better) opening sequences and talent portions.  Also, with many of the classic cartoons now available in color, it's almost tragic to have to watch them in black and white.

Speaking of color, I would like to vote for the release of some episodes of the New Mickey Mouse Club from the 70's.  Besides being in color (Walt had always intended to bring the Club to audiences in color and I think the 70's team did him more than proud) these shows boast another terrific (and refreshingly multi-ethnic) batch of kids, great production numbers and classic Disney serials and cartoons in COLOR.  This was head and shoulders better than the 90's club in that the Disney spirit really came through.