I'm writing this review based upon seeing this Blu-ray release on a Blu-ray player that wasn't mine and I wasn't able to really put the release through the paces. What I did see impressed me, however. I'm awaiting the arrival of my order from Amazon UK. From what I've personally seen in person and what I've read in various locations online the transfer of this film to Blu-ray makes it better than the original DVD release even though things would have been better if it had been remastered the. The DTS audio is a huge plus. The one downside is that they didn't add any new extra content whatsoever. I'm fine with that, however.

The Crow has always ranked on my list of favorite movies. All the subsequent sequels were garbage. The darkness of the movie, Brandon Lee, the music used, etc, all make it a great experience for the viewer. Rating this movie for content and the story is an easy 5 but it's one of those movies that people either love or hate. I've never met anyone who had an opinion in the middle.

Finally, I am not ordering this from Amazon US since they don't carry it. I never had the chance to since it's supposedly been discontinued according to Amazon. I ordered my copy from Amazon UK for $16 including shipping. I'm buying the Region B Blu-ray which means it won't play on a North American Region A player. I don't have to worry about the region issue but most people in North America do. I don't want people reading my review and then buying the Amazon UK version only to find that this Region B release won't play in their Region A Blu-ray player. I've warned people so I take no responsibility for people who don't heed my warning.

I'm rating this a 4 because it's not a perfect Blu-ray release. Getting the Blu-ray release required extra effort and the ability to play Region B discs, it lacks new bonus material while it is labeled a Collector's Edition release, and it wasn't remastered which would have made it better. For those negative points I subtracting 1 star. Because The Crow this is a great movie, and from what I have seen of the Blu-ray release it is worth having in a Blu-ray library, I'm giving it a 4.

EDIT: I have now received my Region B release of the Blu-ray and watched it. I'm more than happy with it. There's no extra content but I now have it added to my Blu-ray collection and it's better than my original standard DVD release. I see that a few people are now selling the item through Amazon US since I posted my initial review. The prices are simply ridiculous. I strongly recommend people who can play a Region B Blu-ray disc to just buy the disc new from Amazon UK. I paid all of $16 including shipping from the UK to the US. The three people selling it through Amazon US are marking it up simply because they can. The guy asking $9999 is a clown. Save yourself the money and time and just buy it directly from Amazon UK.