Had it not been for Elmer Bernstein's incredible main theme for "The Magnificent Seven" (1960), it well could well have been that his march  and main theme for John Surges' "The Great Escape" (1963) would  have emerged as his most recognizable musical creation.  Even so, the score  for "The Great Escape" remains one of Bernstein's best efforts  and one of the great film scores of all time.  The music (and the film) is  so well known that descriptions of individual cues are actually redundant.  What does require comment, however, are the two presentations of this music  on compact disc.  Sadly, the original soundtrack album has never been  complete.  Oddly enough, the score for Bernstein's earlier effort.  "The Magnificent Seven," fared much better with a nearly complete  recording from Ryko-MGM (1998).  Despite beautiful packaging, the Ryko-MGM  release (1997) of the "The Great Escape" simply restored the  tracks from the original United Artists' LP with a couple of bits of  "incidental dialogue" thrown in for a "Deluxe Edition."  More recently, Bernstein recorded a so-called "Definitive"  recording of his music with the Royal Scottish National Orchestra for RCA  Victor-BMG (1998).  The acoustic dynamics of the recording are outstanding,  save for one very sour note (the end of "Discovery"), but the  packaging is rather shabby, and there is less than three minutes of  "new" music.  The most notable addition is the brief opening to  "First Casuality," which is a dramatic variation on an earlier  theme that forms the climax to a missing, and very impressive, two minute  cue, "Waiting for the Train," that has never been recorded.  "Definitive"?  Well, hardly.  While many of the missing cues are  quite brif, there is a good deal of music that could have been included, as  with the Ryko-MGM version of "The Magnificent Seven."  There is  yet one other oddity.  The original relaease of the film opened with a  familiar Nazi drum roll that has since disappeared from the VHS and DVD  versions of the film, and it was never included on the soundtrack albums.  It did, however, become part of the opening to the televison take-off on  "The Great Escape"..."Hogan's Heroes".  If the  "The Great Escape" can be called one of the best World War II  treatments, and it is just that, then Elmer Bernstein's fine score must  also be ranked as one of the great works in that genre; indeed, it may be  the definitive example.  There is a revival of sorts these days because of  the impact of "Chicken Run."  The intentional references to both  Sturges' "The Great Escape" and Berstein's score are clear and  worthy tributes to those truly great cinematic and musical works.