I prepared myself with the knowledge that New Frontier wouldn't measure up to the book. But, this is true of almost any book to film adaptation.

What did I love? First off, I loved the Flash. I totally want DC to produce a cartoon version of Flash for tv. I enjoy Wally on JLU, but this interpretation made him into someone I could truly root for. He is a man who is fearful but driven...with a splash of humility and humor. It didn't matter that he was Barry...he could have been Wally or Jay or Bart. The main thing seen here is respect to the man beneath the mask. The Flash in New Frontier is a true hero and I can see why his hometown would honor him with a museum. The Flash was the best part of this movie.

Hal Jordan was also great. It's funny how perfectly David Boreanaz was for the part. It almost seemed like the animators made Hal resemble the popular Angel and Bones actor. In the opening job interview scene at the restaurant, with Carol, he looked just like Boreanaz. Or does Boreanaz just resemble Hal? Whatever the answer, it was a perfect voice performance. Hal was the second best part of the film. He was actually Hal more than GL and I didn't care. They made Hal a true hero and, maybe for the first time ever, truly felt connected to the character. I've always connected with Jon and Kyle more. This is a watershed moment for Hal Jordan in animation.

What else did I love? J'onn was amazing. I loved him in JLU, but here he was just as heroic. It's cool how he almost seemed more human than Batman. (Who, was also done very well. He had more of a secondary role here. Which is fine. Usually Batman steals the show. It was nice to see Flash and GL get the spotlight.) I also LOVED Wonder Woman!!!!

Lucy Lawless is ideal as the voice of Diana. I hope they keep her for the upcoming WW dvd they are doing. She was tough but had a sense of humor as well. Her determination and bravery was well done in her all too brief scenes. My first complaint is that I wanted to see more of this Diana. The invisible plane moment was cool and I liked when she took over for Superman in leading the troops. (Nice to see the Blackhawks and Adam Strange get cameos as well.)

Also, the History of the Justice League extra on disc one is a must see. Mark Waid and Stan Lee were my favorites. This is a great introduction to the DCU for new fans.

New Frontier isn't close to being as good as the book, but, as a tribute and a way to lure viewers to the comic version, I say it's pretty darn perfect. Major kudos to DC for including a leaflet in the dvd advertising the graphic novel of NF. The animation is done with love and the voice acting is perfect. An extra 20 minutes would have been nice to flesh out the story a bit, but, as is, it is still worth everyone's time. Don't watch New Frontier to see what they cut out...just enjoy it for what it is: a rollicking, action packed adventure that celebrates the DC Universe.