Well, well, well.  Here we are with another Coen Brother's film.  Joy. If you've seen any of their films, you pretty much know what to expect.  Sure enough, this one holds true to form.  
Let's start with the theme.  In fact, just for fun, let's play a little guessing game.  I'll give you four choices, you guess the theme:  
a.  The perseverance of the human spirit in the face of extraordinary adversity.
b.  The power of love as a means of transforming human beings.
c.  The power that each of us has to selflessly act in ways that benefit those around us.
d.  The emptiness, meaninglessness and futility of contemporary American society.
Come on.  You can do it.  Take a wild stab in the dark.  
Good.  We've cleared that up.  Except for one problem:  the theme isn't developed.  To be developed, we would have to know how the goals and desires of  The Man Who Wasn't There were thwarted, or deadened, by this meaningless American society.  Are they?  Well, we don't know.  We don't know because we really don't know a thing about this Man, other than that he doesn't think of himself as a barber, and that he is stuck in a loveless, passionless marriage.  We know nothing of his past, though he obviously had one--he's easily 45 years old--and he acts and walks around like some kind of a zombie;  indeed, like nobody we've ever met.  He is a straw man.  Created for the sole purpose of attempting to make, for the zillionth time, a hackneyed point.  
Then there is the society that the Coen brothers have chosen to place their character:  America, of course, specifically Santa Rosa, CA, in 1949.  Here is what we are supposed to believe life in little Santa Rosa was like in 1949.  Downtown looks like New York City, or at least San Francisco, with multi-story buildings, and hundreds of people walking around.  The barber, the "man who wasn't there," does not like to talk to his customers.  Let me repeat this:  he takes a job in a barbershop--during these times the informal clearing-house for information and male camaraderie--and does not like to talk to his customers.  The manager of a department store, once again in tiny little Santa Rosa, nevertheless has a huge, beautiful office, that looks like it belongs in the 1989 Transamerica Pyramid.  The department store itself is loaded with neon, and for a Christmas party is made to look like a Las Vegas ballroom.  The wife of the murder victim expresses an opinion to the central character that she believes her husband was abducted then killed by aliens.  Outer-space aliens.  In space ships.  In 1949.  A teenaged girl, in order to express her appreciation for our hero--in his forties, remember--attempts to gratify him orally in broad daylight and while he is driving an automobile.  America. 1949.  I could go on.  
In other words, the society that has been created for this film never existed.  We have an unbelievable character living in a non-existent society.  So much for a meaningful theme.

Next is the plot.  The film is obviously in the style of a film-noir, and it is made by the Coen brothers, so of course you must expect there is going to be murder and blackmail and other such goings-on.  But the actions of the characters make no sense.  What was the central character's motivation for setting this chain of events in motion in the first place?  Sure, he's bored out of his mind, but when hasn't he been?  What's changed?  Why would he decide to invest money on a dopey scheme and with a person whose personal habits he finds so distasteful?  Why would he so nonchalantly go to the manager's office, knowing what he might be confronted with?  
The plot also hinges on the police taking actions--arresting certain people for certain things--that are patently absurd.  I don't want to give anything away, but for the first arrest, there is no evidence and no motive.  It's mind-boggingly inane.  Are we really expected to accept all of this on faith?  
And as in all Coen brother's movies, there are many characters here who are ludicrously and cartoonishly drawn.  The police detectives, for example, are right out of a comic book, the brother-in-law is often buffoonish, and the lawyer is a way over-the-top, amoral, Johnnie Cochrane type, even going so far as to use a nursery-type rhyme to make a point.  
This is also what we've come to expect from the Coen brothers.  It is almost as if they are afraid to take their films too seriously, fearing perhaps that they would open themselves up to criticism.  By throwing in these loony characters, they can always pretend they were going for dark, impenetrable humor or something, and say to their critics that they, "just didn't get it."  Well, I get it.  I get that they are morbidly afraid to take risks. 
It is stylishly filmed, though, in noirish black and white, and in the end we realize that this, after all, is the point.  Technique is all:  a sensible plot, believable characters, and a provacative theme don't matter.  But there is a realistic, gory, brutal murder scene.  You can always count on the Coen brothers for a sickening, horrible murder.  Woo hoo