I highly recommend this movie. The characters are believable, the story uplifting, the scenes artfully made, and the music irresistible. I love this movie so much I had to buy the movie soundtrack, the book (screenplay) itself by Lee Hall, and the video in VHS and DVD.
The story revolves around Billy Elliot, an 11-year-old, motherless boy, who secretly traded boxing lessons to pursue his dream of becoming a ballet dancer. His father and elder brother were opposed to this idea. They were miners on strike at that time. But with the guidance of a determined teacher played by Julia Walters (nominated for Oscar's best supporting actress in this film), Billy studied and practiced dancing after school and whenever he could find time, until he was ready to audition for the Royal Ballet School.
Billy's father and brother eventually realized they had to give the boy the chance for the audition. After raising enough money through the help a friend George, and by the father pawning the jewelry of his late wife, Billy finally would have his chance of a lifetime. Billy went for the audition with this dad. They went home unsure but eagerly awaiting its outcome.
The letter from the school came. The father, elder brother and grandmother sat anxiously, while Billy went to a room to open the letter. Billy passed the audition. 
The mining strike was over. The father and brother went back to work. Years later, they were seen getting off the train to London, into a full-packed theater, where Billy was the dancing star on the stage.
This is a movie that will stay in my mind for a long time. It points out the fact that there's a special talent inside each one of us that's waiting to come out. Whatever that talent is, one only needs to be true to oneself.
Stephen Daldry's first-time feature film direction was excellent; the scenes move fast and every single one of them was effectively used to build up the story.  Lee Hall's screenplay was heartwarming, though it's hard to understand some of the words because the language and accent used are of the Northern British region. Peter Darling's choreography was impassioned. Jamie Bell who played Billy Elliot was engaging; he has a rare talent for acting and dancing.
One will hear countless use of the four-letter "f" word in the dialogue, which gained for itself the "Restricted" rating. I don't know if the director and writer should have tried to limit the use of this word so as to include the PG-13 audience. I don't know much about Northern British culture, particularly one of a working class family, to say whether this kind of language is appropriate or not.
Overall, Billy Elliot is a very good movie. To me it, it's one of the best films of all time.  I give it five stars.