The English Patient took its rightful place as my favorite movie when I first saw it in 1997 (I wish I had caught it in theaters). It is only after reading some of the other reviews of this film posted online that I chose to write a review. People deserve to know the facts, and many of these reviews seem completely misinformed. 
Any reviewer who talks about "some boring English guy" obviously never made it through to the end of the movie. Almasy is NOT English, and that is woven throughout the film as a mystery of his true identity and the heart-breaking irony (revealed at the end) that he was called "The English Patient". 
The complaints about the length of this film are ridiculous - it's long, yes, but not as long as other renowned classics like Gone with the Wind or Lawrence of Arabia. And the pace of The English Patient will only seem slow to someone who desires nothing more than quick entertainment with no thought required. This film is a Best Picture Oscar winner!!! It's not supposed to give you a quick jolt of Hollywood glitz! 
Reviewers that tell you to watch this only once and then to not waste the time again are in the same group as those who tell you that the plot was confusing and hard to follow. Every time I watch this movie I get something new out of it. Some new bit of information clicks, some scene makes sense in a new context.
If you want to catch all the wonderful intricacies of the plot, watch it over and over again. 
And finally, for the many reviewers who seemed to consider the characters non-human and unapproachable and the story nothing more than recycled sentimental garbage, they missed a lot of the magic of this film. This ending never fails to make me cry, and the emotional range of the actors is incredible. And yes, it's a romance, so perhaps the man is too good to be true, and perhaps the woman is too lustful to be believable, but that's what films are all about. And as far as that particular media goes, I find The English Patient to be near perfection.