I am an Anderson fan, but with all his movies I usually have to watch them a second time before I fully appreciate them.  He shoves so much stuff (character wise, dialogue wise, visually and so on) that you miss so much on the first viewing.  Tenenbaums is the only that worked for me the first time around fully, but amazingly the next few times I watched it I still got more out of it.  I am figuring the same will happen with Life Aquatic.

Murray plays as oceanographer Steve Zissou, a Cousteau-like filmmaker who goes in search of the jaguar shark who killed his friend, taking along a crew of eccentrics, including his "maybe-son" Ned (Owen Wilson).  In all honesty the jaguar shark isn't important, it's really just an excuse for Zissou to get through a mid-life crisis he is currently experiencing, triggered by the fact many people think he is now a hack filmmaker.  He hopes finding and killing the shark (sticking dynamite up an uncomfortable place is the plan) and catching it on film, as well as a possible father/son subplot, will return him to his former glory.

Those expecting a "wacky adventure" about the search of the shark may be disappointed.  That's not to say wacky and odd things don't happen (they definitely do, ranging from budget problems to pirates) but the film is more character driven than plot driven (as I said before the shark isn't important, just a driving device, a sort of "McGuffin") and that may throw off some.

Upon first seeing it I was a tad disappointed, but thinking about it I'm gaining more of an appreciation for it (I can't wait to watch it again on Criterion DVD).  I think I was a tad disappointed that the sub characters weren't really developed but that is beside the point really as I think about it.  It's about Zissou and that's it, it's his story and the change that occurs is what the movie is really about.  People who watch it as a revenge movie will definitely be disappointed by the end, but as long as you realize it's a story about Steve (not the shark) the ending is quite effective, and sort of sad.

The movie is quite funny, but not as funny as Tenenbaums (maybe a second viewing will help there because Tenenbaums definitely got funnier with each viewing).  The humour is pretty dry and subtle.  Some of it revolves around the fact Steve really doesn't know much about the subject he's covering, the cheapness of his productions, odd sub characters (Dafoe is a riot as the "calm, collected, German" right hand man, Klaus) and his movies in general (the few we see are funny just because of how obviously staged they are, and I laughed my ass off at the one where they apparently found a thought to be extinct species because it was so phony).  There are a lot of throw away jokes as well, some great movie-making gags, and the scenes involving the pirates boarding, a raid on an island and another in Goldblum's lab were some of the funniest things I saw last year.  While the film did get incredibly silly at times, I at least had a smile on my face.

Anderson does direct it almost in a documentary style (though with his usual anal framing of having everything centered and in shot), some of the action scenes come off haphazard but it just conveys that documentary feel.  Some people have speculated that you are actually watching Zissou's finished film, making this movie a "movie-within-a-movie".  And while there are some things that would suggest that (including a surprise during the end credits, and the fact the gunshots sound like pop guns, and the alread mentioned odd but funny action sequences) I somehow doubt Anderson would go that route, as the movie would lose some of the effectiveness of the character arc that occurs.

The sea creatures are cool, stop-motion animated by Henry Selik, who did The Nightmare Before Christmas.  It adds a fantasy element that all Anderson films have

I had some problems that may change on repeat viewings.  I found the second half hour felt very off in terms of pacing.  The first half hour is funny and goes by fast, but then the second half hour almost stops.  His movies are never quick but they do move at a good pace and they work for me.  Thankfully at the midway point (or around there) it picks up again.  As well, as I also mentioned, I was disappointed it wasn't as funny as I would have hoped, but it might get funnier on repeat viewings now that I know the characters more (the same happened with Anderson's other films for me).  I laughed quite a bit, some sequences rather hard, but after Tenenbaums I may have been expecting more.  Sometimes it just comes off more silly than truly funny.

I do have to watch it again, though.  Thinking about it I like it a lot more than I originally did, but it's a film I'm sure that requires a few viewings (even cast members such as Huston and Murray had to watch it a few times before it fully made sense, Murray said this on Letterman, to which the audience laughed, but he wasn't kidding.)  So much is going on that I know I missed some things.  Anderson's attention to detail is incredible and it makes repeat viewings worthwhile.

I know many will hate it on first viewing because I know many like things handed to them and that they don't have to think about it afterwards (and chances are to get the full effect you will have to watch it again).  I know people have trouble with character driven films, and films that do require concentration and your attention, but if you make the effort you'll definitely get something out of it.  This movie doesn't hand anything to you (even the jokes require your attention) and it does require your participation.  It is an odd and quirky film, just a little off of reality, but it does have a heart.

My opinion might change on it after I get the DVD and watch it and the supplements (I'll either like it more, or dislike it more) but as of now I think it was an unfairly overlooked film that people weren't expecting.  It might find a good audience, though.  Despite the fact I know people hated it, it's the first Anderson movie I saw in the theater where the majority of people were laughing, and my wife (who doesn't like Anderson's other films) actually liked it as well.  Maybe it will find its audience on DVD.