Passionate dedication and perseverance shine and resonate within Chris Smith's inspired documentary about down-to-earthy stoner filmmaker, Mark Borchardt, his jovial, ever-present, burnt-braincell buddy, Mike Schank, and a merry band of fellow misfit outcasts and sympathizing 'straight' friends and family members who often hilariously and begrudgingly lend themselves and their time to Mark's cinematic endeavors.

The film is set in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Having lived in the approximate area all my life, and having spent a lot of time in Wisconsin growing up, I know the feel of it. Figuratively speaking, I know these guys very well, as do many of those who've seen this amazing film; Mark and Mike are the guys who weren't exactly popular growing up, felt discarded by most, had parents who, in some ways, really tried, yet failed to understand them, were anti-establishment, found refuge in heavy metal, playing music, "Mad Dog" wine, LSD, smoking pot, Creepy comics and horror movies, dropped out of high school, and in an odd sense, dropped out of the mainline of society to some extent - yet, in their own time and space, somehow manage to build a life and fit into the scheme of things. Sometimes there's much more to the picture than meets the eye.

"American Movie" isn't as much about the final product, Mark's film, as it is about the lives of ordinary outcasts achieving some semblance of personal success on different levels and on their own terms. Like old close friends, there's that at-ease sense of knowing that if you went to have a few beers with Mark and Mike, there'd be no snide remarks, or harsh, materialistic judgements, and no shortage of common interests. And much like the infamous mockumentary, "This Is Spinal Tap," if you've ever 'been there' in any personal capacity, you'll immediately recognize certain aspects of what's revealed with sometimes humorous and/or depressing results.

One of the most fascinating characters of the film is Uncle Bill, who died shortly after it was completed. The guy's funny as hell without necessarily always trying to be, and if you stumbled into any given scene he's in without well-rounded knowledge of the film's substance and intent, you could easily perceive it as making none-too-funny fun of a crotchety, semi-senile old timer{"that toenail's a science photo!"} A friend of mine who began watching from the middle of it got this incorrect first impression, however, that's clearly not the case, and you sense that Mark was probably closer to Uncle Bill than he is his own father whose confidence in Mark seems to run hot and cold.

Uncle Bill trails off a lot. He reminds me of that Metallica song "The Unforgiven." He seems perpetually lost in a haze of broken hearts and broken memories, and even though an old man staring down tragedy and lost opportunities at his life's end obviously doesn't lend itself very well to humor, the guy remains simultaneously sharp as a tack and witty ...yet on his own wavelength. What strikes you is the unspoken awareness of someone who has lived enough to see just about everything, having reached the other end with precious little confidence in his own family members, and even less hope for mankind {"Jesus help you..."} His final thoughts close the film out, tugging at the heart, as you read that he died and left money for Mark to complete his film, "Northwestern."

Maybe it's because much of "American Movie" was filmed around the holidays, but it's usually this time of year that I dig this dusty gem out. The DVD is loaded with extras. The film is funny, inspiring, touching, and the real deal.