i saw this movie at the recommendation of my friend with some reluctance.first, i knew that alfonso cuaron had directed two films before and i didn't like them.and second, if my friend like it, i knew that this movie probably has a lot of sex. but i went and saw it anyway and i was completely blown away. it was quite a moving experience. and since a lot of people (no doubt) have summarized the film, i'll just review the dvd.the format of the menu, is quite nice; big, bold letters with scenes from the movie playing in the background and accompanied by some muzak.the first surprise is probably the first special feature you'll come across- the short film, Me La Debes, which, translated, means "You Owe One". it is pretty much a companion piece to the film, directed by carlos cuaron, alfonso cuaron's brother (who also co-wrote Y Tu Mama Tambien). you can see that much of Y tu Mama's profanity and sexuality came form carlos cuaron. this short film is about a family who have sex before going to bed(but not with each other!the father has sex with the maid, the daughter has sex with her boyriend). i found it brilliant and hilarious, though it does lack Y Tu Mama's depth and poigancy.the deleted scenes are a bit  disappointing, especially if you're expecting more sex.you only get three extra scenes and they're less than a minute long each..but the stoned scene is pretty funny.the making-of featurette is great, even though it is too short. it is delivered in the same spirit as the movie, complete with the deadpan narration, and just as funny,too. my favorite part is alfonso cuaron's practical joke on lead actress maribel verdu.and then there's the commentary, alas nothing from the director but form the cast members, who share as much insights and anecdotes as their characters.and lastly the trailers, which partly annoy me, 'cuz they don't really tell you much about the movie. and seeing that you never hear a word of dialogue, you'd think you're going to watch a silent film.it's the same for the majority of trailers for foreign films.the digital tranfer is great, giving much sheen to Emmanuel Lubezki's verite cinematography. and the sound's pretty good, too although this type of movie doesn't really require 5.1 audio.the movie is really the reason to buy this dvd. it lets you see a another part of world cinema, mexico. and along with amores perros, y tu mama tambien puts it firmly on the cinematic map. you kind of wish there were more movies like this;but then again, that's what makes them so special,so maybe not. anyway Y Tu Mama Tambien is a treat.