I'm almost ashamed to say, I did not see this movie until well into my adult life. I do love movies and always wondered why this is at the top of everyone's "best of" lists.  My son is also growing to love "old" black-and-white films (because we tell him they are "for grownups"), so we downloaded this from Amazon On Demand to watch together.  The HD print was awesome on our HDTV . . . this is a "big" movie but it was fine on our regular 42" flatscreen. The movie, while not "for kids" in the traditional sense, was actually pretty interesting to my grade-schooler -- it does feature Kane as a child, in no small part, and tellingly my son's own questions ("where did his mom go? Is that man his friend now?") managed to cut to the heart of the story itself! Not to mention the ending -- wow, did the two of us ever understand what "Rosebud" truly meant.

Orson Welles, if you only know him as an old man, was an astoundingly handsome and snappy young actor. Kane is a "larger than life" man who grew up wealthy, "inside" the establishment, but instead of following along and being a "good fellow" he pursues tabloid journalism -- both to be a thorn in the side of the establishment and to feed his own, ever-growing ego.  Along the road, he gets bigger and bigger while -- well, you might think you know where this kind of story always goes, but you have to see it to really feel HOW it gets there.  Welles hits every note perfectly. The film takes place mostly in flashbacks, which of course these days is par for the course, but (again with through a grade-schooler's eyes) the technique creates its own story of reminiscences, confusion and detachment from the past ("When is that? Who is that? Is he young or old?"). The big moments from Kane's life -- and there are huge ones, literally operatic -- ebb and flow through the (sad) reality of what his life ultimately became.  This movie is so big and bold -- the span of the story is bold, Charles Foster Kane's ambitions are bold, the sets are bold (this is one of the first films to show ceilings of indoor sets! It was an extravagance at the time because sound stages usually had no ceilings!) And, one of my favorite things about old movies -- it is a historic record in itself, a living singing picture of the world in 1941 -- an era of suits, cars, phones and city streets that are so different from ours. But when it comes to politics, news, ego and love (or "love") Citizen Kane still rings true -- and we have not come so far, after all.