I will try not to repeat what other reveiwers have said, so I will be short about all the qualities of this miniseries: excellent actors, engrossing storyline, excellent reconstruction of the siege as it happened.

Of course, one has has to keep in mind that Masada has become a symbol for all-out Jewish patriotism. This is quite evident in this miniseries. But I wonder whether it could be different.

As some other reviewers have mentioned, the only historical source we have is the works of Flavius Josephus, a man who, after being one of the rebels' leaders, went over to the Roman side. And wrote his books only later. You cannot expect serious historical accuracies from only one witness (think of what you could get, and how many versions you could get, with a randomly-chosen American from the sixties decribing the Vietnam war.)

The more reliable information we have from Flavius Josephus lie probably in the technical aspect of the siege, and the miniseries is quite true in this respect. I would stronly caution anyone against believing the rest too easily: whether the Masada defenders were Zealots or Sicarii (that is, Jewish patriots or assasins), please remember that Flavius Josephus never was one of them, even before he changed sides. If you want another comparison with the present, there were many political parties in Israel at the time...

Just like there are many of them now. Another reviewer suggested reading "The Masada Myth", by Nachman ben-Yehuda. I have read it too, and once again this is not a book to be believed without some critical refexion. Mr. ben-Yehuda is obviously a man with a political agenda, intent on destroying the Masada myth. About which he does not shed any new light.

So, forget about historical accuracy. But enjoy the show. As I said at the beginning, I agree with these reviewers that make a long list of its qualities. You also have the right to share Mr. ben-Yehuda's opinion ("I watched the miniseries again before writing this book and I would not want it inflicted on anybody else.")But do not demand accuracy when so much remains unknown.

One more thing that seems to have escaped the reveiwers is that the defenders of Masada are often shown, in fact, as a image of modern-day Israel (for example, when Elazar ben-Yair tells the religious people : "God has delivered you to a place of work"

or when it is necessary to find the answer to terrorism , with Falco having hostages catapulted.)

Just watch it. It is certainly one of the best reconstructions of the Antique world. And you will not be bored. I hope it is released on DVD some day.