3 stars is perhaps a little generous, especially if one is basing her review on historical accuracy. and historically accurate it is not. aside from missing some key elements (namely: thomas moore, lady rochford's ultimate fate, and a large slice of anne of cleves), other aspects are just plain wrong - for instance, anne boleyn and katherine howard's executions on tower hill, not within the walls on tower green (come now, people), jane seymour is a little more assertive than sources would suggest, and katherine howard appears a bit reluctant to go, despite the substantiated offer that she admit to a precontract with dereham (also missing) and void her marriage to the king, thereby saving her life. other signature moves were also noticeably absent: anne boleyn's hair hangs down in her face for a majority of the movie and is not held back by the hallmark french hood, alas she also never says the wonderful, if not precisely corroborated "your wife i cannot be, your mistress i will not be" line - though she more or less conveys the notion. the nun of kent does not make an appearance and neither does anne askew. katherine parr and henry appear to have a rather placid arrangement towards the end - there is no threat to parr and henry is at least somewhat mobile toward the end of his life. also disappointing was the absence of katherine howard's famed run through hampton court, shouting after henry.

well, yes there is all that. but i do love tudor england and will watch just about anything produced on the subject. though heralded as "henry viii", this is really a movie about the king's relationships with his wives (and yes, his obsession for a son) and is not a film about the entirety of the king's reign. you miss all of the events preceeding the eviction of catherine of aragon.

i expected all of this and accommodated my expectations for such. it is an entertaining slice of time, which i am sure i will repeat, given the tudor-phile that i am. ray winstone gives a rather sympathetic portrayal of henry while still suddenly turning him into a raging madman. the actor who played norfolk was decent, probably from previous practice, as i swear i've seen him in this same role before. still, there are some irregularities that almost spoil the fun. sadly to say, even the costumes are not that spectacular. helena bonham carter unfortunately looks a little truncated and, well, boxy in her weirdly-done bodices. if you enjoy period pieces, especially tudor england and can forgive the historical atrocities, then i would recommend the netflix version of viewing.