Hollywood has a long history of taking Broadway theatricals and turning them into successful films. In 1940, this process produced "The Philadelphia Story" which had been very popular while on the stage with Katherine Hepburn. As it happened, Katherine was given a lot of control over the film.  She chose all the leads and virtually had the film adaptation custom crafted for her. The end result was a fabulous cast, great performances and one of the funniest scripts ever produced. One final bit of trivia, the studio claimed to have shot the entire film without the need for any second takes. 
For the most part, this is an interesting film because it has interesting characters. And like any good cuisine, the ingredients are added with impeccable timing and in such a way as to produce a very spicy result. Instead of identifying with one central character, we are forced to wear the shoes of at least three. James Stewart plays, Macaulay Connor, a dissatisfied reporter working for a society rag. He represents the white-collar class. Hepburn and Cary Grant each represent the upper class. Hepburn is Tracy Samantha Lord, a wealthy heiress who is planning to wed for the second time, after rejecting her first husband on the grounds of what seems to be  alcoholism. Grant plays that ex-husband, C. K. Dexter Haven, a now reformed drinker who is still in love with Tracy but is forced to make her life more difficult on the day before her upcoming nuptials. 
There is a strong social commentary within the film. Tracy's betrothed, George Kittredge, is a working class lad who has worked his way to success. He is possibly the only unlikable character in the movie; as his ambitions are a little too obvious, his mind a little to shallow and his love a little too conditional. There is some early foreshadowing of doom for their relationship. The most obvious clue comes when George tries to mount his horse, after refusing help, and makes a botch of it. Each little scene is jam packed with meaning. The movie would certainly make an interesting study for film students. 
All of the main characters, barring George, go through significant changes throughout the movie, even if they only change in our perceptions.  Tracy's ice-princess veneer is shattered and she becomes a warm, vulnerable and loving woman. Macaulay drops his prejudices, finds some moral fibre and finally stands up for what he believes in. Dexter forgives himself and in doing so, forgives Tracy. Even Tracy's Father turns out to be a caring and wise figure, instead of the distant, immoral playboy we hear described at the start. 
Overall the film is too clever for words. They just don't make films like this anymore. It actually relies on the audience to get the joke. The puns, cultural references and interactions are not forced down our throat with a laugh track and a snare-drum. That's not to say you have to work hard to "get" this film; it's more like talking with your friends; you just understand, without further explanation. Everything about this film is perfect, which makes it a delight to watch time and time again. If you don't mind classic black and whites, you'll love Philadelphia Story.