Upon first viewing, this movie seemed to me to be little more than a pretty, weak-plotted 'conservation' film, but many subsequent viewings reveal such a wonderfully subtle plot it is nothing short of amazing that I missed it completely the first times through.
Not wanting to ruin any 'evolutions' of this movie for others, I'll just take the famous running-with-the-caribou scene. People's reactions this scene usually vary as follows:
1) Puritanical conservatives see it as an example of gross obscenity with a man 'revealing himself'. [This despite the fact that this movie lacks anything resembling such sexuality or sensuality. And yes, I've found a decent number of people that do find this scene OBscene for a PG movie.]
2) Your average film viewer just sees Tyler watching wolves chase down caribou as purely a spectator and a human one at that.
3) Yet others yet see Tyler as a man being utterly ridiculous and chasing down caribou himself. [I was in this group for many viewings]
I finally realized that this scene was really a moment of self-actualization for Tyler, himself lamenting earlier in the film always condemned to be an observer. For a moment, he understands Ootek, and like Ootek was as a boy, Tyler is "devoured by the wolf." At the moment of this chase, Tyler was a man only in physical appearance. For all other intents and purposes, he is a wolf. At least that's how I see it now. Maybe my opinion will change again the next time I watch it.
It's sad and telling of today's Disney how they distance themselves from this movie, retaining ownership only in the most formal of ways, so they still collect the profits at least. Only the most vigilant viewers will even notice this is a Disney film at all. Their name appears only in fine print copyright notices. It appears otherwise to the unassuming person to have been made independently and (very strangely!) a distributor's/third party logo (Anchor Bay) takes the place of a studio logo (Disney's) any place you might expect one. I've never seen such an attempt by a studio to distance themselves from a GREAT release, yet Disney plasters their name and logo all over a myriad of truly awful direct-to-video animation ventures and also promote to this day the movie 'Tron', a contemporary of 'Never Cry Wolf'.
I guess I'm just as happy they've let this movie be. It stands on its own well enough and doesn't have to have the full court press from a major studio to convince people to like it and buy it. Give it SEVERAL chances, you will find it a very meaningful way to spend a little spare time.