Ok, when I first looked at the video box for MKR season one I said to myself, "Oh no, not another Salior Moon look alike."  Not that I hate Salior Moon, but for that fact that it was to girly and intended for for pubescent girls.  Well, I deceided to rent it because the plot seemed different and I wanted to watch something else other than Salior Moon with the little girl whom I was babysitting for. (She's a Salior Moon nut!) Well, I was totally wrong.  The story line was a bit more advanced and I had a hard time explaining the sad ending to my little friend. However, we both enjoyed it.  Now she want's to be exactly like Hikaru and I don't have to listen to the Salior Moon opening song as much.  I decided to rent (and I eventually bought) the the 2nd season on DVD and was totally amazed!  The characters seemed to mature (bringing new and old love interests) and the ending was as surprizing as the first season.  
In season two, the girls return back to that magical world to right their wrongs from season one.  They get to see all the old characters from season one.  As well as a whole onslew of new characters.  Our three heros deal with more trying issues than in season one.  They each have to face all their fears and insecurites that was left at the end of season one, especially Hikaru.  There is also a bit of romance between the characters, and there is somewhat of a love triangle that includes Umi.  Like in season one, none of the supossed enemies are really bad, since they each have a hidden agenda. Nothing in this show is really black and white. The best thing about this show is how the girls, as well as some characters mature through out the show (especially Ascott, he matures alot!!) 
As for the animation, it rather good and done in the CLAMP Style however the dubbed version is a bit to high pitch to me! (I got used to it!)  The starting and ending songs are in dubbed english, too!  You get seven DVDs containing all of season two, the usual previews and extras on each dvd, and a nice collectors box to carry all the cases in.  It even closes (sometimes..it does pop open a few times..not very functional!!) 
This was a fun series to watch! I highly recommend it it!!! Also, I sugguest you watch the first season in order to understand the 2nd season.