Samantha Wynden, the daughter of a media tycoon and Andrew Kaulder, a photographer for that same tycoon, are both stuck in Mexico and have to make an enviablly long and dangerous trip back home.

Why is the trip dangerous? Is it because of warring drug cartels? No. They lost their identification? Well that dose happen but it's not the main problem. It's because six years before the story starts a space probe carrying extraterrestrial life decided to take a nose dive into Northern Mexico. Turning the entire region into a no-mans land full of hundred foot high Cthulhu like monsters with spider like legs, wipe-lashing tentacles and despite their rather destructive nature and thick hinds, have a very lovely bioluminescence.

Grudging Kaulder tries to escort Wynden home. As they get closer to the Quarantine Zone they see the scares from the last six years of keeping the creatures at bay are only just healing, life goes on and people still do their day to day things among the smashed battle tanks and broken buildings; despite warnings from both the Mexico and American authorities that the spawn of the Great Old One might make a break out.

After they get stuck at a ferry crossing the only other option is to go THROUGH the Quarantine Zone. What fallows is an adventure with a "Heart of Darkness/Apocalypse Now" vibe.  It is important to note the difference between HOD and AN, AN is a visceral war movie that barrow themes, the general hot muggy setting, and a single name from Joe Conrad's novella about misadventures in the Congo.  The tension when a creature approaches in the Mexican jungle is more akin to "Predator" then AN.

The characters are  more then cardboard cut outs, we learn just enough about them to care while not being smothered in character back story. We know that Kaulder is a photo-journalist who hates his job because the big money shots are of dead children and he has a six year old estrange son that he desperately wants a relationship with. Meanwhile Wynden purposes for being in Mexico is never fully explained and she finds her self engaged to man that she's lost all feeling for. When she talks to her fianc&eacute; over the phone in an abandon gas station you can see on her face that she has no love for the person she is talking to and finds that she has more in common with that scruffy camera man lounging against the gas pumps, watching a lighting storm.

"Monsters" is not "War of the Worlds" nor is it "Cloverfield" the title creatures are merely window dressing for a story about two lost and unhappy people trying to find something in a very insane world.

P.S. Garth Edward, the director, may be handed the director's chair to do Warner Brother's new version of Godzilla. WWWWWOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!