I was lucky enough to have seen Superman in the theatres when I was a child back in the 70s, and the sense of wonder it evoked in me then is renewed every time I watch it as an adult. Its epic grandeur, its sense of gravitas, has never been equaled by any other superhero movie (I mean, Marlon Brando, Glenn Ford, Trevor Howard, Gene Hackman, Mario Puzo, all screen legends of the time for a film based on comics? What were they thinking!). Christopher Reeve is the quintessential Superman, incredibly handsome, incredibly wholesome and good-natured, and his heroism on screen is all the more poignant in the light of what happened to him in real life. I still think that the CAN YOU READ MY MIND night-flying sequence is among the most romantic scenes in all cinema. This blu-ray version is beautiful. If you're looking for the sharpness of IRONMAN or BATMAN BEGINS on blu-ray, you will be disappointed. Much of the film is shot in a soft-glow style, and this look has been preserved in the blu-ray transfer. The Krypton sequences seem to take place behind a veil of haze, which might be frustrating for those of us used to the crystal-clear images of hi-def. But the Smallville sequences are  beautifully awash in golden sunlight and lush colours and the sharp outlines of prairie houses. They could have made the whole film sharper and clearer in the transfer, but this would have altered the sweeping, romantic, film-like feel of the cinematography. What you get here is better colour saturation. It's a pity that the studio did not offer the latest Dolby True-HD or DTS-HD Master Audio sound format; but the Dolby 5.1 sound here  still soars (John William's magnificent score is itself worth the price of admission). Compared to the earlier DVD edition, the channel separation in this blu-ray is more pronounced; towards the end when Jor-El warns Superman against tampering with history, check out how impressively his disembodied voice scans across all 5 speakers.  If you never had the chance to catch Superman in the theatres--or if you simply want to relive that experience-- the next best thing is to get this blu-ray and watch it in a darkened room at home on a large projector screen with surround speakers. (5 stars for movie, 4 stars for the blu-ray).