Burning Palms is a film made up of 5 short stories. From reading the descriptions, I knew the movie would be a bit on the strange side, but I liked the diverse ensemble of actors involved and knowing it was from the co-writer of Disturbia and Paranormal Activity 2, movies I really enjoyed, I took a chance on it.
The stories range from borderline creepy to deeply disturbing, with a  few funny moments peppered throughout.

The first story, THE GREEN EYED MONSTER,features Dylan McDermott,who I have always liked, as a father with a very close relationship with his 15 year old daughter. So close, in fact, that when she comes home from school to visit, it really disturbs his fiance (Rosamund Pike). She tries to accept what they call a very loving father-daughter relationship, but they seem to take the "loving" part a bit farther than what would be considered "healthy".

The second, THIS LITTLE PIGGY,features a young woman who "experiments" in a sex act with her boyfriend, but afterward starts to slowly come unraveled when she is convinced that she carries an "essence" of the act with her everywhere she goes. (That was as polite as I could make that appear)

 Act Three titled: BUYER'S REMORSE is about a gay couple (Peter  Macdissi and Anson Mount) who decide to "adopt" a 7 year old girl, only to realize raising a child is not quite as easy as it seems. This is probably the funniest of the stories involved.
It also had, in my opinion, a great title.

The fourth story titled KANGAROO COURT has Lake Bell (It's Complicated, No Strings Attached), who I admit to not really liking before, as a nanny of 3 boys who are left home by their parents with the household help. One of the boys happens upon some secrets about one of the staff members. It also stars Paz Vega (Spanglish), but it is Bell who really makes this selection as a pot-smoking "hippie-chick".  performance made me change my opinion of her(in a good way).
This entry is not quite as dark as the others.

The fifth and final chapter is the most disturbing story, MANEATER, and stars Zoe Saldana (AVATAR) as a woman who is raped in her home, and when stumbling upon her attacker's wallet, instead of having him arrested, invites him to her apartment so he can assault her again.

Burning Palms has the tagline "Five stories that will mess you up for life". This could definitely apply to some people who watch this movie, if they do not approach it with an open mind and armed with the knowledge of how twisted and perverse the film is. I did indeed find it quiet interesting, but not a film I would highly recommend. The cast (which also inclues Shannon Doherty as a therapist in 2 of the vignettes, does a great job with what they had to work with and Saldana, especially stands out in a role that must have been extremely difficult to play.

As much as I thought it hard to watch at times, I didn't let that stop me and think that some people will enjoy and possibly appreciate this  unique movie.

BE WARNED: this film is dark and twisted at times. It is not for everyone, so be sure you are up for something on this level if you choose it.