IF YA DON'T WANNA KNOW, DON'T READ BELOW!!!

I first read about this movie on [...] and was really interested to see it.  Being a long-time horror fan, I thought a nice Satanic-cult-throw-back-to-80s-horror would make for a great late-night watch.  Sadly, this movie nearly put me to sleep.  Yes, it's just that boring.  Even the awesome Mary Woronov & Dee Wallace couldn't keep me from being bored silly by this dull let-down.  And, besides, they were both really underused in this flick.  It needed much more of them in it.  They both REALLY must need the paycheck.  But, I digress...

In its defense, this movie gets the 'creepy' feel & tone down mostly well.  But, we've seen it all before in much better movies.  I could totally sense what this movie was TRYING to do but it never lives up to that anticipation.  Desperate girl takes a mysterious job at a spooky house where spooky people live and even though she knows something is not right she still stays proving she is an idiot.  This has been done 1,000 times before and this movie adds nothing but frustration and disappointment to that particular horror legacy.

I kept waiting for this movie to get good.  It had potential with the Satanic cult theme and the spooky house in the middle of nowhere right next to a graveyard theme but it just seemed to me that the director thought he was making something cool when it really just came off as tired, cliched rehash.  There just isn't a lot happening in this movie.  To be honest, the most shocking thing in the movie was the unexpected way the main character's best girlfriend gets it.  You just know she has to go but how it happens was so quick and unexpected, well, I just wished the rest of the movie gave me the same feeling that this particular death scene did.  Unfortunately, I was not to feel that way again.

At about 94 minutes in length you literally have to wait until the LAST 10 MINUTES for anything exciting to happen.  Seriously!  During the film there's a little bit of creepiness-while-exploring-the-house but most of this movie is simply godawful slow, tedious and boring.  When 'it' really starts to hit the fan at the end, it is so entirely anticlimactic because the villians are some of the easiest-to-dispose-of villians that I have ever seen in a movie.  It's laughable how easily they meet their demise.  Really, I laughed out loud because it was so unintentionally funny.  This, for me, really deflated how the movie had inflated these characters to be super creepy and scary and then they are so easy to kill.  And, finally, when the anticipated pay-off is about come it falls completely flat.  The moment-of-horror at the end when all is revealed is so corny and goofy that it's not even scary.  The monsters look cheesy, the acting plummets to new levels of awful and the ending feels like a slap in the face we've felt 1,000 times before with hokey & inferior low-budget films copying superior cinematic climaxes.  Satan's ill-conceived devil-child will live even if the unwilling mother-to-be lies in a gunshot-induced coma.  Yawn.

This is low-budget horror done poorly.  It's a shame because this movie had potential.  The massive, menacing house in the middle of nowhere storyline is intensely overdone but for awhile in this movie it got a little creepy.  I could honestly see a decent movie in here with a different director.  This was some of the worst direction that I have ever seen on film.  And the film is horrendously predictable.  And I mean you can see scenes set up 45 minutes from when they actually happen just by one character repeatedly mentioning certain dialogue.  Hint:  College kids like pizza.  The number for pizza is on the 'fridge.  There's the number for pizza.  Don't forget to call for pizza.

OK, we get it, sheesh.  The pizza's gonna be evil and this movie is gonna suck.  A terrible shame as I had much better expectations.  Oh, well, better luck next time.