Anyone who has been affected by the cancer of domestic abuse can relate, and find strength in this tragically beautiful film.  Once Were Warriors will come too close to home for many.

The stories center is Beth Heke(Rena Owen) a Moari matriarch, who is struggling to tend to her volatile family.  Rena Owen, and especially Temuera Morrison were criminally overlooked in international acclaim for their career defining performances.  Temuera Morrison's performance to this day strikes me to the core of my being as a character that I have known, fear, pity, and can relate to on many different levels.  The family's situation is volatile for the following reasons.

1.  The extreme levels of poverty and unemployment, and the social ills that accompany them.  The plight of the Moari people was compared once to the plight of Native Americans living on land reservations here in America, by a friend and resident of New Zealand.

2.  Her children Grace(Mamaengaroa Kerr-Bell), Nig(Julian arahanga), Boogie(Taungaroa Emile), and two youngest are all succumbing to their environment in dramatically different avenues.  Grace is the artistically inclined sensitive protector of her under 5 year old brother and sister.  Grace shields the little ones from the horror of life, at the cost of her own passions and talents.  Nig is approaching adulthood, and is heavily involved with urban street gangs.  Boogie is the teenager who is regularly in trouble with the police, and is looking at institutionalization.

3.  Jake Heke(Temuera Morrison) a.k.a Jake the Muss a.k.a. Beths husband and the childrens father.  Jake and his "friends" are the end product of the social machine that the children are dangerously close to entering.  Jake is regularly unemployed, constantly drinking with his friends, and always ready to answer any situation with rage and or fists.  Jakes regular target is Beth.

What this film is truly about(without spoiling the film) is rediscovering the pride that exists within a people.  Once Were Warriors transends all ethnic barriers in this respect( but does an outstanding job of shedding light on the little known Moari people).  Pride and history is present in all peoples.  To find solutions to the present, you have to examine the past.  Do not search for villains in this film.  Even in the monsterous Jake, one can still see the young boy that lost faith in his people, his family, and himself a long time ago.  A brutal, honest, soul ravaging film, this should be required viewing for any family