Like many people, I am adding to my MJ collection since his passing. I am really only interested in products that Mike himself put together because his vision and creativity can not be matched by anyone producing MJ merchandise post-mortem. I just received the Dangerous Short Films a few days ago---super fast shipping, by the way---it would take too many words to describe how wonderful this DVD is. Unlike some reviewers, I love the live footage of Mike at various award shows and venues. He did not talk much at his concerts so it's nice just to listen to him to talk, laugh, and see him smile. As soon as the movie started, I was glued to the TV. This is not just a collection of videos playing one after the other---that would be boring, which Mike NEVER was. This reminds me of Moonwalker. There are themes and structure that carry the overall story from one chapter(video) to the next.

All of the videos have behind-the-scenes footage, which I love so much. I have never been an MTV/BET/VH1 fan so honestly I've only seen probably half of MJ's vids, which is why I needed this DVD. I love Keep it in the Closet. I had never seen it before but have always wanted to. The chemistry between MJ and Naomi Campbell is electric and I love his look. Black and White is great in it's entirety. I had never seen the full version. Also included is footage of the controversy that followed the world-wide TV premiere. Jam is a lot of fun. I'm not a big fan of the song so I FFWD to the end and watched the candid footage of the 2 MJ's dancing, shooting hoops and laughing.

Give in to Me is a hot song with an exciting live-performance style video. (If you like the rock side of MJ, get the Blood on the Dance Floor CD.)

The only thing I miss from Dangerous Short Films is a booklet insert. Not that it's a requirement, but it would have given a nice tactile addition to the experience. There is no Bonus material to speak of. Although there is a Bonus link on the menu, it's just a static Discography of MJ's albums. All in all, I can't think of a better way for a Michael Jackson fan to spend 10 bucks. It's a steal!

Thank you Michael, for all the gifts you left behind. You will never be forgotten. Rest in Peace.