I recently purchased the remastered version of this wonderful series. The quality of the DVD is very acceptable but the volume needs to be cranked up to almost twice normal on my set. When watching there is no doubt that this was shot for television long ago - about 35 years in the form of a play made for television - harsh shadows from less than ideal lighting are not uncommon. Also, don't expect the quality sets that existed in shows like HBO's Rome or Riley Scott's, Gladiator. But, those shortfalls are very acceptable since both the story and the acting is top shelf. The DVD set includes a very useful chart of the family tree which I consulted many times while watching the series. It also includes about an hour or so on the movie, I Claudius, which was never made and is nothing special, especially if you watch that after watching the mini-series.

It does help to know a bit about Roman history of this period to fully appreciate the story but that is not required. I did know a bit about the history of this period and also learned much more including context for certain key events. For example, why did the pretorian guards, after killing Caligula, want a new emperor, Claudius, when Claudius himself didn't want the job and instead wanted the republic restored? The reason is that under Augustus the Senate created the Pretorian guards, about 4,500 of them - think of them as the ancient equivalent of the Secret Service and Gestapo for the emperor. Their job, which included higher pay than regular soldiers with a earlier retirement would mean that if the Republic was restored they would be out of work, and possibly end up roaming the streets taking what they want. They needed an emperor to hold their job plus going back to a republic could mean yet another civil war.

This a wonderful story with exceptional acting and by watching it more than once you gain a great appreciation for how little dialog is wasted on fluff. I watched it twice and just ordered the book which includes much more detail. This is a must have series for anyone that loves the roman empire or just a good story of plots, power, sex and raw ambition. All the major actors are perfectly cast and old uncle Claudius seems to just grown on you as the series progresses. There is a reason why 35 years later this series is still highly revered. It is different but just as compelling as HBO's Rome - it essentially picks up the story almost exactly where Rome (part II) left off, seven years after the Battle of Actium where Mark Anthony lost to Augustus and then took his own life - Mark Anthony's daughter, Antonia, is Clauidus' mother. Augustus then takes charge of the empire by himself and his wife, Livia, is far more ruthless than Atia, Augustus' mother featured in the HBO mini-series. Highly recommended!!!!