Wow.  I heard so many good reviews for this movie but was blown away by how bad it is.  I just don't get it.  Maybe because it starts off with a good idea (that quickly evaporates) people got hooked by their first impressions?  The good idea is, as so many here have noted, equating changing to a werewolf with menarche.  But halfway through the movie that idea is dropped.  It seems like they director was also somehow attempting to tie lycanthropy to drug use, or maybe to teenage depression and suicide.  But there's no real follow through with that either.  It's like someone got a lot of ideas that seemed deep while they were doing drugs, but those ideas look really dumb to someone sober.  In the end, it all turns into a cheesy and boring horror flick.

None of the characters are likable, so I didn't care what happened to anyone.  And as with most cheesy, slasher pics there's little sympathy for the dead.  Even the mother has a disturbing idea about the father at one point that totally comes out of nowhere, causes you to lose all liking for her, and then is dropped just as meaninglessly.  Nothing that happens matters to the viewer.  It just drags on and on.  The main sister, Brigitte, is too stupid for words and you spend the last half of the movie yelling at her for her inaction and flubs.  The actress playing her has one annoying expression.  You can see it on the box cover.  Gaping mouth and bugged eyes for the entire movie.  Plus for some unknown reason she wears a terrible, cheap, obviously fake wig, which is incredibly distracting.  I spent much of the slower parts, and there were many, watching its part slide farther down towards her ear and then move back up to center again.

Maybe standards have gotten so low that angsty teens think this is good, the effects, the acting, the plot.  Trust me, those comparing this to werewolf classics like American Werewolf in London, The Howling, Dogsoldiers, even Buffy are on crack.  I didn't give this one star because that's a movie I can't watch for even half an hour.  This, I forced myself to watch to the end - only to get loose ends.  Lame!