Go review the soundtrack already...this is for the MOVIE.

I thought this movie was great. I think of it as more of a thriller than a horror movie, because the "horror" is slow to get going, and never really picks up. There is no gore or any real scares, it's tame. But I still love this movie, I thought it was really well done.

Here is the basic storyline:

Eddie is a metalhead in high school, in the 80s. He gets tormented a bit. The girl of his dreams doesn't know he's alive.

He just gets on with it, being the stoic thrasher that he is.

But then his favorite rocker, Sammy Curr, dies in a fire. The local rock station DJ (Gene Simmons cameo) gives Eddie a never-released album by Sammy.

Eddie plays the record, and discovers Sammy communicating with him, telling him how to get even. It works at first, and Eddie is happy. But then things start getting out of hand, the people Eddie just wanted to even the score with are getting seriously hurt. Sammy "comes to life" and threatens to hurt people that Eddie never wanted to be hurt.

Eddie must find a way to stop Sammy!

If you are a metalhead you will appreciate all the little touches in this movie, like when Eddie's mom goes through his stuff and you see he has Possessed and Exciter records. How true.

There is no sex in the movie, but there is a great scene with a girl by herself if you know what I mean.

Good story and really great direction make this a pleasure to watch, even if it isn't true horror.

It also made me laugh my ass off at certain parts. Like on Halloween night, when Eddie opens the door to let his mom's boyfriend in the house. He is some little wimpy guy with glasses, dressed as Rambo. When Eddie opens the door, the guy is in a Rambo pose and says "Die, commie pig". Eddie just turns around and says "Mom, Stan's here"....I couldn't stop laughing. The part with the girl in the car is hilarious too.

The DVD has no special features, but looks and sounds great.

This movie didn't get five stars only because there wasn't more gore. I dont demand gore or anything, but they never really show the kills in this movie. I don't know if they just didn't have the budget, or if they wanted commercial appeal. The acting is good, aside from Eddie's mother, and Leslie, Eddie's dream girl. Both of them suck at acting, but eveyone else comes out like a champ.

Just so you know, Ozzy is in the movie for about ten seconds. He plays a TV evangelist type, denouncing metal. It's funny to me that Ozzy and Gene Simmons are on the cover of this movie when they are barely in it. But oh well, its a good movie, and it is a must own if you are a metalhead.

Thrash til Death!