I remember watching the original Sabrina with Audrey Hepburn and loving it, so when this newer version was on the TV, I watched it and loved it as well. Unlike some, who either liked the older or the newer version of it, I'd have to say that I liked both equally. Yes, they each have their own negative/positive moments (ie: the comment where Hepburn's "grown up" Sabrina was more childish acting, whereas Ormond's was more adult-like and sophisticated) I do have to agree with. HOWEVER, it is the storyline itself that captured my interest from the start, and I belive that both actresses played the role convincingly.

Possible SPOILER alert:
In my own opinion, Sabrina doesn't entirely "grow up" after she leaves for Paris, since one of the reasons for her going is to get away from David, the womanizing younger brother of the millionaire family her father chauffeurs. As a child/teenager, she is (pretty much) obsessed with him, while he doesn't even see her as anything but the chauffeur's daughter. But when she is in Paris, she cant seem to forget him, while he is now finally planning to settle down and marry. When she returns home, she is a very beautiful woman, with the touch of Paris elegance, and yet she is clearly not over David. He has now noticed her as a woman and is paying her the attention she's always wanted him to.

David's older brother, Linus, always looking out for the family business and money, is none too pleased with the attention David is now showing Sabrina, because David's fiancee is the daughter of their biggest business client, and one mis-step could put a halt to the contract. Therefore, Linus decides to step in and distract Sabrina from David before things go too far and ruin the merger. Long story short, they both unintentionally fall in love with each other. I think after spending time with Linus, and actually BEING in love rather than infatuated, NOW she is grown up. Which things matter more than just a silly girlhood crush. Only, Linus has always had the business-side at the forefront, and knows he may have to break her heart. Ah, the decisions he must face! What's more important, Money or love? Which does he choose?

I love this movie and I just *had* to buy it...