Season One of ANGEL ends with Wolfram & Hart, the evil lawfirm who seem to have become Angel Investigations' archenemy, resurrecting Angel's sire, Darla, whom Angel staked in the first season of ANGEL's parent-series, BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER. So the second season of ANGEL starts off with the slow, moral decline of our hero as he learns of her return and reacts to her presence. 
The second season of ANGEL is really the season when this series began to break free from BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, and it really does wonders for the show. By developing distinct storylines that have little or no dependence on stories from the earlier show, ANGEL becomes strong on its own. There is only one official BUFFY-ANGEL crossover episode during Season Two, and it really only features a BUFFY castmember in flashback. My biggest criticism would be that the season doesn't really seem to find its strength until the latter half, but it's still a fun ride getting there - much better than the first season, no matter which half you watch.
In Season Two, Charles Gunn, the ghetto-raised moster fighter we met at the end of Season One, becomes a full-time cast member bringing with him all new stories. We meet The Host (aka Krevlornswath of the Deathwok Clan or "Lorne") whose home dimension plays a significant part later in the season. Fred (Amy Acker), a future regular castmember, makes her first appearance as a crazy slave-girl on the run. We get to see old characters take on new dimensions. Cordelia eases into her role as Angel Investigations employee and "vision girl" and begins to shed her shallow BUFFY persona. Wesley shows that he has what it takes to be a leader and not just the comical sidekick. Most of all, Angel takes a walk down a very dark path only to come out on a much brighter side. (It really is great to see David Boreanaz playing the dark side of Angel without having to go to Angelus lengths to do so.)
With this increasingly strong show, fans can finally feel free to enjoy ANGEL as a separate series from BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER.