Forget Bush and Gore! The more interesting race for the presidency took place in "Primary Colors," an all-around outstanding movie which sank into obscurity, unfortunately, thanks to the Lewinsky scandal. Yes, it's loosely based on the Clintons, but if you put that aside and just focus on the movie in its own right, it's not as hard of a pill to swallow.
To start, seasoned vets Nichols and May provide sharp direction and writing, respectively. Even though this movie is about politics (which, as all of us now know, can get pretty gruesome), they make it interesting and intriguing by going behind the scenes, showing the feelings and emotions of the people involved in a presidential campaign, feelings and emotions that don't come through in press conferences and interviews.
The vision of Nichols and May is turned into fine art by a superb cast. Travolta is surprisingly charismatic, and Emma Thompson deserves much more praise than she has received as his patient but driven wife. Billy Bob Thornton gives a hilarious supporting performance, and Larry Hagman also does a great job as Travolta's opponent who's unwillingly thrust into the spotlight (Rob Reiner also has a humerous cameo as the host of ... call-in radio show in Florida).
But the two stars that outshine the rest are Adrian Lester and Kathy Bates. Lester is absolute dynamite as the campaign manager who yearns for "the real thing," a candidate who actually practices what he preaches. His performance is dramatic and heartfelt. As great as his performance is, Bates is the unsung hero of the movie, and without question, deserved to win Best Supporting Actress (she was robbed by Judi Dench and her 5-minutes-of-fame in "Shakespeare in Love"). She is outrageously funny at times and humble and vulnerable at others, but always comes through with an endearing sincerity.
So, if you want to see an all-around great movie or, more specifically, if you've become disillusioned by the political process and the (so-called) leaders it has produced, there has never been a better time to watch "Primary Colors."