Funny, how could this movie be funny?

I had bought it because I am a Phantom of the Opera completionist.  I need to have everything Phantom, sadly, because I am a Phan.  I had bought this movie last year, though many people had said it was simply not worth it.  I knew only two stars in this movie, Molly Shannon (SNL) and Robert Engulund (Freddy Krugger).  So it was a joy when I found this at a warehouse DVD/Movie store, so I invited one of my friends over to watch this with me.

Oh... my God!  I had never found myself so disgusted and humored by this retelling!  So I have dubbed this movie my guilty pleasure of sorts.

We have Christine Day, an aspiring girl who wishes to get her role as a "big star" in a new musical.  Upon a visit to her friend's book-retail shop, she is shown an opera called "Don Juan Triumphant".  The composer's name is Erik, and it's frighteningly written in blood--she doesn't know that, however.  Until when she is singing it softly, does she discover that blood oozes out from the pages onto her hands.  And the next moment, it's no longer there.

And when she sings it at the tryouts for this "new musical", a prop falls from overhead, crashes into the mirror behind her, transporting her into the past--late 1800's, past.

And then we got the Phantom, who is played by Mr. Freddy Krugger himself.  What was seriously on the "gross" factor, was the "mask" he wore.  He wore no mask as in the different retellings, but uses the ol' Hannibal Lector trick.  Seawing pieces of his skin on his face, then covering it up with make-up.  Giving him a look somewhat of a cross between Gerard Butler's makeup and over-packed Stage-Makeup.  And he went around, in the open--some of the time--and kills people in the most nastiest of ways.  Joseph Buquet, however, was hung upside down in the fly-space, then dropped, then pulled up and had a knife dragged from his navel to his nose.  Honestly, it's Phantom all right, but terribly and horribly off his rocker.

The story of the Phantom's deformity has changed, he recieves his ugliness by selling his soul to the devil.  With his burning passion for becoming disfigured, he uses his musical genius and influences the Christine Day of the past/future with it.  One of the most beautiful scenes, that is a mixture of Leroux and lovely cinematography is the visit to the graveyard.  Of course, there is a Raoul, only he is called Charles.  The Phantom appears to Christine with a violin, playing away at it, giving Christine the impression it IS her father.

There are also some really funky scenes in the movie, too.  As in after the Masquerade/Red Death scene, he throws Christine down on his bed, jumps up and down on her--grinding her.  It's so bizzare and funny, you have to laugh.  And before that, let's not forget the famous prositute scene where he says in her ear, "tonight, you are Christine..." and he does her.  It's clearly something you could have seen Erik doing, only if he was that desperate.

I am not, however, ruining the ending for you.  That is something you will have to watch for yourself.  It's clearly one of those, "what the holy..." kind of reactions though.  But you knew it was coming, since Freddy Krugger always comes back.  But I will say that she comes back to the present, though.

In all, besides for the graphic killings, the explicit scenes, it's not that bad.  It's a guilty pleasure, if you are looking for a real "slasher" Phantom story, this one is right up your alley.  Though rent it first from your local video store, your decision on whether to buy it can be made like so.  I don't regret buying it, however.  :)