A lot of people are going to complain about this workout because it is intense. But I enjoy doing it daily because the instructor breaks it down for you into sections and little do you realize a while later that you have done a forty minute workout! The work out is pretty intense, but the instructor makes it clear that you don't have to go her speed when doing the moves. I certainly didnt! And then there are complaints that she doesn't explain how to do the moves very well, but in my opinion: When you've watched this over and over again you don't really want her to be explaining the moves, you want her to be moving through them. How difficult is it to rewind a little when you're starting off? I only gave it a four star because it is a pretty intense workout and for those of you who are feeling the pregnant fatigue, you will do this a few times and then give up on it. It would be better for those kinds of pregnant women to stick to something slower and simpler like pregnant yoga. But for those of you who can handle a lot of movement (and believe me, you are going to want to ask your doctor if you can work out to this), as long as you make it a point to press the start button I promise you will have no trouble finishing.

Good stuff--the instructor tells you specifically when to drink water, the workout is in sections designed to get your body revved up for a workout and then a cooldown at the end so you aren't pressing the off button and still huffing and puffing. She reminds you to take it at your speed but also shows you how far you can go if you are willing. She adds a DVD for when you are no longer pregnant to target the specific muscles to get you back on track to a pre-baby body!

Bad stuff--the workout is intense and not for everyone. The moves aren't explained too well, so you will have to rewind a few times unless you can catch on while she does it.

You'll have to decide if this is for you, but I have to say I'm very very satisfied and have had no problem working out almost daily (and I am a very lazy person). As long as I have the ability to press the play button on my DVD, I never walk away without finishing it.