I was 15 years old, when this disgusting masterpiece hit video store shelves for the first time and only 3 years old, when the first Texas Chainsaw Massacre initially appeared on grimy, drive-in screens. That being said I was too young to see both of these on the big screen while huffing on a joint at the time each of them came out. (TCM 2 was rated NC-17 in 1986). However, I knew about both films from their reputations in my junior high school.

Being a fan of teenage slasher flicks like John Carpenter's Halloween, Freddy Krueger, Return of the Living Dead, the Reanimator and Friday the 13th, being obsessed with THE HARDCORE of the hardcore gore/horror films - TCM & TCM2 - was almost a compulsion. I had to see the damn things, even though the idea of seeing both scared the hell out of me. Just seeing scenes of the original TCM in the movie Terror in the Aisles was too much of a teaser to ignore.

Well, in about 1988 or 1989, I finally saw both films. I couldn't have been more right about the TCM2 being unbelievably sick and twisted. What it lacks in sheer horror from the original TCM (one of the scariest films ever made), TCM2 makes up in black humor and barf bag violence.

Dennis Hopper gives an inspired performance (right after appearing in the equally weird "Blue Velvet" and "River's Edge" films) as the cowboy sheriff hunting down the cannibal family, which has relocated from the outskirts of Austin to Dallas. Now known as the Saw-yers: one son resembles a mixture of Sonny Bono and Charles Manson with a taste for the flesh coming off the plate in his headwound, which he allegedly got in Vietnam; another is the inimitable Leatherface, who is suddenly "cured" of his sexual ambiguity from the first film and reborn in the '80s as a chainsaw-phallic weilding, heterosexual pervert; and of course it's hard to forget the dad, the hemmeroid-suffering chili cook strangely resembling the dad on the TV show "the Waltons."

You'll never look at DJ's, tobacco chewing, BBQ and chili contests, amusement parks, wood cutting, Texas radio or ZZ Top quite the same way again after viewing this chilling, hilarious romp. The yuppiecide at the beginning is particularly funny and grossly underrated as social satire.

Not to be missed. 5/5 stars