I didn't know what to expect when I sat down to see this film.  I'd heard weird things, seen Joaquin's "behavior" on David and everything else.  So, as I found myself mesmerized while watching this film, I could not believe what I was seeing.  This was an amazingly brave thing for Joaquin to do and I must say that he was absolutely brilliant.  Casey did a superb job of editing and filming and directing.  Both men were doing something no one else has done or probably ever will again.  If you can't look at it as performance art, then perhaps you do not really know good filmmaking when you see it.  As I said, it was funny in places, it was very sad, it was disgusting but it was all acting and it was brilliantly done on all fronts.  In my opinion, I think that people who are not accepting of it are uncomfortable with it because it is all laid out bare,  we can all see ourselves and what goes on in those parts of our psyche that we do not wish to ever let anyone else see.  We are all mad and depraved, in some sense, and we all have our vulnerabilities.  These we hide in our own little corners of our minds because we couldn't bear to be outcast or think of as crazy.  This is true and if anyone dismisses that notion, I suggest you sit alone with yourself and ask yourself what it is that you think about or do that is just too hard to share.  This film shares it all in a raw and sometimes uncomfortable manner but we must ask ourselves WHY we are uncomfortable...again, sit quietly and ask yourself that question.  I'd recommend this film to any serious film buff, not the ones who are superficially interested in films but can really see and hear what the character is about.  I'll buy the film and watch it many times.  And, I'm sure I will come away with something new each time.
Brilliantly done and kudos to Joaquin, one of our finest cinema stars today.  In any part he plays, he becomes that person.  It is not Joaquin Phoenix we are watching.  It is whomever he is playing the part of.  In each movie Julia Roberts does, she is playing a part but she is still always Julia Roberts.  She has to do that huge overworked smile and laugh no matter who she is in the film.  It's that way with most actors.  Leo DiCaprio becomes the person, not Leo.  Brad Pitt becomes the person, not Brad. More are like that, Eastwood, Natalie Portman, Kate Beckinsale, Scarlett Johannsen, Robert Duval, Robert DeNiro..those are actors who become the character and abandon their own personal persona, unlike for instance, Ms. Roberts.  In this case, as with all his films, this is a character and not merely Joaquin Phoenix.  That is the difference between a great actor and a good actor ie: Ms. Roberts or Ms. Aniston (don't get me wrong, I enjoy most of her movies) and the majority of actors today.
Don't  let this film pass you by if you truly do understand filmmaking and character portrayal.