In principal I'd have to say that gluing myself to a tv set to watch a cable series about a sociopath is probably not a good thing to do. Analyze this further and admittedly there is something more than a little perverse when I realize that I sort of like Dexter Morgan and don't find myself really being repelled by the antics of this serial killer. Regardless of all the logical reasons why I shouldn't find this so darn appealing, I am becoming adicted to Dexter and it has a lot to do with the writing, acting, and production values that make this one compelling series in the vein of dark comedy with a lot of drama thrown in.
I got into the Dexter phenomena relatively late during the fourth season and I purchased this box set purely out of curiosity. I have yet to watch any of the optional features. Trying to compare one season against another season of Dexter seems a little futile since I am enjoying my entire catch-up experience which is now into the third season. However, the reason I am reviewing Season I is because it is an essential component of the series and provides the foundation for the series and Dexter's oddball code of wiping out the truly evil as defined by his foster father Harry Morgan.
Season One is a mix of the progressive antics of the Ice Truck Killer and his game playing with Dexter who has apparently had an active career as a serial killer while his day job is as a blood splatter expert for the Metro Miami Police. Through 12 episodes, the author is introduced to Dexter via wry introspective monologues and continued flashbacks between Dexter and the now-deceased Harry. The viewer learns that sociopath Dexter observes a code to kill only the truly evil bad guys as a way to channel his homicidal tendencies. Harry, a seasoned cop, instructs the young Dexter in the ways of commiting the perfect murder without detection while ridding the world of the bad guys. This evolves into projecting Dexter as a modern day perverse Robin Hood who manages to function fairly well within a social framework despite not having much connection with real human emotion or conscience. As the first season progresses, slight changes in Dexter's personality are detected as the Ice Truck Killer continues with his murderous rampage.
With each episode, this season continues to build suspensefully until the taut conclusion. It introduces the viewer to the quirky and interesting supporting characters that make this series so rich in characterizations and provides Dexter with a protagonist in Detective Doakes. While all the seasons of Dexter are excellent, this one really defines the character and provides a basic foundation for the subsequent seasons.