One of the more underrated comedies. It was very popular in 1966, but kind of fell into relative obscurity. The wackiness of the ensemble is somewhat tamer than 1963's It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, for which it may have been inspired (and reigning in Jonathan Winters was no easy task).

1966 was one of the best years for movies, including A Man for All Seasons, The Sand Pebbles, Alfie, Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf, A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, Hawaii, The Battle for Algiers, Chimes At Midnight, The Good the Bad and the Ugly, The Professionals, The Blue Max, Harper and Fantastic Voyage.

This was Alan Arkin's first major part, for which he was nominated for the Best Actor Award, losing out to Paul Scofield in "A Man for All Seasons". Arkin was so nervous during filming that the director made him stand in orange crates to keep him from moving around during his scenes. As a Russian speaking limited English (and teaching English to some of his crew) was particularly amusing; and John Phillip Law as Russian Alexei Kolchin was a great little piece of acting. Brian Keith was his ol' dry self; and the little boy at the end was Johnny Whitaker who would go and star as Jody with Keith on A Family Affair.

The Russians Are Coming deserves a special place in the history of Cold War cinema - the first to portray the Russians in a sympathetic light. SPOILER ALERT!!!!:

During the screening in Moscow, when the movie came to the climactic stand-off that is broken by the little boy falling from the church, and as the Russians rush off their sub to assist in saving him, the audience began a rhythmic clapping and many burst into tears. Russian directors Sergei Bondarchuk and Grigory Chukhrai were on their feet clapping and crying. The film's director was sitting next to Vladimir Posner, the editor of Soviet Life, and asked "Why are they crying?" Posner replied, "Because they didn't make it first."

No matter how many times I see the movie, I always seem to get something in my eyes and tears well up a bit. Gotta get that condition fixed.