This movie is the anti-thesis of every mall cop movie out there. Consider the mall security guard normally presented in movies as a screwball character with an overactive sense of purpose and superiority who continuously gets into stupid, impossible situations but wins the girl and the respect of everyone in the end. Now take a step back and imagine what that person would be like in real life: that is the essence of Observe & Report. It zooms in on that maniacal mall guard and keeps him under the microscope for a full analysis.

This movie is dark. The main character is bi-polar and borderline insane. The movie follows him during an awkward time in his life when he decides to ditch his meds and is obviously suffering due to not being on those meds. This begins when his grasp on reality and his sense of esteem and power is questioned when he is consumed with powerlessness by a flasher at the mall, who cannot be caught, followed closely by multiple robberies. The scenes that follow show a person careening out of control toward what would likely be suicide but in the end, finds redemption and self-worth and re-examines his life and priorities. Seth Rogen is a modern day anti-hero in a mall security guard guise.

I love this movie and all of Jody Hill's work as a writer and/or director. I do not expect everyone to love this movie; especially if you're expecting Pineapple Express or even Fist Foot Way (prior Jody Hill film starring Danny McBride). This is Jody Hill and Seth Rogen pushing the envelope and turning those expectations on their head. Their are moments of absolute hilarity in this move but they are often the kind of jokes that make you cringe somewhere inside or squirm uncomfortably. This can turn people away; but me, I love those movies. They challenge the audience to look at those around them a bit more deeply and not take everything at face value.

This is by far Jody Hill and Seth Rogen's best work. If you are a fan of either one, you will not be disappointed.

Regarding the blu-ray: excellent; crisp, clear, sharp and just fantastically done. I would have loved to see more extras but such is life. Maybe once the star ratings on Amazon reach 4-5, they can push Warner Brothers to chuck out more dough to stuff more stuff on the disc.