With all due respect to Mr. Pregosin, I'd say that the revival series is definitely worth watching, and some fans, including myself, even prefer it to the original. I couldn't be more thrilled that it's finally being released on DVD!

I was 18 when the 1991 series began, and about 20 minutes into the 2-hour premiere episode, I was hooked. I recorded each episode, cut out every article and review I found in local newspapers, and started reading up on the original series. And when it looked like the 1991 version was near cancellation, I (as well as many others) sent letters to NBC asking for its renewal. Unfortunately, the letter writing campaign was unsuccessful, and the show was laid to rest far too soon.

The early death of the series didn't kill my interest in Dark Shadows however, and I ate up every little morsel of DS:91 memorabilia, such as the Innovation comic books, Jim Pierson's 'Dark Shadows Resurrected' book (which is still available through amazon.com, and would make a nice companion guide for anyone purchasing this DVD set), and various other items.

I've also since gone back and watched the two Dark Shadows theatrical films and many episodes of the 1960s daytime drama. I can easily see why the original version has sustained such a large cult following, and I enjoyed it immensely. However, I still prefer the revival series, which I realize turned off a number of the original fans, because it skipped over so many plot-points and consolidated several characters. In my opinion though, the faster pacing and more succinct storytelling was important in order to properly transition the stories to the once-weekly primetime format.

My mother had watched the original series and has told me how her and her sisters (and friends) would run home from school so they wouldn't miss it. Even she loved the 1991 version (especially Ben Cross).

I'd venture to say that the revival series is the best way for interested new viewers to dip their toes into the Dark Shadows saga, and hopefully they'll emerge with an interest in and appreciation for the original series, too, just as I did.