The Doctor is taking Sarah and, new companion, Harry on a joy flight in the TARDIS when they land on what seems to be an unoccupied space station. They are soon caught up in a race to save the surviving human race who are using this space station as a resting place for when the Solar Flare radiation on the Earth has dropped to liveable levels again. Something else has invaded this station causing the occupants to oversleep. The Wirrn are here to claim the sleeping vestiges of the human race as their dinner...
This is the 2nd story for the Tom Baker reign as Doctor Who and it seems he has settled into the role superbly. The story, acting, set design are all fantastic. That is, if you can accept the fact that green bubble wrap is about to take over the human race. Back in the 70's, the bubble wrap larvae of the Wirrn would have looked great as bubble wrap was a new thing, now it looks dated and cant be watch without a sly comment or a laugh. This does not detract from the great acting from the 3 regulars though.
The DVD transfer is excellent, picture quality is in full frame and is in great condition. Extras on the DVD are getter better with each one released. The Extras on the disc include:
New CGI Model Shots
You can now watch this classic with either it's original shakey model shots or you can watch it with the newly created CGI model shots of the Ark. It's great to see someone taking time to do this sort of stuff.
Original 16mm Model shots
Take after boring take of the original model shots of the ark turning, the Wirrn crawling over the Ark and the escape ship blasting off, great to see but very monotonous.
Commentary
An unmissable commentary by Tom Baker, Elisabeth Sladen and Philip Hinchcliffe. Some interesting tidbits are found through this plus Tom's enjoyment is fantastic.
Design Feature
An interview with designer Roger Murray-Leach
News Item
A rare interview with Tom Baker (although it was done when he was filming Revenge Of The Cybermen)
Unused title sequence (thank God they didn't use it)
Trailer - this trailer wouldn't make anyone watch this show.
TARDIS Cam - also on the BBC website - this teases us with showing what Doctor Who would look if it were still on.
3D Ark Scematic, Photo Gallery and a couple of Easter Eggs for you to find.
Overall an excellent DVD for an excellent episode. RECOMMENDED!!!