What can I say.  The Abyss is my favorite film by Jim cameron, and my second favorite Sci-fi film, right behind Blade Runner.  I first saw this film in the theater when it was released, and while I was blown away, I  exited the theater thinking...what the heck happened?  Several minutes of  extremely important footage were cut for the theatrical release, and has  been restored in the special edition director's cut on the DVD.  These  scenes are absolutely crucial to understanding this film, and I have never  been able to understand why they were cut in the first place.  Anyway, I  love this film so much because I believe it to be Cameron's most well  sculpted and powerful film to date.  Watching this movie gives you the  impression that everything that you are seeing is absolutely real.  It's a  definite case of " a place for everything and everything in it's  place".  The sets, equipment, underwater footage, and special effects  are the absolute best.  I have yet to see a film (besides Titanic), which  makes better use of computer generated images, and all of the effects still  look fresh, amazing, and realistic.  The very strong cast of not quite  superstars led by Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, and Michael Biehn  give amazingly strong, convincing performances as real, competent people  who are forced to deal with situations of unimaginable stress.  Very few  movies do I watch and find myself holding my breath during tense scenes.  This is one of those films.  
As far as the DVD goes, it seems to be the  same print as the one tranferred for the excellent laserdisc box set  special edition that was released some years ago.  The image is very clean,  presented in a wonderful 2.30:1 letterbox aspect ratio, and a pleasure to  watch.  It makes me wish I had a bigger TV.  The only annoyance that I  found from watching the film was the very noticeable layer change, but this  fortunately happens during a scene transition.  The sound is awesome even  in Dolby 2.0, and I can't wait to hear the 5.1 surround track.  The extras  are plentiful, and I have not had time to explore them all yet.  The only  really serious disappointment for me in this DVD package is that for some  unknown reason, they did not use the audio commentary that was recorded for  the laserdisc version, choosing instead to give the commentary through  subtitles.  While this is better than nothing, I find it extremely annoying  because when I listen to a commentary, more than half of the fun is hearing  the commentator's voice and listening the voice interaction if there is  more than one commentator.  Still, even this is not enough to spoil the  film's five star rating.  This is, quite simply put, an amazing DVD  presentation of one of the most superb films in recent history.