While I could tell you all about "A Bug's Life", in the case of a Special Edition it is probably better to talk about the features (since you should already have seen the movie before getting a special version of it).  I'll begin on disk 1. Well, there is the basic movie, a commentary track, an audio only track and a sountrack only track.  The basic movie is very well done, and maybe even better than the theatrical version because of the conversion process and sound quality.  Superb stuff, but its also available on the regular version so we'll move on.  The commentary track is very insightful and actually provides a lot of information about the process of making the movie.  Its very interesting to listen to and will keep you watching, unlike most commentary tracks where the speakers generally just drag on and on about how great the actors are or something similar without actually talking about the movie.  The soundtrack only section is pretty interesting, and it lets you hear the more subtle parts that you miss with FX and voice, but it gets pretty tiring.  The FX track, on the other hand, was absolutely riveting for some reason.  You would think a track with no voice and no music would be boring to all hell, but in fact it was incredibly entertaining to watch and it really lets you get a sense into the amount of effort they put into the sound.  Things you don't even notice or realize are happening in the background are made very clear on this track.  I would recommend this edition for anyone who is thinking about going into Sound FX later in life simply for this track.
 On to disk 2 now, which is pretty much all design sketches and production notes.  There are some really fascinating things on this disk as well.  They go through all the stages from beginning to end and you really get to see the story evolve from its original form (recognizable, but oh so different).  Also, the short feature on turning the storyboard art into 3d art was very interesting (especially if you want to go into graphics).
 In the end this is a DVD I think any A Bug's Life fan will love.  All the various options and ways to view the movie are excellent and will keep you entertained for hours while all the special features on disk 2 will make you appretiate the effort behind it all that much more.  Pick this one up.