Having a taste for offbeat movies, I really enjoyed Willard to a degree that was almost obsessive and included downloading that good old "Ben" single to my i pod and actually singing it aloud when I was home alone,(Ben the two of us need look no MOOOORE, we both found what we were loooking FOOOR...). Writing this now, I really hope the neighbors didn't hear that little performance, and if they did, maybe they thought I was singing the original Micheal Jackson version(yes, I was shocked Jackson was the original singer of Ben.)Personally, I very rarely watch movies or TV, and prefer to read books, so my obsession with Willard the movie was something rare for me.

Anyway, I think this is sort of a cultish movie, as I can see some people just thinking its too darn weird for their tastes. I couldn't have enjoyed it more though. Crispin Glover does an excellent job playing Willard, a young man who lives with his crazy mama and has a love for his rats, who just keeping on multiplying as rats will do. He can really take you through the range of emotions, but mostly I felt a strong sense of pity and oddly enough hope and a desire to see our dear Willard bring himself out of the shadows of his sad little life. It's weird to say that rats are some of the main characters in this odd little drama, but Socrates(a white rat), and a fat rat called Ben play main roles, fighting over Willard's attention. Who will win?

I don't want to give too much away, but the movie is creepy and intriguing. Willard is one of the best, strangest characters I've ever encountered, and I wanted at times just to give him a big hug. Poor man. He has so many problems, but is so likable in a way. In my mind, this movie is a classic, even if it might not appeal to everyone. I would highly suggest giving it a chance and seeing if maybe you get obsessed too!

OH, and by the way, there is a BOOK by STEPHEN GILBERT, for which the movie was actually based on, and that about knocked my socks off! Check it out, it's very good too and captures the drama and intrigue of our favorite ratman.