As far as I'm concerned you are just unhappy folks with nothing better to do but slam a movie. Write a critique, not a slam.  Sheesh, if it was that bad for you why even write about it? Sure it wasn't "perfect" but what movie is?  Just give some decent critque of the movie with some good and bad.  Why even see something and then go on and on about how much you hate it? Move on.  There surely has to be something out there you like. And quit dissing on Keanu.  If you think he can't act, then stop watching his movies if you will continuously be disappointed.  I just don't understand people running around trying to find something to bitch about.

But to just call something "stupid" and then go rambling on about how bad it was, why not instead ignore the movie and go and talk about some movies that you did like and recommend them?  I swear, such negativity.  I loved this movie and I've been waiting to order it. So, stupid or no, there are plenty of movies I haven't liked, but I don't go blasting them. ?? If it isn't constructive comments, but just out and out anger about a movie, seems to me there are bigger issues at hand. Anger management maybe needed for these types of individuals.

If you don't like it, fine, but for pete's sake, go take a happy pill and watch something you do like.

It's all good, dude.  There isn't a shortage of movies out there or anything.

:-)

To each his/her own. Constantine was a creative, well acted piece of entertainment that was refreshing to view in this era of slap-happy campy remakes. It was nicely done, a breath of fresh air.  Reeves and Weisz, as well as the entire cast and crew put their all into this and for it to just be slammed out of hateful spiteful comments, that's just unecessary. I say again, go find something you do like, or be more respectful in criticizing something you don't. These whole movie review things have turned into slam fests and attacks on the creators behind the movie and I don't think that is entirely fair.  It takes much work and effort to put a movie together.  I've seen some movies I have absolutely hated but I don't go slamming everyone involved in them because you know, I couldn't do any better. Just be fair, sheesh. No movie is perfect, but just because there is so much negativity here lately, I'm five starring it.

Peace out