Finally, the complete second season.  Columbia House skipped a couple Season 2 episodes when they were issuing the VHS tapes (and didn't complete releasing Season 3).  The episodes look great.  They are assuredly better quality than what you saw in syndication back in the 80's.  If you are a completist who also has the VHS tapes, either your own or Columbia House, don't necessarily get rid of them.

The first episode, "The Return Of Wonder Woman", wasn't shown in my markets during syndication.  It runs 90 mins & is regarded as the CBS pilot.  Several key elements to the new direction of the series are contained here.  I used to see the ABC "tv movie" (later regarded as the original pilot) as a weekend film in syndication & I am told the CBS "movie" was run in segments in other markets as an episode.

Surprisingly, they fixed the audio on "The Man Who Made Volcanoes", Episode 9.  There used to be a glitch at the beginning of the second segment where Diana spins, you'd hear the sound effect before she spun then again as she spun.  You don't hear that glitch anymore.  This episode guest stars Roddy McDowall as the villian, he makes a sly reference to the "Batman" series as he addresses one of his cohorts in the intro.

This set includes one of the strongest episodes in the entire series, a two-parter called "Mind Stealers From Outer Space".  Good story line & somewhat dramatic, note that Lynda is still wearing the black wig while "Wonder Woman" in part one, then in part two they went more natural when she was WW.  There is a fight at the end of part two where WW gets hit that still kinda' bothers me.  And there is a point where WW addresses the UN, but she isn't wearing her cape.  It would have been a great visual to see her in full costume for this sequence.  I also think they intended for "Andros" to be the same Andros from Season 1, but somewhere mid-stream decided to make him the son of Andros perhaps due to the obvious age difference between the two actors used for the character.  Some confusing dialogue that wasn't totally cleaned up post-production, but they still managed to cover it.  Again, one of the episodes in the series that is very solid.

This set also includes "The Pied Piper", one of the weaker episodes in the series (it was skipped by Columbia House).  The story line is good, but there wasn't much development of the characters or elements.  BUT, the saving grace is two of the series' more unique "transformation" sequences.  First, Diana spins into WW in order to gain access to Hamlin Rule's house where he is auditioning girls for his show.  She is in full costume with the cape for this.  Later, Diana is trapped in a spinning chair & transforms into WW.

"I Do I Do", episode 8, is important as several changes in the series take place.  First, they introduce Diana's ponytail hairstyle which will be used for most of the remainder of the series.  The running sequence towards the end of this episode is used in the title theme for the remainder of the series as well, beginning with episode 9 they use a montage of clips rather than the animated titles.  The setting at IADC where they are briefed by the President is also dropped after episode 8.

The first 10 episodes had animated "stars" leading into & out of commercial breaks.  Like SciFi Channel's edits, they left the stars going into breaks, but eliminated them coming out of breaks (but you still hear the audio where they were).  No idea why.  The first 8 episodes also had preview intros before the title theme, these were nixed as well.  They did appear on the VHS editions.

The packaging is pretty cool, they used my fave CBS publicity shot on the front of the slip cover.  The DVD packaging itself is a tad flimsy, but creative.  The disc menus are very themed towards the show, good job there.

Overall, I am very pleased & anxiously awaiting Season 3.