I've been lucky enough to see Mayer in concert.  Add to that a couple appearances on Austin City Limits and two at Eric Clapton's Crossroads Festivals.  For a little variety, throw in an appearance with Brad Paisley on CMT's Crossroads.

Mayer never disappoints and never ceases to surprise.  It would be easy to dismiss him as a purveyor of commercial accoustic romantic ballads if the only only material one ever heard were from Room for Squares.  In fairness a couple of those tracks were overplayed to the point of causing an allergic reaction.

Taking in his live appearances and the various concert shows one soon realizes that Mayer is a virtuoso.  The only personal analogy that I can make is Winton Marsalis.  The complete command of technical capability is eclipsed only by an instinctive 'feel' that transcends the notes on a page.

Mayer was wonderful with Double Trouble.  His Austin City Limits cover of Empty Arms was a worthy tribute to Steve Ray.  His performance with Buddy Guy was probably the surest sign I have ever seen that race no longer has a place in sports, politics or even music.  Was that really a kid from Connecticut outdueling the legendary bluesman?

Where The Light Is delivers.  Production quality is good, the play list is expansive and extends well beyond the customary radio roster.

The cover of Tom Petty's Free Fallin' made the DVD for me.  It's a simple three chord song.  I was just stunned that Mayer could develop a different and interesting arrangement, play it so perfecftly and exhibit such enthusiasm doing it.

Don't wait.  Idolize this guy now.  Most of the artistic geniuses labor in relative anonymity until way past their prime.  This guy is the read deal and this DVD shows him in his element.

As evidence of my objectivity, I have to remark that the vocal on Belief is a little flat.  It's one of my favorite songs and the version on the most recent Crossroads disk is much better.  It's a little like a bad hair day for Heather Locklear.  Hard to imagine throwing her out for a momentary lapse!

Enjoy