The only thing nearly as old as anti-semitism is anti-catholicsm - though of late it's far more politically correct to be anti-catholic. Not quite as popular as it was to be anti-semitic before the Holocaust, but nearly so. This pseudo-documentary didn't even mention the 50,000 catholic priests and 3,000,000 Polish Catholics who were executed by the Nazis - anybody who spoke out against their policies was exterminated - nor the extremely profitable enterprise of death, finely managed by the Nazi accounting team (with the help of IBM, more on that below). Nor did it spend much time on Constantine either (5 minutes tops).

Movie was mostly a yawner - no surprises, the same old poorly constructed, loose connections, and poor science (looking for information that supports your theory, while discarding everything else). While not falling asleep I was actually laughing - though there were a few nice jabs at the evangelists that made it watchable, and great footage of the Jewish ghetto-turned-prime-real estate in Rome. The most amusing part was the "biblical scholar" stating Jesus couldn't have been crucified. The Romans crucified virtually anything that wasn't already nailed down to something else. He should've discussed the history of Roman Sacrifice - but that would've derailed his argument. Instead he painted the Romans as peaceful law-abiding citizens, amicably co-existing with equal populations of Jews and Christians until Constantine, and not as the blood hungry fascists history shows us to have persecuted both Jews and Christians relentlessly. I was rolling on the floor at this point. The only reason Christians outnumbered the Jews after his proclamation of Christianity being the official state religion, is all those Roman Fascists converted to Christianity on the spot, rather than ending up on that cross themselves. That part of the movie was ironic satire at its worst.

But back to the brunt of the movie's allegations: there is no question that the pope could have done more to save Jews - albeit there was a massacre of Catholics taking place, and official rebellion might have made it worse (but aren't the truly religious supposed to martyr themselves) - but what about the US Government (who ignored every report of it, doing nothing at all - not even entering the war until Pearl Harbor), IBM (who made money selling the Nazis card punch readers to make the death camps more efficient), and the German people themselves, who say they just did their jobs as law-abiding German citizens. As long as we're spreading blame... how come the movie left all of this out? Can you say AGENDA? Had the US Government acted, it would have emboldened many more people to stand up to the Nazis (and ironically virtually all that did oppose were themselves Catholic). Had the German people refused... well, history would be quite different today. But he lays all the blame on the Gospel of John and the Catholic Church.

I was surprised he didn't just come out of the closet and grind his axe over what he's really upset about - the banning of Gays from the Catholic Priesthood. Why didn't he just interview Elton John, and go forward on the assumption that Jesus was a persecuted Gay male, and Christianity/Catholicism is anti-Semitic because of its own homophobia? Hey, but that would have made me up this rating to at least two stars for getting closer to the real point, since this was about the author, and not about Constantine at all. And that's the brunt of my disappointment; this film had nothing to do with Constantine, and everything to do with James Carroll and his own ideologues.

Ultimately, this film was just another wasted evening.