A unique masterpiece, which infuses ingenious camera techniques, solid acting, and a well-adapted script.  Stars Kate Winslet and Melanie Lynskey in their film debuts.  Both show promise and this film is more Lynskey's than Winslet's, but Lynskey has yet to become a household name (she will sooner or later).  This film is based on the most celebrated trial in placid New Zealand, the Parker-Hulme case, which concerned the girls' murder of one of their mothers in the 1950's. What's intriguing about it is that one of the girls (Hulme) turns out to be the celebrated mystery writer, Anne Perry. 
Winslet plays Juliet Hulme, an English debutante who moves to Christchurch, New Zealand when her father becomes the Rector of the town's college.  As a child she suffered from tuberculosis and like the stereotypical upper-crust English, her parents neglected her by abandoning her in the Caribbean.  She strikes up a friendship with the class wallflower, Pauline Parker, a girl of a lower socio-economic background, who also suffered from a childhood illness and felt outcast.  They soon become best friends and pursue their interests in writing stories and listening to opera to escape their mundane surroundings.  Scarily, their imagination takes over and they lose touch with reality.  Their emotional dependence on each other frightens their parents, who fear their daughters have developed homosexual feelings for each other.  As a solution, they attempt to separate the girls.  Juliet is to live in South Africa with her relatives and Pauline is not granted a passport.  The girls view Pauline's mother (Sarah Peirse) as the main obstacle of staying together.  They hatch a plan to kill her and make it look like an accident.  
The director, Peter Jackson, presents the story from the girls' perspective.  The viewer is sucked into their visually rich fantasy-world, and one sympathizes with their plight.  One understands the girls' disillusionment with their parents, when Juliet discovers her mother (Diana Kent) is having an affair with a married man.  Pauline's parents, it is discovered during the trial, were never married.  In fact, her father was still legally married to his first wife.  Jackson, who understandably was the perfect director to direct Lord of the Rings, utilizes clay animation, timely editing and angular use of the camera.  And most important of all is the script, based mostly on Pauline Parker's diaries written during the two year period leading up to the horrifying crime.  The result is the most original film in decades.
FYI, the girls were released when they turned 21 years old on condition that they never meet.  Perry, who took her stepfather's surname, her stepfather being the man her mother was having an affair with, currently resides in Scotland.  Surprisingly and coincidentally, so does Parker, although they have yet to meet again.  They both are doing what they dreamed of when they met-Perry writing books and Parker riding horses (she runs a horseback riding academy).  Perry, who lived in the US for a number is years, is a devout Mormon and Parker is a devout Catholic.  They both eschewed religion as teenagers.