The Great Mouse Detective -- Disney's adaptation of Eve Titus's book Basil of Baker Street -- is by far the best "portrayal" of Sherlock Holmes, both characters and adventures, for kids, teens, or adults...with the possible exception of Without a Clue starring  Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley [PG]. Both movies are true Holmes despite obvious differences, such as being a mouse.

The Great Mouse Detective can be appreciated on many levels.  It's great fun for kids, even if they haven't read, or heard, Eve Titus's Basil of Baker Street books. Basil is, of course, THE mouse counterpart to that greatest of detectives Sherlock Holmes. You could say he is Holmes' "under study" for the animal world, living literally "under" Holmes' residence in Baker Street.  The Great Mouse Detective is a superb introduction to Sherlock Holmes, but it doesn't take knowledge of Holmes to enjoy it immensely.

For an older audience, there is subtle humor that you miss as a kid, but is hilarious. The movie's a must for those who've enjoyed the great conglomerate, "allusive" humor in Shanghai Knights, such as Jackie Chan balancing and fighting using an umbrella to the title music of "Singing in the Rain."  Without seeing The Great Mouse Detective, no viewer can fully appreciate the humor of the "fight in Big Ben" scene in Shanghai Knights and the plunge from the face of the clock to the ground far below.

The fall to their "deaths" of arch villain and hero is a great example of another level at which The Great Mouse Detective can be appreciated. It's is "straight out of Holmes." No one well-read in Doyle's Adventures can fail to recognize the moment where Doyle "kills" Holmes off (or that he brings him back by popular demand). Basil has all Holmes' mannerisms, and the arch villain Ratigan is hyper-Moriarty. All the principle characters are there, and "extras" could be found in any number of the Adventures of Sherlock Holmes.

So why is the movie not more widely known?  Perhaps for lack of expert hype and marketing. It's a movie that deserves more, unlike other recent Disney offerings. There seems to be no other reason. Disney, now famed for sequels, could do that too, if they brought back their artists (computers just can't get the same quality).  After all, there are other Basil of Baker street stories.  To match the humor and marvelous Holmes qualities of The Great Mouse Detective, however, would be a difficult task indeed!  Holmes is a genius, and it took genius to make The Great Mouse Detective the great movie it is.