HP & the Half-Blood Prince

This was one of my favorite books in the series and so I especially looked forward to the movie.  BIG DISAPPOINTMENT!  AAUUUGHH!

I waited for YEARS (!) and FIVE books anticipating the day when the Dursleys would receive their long-deserved comeuppance from Dumbledore for their poor treatment of Harry...  And WHAT HAPPENED?!

They actually FILMED the scene, and then decided (after I had anticipated it for YEARS ) that the audience didn't care enough about the books as written  to sit through such a LONG scene, and they cut it, only to replace it with an equally long  scene involving a presumptuous teenaged tart in a greasy-spoon diner: Harry hacks up a foreshortened verbal ejaculation, and she instantly presumes he was going to ask her out?!  Please...! What has been established about his character to make it plausible that he would entertain such an unlikely interest?

And the meeting between the Minister of Magic and the Muggle Minister...? "(Cough, cough...) AHEM! "Where did THAT go?!  It was ONLY one of the best, FAR ABOVE & BEYOND, most enjoyable and exquisitely disturbing and creepy...,  of all the scenes in all the books so far. So..., WHERE THE HELL DID IT GO?!

Which EXCESSIVELY INFLUENTIAL PERSON decided that this savory and delicious scene was not worth taking the time to watch?  And WHY do they still have a job?!

But I must say the most offensive change made from the book to the movie involved a violation of HP's character. In the book, HP used the potions book of the Half-Blood Prince to his advantage (no harm there), until he used a spell to harm another student in self-defense. Even though he used the spell innocently in self-defense, author Rowling treated it as an act of evil (with which I disagree).  But the movie takes a turn for the worse:  Harry is so uncertain of his right to self-defense in a threatening situation that he allows Ginny Weasley (portrayed most unattractively by Bonnie Wright) to substitute for his inner moral conscience, and then because he is such a weakly indecisive and spineless "hero..." She must take the spellbook from his hands and hide it while his eyes are closed!  This scene, by itself, suggests that Harry Potter is a moral ignoramus and coward.

The spellbook represents Knowledge, which in itself is neither good nor evil, but only as it is applied. So this scene implies that Harry is afraid of knowledge because he does not have the Wisdom and Strength of character to apply it ethically.  However I must admit that this flaw of character originates with the author Rowling, and is only amplified in the movie.

Also, Slughorn was miscast. (An actor  in Deathly Hallows Pt 1 seemed better for the part of Slughorn, but must have been too late).  Slughorn bursting from the armchair was painfully embarrassing!  Not convincing at all!  They should have at least digitized the effect! Barbara Eden smoking out of her bottle was MORE CONVINCING!..., and THAT was 4.5 DECADES ago!  You HAVEN'T come a long way, Baby..., er, Dude!!

It boggles my mind that with so much MONEY and so much TIME, such a POOR job was accomplished!

On the OTHER hand, if you've NEVER READ THE BOOKS, this movie MIGHT be thoroughly enjoyable!