While I agree with other 4- and 5-star reviewers that the plot, acting and video quality of Breakheart Pass is very good, this review is from a railfan's viewpoint regarding the accuracy and value of the railroad footage. When Trains Magazine publishes a special edition in January, 2010, naming its choice of the 100 all-time best train movies, I would expect Breakheart Pass to rank near the top. The exterior photography is excellent. The train trip occupies 100% of the story, from the opening to the closing scene. More than 90% of the scenes that do not show the exterior of the train take place inside the train.

Weaknesses: There is only one train involved. Although the trip supposedly takes two days, no other trains are met or passed. Only once in the plot does the train stop to take on water and only one other time does the steam locomotive require a fuel stop (for wood). The year in which the action takes place is not specified, but the train equipment appears too modern (early 20th Century rather than late 19th Century) for a wood-burning locomotive to be appropriate. The brown and tan paint on the locomotive seems out of place, but only during the opening station stop at Myrtle is this a distraction. Apparently the train is expected to run through wilderness for two days without an engine crew change. It does stop overnight so that the engineer can sleep for "not more than six hours". It is not realistic to imagine a railroad so isolated that it has no support facilities.

Filmed on the Camas Prairie Railroad southeast of Lewiston, Idaho, the movie railroad is called the Wasatch & Nevada R.R. and although not identified, the story presumably takes place in Utah. As such, mountain scenes perhaps should have more Aspen and fewer evergreen trees.

Based on the percentage of train footage, Breakheart Pass ranks favorably with the likes of Emperor of the North, The Train, El Ultimo Tren, The Titfield Thunderbolt and Tough Guys for railroad content. Plus it is packaged around a good "who done it" mystery yarn.