Based on the true Jesse James Hollywood story, writer/director Nick Cassavetes' "Alpha Dog" is at least as good as most true crime books in convincingly portraying the triggers that led to the central crime and recreating the atmosphere surrounding events.

  In this case, the crime is the real-life spontaneous kidnapping of a 15-year-old boy over a drug debt, which spirals further out of control, with ruinous consequences for most of those involved.

  Justin Timberlake, playing Franki, Anton Yelchin, as Zack, and Shawn Hatosy, as Elvis, give the movie's strongest performances. For those who are critical of Sharon Stone because they find her implausible, there are such mothers out there, and they carry some of the responsibility for their children's failures, and that's the point.

  As a published true crime author, I found "Alpha Dog" extremely successful in blaming horrible parenting and in showing how many people can witness a tragedy in progress without attempting to do anything to stop it. These are facts of real life that happen repeatedly in real life crimes.

  The twist in "Alpha Dog" is that when someone actually does half-heartedly try to get help, the parents decline to give it. This left me wondering if anyone would have actually helped in other cases where teens have been criticised for failing to do anything to stop a heinous crime.

  Like many movies, "Alpha Dog" makes rampant drug use, alcohol abuse and sex for its own sake look like fun. It would be nice to see more movies evoke the less pleasant consequences of these choices. It would be nice to see these choices romanticized less often, or at least shown more realistically.

  The movie is heavy-handed in places and not all of the acting is especially good but it succeeds in portraying a completely pointless crime and all of the listless, directionless, undisciplined, blind lives surrounding it.

  "Alpha Dog" is heavy on drug use, profanity, violence, sex and nudity -- but, then again, so were the real life events on which it is based.

  Once again, it seems that some reviewers slam the movie because they are offended by what it portrays. What it portrays is offensive, no question -- but that's the point. If you don't want to know about the ugliness that sets people up to get more easily sucked into murder than they would have ever predicted, then don't watch this movie or others from the genre.