They almost had me fooled. In the beginning, and rightfully so, I thought that it was one of those feel-good flicks, where some rich and powerful man (or a woman) realizes that money is not everything in life, and as a result ends up with new family, friends, religion, wisdom, and ... EVEN MORE MONEY! And things seemed to be going exactly that way. The protagonist lost his privileges, became a family man, a regular guy, secured personal happiness, and was getting back to the old Wall Street outfit (after talking gibberish to his former boss - a stalwart of high finance, who suddenly turned up stranded in the middle of New Jersey with a flat tire in his Rolls Royce). But when that storyline fell apart, I started to believe that was dealing with something deeper and more original than a mere slice of bourgeoisie propaganda. I must admit that remained under such impression until the very end of the film, and only when the movie ended, said to myself: "Wait a minute! The man's still got everything he had before, plus a woman of his dream, but this time she is making much more money and will not insist on him giving up a good job. Of course, they do not have those children and lost 13 years of living together, but they are still young and with any luck will have enough resources to produce offsprings and add the lost years to the end of their lives. Possibly, they could decide to move to New Jersey and live in a regular suburban house, but what would they do with all that extra cash? So, what was the lesson? Those rich guys always win!"

This film is well made, by the people who know their trade, and can be wholeheartedly recommended to anyone who has nothing better to do than to watch it. I took away one star for the trivial and insincere morale, and another one for the ending. Why did they show our couple sitting together, drinking coffee? The woman already said "OK", and that should have been the end of it! Cage delivers his usual generic performance, and Leoni overdoes luminosity of her character, but Don Cheadle is perfect, and I wish there was more of him in the script (if I ever wanted to watch this movie again).