On  the evening of December 6, 1941 a flight of B-17Cs left the west coast of the United States bound for Hickam Field, Honolulu, Hawaii.  This was a reposition of equipment in a peace-time world where there was no threat to our forces and these aircraft were unarmed.  Early the next morning this unarmed flight greeted the dawn of a new world at war as they arrived at their destination.  A destination under surprise attack by the Imperial forces of Japan.

In 1943 Howard Hawks released a film titled "Air Force" to an American public still reeling from the events of December 7.  The story was that of the "Mary Ann" and her crew; one of the B-17Cs that stumbled into war that fateful morning.  The film, starring Gig young, Arthur Kennedy, George Tobias, Harry Carey and John Garfield, was destined to become one of the best "propaganda" films of the war.

For those of us that love anything to do with aviation, Air Force was not only a thrilling adventure but an opportunity to see intimate details of a B-17C.  Of the 12,000+ B-17s produced the C model was rare and inferior to the models that followed.  The B-17C was not well armed, not the best high altitude bombing platform, and in very short supply, but it was all we had to enter a new war.  Though, however inferior our aircraft were in those first months of war, and make no mistake they were, it was the incredible spirit of those young men at the controls, the guns, and the bombsites that proved the enemy was no match for our forces.
There has been question as to whether the Mary Ann was actually a B-17 model C or D.  In reality both models where virtually identical with the D having the addition of engine cowling flaps and an update electrical system.  However, in the movie still above, it is clear that the Mary Ann does not have the D model's cowl flaps.  She is a B-17C.

Most of the C models were lend-leased to Great Britain as the Fortress I, while the Ds were divided between the US Army and Britain (Fortress II).  The Brits weren't very happy with the Fortress I so they weren't too eager to get the Fortress II (B-17D).  The Mary Ann was a real AAF B-17 used to make the movie.  After filming she was assigned to a training squadron in Florida but eventually wound up back at war in Europe.  In 1944 the Mary Ann crashed in France.

Regarding the film, it is great! It has everything a movie should have: excitement, danger, and heroes.....There were many, many heroes during WWII. John Garfield is superb. Also Harry Carey, Gig Young and all the rest. I know you will enjoy it if you purchase it....it's A+ as far as I'm concerned!