Seasons 1 of Prison Break was some of the best television ever in my opinion, and season 2 was a very worthy followup. They had that combination of a great premise, fantastic writing, top notch performances. That meant that you got to know and CARE what happens to these characters. Each was developed to the point where you either loved or hated them, knew their back stories and what circumstances got them to the situation they now find themselves. By the end of Season 2, most of these story arcs were complete. So what to do?
I know!  Let's throw Michael into a Panamanian prison that makes Fox River look like day care. Let all hell break loose, and try and to recapture the suspense of season 1! If only...

In this season, gone is the gradual unfolding of Michael's intricate plan. He's thinking and reacting on the fly in season 3. Most of the characters of season 1 and 2 are free, dead or just plain absent. One of the central characters is completely absent, unceremoniously murdered off-screen, then mourned for the rest of the season. Only later did we find out that this was a decision by network execs, not a creative one.

And what of the characters that are present, namely Michael's fellow inmates? Except for Mahone and T-Bag, most of them feel like filler. I don't want to sound harsh, but the rest seem like cardboard cutouts for Michael and Lincoln to react to. You never find out nor care who they are. There's even a young "Tweener" substitute thrown in just for good measure.
To be fair, this was only half a season because of the writer's strike of 2007-2008. Perhaps the characters would have been fleshed out better, but I could not help but get the sense that the writing just wasn't in the same league as that in seasons 1-2.

In my opinion, one of the most brilliant concepts in Season 1-2 was Michael's tattoo. This was the roadmap of the whole adventure and, to us, it was a complete mystery. A message like "Allen Schweitzer", "Ripe Chance Woods", or a picture of Christ in a rose would mean nothing to us at the start of an episode, only to be revealed to us during the episode. There's none of that in Season 3 since the escape plan is all done "on the fly". There's no mysterious plan to be revealed, only "How do we get out of this episode without the inmates, Gretchin, or The Company killing us all?" episodes.

So instead of following a brilliant plan from start to finish, we're watching an action show that seems to be in a holding pattern waiting for the inevitable result at the finale. This is Prison Break right? Not Prison Stay. So yeah, we know they're going to make it out. But the pleasure is supposed to be in the journey, not the destination.

At the time I write this review, we are 2 episodes into Season 4. Just from the events of these 2 episodes, I think it's safe to say that most if not all of season 3 could have been skipped altogether and covered before the credits. The central goal of season 3 was to break Whistler out of Sona, within 15min of season 4 he's gone. Also, because of an outcry from fans, THE most shocking and significant event in season 3 is now utterly meaningless. While I'm completely happy that they reversed course on Sarah, it still makes me question the whole point of season 3.

Finally, let me say that it is incredibly cynical of 20th Century Fox to charge the same for HALF a season (13 episodes) as they did for a complete one. Now if this season was nearly as well done as the first two, I could see it as a "must-have" to complete your collection. Unfortunately, it isn't.