"Notes on a Scandal":  Dark and trashy.  That's what I would call this film.  If you want a film that ends with depression in the same way that "Looking for Mr. Goodbar" did, this one's for you.  I'm really surprised that Judi Dench would do a film of this sort after seeing her in the pleasant "As Time Goes By" BBC series.  In America, we don't know all of Dame Judi's exploits in various films - but if you base your opinion of her acting on her PBS show, "As Time Goes By", then you will be disappointed.  She plays a school marm (Barbara) in her sixties in a school in England in which no one really likes her.  At first you don't really know why.  The next character is a young, beautiful, blonde teacher (Cate Blanchett) named Sheba, who is befriended by the school marm and they embark on a strange friendship of convenience.  You realize later that Barbara is manipulative.  You realize this by her thoughts being dubbed-over her contemplative gazes.  She is scheming against Sheba - to force her to be her friend (or more).  Sheba simultaneously is being manipulated by a supposedly sweet young student (15 years old) into a sexual affair.  Since her marriage (to a man approximately 25 years her senior) is dominated by her husband's preoccupation with his Downs Syndrome child of 10 and 14 year old daughter, she seems sexually neglected and one day decides against her better judgment to take the boy up on his proposals.  The boy is from the rough side of town, knows the ropes, and takes advantage of her recent addiction to his sexual prowess. She states to him, "You done my brain in" after their first encounter.  When Barbara chances upon their rendezous in one of the school rooms (during a play to which everyone else in the school is in attendance), she decides not to tell the faculty after she confronts Sheba about it and uses this secret to attempt to form a relationship of dependence between her and Sheba.  She tells Sheba that she will not tell anyone but she must not see the boy privately ever again, but she soon gives in to the boy's persistant telephone text messages mentioning what he was planning to do to her again and they resume activities.  A certain man of the school faculty comes to Barbara hoping she will talk to Sheba and be their matchmaker but Barbara rather uses this opportunity to bring this scandal out into the open as revenge for being jilted by Sheba.  The young woman seeks comfort and pity from the boy when the story breaks and the News Hounds surround her house but she gets none.  He's as street-wise as a pimp, chides her for bringing problems and says, "It's supposed to fun."  She goes to jail for 10 months for her affair with the young man and returns home to her husband who hesitantly receives her back home - in a strange silence.  The movie ends with Barbara trying to befriend yet another young woman on a park bench.  The End.

After viewing, I realized that my wife and I wasted $20.  Robin is a Dame Judi Dench fan but was also disappointed in its dark content.  Judi Dench's character in "As Time Goes By" is great.  This film, "Notes on a Scandal", is terrible and the writers and producers should hang their heads in shame.  It's lousey unless you like trashy movies like "Looking for Mr. Goodbar".