10 years have passed since the end of Babylon 5 and we (fans) have been fortunate to get another taste of the B5 universe. I have seen a few bad reviews posted here and some of them were writen well before the DVD was even released. Some of the more recent bad reviews since are from a few who managed to see it before the official U.S. release. I have been fortunate to see it a few days early as well.

While I recongnize that everyone is entitled to their opinion, be very skeptical of anyone who claims to be a fan of the Babylon 5 universe and yet still manages to write a bad review of this DVD. Before or after they have seen it.

First of all, the creator (JMS) and the show itself are landmarks in acheivement. JMS wrote about 90% of the show's five seasons, while also managing to keep it on air against greedy network folks, and as I heard it, produced one of the only sci-fi shows to ever repeatedly price out at, or under, its alloted budget constraints. ALL of this and it is still one of the best sci-fi shows ever, both in characters and plot. Farscape faced similar challenges several years later. JMS arguably defeated his Star Trek competition through much better continuity, plot, character devolopment,and story arcs. I never found any continuity errors between the show's episodes or in any of the other B5 media (comics and books).

It it here where I offer my opinion in favor of this DVD.

Yes, it is shorter than two episodes are normally. Yes the production sets are a little spartan. And yes, the two episodes don't add much to the established story-arc.

My point? Who cares! Anyone who is a dedicated fan to Babylon 5 should know it was the story that keep fans returning, not the length or special effects. The story was what made this show great, and what makes this new DVD great.

This DVD shows that JMS can still write and produce a thought provoking and stellar story after all these years, on a budget. I actually think 95% of the sets in these two shows were blue screen and CGI. But hey, if he can come in under budget, that maximizes the studio's profit margin and he can make more stories if the DVD sales are sufficient. Meaning better chances for JMS to produce more DVD stories, some of which may be larger contributors to the established story-arc. Maybe even a new series or spin-off.

I know that it was tried before (Crusade and Legend of...), but the world's taste in entertainment has changed since then. Sci-fi is in the mainstream due to the Matrix Trilogy, Star Wars, all the comicbook movies, and various TV shows (Battlestar, Farscape) in the last decade. Babylon 5 is back, and the consumers are the voice of whether it stays. Buy the DVD.

I would like to see more, and will enjoy this DVD when mine comes. I hope you all enjoy this when you see it.