When I was 7 years old I asked my dad if I could go watch the local little league. Not only did he say YES but he gave me 20 cents to "buy a coke". I fell in love with baseball right their. I finally took my spikes off at the age of 42, having spent ten years playing Mens Senior Baseball. Needless to say I was EXCITED to see Ken Burns BASEBALL when it arrived. Unfortunately my excitement diminished with each succeeding episode. Make no mistake about it the baseball content of this film is great but it is surrounded by a level of Civil Rights preachiness that is out of place.Baseball,like all sport,is a product of it's time/culture and to be shouting about not having black players in the Major Leagues in the 1920's,30's and 40's is absurd. There was considerable racial tension throughout this country during those years. To expect baseball to somehow be different is unimaginable. Actually, baseball was ahead of it's time on this isssue. When Branch Rickey put Jackie Robinson on the Dodgers in 1947 Hubert Humphreys great speech on racism had not yet been delivered,Lyndon Johnsons Civil Rights Bill was nearly 20 years away and Martin Luther King was a college student.After baseball was integrated Burns ACTUALLY seems to blame it for the disintegration of the Negro Leagues. UNBELIEVABLE.
  Another MAJOR flaw in this film is it's NEW YORK centrism.If someone watched this film who was unfamiliar with baseball they would think it was a parochial game basically only played in New York. Stan "the Man" Musial wasn't even mentioned until 1963,the year he retired. More time was spent on Fred Merkels boner than was spent on Hack Wilson,Dick Sisler,Mel Ott and CY YOUNG. Of course Merkel did play in New York, so at least he's got that going for himself.
  The final,and possibly worst, flaw in this film is the inclusion of lengthy interviews dispersed throughout by such "baseball experts" as Doris Kearns Goodwin,Stephen Jay Gould and Donald Hall just to name a few.What do these people bring to the game? Who cares if Doris was a Dodger fan and Gould was a Yankee fan. Not all of the interviews were out of place Buck O'Neil was spectacular as was Red Barber but who wants to listen to 23 hours of interspersed innaneties by Goodwin and Gould.
  In summary, I am glad I watched the film but it's flaws were grating by the 23rd hour.I would rename this film BASEBALL IN NEW YORK,CIVIL RIGHTS IN AMERICAN AND INNANE COMMENTARY.