When last we saw him, Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) had become a junkie in order to bring down a Mexican drug lord and stop a deadly virus from being unleashed upon Los Angeles. As always, Bauer managed to save the day. But instead of getting a medal, Bauer got the axe and was dismissed from his position as head of field operations at CTU Los Angeles.

Over a year later, Bauer has found a new life for himself working for Secretary of Defense, James Heller (William Devane). More importantly, Jack has discovered that away from CTU, he has the freedom to pursue a serious relationship. He soon finds himself in love- with Heller's not-quite divorced daughter Audrey (Kim Raver). Just as he's getting comfortable in Washington, Jack finds himself back at CTU meeting with Erin Driscoll (Alberta Watson), the woman who fired him. It soon becomes apparent that Jack's boss and the woman he loves are going to be the targets of a terrorist strike. And as long as they are in danger, Jack Bauer insists on working with CTU to save them- whether his help is wanted or not! As Jack races to rescue Audrey and Secretary Heller, it becomes clearer and clearer that their abduction is only part of what the terrorists have planned for the day- the worst is yet to come!

It's safe to say that Season Four is probably the worst of the series thus far. There's no shortage of new faces on the series, most of whom don't last for very long which makes for a disjointed season. That being said, the worst 24 has to offer is still edge-of-your-seat entertainment that blows away just about all of the competition (except for maybe The Shield). And the ending of Season 4 (which I won't get in to) is good enough that it almost makes up for any flaws the season might have.

Like the Season 3 DVD, Season 4 is packed with a disc worth of special features, chief among them the deleted scenes, an inside look at the designing of a new CTU set, and a prequel to Season 5 .

24, the Complete Fourth Season also stars Carlos Bernard, Reiko Aylesworth, Roger Cross, Lana Parilla, and Dennis Haysbert.