Why does Hollywood not give it up and admit that they're finished?

Year after year we're bombarded with one bad film after another and now its down to sequels and prequels because writers and producers are too lazy to actually come up with new, and original ideas.

This movie is nothing more than a slight variation on the storyline of the last one.

Mostly the same actors, same location, same plot, even some of the same people die....again.

Instead of a blond, jewish, concentration camp survivor,lady doctor, this one is now brunette....whoopy...big change there.

The british major is the same, and true to form blows his brains out....again.

The two brothers...James and Joseph are not the same actors, but the characters are the same, except this time it's the younger brother that get's killed. Way to go to fool the viewers!!

The church is the same...just nicer inside this time, and the natives are...surprise....restless...again!

Native woman gives birth to a maggot covered still-born...again.

The  vatican liaison priest get's it....again.

Digital Hyenas pop up all over the place...again.

Somebody get's strung up in the church....again.

A native get's shot in the head by the crazed Major....again...just this time it's a female. WOW....the creativity!

Even the "God isn't here today priest" Nazi shoots a bunch of dutch villagers again, and forces the priest to choose which will die...again!

The biggest difference here is the demon who possesses a crippled young man....who, for some reason looks curiously Asian. I say this because the story is set in East Africa and I couldn't help but wonder how a Asian cripple made it that far away from home....especially in the late 40's when world travel was not yet a concept as we know it today.

Anyhow, the young man gets taken over by the demon, and turns into a rather feminine looking kind of thing.

The ensuing "fight" between good and evil...that is the archeologist turned priest vs. the fruity looking satan is about as anti-climatic as it can get.

At least in the last version, the devil took on the form of the nice looking lady doctor and there was a good deal of sexual imagery/language in the exorcism. Not this time....it's snooze city.

I can't wait to see what clever and innovative ideas the writers and producers of this epic master piece will come up with for the sequel to this prequel....NOT!

This is junk! No two ways about it.