Understand this: film making is an Art / Industry. Art because of its all-dominant story narration (a film will always tell a story), that's why it has an Author (the director), with his or hers point of view of that single story. Its an industry because all of the human effort and huge amounts of money used to bring into screen any type of story. Unfortunately in many countries and specially in Hollywood Big Studio System, it's become all about making money, this is the Gringo way. And so, every once in while filmmaking is brought to the art level, and even better, more rarely a director with a soul and conscience delivers an important film to society and art in general, this is the case with Oliver Stone's J.F.K. Stone asks 150 questions about President Kennedy's murder, maybe he got 5 things wrong, but what about the other 145 things he got right? The Big Shots where afraid of a man that could have change things for better, wiping out their biggest moneymaker: WAR, taking away all their Power (both politically and military). Frustrated with this possibility, it became evident Kennedy had to be put to rest. If you follow the clues, understanding them in their context to the end, you will know WHO did it, and WHY they did it. J.F.K does something that has become more and more rarely in the USA film industry; it makes you Think!
Jim Garrison's fearless quest for truth against a corrupted Government has no parallel in U.S.A history, and Oliver Stone takes such a brave and honest piece of Gringo history, narrating it with his unique straight and Powerful style (the best word that describes this brilliant film). Stone has the courage to point you with his finger and say: How dare you sons of bit... The film's magnificent script was stolen twice beginning shooting. Censorship (back up by who knows who), tried to stop the movie from being shown in theaters. Fortunately the film made it to the screen. Only a keen and masterful director like Oliver Stone is capable to make such a Masterpiece, all the praises to him and his crew. More than speculations the movie becomes aware of the facts. The complexity of the script becomes a puzzle put in order. Kennedy's shot to the face, the most ridiculous bullet in all history (more spin offs and turns would had made this bullet a ballet dancer), the Shadow Conspiracy shown here with that breathtaking speech from Donald Sutherland's character inter cut with Stone's trade mark black and white documentary photography and fast paced editing. Vietnam, money, power thirst, the Zapruder film as the main key evidence, is right in your face; this is pure and honest patriotism. Further than entertainment, is captivating, the movie won't let you turn your face away. What more could you ask for? But there is more, this film will test time and go along for new generations to communicate and pass on the knowledge of this tragic event, provoking an insight conscience in every new spectator, it can't be forgotten by obvious reasons.
The new Directors Cut, features 17 minutes of never before seen footage, making the view richer, the extras will make more complete the whole picture as well as the points of view of the objective Insight especially the simultaneous commentary audio track by Oliver Stone, and the Assassination Update (The New Documents), Beyond JFK: The Question of Conspiracy, feature-length documentary, and Meet Mr. X: The Personality and Thoughts of Fletcher Prouty. So, this is a must for your DVD collection (both the Double Disc Special Edition, Director's Cut, and the Single Disc Special Edition, Director's Cut are great).
The last thing to say about J.F.K is that it is more shocking today than it was yesterday. Why? Because it reflects today's corruption and manipulation of a Government that carries on with blood in its hands, and bloody hands are never washed clean, a lesson not enough thought in schools, its ugly but some one has to do it. J.F.K message is: Do not forget!