Narc is a very decent first outing for its director, although some of the camerawork could possibly induce as much nausea as the Blair Witch Project did for some people.  The filmmakers tailored the film to match the color scheme and feel of The French Connection and Serpico.  For its writing and directing, it's about a three star film, not bad by any means, but not as superb as the films it emulates.  However, there are two reasons to make this film a must see (and these set Narc higher than the traditional three-star rating): Ray Liotta and Jason Patric.
Jason Patric plays an undercover vice cop who's been put out to pasture for an accidental wounding he caused.  He has pretty much become a stay-at-home dad by the time he is asked to come back on assignment to help solve a murder of a fellow undercover vice cop.  The tensions between his wife and his job build significantly throughout the film, particularly after Patric meets and teams up with Ray Liotta's Henry Oak character.  
Like the last name suggests, Oak is a big solid heavy hitting cop, and in the great tradition of crooked cop movies, there's something just not right about him.  Nevertheless as we join the two cops on the quest to solve the murder, Liotta's character fiendishly oozes charisma (If only people had the same drive Oak's character has to channel through more creative and less brutal outlets!).  As the director Joe Carnahan commented in the 'making of' featurettes, there is a Dante-esque feel that the two cops are descending further and further into Hell, and their facades become more and more stripped away, revealing Oak to be some sort of a madman.  
As is to be expected, there is a radical twist in the last few minutes of the film, that you may or may not see coming.  Nevertheless, it illustrates much like Kurosawa's Rashomon, that what you think you saw isn't always what happened--and yet each viewpoint contains a grain of truth.
To sum up: There's a good story line that almost, but not quite, outstays its welcome, solid gritty directing, and two incredibly good performances from Ray Liotta and Jason Patric.  If you see this movie for any reason, make it for the performances of the two disparate leading actors.