In my opinion - and I know many may disagree - 'Malcolm X' depicts the best acting Denzel Washington has ever given in any movie. Starring as the late Afro-American leader, Denzel almost perfectly embodies the early thuggish ways of Malcolm Little during his life of crime, and his born-again, revolution-poised personality that grew out of his embracing Islam and reading while in prison. Scenes such as the 'Plymouth Rock landed on us' and the 'American right-wing' speeches, the 'chicken comin' home to roost' press conference after Kennedy's assassination, and the pilgrimage to Mecca shows how well Denzel played his part.

  In general, the movie features an excellent cast of characters, such as Spike Lee (director) as shorty, Malcolm's partner in crime,  Angela Basset (superb acting, by the way) as Betty Shabbaz, Malcolm's wife, and Al Freeman, who does a terrific job emulating the clipped, choppy speech of the real Elijah Muhammed.

There were, however, some factual holes in the movie that either Spike Lee weeded out for ethical reasons or were a bit distorted for the sake of sticking to Hollywood-thriller standards. For example, the character of brother Baines (Albert Hall), who first introduces Malcolm to Islam and later turns against him, is ficticious. However, the person most closely associated with Baines in real life would be reverend Louis Farrakkan, who had been a rival to Malcolm X and nowadays leads the Nation of Islam. So to allude directly to Farrakkan would be somehow indicting or at least especulating as to identify the person behind Malcolm's demise. For this one I can understand why Lee chose a more subtle approach.

Another example is Malcolm's upbringing to radical, Black nationalist politics. Lee's sort of gives a hint to Malcolm's influences from Marcus Garvey, only after the movie makes a short mention of it when Malcolm recalls his childhood and narrates passages of his father's preachings and defiance of the Ku Klux Klan. However, Lee does not focus on other literature and people, besides the Koran and Elijah Muhammed, from where Malcolm drew most of his political beliefs.

But that aside, the movie is good enough to educate the audience  about the life of this great revolutionary. The plot is very well-crafted, the acting is outstanding, and the short narrative with real takes of Malcolm X that ends with Nelson Mandela's  reflection at a elementary school classroom is just terrific for a golden finale.

I recommend this movie to get you started on Malcolm  X  and his ideas, but after you see it, get the autobiography, his definite, ever-lasting legacy as told by the man himself.