I first saw this movie on HBO, and while I was glad I didn't pay money in a theater to see it, I still don't think it's the biggest waste of movie time ever. (I'm still trying to get back the 90 minutes of my life I lost to "The Forgotten," though I long since made Time-Warner refund me the $3.99 charge for its rental.) Initially I would have given Fracture 2 stars, but once I started thinking of Willie as a young Jack McCoy of Law and Order I decided it was really more of a 3, almost a 3.5 star movie.

This movie had nothing to do with Jack McCoy or Law and Order, I just felt like it should have.  Other reviewers said they would have been more accepting of this as a TV movie, and I came to agree. It would have been the perfect NBC Sunday night movie about how Jack McCoy of Law and Order came to be who he is.

It should have been a better movie; the writing, directing and acting could all have been better.  Hopkins is adept in his role as the intelligent and manipulative psychopath. Backhandedly overbearing, he subtly insults even while playing disarmingly naïve, dropping  hints to people that he is smarter than and a few steps ahead of them. Gosling is convincing as the cocky, overconfident young man. Typically he is not easily fooled and fairly unflappable, as certain of his success in the bedroom as the courtroom, but Gosling played his role with a bit too much of the "it's all good" attitude. He wasn't very convincing in scenes that were supposed to display urgency or intensity, not in the courtroom or out of it. There also wasn't much chemistry between him and Nikki, his new boss and romantic interest. That she was his new boss with whom he immediately gets involved with, and given that it was a job he got with an off hand legal stunt and still had to prove himself at should have made their affair feel more risqu&eacute;, but didn't.  I generally couldn't feel the heat of his anger, frustration, or even lust. This could also have due to poor writing, directing, and maybe even casting. He did have one really good scene with one of the detectives, the one played by Cliff Curtis, where they were both frustrated with events and each other and played it well, so I couldn't be sure he couldn't deliver more emotional intensity if the movie had been better written and directed. Unfortunately the parts where tension and suspense were supposed to be building generally fell flat.

Now if it had been about Jack McCoy, Lobruto could have been Adam Schiff, making the scenes between them more emotionally charged, particularly the one where Willie says "that's what this is about, I'm not going to be you in 20 years" to Lobruto. Lobruto knows Willie better than Willie knows himself and seems to be able to mentor him in the same way Adam Schiff might have mentored a young Jack McCoy.  Fracture wasn't made for the Law and Order franchise, unfortunately.

As far as the DVD extras, there wasn't that much, but there are a lot of better movies with fewer DVD extras. Deleted scenes and alternate endings were included. They were interesting to see but better left out of the movie, in my opinion. There was no commentary track though and that seemed like sour grapes to me.

This is the story of a confident young lawyer that knows how to win and remain ethical, (even if he's riding the line ethically) but learns how to care. It's neither the best nor worst movie you'll ever see. I went ahead and got it from Amazon market place because I would have gotten it from the $5.50 bin at Wal-Mart, I just don't feel like waiting for it to get there.