Wes Craven hit his mark with this movie. He invokes the "based upon truthful facts" motif and adds in conventional supernatural scares and effects. He made a totally original, fast moving movie, and emotionally movie picture (where you empathize with the main character).

The movie is a serious attempt at examining Haitian Voodoo and the use of toxins to make somebody think their dead and transform them into submissive zombies. An Ivy League professor attempts to scholarly investigate this ages- old practice (he thinks it should be legitimately used im a medical manner) and must go "undergound" and deal with scary and lurking characters to get access to the information and ingredients. All of this during the overthrough of Haiti's "Baby Doc" dictatorship so the political climate is just as threatening as the Voodoo element.

This is 1980's movie has some truly scary parts in it. The horror involves more the reality of being drugged, left for dead and actually knowing about it, as opposed to conventional scares with gore or lurking killers. Bill Pullman is terrific as the Harvard professor who goes "too far".

Because this movie came out close to the time of Wes Craven's "Nightmare on Elm Street", he utilizes the "is this reality or not"  scenes which are decently effecttive in this movie.

The movie is an excellent horror film and stands up well out of the horror genre as well since the subject matter and way it's presented is very captivating.

The only problem with the film is in it's ending. The movie goes from being a fascinating, somewhat rooted in fact premise, to all of a sudden "everything but the kitchen sink" is thrown in to just create a stereotypcial, Hollywood melodramatic ending. The ending is quite disappointing simply because the rest of the movie is so [seemingly] credible. It's as though the makers had a great idea for a premise for a movie yet, they did not know whert to take that premise and affix a climax to it. Because of the time that it came out, there's also a bit of 80's hokiness as well.

Nonetheless, the flawed ending does not totally take away from holistically looking at this movie and concluding that it is far above most of the other films in the genre. After the first "Nightmare on Elm Street", this is by far Craven's best work.