Maybe I just have a soft spot in my heart for this version of "King Kong" because it was the first "Kong" I ever saw, but I've always enjoyed the 1976 incarnation.  When Peter Jackson's "Kong" came out on DVD, I picked it up, as well as the 1933 original (which I'd never seen all the way through) and had myself a little "Kong" marathon, beginning with the original.

As I watched the 1933 version of "Kong," I realized that, other than a few superficial changes (Kong's captor is an oil magnate, rather than a filmmaker; Jack is an environmentalist hippie rather than first mate of the ship; "Beauty" is named "Dwan" rather than Ann Darrow) the 1976 remake actually stayed very close to the original.  Others have described the 1976 version as satirical.  That may be so -- is certainly seems campy enough at times, but then so do a lot of other DeLaurentiis films I've seen.  One thing that is obvious, however, is that DeLaurentiis has great respect for the source material.  In my opinion, he shows it a lot more than Peter Jackson did.  Really, all that DeLaurentiis did was take the original story and set it in the 1970's, making changes only to make it more relatable to a more modern audience.

In the 1930's people were more concerned with the Depression and movies were the main way they escaped it for awhile.  In the 1970's the big issue was gasoline shortages, and people were becoming more aware of the impact our dependence upon fossil fuels was having on the environment.  Hence the change from a veteran moviemaker trying to make a fantastic, gripping new film to a veteran oilman trying to find the next big strike.

While in the original movie all of the characters had some redeeming qualities, in this version the Carl Denham character (can't remember the character's name in this version) doesn't have any, and it feels so good when Kong stomps him flat -- but that's in keeping with the image of Big Oil as soulless bloodsuckers, which was how many people felt in the '70's.

1976's "Kong" is set in the 1970's with 1970's sensibilities, rather than in the 1930's with 1970's sensibilities, while still keeping the same story (and, for the most part, characterizations) as the original.  Taking into account the difference in the two decades, 1976's "Kong" is not much changed from the original, other than the fact that DeLaurentiis' film looks slicker, and his giant monkey looks much more realistic.  Sure, it's cheesy, but without access to the CGI effects of today, the only way they could have made Kong look like a real gorilla would have been to film a real gorilla rampaging through a miniature set of New York.