When do you first realize that this is a different film?  Perhaps when oil tycoon Burt Lancaster sleeps (snoring loudly) during a meeting, the sycophants in the room whispering to them (and us) the basic exposition of  the plot.  A brilliant and different way to both set the stage and  introduce the true nature of a character.  Or when you realize that he  cares far more about astronomy and comets ("comets are  important") than oil.  Or the charming little town in Scotland that  can't wait to sell out, each of them fantasizing how they'll spend their  share.  The expected roles, the cliches about how stereotypes are supposed  to act, are tossed away.  There is something enthralling in that alone.  The transformation of Mac, brilliantly played by Peter Reigert, is both  heartwarming and ultimately so incredibly human.  Perhaps the most  surprising and satisfying aspect of this movie is its creation of a sense  of place.  You get to know the village, and what seemed at first odd and  quirky grew -- like it did for Mac -- into the comfortable and the  expected.  Each character is a gem, from the capitalist Russian singing  about Texas (Mac's home) to the shopkeeper, to Urqhuart and his wife, both  totally in love with each other... ah, one can go on and on.  
A friend  and I have a test for this movie:  If the final scene is heartwrenching and  perfect, you got it.  If it's merely cute, see it a few more times.
Like  other reviewers, a few favorite scenes and quotes:
The extraordinary,  nearly magical entrance of Happer to the Scottish beach.  Goosebump  city.
Happer's initial examination of the beach.  "It's a good  place... well done, MacIntyre."
The two scientist who proudly say  that the refinery will survive the next ice age.  
"It was a clean  break... check the bones."
Mac sniffing the seashells in his Houston  apartment.  
"If he mentions anything to do with sand, say  yes."
"Oh my god... IT'S BLUE ALL OVER! "
Urquhart  asking his roofer to stop, then when his wife comes in the room, telling  the roofer he can start up again.  
Or Marina showing up suddenly an  unexpectedly in a shimmering white dress, so completely different than the  rubber diving suit she'd worn in previous scenes.  
Frankly, it's hard to  think of a scene that isn't a gem. nor characters who add both to the  "sense of place" or are individually memorable.  Peter Reigert  holds it together, his Mac being both the foil and our eyes.  As he changes  we change along with him.  
The creators of Northern Exposure have cited  this movie as one of their inspirations, and it shows.  One hopes that  other people in The Industry will look at this gem in a similar way.