The brilliant creators of the original "King Kong" concocted a cinematic soup the likes of which had never been seen- and never will be again. They combined elements of exploratory adventure, ancient pagan religion requiring human sacrifice, paleontology, archeology, mythology and romance. They added eye-popping special effects and an ear-shattering array of sounds- roars, grunts, squawks, hisses, shouts, crashes and those famous spine-tingling screams. All this was enhanced by an electrifying musical score and perfect casting. The result is the most exciting adrenaline rush of a movie experience that, even after countless viewings, never fails to deliver. Everyone has a favorite scene: perhaps the throbbingly frenzied bridal sacrifice; maybe the gargantuan hand snatching the beautiful heroine from her hotel room; or the colossal fight between Kong and the slithering, snapping carnivorous dinosaur- a struggle that has never been equaled in the history of screen showdowns. This movie is a series of unforgettably haunting images and sounds. With his gusto and theatrical voice, Robert Armstrong portrays the expedition leader Carl Denham with a contagious enthusiasm. Bruce Cabot delivers a refreshingly uncomplicated, virile performance- his Jack Driscoll cares only about saving the woman he has come to love. To make this fantastic story plausible, the most critical casting was that of Ann Darrow. With the wrong actress, all of the aforementioned elements would not have been enough to save the film's premise from falling faster than a giant gorilla off the Empire State Building. Indeed, it would have been merely an elaborate dirty joke. Fortunately, they cast an actress with the perfect combination of credentials: beauty, feminine grace, sweet innocense and an uncanny ability to portray sheer, unadulterated terror. Fay Wray was- and is- the only woman for Kong. Almost seventy years of sequels, remakes and ripoffs only emphasize this movie's matchless ability to entertain.  Carl Denham's prophetic declaration early in the film still applies today- we need "new adjectives" to describe this work of art.