Gargoyles is one of the greatest television shows ever made.  I'm not even limiting that to other animated shows- I'd put it head-to-head against almost anything.  Season one was great, but season two is fantastic.  In it, the Gargoyles universe is expanded far beyond Manhattan and the handful of antagonists.  We are introduced to Shakespeare's Puck (Brent Spiner) in "The Mirror," widely considered to be the best single-part episode of the series, and unbelievably funny.  We also learn more fully the reasons Demona hates humans, and just who this Macbeth is and why he wants her so badly, in the four-part "City of Stone."  This last was especially formative for me- I still remember the edge-of-your-seat feeling I had from having to wait a whole day between parts three and four, and the ending, showing the true depths of Demona's sorrow, is absolutely heartbreaking.  There's even more on these discs, though.  We find out that conspiracy nut Matt Bluestone was really onto something with his paranoia about the Illuminati.  We get the first taste of time travel when the Phoenix Gate is introduced in "Vows."  Unlike many series, though, the time travel episodes are not merely tossed in so the characters can play around in new settings, but are actually integral to the story (and the time travel rules are also handled very differently from the typical style, a la "Back to the Future").  The Eye of Odin, basically a macguffin in season one's "The Edge," turns out to be an artifact of great power in the very romantic Halloween episode "Eye of the Beholder," one of my personal favorites.  Coldstone makes two reappearances, and we learn there's more going on in his head than meets the eye.  The mutates, humans turned into gargoyle-like creatures, are introduced, and Elisa has to deal with her brother becoming one.  Thailog, a clone of Goliath, is created by Xanatos, and turns out to be even more vicious than his "father."  All of this culminates, though, with the "Avalon" three-parter, which features the return of one-shot villain The Archmage ("but-he's dead, right?") as almost demonically powerful, and the discovery that the eggs left in the rookery back at the beginning of the series survived in a most ingenious fashion, leaving Goliath with the new responsibilities of parenthood.  Also, the name "Avalon" may clue some people into a certain literary character who makes an appearance.  Finally, the "Avalon" episodes kick off the World Tour, which introduces dozens of characters from myth and legend.  If I haven't made my opinion clear, let me summarize: you should buy this set.  I promise, you will not be disappointed.