The tenth film of the James Bond series gives the series a nice shot of adrenaline after the relative nadirs of Diamonds Are Forever and Live & Let Die. Roger Moore's third outing as 007 finally establishes solidity after the debut of Live & Let Die and the impressive growth into the character he displayed in The Man With The Golden Gun.
In addition to Moore's full growth into the character, Spy Who Loved Me is infused with a strong rival in KGB Major Anya Amasova. Barbara Bach admittedly doesn't show consistent acting prowess, but here she displays agreeable command of her character. Also adding life is Richard Kiel in his first outing as the natural successor to Sean Connery's over-the-top rival Oddjob - Jaws. 
But the one who contributes the most among the supporting cast is Shane Rimmer as Captain Carter of the attack submarine USS Wayne. Rimmer, best known as Scott Tracy of Thunderbirds, infuses some of Scott Tracy's charm into the role and his interaction with James Bond clicks very nicely throughout. One almost regrets the absence of David Holliday, David Graham, and Ray Barrett to help out Rimmer.
The film's elaborate sets and SFX are also among the best of the series, and display a tremendous growth in sophistication. To put it bluntly, the FX work in most previous Bond films left almost everything to be desired. Now, though, thanks to the employment of Derek Meddings (like Rimmer a Thunderbirds alum), the series' SFX reach a new height of visual power and believability. 
The film begins with a sudden power failure on board the HMS Ranger, a Polaris missile submarine that promptly disappears. Later, in Moscow, General Anatole Gogol (Walter Gotell, previously Morzeny in From Russia With Love) learns of an identical disappearence of the Soviet missile boat Potemkin. The two powers' summon their best agents, but first James Bond gets into a ski-top shootout with a Russian agent - who is the lover of Major Anya Amasova.
James and Major Geoffrey Boothroyd - aka Q (Desmond Llywellen) attend a meeting of Royal Navy brass and Defense Minister Sir Frederick Grey (Geoffrey Keen) - note the presence of the RN's flag officer for submarines, Admiral Hargraves, played by Robert Brown. Admiral Hargraves will succeed Sir Miles Merservy as M in future Bond films. 
The meeting concerns a map displaying the route of the Ranger, a map illegally acquired via a powerful submarine tracking system that has gone on the black market - a transaction that leads to the mid-air destruction of a helicopter carrying the system's inventors. James must find the microfilm from which the map originated and get it back, but also on the film's trail is Major Amasova. The two agents begin a running chase to one-up each other as well as dodge hulking killer Jaws, and it ultimately leads to a rare bit of Anglo-Soviet cooperation.
This cooperation, however, has a fatal catch - Anya eventually learns the truth about James and her lover, a truth that sees a bullet in her sidearm with 007 on it. 
All of this, though, takes a back seat to an insane plan involving the missing submarines, with which the USS Wayne eventually joins. The plan involves the firing of missiles, and if James and Captain Carter can't stop them, global destruction will commence. 
And to make things even more complicated, James must sneak aboard the mid-ocean hideout of the magnate responsible for the plan, to rescue Anya and put an end to the threat once and for all. 
And when it is all said and done, James and Anya find that Anglo-Soviet cooperation can also involve keeping their respective ends up.