The Farelly brothers who have in the past delivered such cinematic masterpieces as KINGPIN and DUMB AND DUMBER, are back at what they do best, and they are bigger, (maybe) better and (definitely) more gross than ever. Boldly throwing caution and any semblance of good taste to the wind, they deliver a chuckle-fest that might shock, disgust, and repel, but will without fail leave the viewer in splits.

THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is in fact a sublime lesson on how to twist the simplest of storylines into a signature style of story-telling that is bound to leave an impact in the minds of viewers even weeks after they have seen it. "Politically incorrect" is an understatement when it comes to TSAB. The Farrellys don't spare anyone in their effort to attain new levels of snot-inducing toilet humour. Helpless animals, obese folks, handicapped guys, senior citizens are all targets of gags. Maybe the next edition of Oxford's will have a picture of Peter and Bobby Farrelly next to Gross and Tasteless. There is liberal usage of various bodily parts and function which make for most of the visual gags, right from a close up shot of what Ted has gotten stuck in his zipper, to a disgusting shot of fake sagging boobs in all their glory, and the infamous masturbation, or as it is more popularly know, the "hair-gel" episode.

The storyline is no great burden on the brain. Rhode Island loserboy Ted Stroehmann (Ben Stiller) has a major crush on Mary Jenson (Cameron Diaz), just like every other guy on campus. However, him being the proverbial dorky-geek-with-braces-but-with-heart-of-gold, she asks him to the prom anyway. However, on the big day, thing go horribly wrong with Ted (guys would understandably sympathize more), and he has to be whisked away to the hospital. Mary's family moves to Miami, and since then, he has had no contact with her. Now, thirteen years after graduation, he finds out he still longs for her. So he hires a sleazeball investigator Pat Healy (Matt Dillon) to track her down. Time to introduce the love triangle. Pat falls for her hook, line, and sinker. Getting back, he paints a real bleak picture of Mary, with her being overweight, unwed with children, and now working as a mail order bride. However Ted being who he is, not-so-dorky-anymore-but-still-a-loserboy-with-a-heart-of-gold, decides to meet her anyway. The rest of the movie is as predictable as the state of our roads during monsoon, but the potholes on the way are custom-made to hit you when least expected.

While not needing any great displays of acting prowess, everyone in the movie is just fine in their roles. Cameron Diaz is totally believable as the beautiful and cheery-as-sunshine sweet little small-town girl, who has everyone falling for her. Ben Stiller comic timing is unquestionable, with an equally good ability to get a fair amount of "awwws" when he does his droopy sad looks. Sleaze has never been defined better than with Matt Dillon's character, and he runs away with some of the best lines in the movie.

The supporting cast is as good as headliners. Lee Evans as Tucker, Mary's friend, shines in a role as a physically handicapped architect. W. Earl Brown, as Mary's retarded brother is fine in a role that doesn't require much of him except to be the scapegoat for a number of offensive gags. Chris Elliott as Dom, Ted's best friend passes muster.

However, the show-stealer would have to be the little dog belonging to Magda (Lin Shaye), Mary's raunchy old-as-the-hills neighbour. Involved in a vicious man-animal wrestling match with Ted, and the centre of an extended sight gag where Pat has to revive it from its unconsciousness, the dig gives a voracious display of canine capers.

I also loved the use of Jonathan Richman as the guitar-toting guy, with his bongo-busting sidekick, who keeps popping up with songs meant to let us in on the state on Ted's progress.

So what would be the downer? Well, for one, the sight gags sometimes fail to deliver, or get to be a bit too disgusting to be palatable. Plus at times, the movie is dry without any comic parts. The most obvious flaw in the movie would be that it has a hard time deciding what exactly it wants to convey. Well scripted, emotional parts are rudely interrupted with toilet humour, and conversely, at times, the toilet gags are used to convey a deeper message.

This movie has an appeal that is hard to ignore. Even the strictly serious art-films-only type of killjoys will be hard pressed to stiffle their laughter. Oscar material this is not, but recommended to anyone looking for a good time.