Do you guys remember Edward D. Wood Jr., considered to be one of the worst directors of all time? Tim Burton did a sought-after biopic film about him as well. Let's begin. It opens with a similar intro to Plan 9 From Outer Space with The Amazing Criswell (Jeffery Jones) introducing the basis of the movie. It shows Ed Wood (Johnny Depp) struggling to join the film industry. When he hears for an offer from producer George Weiss (Mike Starr) to join in the production of a gender change film, "I Changed My Sex!", Ed decides to take the offer because he likes to don women disguises with pretty much any women's garments, which is hilarious! He meets his childhood Idol Bela Lugosi (Martin Landau) and they become friends and Bela joins in the movie. He wrote the script and showed to to his then-girlfriend, Dolores Fuller (Sarah Jessica Parker), who loses her mind when he reviles his secret. He is also great friends with Bunny Breckinridge (Bill Murray), who decides to undergo a gender change surgery, but later changes his mind after an accident. He changed the title of the film to "Glen or Glenda"  with Bela beginning the film with his famous line "Pull the String!",and Ed was enthusiastic that he wrote, produced, directed, and starred in his own movie. Unfortunately, it failed commercially, critically and financially. He tries again to land a job at Warner Bros. and fund enough money for his next try at a movie, Bride of the Atom. That was unsuccessful, but he meets Criswell. At the bar, Ed meets Loretta King (Juliet Landau), who he thinks has enough money for his next film. Filming starts, but is put on hold. He convinced meat tycoon, Don McCoy, to fund the rest of the film, on the condition that they cast his son, Tony, and end it with a big explosion. He even meets the local Vampira Show host Vampira (Lisa Marie). As a result of Ed's transvestism and circle of friends, He and Dolores break up after the wrap party. Bela reveals to Ed that he has depression and a morphine addiction, and tries a double suicide, but Ed convinces him to get help in rehab instead. Ed eventually meets and dates Kathy O'Hara (Patricia Arquette), who doesn't mind his nature. Ed begins shooting of another film with Bela outside of his home. The group meets up at the Bride of the Monster premier, with an angry mob chasing them away and looting the car. An angry kid even gets Vampira in the chest! Sometime later, Bela dies leaving Ed without a star. Ed convinces Reynolds that his script for "Grave Robbers from Outer Space" will result in a box office success. He finds a stunt double for the late Bela Lugosi in Kathy's chiropractor Dr. Tom Mason (Ned Bellamy). However, Ed and the Baptists have a problem with the title and decide to change it to Plan 9 from Outer Space along with his cheap movie-making skills. The pressure from the crew caused the distressed Ed to leave the set for the nearest bar where he meets another icon Orson Wells (Vincent D'Onofrio), the director of Citizen Kane, which I am planning to see later on. Wells encourages Ed to follow his dreams, finish the movie in his vision, and take action against the producers. The film ends with the premier for Plan 9, and Ed and Kathy getting married in Las Vegas, with an epilogue showing the outcome of all the main characters. This great, underrated, and sought-after movie shows a certain charm to Ed Wood's career. He made his movies super-fast and super-cheap. He didn't care about the casting and visual effects much. He mainly focuses on the plot despite the stories being dumb. It is another outstanding film by Tim Burton that rivals Edward Scizzorhands among others. It is really funny and features a message to pursue your dreams and that in terms of movie-making, the story matters the most. Most of the actors played the parts flawlessly, but the film's portrayal of Dolores Fuller was different from the real-life version, however. The black-and-white style enhances the mood like one of those early movies from the 40's and 50's and it worked out surprisingly well. If you find this movie, buy it. It is worth it to learn about one of the underdogs of film history.

P.S. When the Golden Turkey Awards gave Ed Wood the honor for worst director of all time, after seeing this film, I would rather give that honor to Uwe Boll! He makes Ed Wood look like James Cameron! Trust me!