Judy Garland's tragic story is a textbook example of what happens if addiction is inadequately treated.  Of course, in her day little was known about how addiction works and how to deal with it.  Perhaps today she might have had a fighting chance.  As it was, it was as if she was doomed from the moment she was handed her first dose of pills.
This film whitewashes Lorna Luft's book, on which it was based.  I only skimmed through the book, but that was enough to tell me that many incidents described in the book were glossed over in the film, and others -- the worst being a horrifying incident involving Lorna Luft's brother Joey -- were omitted entirely.  This is odd, since if Lorna Luft wasn't afraid to include these incidents in her book, why did she, as a producer, leave them out of the film?  The film also doesn't reveal the fact that Joey suffers from some degree of mental disability due to his mother's drug and alcohol use during pregnancy.
The person I sympathize with the most is not Judy Garland, however; it is her third husband, Sid Luft.  As played by Victor Garber, he seems too smart to get involved with someone like her, but maybe Garber is merely a little miscast (even so, his performance earned him an Emmy nomination).  More than once while watching the scenes following their marriage, I wondered why he didn't just haul off and break her scrawny little neck.  Loving Judy Garland was not exactly a rewarding experience.
It is understandable that Lorna Luft would want to take a forgiving look at her mother's life, but somehow I ended up disliking Judy Garland, not understanding her.  Maybe my reaction is a credit to Judy Davis's incredible performance as Judy Garland (Tammy Blanchard is also marvelous as Judy Garland in her younger years). Ms. Luft, in a  voice-over at the end of the film, says that people should not look at her family's story as a tragedy.  I must respectfully disagree.  This feeble attempt to end the film on a note of optimism just didn't wash after witnessing the damage Judy Garland did to her family. 
If you want a sobering look at what addiction can do to a family, then this film is just right.  But don't expect an objective look at Judy Garland's life.