This story of a blue collar father's fight for custody of his three daughter's from his blatantly selfish and irresponsible ex wife was excellent.  Idris Elba is a woefully underrated actor from England who was perfect in this role.  I have been a fan since seeing him in the dramatic film "Sometimes in April" which deals with the affect of the Rwandan genocide on two brothers who have opposing idealogies.  In that film Idris was awesome as a family man with three children and a wife to protect while the world was spiraling out of control around them.  If you haven't seen it, check it out Idris and the rest of the supporting cast are superb.

Here in Daddy's Little Girl's Idris once again gives a honest, heart-felt performance.  The chemistry between Idris and Gabrielle Union was great and I loved the date scene at the club where they first begin to really bond.  Gabrielle was so amusing playing someone who loosens up after a couple of drinks and reveals a sweet heart under the tough "corporate woman" exterior, another one of my favorite scenes is how humorous she is when she gets home from the club.  There wasn't one "false note" in her performance in the film, I enjoyed her throughout.

The three girls in the movie are also biological sisters and were cast perfectly, they each have great talent and I am certain we will be seeing a lot of more of them.  Lou Gossett is the headliner and his part as a mentor and friend to Idris is also a great addition to the cast.

My least favorite character is the ex-wife's lover who grossly overplayed all of his scenes.

Overall this is a feel good movie and Tyler Perry's most even-handed attempt at producing and directing.  As mentioned the casting of the leading man and woman was right on point, far superior to all the other TP movies.  Tyler is continuing to grow in his craft and I look forward to more family-friendly movies from him that deal with life's many challenges.

P.S.  I also loved the blues song performed live at the club where Idris and Gabrielle have their first date!  Too bad its not on the soundtrack...a sad oversight.