This movie was made on the cusp on the '90s, and far before we made our way into the joyless husk of the 21st century.  Back then we were receptive to movies that had a particular style, and not a banal, quasi-realistic patina that passes for artistry these days.  Tim Burton was, and still is, one of the most recognizable stylists of our cinematic era.  Who can fail to recognize a Burtonesque film, with it's towering, grotesque structures that seem to have facial features like eyes and a distorted mouth?  He invented the dark movie, which used shadows and black spaces to provide a kind of gothic, dangerous and enthralling shot.  Unrestrained, Burton tends to go overboard and far beyond the medium he needs to strike to weave a good story.  However, with this first Batman movie, Burton was able to mold his gothic flavorings with subtlety.

The film begins 'in media res' with Batman's career not quite in his prime.  The movie opens as a family makes their way through Gotham City's backalleys trying to find a route back after a show.  They are mugged.  As the muggers sit on top of the roof reviewing the take, Batman (Michael Keaton) drops down and reeks havoc.

Meanwhile, Jack Napier (Jack Nicholson) is being set up by his boss Carl Grissom (Jack Palance) over a woman that they both are involved with.  He sends Napier to Axis Chemical, and tips off the police at the same time.  Batman gets word, and heads out to catch Napier.

All the while Vicky Vale (Michelle Pfeiffer) is following Batman, snapping photos, getting involved with Batman's real identity Bruce Wayne, and screaming and getting in trouble.  The perfect heroine.

The way this movie was done, with the dark, gritty, noir-esque settings of Batman and the 'lightness' of the dark comedy from Nicholson's Joker, gives the movie a vitality that all the others have lacked to a certain extent.  Also, unlike the other films, there's actually a point to the proceedings.  With the new film 'Batman Begins' the whole idea behind becoming Batman is wrapped up in an allegorical symbol that's both banal and uninteresting.  In the first 'Batman' here; being Batman is a route to vengeance, fueled by a rage boiling for years.  Batman is not an empty vessel to be filled up with ideals of justice and incorruptibility, but a flawed, corrupted mind seeking a path towards revenge.

This makes Bruce Wayne clumsy, awkward; an outsider.  He throws parties that fills his house, yet he has no friends to speak of.  His relationship with Vale is hampered by the fact that he is Batman, and revealing it to her is a huge risk.

Jack Nicholson turns in an unforgettable performance as the Joker.  He gives the role the life and free-form that is required.  If the Joker were too restrained, or too out of his mind, then the villian would be ruined.  As it is, the Joker is a characterisation of how genius often borders on insanity.  Nicholson walks the tightrope with ease.

Keaton himself embodies the traits of Bruce Wayne.  He's a very quirky individual, both Wayne and Keaton.  Not that it matters in a role; but it adds to the flavor on screen.  A 'straight' man, someone in the realm of say George Clooney, or Christian Bale, aren't exactly what I'd call quirky.

I'm not sure when they'll do another Batman, or if it will be any good.  The litmus test any Batman movie will have to face will be this one, because it is so good, so stylistic without being overdone, so enticingly dreary without being saccharine.  Most people say that this 'Batman' is "like, real, dude."  Not so, it's a Tim Burton interpretation of Batman's character, and so far, this is the only interpretation that has been right.

P.S.- And you can't review the movie without mentioning the Danny Elfman score.  Watching 'Batman Begins' I prayed for just a hint of that ascending theme from the first film.  It was not to be.  No themes, no real drive.  Just sort of swirling and aimless.  Elfman, more than any other conductor, knows how to compose a recognizable theme that fits in with his subject matter.  'Batman' is one of his finest works.