I do not recommend this movie for anyone under 18 years old because it plays on the fears of the dentist drills and the use of dentistry as  a method of torture. I can assure you some of the most severe pain I have ever had was the result of dental problems which most pain killing medications failed to stop the pain even the heavy stuff brought no relief. Even if you are older, as I am, the phase 'Is it safe?' seems to haunt me--especially when I am in need of dental care. As a  drama thiller it is a very good movie but since I first saw it think that presently THE FIRM movie version was a better film with a stronger plot and it haunts the same ole stomping grounds of Grisham's other novels such as THE CLIENT. For its time; Marathon Man is a superb movie that not only plays on the fears of dentists but also of Nazi War Criminals who got away and those who hunt them down with a CIA and FBI twist with betrayals along the way. Dustin Hoffman at this time was basking in the glory glow of his success of Midnight Cowboy.  Fact: Dustin accidentally was almost murdered in making of  this movie because he wanted the drowing scene to look as real as possible by demanding that that hold him under as long as possible and he did many of his own charecter's stunts but had a stand in for some of the more dangerous ones.

The location of this complex action movie takes place in New York City in Central Park, the city itself, as well as Columbia University and the Grad students apartment There are other out of city locations that include a lonely farmhouse. The movie story tells the tale of graduate student (Dustin Hoffman) working on his Doctorate degree at Columbia University along with the fact that  his academic advisors know his parents and were in some cases very good friends of theirs. This relationship unstated  fact that Dustin's charecter will graduate with his Doctorate degree simply because his father was a great intellectual and their friends.  IT is aalso a  vaguely hidden story variation of the Rosenburg children whose parents were executed for spying for Russia circa 1950(upon which also Angels in America is also based) as well as making use of Alfred Hitchcock's Classic movie 'Psycho' complete with variant shower scene except the victim is male and the predator is male and the playing up of a a sociopathic killer aka the Nazi Dentist.
Fact:The Rosenburg  Children have always believed that their parents were innocent but have had  difficulty proving that but records, in both the US and Russia,if true, seem to indicate that they were very guilty. Movie Fiction: Due to a mistaken identity situation or confusing the graduate sttudent with another similar name---he gets mixed up with an Nazi war criminal (played by Sir Lawrence Olivier--one of his last films before dying) and a Jewish Diamond merchant who maintains a bank vault in which he keeps diamonds and other valuables.  Thanks to driving an old clunker---a spectacular fire and explosion takes place when the Jewish Merchant gets into a road rage situation that leaves the victim and the outraged road rager dead. The plot thickens from there in which the Nazi comes into ownership of the diamonds and gets the grad student involved. Unkownst to the grad student his brother is very deeply involved in the entire plot but as result is killed off but dies in the Grad student's apartment.

It makes use of a TV series Fantasy Island set's crows nest of the 1970s as the hide out for the Nazi criminal who is later recognized by a concentration victim---who screams STOP HIM STOP HIM! This being New York most people are aloof and ignore her or think she is some crazy lady and he goes free.

The Movie ends inside the New York Waterwork near the Carillon in Central Park into which over a million dollars of diamonds are tosed into the drinking water of New Yorkers. Each man gets his due but we are not told if Hoffman's charecter ever gets his Phd although it is hinted that he does or will through a rather corrupt buddy buddy academic professor scheme of who you know but he does get his woman.
This review has barely scratched the surface so see the movie--it is one of the finer thrillers of the 1970s.