I thought it was a decent/good movie overall.  Some parts were totally ridiculous and I couldnt piece together a couple of details/was a bit confused.  Some parts were great.  I love when they devote a couple of minutes to just showing him doing his Muay Thai moves (like minutes into the start of Ong Bak 1 and about 57 minutes into Ong Bak 3): both impressive skill-wise, and delicious visually.  Although this version was not exactly action packed, it did have enough action for me (I like lots of action in such movies...preferably around every corner).  It did seem like the action scenes were more...fake-looking than in the other movies of his that I've seen.
I only recently learned of the name Tony Jaa, but in a moment, I was a fan.  I have seen all 3 Ong Bak movies, and The Protector.  I recommend The Protector if you liked Ong Bak 1 (they both have a few dumb/silly incidents and lots of action).
I rate the movies as follows:

1st place: Ong Bak 1 and The Protector (I didn't love how - for the most part - Ong Bak made the city people out to be bad, without morals, ruled by money and the rural people out to be good, giving, making risky decisions only for the sake of their God...and how naive Tien was.  Ip Man (doesnt feature Jaa) was a great movie as well!

2nd: Ong Bak 3 (at the end of the movie, was it him thrusting that stick down that somehow caused lightning or was it "the Gods"?  The magical/spiritual part at the end was a bit cool and enchanting, but also a bit of a turn off since I leave my movie-trance when something utterly impossible or stupid happens.  Surprisingly, I found the crazy/mentally-ill guy pretty entertaining.  Unlike another reviewer, I didnt feel too jaded by his recovery process.  I felt he progressed at a decent enough pace for the movie and I'm sure that the person who said he was "whining" about his disability would have handled being beaten up, losing loved ones, and losing one of the main skills/things that made them feel valuable as a person - much better than he handled it).

3rd: Ong Bak 2 (why wasnt "The Beginning" Ong Bak 1?? lol  Oh, and the jumping back and forward in time annoyed me a bit.  I was also uncertain as to whether Ong Bak 2 incidents occurred prior to the stuff in 1..but I guess not.  I think this is the one where he does the bird dance in front of the King.  Am I the only one who thought, for just a second, that the dangling cloth at the end of the woman's dance was her leg?  I was like "What's wrong with her foot??").

It seems that all of these movies have poor/scant character developement, so it's harder for me to really get into it, other than loving to watch him do Martial Arts.  Make sure you all search hard before buying movies (not that I dont love Amazon)...you can find almost any title somewhere online for free, but sometimes without subtitles.