The Who performed at the 3rd Isle of Wight Festival only a few months after recording a live album called "Live at Leeds".  The Leeds concert was one of the greatest rock concerts ever held... This was better.  The Who took the stage in the early morning and rampaged through many fan favorites and Tommy.  For those who want the complete Isle of Wight, get the CD set; it is incredable.  But as great as it is to listen to the Who, to see them is something much higher.  This DVD is incredible, the sound quality is imaculate and the video is amazing for the documentary standards of 1970.  Where this DVD falls short is that it presents the set out of order by stacking all of the non-Tommy songs at the front.  There are massive cut ups of songs like "My Generation", "Magic Bus", "Overture", "Twist and Shout", and smaller cuts, but they are very noticable.  Unlike the CD set, the DVD is out of order and lacks some of the great performances of the Who's set: "1921", "Amazing Journey", "Sparks", "Substitute", and "Smash the Mirror".

Other than these cut outs, this DVD is amazing, forget the fact that some of the music from the night was lost.  The stage leaps, windmills, and guitar feedback from Pete is incredible.  Keith Moon's drumming is as crazy as ever and at his peak.  Numerous times, he launches drumsticks over 25 feet up in the air; catching ever single one.  Keith's antics are as hilarious as ever.  Roger swings the microphone so fast at one point that you can hear a swirling sound.  John Entwistle.  God Rest His Soul.  The greatest Bass Guitar of all-time.  His bassline is as strong as I have ever heard it.  His growling vocals as 'The Boss and the Congressman' in "Summertime Blues" is a must hear and my favorite.  What's better, John is wearing a costume with white skeleton bones all over it.

As The Who burst into "See Me, Feel Me" they drenched the audience with very bright floodlights to simulate what the sun had done for them at Woodstock.

This is a must own for any Who fan and most rock fans.