I remember seeing this film in the early 70's as a child and will never forget the experience. It was playing at a revival house, on a double bill with another film, and this one (not the film I was going there to see, by the way) carried me away so much that I cannot remember what film was paired with it. Since then I adored this enchanting fantasy epic. Upon seeing it again as an adult I was expecting to be disappointed (most of what we loved as children tends to pale as we get older), but I was not, in fact, I think I adore this charming concoction of tenderness, humour, fantastic situations and great musical numbers even more now than I did then.
And that leads me to my opening question: why do critics hate this film? I have never heard or read any professional critic say a good word about this film, in fact, it's on many critics' "worst films of all time" lists, and even popped up in that bible of bad cinema, Medved's "Golden Turkey Awards" book. I could never figure this out. Perhaps too many critics compare it to "Mary Poppins" and find it wanting. Surely, a temptation to do so is overwhelming, seeing as it popped up in that stream of (mostly poor) Poppins immitations that followed in the wake of Poppins' incredible box office and critical success, it stars Dick Van Dyke and features a score by the Sherman Brothers, songwriters for the Disney classic. But, while this film is certainly no Poppins, a comparison with the earlier film is unfair. Ian Fleming fans, of course, dislike the film because it bears little or no relation to the book (the screenplay by Roald Dahl was, to my own childlike imagination, however, fare more enjoyable - I found the book disappointing after viewing the film, unusual for me). But I will always cherish this film, its score, Dick Van Dyke's genius, Sally Ann Howes' charm, and Dahl's fantastic screenplay. I would recommend any parent to share this film with their children to show them what great fantasy ffamily film-making was like in the late sixties and early seventies.
However, a wide-screen issue would be most appreciated.