I'm saying this now because I absolutely believe it to be true: Kung Fu Panda is not only the best new movie I've seen this year - it's easily one of the best animated films of all time.

I'm not one to give out glowing praise often to, well, anything...but in the case of Kung Fu Panda, I have to say this is a movie without flaws. I'm not lying here - I cannot think of one thing that needs to be even tweaked in the slightest. It has the perfect mix of comedy, action and serious bits to make you wonder exactly how one film could get so many things right!

The movie, starring Jack Black, revolves around a rather tubby panda's accidental encounter with his idols - the world's five most legendary Kung Fu masters. Po the panda has dreamt about being a Kung Fu master himself but his father has plans for him to take over his noodle shop because "broth flows through their veins." When Po gets a chance to become the Dragon Warrior, he doesn't turn the offer down. The Kung Fu master believes in him, even if Poe doesn't think he can...but that proves enough to help him fulfill his destiny.

One of Kung Fu Panda's greatest strengths is its originality in storytelling - it avoids pretty much every common animated (or heck, even standard action/comedy flick) cliche you can think of. You won't find any wise-cracking sidekicks, songs that pop out of nowhere, poop humor, jabs at movies/modern-day stuff or even a romance twist. The movie is made purely out of amazingly polished animation and witty, fast-paced humor. Even Jack Black comes across as someone everyone can enjoy (he's often an actor that polarizes viewers) thanks to a script that allows him to be himself but also know his boundaries for the story's sake. Now granted, no movie made now is going to be 100% "new" but Kung Fu Panda is certainly unique in its presentation and entertainment value.

I must congratulate Dreamworks on an amazing job in regards to the animation and editing in this film. The sheer level of detail in every shot is amazing and if I were Pixar, I would be very worried about this movie because it is every bit as good as Toy Story (Pixar's best film). It truly has something for everyone and, despite its cartoony setting, has a very grown-up story to tell about sticking to your goals and learning life's path doesn't follow a straight line. Even in the Dreamworks family of animated films, Kung Fu Panda is in a class of its own (Shrek doesn't even come close).

Like I said earlier, there simply isn't anything wrong with this amazing film. The visuals are the best I've seen yet in a cartoon (thanks to amazing editing and choreographed action sequences), the voice acting is suberb (Dustin Hoffman in particular is excellent) and the sound is terrific (the oriental and action music blend perfectly). Most importantly, Kung Fu Panda is simply fun from beginning to end with nothing in it that might become dated or feel boring after repeated viewings. This will surely stand the test of time when compared against the true classics of animated films.

If people making films - live action and animated - even took a glance at Kung Fu Panda to see how a movie should be made, the world of cinema would be a much better place.