The first thing to say about this absolutely splendid 100-minute film is to completely ignore the write-up and cover photo--both of which give the impression that this is some sort of light, half-baked Hollywood-style romantic comedy.  In fact, it is anything but! 
Set in a coal-mining town in the North of England in the early 90s, this is an enlightening and moving British comedy-drama (with the emphasis on drama) centering around the men from the local colliery, whose lives have been turned upside down and forever changed by the decision to close the mine.  The men, their lives, and their relationships with one another are revealed through an interest they have in common--the colliery's brass band.  Now that the mine is closing, the band is likely to be the next casualty.  For one thing, money's tight and the men cannot afford the dues.  But there is one man, Danny (played magnificently by Pete Postlethwaite--Sharpe's Odediah), for whom the band is more than just a casual interest--it's his life, his raison d'etre.  He simply cannot imagine an existence without the band. 
This is truly a first-rate film, and as with most British productions, there is not one performance that is anything less than perfect.  The film features Tara Fitzgerald (The Woman in White), a newcomer who joins the band, but unbeknownst to the men is working for management at the mine.  Though the entire cast is wonderful, it is really Postlethwaite, who gives an Oscar-worthy performance as Danny, the band's leader and conductor, that really makes this film sparkle.  And I simply must mention Stephen Tompkinson (Ballykissangel's Father Clifford), who gives an outstanding performance as Phil, Danny's son.
The other thing worth mentioning about this film is the music.  The words "brass band" tend to conjur up pictures of marching bands.  What we have here, however, is in essence the brass section of a symphony orchestra.  While there is the odd march performed, by and large the selection of music played are among the most familiar and loveliest of classic pieces--Londonderry Air, Land of Hope and Glory, Rossini's William Tell Overture, and most beautiful of all, Rodrigo's En Aranjuez con tu Amor (what Danny calls the "orange juice concerto"!).  As for the performance (by an actual colliery band)--it is simply breathtaking.
In conclusion, I highly, highly recommend this well-written and consummately-acted film to anyone looking for quality entertainment.  Certainly, if you've enjoyed other films dealing with the plight of miners or factory workers in the North of England of the last two decades--films like Billy Elliot or The Full Monty, for example--this one's a must see.