...that a movie about magicians that didn't include the how to "make the salt shaker disappear" trick would be so good?  One might call me the magic movie aficionado as the last "magic" movie that I watched was called "The Magic Video" and was given to me by my Aunt Grace when I was 10.

Acting/Plot:
Cutter (played by Michael Caine) describes every magic trick as having three distinct parts; the pledge (a promise made by the magician to do something amazing), the turn (the illusion part of the trick that is unusual and counterintuitive), and the prestige (the shocking climax that makes the second part of the trick the illusion).  The movie's plot seems to follow this theory to a tee.
The movie begins with the murder of a magician.  Through a flashback, you learn of two magicians's (Bale and Jackman) who grow from apprentices to full blow headliners competing with each other along the way.  The competition becomes all enveloping with each trying to outdo the other with bigger and better illusions.  Eventually, the magicians completely outdo one another in what some might call "the prestige" of the movie itself (don't worry, no spoilers here...hopefully).  It's an interesting exercise to compare the actual theatrical illusions the magicians perform in their acts with the "tricks" that they play on one another.  Some of these loose comparisons seem to follow the original premise of the 3 distinct trick parts.  The multiple intermingling of "tricks" and their parts is brilliant.  The cast does a great job of telling the story.  For some reason, Bale's English accent annoyed me and seemed to vary in strength from time to time.

Conversion/Blu-ray:
[...] The ratings applied for video and audio are 5/5 and 4/5 stars respectively.  My eyes and ears are not finely tuned, but the picture is spectacular and the audio is incredible.  Lines are smooth and the overall tones are dark, but highly defined.  The level of detail in some sections of the movie was mind-boggling.  At one point I had to pause, fast forward, and catch up.  The movie just moved quicker without losing any quality in either picture or sound.  Imagine that?!  I might just have to watch all of my movies on fast forward to save time!

Overall I really like this movie and have already recommended it to my some friends.  On the cover of the case is a quote, "You'll want to see it again the second it's over".  It's completely true.