The US is a country that has a proud record of democracy and personal freedom. Americans cherish that at home. They also work hard and are very successful economically.

This all tends to make them look inward and rejoice in their own sucessful society. In the process they rarely take time and trouble to check what the organs (many times secret - like the CIA) of their state does outside their borders (in their name). Sometimes what those organs do in other countries are in contradiction to the freedoms and human rights that Americans so cherish at home - and evangelise as universal truths.

Sometimes these two realities overlay in a situation.

Like in the situation wherein this movie takes place

Missing plays out against the background of the "other" 9/11 - when the US helped to organise a bloody coup against the democratically elected government of Chili on 9 Sept 1973 and helped to replace the socialist govt of Salvador Allende with the dictatorial military regime of genl Augusto Pinochet.

This movie is about a patriotic, hard working US man looking for his son who went missing in the violence surrounding that coup in Chili.

He is in the process confronted with a state organ transgressing in another country all that is for him holy in democratic freedom at home. It is argued at one point by US State dept officials in the movie that it must be done to enable him to enjoy those freedoms "at home".

But the price for him was his son's life. Is it worth it? What is the worth of freedom at home when it is bought with fascism and death in another country? Can it not be achieved without this?

Missing stops short of asking these questions because the story runs with the actions of the father (Jack Lemmon) and he does not (did not? - the story is based on fact) ask those questions. He does not try to resolve those contradictions that to this day bedevils the moral base of US foreign policy.

In that it is a good movie, however. It stays true to it's journalistic style that merely lays bare the facts and the situation and does not overtly moralise about it.

And in the end, it is the the Americans watching it that must answer those questions.