"Silverado" was the first western movie I have seen and let me tell you, I was puzzled. If all western movies are that boring and confusing, then I am not  wateing my time watching another western movie again. First of all, the soundtrack was so loud, I couldn't hear what the people were saying. Since this is the first time I ever watched a western movie, I guess the selections of the music was ok. Second,  there was too many characters and problems involed that my brain couldn' t  keep up to the movie. Since I couldn't hear what the characters were saying, I couldn't find any quotes that the characters said. The only thing I remeber was that this one guy said, " All I did was kiss a girl." That's all I remember and understood form the movie!!!
  But I do have to give the movie "Silverado" some credit. For the people who enjoy watching western movies that  includes gun fighting and action, "Silverado" has many of those things. There were many gun shooting scenes that took me by suprise. Personally, I dont like guns. I think they cause death and is very dangerous, ESPECIALLY when smeone insane or evil is holding one.
  I don't find western movies that exciting because it is the guns itself that turns me off.  To me, I think what blows a movie is if people talk with a high vocabulary, there is too much talking with not much action , or too much action with not much talking. It should be balanced and Silverado had a little too much action and and unclear voice.
  I saw some costumes/ equiptment that made "Silverado" have a good/ bad western scene. First of all, the outfits were a little out of date, but I guess that was ok, considering it is a western movie. Second the background was great, except it made me thirsty when I saw the sand/ desert. The guns, saloons, and the houses was a great addition for the equiptments. Overall, it was good.
  To me personally, I like a thriller or a comedy movie. I wasn't really raised in an enviroment with people who enjoy watching western movies, so this is a change for me. In any movie, it should have a balance of  some funny comments, some romance or any obsession of some sort.  ( example :  in " Lord of the Rings" , the ring is the obsession). The last thing is that a good movie should have is some thrill to it.  what I am trying to say is that  "Silverado" didn't catch my attention.
  So in these ways,  "Silverado was boring to a girl who enjoys a thriller/comedy than a western movie. But for all you western lovers out there who is reading this, PLEASE keep watching western movies. Listen to your gut feeling, not me.