At last, after so many years we can finaly enjoy "The fall of the roman empire" with a new restored print in sound and picture quality.

The package design looks okay from Weinstein but why don't they use the original movie poster, is still beyond me,just like "El-Cid".

I have some comments on this long awaited dvd. The running time is not 179 min. but 188 min. Recently they found in London (United Kingdom) 30 min of never been seen scene's by anyone, so the duration of the picture will be longer then its 188 min. I sincerely hope that Weinstein put those lost scenes in, that will be a real treat! The film was shot in Ultra Panavision which has a different aspect ratio then 2:35.1. So they properly use a Cinemascope print 35 mm for the film transfer (bad idea) to dvd instead of using a 65 mm print.

The picture gives us a good look how the fall of the roman empire took place, however they made the mistake earlier just like "gladiator" of some historical facts. For example: Emperor Commodus was killed in his bed and his sister Lucilla was also a monster just like him, not a sweet lady as Sophia Loren portrays

The acting of all the actors is good but Christopher Plummer steals the picture before our very eyes. He indeed becomes very slowly mad when the picture is in progress.

The sets and costumes are very impressive, I have a lot of epic films on dvd but this one (after some considaration) should have an Oscar on both subjects. The saddest thing is they did'nt win any of those.

The only set back of this movie is the love affair between Stephen Boyd and Sophia Loren, when you watch them together you will get the feeling there is something missing in those scene's.

Forget those love scene's between those two actors and enjoy the rest of movie like the very good camera work, the fighting scenes by the second unit director the late Yakima Canutt, ( the battle scene's between the Romans and Persians becomes almost real no special effects shot's at all whatsoever) the music of Dimitri Tiomkin, the sets, and the costumes.

My only fear is that the Entr'act does'nt start to play after the intermission logo, and when the music ends we all have to put the second disc on the dvd disc tray to see the the rest of the movie, just as it happened with the El-Cid disc's.

Anyway: for those who love epic films buy this one and I hope you will enjoy the sight of it.