Having just watched this movie I have to add my impressions of it to the chorus of reviews here. Like much of the feedback I felt disappointed. But I had such high expectations if only based on what I thought was a great concept...space probe returning to Earth has a couple of hitchhikers along for the ride that, once on this planet (in Latin America to be specific), begin to grow and reproduce. The story then takes place 6 years after this event with the two main characters having to navigate through the "infected zone" to return to America and, presumably, safety. Clearly shot on a budget this film does evoke the same "feel" that Cloverfield did for me (although mercifully without the jiggly camera thing of that film). I loved the character development aspect of this film as we watch the two tasked with making their way north and in the process getting to know each other. I agree too with one of the previous viewers here who stated this was a wonderful component to the film in that these chracters carried the story rather than the special effects being tasked with that. But where this movie truly drops the ball is in its title and in the Monsters themselves. Once again as stated in the previous reviews here, the monsters really only make a brief appearance at the beginning of the film and then at the end. For the middle 90% of the movie they are largely absent beyond a few noises emanating from the forest or a tentacle or two emerging from the fog. Plus what appears at the beginning of the film as fairly malevolent creatures bent on destruction are at the end merely giant gentle mating octopi. And finally the ending itself is as abrupt and unsatisfying (and confusing) as you're likely to find in film these days. It just ends...no closure, no big finale, no nothing. So the great strength of this film, the two main characters and the way their relationship has evolved is diminished because you're left with a utter sense of, "what just happened?" I just wish I could more strongly recommend this film. But in the end it is a let down.