After spending the rest of the week with outdated horror films, it was good to experience something with more artistic intent.

Friends with Money was a film I desperately wanted to see in theaters but missed. Thankfully, Netflix has it now.

Here it is: we've got four of the most talented actresses in Hollywood (Jennifer Aniston, Frances McDormand, Joan Cusack, and Catherine Keener) cast as four long time friends who have all, with the exception of Olivia (Aniston) gotten married and become rather wealthy. Jane (the brilliant McDormand) is a fashion designer who's husband may or may not be gay. Franny (Cusak) is a incredibly wealthy, but I don't remember why. And Christine (Keener) is an overly sensitive playwright who's marriage is terribly unhappy.

Olivia used to be a high school teacher but has quit and become a maid. This, of course, causes great stress to the others--they don't understand where Olivia is in life (and, frankly, neither does Olivia). She's poor, unhappy, and unattached.

Jane is going through the pre-menopausal hormone shifts, and has slowly come to realize that this is it: she can't wonder what her life will be like because she's already in it. So she quits washing her hair.

Franny keeps giving money to charity, and tries to set up Olivia with her personal trainer. The strange thing about Franny is that she's genuinely happy. Or, at the very least, not unhappy.

And Christine is slowly coming to understand that her marriage has never been useful. On top of that, the remodeling they've begun on their home has turned their neighbors against them, and Christine can't figure out why.

I'm not really going to go much into details past that. What I'm going to do is tell you this: the film is brilliant. Writer/Director Nicole Holofcener has crafted a perfectly genuine and truthful series of interactions between a close group of women, and touchingly chronicles their ongoing dilemmas. The cast (including the male half) is astounding at capturing exactly what lies at the core of these characters, and each fragmented scene peels yet another layer from the skin of the film to show the beating heart of the whole enterprise.

Never once do you disbelieve what's going on in the film, from a bizarre occurrence with one of the characters to the characters themselves: this film never once crosses the boundary that removes films from us. Rather, this film creates a forth wall so strong and sturdy that, for once, we believe in what we're seeing.

And that's a fairly rare thing.