Just finished watching THE WALL on DVD.  And it was quite good.
Firstly, as all of you know it is presented in widescreen, which afforded me a view of those sights that were previously hidden in the pan and scan full frame  version.  The picture is very clear, with only a trace of those pubic hair  like things every now and then.  To my slight dismay, I got a digital pixel  blip that I have never experienced with my DVD player.  It was near the  beginning and did not reappear to my knowledge.
The sound is wonderful.  I don't have a huge sound set up in my living room, but my TV does have  surround sound and I thought it was a dramatic improvement over the VHS.  Although I've listened to these songs more times than what's probably  considered healthy, they almost sounded like brand new songs.
The running  commentary track with Roger Waters and animator Gerald Scarfe was extremely  entertaining.  Not only did Waters and Scarfe discuss bits of film trivia,  but they also wax a fair amount of philosophic.  In places Waters  reminisces at length about his childhood and while some of it is stuff  we've read or heard in past interviews, it's still fascinating. Scarfe, of  course, talks mostly about the animation, but his commentary is engaging as  well.  Oh, and there are moments in the commentary that are very, very  funny.  I was unprepared for this and almost laughed myself to tears at  some of his comments.  While the film itself might be very grim stuff,  Waters himself is extremely witty with a gut busting sense of  humor.
There are two documentaries on the DVD.  The first one looks old  and appears to have been made shortly after the movie.  I only watched half  of it as it was a trifle repetitive, filling in alot of screen time with  clip after clip from the movie itself.  The second documentary, divided  into two parts for some reason, is alot better.  It looks quite recent and  features lengthy interviews of Roger Waters, Gerald Scarfe, Alan Parker,  and others.  All of them are very fun to listen to.  Being a fan of Waters,  I naturally liked his interviews best.  Unlike other persons in the rock n  roll industry, Roger Waters on film is sort of a rarity.  It was neat to  see him talking and telling stories.
Among the extra bonus features on  the DVD is the inclusion of the previously unreleased HEY YOU reel.  While  it's in black and white and the sound is somewhat raw, it is a welcome  addition to the DVD.  After watching this footage, it was clearer to me  why, of all songs, this one was deleted and why I never really missed it.  I can see how it would have made the narrative bog down a little.
Next in  the list of bonus features is a crude music video for ANOTHER BRICK IN THE  WALL PART II.  In the commentary,  I believe it is Gerald Scarfe who says  that when this song was first released as a single, a video was hastily put  together using animation from the WALL live shows along with some footage  of kids milling about and lip synching the words.  It looks like an  extremely early MTV video, shot on a budget of about fifty dollars.
The  third bonus feature, titled PROMO, takes you to another menu where you can  watch the trailer, look at still production photos (some of which I have  never seen), or leaf through a gallery of conceptual drawings and artwork  by Gerald Scarfe.
The menus are interesting at first but get tedious once  you've had to sit through them a time or two.  It is clear that time and  care went into their design, but certain menus are bordering on cheesy,  particular the one for sound set up, in which the selections look like red  pie plates for some reason.  I would have loved to see some clips of live  WALL footage as a bonus feature but with all that WAS included, I can't  complain.  Except for the design on the DVD case.  I think people will  agree with me that the original blue screaming head on the old VHS box and  movie poster was a more classic looking design.
Aside from those tiny  gripes, this is a top notch DVD.