I just returned from a cinema screening of this performance, and by God, i dare say that this staging moved me more than many live musicals i've ever watched. As someone once rightly put it, Ramin Karimloo as Phantom is indeed a force of nature. His performance had me sobbing in my seat; every word, every breath, every note from this man was pure magic and pure emotion. I have not and will not ever see a better Phantom. I was lucky enough to see him in Love Never Dies at London's Adelphi Theatre and he is electrifying in both shows. Sierra Boggess, sounding equally strong and gorgeous in her lowest and highest registers, is also the best Christine i've ever seen - a perfect fit for the character in looks and voice and personality. Both invested so much emotion into their performances that you can clearly see Sierra tearing during "Music of the Night". Of course, i cannot leave out Hadley Fraser as Raoul. This is a character that i've often seen portrayed either by actors who look a little too old or those who make Raoul appear a little too naive/innocent. To me, Raoul is a subtly intelligent character with a hint of arrogance, and who is fierce, and even reckless, when provoked, and Hadley Fraser nailed it in his singing and acting. Special mention goes to Keira Duffy as Carlotta, who was suitably and comically snide without over-acting.

Even though i didn't watch this live, the performances were so spectacular that their brilliance still shone through, with the help of pretty good cinematography/camera-work. I really felt like i could've been right there in Royal Albert Hall. I felt that the significance in the feeling and meaning of the story was preserved, as the cameras certainly were not shy about going up close and personal with the actors on stage. Granted you will see things that might not be obvious if you were in the audience, e.g., a few incidences of obvious sweating, maybe even leading to running make-up, but to me, that didn't take anything away from this performance at all.

This DVD would be a worthwhile investment, an example of the best in arts and culture preserved for your keeping. I'm definitely getting myself one!