I can't even imagine how to put how bad this movie is into words.  I'll try.  Let me start by saying that I never saw it coming.  The trailer looked good enough.  The movie started out ok, with a little too long intro/back story with some interesting CG work that was obviously made to spoof the old Japanese monster movies (or the Power Rangers for you kiddos reading this review).  After that, things went downhill... and fast.  There was so little effort made to connect you to the present day hero/heroine that you never cared about whether they ever lived or died.  Even my kids agreed.  The CG dragons, even the little ones, were all made realistically enough.  But that in no way makes up for how awful the storyline was.  Some are saying to watch this movie for the CG dragons.  Please trust me that it is totally NOT worth it.  If you must, rent it, skip to the last battle scene, watch that and that alone, and save yourself any effort to painfully sit through this thing.

End of my review

Now, for the play by play.  You by no means have to read this as it contains some big spoilers, but here goes...

My emotions throughout this movie were:  1)Initial curiosity 2)Wait for the story 3)still waiting 4)Present day comes and... Initial fears that this is all the story we're getting 5)What the heck was that?  Was that supposed to be a fight scene outside the bar?  Oh, please don't tell me this is the indicator of the level of action sequences we're going to get 6)Camera man friend of the reporter makes a couple of deadpan remarks that make me think there may be some redeeming value to the movie coming up at some point 7)stomach drops as I realize suddenly that there will be no redeeming value to this movie 8)my face melts off from the anguish boiling up inside me 9)confusion sets in... and again... and again... and again... 10)Please let the main characters just die so this movie will end now 11)YES THEY DIED! 12)Yes, I knew they couldn't have possibly died, but I was sure hoping.  Ok, I've made it this far, I can watch this ending action sequence 12)Hey, cool battle... except why suddenly does this cave look like it is outside?  oh, wait, the dragons look the same.  Which one is which?  What is going on?  Wha...  13)It's over.  Whatever.  Let me just turn it off and grab something for the indigestion I now have.