Luhrmann's film is a modernised and very effective remake of the original Zeffirelli film.  The story of Romeo and Juliet, written by William Shakespeare, has now been shunted into a whole new dimension.  The original story is a thoroughly depressing tragedy, where two people from opposing families fall in love.  They get married in secret but after Romeo kills Juliet's cousin for stabbing his best friend.  He flees and Juliet's father tries to force her to marry another person she has hardly even talked to.  However to avoid this she fakes her death by drinking a sleeping potion.  Romeo comes back to find her `dead', and kills himself.  She wakes up, finds him dead next to her and stabs herself.  The grim reaper has his hands full with this one.

This film illustrates this story effectively, although to bring it into a modern setting, some clever changes have had to be made.  The beginning chorus is now narrated by a newsreader which I feel was a flash of inspiration as it is a brilliant way round having to have a narrator and sets the scene to the style of the film.  Some of the characters also have been updated to fit with the modern setting.  The Prince is now Chief Prince who is the sheriff of the city.  Also the two families are equally successful businesses with equal tower offices with equally huge signs with their respective names on the top.  All of these changes however help to make the film considerably more plausible in a modern setting.

Some very clever camera angles and shots are used to create a western style showdown, at a downtown petrol station.  Guns, of course, are switched from swords in the updating process, meaning that fight scenes would be a lot shorter if it weren't for Luhrmann's imagination.  Clever close-ups show the guns actually have names that would have been given to swords, an interesting bit of comedy to fit the story line.  Of course the show-off gun spinning and throwing goes with the western showdown, but fast camera shots give the whole sequence incredible speed.  This also adds a little comic effect, if it doesn't make you dizzy!  The sequence also has excellent background sound that really contributes to the pace and style of it.  The Zeffirelli edition had shockingly dressed people prancing around in psychedelic tights, poking each other with pathetic swords, whereas this version is infinitely more polished and acceptable to a modern audience.  Thankfully Zeffirelli's dreadful costumes have been dropped in place of even brighter Hawaiian shirts and gun holsters.  This fight soon turns into a full city riot thanks to the petrol station getting torched.

After a few sweeping skyline shots showing the urban landscape of the city and the towers, the film presentation turns into a news item about the incident showing Chief Prince swooping down in his chopper and saving the day.  Then both heads-of-house are given a dressing down by Chief Prince.  However this seems to have one fatal flaw.  The Chief warns them `on pain of death' which seems unrealistic, as the death penalty these days is saved for only the worst criminals, not squabbling families.  Also he would need to go through months of legal proceedings.  Zeffirelli gives the Prince a lot more authority in his version as the camera is pointing up to him on his horse from below.  However, Luhrmann loses this effect by pointing the camera straight at him on the level with him sat down at a desk.  Zeffirelli must have chosen the heaviest horse for the Prince he could find for this sequence because when it moves, the sound of its hooves drowns out the Prince.  All you need is it to be sufficiently ugly and the ground to shake and Godzilla's back in town

Later in the film we come to the famous balcony scene, of which through most the balcony is nowhere to be seen as the swimming pool seems to have been cast for that part instead.  Romeo abandons his party of drugged up and drunk friends and proceeds to break in to the Capulet mansion which, given their status, has surprisingly low security.  He arrives in the pool area and hears the door opening.  Leaping on to the trellis next to it in a tacky suit of armour from the party, making a ridiculous amount of noise, he manages to stay out of sight of Juliet as she comes out.  She then starts to talk to herself as per the first sign of insanity.  Romeo eases his way off the trellis and follows her, behind her back about an inch away.  This is totally unbelievable as at that distance she would definitely know he was there.  Plus his head was practically resting on her shoulder.  I just hope for her sake he has not got bad breath.  When he speaks to her, she leaps out of her skin and grabs him, and the resulting scream and splash into the swimming pool is just sheer comedy.  The camera zooms out just in time to see both lovers plummet into the pool.  Then he does a bit of explaining as to why he was hiding there and they seem to get on fine thereafter.  To emphasize the urgency of the situation the camera switches between the two rapidly.  Then the nurse comes out and calls for Juliet, who rudely proceeds to drown Romeo until she goes away.  Not bad for a first date.  Zeffirelli just has the sound of the nurse calling whereas I feel seeing her is far more interesting and engaging.  Romeo then begs for a kiss and wanders off.  Zeffirelli does this sequence far better having Romeo running through the trees with the camera flying alongside him with the trees in zipping past in front of him, although everybody watching is wishing for a tree to take out either the camera or Romeo.  Surprisingly Luhrmann had Juliet in a fairly modest dress in this scene whereas Zeffirelli's was probably arrestably revealing at that time.

Luhrmann has done a brilliant job on this film updating it and presenting it to the modern audience.  The setting of the film is in an excellent location to portray the film, with scenes that fit with every aspect of the play.  He has used music in this play very well to compliment the scenes, whereas Zeffirelli's drowned out the characters and was just too distracting.  The only criticism of the play I have is that I find the language is harder to understand for a modern audience and so does not fit with the modern setting.  However if it was updated I am sure the play would be considerably shortened given Shakespeare's wonderful talent of fabricating the dialogue to a ridiculous extent.  Also it would ruin the character of the play and some of the effect would be lost.  The actors interact with each other very well in this film and show friendship and hate far better than Zeffirelli, who had Tybalt just aimlessly smiling at everybody for no apparent reason.  On the whole the film is a fabulous adaptation of one of Shakespeare's greatest plays