This is a great movie showing the inside of the corrupt and really crazy world of Hollywood. Only De Niro could have made this movie. Nobody can touch him.

The movie follows a producer (Ben) during two weeks before the Cannes festival (we definitely need to pay attention what the Europeans say, because they are more ...distinguished and they definitely have more class than the poor slobs of Americans). He is really on the run and his families (yes he has more than one) are falling apart. He is trying to change the end of a movie that at first doesn't appear to connect with the audience selected to prescreen the movie (reminds me the worthless focus groups that the candidates are using during the elections). All these people participating in the focus groups that supposedly represent the average Joe are selected according to the same (Hollywood) criteria. Therefore they NEVER represent the average Joe. Because it is all about the money!

After seeing this movie I understand why movies like "October Baby", "Touchback", and the soon to come out "Last Ounce of Courage" among others, can only be purchased from WalMart and they are nowhere to be found on Amazon or on Best Buy. When you have a drug addict, degenerate director that insists that blowing the head of a dog is art, then you understand why these people have really short life span and they have to be medicated. Usually, what most directors of Hollywood regard as art and deep philosophy in their movie is usually pure garbage with the exception of few (i.e. Tom Hanks, Clint Eastwood, Francis Ford-Coppola, and Martin Scorsese among others). Because it is all about the money!

Then there is Bruce Willis and his beard as a side story. That is a great satire of the divas in Hollywood that have temper tantrums (Lohan, Hilton etc). Great parody. The scene when everybody waits for him and we see him sideways in the trailer is fantastic.  Because it is all about the money!

And finally, there is the therapist. In the movie they appear exactly like they are in real life...totally worthless! Because it is all about the money!

Make sure you watch the extras; there is more to the movie in the extras. Even Kristen Stewart looks good in this movie because ...she is playing herself.

Don't listen to the naysayers. Five stars all the way because of the cast and because it is REAL folks. I guess people who don't like the movie don't like what they see in the mirror. The truth hurts.