Ok...so basically most of you reading these reviews, most likely already know the plot of the story. If not, here goes: Fifteen years after shutting done his factory, Willy Wonka invites the public by means of inserting 5 golden tickets in random packages of chocolate bars. Whoever, gets the golden ticket is entitled to bring 1 person with them. The first winner is Augustus Gloop who had a sure shot at winning the ticket since he eats so much candy (that he inadvertantly bit into the golden ticket as he was eating a candy bar, then we have Veruca Salt who is obnoxious as ever and won by means of her "daddy dearest" buying up boxes of the sweet chocolately goodness and having the nut shellers at his factory rip open candy wrappers until they found the golden ticket. Then, we have Mike Teavee who does just that, watches tv and plays video games. He actually managed to crack the system and figured out how to get the winning ticket, only bought 1 candy bar and insists that he doesnt even LIKE chocolate. Next is Violet Beauregard, self proclaimed "champion gum chewer" (who's got a trophy and many others to show for it) who decided that when she heard about the golden tickets, would temporarily switch to chocolate and was determined to win. Then we have Charlie (who we get introduced to early on in the film as a sweet boy who lives in a tiny home with his 4 grandparents and his parents. He happened to win the final golden ticket by chance soon after it was announced that a fifth winner turned out to be a hoax. We then see the kids go to the factory on the next day and one by one (excluding charlie) meet their fate in a fitting manner. This one was different in a few points from the gene wilder version , but it was great just the same. This time around, wonka was still creepy but more so in a way that brings a disturbing image of michael jackson to mind. (maybe its the pasty skin,i dont know? but depp was great anyway). charlie was just as sweet as the original kid who played him, violet looks like a younger version of mary kate and ashley with her wide eyes (cute kid and was believable for the role), veruca is still obnoxious, however the orginal veruca did better for the role, augustus gloop, (as mentioned elsewhere by another reviewer) does look a little fake like he's not even human, and of course...there's mike teavee, who in my opinion this time around was nowhere near as obnoxious as the original and actually came across as a smart kid who I actually felt bad for when he was shrunken.  The oompa loompas look creepier this time around (prefered the original oompas) and in my opinion the original songs were better. (it seems that in this one the music tended to drown out the lyrics and i couldnt hear the words at times). you could tell the effects in this one were computerized whereas in the original it was a set that was just breathtaking. But... put all this aside about it being a remake and just go see it. It's very nicely done.