If you really WANT to hear Donald saying what some allege he says to Daffy in this film, you might be able to convince yourself that's what you hear. But it just isn't true.
This movie wasn't made that long ago, folks; there's no way on God's green earth that a film comedy with a profile this high would EVER have made it to release with Donald Duck using the words attributed to him. What he actually does say is a variation on the same sort of stuff he has ALWAYS said in situations such as this ... and this doesn't include profanity, not today nor back in the 1930s. This movie does have some elements that will only be appreciated by adults, but they're either the sort of innuendo that won't register with kids, or freeze-frame moments that are well-nigh impossible to catch at full speed (and even slowed down, children will not see the significance).
I mean, kids hearing Dolores ask Eddie, "Is that a rabbit in your pocket, or are you just happy to see me?" aren't going to get the full significance of the line, unless someone explains it to them, if then -- and they're too busy watching Eddie struggling to keep Roger hidden anyway. 
For kids, there's little here that's more salacious than the appearance of Jessica Rabbit ... or Betty Boop, for that matter.
I do believe that, counting the original release, the VHS release and the first DVD, I've watched this film somewhere between 35-50 times (more than any other movie). If Donald were calling Daffy such a vile name, I'd know.
This film is just a masterpiece, a landmark in movie history. There are so many great moments that I wouldn't know where to start. Suffice to say this is one of those rare movies where every aspect of the creative talents brought to bear came together perfectly, from the music to the sets to direction to casting to the animation to lighting and whatever else you might think of. This is one movie that truly lived up to (or even surpassed) the hype and expectations built up prior to release. 
The cameos by virtually every memorable cartoon character in existence in 1947 was unprecedented, and really adds both to the fun and the sense that Toontown could have actually existed.
Two favorite moments: The "singing sword" Eddie briefly tries to use against the villain (I'll not name this villain, just on the off-chance someone's never seen the film), and the torch song Jessica Rabbit sings (her singing voice is actually that of Amy Irving) when we see her for the first time.
I wish only that they had included the other couple of deleted/shortened scenes that were in the movie when it was shown on network TV.
Qapla'