This film resonated with me for several reasons.  First, because
I am a 3rd Generation Japanese-American and visibly recognizable as
an 'Asian', with the resultant consequences in American society.
Secondly, because the film was shot in the greater Detroit area and
I was born and raised in Detroit.  Finally, because I have been BOTH characters shown in the film.  I was the clueless, withdrawn and shy Asian teenager and
after retiring from the Detroit PD after 25 years of street patrol service, I
have become the grumpy, conservative old man.
I see some of the reviewers who gave the film only 1 or 2 stars, have missed the point of the film completely and for entirely opposite reasons. I saw the words, 'depressing, 'dark', and 'sad' used by some of those reviewers.
Welcome to the life of an Asian in America.
The young Asian guy in the film may have appeared 'wooden' but he was a fairly accurate depiction of what I was like at that age.  And no, I was never gang-raped by any group of racist cowards. The racial antipathy of some of the negative reviewers towards Asians, is pretty transparent to me.
Some people will never confront nor admit their own level of racism toward all Asian people.  Hollywood has contributed greatly to decades of depicting us as the traditional enemy of White civilization.  So it is good that a Hollywood film has done something significant to counter-balance that propaganda.  The film 'Letters From Iwo Jima' was another contribution Mr. Eastwood has made toward better understanding of the other guy's point of view.  Perhaps Mr. Eastwood's marriage to a woman with a percentage of Japanese ancestry has made him more acutely aware of the insane degree of racist antipathy toward all Asians, which is held by millions of folks in this great country?  When I recommended viewing of 'Letters' to some of my friends, who are WWII buffs, to my surprise, they refused to even watch the film, because anti Japanese sentiment is still so pervasive, that they have no interest in even considering the perspective of these former enemies.  Discovering that about my 'friends' was an eye-opener for me.
Now I want to close this review by stating the 'real' reason why Gran Torino was snubbed at the Oscars.  It had nothing to do with the racial slurs made against Asians.  It was in fact because there were no black characters in the film with any socially-redeeming qualities and the only ones shown were despicable street gang members, who were addressed by Waly Kowalski with racist slurs comparable to those he used when addressing the Asians in the film.  Here's where the big double-standard comes in.  It is acceptable to laugh about the Gook, slant, slope, Dragon-lady insults, but the Academy wouldn't DARE endorse any film which contains any anti-black language or messages. That is sacrosanct, Holy ground, upon which no public media is allowed to tread.
There are minorities in the USA and then there are Untouchable Minorities.
Tell me I'm wrong.