"The Social Network" pushes boundaries between communication, both good and bad -- right and wrong -- light and dark. Some stories about corruption are sometimes poorly executed, but "Network" does not skimp on the amazing story about how two friends became enemies, over a little thing called Facebook.

Mark Zuckerberg -- menace, geek, traitor (well, at least according to the DVD cover) -- is in Harvard; yes, he's trying to come up with the next big idea, but he can't. He doesn't have a lot of friends, he's arrogant, single, and his ego is as big as the Sun and Moon combined. This, unfortunately, slows down his momentum. However, one night, when intoxicated and recently dumped, Zuck creates a website dedicated to Erica Albright (his ex), comparing her and other girls on a hotness ratio. Not only does he embarrasses her through Facemash.com (the comparision site), he ruins her reputation at her college by calling her a 'bitch' on his popular blog, in addition to correcting her bra size and her family name.

See how vindictive boys can be? But Mark doesn't stop there!

With the help from a few of his programming friends and his best mate Eduardo Saverin, he creates theFacebook, a site dedicated to Harvard students who are looking to connect with their peers easier.

But wait, there's more! Not only did Mark steal the idea from three other students at Harvard -- who wanted to help him restore his new-found badass image with Facemash.com by helping them with Harvard Connection (a dating site for Harvard students) -- he also dupes his friend Eduardo into helping him expand the site. Not only does Mark expand, he begins to piss a lot of people off, including Eduardo, who has his own plans for Facebook.

Brilliant movie, excellent cast, terrific score, awesome cinematography. Not only does "The Social Network" pushes buttons, it shows you how some things in life aren't fair -- at all. So you must fight the battle that comes along with it.

Starring Jesse Eisenberg as Mark, Andrew Garfield as Eduardo, Justin Timberlake as Sean, Brenda Song as Christie, Armie Hammer as Cameron and Tyler, Max Minghella as Divya, Rashida Jones as Marylin, Joseph Mazzello as Dustin, and Rooney Mara as Erica.

The film won three Academy Awards for Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, and Best Film Editing.

"You don't get to 500 million friends without making a few enemies."