This is a mature, intelligent film (based upon the fictional novel (by the same title) by A.S. Byatt) starring Gwyneth Paltrow, Aaron Eckhart, Jeremy Northam and Jennifer Ehle.  Aaron Eckhart plays Roland Mitchell, an American graduate student working at a museum in London who stumbles upon a previously unaccounted for original letter, written by the (fictional) Victorian poet laureate, Randolph Ash (played by Jeremy Northam).  The particular letter is of a rather racy nature and turns out to be directed to another poet of the day, Christabel LaMotte (played by Jennifer Ehle, who is the aunt, thrice-removed of (present-day) gender studies professor, Dr. Maud Bailey-played by Gwyneth Paltrow).  In an effort to verify the connection that seemingly existed between the two 19th Century poets, Roland consults Maud, who is an authority on LaMotte's writings and personal life.  As a result, the two find themselves caught up in an independent investigation into the relationship between the two poets and unearth the startling discovery that Ash and LaMotte were actually lovers.

The reluctant romance that ensues between Roland and Maud as they doggedly pursue their investigation is contrasted interestingly by the flashback moments in the film of the similarly love-shy, Victorians.  Northam and Ehle, two veteran period actors, shine in their respective roles and the strong chemistry shared between the two is electric.  The set designs and sumptuous costuming (particularly true of the Victorian shots in the movie) are lovely and help transport the viewer between the present-day parts of the movie and those which occur during the middle of the 19th Century.

"Possession" is a fascinating, suspenseful story about romance and inhibitions.  While Roland and Maud tenaciously pursue their investigative work, the viewer also becomes acquainted with the political and highly competitive nature of scholarly study in the world of academia.  As is normally the case in regard to matters associated with intellectual property, big money rides on the results; Roland's and Maud's joint research draws the attention of less-than-scrupulous colleagues, who launch their own investigation in an effort to also re-write literary history.

"Possession" will appeal to anyone who enjoys a love story or detective story, since both elements are combined beautifully in this film.  The acting is top-notch and the story is believable and cleverly presented.