I'm one of those people who cries easily in movies. I cry at sad parts, I cry at happy parts, I have no problem with turning on the water-works. I have seen a lot of great movies in my time, many of which have indeed caused me to tear up, but NOTHING prepared me for the emotional battering I received in Spartacus. Not since Mel Gibson's The Passion, has a film moved me so profoundly.

My husband and I watched this together the other night, neither of us knowing any thing about it. Probably that was one of the things which made it such a powerful viewing for us. We were clueless about the story or how it ended. First of all, this is truly one of the great epic classics which I wish was a little more well-known. People always talk about Ben-Hur or Lawrence of Arabia (and don't get me wrong those are both great films) but I've never had anyone recommend Spartacus to me. I'm going to be telling more people about it in the future.

It follows the life of a man born into slavery in ancient Rome. He is bought by a trainer of gladiators and is brought to a school where he learns how to fight. A series of events causes him to become the leader of a massive revolt, first against the gladiator school, then against the Roman empire itself. I've never seen any of Stanley Kubrick's films before but if they're anywhere near as good as this one, I can understand why he was such a revered director. The battle scenes had my eyes riveted to the screen. I could feel the fear as the Roman legions faced off against the army of slaves. I looked over at my husband at one point during the film and saw that we were both holding onto our pillows with white knuckles.  I won't give the ending away but I will tell you that I was sobbing uncontrollably by the time it was over and my husband had to hold me for a while afterwards. It is both wrenching and noble and the fact that it is based on actual events makes it that much more powerful.

The performances are breathtaking. I've never seen Kirk Douglas in anything before, but he  has won himself a place at the top of actors highly respected by me. He embodied Spartacus with tremendous sensitivity and realism. He could have turned him into a tight-jawed, ham-fisted rebel with no sense of humor but he handled him with compassion and sweetness. I loved the fact that he wasn't afraid to smile and show the rebel slave's human side. The love story is one of the sweetest and most moving I've ever seen. Jean Simmons is absolutely radiant. Laurence Olivier chilled me to the marrow of my bones as a cruel, decadent, nobleman on the cusp of obtaining the tyrannical power he craves. Peter Ustinov is very funny as the owner of the gladiator school. Charles Laughton gives a sly, subtle performance as Graccus, a lecherous old Roman senator with a spot of humanity left in his heart.

A sobering thought kept passing through my mind as I watched the film: that an empire such as Rome, which produced magnificent works of art, literature, food and architecture could sink to such levels of cruelty and debauchery. I remember hearing that at one point, there were more slaves in Rome than there were Romans. I've heard America compared to Rome before, both in its advancements in civilization and its deterioration morally. I pray that we never sink to such lows as the Roman empire did. If we do, we shall indeed fall.