Where to even begin...... Firstly, I think whoever is in charge of making the executive decision to get all 9 beloved seasons on DVD and still has not done so should be deported to India with BaBoo Baut!! Seinfeld is undisputedly the greatest TV series ever made! My entire family adores the show.... my efforts, along with my mother and brother taped every single episode on VHS totalling 18 VHS tapes. I watch 2-3 episodes every night before I go to sleep!!
  Now... I know what your thinking.... "if he has every episode on VHS, why is he so adimant about getting it put on DVD?!?" Well, I will tell you why!! First, the quality between DVD and VHS is like that of cassette tapes and CD's..... there simply is no comparison. VHS tapes eventually get worn and will not play any longer... the quality has already been substantially reduced from watching them so many times! Second, I have no idea what episode I am about to watch whereas if it was on DVD.... I could go right to whatever show I wanted to see!! And last and most certainly not least.... all of the great extras and bonus material they could put on the DVD collection!!
  I have put a lot of thought into this and I would be willing to pay up to [$$$] for all 9 seasons of Seinfeld on DVD.... all 9 seasons... immortalized till the end of time so that all may see the best show ever made!!
  Well, I think I have made my point.... get with it you white-collared pencil necks and release the greatest show ever on DVD!! I go into Best Buy and every crappy show on the planet is now on DVD from Malcolm in the Middle to Friends! Every great series is for some reason not being put on DVD?!? I would like to see not only Seinfeld on DVD, but also Curb Your Enthusiasm (every other mediocre show on HBO has been put on DVD),GI Joe complete series (Transformers has been released... what's the deal?!?), and the Spider-Man animated series from the early 90's (Spawn has been released and Spider-Man is popular again.... Serenity NOW!!!!)
  Welp... I have said more than enough... if you agree with me... drop me an email to say hi... the seinfeld fanatics and true fans of good comedy need to unite!!
Hooooocchhhiiiieeeeeeee MMMaaaaaammmmmmaaaaaaa!!
Sincerely,
Jon ...