As HOLES begins, we see a dirty, sweat-drenched, young man emerge from a pit he's been digging in the desert. Apparently distraught over his prospects for job advancement, he bares a foot to the fangs of a passing rattlesnake. Yup, that's how I feel at the end of some workdays myself.
The hero of this quirky story is Stanley Yelnats IV (Shia LeBeouf), unjustly convicted of stealing a pair of snappy looking athletic shoes. Stanley is at the leading edge of the bad luck that's bedeviled his family since an ancestor emigrated from Eastern Europe under the curse of a gypsy crone (Eartha Kitt). Yelnats is sentenced to the juvenile detention center of Camp Green Lake, a parched lake bed in the Texas desert, where the male inmates spend their days digging pits - five feet deep and five feet in diameter - in order to build character. They're under standing orders to bring anything unusual they unearth to the attention of the overseer, Mr. Sir (Jon Voight). However, "unusual" isn't defined except that, as Stanley discovers, it's not about fossils. 
HOLES has so many varied elements that the viewer may wonder if it can all come together. The gypsy curse. Deadly, yellow-spotted lizards. An Old West schoolmarm turned outlaw, Kissin' Kate Barlow (Patricia Arquette). Something lost and buried. An elusive antidote for smelly shoes. Preserved peaches. A coming-of-age story. Lots of holes.
But come together it does. LeBeouf is ostensibly the film's lead, but he's upstaged by Voight's Mr. Sir, the squinty-eyed boss of the labor gang, who manages to be menacing even when he's being reasonable. The Warden (Sigourney Weaver) is an even more hard-boiled case whom Mr. Sir has no desire to cross, but the former plays a less central role in the boys' daily routine, and the audience doesn't even see her until well into the movie when she finally emerges with a vengeance. Tim Blake Nelson plays Dr. Pendanski, the third member of the supervisory staff, who could've been eliminated from the cast entirely. I'm still not sure what essential purpose he served to the plot.
I suspect that HOLES plays better to the teenage crowd, but the storyline is intriguing enough for older audiences, especially as it's visually engaging and never deteriorates into cuteness. It's the perfect film to rent if you're looking for something a little different and on the verge of fantasy.