This had a decent premise, and I disagree with all the casting complaints, the actors chosen weren't bad. What bothered me was the total lack of depth in the characters and the huge plotting flaws.

On the first point, we see Ms Plum go from a clerk at Macys to a bounty hunter with no discernible effort. The writers at least could have given us the typical montage showing her reading up on arrest technique, practicing with her (highly illegal) snubnose revolver, and trying her hand at lock picking to explain her sudden proficiency at all these skills.

The plot itself was weak and full of holes. Do the authors really think that 'hookers with hearts of gold' roam the streets of Trenton? And that the first two she happens upon conveniently know all about the person she's looking for?

And why, for pity's sake would anyone smuggle large amounts of heroin into NJ by boat when they could land it anywhere else and simply drive it in?

Also a mystery is why a licensed and professional bounty hunter and 'security professional' (Ranger) would even consider making a false firearm purchase for a total stranger, when it would land him in jail as soon as the firearm was found on her (NJ has very strict registration laws). Why would he even talk to her at all, and encourage what could only be considered a suicide mission that was bound to get him in trouble or sued?

I also loved how it was specifically remarked upon (twice) that her revolver was a 'five shot', yet she never shot less than 7 rounds from it at a time.

The description of this movie on Amazon was also dead wrong. In what world they would consider this 'family friendly' I don't know. Within the first 10 minutes she's being told 'there's better ways to earn a living on your knees'. Explain that to the kids (or have them explain it to grandma).

That all being said, it was a relatively fun movie to watch, and the star is definitely easy on the eyes, even if she's not going to win a Best Actress anytime soon. The dialog, while not always logical, was well written and snappy. Overall, entertaining if you like this sort of police romantic comedy.