The title 'Aviator' says it. This movie is meant to be about the billionaire, playboy, political lobbyist (in his own right) Howard Hughes. But most of all, it is about him as the high-flying aviator, the record-breaking, inventive, and feisty genius of aviation. And about his crashes, and deep falls straight down to mental hell.

If you like a great caracter performance by Leonardo di Caprio, if you do not mind the concentration of a movie on three decades of a person's lifespan (here: 1920s through 1940s), and if you are generally forgiving of some historical mistakes (e.g. complete omission of Howard Hughes' marriages, lack of presentation of Hughes' political links), this is a movie for you. It is not for you, if you like 'action'. Words, dialogue, sometimes lengthy, that is what you will get. For instance, the Senate Brewster hearings -Hughes has to justify the spending of government support for wartime planes that never go finished- are too long in my opinion. It is all too clear that Hughes is clever enough to pull himself out of this.  Instead, one could have seen more of his complex psychology that leads to his isolation (hypocondrism, compulsive cleaning, etc.) and almost destruction. In the film, this is all traced back to the way Hughes' mother is washing little Howard... oh well.

However, you will see a lovely representation of the Hollywood of the decades above. Cate Blanchett, as Katherine Hepburn, one of Hughes many mistresses, is brilliant. Still good, if less brilliant, is Kate Beckinsale as Ava Gardner. J.C. Reilly as Noah Dietrich, Hughes' manager, are reliably cast as are the main engineer, the 'professor', and actually all the supporting roles. What made me choose this movie in the four-star-range, though, is Leo di Caprio's very good performance of Howard Hughes. At the beginning, you could think that he is too boyish (still, at the age of 30), but,boy :-), does he grow into his role, presenting the sheer determination of the aviator with those creases on his forehead. Even more, and impressingly, di Caprio shows the mental problems of Hughes very realistically (complete self-neglect at some point) and the way Hughes pulls himself together for the above mentioned hearings when it comes to his biggest passion, the aviation.It will be interesting to see if this one will earn him an Academy Award (I actually forgave him to put himself a little bit too much into the limelight as one of the producers of the movie). Go and see for yourselves...