Alright, this review is primarily for those who have read the books and watched the movies afterward...

First, in terms of the movies on a solo basis - the plot development particularly in Jurassic Park and Jurassic Park 3 was intriguing and captivating. The Lost world, on the other hand, left much to be desired. Solely based on the contiguity of the movie trilogy, the Lost World was by far the most poorly done and the most lacking in plot.

Now, each movie individually based on their overall quality and how they compare to the original two books (Jurassic Park and The Lost World, by Michael Chrichton). In the first movie, Jurassic Park, the beginning of the movie follows the book at least half-heartedly, but those who, like me, read the book and enjoyed it very much, were set up for disappointment right from the beginning. First of all, they completely switched the roles of Alexis and Tim. Tim becomes the younger child and the sports nut, while Alexis fills the role of the older child who is more computer savvy. Then, Dr. Grant is first shown with an adversity to children, which is contrary to the way he handles them in the book also. As the movie moved along, there were many other differences that were notable, in my mind at least, but personally I think the most disappointing part is where Muldoon gets killed by the raptors. I mean - come on! In the book, Muldoon is like the biggest and baddest of them all, and even the movie gives you a glimpse of the extensive knowledge he had gained about raptors and their hunting/feeding habits. Other notable differences include the survival of John Hammond, the growing relationship depicted between Dr. Grant and Dr. Sattler, and several special effects.

In all fairness, the creators of the movie had no way to fully depict the psychological aspects found in the book - and the screenplay attempts to make up for this by creating other aspects of the plot, such as Grant's gradual acclimation to the presence of the children and the implied feelings that develop between Dr. Grant and Dr. Sattler. There are also many other elements that are added throughout the movie to make it more accpetable for children, because - face it - children love dinosaurs - but Jurassic Park wasn't written to be a children's book. Therefore, to make it better for children, many changes had to be made in order for parents to want their children to see it. As with most movies that are adapted from books, the movie plot isn't about following the book closely, but about selling the movie to the audience they believe will be most interested.

I would give The Lost World 2 stars at the most - it was thoroughly disappointing to me. The book plot for The Lost World begins with Dr. Levine, a miraculously recovered Ian Malcolm, Sarah Harding, and two children (Arby and Kelly) who are students of Dr. Levine. The discovery of the island and the actual trip out there occur later in the book, with the earlier portions building up the information that leads to the main conflict and introducing you to several important aspects of the characters and plot. For instance, through Sarah Harding's perspective, you discover that Malcolm denies the entire incident at Isla Nublar, though experiencing frequent flashbacks to the events of Jurassic Park. Dodgson is a firm believer in the millions of dollars that a successful dinosaur park could make (his character, which also doesn't appear in "The Lost World" movie, is first introduced in the Jurassic Park book as a part of the company that is attempting to steal information from InGen). He brings a team out to the island, equipped with a large black box designed to keep dinosaurs at bay by emitting very high frequency sound waves. He arrives on the island shortly after Malcolm and his group, who come chasing Levine (who went out to the island as soon as he discovered it, then called back for help). The children - Arby and Kelly - hide in the reinforced trailers that are brought over, and thus manage to get to the island despite Malcolm's insistence that they remain behind. When Dodgson and his group arrives, we see the same trend as in Jurassic Park, where everything is thrown into chaos and they find themselves struggling just to escape the island alive.

In the movie we see a completely different scene. The entire buildup is discarded and replaced with John Hammond (who, according to the books, is dead at this time, but survived in the movie)as a source of information concerning InGen's second site. Dr. Levine doesn't even appear in the movie, and Dodgson's character is replaced by a big game hunter who comes to the island to steal dinosaurs - not eggs. Also, rather than Levine coming to the island early, Sarah Harding is the one who appears early on the island in the movie - which totally ruins the scene where she comes out by boat to join them in the book, since at that time you first encounter Dodgson and the other group, who try to kill her by pushing her overboard during a storm. In my opinion, there was nothing they could do to rescue the movie after that point. Also, at the end they bring a Tyrannosaurus and her baby back to the city. This idea is much more far-fetched than the eggs that Dodgson's group was attempting to steal in the book. Also, Kelly is portrayed as Malcolm's Daughter rather than Levine's student, and Arby is completely omitted from the movie (which also eliminates the entire raptor chase - those who read the book will know what I'm talking about). The movie as a whole was a huge disappointment.

Jurassic Park 3 was better than The Lost World (by far), and since it was not based on any book, they couldn't totally screw the plot up. Dr. Grant reappears in this movie, and is convinced by a couple to come out to InGen's Site B. Here is another sequel that, had it not been for the previous two movies' complete departure from the books, would neve have been possible. Anywho, they arrive at the island, people get eaten (the guys with the guns go first), and eventually find some kid who's lived on the island for 8 weeks somehow - and here they're having problems surviving for a few days. There is very little character development - even less than in the previous two movies. There is little more to say about it - it was somewhat disappointing, but still far better than The Lost World.