"Nancy Drew ... Reporter" is an enjoyable 68-minute black & white detective film from 1939.

Nancy (Bonita Branville at 16), has entered the "River Heights Tribune"`s contest for best student reporter.  She assigns herself to a murder case in which a woman was poisoned by a new photography chemical.  Nancy interviews the accused individual and learns that the poison's container may permanently record the fingerprints of those who touch it.  Nancy is determined to find the container and win the release of the accused.  Since Nancy's father, successful lawyer Carson Drew (John Litel), is reluctant to help at first, she turns to her friend, Ted Nickerson (Frankie Thomas at 18).  Nancy and Ted get mixed up with a boxer, a will, a policeman dressing as a woman, and wax cylinder recordings.  Nancy does many clever things, including figuring out phone numbers and escaping locked utility rooms (funny!) on the way to success.

The mystery story itself is not difficult to follow, and we come to know the bad guys early on.  The main pleasure is the natural, easy-going working relationship between Nancy and Ted.  Bonita Branville does a good job of balancing sleuthing rigor with being Daddy's girl and Ted's pal.  Frankie Thomas injects light comic touches in being Nancy's slightly overwhelmed assistant.  The Nancy of the film feels more girlish and flexible than the Nancy of the early book series.

I have seen quite a few of the films released by Alpha Video, and this one has a much higher picture and sound quality than just about all of them.

Given the times and the source material, there is no sex or gore.  The only skin scene is a brief boxing match between an attractive Ted and an unattractive bad guy.

The one annoyance is the presence of two brats, Ted's younger sister, Mary, and her sidekick, Killer Perkins, who show up to pester the two leads.  One prank does contribute to the final scene but seems a high price to pay.

At this point, "Nancy Drew ... Reporter" is the only film from its series to make it to DVD.  It would be nice to have the rest released too.