I started reading this series when book 1 just came out.  What can I say, I like vampire books.  I really liked Season 1 on HBO.  The deviation the show took that bothers me is that Bill killed Longshadow, not Eric, because that could really become problematic later on.

  Bill seems to be becoming one dimensional on HBO, he is nearing sainthood.  Why would Sookie ever dump him, or date any of the many people she later dates in the books if he is a saint???

  In the books, you eventually see that Bill really has less human feelings/emotions than Eric and other love interests of Sookie. 'Book Bill' is too self-absorbed to even notice Sookie's problems a total change from HBO's 'Saint Bill'.

  When Eric got to save Sookie in Book 1 she warmed up to him, which gives an opening for a romantic change for Sookie----makes sense, especially when your "love (Bill)" just stands there and is ready to let you die.  Also, when someone you love just keeps lying and keeping secrets, like 'Book Bill' you eventually say (even if you love them) enough is enough time to move on--and GEE maybe he is not 'the one'.

  The way the HBO series is unfolding if Sookie leaves Bill and goes to Eric or anyone else she might just seem like a  [...]_itch.  If she just stays w/ Bill the whole series, then it will probably get boring---or completely deviate from the books storylines, as most of the story lines have a connection to Sookie's love interests at the time.  Either way making Bill a saint, in the long run, will not help the series.

  The subplots are fine---but it would be nice for them to stay SUBPLOTS and not overpower the show like this season.

  Long and Short---- Yes, I have preordered season 2--would have preferred less subplots and less of 'Saint Bill'.  One of the best books in the series (and one that has an impact on the rest of the book series) is coming up.  It involves Eric losing his memory.  I just hope that HBO can get over the total 'Saint Bill' thing before that books plot line is covered, and follow a great story from a great writer, so that the rest of the main plot lines from the books can be used.