Collateral Damage is basically Arnold's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000O77SRC">Die Hard</a>...although his character Gordy Brewer is a firefighter, NOT a New York Cop like Bruce Willis' John McClane...so that automatically makes it a different movie, right? A movie with a lone firefighter standing up to terrorists versus a lone police officer standing up to terrorists is hardly the same movie at all, right?

The politics of the movie are ham-fisted and cartoonish, and the release date was delayed due to the events of September 11, 2001. It's essentially a fantasy that preceded actual events, and there was talk of not releasing the film at all...but investors want a return on their investment, so it was released in 2002.

The main problems with this film are:

1). When a movie hinges on a "major plot twist," it makes it difficult to enjoy the movie a second time, because while you're watching the opening credits, you are already dealing with a "spoiler." There's no "payoff"...you got that when you watched it the first time.

2). The "major plot twist" is every bit as ham-fisted as the movie's politics, and if you don't see it coming from a mile away, the chances are excellent that you don't watch many movies.

3). In real life, when the lone firefighter follows you halfway around the world to seek vengeance and thoroughly disrupts your drug dealing operation, you don't toy with him. You pretty much eliminate him within moments of recognizing him. Firefighter Gordy is toyed with again and again and again because if the terrorists didn't toy with him, this would have ended up being a short subject, not a feature film.

4). The plot gimmick of having Schwarzenegger tell the bad guy that he's going to kill him and then having the bad guy ask "When are you going to kill me" or "I thought you said you were going to kill me" (or some other variant) has been used in other Schwarzenegger films, and other action films that were not Schwarzenegger films, so there's a real slap-your-forehead "here we go again" moment when firefighter Gordy informs the bad guy that he's going to kill him.

5). John Leguizamo's character is not believable, and this is far from his finest acting moment.

6). In terms of movie terrorists, if Alan Rickman's "Hans Gruber" from "Die Hard" is a "10" on a "10 Scale," the terrorist husband and wife couple in "Collateral Damage" falls somewhere around 2.5 on a 10 Scale. That's also my rating for the film, but since we can only give 2 or 3 stars, not 2.5, I'm OK with the unintended extra half-star bounce.

You'll find the requisite explosions (and another plot twist in which the husband and wife are incinerated in a fireball while chasing a running lone firefighter Gordy on a motorcycle...WHO KNEW that among his other  talents, Schwarzenegger has the ability to outrun motorcycles...OR ARE THEY?)...but this is one of those movies in which the filmmakers played to the cheap seats. It's not exactly a "so bad it's good" movies...it's more on the side of "so bad it's just bad"...but if you like cheesy "Midnight Movie" types of bad movies, this might be right up your alley. My advice is to take the advice of "Otis B. Driftwood" in Rob Zombie's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AXWHSA">The Devil's Rejects (Unrated Widescreen Edition)</a>: "I set my standards pretty low, so I'm never disappointed."