The movie was the biggest flop in the history of cinema!But the soundtrack might be the best!I had heard some positive comments about this soundtrack before,but it wasn`t until I saw the film I realized the power of the music. It sounded wonderfull!And because great adventure music is among the best I know,I got the CD. Going through all tracks would make this review too long and too repeatable but here are some comments about the score. It is a rather long soundtrack of 71 minutes with 19 tracks so,different from Crimson Tide for example,you can easily select your favourite music directly. This score must have been a great inspiration source for other composers. They`d actually used the music from the 2nd and 12th track in the trailer for "The Mummy Returns". And the real soundtrack for that film,by Alan Silvestri,reminds me much of this score. Now I know why Alan Silvestri could write such a superb score - he must have listened to this one and got inspired. But this one`s even better than "The Mummy". The composer John Debney was less known before he wrote the score for this film,but after hearing this,you will see that he did all he could to create good music. And he did not failed,as he uses the London Symphony orchestra and London Voices to get a massive orchestral sound of high quality. The choral works in the Main Title track reminds me of "Duel of the Fates".  It is quite inspiring as it continues some real beauty (Discovery of the Treasure) and over 50 minutes of solid action music,but it`s not getting repeateable. One of the best tracks is "Carriage Chase" that gives over 7 minutes of non-stop action music.  To really describe of what`s heard on this CD I can say that you should imagine a combination of John Williams` Hook and Star Wars Episode I, and "The Mummy Returns" which I mentioned above. Many people haven`t even seen the film but they love the soundtrack anyway. But to fully enjoy it,I recommend you to watch the movie,as it fits very well. Over all,this is definitly one of the best scores of the 1990`s and it is unlikely it will ever be surpassed!Go get it!