First of all it's a mock documentary of a beauty pageant in a small town.

It stars the ever so wonderfully- b!tchy Kristie Alley (who does an excellent job in this movie as the rich, ex-beauty queen mom trying to help her daughter (denis Richards) win the pageant).

You have Kristie's character's husband, who is an owner/manager of a furniture store and is always shown drinking (even at the actual beauty pageant in the school, he's got his liquor).

You have denis Richards who plays the "so perfect- I make you- wanna puke- wanna be beauty queen " who, while she appears perfect...is infact a nutty b!tch- who gets a peice of the pie in the sky...

You have sugary sweet Kirsten Dunst as the rival to Denis who works at a mourge (however it's spelled) doing the make up for dead people while she tap dances practicing for her routine.

You have her HILARIOUS mom and her friend (Kirsten, mom , & mom's friend live in trailor park. Her mom runs a beauty salon in her trailor and is always drinking and during an incident she's actually blown outa the house with a beer can stuck to her hand....

The fellow wanna be beauty pageant queens are:

A dog obsessed girl, emphasize on the word obsessed... the slutty  "not all there" cheerleader, the red headed american girl adopted and favored by her oriental parents (her oriental sister HATES her and all the attention she gets), there's the eccentric drama student, there's the sugary sweet gal who dresses up like tinkerbell and does sign language for her routine (her relative is deaf, so her goal in life is to spread love through sign language), then there's Brittney Murphy! her character has the extreme giggles and sillies (also a ditz), it's pretty infectious because you start laughing with her.

You have your eccentric town folk trying to judge for the pageant: The creepy judge (he's hilarious), The hilljack Father and Son team (Will Sasso is the fat retarded son- he's hilarious also), then you got the shy/quiet book worm who you can tell is scared by all the confidence the girls show.

I mean the characters are hilarious...this movie combines murder and comedy into one. My mom and I just laughed, laughed, laughed...it was good all the way through. The ending is a hoot, I'm not going to give it away for those who haven't seen it...but it's funny. I heart this movie...