If you are a Witchblade fan like me you will either hate it or love it. More than likely you will love the way that they kept the pretense of the story alive in an Anime futuristic world. I just saw an interview with the top dog at Top Cow Productions, and the originator of the Witchblade series Marc Silvestri, who said that the Anime series ranked 17 out of 97 Anime shows in it's first year of production in Japan, which is quite an accomplishment for a Western based character. Which in its self is quite a feat when you consider that Japanese don't even like American or Western comics, whereas, Anime and Manga are quite popular in the Western culture.
Actually I was first introduced to the Anime version of Witchblade, before I became a fan of the current comic series, while attending Comic Con in San Diego two years ago when they were promoting the release of the first Anime DVD's. I have some nice pictures of the model downed in the Manga style costume and I have some of an attendee dressed as Sara Pezzini the Western yielder of the ancient blade. Which if you are familiar with the New York detective, e.g. Pezzini, you know that in its dormant state, the Witchblade is merely a decorative bracelet but once let loose it forms into a full set of body armor with a long sword, however: sometimes the armor just covers the vital areas, like her breast and her bikini line. With the Anime version I would say it is not something you would want to watch on family night, on the other hand, I wouldn't go so far to say it's the most explicit Anime title out there. If you have ever seen the movie Heavy Metal, than this would be tame in comparison. (Heavy Metal is a fantasy based animated film based on the Western comic series which includes, graphic violence, nudity, sex, rape, and an epic soundtrack. For those who might have missed this classic animated film.)
As for the plot of the story it is actually quite good. It's set in a futuristic Tokyo, Japan with all kinds of great future type gadgets that in all there greatness are nothing to the mysterious Witchblade. For all it's exploitive sexual overtones, there is a real story and the barer of the Witchblade is also a young mother. So there is a sub story that goes hand in hand with the mother and daughter, who for being such a young girl has a very strong character, and provides for both highly dramatic moments and extremely hilarious ones as well.
If you like Anime than you will find this story just as rewording as any of the top fantasy Anime out there. If you are a fan of the Sara Pezzini comics I don't think you will be disappointed because they are just two different characters in time who share the same gift / curse. The dubbing is spot on and not at all hokey like some other Anime titles I have watched. The only problem I find with this series is that it's not available on blu-ray.