First let me say how it never ceases to amaze me how people can review books, games, dvds, music, etc. BEFORE they are released.  To the people who ask "where are the zombies?", HAVE YOU SEEN THE MOVIE????  Your reviews were written anywhere from a week to well over a month PRIOR to the films release.  So, a job well done to all of you.  
The film itself, in my opinion, is one of the best entries into its genre in years.  The film succedes exceptionally in its intent: to be a great action/horror film.  Lets remember that nobody ever claimed that this was for Oscar consideration.
The acting by Milla Jovovich, who overall is an exceptional actress, is excellent.  The supporting cast, from Eric Mabius, who was the title character in The Crow: Salvation, to Michelle Rodriguez, who started in Girlfight, was commendable.  
The score of rock and heavy techno, produced by Marilyn Manson, is suprisingly good, after his subpar contributions to the Spawn and Not Another Teen Movie soundtracks.  It worked well with the horror elements to create a creepy mood and was great during the intense action scenes.
The direction by Paul Anderson is excellent.  Anderson is an underrated director of such films as Boogie Nights and Magnolia, as well as the above average sci-fi film Event Horizon, and what is generally considered to be the best video game based film thus far, Mortal Kombat (yes, that includes Tomb Raider).  Anderson's direction on this film is in the music video style, jolty and quick, which serves the picture perfectly.  
The special effects and computer graphics certainly are NOT the grade-B some people have made them out to be.  Lets remember that this is a 40 million dollar production.  The makeup on the zombies is great, the zombie dogs look great, and the CG Licker looks excellent.  Every monster is faithfully recreated to look like those in the game.  The special effects are just as good as any major sci-fi movie.
Now, about the complaints of the lack of human zombies, DID WE SEE THE SAME MOVIE??? or are you still basing your review on the trailer??
As far as the lack of main characters from the games, I thought that that was a great decision.  It makes the events fresh and unpredictable.  After all, this was a movie "based" on a video games, not an "adaptation" of the game.  Sure, the characters were underdeveloped, but the film gave you enough information on the main character, played by Jovovich, to understand her motivation and the role which she played in what had happened.  
Also, the compliants about the lack of gore, are completely unfounded.  There is as much blood and gore as the director could push for without recieving an NC-17 rating, which is a decent amount.  Just wait for the DVD.
As for the plot being A) too complex (WHAT?) or B) too predictable, I greatly disagree with both.  Come on, the sole purpose of one of the characters, before he was "disposed of", was to explain the role of The Umbrella Corp., the Hive, and the Red Queen.  Too complex?  Judging the grammar in your review, I suppose it was.  Too predictable?  Perhaps in some parts, but not often and not laughably so by any means.  Ultimately, the plot is different than that of any of the games, but as an original story, it is well done and very much in vein with the games.  I never once shuttered over a corny, cheap line of dialogue.
As a really big fan of both video games and Resident Evil itself, I, as most of you do, get really mad at horrible video game based movies.  Not so with Resident Evil.  This movie is loud, stylish, action packed, and scary at times.  I had a blast during the film, never once feeling bored.  In my opinion, Resident Evil is the best video game movie made so far, and a great action/horror movie period.  And WOW what an ending.