How can a sinner go to heaven? Tom Tykwer working from a script by the late Krzysztof Kieslowski (BLUE, WHITE, RED) and his writing partner Krzysztof Piesiewicz posits through acknowledgement of the sin and confession in HEAVEN.
Cate Blanchett is stunning, and filled with a deadly, single-minded purpose as Philippa, a woman seeking justice against a drug dealer who was responsible for the death of her husband and many others. When her explosive plan goes horribly wrong, she is horrified by her actions, yet still bent on her mission. However she is incarcerated by the Italian police for the crime, and only through the intervention by the officer translating named Filippo (Giovanni Ribisi) can she continue.
The first half of the film is superior than the latter half, but I enjoyed HEAVEN quite a bit. Working with the themes of
love and destiny as in his earlier films (THE PRINCESS AND THE WARRIOR and RUN, LOLA, RUN) HEAVEN also brings in some of the Christian notions of absolution and confession. The ending, while strongly symbolic, still manages to be breath-taking and powerful. I was less convinced of the Adam & Eve symbolism in the film's penultimate moments.
As a fan of Tykwer's work, I always feel as I've enjoyed a thoroughly cinematic work after witnessing one of his films. Tykwer and his cinematographer, Frank Griebe (Chlotrudis winner for LOLA) construct a beautiful film, with swooping crane and stunning aerial shots. The crowded Italian city, and expansive Italian countryside are wonderfully shot.  Tykwer also uses sound and music effectively to convey his mood.
I was trying to delve into the whole "twin" aspect of the two characters, who share a name, a birthday, and halfway through the film, a look. With Filippo being born on the day Philippa received her first holy communion, it's possible that he is her spiritual self, offerring her a chance for redemption.
In any event, HEAVEN is a strong film, with lots to think about. I can only wonder what Kieslowski's unmade trilogy (HEAVEN, HELL and PURGATORY) would have come to.