I have read all the other reviews and comments posted so far, and I understand that some people feel very strongly one way or another about this film. Given that the background of the reviewer seems to be relevant, I am not Romanian. I have lived in several countries/cities around the world with reputable intl film festivals for many years at a time, and I like and watch intl films in general.

I couldn't really connect with this film at any level. The characters were predictable in the sense that they didn't reveal some additional layer as the film progressed. I understand this film is part of a movement in Romanian film making, but the extensive scenes where a character is being followed by the camera, without any music score, where you hear all the raw background noises be it in a restaurant, dorm room, apartment building stairway, hotel lobby, or street, did not strike me as some high art. Many scenes were very low-light and even though I have seen many films by masters who use low-light for certain rawness, it gets overused quite a lot. There needs to be something more than just low light, and raw sound.

I understand that these are tools for a director to strip away all means of manipulating the viewers' feelings (music and lighting being the most operative), but here they do very little. You are left with something that would be akin to a documentary, or a docu-drama. This felt like a home movie that tried to use predictable devices of cinema verite to attain art-house status.

If you like films that are supposed to tell you how life was (or may have been) really like somewhere, under some conditions, I suppose this is a good one, although, reading the other reviews, it seems there are differing views on how realistic the depictions are. I personally don't like films of that genre, and if I knew that I wouldn't have watched it.

Look, everyone interprets art differently, and I can appreciate how this film might be a grand departure from what came out of Romania during that period of time, but it wasn't anything out of the ordinary. It is great to see that the pregnant woman's friend is completely selfless when it comes to supporting her in this very difficult time, but there is no character development; in fact, the interaction between Ottilie and the doctor that convinced the latter to perform the abortion was completely out of context, with absolutely no basis, cohesion, or depth at all. It seemed arbitrary ... almost bogus.

The finale is inexcusable in my opinion. The film stops abruptly as if there is some big mystery or life-altering challenge the main characters are going to face. Good films that end abruptly leave the viewer with many profound questions (food for thought). I didn't feel any of that here. Case in point: After watching it for one hour, I paused it for a while and based on how boring it seemed I had to decide if the next 50-something minutes would be any different. Nothing. At the end of the film I was not thinking much more than what I thought of it in the first ten minutes, or mid-way.

One star for not featuring a car chase, knife fight, some sappy love affair, campy music, fancy sets, etc. Another star for the actors who could potentially shine with a better director.

Again, this is one viewer's opinion, after having watched many, many, many films directed by the greats of world cinema; Kusturica, Godard, Angelopoulos, ... just to name a few.