My feelings are mixed about this movie.  From what I have read in the professional reviews of this movie, the opinions are just as mixed.  In sum, it is a movie that will hopefully give one something to think about at its surprising conclusion.
Simply put, THE HUMAN STAIN is pretty much a revampted telling of an old tale that has facinated white audience since forever  and opened wounds and insulted some black audiences.  But, it stands apart from all its other predecesors out of the Hollywood movie machine in a good way that makes it worth seeing in that it's lead character played by Anthony Hopkins isn't stereotypically sympathetic and has depth. Still, his manipulative, cannibalistic and criminal Hannibal Lector has more integrity than his Coleman Silk.
The great and admirable Anthony Hopkins plays an aging professor with a dark secret who is accused of a racial slur by a student.  Through a series of flashbacks, his secret is gradually revealed to the audience--his being a black man passing as white-- as he tells his story to a reporter and begins an affair with a young illiterate janitor on campus, Nicole Kidman.  This young woman has a few secrets of her own like a possessive and obsessive husband.
Plotwise, I think the only minor flaw in the story will be that involving Kidman's charater's problems.  Only a little, they interrupt the real focus of interest of Hopkins's Silk.
Though another trite tale of the mulatto, at lease the characters are 3 diminional thanks to writing,Hopkin's, Kidman's and the supporting actors performances(e.g. Gary Sinise, Ed Harris and Wentworh Miller--the young black man who plays Hopkins in his youth, and Anna Deavere Smith whose scenes and  words to her son the young Silk are not fogettable, even Oscar worthy). Coleman Silk turns his back on his family and people to enjoy all the privileges and power of having white skin.  Instead of challeging prejudices, he enforces and caters to the very prejudices that deny him to be treated fairly as a black man.
At the movies conclusion one is forced to asked if anything has really changed for the better in real life. From what I have noticed in popular culture, the media and all the answer is.....  
Though the majority of black Americans like the characters played by Wentworth Miller and Anna Deavere Smith are a racially and culturally mixed people regardless of the complexion of skin ,or, whether both parents are black American or one  parent is white or whatever,  there are still those who will run as far away from being labeled black as they can get and declare themselves as separate but equal instead of challeging old inherited ideas of bigotry. Political correctness has warped into a new mask to hide self-hatred and racism. There are versions of Coleman Silks that still exist today, both dark and fair skinned, in the black community--even other non-black communities. Society still hasn't shed all its prejudices for those it looks upon as having the wrong skin color ,or, set of parents.