This was an amazing movie, and I can not remember one point in the movie where I wanted it to be over.
First off, Tom Hulce plays the vulgar W. A. Mozart so perfectly you forget that he's even acting it out.  He acts so much like he is actually the real musical genius, it's amazing.  He portrays Mozart much like I actually pictured the man: very energetic.  The way he conducts sometimes shows how energetic Mozart actually was in life.
The loving wife of Mozart, Contanze, or "Stanzi," is played by Elizabeth Berridge.  She is a very loving, yet sometimes rude and angry, woman, who is introduced as his fiancee at the production of the opera "The Abduction of the Seraglio."  This gets him into a lot of trouble with the woman who thought Mozart loved her.  The emporer finally suggests that the two marry, and eventually, they do.
The academy-award winning performance of F. Murray Abraham as Saliere was astounding and spooky beyond all reason.  His performance is filled with hate, the way the performance should be.  He is amazingly realistic when he starts saying that God is his worst enemy.  His portrayal of Salieri should give you the Flibbertywiggymigs, and if not, there is probably something wrong with you.  Later in the movie, he comes to the dying Mozart in a costume that his dead father had worn to a party, and commissions a Requiem from the man, so that Salieri can proclaim that it is his own work and say that he wrote it for Mozart.
The comical emperor Joseph is acted out by Jeffrey Jones.  Well, there it is.  He is extraordinary as the tone-deaf piano-playing ruler of Italy.  A nice touch it is when he recalls the incident with young Mozart, about 7, proposes to his sister Antoinette.  He talks about Antoinette at intervals throughout the movie, and his performance is quite enjoyable.
An honorary mention would be the parody actor, who commissions a fantasy opera, "The Magic Flute," from Mozart.
Granted, I did not see the R-rated version.  I saw the original PG-rated version.  But it was still one of the greatest movies in movie history.
I would recommend this for ages 11 and up.  It is rated PG for harsh language, mostly.  The R-rated version is rated R for brief nudity, but again, I will say that I have not seen it.
This is a full recommendation!  It is a five-star movie without a doubt.  You must see this!  If you don't like it (which I doubt) then don't listen to my other reviews because this is the kind of movie that I like.
Well, I've said a mouthful.  Goodbye.