As a young 36 year old woman, I was born about seventeen months after the events in this movie and the book ("We Were Soldiers Once... And Young" by Lt. Gen Harold G. Moore and Joseph L. Galloway) its based upon occurred. My Grandfather served in the British Special Forces during the second world war, and in the army for close to 20 years spanning before and during that war. I guess, my interest in his war time experiences, (which left him with some terrible physical and emotional scars), has ultimately led me to this incredible movie and the truly compelling book it's based upon, even though it is of another war and time.
When I watched DVD of "We Were Soldiers" recently, it totally stunned and blew me away. I wasn't simply crying as the film drew to an end, I found myself attempting to control the strong urge to sob, as the tears flowed freely. I also had found the tears came quickly through various parts throughout the film as well.
After watching it, I took a note of the name of the book, "We Were Soldiers Once... And Young", and went on line here and purchased it immediately. The book is incredible and riveting reading, and so very shocking and eye-opening to a 36 year old woman who has only ever known war through her Grandfather's stories. I find the book and its companion movie a truly poignant and moving account of love and courage and comradeship and incredible self sacrifice. The soldiers and other service men (and women) deserved far, far more than the limited recognition they received during and after Vietnam for their courage and self-sacrifice during the years of the conflict.
"We Were Soldiers Once... And Young" is a book I believe all young people should read, in order to open their eyes about what their fathers, uncles, older brothers, cousins and fellow countrymen, (regardless of their country of origin - I live in Australia myself and many men [and women also] from here served in Vietnam), went through during this conflict, and what they had to do for each other in order to survive. This war may not have been popular politically, but that was not the fault of the servicemen involved in fighting it. These men simply did what they had to do to survive, and to try to keep their comrades around them alive. As Lt. General Moore says in his book... "No greater love hath no man..." (than to lay down his life for another). So very poignant and moving.
I feel privileged to have read his book, and to have seen the marvellous movie based upon it, and to have felt (to still feel) deep into my heart and soul the emotions and the love within them both. Deepest, sincere thanks to Lt. General 'Hal' Moore and Joe Galloway for putting down in print the stories of these fine, brave young men in combat. I highly recommend their book as essential reading and the movie as essential viewing.
Thank You. (Christine, Sydney, Australia. June 8, 2003).