Let me start off by saying that my two favorite action movies are The Killer and Hard Boiled. Each movie is action packed and are both directed by John Woo. John Woo is one of the greatest directors of all time. He has made three of my favorite action movies, the two I mentioned above and Face/Off(NOT A HOCKEY MOVIE!!!). There is something about those two Hong Kong masterpieces that the American Face/Off just doesn't have. There is a certain kind of style and flare that is aparrent in both The Killer and Hard Boiled that Face/Off just couldn't acheive, although it is an amazing action movie nonetheless. As for which is better, The Killer or Hard Boiled, I can't say. They are both amazing in their own ways.
  Well about Hard Boiled, it has the most action ever to be seen in one movie. That is not exactly why it is one of my favorite action movies though. The amount of action in a movie does not exactly tell you how good the movie is because of a couple reasons. The first reason is that the action may not be quality action. In this case though it definitely is quality action. Next, their maybe a lot of action, but the story may be so horrible that the film may be ruined by it. However in Hard Boiled the story is good enough to not ruin the movie. The story is not amazing or anything, but it is okay enough and involves a lot of scenes that call for lots of action which makes it watchable. The action scenes are the best part and no one does a good action scene like John Woo. A good example of John Woo's directing and a story that makes the movie almost unwatchable is M:I-2. The problem with the story in that movie was that it didn't involve enough action, but the reason the movie was saved was John Woo made every non-action scene seem more interesting than it actually was. In that movie you can clearly see his directing talents... he even turned a scene where two people were originaly going to be talking into a car chase scene! In M:I-2 though you only see his talents yearning for some action where his true talents are unleashed. This movie is the most action packed movie ever, so John Woo's talents are fully unleashed. There is almost no stunt that cannot be found in Hard Boiled and almost no scene that doesn't involve action. Hard Boiled may very well be the best action movie ever made and is definitely in the top two alongside The Killer, another John Woo acion extraveganza. I must warn people out there looking to buy this movie, if you are buying a VHS of this stay away from the subtitled, the quality of the video is much worse than the dubbed. Plus I personally would rather hear people talking than have to read what they are saying. Overall though if you have a DVD player and do not own The Killer or Hard Boiled I suggest getting the two disc John Woo collection featuring those two movies, since they are, in my opinion, the two best action movies ever made.