An unsettling movie that leaves you hanging, wondering whether you're watching someones's delusions, or their submersion into a creepy reality. To me, the pay off doesn't satisfy that desire to know which it  really is. But half the movie's suspense is wondering whether you're being delivered a horror movie, or a hauntingly real movie that will have some plausible explanation. In that, I was disappointed, particularly with the movies ending. I felt that no sooner was I settled into what this movie really was, the director jerked me around- for lack of a better  comparison, like the ending of "Friday the 13th." Not to mislead anyone into thinking this is a movie of that genre's extent. But just as you thought in the original "13th" that the mother was doing all of the killing, BOOM! Cheatingly, a dream of a disfigured Jason emerging horrifically from the water takes you in a different direction, totally contradicting what the movie led you to believe, and in the process, setting up a slew of sequels based on that redirection. "Dark Water" had that effect on me. It seemed as if it didn't know what it wanted to be, or that it was toying with me. Is that good directing or bad directing? Perhaps that was the intention of the director all the way. Creepiness describes many aspects of this movie: the characters, the apartment and the neighborhood in which it sets and the atmosphere it creates, and the unsettlingness that comes with a divorce. To be fair, the direction is good at creating a dark atmosphere that leaves you gasping at the possibilities, including the movie's use of the 2 main actors, the mother and daughter combo of Jennifer Connelly and Ariel Gade, who both do a great job in their roles.A huge Connelly fan, I endured a movie that were it starring anyone else, I may not have sat through. In that I salute the director in his casting. Jennifer is her usual outstanding self, but this movie ranks low in her catalogue of films I've viewed (many which I own). And I was impressed with the work of the young Gade too. She didn't come off as precocious as, say, the young girl in "War of the Worlds" who early in that film spat out dialogue way beyond her age range. But I left this movie totally disastisfied. However, it is a very dark movie. Should I have expected otherwise?