Review written by students enrolled in ENT 201, Clemson University, Spring 2005

Kingdom of the Spiders

If you are afraid of the hairy eight legged creepy crawlers, this movie is not for you!  This movie is more or less a role reversal for spiders since they completely took control of an entire town.  In this 1977 film, the secluded town of Verde Valley, Arizona is attacked by a throng of large spiders with unusually toxic venom.  This movie begins with a beautiful, peaceful overview of the Western mountains showing rocks and uninhabited land.  We are first introduced to the Colby's, a farming family who raised livestock.  Things seem normal until a calf, which was grazing in a field, became startled.  It was found the next day to be extremely weak and had whelps covering its body.  The calf finally died, and blood samples were sent off for testing by the town's veterinarian, Dr. Hanson (William Shatner).

As the movie progressed, big spiders similar to Tarantulas were being spotted around the town.  As the tests on the calf were in progress, an entomologist, Diane Ashley (Tiffany Bolling), paid a visit to the town to investigate.  She finally hears that the calf had been killed by spider venom.  Since a single spider could not harm a 200lb calf, it was assumed that dozens of spiders had attacked at the same time.  As time went on, more animals, and finally people, were attacked and were killed by the spiders.  Diane determined that the spiders were experiencing a shortage of food, due to overuse of pesticides, which had turned them into aggressive meat eaters.  On the Colby farm, a spider hill was found that housed hundreds of these deadly spiders.  The hill was burned, but not all the spiders were killed.  Later, many more hills were discovered, which meant the spiders were migrating through the town.

The spiders had the entire town in a scare.  Mrs. Colby's house was invaded and her fear drove her to actually shoot her own hand when a spider crawled on her.  The spiders spread throughout the town and completely took over.  They attacked and killed everything and everyone in sight.  When the spiders killed their victims, they would wrap their bodies in a thick web which formed a cocoon around the entire body in order to store it for food.  One group of determined people began to spray the spiders with a fire extinguisher.  Surprisingly, this actually worked to kill the spiders, or caused them to move away, but for only a short time.  The spiders would leave bite marks on their prey which would swell and turn red.  They seemed to enjoy showing the actual fang holes in the skin.  As the movie ended, the spiders had covered the entire town with silk webbing.

There were both accurate and inaccurate statements regarding spider biology.  It was very strange to have the spiders burrowing in the dirt creating something resembling an ant hill.  The movie portrays the spiders as carnivorous, which is true.  However, in real life they prey on crickets, moths, and flies instead of cattle, rats, and humans.  In the movie, the spiders are extremely aggressive and attack anything living, but in reality they are not aggressive and bite humans only in defense.  Some spiders are toxic.  However, their bite is seldom fatal, but can lead to faintness and difficulty in breathing.  For most spiders, their fangs are usually too small to break human skin and only a few are dangerous to humans.  In the movie, the prey was usually killed and the bite marks were very large and protruding.  The film used real spiders, mostly tarantulas, making the threat seem more authentic.

This movie was interesting and it was suspenseful.  The music selected added a lot to set the mood and to help with foreshadowing.  The movie was also interesting since there was an underlying love story occurring as well as the threat from the spiders.  Diane Ashley and Dr Hanson were attracted to each other and finally accepted that fact and begin to make something of it while trying to halt the spider chaos.  The selection of attractive actors and actresses was helpful in keeping the audience's attention.  The only bad quality of this film was that the ending did not have any resolution.  The movie ended without the audience knowing if the determined group of people survived the takeover of the city by the spiders.  What happened to the few people that were left alive?  In rating this film I had to give it seven stars out of ten due to the fact that it was made in the seventies and it only had a couple of drawbacks.  Overall, I would recommend this film for a good laugh and a creepy crawler scare!