I own this DVD. Some people write reviews for things they have never owned or used; I am not one of them!

The quality is bright and clear; it was filmed mostly during the day. No corny video effects. The camera was steady unlike many other videos I have seen.

There are good shots of the fretboard, so if you are a musician it is nice; good shots of the drums as well. The sound quality is good.

Anthrax: was ok. They break right in the middle of Indians to play Heaven and Hell. I liked Heaven and Hell, it sound good, but putting it in the middle of Indians was blasphemy; right when the song is to go into the heavy mosh riff they throw this really slow piece in and it does not even sound like it fits. I wish they had just done Heaven and Hell separately because it is a great piece. Joey did the song and Dio justice. What about Gung Ho from spreading the disease or Stand or Fall? I would have liked to see A.D.I. on here, Finale, Now it's Dark, In My World, Belly of the Beast, I could go on and on about the song selection, needless to say I did not think these were the best choices. The lead guitar playing is very good, but I did not think the sound quality was very good for his instrument.  If you are and old school fan check out their new CD "Worship Music" it rocks.

Megadeth: Sounded better than Metallica, if you are a Megadeth fan that is. Holy Wars sounded great! Wake up dead sounded far better than the album; great fretboard shots of Dave's lead guitar work! I would have liked to see 1320 played; there should have been more songs off of Endagame other than Head Crusher. Hook in mouth is, lyrically, my favorite Megadeth song, and I was glad to see it on this DVD; I was able to learn how to play the lead guitar parts for this song just by watching this video!

Slayer: Slayer always sounds good live; they have a simple distortion system that does not involve too much tweaking. I would have liked to see Snuff on this DVD, but still there were plenty of newer songs by Slayer unlike the other bands on this DVD. Jihad was outstanding live, it sounded way better than the album original. Tom yelled out the ending instead of that prerecorded vocal sound that was really dull on the original album (great touch) it is very dramatic. Disciple is way better than the original album; the part where the music cuts out to the bass in the album sounds very weak, but in the live show Jeff does heavy rhythm guitar and it sounds Hella better than the original. You can see the intro to Chemical Warfare drummed out and Jihad has good drum shots also. King plays the lead as originally record for song: Seasons in the Abyss, but Jeff plays something completely different than the original lead so that was fun to see.

Metallica: I've seen this band live too many times. This DVD was better than any of the live shows I have been to (with the obvious exception of the atmosphere you don't get at home!). That Was Just Your Life was cool with the guitar duet of Kirk and James. Blackened had only half the guitar solo not the faster part of the solo, bummer. One is an old worn out song, but the fireworks were cool, it would have been more fun to be there; I still liked the way they did it. I've been to concerts where I think they were too drunk to play their songs all the way through. They would do the first half of Sanitarium and then drift off to another song. In this video, however, they played almost all the songs (except for part of the solo missing in Blackened) all the way through.
Bonus features: There is a lot of bonus footage that is cool showing the musicians are down to earth real people. Some DVD's like to do corny stuff for the bonus footage in an attempt at childish humor, like pretend interview questions meant for a laugh.  This DVD has real footage of what happens behind the scenes.
This DVD is the best I have seen for this specific group of bands. My only complaint is that I have seen other songs for the Big Four Sonisphere on YouTube and the music station Palladia (disposable heroes to name one) and there are other songs that have been recorded in high quality during this tour that were not put on this DVD. I hope they are planning to release another DVD of the songs that were left out, but somehow I doubt this will happen.