'Straw Dogs' deceives the viewer by focussing on mild-mannnered mathematical wimp, David Sumner and his bored, restless young wife Amy. What the film does is to give the impression for much of its time that David is a coward, when he fails to stand up to the bullying local workmen fixing his garage roof. That is the main purpose to the long, slow build up of this plot. But it's only in the violent finale when the true nature of David's aggression is unleashed, and presumption of his cowardice is finally shattered.

What starts out as friendly banter and mild teasing by the workmen gradually develops into more sinister taunting as David remains poe-faced and refuses to show any sense of humour or reaction toward these locals. 'They think you're strange' says Amy. 'Is that because I'm an American' asks David? 'No, just strange' she muses.

As the men become more brazen toward David they cross the line when one of them manages to enter the house and strangles Amy's cat. On discovery of this unfortunate event, Amy nags David into confronting the men over this, and he finally, but reluctantly concedes to the idea. He invites them into his house for this purpose, but again he backs away, not even mentioning the cat, and instead is tricked by the men into going on a hunting trip with them, used as a ploy to get him out of the house for a period. David mistakenly takes this as a real opportunity to bond with the men. What follows is one of the most unappetising and controversial scenes of its day, and is still uncomfortable viewing now.

When David is deserted on the shoot and returns home feeling humiliated he finds his wife in bed tearful. We are not told whether Amy ever reveals what happened while he was away, but the grim expression on David's face when he sits down outside, just after firing the men the following day, suggests that maybe he did know or suspected something untoward. It was also the first time in the film that he shows genuine courage in confronting the men and firing them on the spot.

The siege on David and Amy's home is the final chapter when he is pushed over the edge. Like the rest of the film it raises so many questions. Did David use the injured Henry Niles as an excuse to maim and kill his aggressors, or was he genuinely trying to defend the man he had accidentally knocked down earlier in his car? Were the workmen genuinely concerned about the fate of Tom Heddon's daughter, or were they exploiting the situation to bully David? And of course there is the one answer to the question of whether David was ever a coward, as accused by his wife earlier. He said then that he wasn't, and boy did he prove that point in the last half hour or so. It's an exciting climax to a film that seems ponderous for the first hour or so. But the film has a lot more depth and layers to it than revealed in a single viewing, not least the relationship between Amy and David itself. And I've only touched on a few of the connundrums in this story.

Director Sam Peckinpah raised many social issues in this unfortunate tale. The acting is first rate all round, and the film is essential viewing.