A lot of people bemoan the flood of formulaic movies that are churned out by Hollywood at an almost sickening rate, but there's a reason why they're so popular:  they work.  Never Back Down works better than most, rising above its tired and cliched source material to become more than a sum of its parts.  Mind you, this is not high cinema.  However, director Jeff Wadlow takes Chris Hauty's already focused screenplay and moves it along at a snappy pace, trimming the excess fat and fluff that plagues most films in this genre, and populating it with pleasantly attractive characters of both the male and female variety.  Not once do we ever believe that these characters are real people, with their ripped abs, perfect teeth, and multi-million dollar mansions, but at least they are all equal in their perfection, which makes the story easier to swallow.

Sean Faris plays Jake Tyler, an athletic teen from Iowa with a mean right hook and an even meaner temper, especially when his deceased father is brought up.  Jake, his mother, and his little tennis prodigy of a brother pick up and move to sunny upscale Florida, so his brother can pursue a tennis scholarship.  Naturally, Jake is the country-bumpkin new fish tossed into the shark tank of big-city high school (another implausibility; in the real world, someone as handsome and fit as Sean Faris would be instantly popular, no matter what school they went to).  Jake is then lured to a party by the blonde and beautiful Baja (played by the lovely Amber Heard), where her popular ass-hole boyfriend Ryan McCarthy (Cam Gigandet) makes a spectacle out of beating the ever-living crap out of him in front of the entire school body.  Not a good first day, by any means.

After that, a sort of Karate-Kid meets teenage Fight-Club revenge tale begins, with Jake seeking out the aid of wisened and imposing mixed martial arts coach Jean Roqua (Djimon Hounsou).  It's this particular relationship, between student and instructor, that elevates the film above mere entertainment.  Hounsou plays the part of Roqua with impressive dignity, reining in the hot-headed Faris with firm patience, even when the angry teen tries to make things personal.

The training montages, while a little overdone, are at least physically accurate.  Being an amateur MMA practicioner myself, I couldn't find a fault in either the methodology or the exercises themselves.  In fact, the film inspired me to add a few new rigorous activities to my training regimen.  The fighting, too, is handled with an eye for (stylish) realism.  Submissions, reversals, and ground grappling are all accurately represented, and in some instances, called by name.  My only complaint with the fighting is the ease with which the combatants counter, reverse, or otherwise escape some strong submissions.  Slamming an opponent who's got you wrapped up in a triangle choke is one thing, but rolling and slipping out of a properly locked-in leg bar is completely different.  The ability of the primary characters to take brutal punches and keep coming back for more is a bit unrealistic too, but since this is Hollywood, it's expected.

Also, I was surprised to see that the characters had no sort of affiliation with the UFC, WEC, Strikeforce, or any other recognized MMA organization.  I realize that the film was trying mightily to capture the "underground" vibe, especially with it's "Beatdown" competition, but any amateur MMA event of this magnitude with fighters of this caliber would have professional sponsors written all over it.

As for the story, it is passable.  It helps that Gigandet's character is so utterly dispicable that we almost instantly want him to have his head caved in, because Faris plays a hero that is hard to root for.  He's arrogant, tempermental, naive, belligerent, and stubborn, and his transformation over the course of the movie isn't as complete as we'd like it to be.  To his credit, however, he plays the character true to its roots, and while we may not like some of the decisions he makes, we can't fault him for acting against his nature.  One nice touch is the way Jake is unafraid to lose face at the Beatdown, when he gives up once he realizes that his rival was disqualified.  While it does nothing but delay the inevitable final fight, it gives Faris' character a chance to redeem himself.

The ending itself is hamfisted, and convieniently side-steps the fact that even though Jake beat McCartney, a rematch would have been inevitable.  No hormonal, image-conscious teenage boy would ever get humiliated like that in front of hundreds of his peers and NOT want revenge, especially someone who used to be the former Big Man on Campus like McCartney.  Instead, the film gives us a couple of nice, understanding looks between the two former enemies across a school parking lot, as if everything was made right by the big fight, all former slights and public insults forgotten.  In a word, lame.

So, is it cliche'd?  Yes.  Predictable?  Yes.  Filled with B-list talent?  Yes.  Entertaining?  Very.  Not the best film you'll ever see, but it's definitely a LONG way away from being the worst.  And if you're a UFC/MMA fan, I highly recommend it.