Since Run-DMC's TOUGHER THAN LEATHER, rap artists have been making attempts to merge their creative vision with cinema.  At their best, you get 8 Mile (or even House Party).  But generally. low budgets and lack of vision have churned out tons of vanity driven schlock that fans gobble up like candy but don't have any lasting value.

Written and directed by Music Video master Bryan Barber, Idlewild is, hands down, the most visually adventurous African-American film of the decade. For those unfamiliar with the Atlanta rap group OutKast, they've spent the last decade making Black Music that exists completely "out of the box" but is still funky. In the past few years they've scored massive radio hits with "BOB," "Miss Jackson," "The Way You Move," and "Hey Ya," with memorable videos for all.

Members Andre Benjamin (Four Brothers) and Big Boi (ATL) have appeared in films before, but this is the first one that exists entirely as a reflection of their imagination. In their first movie together, they deliver a gangster film/ hip-hop musical set in the prohibition-era that features an amazing supporting cast, fantastic costumes and dance numbers (by Hinton Battle) and some pretty good music. Idlewild captures the past, present and future of Black Culture in one film.

Both stars and the supporting cast seem to be having fun with their roles.  Terrence Howard steals every scene he's in.  Bobb'e J. Thompson, as the 10 year-old Big Boi is a find as is Paula Patton, an ing&eacute;nue to be sure, but could be the next Halle, especially after her co-starring turn in DeJa Vu.

The minuses:  We don't get a chance to see Dre and Big Boi perform together onscreen. One of the songs, She Lives In My Lap, is recycled from Speakerboxx/Love Below and used in a very dark and morbid scenario.  Barber's plot runs out of steam long before the running time ends and Patti LaBelle is all but wasted in a non-singing cameo.

True OutKast fans have already added this to their shopping cart.  This may not be a "must own" for the uninitiated, but Idlewild will prove to be an important film in the new Black Film Revolution because it shows what film and hip-hop look like when they meet at their highest possible level.