This film should get zero stars, but for some reason Amazon apparently isn't that cruel so you have to at least give it one star.
After decades of being celebrated as the worst filmmaker ever, and having "Plan 9 from Outer Space" occupy that lofty position of worst film ever, and his film may be in danger of forever losing that status. I actually paid to see this film when it was in theaters, even though I was well aware of how it was being slammed as the worst film of the year at the time. And, boy, it easily was the worst film of that year and maybe any other. 
Unlike Ed Wood's films, which at least always had this weird energy about them, this movie is just bad in every possible way. And its not one of those "so-bad-its-good," like the first Charlie's Angels film. No this is just bad all the around and worse, it's plain boring and stupid. It doesn't even merit considerationm as being campy, highI've never read the book, but if the source material is this awful, how did they ever sell more than few copies of that book?
Even more interesting is the fact that John Travolta has occasionally declared that he intends to make a sequel. If that happens I have a feeling John will be ponying up all the money out of his own pocket. And let's talk about Travolta. Has he ever done a worse acting job? Was he just on a mission to once again tank his career so that he could get around to making a decent film and claim another career revival?
Everyone attached to this film should be embarrassed. and talk about plot holes! At one point one of the aliens makes a statement along the lines of when they invaded earth, earth's defenses only lasted nine minutes. Yet late in the film, when the humans learn how to fly fighter jets, the humans take them on in the exact same equipment that had not be sufficient enough to make a war last more than nine minutes. And win!
Watch this movie only if you want to punish yourself or if, like me, curiosity gets the better of you. But whatever you do, try to watch it for free so you don't feel totally ripped off when it ends. I'm still kicking myself.