This movie definitely gets panned by everyone, even the most die-hard Star Trek fans.  It's usually called "the worst of the Star Trek movies," although lately I've heard that Nemesis has taken that title.  But in my opinion, this Trek deserves a chance, and it's not all that bad, and I'd like to defend this movie as not as bad as it's made out to be.
  First, it features the best interaction between "the big three."  As much as it can be said that the other characters suffer because the holy trinity of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy are more prominently featured, these three characters are really the heart of the show.  Trek V has by far the best interaction and chemistry between the three out of all the movies, very much in the vein of the original series.  The movie also seems very much like an overblown original series episode, which is really not all that bad, especially for someone who loved the original series (which we all do, right?).
  For almost any Star Trek movie or show, you have to suspend disbelief a little (or in many cases, a lot).  Maybe for this one you have to suspend it a bit more, but if you look at it like that, it's really a fun movie.  It's definitely campy (it *was* directed by William Shatner, after all), and it has the Shatner ego all over it.  Just think about it-  Captain Kirk goes out to find God (although at first reluctantly) and when he finds God, he beats Him!!!  William Shatner beats God.  I always love the scene at the end when Kirk tells McCoy that "maybe God's not out there, maybe he is right here" and he points at himself...Classic.  And really, if you think about it, it is no more far-fetched than going back in time and bringing whales to the future.
  I have always loved this movie.  Some of it, I'm sure, is nostalgia-  I saw it in the theatre when I was 9 years old.  But as someone who grew up on the original series (in reruns of course), I really enjoy this one.  You just have to look at it a certain way.  Suspend your disbelief, and look at it as good somewhat campy sci-fi.
  I won't go into the downfalls of the movie, such as the fact that the ship is just falling apart too much, or that the rest of the crew are portrayed as completely stupid idiots (probably again due to Shatner's ego and strained relations with the rest of the cast), or some of the big plot problems, because really all Star Trek movies have their downfalls (though admittedly this one has more than most).  It's still not as bad as it's made out to be.  Hey, it's better than Nemesis!