Over all, I feel that this was a good movie.  The animation is great, as are character designs.  The music is good and the casting is done well, by which I mean that the voices matched well with the characters (which, quite frankly, surprised the hell out of me!).  I have read some reviews that complain about D being too flat as a character, as in he doesn't show us a very broad spectrum of emotions (Heero Yuy from Gundam Wing comes to mind).  Well, normally I would agree, but keep in mind that aside from having to live a very long life, he basically has to live it alone, due to the fact that he is hated by both humans and vampires alike.  I wouldn't imagine that he'd have a lot to say or be incredibly happy about, would you?  No, I didn't think so, so lets leave it at that.  But what really gets under my skin is how this supposed love between Meier Link and Charlotte is handled.  
  I'll admit that I'm a pretty big sucker for love stories, especially the ones where the two are struggling against some force that is trying to keep them apart.  However, there is a right and a wrong way to go about doing this.  Charlotte came off as some stupid, naive little girl who really wasn't thinking about what she was doing and all that her decision would entail.  I saw her as just being infatuated with Link, instead of a woman who genuinely wants to share the rest of her life with someone.  Halfway through the movie I wanted to stand up and shout, "GOOD GOD WOMAN, TAKE YOUR HEAD OUT ..., STOP YOUR WHINING, AND GROW UP!"  Link reminds me of some arrogant [guy], too stiff to convince me that he is capable of loving anyone.  From the way the couple interact, it doesn't seem that the two are in love at all, just a pair of desperately lonely people who depend on each other for company.  In my opinion, that is a hell of a lot different than love.  Their dialogue and how the voice actors portrayed them with their performances just doesn't cut it.  (I know, I know...  I said I thought the casting was done well, but how the voice actors match with the characters and how they depict the characters with their performances is entirely different) "Please, don't take me back, I'm just a widdle girl!" "I can't go on without you my love," GIVE ME A BREAK!  You don't just roll over and die for love.  When you sit back and think about it, it doesn't make any sense.  You fight for it, damn it!  If something you love is being threatened, grab a gun, a knife, a sword, a big friggin' stick, ANYTHING and fight like hell!  At least that's the way I feel about it.  Charlotte should have been portrayed as a woman of real conviction, a person who genuinely believed in the love she felt.  Link would have been better, and more believable, as a character if he had been given better dialogue and more emotion.

So to sum it all up, a good storyline and a good movie if you're not expecting too much, but as a love story: horrible.  If those two had been depicted as believable characters, two that were genuinely happy together, then it would have been perfect.  Normally, I'd give something like this a mere three stars, but I have to give the producers credit for the animation, casting, and musical score.  Oh, and there is another thing that has bothered me for some time: JUST WHAT THE HELL IS THAT THING ON D's HAND!?!?!