As I was browsing Amazon, as I frequently do when I'm procrastinating while doing homework, I happened to stumble across this, and noticed that it is free (streaming) for Prime members. So, being the huge Led Zeppelin fan that I am, I decided to watch this as I was doing my homework. Needless to say, I have been on problem #21 in my differential equations book for the past 2 hours and 17 minutes. I simply could not peel my eyes away from the screen. I was drumming along with my pencils along with Bonzo the entire time. The world around me ceased to be as I was there in New York City 35 years ago. I can only imagine how much better it would have been on DVD or Blu-Ray with surround sound. Regardless, do yourself a treat and set aside some time to watch this. And if you have Prime, it's absolutely free! So what more reason do you need? I might be a little grumpy at my 8AM class tomorrow morning as I likely won't finish my homework until 3AM now, but without any shadow of a doubt, it was worth it. I probably will watch it again before I go to bed. It begins a little strangely, but it got right to the point. The setlist is superb, playing all of their biggest hits up through Houses of the Holy, although being Led Zeppelin, they could have played anything and it would have been equally amazing. Throughout the film, they highlight each member of the quartet individually as they play a song that specifically takes advantage of their abilities (No Quarter for JPJ, Moby Dick for Bonzo, The Song Remains the Same for Plant, and Dazed and Confused for Page). Furthermore, the visuals throughout the entire movie are simply breathtaking, from actually being in the stadium as they play to the sub-stories of each individual member. In typical Zeppelin fashion, each song is heavily improvised and never fails to astound. They do things with their music that I had never imagined possible. When Jimmy Page began playing with the bow during Dazed and Confused, I was astonished that firstly I had never heard of him doing this before and also that more people don't do this. Never before in my life have I wished so much that I had been born 30 years earlier so I could have actually been there. Since I can't (sigh) this is certainly the next best thing. You will not be disappointed.