Mystic River does not deserve the negative reviews leveled against it; while I respect the views expressed by others, I'd like to address the grounds often used to criticize this unpretentious and disturbing film:

1.) For those who say it's "boring and slow": Don't we have enough films that presume a 2-second attention span on the part of the audience? The psychological content of the story demands careful development, and Eastwood constructs each scene with careful attention to details, always establishing an undercurrent--a suspenseful sense of the unknown. In an age where most films strive for gimmicky plot twists with Matrix-like special effects and camera angles, Eastwood returns us to the essence of any great film: a good screenplay, remarkable perfromances, and direction that doesn't interfere with the story.

2.) For those who say it's "predictable": The focus of this story is on the psychology of the characters; the plot twists may be predictable in some cases, but this in no way detracts from the depth of the intended themes. A story cannot rely on plot alone for it to be memorable; in fact, most plots since Shakespeare are fairly formulaic. People, however, never complain that they knew Hamlet was going to die--the art is in the substance. Mystic River gives us plenty to deal with. The tensions and nuances established by the characters are at the heart of this film, not its plot structure, however predictable some might deem it to be.

3.) For those who say that the "characters have no redeeming qualities": I don't want a film filled with "redeemable" characters, whatever that means. I want a story that rings true; the characters don't have to be heroes--they have to be human, and this film delivers. No one is flawless or free of peculiar and sometimes disturbing characteristics. If we're  reluctant to consider the darker aspects of ourselves, that's another matter, but as the film shows, people are too complex to be categorized neatly under the "redeemable" heading.

4.) For those who criticize the musical score: Some say, "I'm a musician, and Eastwood shouldn't compose because he only uses four notes repetitively." Well, I'm a musician, too (self-taught and trained), and in this case, it hardly matters what credentials a musician has, really, or how many notes he uses. Eastwood's score is unassuming, and it does what it has to--complement the scenes without being bombastic. Who needs massive orchestration and complexity if it's uncalled for? The score doesn't distract us from the acting and the story, and I'm glad for that. As to Eastwood's status as a composer, that is also irrelevant since history is filled with musicians "without training" who have made their personalities felt. Eastwood had the courage to do it himself, and it's refreshingly free of pretense. I'm sure he doesn't think of himself as the next John Williams, and if he could do it himself, why not?

Overall, it's a movie worthy of our attention for its stark honesty. This is one you can talk about and interpret--complete enough to pose the darkest questions, and wise enough to let each viewer search for the answers.