Hollywood hates this movie. That alone should make this a must-see.

You will either get it ... or you won't. It's like any truly great film.

I would say if Wim Wenders, David Lynch and Frank Capra worked together on a movie it would turn out like this.

My wife and I cried so hard at the end we were like two little kids. One of the most beautiful films I have seen in a long, long time. My wife was in a pile of used kleenex about waist deep when the credits ended. I was baffled trying to figure out where exactly this whole thing was going until the last ten minutes.

The title seems strange until you have watched it. It's perfect. The story is a play that Nate is part of and it is for no other reason than to get him to let go and take a leap of faith. It is something he has to figure out for himself at the end. Megan Fox was the most perfectly cast - she was amazing as the "winged carnival girl."

Be patient. It is agonizingly slow. There are no CGI jumpcuts, hood brothers firing pistols in bullet time leaping sideways, people being tortured with timed tests or any of that drivel that Hollywood normally substitutes for actual talent. It will be worth it at the climax when everything will be clear. The director Mitch Glazer takes his time and will have you wondering just what in the hell this movie is about for 90 minutes.

Remember that IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE was savaged by critics when it was released as a sappy, sentimental and maudlin nod to populist audiences. Today that movie is recognized as one of the greatest films ever made. Hollywood was disappointed that Mickey Rourke would waste his ability on a movie like this when he could be doing something like SORORITY VAGINA SLASHERS or their usual fare. He ended up apologizing after it was released because the reaction was so mixed. Mickey, trust me if this is one of your bad efforts then your career has been pretty spectacular. The peasants out here in the unwashed flyover zones thought this movie was superb.

I predict this movie will recover in DVD sales, I added it to my collection the day after I saw it at full price and I rarely spend more than $10 on any DVD.