Joaquim Dos Santos( JLU, G.I. Joe: Resolute, Avatar: LAB ) has been the director/producer on the DC Showcase Shorts which for me has been great as I'm a big fan of his work( he even got me to watch a short on Green Arrow who I HATE ). What's even better when his name is attached to something you're pretty much about to see some high quality animation that not even a lot of prime time cartoons get other then The Boondocks that is still traditional 2D animation.

Shazam/Superman is the origin story of Shazam and Black Adam, now I'm not a Superman fan but I am a fan of when him and Shazam get into their tussles but I am a huge Black Adam fan. Who gets this short rolling as he makes his return to earth after being exiled with two things on his mind, kill the wizard Shazam and his new champion. Which leads us to Billy Bastion who is being interviewed by Clark Kent, some would argue that this sounds wrong but again it's a short film and instead of a long drawn out way to have these two in the same city they just cut to the chase. Joaquim and the writer of this had the perfect idea of what happens when super powered people get near each other in a fight, throw buildings and cars at each other giving us a major fight that hasn't been seen since the JL episode featuring Shazam/Supes( which is a bonus feature on this disc ). The choice of getting Arnold Vosloo( The Mummy ) to voice Black Adam was great as he brings that regal voice to the role, Jerry o' Conell was ok but then he didn't really say much other then grunting.

The Specter was a very great throwback to old school horror thanks to Steve Niles and the added choice of having the old film grain was great. While it doesn't have the hand to hand combat Dos Santos is known for he still had people being attacked by objects and you'd never know that this could have been his first time doing so. The music score was also perfect for this and done by the "Track Team" who pretty much handled all the music for these shorts, it would be nice to see what these two could do with a full length feature.

Green Arrow is pretty much my fav short which is shocking as while I'm not a Superman fan I really can't stand Green Arrow( more of a fan of his son Connor ). It could have also been this was written by Greg Weisman who created Gargoyles and was a head writer for Spectacular Spider-Man but it also helped that he basically let Dos Santos turn up his fight meter to 11( even had Ollie pull off a armbar ). Not shabby that Malcom McDowell lends his voice too boot

Jonah Hex is pretty much was better then the live action movie and as a fan of the comic it was nice that the cahracter at least took some steps forwards after that disaster. Thomas Jane once again proves that he's perfect for voicing cowboys( having done so in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0009Z3HYW">Gun</a> ) and Linda Hamilton while not saying a whole lot makes sure every time she does it's worth something.

There you have it, while these are short( they are short films ) they're still pretty great and either you've seen these already from when they were packaged with other $20 now a days is still a deal