Charlie Price thought he was free of the family business, moving to London with his gorgeous girlfriend and a life that didn't include the manufacture of shoes.  But fate had other plans for Charlie when his father dies and he finds himself in an office overlooking the factory floor, accessible only through a rickety trap door.  It goes from bad to worse when Charlie discovers that the business has been failing for some time and his father was simply covering that up.

He swallows hard and begins to inform members of the staff that they have become redundant (that's the polite British way of saying "you're canned, laid off, surplused!").  Most take the news with sullen acceptance, however one young lady challenges him with the admonition to "just do something different!"  Easier said than done, but it's a line that languishes in Charlie's brain as he struggles to sell Price's line of high quality men's shoes against cheaper imports.

An encounter with Lola (played by Chiwetel Ejiofor) nurtures an idea.  Lola (or Simon as the case may be) it seems is constantly beset with poor quality footwear that is incapable of supporting his/her body mass atop a sexy stiletto heel without breaking.  Arriving back at the factory, Charlie has an idea and returns to London to recruit Lola/Simon as the designer for a line of shoes to be sold to drag queens.  The change in direction is met with bemused skepticism by most of the factory force, while outright hostility from some of the more traditional males is directed at Lola.

The whole effort hinges on the success of the new line at the Milan Footwear Shoe, and the road to that debut is littered with events both comedic and poignant.

Ejiofor gives depth to his portrayal of the gender-conflicted Lola/Simon and the rest of the cast (with not a single other face or name I recognized) is marvelous.  Kinky Boots is all about understanding, tolerance and the challenge of the global economy.  Supposedly it's based on a true story, but that really has little to do with the reasons for getting this movie.  It's a wonderful film to watch.