In all of the history of cinema there has never been a movie quite like this one.  Followed by four other Universal "mummy" movies (not counting ABBOTT &amp; COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY) that bear little resemblance  to the original, this film stands out as an excellent example of early  sound horror.  But it is much more than that.
The story of a 3,200 year  old Egyptian who is looking for the reincarnation of the true love of his  life, it combines an incredible love story with enough goose bumps to  frighten a ghost.  It's power to scare is extremely subtle.  But this is a  character that is brought back to life against his will.  He is forced to  exist in a time other than his own.  As the story unfolds the audience  understands that the character's only choice while he is there is to search  for his long lost mate.  Because of that, the tale is both scary and sad.  
The hypnotic appeal of the title character and story is due almost  entirely to it's star.  Anyone thinking that Boris Karloff could not have  played Dracula need only watch this movie.  The way the versatile actor  uses his eyes and voice to seduce the beautiful Zita Johann (as his  romantic interest) is not unlike the technique employed by many of the  actors who have played the Count.  Even the documentary on the DVD makes  many comparisons between the two characters.  And, as usual, Boris manages  to inject many other dimensions into his characterization.  There are not  many images in cinema that are as powerful as that last glimpse of Karloff  as he is about to be completely wrapped in the bandages that will seal his  doom.  The reawakening of Im-Ho-Tep at the beginning of the film is created  without one note of music in the backround.  You are riveted to the screen  as you watch the character's eyes slowly open.  A nail biting sequence if  ever there was one.  But nowhere is Mr. Karloff's performance more  effective than in the flashback sequence.  With his expressive eyes and  face he makes you feel sympathy for his character as his beloved passes  away.  You get the feeling that Im-Ho-Tep will never be the same  again.
Backed by a solid supporting cast headed by the beautiful Zita  Johann as Helen Grovesnor, Karloff is in good company.  Miss Johann and  Boris' scenes are beautifully handled.  And with Karloff's powerful but  subdued acting, it's easy to see how she could be so completely and totally  charmed.  Edward Van Sloan does yeoman service in yet another older and  wiser character who always seems to be giving out advise to the younger  hero, in this film played by David Manners.  Manners cuts a  very appealing  figure (as he did in DRACULA) as the hopeful but confused romantic lead.  But the best supporting performance in the film belongs to Bramwell  Fletcher.  After having defied the curse by opening the casket containing  the dreaded Scroll of Thoth, Boris reawakens after a long sleep to drive  Fletcher's character completely insane.  The disturbed laughter followed by  the camera's pan to the exit as the trail of Karloff's bandages disappear  through the door will be etched in your memory for a long  time.
Cinematographer Karl Freund does well in his first credited job of  director.  Obviously his work in Germany with famous directors such as  Fritz Lang (METROPOLIS, M), helped him to create an atmosphere that is most  unusual indeed.  There are frightening moments in this film to be sure, but  they are no more effective than the moments of romance and adoration  conveyed by Karloff and Zohann.  Miss Zohann's performance is all the more  astounding considering the fact that she didn't get along with Freund.  The  documentary and commentary paint a colorful picture of the nearly sadistic  treatment Freund gave to his leading lady.  It makes one understand a  little better why Zohann didn't do many other films.
MCA has done a great  job restoring yet another Universal classic for Digital Video Disc  distribution.  The film looks brand new.  The images practically jump out  of the screen at the viewer.  The usual documentary, commentary and photo  collection are welcome additions.  The commentary is particularly  interesting, but the typical (for these films) dry delivery once again mar  the proceedings.
But, as in the other four classic Universal  "monster" movies, it's the film itself that is the meat of the  package.  And THE MUMMY is one of the best of it's kind, regardless of how  uncommon that kind may be.  Thanks largely to Boris Karloff's performance  and this DVD restoration of it the film will hopefully live on another  3,200 years!  Or at least one can hope!