After Max Fleischer feel behind Disney at the wake of technicolor and Snow White Max still wanted to seem relevant still seem worth just as much in the industry. Both him and Paramount feel behind the industry and essentially wanted to make products that perpetuated that they were still ahead of everyone else. Paramount said they were still relevant by commercially exploiting everything they had including the Fleischer's which made the Fleischer's technically fall behind others because they were so focused on commercialization by the early forties the Fleischer product is so tasteless that not even Popeye can sell some of the poor production quality.

Essentially with Gulliver's Travels Max says that he can produce a superior Snow White by adhering to the New York mentality of doing things, that it is more of a commercial trade and not artistically inclined or bearing standards such as Snow White. It is futile for him to believe that he could have made a better Snow White by being dependent upon production methods that were far more inferior.  This film is so over-focused on trying to out-merit Snow White by being stylistically the same. Had he been more focused on what technologies and resources he had at his disposal he would have made something superior to this train-wreck exceptionally far from the zenith of what their studio produced. The narrative is not very well fleshed out nor are the characters, the narrative revolves around this musical feud no sub-plots its as if your trying to sustain a seventy five minute movie without proper story structure or sub-plots. This once again comes from their New York mentality of not building to much story structure around a film but focusing more on the gags.

Walt Disney set standards such as personality animation, story structure, motion study that this film does not display. Characters are horribly fleshed out the spies Sneak Snoop and Snitch are of malevolent intent yet hardly sophisticated or well developed and in many cases have to many comedic elements to be taken seriously. The feud cannot sustain a seventy five minute film as elaborated before due to the fact that you need a more fleshed out narrative in such a format, it is a kin to trying to make a feature centered around a series of gags which is what New York Cities silent animation production system did in short subjects.

One of the reasons the quality suffers is a short production period to avoid competing with Fantasia and Pinocchio two of which are light years ahead yet were commercial flops due to the European market being shut out as a potential place to distribute the film. Gulliver supposedly suffered the same fate according to Paramount who acquired the company by saying that Gulliver was in the red and hadn't made a profit. Based on Ray Pointer's wonderful research it turns out that Gulliver was distributed over in Europe. Much of these profits may have been enough to by back the loan they borrowed from Paramount and then some.

I'm sorry to any of the cult-followings this film has received but honestly this is a disaster. Max could have made better out of it by exploiting certain technologies and focusing on their own strengths but he is so over-focused on trying to out-merit Disney to gratify his ego that he still relevant and ahead of everyone in the industry. Max was only relevant in popular culture because of Popeye by 1939, this film does not prove that he is ahead of Disney.