Having both film production and exhibition experience, and knowing something about aspect ratios, I can clear this up easily. After Cinemascope came along, the studios wanted to in effect "widen" the standard aspect ratio without the need of special optics. This was done by simply cropping the top and bottom of the standard 4:3 aspect frame. The cropped (or "matted") aspect ratio varied from 1.66:1 to 2:1 until they arrived at a standard (in the US anyway) of 1.85:1 - which is what it is at present. When the films were shot, they allowed extra head and foot room to accomodate cropping. Theatres had the option to project cropped or full frame. Television of course always ran these films full frame.

"This Island Earth" is one of my favorite sci-fi films and I know for a fact that it was shot in this manner. I recently saw it in a theatre in "cropped" 35mm widescreen. If you have the previous DVD or any other video release of "This Island Earth", look at the opening credits and notice how much space there is above and below the text. Also notice the amount of headroom throughout the film.

A number of mid-to-late 50's non-scope sci-fi films have been released on DVD in 16:9 (1.78:1 in film terms) by cropping. But that is actually the way the films were expected to be shown in theatres. If it is an anamorphic DVD and you have a widescreen TV, you are getting a somewhat higher resolution than you would if it were "letterboxed". So this is by no means a "hatchet job" as I have seen it referred to. It is how it was meant to be presented in theatres that were configured for widescreen. But yes, any films made before the mid-fifties that were reconfigured for widescreen, such as the 70mm "Gone With the Wind", truly were butchery.

Go to the Widescreen Museum website (for some reason Amazon won't allow the weblink of this informational website to be posted) for a full explanantion of the zillions of widescreen processes out there.

Where this "ultra-wide" scope notion for "This Island Earth" came from is beyond me. But a 16:9 anamorphic DVD would be perfectly appropriate.