As a huge fan of South Park, I always feel concerned when the beginning of a new season hits. It's been obvious with shows such as The Simpsons and Family Guy, and it still seems to evade this show. Of course, I'm talking about "jumping the shark". You see, after a certain amount of time, a show like this, one that has no definitive end point in sight and isn't following a linear story-line, will suddenly lose that pizzaz that makes it what it is. Many seemed to cry foul when we had the Britney Spears episode in this season, yet that was followed up by one of the greatest episodes in this show's history, Major Boobage. And I think this two episode chunk can be put to use to give the viewer a taste of the season as a whole. Although some episodes don't capitalize on their subject matter, they're still able to provide great satire. However, some easily make the best of it all and knock the episode out of the park. Yet, this is all opinion. I've seen many different opinions on the best of worst of this season, and I think that when a general consensus can't be completely reached, it's up to the viewer themself.

Personally speaking, this is probably the weakest season of the show. However, I cannot express how silly this statement is, because this season was still better than 99% of any other programming on the TV. There's still not a single show that can even try to do what South Park does. South Park provides great characters, inventive story telling, and incredible, biting satire. It's able to do so much more than any show given the 30 minute time slot, and it knows it. So, here's a brief assessment of each episode. Again, as I stressed before, this season, more than any other, is subject to personal opinion and your opinion on certain episode's could vary from mine completely.

Tonsil Trouble - After a botched tonsil related surgery, Cartman gets AIDS. Now, that's as far as I really wanna go in explaining this one because watching the story unfold in this episode is half the fun. It's funny to see that even though Matt and Trey have targeted AIDS before, they're still able to find new avenues for satire on the issue. Definitely a satire heavy episode that's a bit uneven, but it's down right hilarious. Grade: B

Britney's New Look - The boy's and Butters decide to get paparazzi pictures of Britney Spears but end up trying to save her laugh after realizing the truth behind the hype of her current attention. I think I'm with most of the people that disliked this episode because it never seemed to capitalize on making some real comedy about this whole incident after the first 8 or 10 minutes. The ending, however, was pretty funny with an allusion to The Lottery. Grade: C

Major Boobage - After learning of new ways to get high, Kenny begins experimenting with getting high off cat pee as cats become illegal. Wow, what a great way to make a comeback. This episode is easily one of the best of the entire show. The Heavy Metal scenes are a riot as is the ending and Cartman's story. All around amazing. Grade: A+

Canade on Strike! - Canada goes on strike because they feel disrespected and under-payed, causing the boys to try and help by making money off the internet for a way to end the strike. Another great episode that brought the canadians back. The internet related scenes are incredibly funny and I really think they did an awesome job with this one. Grade: A

Eek! A Penis! - Mrs. Garrison realizes that she was always a woman and tries to be changed back into a man while Cartman is put in charge of teaching in a downtown Denver school. A really good episode. Not quite amazing, but really good. The Mrs. Garrison stuff was hilarious and I think they did a decent job with Cartman's story as well. Could've done more with the Cartman stuff, though. Grade: B

Overlogging - The Marsh family goes to California after the internet stops working. I thought this was another really great episode. The allsuion to The Grapes of Wrath was rather witty as was the whole issue of the episode. Great stuff! Grade: A

Super Fun Time - While at a Pioneer Village, the place is taken hostage by world-class thieves as Cartman and Butters escape to play at Super Phun Thyme. Wow, another amazing episode. The Butters/Cartman dynamic was great as was the whole use of the bad guys from Die Hard. Entertaining and hilarious. Grade: A+

The China Probrem - Cartman and Butters take hostage a P.F. Chang's after believing the Chinese are going to take over the world, while Stan and Kyle confront the deep dark truth of the rape of a close friend. This episode was a love it/hate it episode. For me, I wasn't thrilled because it carried the same jokes too far through the episode. It felt as though the writing was running dry on ideas. Grade: D

Breast Cancer Show Ever - Cartman and Wendy fight after Cartman makes fun of Wendy's presentation on Breast Cancer. This, like Major Boobage, was a great return to form after another stinker. I kind of wished they would've done something with Stan's cut-short storyline, but none-the-less, it was awesome. Grade: A

Pandemic (Parts 1 & 2) - The boys coax Craig into making a Pan Flute Band when they are departed by Home Land Security after Pan Flute Bands become illegal. However, the secret of the Pan Flute Bands will cost many lives. This was a good two parter, but it wasn't quite comparable to the likes of Go God Go and Cartoon Wars from Season 10. Again, I thought they could've maybe tried more avenues for jokes to make it better, but it was still pretty good. Grade: C

About Last Night... - The truth behind the 2008 election is revealed as Stan and Kyle try to handle all the craze after Obama is elected. I really thought they put up the best comedic show about the election because they left any bias they might have out of the episode. The story of the two candidates was pretty good but I really wish they would've given more material to incorporate people like Kenny and Cartman into the main story more. Oh well, still awesome. Grade: B

Elementary School Musical - The craze of High School Musical hits South Park and the boys try to deal with it, while Stan thinks the new kid in school may be trying to steal Wendy from him. A great way to come back from a slightly disappointing two parter. I couldn't think of a better way for someone to do a satire on this stupid fad. Grade: A

The Ungroundable - The season finale has Butters thinking that vampires are now in the school as the whole vamp style hits the school. Similar to the previous episode, this, too, does a great job at satirizing a silly fad with younger age groups. It really does a great job as a big allusion to Salem's Lot while also bringing back memories of another season finale devoted to Butters, Butters' Very Own Episode. Plus, the beginning scene is hysterical. Grade: A

Now, this may not seem that bad, and it isn't, but in comparison to the previous eleven season of South Park, there is a slight sense of the show declining. Personally, I don't think fans have much to worry about, as the show will probably end with the 15th season the contract goes to, and it will take a lot longer for this amazing show to end up like The Simpsons. A very good season to an amazing show. Not much to complain about.