Let me start by saying this, if you haven't seen this movie you've missed out on one of the true originals. I know it's a sequel but nevertheless it has set a standard in the industry which has yet to be surpassed. In all  sci-fi movies I now watch I see how many references/rip-offs/tributes I can  tally, the number has never been under seven. The fact that 14 years later  it is still the best, most effective, and without a doubt the scariest  alien genre film produced for the screen makes it my favorite film.
In  James (best visual effects Oscar) Cameron's epic sequel to the 1979 classic  Aliens, Lt. Ripley returns, frozen, 57 years later to Gateway Station  orbiting earth. "The company" investigates the loss of the cargo ship in  the first film, which she destroys to kill the alien, and of course they  think she's crazy when she tells them stories of aliens that gestate in  human hosts and have acid for blood. They revoke her flight status,  effectively ruining her career.
Visited by nightmares that leave her in a  cold sweat every single night, it is clear the demons are not gone and she  is racked with a need for retribution and closure. After losing contact  with a "shake and bake" colony Ripley is approached by a representative of  the company, Carter Burke, and the colonial marines. They want her to  return to LB427 and advise the team of elite marines going in. At first she  is reluctant, rude even, but the promise of a reinstated flight status and  her recurring dream proves too much and she agrees to go. 
Once there  they discover every single colonist missing, "Whatever happened here I  think we missed it". After a bit of technical know-how is utilized the  colonists are located and they discover the terrifying truth. In the  issuing battle most of the team is lost and Ripley is left to organize  what's left and find a way out, but the aliens prove to be much smarter  than anticipated, cutting them off at every turn. On top of that it is  revealed that Burke has double-crossed Ripley in the name of millions of  dollars.
In Roger Ebert's 1986 review he said, "I have never seen a movie  that maintains such a pitch of intensity for so long". Almost the entire  last half of this film is pure action, and some of the best ever put on  film. In an interview on the DVD edition, which I highly recommend, James  (I can spend more money than you) Cameron said something like, I think too  many puppeteers focus on details and forget that the most important thing  is movement. People need very few pixels to recognize a human, but movement  makes it - real, and that's what's scary.
That single, yet all-important  knowledge made it possible to film this movie with only six costumes  (you'll be amazed when you realize this as you watch), and made it possible  to create creatures so believable there hasn't been an original alien  design since. 
Transporting us to another world, this film makes us  forget we are in our comfortable homes with a warm sweater and buttery  popcorn. Instead we feel the panic of the terrified marines as countless  aliens leap and screech, it makes us feel the pure adrenaline-pumped primal  need to survive under all circumstances.
Notable performances include  Sigourney Weaver, who was nominated for best actress. Paul Raiser, giving a  standard-setting performance as the corporate slime. Michael Biehn, in the  classic yet somehow not tired role of the exhausted I've-seen-too-much team  leader.
The film was nominated by the Academy or won in the following  categories: Best Actress, Art Direction, Film Editing, Score, Sound, Sound  Effects Editing and of course - Visual Effects.