One thing that I need to get off of my chest that has been bugging me for some times now is that: AEON FLUX IS NOT JAPANESE ANIME, it's an adult animated series.  Alot of people make the mistake of assuming that if an animated series is aimed towards adults, that it automatically accounts for it being Japanese Anime, which is absolutely not the case.  If that were so, then Heavy Metal and The Head might as well be classified as Japanese Anime.  It's not.

With that cleared, let me state that this collection is truly a special treat for Flux fans.  The ten episodes from the animated series are all here & digitally remastered (with Dolby Digital 2.0 & 5.1 surround sound) with newly added dialogue on the first two discs.  For staters, Peter Chung ADDED newly recorded dialogue in order to better progress the storyline in certain areas, Chung didn't remove anything (he didn't pull a Mike Judge B&B Vol. 1 Col) just slightly extended for the best possible sequence.  Then there's also the third disc which covers the history of Aeon Flux, including interviews with the producers & voice actors, all of the Aeon Flux shorts (including the pilot), and an overview of all of the main weapons & vehicles spotted throughout the would of Flux (brought to you by Aeon herself), not to mention sketches.  What more could a Flux fan ask for?

The only real gripes with this collection:

1) The commentary isn't as informative or intriguing as could be. In some areas it comes off too discreet at times, focusing too much on the technical aspects of the shots, & very little elsewhere.

2) The packaging isn't as robust as could be.  It would have been excellent to have seen the futuristic Aeon Flux collection boxed into a tinfoil/plastic casing, with each disc placed in separate pouches in the same case.  Rather than each disc separately bundled together in cardboard casing.  Could have made for an ever better collectible.

3) There's no Anaphormic Widescreen Feature.  While it's great that each of the ten episodes were digitally remastered for the best quality possible, it could have been even better if there were an option to watch them in widescreen for a truly enjoyable viewing experience.  The episodes are presented only in standard full frame.

Other than that, this box set is a complete must-buy just for the ten episodes & shorts alone.  However, be advised that this collection (unlike the Hollywood 2005 film) is geared more towards the veteran fans of the series. Newcomers desensitized by today's standard of animated series' and franchises, may not come to like Aeon Flux (unless overly openminded).  Aeon Flux is a cult classic in which many would have had to have seen from the days of Liquid Television on MTV, to truly appreciate and love.  Peter Chung crated something truly phenomenal when having created Aeon Flux.  Some of camera shots he used, had never been seen or done in any other animated series/movie prior.  Aeon Flux is like no series you've ever seen before.

An absolute must-buy for the fans!  Now all we need are some Aeon Flux action figures, and we're all set.