Kathy Smith's latest workout video includes 3, 20 minute workouts.  Kathy works out alone on a bright, cheerful set.  The music is a generic, rhythmic, non vocal type of exercise music.  It's not my favorite type of music to work out to, but it does keep the exerciser on pace to work up a sweat.

Circuit Workout:  Kathy alternates 3 minute cardio segments with weight training.  There really isn't any type of warm up, and the cardio is basic without any complicated combos to learn.  For example, Kathy starts out with heel touches that lead into knee ups, and then repeater knee ups that build to a push of 16 repeaters on each leg.  All 3 cardio segments build to a push.  And there are even a few high impact moves like pop ups, which is simply jumping up in the air.  The weight segments work the upper body with dumbbells.  Kathy does lat rows, bicep curls, shoulder presses, one leg dead lifts, tricep extensions, and then she finishes with a set of regular and tricep pushups.  The lower body is worked with squats and lunges.  Just like the warm up, the cool down is short and includes just a few stretches to end the workout.

Balance Workout:  In this workout Kathy alternates cardio movements with balancing exercises.  You'll definitely get your heart rate up.  The routine is also very basic and simple to follow.  I liked the flowing feel of this routine.  The intensity is increased by using flowing arm movements along with the foot work.  Two balancing exercise examples  include bringing one knee up while standing and then flexing the toes, as well as bringing one knee up and the opposite arm down to meet while you are standing on one leg.  The moves are deceptively simple but challenging nevertheless.  The routine ends with a series of standing yoga stretches.

Energize:  This workout is a series of athletic, yoga and pilates type of stretches.  Kathy starts out standing.  Then, she gets on hands and knees, sits, then lays down on the mat.  By the end of this workout, I felt like I had stretched every muscle in my body.

Overall, this is a good workout DVD.  Because of the pace and some of the challenging moves, I do think this DVD is best suited for an intermediate to advanced exerciser.  I like the fact that all these workouts won't take long.  I just wish the workout had a more inspiring music soundtrack.  I also prefer a little more variety for my cardio dance segments.  For that reason I am not giving this DVD 5 stars.  But if you are a Kathy Smith fan, who does not like complicated or dancy moves, and are at least an intermediate level exerciser, I say give this one a try.