I shut the door of my room keeping my son and wife away so that I could prevent them from watching any graphic or violent stuff the movie may have but I am happy it didn't. Throughout the movie I dreaded seeing such stuff but even without them what a powerful and gripping movie Hotel Rwanda turned out to be. The powerful acting, screenplay and storyline compensates for all that.

Don Cheale exudes sincerity in his role of the Hutu Hotel Manager saving the lives of hundreds of Tutsis in wartorn Rwanda. His wife played by Sophie Okonedo also excels in a role that one cannot afford to ignore. Nick Nolte, Joaquin Phoenix (in a small role), and the rest of the cast and crew also deliver with unforgettable and moving performances.

Amidst all this it is sad to know that this genocide took place. So many people were killed without any reason. What did the so called Hutu gain in the process is the question. And why did the west and other nations that could offer help turn a blind eye to the deaths of hundreds and thousands of Tutsis? What will they gain by offering help is enough to answer that question. Even the United Nations refused to authorize its peacekeeping operation in Rwanda. In one small scene in the movie Don Cheale enters a Hutu stronghold from where he buys provisions for the

Hotel and notices several young Tutsi women being held captive. What irony! The Hutus kill the Tutsi's but want their women?

Terry George who was also involved in the screenplay of the highly acclaimed 1993 movie "In the Name of the Father" starring Daniel Day Lewis, has directed the movie. A few days ago there was a hue and cry about the accuracy of the facts shown in this movie and another one about the war in Rwanda but the scenes of the film are enough to show the world what went on there in those tumultuous years.

The bombing of the World Trade center took about 3000 odd lives. The genocide in Rwanda took the lives of 800,000 Tutsis. Where did the world focus more? Search for "Rwandan Genocide" on Wikipedia for a detailed report on the genocide.

Hotel Rwanda, highly recommended.