The Pirates of the Caribbean-Dead Man's Chest movie swept me off my feet.  As a Johnny Depp fan, I found The Pirates of the Caribbean to be a seat rocker. Although my kids are normally not allowed to watch such ghostly horror films, I allowed them to sit and enjoy the humor, graphics and action packed film that held us all captive from start to finish. We don't have the luxury of any regular television cable connection so I am very selective in providing entertainment for my family through DVD action.

My family, "Oooooh'd and ahhh'd" over the spooks and excellence in making the ghostly characters seemingly realistic and animated with color and effects to fill the visual appetite. The kids refused to take potty breaks or attempt to do any snack fetching unless the movie was placed on pause and harmoniously we all moved in sync. Rushing out to get back as fast as we could to jump back into the action.

Jack Sparrow's sweet sense of good guy through out and humorous crave to continue to do the dirty deeds gave me a love/ hate perception of his role. However, Orlando Blooms physique, good looks and heroic character stole my heart from Johnny Depp throughout the mystical groove of each scene.

Watching a so called--- pirate movie such as this takes one from a Peter pan mode to a more magical, scary but yet exciting level of enjoyment. The imagination is peaked and the mind starts to wonder all over again about what we believe to be realistic vs fiction and allows our minds to delve in the perhaps it's real when really we know it's not. We cling to the funny and super human qualities of each character and decide in an instant who we like and who needs to die, then we feel the energy of each swing of the sword or dodge of the blades as if we ourselves are in the movie playing the role of our superstars.

I love it when the movie takes me to an "out of the body mode" and into the actual screen play... feeling each actor's energy to the core of existence. The sequels are a must see, and the actors are a must have to create continued success of each playwright.