While most cinematic narratives of passing "so fully naturalize certain givens that they mask a range of contradictions inherent within them," Douglas Sirk's 1959 satiric remake of John Stahl's 1934 Imitation of Life brilliantly denaturalizes the intersections of race, class and gender presented in the film through Brechtian gestik acting-that is melodramatic, over-the-top acting that imitates behaviors rather than truly feeling them (quotation Valerie Smith's).  By pursuing the film in this matter, Sirk produces a wonderful alienation effect (known by film connoisseurs as the "Verfremdungseffekt") that distances the filmgoers from the action, allowing them instead to sit back and criticize the main themes of the film.  As the film progresses, we begin to wonder why such unnatural actions are considered perfectly natural by the characters, and consequently we begin to analyze the intersections of race, class and gender in America: Why were such racist and materialistic morals audaciously thought as natural and admirable in pre-Civil Rights America?  Why does America idolize such stereotypical representation of beauty?
Lora Meredith (Lana Turner) is first seen through a male lens-literally, that of Steve's (John Gavin's) camera.  The wind blows through her white dress and perfectly-styled blonde hair as she calls for her daughter whom she's neglectfully lost sight of. The camera (both Steve's and Sirk's) moves slowly up her body, capturing what Michel Foucault has termed the "microphysics of power"-dissecting her figure into "spatial, temporal, gestural" fragments that represent the ideal woman (Ingeborg Majer O'Sickey).  Even while in alleged distress, she walks daintily, smiling and holding her head up high, leaning gracefully over the boardwalk.  Her actions, hair and attire closely resemble those of the 1959 Barbie  "symbolic of society's ideal of the perfect woman" (Sage Sohier).  We know little about Lora at this point (and neither does Steve), yet we know just by looking at her that she'll be the "successful" person in the story, whatever that means.  It is the materialistic characters that Lora represents that make such lines as "you're making me feel cheap" by Lora so comical.
Tall, dark and handsome "Prince Charming" Steve suddenly appears at Lora's door shortly after the beach adventure with pictures, finds out she's a widow and quickly moves into her life.  The way the two characters passionately throw themselves at each other during love scenes is laughable, especially when followed by Steve proposing marriage right away, then ordering her in his next breath to not go down to the acting studio "because [he] says so."  She won't have to worry about getting a job because he'll be "the man," acting out his role as the money-bringer in the house while Lora stays home and looks pretty.  The scene becomes especially comical watching it in the 21st century, when not too many women will settle for the machismo "men act, women appear" attitude (John Berger).
As Lora becomes "successful," we are brought into her spotless house filled with every material luxury in the world-yet even then the African American family of Annie (Juanita Moore) and Sarah Jane still stay in back rooms.  Ironically, both daughters begin to reject their own mothers and practically "switch" them.  While Annie and Suzy are sickeningly sweet, Annie's Sarah Jane (Susan Kohner) and Lora are overly dramatic.  Even as a little girl, Sarah Jane (Karin Dicker) rejects her "blackness," and tries to pass for white.  While she asserts: "I'm white," the camera slowly moves in on her wide eyes as dramatic music plays, allowing us to criticize her selfish actions for denying her race, rather than transcending racial boundaries.  Similarly, we criticize Lora's actions as an irresponsible mother as she and Suzy drift further apart.  During this tension, we're presented with a great interlude of levity when Suzy shouts "STOP ACTING!" at her mother-we were so used to the overacting to begin with that it became hysterical when another character (who acts over-the-top as well) has picked up on it.
While we're constantly reminded that the film is indeed a parodic imitation, we are brought back to the film's serious issues during Annie's lavish funeral scene when Mikaliah Jackson's character poignantly pours her heart out in a beautiful, eulogistic song.  While many pull out the Kleenex during this scene, we must remember that it's NOT supposed to be cathartic.  Instead, we should step back and think about how realistic it was for an African American female to receive such grand attention at a funeral.  Then, we can sit back and cry for a real reason.
Unique and progressive for its time, and even funnier in the 21st century, Sirk's remake is a brilliant, provocative film-a gem that transcends generations, but lets us critically view pre- and post- Civil Rights America.  Highly recommended!