Nicolas Cage takes a break from all the awful big blockbuster action movies he does and chooses a role that reminds us why he won an Oscar in the first place (Remember his Oscar? It sure wasn't for "Next" or "Ghost Rider"!)

In this smallish, low key movie, directed by Gore Verbinski (Pirates of the Caribbean), Cage plays David Spritz, the titular Weatherman. David wears well tailored clothes, drives nice cars, lives in a very nice apartment and has a great job most people would kill for. He also feels miserable most of the time.

He is separated from his wife and he can't communicate with his kids, no matter how hard he tries. He dislikes what he does for a living and feels it's a sham.
On top of that, the one person he would most like to impress, his father (played by Michael Caine), clearly acts like he believes his son will never grow up or ever amount to anything.
In fact, David's life is so off track that when random strangers throw food at him in the street(!) it doesn't seem bother him that much.

From what you have read so far, you might have the impression that this is supposed to be some kind of comedy... it isn't. But it's no tragedy either.
So if it's neither funny nor tragic, what is it supposed to be?  The only word I can think of to describe it is ... poignant

For example, there is a moment in the movie when his daughter tells him how she got her nickname which I found very touching. Being a father myself it reminded me how heartbreaking it is to not be able to protect your kids against life, but at the same time how easy it is to forget how resilient they actually are. In fact something I loved about the movie is how it portrays peoples' ability to surprise each other when least expected - and even surprise themselves every once in a while!

There are quite a few other things I could talk about, but I don't think they will help me convey just how good this movie is. I figure that if you're reading this you must be interested so just go for it, there's a good chance you'll enjoy it.