This movie for me is so real. I don't know how the writer and Jodie Foster did it, but somehow they wrote and acted out so realistically the very real feeling, fears, and thoughts so many of us have who have been violently attacked. I am amazed that they got so much of what really happens in the heart and mind of someone who doesn't physically die from an attack like this. I would have thought it impossible to write or act something like this so realistically without personally going through it in real life. So I wonder if maybe they did at some point in their lives because the writers and Jodie Foster did an AMAZING job. I wish I could personally thank the writer and Jodie Foster for doing this "movie" which is actually more of a DOCUMENTARY from my view. Thank you for helping others who see the movie, understand us better and for us(the ones who have been attacked like this and..."survived??"..) thank you for helping us understand ourselves more... or I guess for helping us feel that someone really does understand and really does "get it". I hope it helps the people who knew us before, understand why we can't just put something like this behind us and leave it in the past and understand how it kills the person we were and are now a completely different person and that we will never be the person we once were. I hope it helps the people who knew us before to understand that a person can be killed even if they are still physically alive, dead but still breathing. The person I used to be is dead. It's unrealistic and unfair for people that knew us before to expect us to "put it behind us and leave it in the past" and to expect us to come around and get back to being the person we used to be. That person is as dead and gone as I would be if I had been physically killed.
Thank you writers and thank you Jodie for understanding, or at least making some of us, finally at least FEEL understood. This movie was and still is so very therapeutic to me somehow. Somehow I don't feel so alone and cold or dead inside.