Jose Saramago's Nobel Prize winning novel BLINDNESS is an extended metaphor about the human condition.  We are all blind, Saramago says, and then he shows us in graphic detail what he thinks about human nature.  We are violent, selfish, greedy, weak, and ultimately we will fail each other.  His story, about the sudden onslaught of some unexplained contagious disease that renders everyone (or almost everyone) blind, is metaphoric; it was never meant to be taken as realistic.  This is not a science fiction novel, or a horror story, or even a psychological thriller.  It's a brooding, depressing castigation of the entire human race.

So is it any surprise that the movie doesn't work?  Metaphors are very hard to translate to film.  In the movie, we actually SEE the blindness take over, from one character to the next - and we want to know why.  We see one character apparently immune to the blindness - and we want to know why.  We see the unnamed and unexplained fascistic government throw all of the sick people into some sort of run-down asylum where they are kept away from the "seeing" population by an armed militia - and we want to know why.  We see the filth in the hallways (these people begin defecating on the floor about 30 minutes after arriving at the facility), the brutality, the grotesque violence - and yes, we want to know why.  But Saramago wasn't interested in the details of his plot (thin as it is) - he was interested only in the brutal metaphor he was developing over 300 pages of text.  And the film isn't interested in the plot, either.

I was able to enjoy some of the visual elements of the film, especially after the core characters leave the asylum and venture out into the city.  There is a feeling throughout the film that something important is being said, and I was willing to give that a chance; but beyond a general condemnation of the human race, I'm not sure what that point really is.  Overall, the "plot holes" so many viewers are complaining about are there because the plot doesn't matter.  If you're looking for a movie about what would really happen if everyone in the world suddenly went blind, this isn't it.  If you're looking for a movie about what total pigs we all are . . . well, this will be right up your alley!