Like many here, I missed 'Harsh Realm' when it was first broadcast: It was yet another Fox show that was shot down after a handful of episodes were broadcast. Now that Fox is a 'mainstream' network, it no longer has to take the risks of developing innovative and intelligent programming - goodbye 'X-Files', hello 'The O.C.'...

Anyway, having finally seen this show - 8 episodes, at least - through some minor bit of surfeit, I'm convinced that this show could have gone on to become a postmodern incarnation of Patrick McGoohan's old series 'The Prisoner'. Unfortunately there were legal hurdles: 'Harsh Realm' existed as a comic book before it was a television series, and by the time it had aired, the creators had decided to back out of the deal, and demanded either more money or more credit for a premise that Carter only partially used.

The litigation resulted in more prominent credits being given to creators James Hudnall and Andrew Paquette, but part of the reason for he show's cancellation was that Fox simply didn't want to be bothered with the litigation or whatever payouts they'd be required to hand over to Hudnall and Paquette.

And it's a bit of a shame - 'Harsh Realm' wasn't able to fully establish it's 'mythological' arc in the first 9 episodes, and the show alone could have been a meal ticket for the creators if they hadn't chosen to be greedy: All that was required was a reboot of the comic and more active collaboration with Carter's group. But no. I suppose Hudnall and Paquette had 'dot-com' fever, and wanted to get rich in one fell swoop: Thus, they were instrumental in getting 'their' own show cancelled.

Where are they now, I wonder. Carter's probably still a millionaire, but Hudnall and Paquette? Ever?

As for the show, it's an interesting piece of entertainment, for adherents of both Carter's output and of the old McGoohan series, if not JMS' 'Jeremiah'. One never knows - good sales of this product might result in renewed interest on the part of Fox, Carter, Hudnall and Paquette...

(William Gibson apparently wrote a couple of unproduced episodes, and Carter hinted at possibly bringing it back, after the 'cancellation'.)

After all, worked for 'Family Guy'...