I must preface my review by saying I am not a horror fan, but I am a Hitchcock fan so I wasn't sure whether I'd like The Birds.  I tried to watch it with an open mind.  Even with the dated special effects and annoying electronic bird squawking, it was scary-- especially the scene where they're trapped in the house just waiting for the next bird attack.
However, the script and characters in this film are severely lacking.  The romance between Melanie and Mitch is not only far-fetched but annoying.  What does he see in her?  I usually disagree with Hitchcock in his choice of women; he likes the icy blonde ditzes.  'Tippi' Hedren is a Grace Kelly clone, and I didn't care for Grace Kelly.  Worst acting award goes to the girl who plays Cathy.  I have never seen a more wooden performance in my life.  Amazingly awful.  The rest of the characters weren't much better.  The mother was scarier than the birds (sidenote: there are a lot of creepy characters in this movie- the elevator man is another), but at least she didn't like Melanie either.  Who could like someone with an IQ that low? "Hmm, Lydia told me to pick up Cathy from school immediately, but they're singing a horrible song.  Should I rescue her?  No, I'll smoke a cigarette outside." "Hmm there's a million birds outside.  Let's go outside children!" "Oh my gosh, the gas station's exploding and birds are attacking everything!  Let me just go outside and get a better view from this phone-booth!  Ooh, maybe I can open and close the door randomly!  Here come some birds: open.  Here comes a man who desperately needs my help: close."  "Huh?  I hear vicious birds upstairs?  Why don't I just explore the house alone?!"
Hitchcock overused the green/blue screen in this film.  I can understand using it in the scenes with the attacking birds, but for a quick boating trip across the bay?  It makes Hedren seem impossibly prissy.  "No, there's no way I'm going to actually get on a boat.  There might be some wind that would blow my hair onto my obnoxiously large forehead.  I'll just sit here in the studio."
I think I was more upset that this movie didn't have a point than that it didn't have an ending, although that didn't help things.  It doesn't take a genius to write a story with a million loose ends; it takes a true genius to tie those all together in a believable storyline.
You can hyper-analyze this movie if you want and read into it all sorts of deeper meaning and how the bird attacks are symbolic of the women all fighting over Mitch, but I think that's going too far.  I think many times people read too much into films and turn them into something they're not.  (Though even if the attacks ARE a commentary on the relationship between Melanie and Mitch it still is not a poignant film-- it is too stilted, too wooden, too melodramatic.)  My advice: skip this one and watch Rear Window or The Man Who Knew Too Much instead.