There is a moment in Adrian Lyne's LOLITA that effectively captures the twisted, yet surprisingly innocent feeling that Vladimir Nabokov wanted to portray with his novel. When Lolita, wonderfully played by newcomer Dominique Swain, is rushing up the stairs to say goodbye to Humbert Humbert  (Jeremy Irons), before she leaves for summer camp, you realize that the  look of excitement in Jeremy Irons face, and the nervous posture he has is  that of an innocent child in love.
Indeed it is true that Humbert is a  child at heart, a fact which becomes clear early in the movie, when we  learn a little bit about Humbert's first encounter with love and its  subsequent painful and unexpected loss.
It seems impossible to not  compare Lyne's version with Stanley Kubrick's version, made over 35 years  ago. I have to admit that I am an avid Kubrick fan, and that I always  thought his version of Nabokov's novel, if not faithfully reproduced, was a  classic. So it was that with apprehension (and some morbid curiosity) I  decided to watch Lyne's version. Boy was I blown away.
It is a terrible  thing that our society as a whole, at this day and age, can't see pass the  taboo that apparently clogs the story. It is sad because Lyne's LOLITA is  an excellent and beautiful film in every respect. From Lyne's carefully  crafted visual style, to the outstanding performance given by both Swain  but especially by Irons (this is his movie), to the heart-breaking music  score by legendary composer Ennio Morricone. Everything is in place  here.
It is clear that Lyne has a profound understanding of the novel, he  successfully directs the story in a way the slowly engulfs you and never  seems to fall into the traps that plagued Kubrick's version. There are a  great many things that you will discover in this movie, not the least of  which is the realization that, deep down inside, there is a place in each  and everyone of us where love seems to have no age. In the end you  understand the reasons behind the story, you will see Humbert's joy  reflected in your eyes and his tears will fall down your face, but perhaps  most shocking of all, you will feel like him.
Please, do yourself a favor  and see this movie on DVD. Trimark has done an excellent job by including a  very insightful commentary track by Adrian Lyne, a wealth of deleted scenes  (some of which I wish were on the film), theatrical trailers, and perhaps  the most wonderful feature of all, a casting session with Jeremy Irons and  Dominique Swain, where you see them rehearse a scene, and later get to see  the final scene. Highly recommended.