1.  NOT A HORROR FILM:  This movie is not a horror movie, it is a movie about an idiotic cop (Nicholas Cage as Malus) that tries to find a missing girl on a strange, yet boring, island.

2.  TEDIOUS PLOT:  Since it is not a horror movie, it needs to have something else to make it interesting.  Perhaps an intriguing mystery with questions that the viewer wants answered?

Here is the mystery:

Malus is a cop in California.  A girl from an island near Washington state is missing.  Malus goes to the island to find her.  Nobody on the island knows anything about her.  Malus has some strange dreams about the girl being dead, being drowned, etc. and mysteriously, he also had some visions about this girl in the past.  Neither the viewer nor Malus ever learns any interesting facts about the dissappearance.  Malus wonders around the island asking questions for almost the entire movie and people deny knowing anything about her.  Malus' conversations don't add anything to the plot, they are mostly just filler so that the movie can last the full hour and a half.  We never find out why Malus had the strange visions of the girl.  By the end of the movie, none of the questions are answered satisfactorily.  The mysteries were boring to begin with.  The fact that they are not sufficiently answered makes the viewer feel that they just lost an hour and a half.

3.  AMATEURISH CONTRADICTIONS:  The movie dances between being supernatural and not being supernatural and NEVER explains the connection.  Here is what I mean.  Malus stops a car after a little girl threw a doll out the window.  After stopping the car and interacting with the girl and her mom for a few minutes, a semi truck runs into the car, causing it to burst into flames.  Despite Malus' efforts, he is unable to save the mom and the girl.  He later learns that the bodies were not found.  Sounds eerie and supernatural, eh?  This scene, though not spetacular, probably is what conveys more interest in anything in the film.  But future events never explain what happened there.  The lame conclusion of the film explains that everything was planned and not supernatural, so this scene, the only interesting thing about the movie, is never explained.  That is amateur, terrible, and unsatisfying.

4.  BIZARRE, PAGAN-FEMINIST ISLAND - Perhaps the makers of the movie thought that the movie would be interesting because the island is run by a sadistic sisterhood.  The men apparently have had their tongues cut out and cannot talk.  They are submissive, meak, and pathetic beings.  The women bad mouth the male sex in general, and perhaps the name "Malus" is symbolic for something?  Regardless, it is not very interesting, and does not add to the movie.

5.  FINAL RECOMMENDATION:  You will be better off if you never watch this movie.  Poor Nicholas Cage.  He would be better off if the world forgot that he was a part of this abomination.