Everyone has heard of Gilligan's Island since it first set sail in America's living rooms in September 1964.  Such fans of the show have been waiting for complete season sets for many, many years.  I must say that I, too was thrilled to learn, in September 2003 that Warner-Brothers were planning to release the First Season of Gilligan's Island.  One of their promises, I shall never forget: "We assure that fans will be happy with this set."  I beg to differ.  Below is a comprehensive list of the pros and cons of this DVD set.
Pros:
1. All the episodes are here, in their entire uncut and B&W form, and in the order of original airdate.
2. The rare pilot episode is here, complete with commentary by the creator Sherwood Schwartz.
3. The quality is moderate, although some episodes have a high volume of grain.
4. There is a "play all" for the marathon lovers.
5. Subtitles: In English, French, and Spanish.
6. The price is right.
Cons:
1. Lack of Scene Selections
2. Ridiculous Bonus Features: the pilot with commentary is nice and the trivia is nice, but the rest of the bonus features are stupid.  Also, why the tropical tidbits trivia is only on one episode, I will never know.  Producers could have put different trivia tracks on at least one episode on each side of the disk.
Another thing is the lack of commentaries by any one of the original castaways.  Bob Denver, Dawn Wells, and Russell Johnson could have done a few commentaries on a few of the episodes.  Two possible bonus features that should be considered for the remaining two seasons might be the episode where five of the original castaways guest star on Family Feud, and some of the original commercials used to support the show.
3. Lack of good packaging.  The slipcase and the package itself seems very flimsy to me.  The DVD set does not even come with a booklet that might include actor biographies.  
In my opinion, Gilligan's Island fans would have appreciated a better set like those of The Dick Van Dyke Show, even of it meant raising the price to fifty or sixty dollars.  Hopefully, producers can do a better job on the second and third season sets.  If money restrains the elaborate bonus features, such as actor commentaries, then please, raise the price!  It would be better for fans to have to pay ten to twenty dollars more for a set that would have actor commentaries, than it would for a cheap set with weak bonus features.  Also, may I suggest releasing "The Castaways on Gilligan's Island" and "The Harlem Globetrotters on Gilligan's Island" on DVD?