Barbie movies come in two series:

Spring release of a fairy-themed story (Fairytopia, Mermaidia, Thumbelina, Mermaid Story, etc.)
Autumn release of a fantasy-themed story w/musicals (Diamond Castle, 3 Musketeers, Princess Pauper, etc.).

Barbie in a Fashion Fairy Tale is part of the fantasy themed series and features the requisite musicals and singing.

Barbie in a Fashion Fairy Tale will tick off all the favorites of little girls:  fashion, fun, and Barbie/friends triumphing over obstacles set in their path. The animation is the same as the previous series - you know Barbie will have a best friend brunette, pets will be anthropomorphic, and the villains will be red heads.  As with the previous movies, the characters pretty much look the same, just redressed. As an example, the Aunt is based on the Mariposa Queen Fairy/Merliah's mother in Mermaid Tale.  Kids don't seem to notice the redundancies, though.  Perhaps it even makes it easier for them to 'get into' the stories that come out twice a year.

In this story, Barbie the movie star (having just shot roles such as the Three Musketeers) has several misunderstandings at home and decides to visit her fashion designer Aunt in Paris (and her Aunt's assistant, Marie Aliece (Alisha)). But all is not well with her aunt: a hot dog franchise is taking over the historic fashion building and converting it to a hot dog parlor.  Barbie and Alisha will use the building's history, a special armoir, and one of Alisha's fashions to invoke fashion "Flare-ies" to create a new fashion line and win back the fashion loft from the hot dog vendor.  Meanwhile, an updated (more modern looking) Ken will follow Barbie from America to make up for a misunderstanding.

The movie features a very modern soundtrack - quite different from the more gentle (but generic) songs of movies in the past.  The sing-alongable songs from movies such as the Diamond Castle are now more techno-pop oriented and quite a bit less catchy.  But it does modernize the soundtrack more.

Another change in the series is that Barbie is now playing herself, a modern movie star who has done several movies (all the movies in the past series).  So she is playing herself rather than a character.  Barbie's usual friends and accessories (Ken, Theresa, Sequin, etc.) are there and Barbie gets to wear stylish modern clothing.  And in true fairy tale form, all a dress needs to be special is sparkle, glitter, and a giant light up star at the bustline.

In all, it does have all the elements that little girls love in the Barbie movies. But it has also updated the series and adds some very modern and perhaps more appeal to older girls as well (though I find that unlikely with how silly and overwrought the entire movie can be). Barbie's mantra - be fiercely yourself - is well represented here.

My 7 year old gives this recommendation:  "you should get it because it teaches you about fashion and style.  There's magic and 'flaries' that use flare to fly. And it is fun to dance to."