5 stars on a Cult/Midnight movie scale, although I regretably admit that it is perhaps only a 4 on a popular movie scale (though many sources give it 5).  Dark and forboding atmosphere.  Definitely of its time.  Unfortunantly, a movie like this would unlikely be produced today, for it  doesn't rely on huge celebrities and/or crazy fantastical special effects,  excessively included to meat-up a weak plot and a poor script.  Very much a  suspensful drama.  Mood and atmosphere are key in this film.  The lighting  helps create this feel, so stick with the Black &amp; White version, stay  away from the colorized versions, in which the faulty colors ruin  everything.  The very low budget alotted for the production of this classic  really adds its overall appeal, that is if you haven't already been  conditioned by today's movies to not recognize true art and creativity.  Fans of George Romero (director &amp; co-writer)should also check out  Martin, Dawn of the Dead and Day of the Dead.  Return of the Living Dead  (written by Night of the Living Dead co-writer, John Russo) is also a must  see. This 1968 version of Night of the Living Dead should be included in  every ghoul's movie collection and viewed at least once a year on  Halloween, much in the like tradition of It's a Wonderful Life being viewed  on Christmas.  This movie doesn't contain very much gore (just enough), any  nudity (it's not about that) and very little profanity (I think  "Dammit" is used).  The story and dialogue are great.  A real  eerie and captivating movie if watched in the dark late at night, and it's  a steal for the low prices they charge for this movie.  The soundtrack also  adds to the overall creepy texture.  So what are you waiting for? Order  your copy today!  Get one for a friend!  You will thank me for the rest of  your life...as well as in the afterlife!  Other recommendations: Evil Dead,  Evil Dead II, Army of Darkness, Carnival of Souls (1963?/B&amp;W), Plan 9  From Outer Space. This is my favorite movie of all time, and just to show  that I'm not biased to this genre alone, I'll admit to the fact that that  box-office smash, Titanic, was a very accomplished production, despite all  the teeny-bopper hype affiliated with its weasly leading man, Leonardo  DiCrappio!