*REAL WOMEN HAVE CURVES
Ana: America Ferrera
Carmen: Lupe Ontiveros
Estela: Ingrid Oliu
Mr. Guzman: George Lopez
Jimmy: Brian Sites 
Directed by Patricia Cardoso/ Written by Josefina Lopez/ 93 Minutes (Rated PG-13).
BY ANDREW KOCH
 The central character, Ana, is an Eastern Los Angeles student who throughout the movie proves herself academically so well in high school that she receives a scholarship to Columbia University. Unfortunately, her traditional Mexican mother is trying to keep her working in a fabric shop ironing dresses for a living. Carmen wants her daughter to get married, start a family and become a good Mexican American mother and wife.
  The movie has several important conflicts within the plot. One being the escape Ana makes from her mother and the life Ana does not want to live. The movie also examines Ana's bodily issues and the path to becoming comfortable with herself. The movie proves not that Ana is a gorgeous young lady, but that on the inside and out she is comfortable and pleased with whom she is as a Mexican woman living in Los Angeles.
This movie explores the concept of what society deems women are expected to look like. There exists conflict between Ana and her mother based around the expectation that a woman must be slim and accepting in order to attract an able male. Society's expectations of a female Ana's age are personified through mother Carmen. Carmen believes Ana should loose weight and loose her unique, robust, independent empowering attributes as a female. Thus, becoming more of an object than an actual person.  This objectification does not go well with Ana; in fact it only further motives her to become less of an object and more of real woman with her own thoughts, feeling and curves.  Scenes such as the sex with Jimmy and the naked fabric shop dancing only help illustrate how far she has come as a woman in the movie.
This movie becomes very dramatic and serious many times because of a clash/ intersection of race, gender and social/ economic class. To Ana, the clash of these functions as a barrier to achieve what she thinks she can do in life. Living in The USA as a minority can make life tough at times. One may feel lonely and mistreated frequently in life. This minority status is motivation to do well and to make her people proud she can succeed and escape the life of which many Mexican American's are unable to do. Her social and economic class also serves as an entity that holds her back. She must work and help support the family. This limits her time to do other things and also severely limits what "means" she has to progress in life. Ana's gender also brings her some hardships within her community and within her life. She as a Mexican American woman is expected by tradition/customs to finish high school and start a family. This intersection of her gender, Mexican heritage, and relatively poor lifestyle provides a barrier to disempowered her as an able female. Ana brilliantly asses each mechanism of this restricting entity and chooses to push way out by being confident, hard-working, intelligent and very unrelenting.