Wrestlemania 23 was one of the better one's in the past few years! Wrestlemania 22 had a pretty decent card but the main events were a bit lacking and a few of the matches could of had a bit more! Wrestlemania 21 on the other hand kind of had a similar card to 23! Except it was also lacking good main events and to me it just didn't have a great atmosphere!

back to wrestlemania 23!

The MITB match was without a doubt the best of the 3 in the past years! It had the best ladder spots mostly with jeff hardy and orton and it actually included some nice ring work (10/10)

Next was kane vs. khali: just watch it because of kane's entrance which was cool and the powerslam! What this match needed was a stipulation like hook on a chain match or something! skip (3.5/10)

Then came benoit vs. mvp l i like both of these guys great all around match but i was surprised there was no crossface! (8/10)

Next is wtf undertaker vs. batista? this was an awesome title match but way to early in the show very entertaining and fun to see taker get the title if he lost detroit would have rioted because they were pissed about the conclusion of the main envent! (9/10) should have been main event

next is ecw 8 man tag! all this match needed was the exrtreme rules stipulation (which there using tonight on ecw) and this match would have been awesome! but still a solid tag team match! (7.5/10)

battle of billionaires: very entertaing it wasn't a wrestling match it was entertainment! shane hits the van terminator stone cold stuns everyone except lashley entertaing with a funny ending! (8.5/10)

women's championship: would have been great if mikie and victoria were in it just skip! (1/10) not even that high

main event: i'm just like everyone else but i can't stand hime either! but this match had cool entraces and michaels ring gear was one of my all time favorites! this match was a wrestling classic! michaels deserved to win he pulled out all the stops! he better win at backlash! taker won and it's been 4 years for him same with michaels he should have won plain and simple! but it was still a fantastic match! (9.5/10)

there u have it wrestlemania 23 was better than the spotfest last year but it just needed 3 more things to be one of the best of all time! still recommended great night!