This is NOT a review of the mini-series Spartacus: Gods of the Arena because I actually dislike movie and TV reviews that ignore the products we are supposed to be discussing when we are sent things through the Vine Program like this DVD.  If you want to know my opinion about the show, go to IMDb; this is about the DVD.

I really don't like the case these came in.  The series plastic cover offers some protection but inside the two DVDS (yup, just two, it is only 6 episodes remember) are slide into side panels.  This makes it far more likely that the DVD may be scratched just taking it in and out.  Be careful because once you scratch it, your DVD player may stop playing, skip forward too far, or if you are luckily just skip that scene.  The case is designed to resemble a little hardcover book with only a few pages.  Give the cost of this product it would have been nice to have more pages and better protection for the DVDs.

The DVDs themselves contain four episodes on the first, two episodes and special features on the second.  This pleased me because I find it so wasteful to have two episodes of any TV show per DVD.  Given the state of technology, they could probably fit all of this on one disc but it's better than four discs which I've seen for other 6 episode series.

The Bonus Features number 10 and range from production information, to a all too brief look at costuming, and some details about the fighting that I'm sure attracted several viewers to the show itself.  The bloopers numbered 11 in total and were particularly memorable but perhaps that is a testament to the seriousness of the actors and the short timeline for their work.  The convention panel is really cuts scenes from the ComicCon 2010 Spartacus panel that had writer Stephen Knight along side actors Lucy Lawless, John Hannah, and Viva Bianca.  Therefore Ms Bianca says nothing on this feature because she is not part of the prequel.

Given the shortness of each "series" I'd say wait and see if there is a three series (or more) edition after the show has run it's course on Starz.  In theory you could show Spartacus' rebellion over three seasons depending on how much detail you wished to give it but I suspect they may try to do his rebellion in one season.