This is a monumental movie !!! Altogether, it is a rich, fast-paced, deeply emotional action and adventure movie with good fundamentals and a focus on efficiently getting back in time... what else to say ??
First of all, the beginning ("Houston this is Condor..."), with the huge, friendly Stayput  character hovering close to the earth, is in my opinion, the most beautiful scene in the history of cinema !!!  Then, the next sequence "Do you smoke after sex ? I don't know I never looked !" was like a shock for me (and Austin wears such a beautiful nightgown) !!! Anyway the whole scene with Liz Hurdley (Vanessa  ) is absolutely fantastic. How funny when she starts showing her machine-gun jubblies !!!!! Another great scene for history !!!! Then follows another delightful sequence when Austin realizes that he is single and starts looking for a new wife, naked in the lobby and in the Lift of the hotel .... He says what he thinks to everybody. Then other great scenes follow (the swimmer etc.), and the adventure continues in the Seattle headquarters of Dr Evil (the Starbuck tower). Dr Evil has a little clone called Mini-Me, a smaller version of himself, sort of thing. Dr Evil also has a secret underground bunker, located in an extinct volcano, in the middle of the locean. He has a "Time Machine", and he has a problem reaching year 1999 (that was the other millenium anyway, the one of the mad cow.....). No problems using the machine after that though !!!!!! Other interesting phrases: "do you know how we get warm in russia ? We play chess" -- so disappointing for Austin of course. A bit later there is some fighting, with an escalation in the weapons and the threats. Finally Austin is saved by Shaggy who drives a wonderful car.... A bit later on we discover another colorful character: Fat Bastard (I want my baby back ribs !!!). The idea about the stool samples is just brilliant !!! And the story about the Mojo is also funny. Not even mentioning the rocket looking like shaft and balls !!!! And the lovely colours on Austin's plane !!! Finally, the end is also fantastic, first with the great sequence when Dr Evil says he'll get Austin Powers (well deserved...), and then with the funny call to help from an obviously British phone booth...
So there are plenty of funny bits and pieces in this movie, plenty of great details and plenty of vocabulary too (I must admit I did not know the word "to shag" before...). "Visual quotes" are also used a lot... Special effects are impressive, but one of them is not realistic though: that is when Vanessa the fembot crushes a bottle of champagnie; in fact it looks like the bottle breaks itself... It is strange as I have never seen glass break mysteriously like that, in a house I mean.
We also get some advice on the dangers or usefulness of almonds, flu shots etc. Liz Hurley and Heather Grahame  are so pretty. Dialogues and voices are great.
A fantastic movie altogether.