EVOLUTION: A GRAND documentary:
Review by Danzil Monk

Produced by Dr. Carl Werner and Debbie Werner, Written by Carla Azzara and Carl Werner and narrated by Andres Williams, as an examination of the popular ideas about evolution. The filming took place over a period of twelve years and the quality of this first in a series of documentaries was well worth the wait. Professionally and intelligently put together this documentary is another embarrassment to evolutionist and their reaction speaks volumes.

The Documentary begins by giving a brief but revealing history of "majority view science" that was proven to be wrong. It points out that the law of "Spontaneous Generation", the "Acquired Characteristics law", the "law of Use" and the "Law of Disuse" (which Darwin believed and which was falsified by August Weismann), were all proven to be incorrect.

Spontaneous Generation while held by the vast majority of scientist was proven false by Francesco Redi and Louis Pasteur. The narrator pointed out that we could learn from the failures of the past.... And that all scientific theories and laws should be open to scrutiny, even evolution", and he is right.
Early on in the program two evolutionist scientist are shown acknowledging that scientist (including evolutionist scientist) are prone to bias and holding on to old idea.

Dr. Monroe Strickberger states "Scientist are just as much prone to holding on the old ideas as anyone else." Dr. Kevin Padian says, "It comes down to what you bring to the questions to begin with. If you don't want to see things, you're not going to see them, and we're all guilty of not wanting to see certain things".
The narrator quite correctly pointed out that even though the laws of use and disuse were proven wrong, they are still being incorporated into evolutionary explanations today. Darwin's view of "Adaptation" is way over extended as a viable proof of evolution. Lizards can't grow fur when they are placed in a cold environment for many generations. Thus direct adaptation is an out dated view that many are trying to distance themselves from. Yet in the program an evolutionist professor is shown attempting to explain how some form of direct adaptation can occur as a result of DNA getting signals from outside and those signals are being translated through stress in the body.

FISH
While fish fossils are by far the most abundant among the many forms of available fossils there are no transitional forms to be found among them. Dr. John Long of the Museum Victoria of Australia acknowledges that the abundance of fish fossils has not given us any answers as to where the first jawed fish came from. He acknowledges that there is still much debate among paleontologist over the origin and interrelationships of the major groups of fishes. They don't know where the bone fish came from.
The Narrator points out that every fish family appears in the fossil record suddenly.

BATS
Dr. Gunter Viohl, Curator of the Jura Museum in Germany, Dr. Nicholas Czeplewski of the Oklahoma Museum of Science and Natural History, Dr. Joerg Habersetzer of the Senckenberg Museum of Natural History in Germany and Dr. Gary Morgan of the Museum of Natural History of New Mexico (all evolutionist) are seen admitting that evolutionist have no evidence to support bat evolution.
The documentary addressed Darwin's view of Natural Selection and also Neo-Darwinism and why they cannot be used as proof of evolution. And also addressed is Darwin's dependence on fossils for his theory of evolution while at the same time acknowledging that the available fossils of his day were not sufficient to prove evolution because there was not enough verity of fossils available back then. Yet today with the abundant fossil record that we have (over 200 million worldwide), there is still no evidence supporting evolution.

It addresses the "Similarities theory" and easily showed why similarity does not prove evolution.
Dr. Annalisa Berta of the University of San Diego and Dr. Irina Koretsky, of Howard University acknowledge that Seals and Sea Lions while looking very similar are from different families of mammals and have no know transitional forms identifying their ancestors.

The Australian Mole and the African Mole are considered by evolutionist to be unrelated even though they are strikingly similar.  Sharks and Dolphins while similar in appearance are not from the same family; one is a mammal and the other a fish. The Australian Marsupial Mouse and the North American Mouse look the same and yet are considered unrelated by evolutionist.

DINOSAURS
Dr. Paul Sereno, Paleontologist at the University of Chicago, Dr. Angela Milner, London NH Museum and Dr. David Weishampel, Paleontologist at Johns Hopkins University are all shown giving statements that dinosaur transitional forms are admittedly missing. The narrator also notes that many museums like the Chicago Field Museum even mislead visitors by showing charts with various dinosaurs linked together as if they had proof of common ancestry when in fact there is no fossil evidence.

WHALES
The Whale evolution that is often touted by evolutionist as the best evidence for evolution is intelligently refuted in the documentary by showing the lack of unity in the various evolutionist views concerning whale evolution and by pointing out the weak arguments for so called transitional forms that they so heavily rely on.
Dr. Annalisa Berta, San Diego State University for instance is shown claiming that there are fossil whale specimens that show us intermediates in the evolution of whales and that they actually had feet and walked on land. Dr. Kevin Padian touted the whale transitional display at the University of Michigan's Natural History Museum and where such supposed transitional fossils as Ambulocetus is displayed with a list of other supposed transitional form as evidence of the whale evolution. But they are not hard physical fossils but rather an artist's rendition of what they think they would look like. It also show evolutionist like Dr. Phil Gingerich admitting that Ambolocetus may not belong in the main line of the whale family.
Rodhocetus is claimed to be a great example of a whale transitional fossil by Dr. Annalisa Berta and Dr. Taseer Hussain. But the discrepancy between the Museum drawings of Rodhocetus and the actual fossils is carefully pointed out by the film which even shows Dr. Phil Gingerich who was responsible for the discovery and reconstruction of Rodhocetus, being questioned about his choice to add a fluke when there was no hint of on the actual fossil. In the footage Dr. Gingerich admits that he "speculated it might have had a fluke." He is also show acknowledging that since then they have found the forelimbs, the hands, and the front arms and shows convincingly that Rodhocetus did not have a fluked tail. Yet you can still find Rodhocetus in museums with the fluke on it. The film explains that the only real evidence for the whale transitions seems to be the artist drawings but the actual fossil record does not support any transitional evidence.

BIRDS
Since there is no transitional evidence available that explains how dinosaurs got here, evolutionist have been forced to find an explanation for their existence and their "disappearance". The documentary explains how evolutionists have turned to the bird family for help to unravel the dinosaur mystery. According to the evolutionist, birds are the descendents of dinosaurs. In the documentary, Dr. Gunter Viohl is shown haling Archaeopteryx as evidence of dinosaur to bird evolution. Yet Dr. Peter Wellnhofer, Bavarian State Collection of Paleontology, Munich, points out that the museum models that include dinosaur scales on the head are hypothetical and speculative. He also expressed his doubt that scales were present on Archaeopteryx. Other evidence was presented to refute the dinosaur connection to Archaeopteryx. Additionally, the false and misleading tendencies of museums to present a dinosaur connection to birds by using misleading tactics such as adding feathers to dinosaur sculptures is strongly objected to by evolutionist Dr. Storrs Olson of the Smithsonian Institute in an open letter to Dr. Peter Raven, Secretary of National Geographic Society Washington DC, calling it, propaganda, hype, wishful thinking, Melodramatic, nonsense, spurious, fantasia and a hoax.
He further states:
"The idea of feathered dinosaurs and the theropod origin of birds is being actively promulgated by a cadre of zealous scientists acting in concert with certain editors at Nature and National Geographic who themselves have become outspoken and highly biased proselytizers of the faith. Truth and careful scientific weighing of evidence have been among the first casualties in their program, which is now fast becoming one of the grander scientific hoaxes of our age."

A Liaoning Fossils of China (Confuciusornis) was examined by Dr. Timothy Rowe, an evolutionist Paleontologist at the University of Texas (CAT scan laboratory). Dr. Rowe states that he thought that the way he received the specimen was how it came out of the ground, but after scanning it he realized that it had been doctored. Another such fossil (Archaeoraptor), was brought to Dr. Rowe by a scientist from the National Geographic Magazine. But when scanned it was discovered that it too was a fake made up of some 26 fossil bones from five animals including Dinosaurs and birds. In spite of Dr. Rowe's informing the National Geographic Magazine about the forgery they still soon after held a press conference in which they announced the discovery of Archaeoraptor with no reference to the discovered fraud. Three months after Dr. Rowes exposure of the fraud to NGM they still published its story on Archaeoraptor claiming that it was a "flying dinosaur" a "missing link" and the best evidence that birds evolved from dinosaurs.

In addition to the professionalism and intelligence that the documentary displays, the embarrassing comments and underhanded attempts at deception on the part of some of the evolutionist scientist or science institutions is no doubt what has the evolutionist community up in arms about this film. It should be noted that it was an evolutionist who exposed the National Geographic fossil hoax in the documentary. It was also an evolutionist who wrote the open letter addressing the dishonesty of Nature and National Geographic. And finally, while viewing the film, there is no apparent indication that any of the featured scientists were being forced or tricked into making their comments. What is apparent is that they assumed that their comments would be accepted without scrutiny or exposure to a counter opinion. It seems that when the playing field has been leveled for both perspectives to be honestly presented, many evolutionist become extremely agitated and hostile. Since the facts do speak for themselves when they are truthfully presented, evolutionist should be concerned when a documentary such as this is made available to the public. I highly recommend this excellent film.