"M" (1931), Fritz Lang's first talkie, is a genre-bending film that blends the police procedural and the serial killer movie.  Its foci are the actions and attempted elusion of a suspected serial child killer and pedophile named Franz Becker (Peter Lorre).  Considering the historical and political context of the film, it can be argued that "M" is a thinly veiled attack on the Nazi Party, the party Lang's wife would eventually join.  It is certainly the case that his film from just two years later, "The Testament of Dr. Mabuse," contained characters that were meant to attack Nazis.

Supposedly based on a real-crime story of a contemporary German serial killer (whether it was Haarmann, Grossmann, Kurten, Denke, or someone else, we know not), Lang's picture takes on the visual airs of noir, well before it was a common cinematographic technique.  The efforts to catch Becker have very much frustrated and stifled the underground criminal pursuits of an unnamed German city (there are several clues that it is Berlin).  To counteract this, the underground decides to launch its own effort at catching Becker so their business can return to its erstwhile prosperity.

After several montages visually emphasizing Peter Lorre's chubby ephebic face and the long, sleek, intimidating architecture so common in German Expressionist cinema, the ruffians hatch a scheme that eventually catches Becker.  They lead him into the basement of the office building in which they tracked him down, where a kangaroo court of criminals is waiting for him.  A blind peddler who confirms Becker's identity having recognized one of the first musical leitmotifs in film history, Becker's idiomatic whistling of Grieg's "In the Hall of the Mountain King" while walking up and down the streets of the city prowling for new potential victims.  It is at this point where Becker gives one of the greatest monologues in the history of cinema in which he expresses that he has a deeply innate, uncontrollable compulsion to do what he does, that he simply cannot help it.  Right as the vengeance of mob mentality is about to strike out angrily against Becker, the police burst in on the whole ordeal having been informed of their location by one of the criminals left behind to take the fall for the rest of them.  "M" ends in a courtroom with a shot of the judges that are to hear Becker's case.  However, a couple of the mothers in the courtroom are quick to notice that not even justice will bring back their children.