Everyone has already described this show well - my comment is only re: the people.

First, I feel sorry for Karen Glenn and all the terrible things people are saying about her.  She is gossipy and judgmental (she's southern!), but I admired how hard she worked - and, her kids are fantastic! So much better adjusted than the Clune children, so she must be doing something right.  in the show, the Clunes say they were more focused on each other than their kids in "2001', whereas Karen talks about being so bonded with her children she misses them when they leave for school.  she is pretty insensitive to Logan's feelings about the animals, though, and I felt very sorry that his mother couldn't acknowledge his feelings. (logan was such a cute, sensitive and yet capable kid- i hope she hasnt squelched that as he has grown.) She did not relate well to her husband, but he seemed liked an idiot and would have driven me crazy.  bottom line - she's bad but not the witch everyone makes her out to be.

The Clunes were intolerable - with the exception of the older son, who somehow ended up a mellow, hard working kid amongst a group of brats that should not be unleashed in society.  The family did stick together, but the children were obviously not raised by anything resembling a good parent.  the other great thing about the Clunes was the mother cranking out fantastic baked goods that would be hard to make in a 2001 kitchen. she was phenomenal.  the husband was totally obnoxious (the still was brilliant, however.) my favorite part was how he was convinced he was deathly ill and needed to protein-load, but when the doctor visited him, he was told that he actually came into the project fat & out of shape and the only thing going on with his health, which had actually improved from his weight loss, was he wasnt drinking enough water!  the Clunes were the text book example of fat, grubby, whining, self-absorbed Americans (although not native)

so, the Glenns and the Clunes both need extensive therapy.

 everyone loves the Brooks, of course.

the bottom line is this is mostly a show about the personality dynamics of these people with some frontier stuff thrown in!  a guilty pleasure, for sure.