Growing up as a teenager in Wales or anywhere in the UK seems like a far different experience than growing up here in America.  As with many British films depicting "coming of age" such as "Wish You Were Here" to "Trainspotting", there is always a feeling that you are missing something because there is a underlying cultural difference that you can never quite pinpoint.  Submarine has some of this, but not as much as other films of this type.

There are quite a few vibes you get when watching "Submarine", which is kind of expected, since there was nothing really "new" in the film, it seemed to borrow styles from other films. I guess the strongest vibe you feel is that it is like "Rushmore", this is true, especially the narrative style. I also got the vibe from Ang Lee's "The Ice Storm" as much of the movie deals with Oliver's parent's relationship, his mother's affair, and how they handle the situation.  This is reflected on his own relationship with his new girlfriend.  It's hard to talk about this film without giving to much away, so I won't.

In case you were wondering if I liked the film, I did. It had the usual indie quirkiness, plus there was one point in the movie that they were lighting flares, sparklers and setting things on fire that reminded me of the Snow Patrol video for "Run" as Oliver tosses a flaming bicycle into the water.  What I did find lacking however is a good soundtrack. There only appeared to be music by a singer-songwriter named Alex Turner, and I could take it or leave it. Maybe he is big in Wales, I don't know.  Since the movie took place in an undetermined time in the 80's (imDb says it's 1986), the music choices are abundant , but I'm sorry to say that there probably was no budget for music in this movie. Music probably would have made this movie a bit more enjoyable, just look at Rushmore's outstanding soundtrack. You remember the movie just as much for the music as the movie. That could also have been a director's decision to keep the soundtrack minimalist, I don't know. I have not the Special Feature "The Making of Submarine" - maybe that will clue me in. Maybe I will also learn about the prominence of the four colors throughout the film that some of the characters wear - blue, red, yellow and black - The most obvious being  Yasmine in her prominent red coat.

I find that most of the movies that hit my DVD player lately are from the Weinstein Company (in this case there are seven other companies involved as who produced the film), it seems that they have the "pulse" on good indie entertainment right now, plus their movies seemed to win a lot of Golden Globes. I mention the production company in case other people feel the same way I do.