My expectations for this film were that I could enjoy upbeat dance routines to the FULL VERSIONS of the late 70s music that I loved to hate growing up and that the quality of the film-making would demonstrate some of the talent that Steven Soderbergh showed in movies such as "Sex, Lies, and Videotapes" and "Pleasantville."

I also was not expecting epic scenes or a script that would have lines that I would be quoting years from now. As it is, I cannot recall a single line from it.

What I got was very mundane aerobics that did not last an entire song and that were performed by completely vacant thoroughly bored zombies who were cast as strippers despite being unable to respectably fill out a G string. I love the Matt Bomer from "White Collar" and have no idea who the guy who supposedly was him on the scene.

Even young Daniel Radcliffe puts as much effort into his current projects, which are radically different than Harry Potter, as he did into the role that made him famous. Also, "Equus" showed us that Radcliffe can fill out a g string quite nicely.

Soderbergh could have gotten more realism and better performers scouting actual male strip clubs.

On top of this, the whole film had a feeling of being shot at someone's condo over a long weekend. I do not know what one calls it when people read lines with little or no emotion, but it ain't acting and not getting one decent performance or turning what you filmed into something watchable ain't directing.

I sincerely would not hire Soderbergh to videotape a dog show after seeing bis below-amateur work in every aspect of this steaming pile of celluloid. He can also forget about me watching ANYTHING that he does in the future.

This is not to mention that Channing Tatum has absolutely no magic, and that the "script" did not reveal enough about him or any other character to get the audience involved in their stories. Further, it is hard to believe that Tatum's lugnut of a character has enough charm or overall insight to be the Yoda of the group.