Frailty revolves around a serial killer called the "God's Hands Killer" and a man named Fenton Meeks ( Matthew McCoughaney) that claims to know the true identity of the killer. Fenton walks into the office of FBI agent Wesley Doyle ( Powers Boothe)and tells a story that he claims will shed some light on the case. The story goes back to Fenton's childhood, and revolves around him (Matt O Leary)and his younger brother Adam ( Jeremy Sumpter) raised by their father( Bill Paxton). One night, their father says he is visited by an angel that was sent from God. The angel says God has a mission for him. The mission is for him and his two sons to kill demons disguised as humans. Adam, loves his dad, and is eager to assist him. Fenton however, refuses to participate and sees it as murder. Throughout the whole film, the viewer must ask themselves - Is the father really doing God's work, or he is out of his mind?

Frailty is probably one of the best films that I have ever seen. If I had to make a list of my ten favorite films of all time, Frailty would definately be on it. The film's story unfolds briliantly because the focus keeps switching from the present conversation between Matthew McConaughey and Powers Boothe, back to the boys' childhood with their father. It is all tied together wonderfully, and culminates in one of the best endings I have ever seen. It will literally shock you. The film overall is an intelligent horror film that offers a whole new take on a serial killer. It is not your everday pointless Hollywood slasher film. It uses the characters' emotions and what they went through, to drive the story. I also love the controversial take on religion that the story offers. Bill Paxton did an amazing job in his directorial debut! The two young actors Adam ( Jeremy Sumpter) and Fenton ( Matthew O' Leary) were the main reason for the film's success. Paxton successfully manages to make them give the most convincing performance possible. Their performances make what the boys went through very convincing. Matthew McConaughey and Powers Boothe were also great.

Frailty was flawless in my eyes. The story unfolds very well, the ending was outstanding, and the performances were all great. The DVD offers an outstanding featurette that takes you into the making of the film. It was very interesting to see the process that went into making the film.

A solid 5/5...