If, you thought that James Dean died to young.  Laird Cregar (1913-1944) at 31, was just getting started on a stellar career.  His film career was capped by his definitive Jack the Ripper role in The Lodger (1944). Investing the psychotic role, it is intense with gripping realism. He led a brilliantly seasoned cast with Merle Oberon and George Sanders. His death scene in the film, was one of the Greatest ever in any film and you will never forget it, but it would forever stereotype him as a villain. Unfortunately, his early death robbed film audiences of seeing what course Laird's career would have taken. Sure enough, his last celluloid offering in Hangover Square (1945) was as another despicable character with murder on its maniacal mind. Top-lining a cast that included Linda Darnell (as an object of his affection), and George Sanders, he portrayed a temperamental composer who suffers from a split personality disorder and, prone to periodic blackouts, and commits brutal murders. Another compelling death scene had his mad character wildly pounding out a concerto while the room around him goes up in flames and the ceiling crashes down on him.

Laird's obsession with avoiding the inevitable stereotype as a "heavy heavy" and wistful pursuit of a romantic leading man career compelled him to go on a reckless, unsupervised crash diet (from 300 lbs to 200 lbs), which is evident by his drastically trimmed-down look in his last film. This proved too strenuous on his system and he was forced to undergo surgery for a severe stomach disorder. His 31-year-old heart gave out on the morning of December 9, 1944, only days after his operation.
I found The Undying Monster the weakest of the Three Films.  With its' main players being destine to be "B" actors of the small TV screen, except Heather Angel but she turns in a "B" performance in this film.  A Wolf Man wannabe that does not come close to top horror film, which is a true Classic, as only Universal Studios could make.  Any other Werewolf film is just pale by comparison to The Wolf Man with Lon Chaney Jr..
Bottomline this is a must have Collection for the true Horror/Drama/Thriller Fan.