Jules Dassin's direction and Mutz Greenbaum's beautiful, expressionistic photography make Night and the City a masterpiece of the film noir genre.  The story takes us through the tightly-controlled underworld of 1950 London's East End operated by an assortment of self-serving, low-lives eager to cash in on the slightest opportunity to hustle, sham or slam their way to the top.

The film begins and ends with restless, unscrupulous Harry Fabian; "An artist without an art" played by Richard Widmark, dodging pursuers, fleeing like a rat though a maze of dark streets. Quick-witted Harry desperately wants to realize his grandiose scheme of becoming a big-time wrestling promoter. Always on the run, carrying a sack of lies and deception possibly bestowed by the Olympian Hermes himself, he scurries through the movie along winding, treacherous streets and alleyways, while hastily creating the masterpiece of a lifetime. But when all else fails, he too is capable of making the supreme sacrifice to help his girlfriend Mary by executing the final con of his career.

Underworld figures in Night and the City are cold and calculating, yet they are also real people: hard, but vulnerable.  Absent are the emotionless psychopaths of modern film, possessing an inexhaustible supply of ammunition loaded by tireless fiends with superhuman ability to snuff out life without remorse. We see the major characters in Night and the City, Harry Fabian, Kristo, Helen and Philip Nosseross, as frail human beings in an anything-goes wrestling match with the vicissitudes of life, "scheming their way through unpredictable circumstances." (DVD commentary) The struggle against fate always lays them open to defeat, because of a tragic flaw, inner weakness, or simply being too smart or crooked for their own good. Motivated by greed and ambition with a slosh of conceit, they believe life is unfair, and owes them a big score.  Capable of genuine affection, they love "not wisely, but too well."

Gene Tierney's role as Mary Bristol, Fabian's all-forgiving girlfriend, is disappointingly small for such a great talent; she exists only on the periphery. Controversy surrounds her singing `debut' in one club scene. It was dubbed-in for the British version, but there is a veil of uncertainty surrounding the American version. A sample of her singing voice can be heard in the jail scene in "That Wonderful Urge" 1948. Let the viewer decide. Mary serves as the unwilling patron of Fabian's artifice; a significant source of ready cash, which he continuously purloins; and subject of the one good deed he attempts, presenting himself as an offering. Dassin's Fabian is a scapegoat for the sins of the world: greed, ambition, conceit. Cornered by Kristo's men, he expresses remorse to an old woman in a beautifully, composed shot strikingly reminiscent of Michelangelo's "Pieta".

The highlight of the movie is a King Kong vs. Godzilla style clash between two titan wrestlers fighting to prove the superiority of their style and values. This after-hours, out of control, grudge match, between Gregorius, master of the Greco-Roman style, and The Strangler, champion of the faked spectacle we see today, is arguably one on the best fight scenes ever filmed. The commentary for Night and the City is excellent providing a rich background of the script, actors careers, and the life and times of Jules Dassin.