By the time this album came out, the Spice Girls were everywhere. They were on every magazine cover, they were on lollipops, books, they even had several series of dolls as well as 5 #1 hit songs. This album only added to it & to this day has sold over 15 million copies worldwide. Face it, they sold more records than anyone since the Beatles & no one has yet to sell more than the Spice Girls did. They are a landmark in pop music, a legacy & without them, there would be no Britney or Christina.
01. Spice Up Your Life (10/10)
Yet another #1 hit for the girls, this song has great lyrics. And it was a clever way of marketing them. I was impressed by the video, it is very good. Great song.
02. Stop (10/10)
The one song that didn't reach #1 in the UK. I love this one. Geri's vocals are in my opinion the best part of this song. She sounds so sweet & perfect in her verses. Catchy lyrics...a perfect pop song.
03. Too Much (10/10)
One of my fav songs by them of all time. Just like 2 Become 1. I love the message & story behind this one. When you have it, it's too much...when you don't, it's not enough. GREAT lyrics.
04. Saturday Night Divas (10/10)
Another favorite of mine. I love Melanie C's part in the bridge. Her voice here amazes me. Emma's verses are also perfect. Nice song with original, different verses. Love it!
05. Never Give Up On The Good Times (10/10)
Alot of fans agree this would have been a great single. This is a great song with a great message to everyone. Especially to the girls. Be safe & don't get pregnant...live young while you can.
06. Move Over (8/10)
The Pepsi song, but it's great overall. Kind of a filler on this album, but its smooth rythm and raw vocals make up for it. Although I prefer the other Pepsi song "Step To Me" over this one. It is available on the Japanese version of this album.
07. Do It (9/10)
Another song with a great message! My mom didn't think so when this album first came out, but I agreed with everything they are saying & I still do. "Rules are meant to be broken, do what suites you, not what they want you to do."
08. Denying (10/10)
Reminds me of my ex boyfriend denying he was actually gay. This is one of my favorites. "You ain't foolin nobody but yourself." So true.
09. Viva Forever (10/10)
Gorgeous! Beautiful lyrics & melody. Saying goodbye to true love...I can relate to this deeper than alot of the other songs here. This song actually gives me chills, it's a haunting song. One of their best.
10. The Lady Is A Vamp (7/10)
Not one of my favorites, but it IS different. And it's a great way to end the album just like a concert..."Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that you enjoyed the show!"
Overall this album is just as good as the original with just as much spice as the last. Geri, Emma, Mel C, Mel B & Victoria all have equal vocals on this one & they all sound amazing nonetheless. Actually this album is probably my favorite out of all three, and I do LOVE all three. So if you don't have this already, buy it used or something. It is fun. It makes you dance, cry & think alot. Not just a soundtrack, this is an ALBUM. Get it!