I definitely recommend this product.

ALOT has changed about Facebook, and the internet itself, since I wrote this piece. It is now outdated. The Egypt conflict happened pretty much directly after I wrote this piece. Anyway, I will repeat myself, THIS PIECE OF WRITING IS NOW OUTDATED. The world has changed profoundly even in the last 30 days.

"Facebook" 1/24/11
by Rachel Mangieri

'It all cascading into technology, the complexities of being until you must come down, you MUST come down to relax, step down to my world, tune into the colors, all every little freaking coincidence of all the people we know and love ON FACEBOOK all is happening ON FACEBOOK not "the" Facebook but Facebook, with all its problems and complaints and saying "Oh screw that Facebook movie, that's so stupid, I don't want to see that" exactly like that, I'm unable to believe the feeling distilled from this movie, "The Social Network," the movie that shifts lives that introduces you to the "Time Magazine" 2010 person of the year MARK ZUCKERBERG, the CONNECTOR the man (boy?) who connected one tenth of the world's population in seven years, the magic number, seven and three, my lucky numbers, being a Cancer (if you want to talk astrology, something I am far too involved with). Facebook, the wide open plane of offices, no cubicles, no offices, not even the creator HIMSELF has an office, the "Facebook CEO, Bitch" business card holder, the place where they hold meetings in Palo Alto, the conference room, a glass box in the midst of this huge, huge array of computers all updating posting linking chaining our soul, Mark Zuckerberg is BUDDHIST, caring, he just cares. When he and his friends were sitting around, thinking about Facebook, the connective tissue, they thought; why hasn't anyone done this before. The internet held the possibility, the capability of the connection of nearly 600 million people. Mark says, "The craziest thing to me in all this is that I can remember having these conversations with my friends when I was in college. We would just sort of take it as an assumption that the world would get to the state it is now. But, we figured, we're just college kids. Why were we the people who were most qualified to do that? I mean, that's crazy!" he goes on. As time magazine says, "We have entered the Facebook age, and Mark Zuckerberg is the man who brought us here." Mark Zuckerberg was born in 1984, the same year that the first Macintosh computer came out. This makes him 26 years old as of the beginning of 2011. Mark had a star-wars themed bar mitzvah. He is a "precocious computer programmer." Now Wikipedia bills him as "an American Computer scientist, software developer, and philanthropist best known for creating the social networking site Facebook, of which he is CEO and president.

Mark Zuckerberg. The "inventor" of Facebook. Making stuff happen. Every day writing code for his creation, never giving up. He gave up a million dollar deal to sell Facebook to yahoo in "the Facebook's early days. Giving up all this money because he DOES NOT CARE ABOUT MONEY. He dropped out of Harvard University to create Facebook. He drives an Acura when he could drive a Bentley. The time article says an Acura is...the equivalent of an undershirt to him. Facebook headquarters now reside in Palo Alto, California. Dropped out of Harvard in 2004. CEO/President of Facebook, 24% shareholder in 2010. Sean Parker, the founder of Napster, owns a 7% share in the company. Seven. The magic number. Mark Zuckerberg is the world's youngest billionaire. His hometown is Dobbs Ferry, New York. New York, the center of it all. As of 2010, Mark was valued at six point nine billion dollars. THE SAME NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THIS WORLD.'

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1886778892">The Saturn Game</a>