(Note: This review is specifically for the 2010 Blu-ray release)

As with most fans of this film, I watched "The Private Eyes" on home video and cable in the early 80's.  My sisters and I couldn't get enough of it, and to this day our conversations are peppered with quotes from the movie ("Neers!  Neers!")  I remember all of Tim Conway's throw-away one-liners, the spooky man in black, and the frightening opening of the sarcophagus.

Now with kids of my own, I was pleasantly surprised to see a 2010 release of "The Private Eyes" on Blu-ray.  It's been a while since I spent $30 on a single movie on home video, but with Halloween approaching, I was curious to see how the movie held up, and if my kids would enjoy it.  Having spent a few weeks with the disc, I can say it was worth every penny.

First, let me address the quality of the disc itself.  As a low-budget, independent film from the early 1980's, I didn't have high expectations for the video quality, which only made the excellent video quality of this release that much more enjoyable.  I don't know who did the video work on this title, but they deserve credit for an excellent job.  From start to finish, this is one of the best transfers I've seen of any film on Blu-ray, including major studio releases (and I have viewed over 400 Blu-rays!)  The image is extremely crisp and detailed, but with no visible enhancement or processing; it is very film-like.  I suspect the image quality surpasses what was seen even on opening night in movie theaters (considering the sorry state of movie exhibition back in 1980).

My only quibble with the video would be the day-for-night scenes where a scene is shot during the day, but then processed to be darker as if it were night, such as the opening sequence car-crash into the lagoon.  These scenes seemed to be a little too bright (thus almost appearing as if it were daytime).  Previous video releases may have been a little darker, but it's hard to compare a Blu-ray release to a memory of an old VHS.  There are also a few screens with a faint vertical scratch in the frame.  But other than that, I give this Blu-ray high marks for video quality.

The audio quality is fine.

The extras are good.  An audio commentary with Tim Conway and director Lang Elliott is informative about the writing and filming of the film, with a good amount of humor (as you would expect from Tim Conway!).  It's definitely worth a listen to.  There's also a photo gallery of behind-the-scenes shots.  And the trailer.  What more could you ask for (other than for the commentary to have been recorded at a time when Don Knotts could also have participated)?

Oh, and how did my kids like it?  Thumbs up!  They're ages 13, 11 and 6, and even the 13yo jumped at the sarcophagus scene, and laughed at more than a few of the jokes.  When it was over, the 6yo said "Oh, I wish there was another one!"  And the plot still doesn't really make any sense, but it's a fun journey anyhow.

Thank you to Tim Conway, Don Knotts and Lang Elliott for such a fun movie, and to Henstooth Video for such a great presentation on Blu-ray.