This is the original Howling movie.  Do not waste your timewith any of the sequels - THIS IS THE ONE TO GET.
This is simply oneof the best modern werewolf movies ever made.  A lot of people like American Werewolf in London, but The Howling far exceeds that one in terms of the film's entirety.  An American Werewolf in London seems "choppy", doesn't flow very well, and the acting is played down, relying mostly on werewolf transformation sequences and dark humor.
The Howling, on the other hand, really delivers in terms of completeness.  More ethereal and atmospheric than American Werewolf, The Howling is classic horror that makes a lot of connections from the beginning of the film and onward to the ending.  Even the cliches throughout the movie are necessary elements, which truly give it a firm place in the history of werewolf horror.
Long-haired Eddie, played by Robert Picardo of Star Trek Voyager, is a known serial killer who mutilates his victims.  Dee Wallace plays the news reporter who meets up with him in the beginning of the film in an adult store. She is monitored by her news crew for safety reasons, and their objective is to provide enough coverage to bring Eddie in to the police.... 
Along with a strong story, the sounds and effects work extremely well, and their integration into the film gives it a stronger sense of realism than American Werewolf in London. The transformation sequences (effects by Rob Bottin - The Thing [1980], Robocop [1989]), in particular, are highly effective with their slow, subtle changes that erupt into one of the most memorable werewolf creations in the genre.  The echoed, ethereal sounding "howling" effects even add to The Howling's overall mood, giving it a richness that is unsurpassed by American Werewolf.
With a good cast of actors, including Slim Pickens as the sheriff (Blazing Saddles, Dr. Strangelove), and good direction by Joe Dante, The Howling stands out as one of the gems of 1980's horror.
This film is also the best frame of reference for those of you who are familiar with the White Wolf role-playing game, Werewolf: The Apocolypse.