Not being an historian, I cannot criticize those reviews that argue about whoever Arthur really was. My feeling is, it just doesn't matter and as far as I am concerned let him remain a legend and if he's half Roman half something else does it really make any difference? This Arthur is a long way from Tennyson's Arthur in "Idylls of the King" which I adored as a teenager and still do. But a legend can assume any shape or form, and this rendition of Arthur as an early fighter for freedom of the individual man should be accepted along with all the other renditions.

Guinivere as an archer along side Arthur in the thick of battle, yelling war-cries like everybody else, friend or foe, in definitely out of the box and I loved her! There are touching moments-scenes that will grab at your heart, such as Bors' wife singing a ballad to their baby. One scene I would have made more of is the boy Arthur's pulling the sword Excalibur out of a stone. But by and large you as viewer will go with the flow and have no difficulty emerging yourself into the plot, you are there.

The photography is so extraordinary one should see this film on that basis alone. The film was shot in Ireland. In the winter the snowflakes come down rather lazily but soon the ground is covered. You watch those snowflakes settle in the horses' manes, in the hair of the men. The Saxons and Arthur's tiny band approach eachother over a river of ice which splinters under their weight and sends up great gushes of frigid water. The special effects here are simply superb as the men and horses struggle to keep from being sucked into the water. There are many other marvelously crafted scenes in the film, such as catapults that send torches of fire into the enemy lines.

Cerdic, the Saxon chieftan, played by Stellar Skarsgard, almost steals the show. The portrayal is close to being hammy but Stellar has a grand time looming large ahead of his army and given to expressive, emotional glances to his men as well as enemy Arthur. Of course, Guinivere in the thick of battle with no armor to protect her is a bit ridiculous, but it doesn't matter. "King Arthur" is intense, thrilling, heroic! I loved it!