I would like to preface this review by noting that I greatly enjoy watching anime.  There's something wonderfully unique about its combination of stylized animation, teen-to-adult thematic content, character-driven action, and unorthodox world-creation that I have found compelling for over a decade of my life.  I have already watched the bulk of mainstream animes, series like Dragon Ball Z and Bleach and Neon Genesis Evangelion, in addition to some less popular titles, and was looking for something else to sink my teeth into--possibly something more mature or more artfully constructed.  Weighing in at four-and-a-half stars on amazon, Last Exile seemed like an appealing choice: reviewers have praised it for its subtlety, its pacing, and its rich quasi-steam punk aesthetic.

In retrospect, I'm totally baffled by their reactions.  This show is sub-par at best.

One of my major issues with the series was its lack of quality animation or memorable action sequences.  To be sure, the art itself is actually quite good, but it's also incredibly sparse.  There are barely any movements on the part of drawn characters or objects, and the show includes only one single fight sequence that isn't almost 100% computer generated.  You might think it would be axiomatic that an anime should contain some robust animation, but Last Exile never delivers on this count.  The CG ship-based combat is alright, but hardly qualifies as impressive, and these sequences are seriously hindered by a lack of coherent battle mechanics.  What I mean by this is that, when writers create some kind of unusual military situation--in this case, air combat with vanships and larger flying warships--there needs to be a real logic to the way the fighting works, or there can be no meaningful dramatic tension.  The novels Mistborn and, to a lesser extent, Ender's Game, are outstanding examples of this principle: they both introduced novel combat situations that were otherworldly, but still had clearly defined limits and properties that drove the action forward.  The same cannot be said for Last Exile, in which sky vehicles whirr around unpredictably, executing new moves or forgetting about weapons or redefining rules as they go.

Of course, art and action are not totally essential elements--their mediocrity could be forgiven if the storyline of the series was clever or deep or immersive enough to compensate.  It is not.  Instead, the plot of Last Exile feels consistently disjointed and poorly-thought-out.  In an early episode, for example, several of the protagonists angrily denounce chivalry in a seemingly revolutionary moment; but then, for the remainder of the series, chivalry is rarely mentioned and never seems to have any serious impact on the narrative, or even on the culture of their world.  In another exemplary case, multiple female characters express romantic interest in the (early- to mid-pubescent?) main character, Claus, but their feelings are never resolved or even acknowledged later on.  And major questions, like "What exactly is the Grand Stream that the main characters want to navigate?" or "Where did 'The Guild' get its power from to begin with?" or "What caused the changing weather patterns that are threatening to destroy the planet?" remain permanently unanswered.  To me, though, the low point of the series' storyline was the final episode, when I realized that the incredibly-unresolved plot was about to wrap itself up--going straight from the middle of a climactic battle to a rushed and unsatisfying conclusion--in the span of about ten minutes.

Last Exile isn't totally devoid of narrative coherency or closure.  But it's close.

In the final analysis, I'm left wondering just why it is that so many people think so highly of this show.  Absent good animation or a solid plot, it's just not clear what I'm supposed to be enjoying about Last Exile.  The characters lack passion and complexity (although I did enjoy Lord Dio's antics), and the world itself doesn't feel especially fleshed-out (What do ordinary people do here, anyway?  What do they create or sell?  What are their values, their myths, their pleasures, their conflicts?).  If you're looking for a good anime, there's a long list of them that you need to experience before you even start thinking about this title: watch Death Note, watch Cowboy Beebop, watch Escaflowne or Outlaw Star or Fullmetal Alchemist.  There's simply no compelling reason to spend your time or your money on Last Exile when this genre is bursting with other, better options.