Bruce Lee wrote, directed and stars in this masterpiece.. The original title was Way of the Dragon, but after the tremendous success of Enter The Dragon (1973), the title was renamed "Return of the Dragon." Lee is a country boy going to Italy help a family friend whose Chinese restaurant is being bullied by local gangsters.
The movie is nothing short of brilliant and it has several themes to it, and yes I'll explain everyone of them.
Bruce Lee in all his films managed to maintain a family element in his films. He is either fighting alongside family members against crooked politicians or Chinese gangs. In short, he comes to his family's defense when they need him.
Also unlike most Hollywood directors who use people for a film and throw them away, Lee always wanted to include his friends in his films (Chuck Norris, Kareem Abdul Jabbar, Nora Miao and others).
The costar of this film, Nora Miao was in The Chinese Connection and Fists of Fury. She is a pretty decent actress in those films.
So Bruce comes in to help his family from these thugs threating their humble establishment and he beats the hell out of them. LOL
I remember the first time as a kid I saw Bruce Lee's movie in the U.S. not only were they good ,but soon after many Asian stars (Jet Li, Chow Yung Fat, Jackie Chan) saw there was a market for martial arts action and gave their best efforts to live up to the same high quality Bruce Lee had in his movies.
On top of that, the whole Martial Arts movement have inspired many people to take self defense karate courses and martial arts training. A kick can do much more damage than a fist sometimes.
Anyhow, soon the head crime boss (Robert Wall who is the godfather of Freddie Prince Jr.) enlist the help of a famous US martial artist named Colt (Chuck Norris) to eliminate Bruce.
The action scenes are incredible. To see Bruce go into his routine and execute his moves to perfection is inspiring.
Especially the fight with Chuck Norris, before fights him he goes into a mind boggling array of stretch exercises that were soon copied by bogus Bruce Lee imitators including Chuck Norris.
Without giving too much away, the film is jam-packed with flying fists, kicks and humor.
In one scene for example, an Italian thug tries to use Bruce Lee's nunchucks against him and ends up hurting himself!!!
The movie is a great buy for any action fan, and if you're a Bruce Lee fan, you should have this in you're collection.
More info about the movie:
On Amazon.com, the movie has gotten great feedback from it's viewers, including Leonard Maltin.
Chuck Norris was a student of Bruce Lee's martial arts school along with James Coburn, Kareem Abdul Jabbar and others.
Raymond Chow produced this film but it was Lee who wrote ,directed and starred in it.
Raymond Chow has executively produced other great martial arts films like "Police Story" by Jackie Chan and the Bruce Lee movies "Fists of Fury" , "Chinese Connection" and "Enter the Dragon."