For those of you who have never watched a WW II related film this is a depart from the blowing up and shooting. Sure there was a lot of that but this story is about many who supported their fellow soldiers in another way --aboard a cargo ship suppling much needed food  and movies to the carrier group, and other ships. The one thing you will find in common is the sacrifice, and the unselfishness of that era. They say is was a "kinder, gentler period of time", and you know after talking to lots of relatives --they do say it was. If you watch 40s era movies most all you will find a common bond of people of America. We were all together then.. I dont think we can go back but we can learn from our past....we must or we are doomed to forget it. These brave men here served Mister Roberts writes that the real the men served through "tedium to apathy and back again with an occasional trip to monotony"... that the real unseen enemy of the war is the boredom that becomes almost a religion.."  This is taken from memory so I might not have it just right. Share this one. Its a good'n.

I would also recommend The Mortal Storm [everyone should see this one]  Let your kids see these and get them hooked on good film, not bad, always negative "why we are bad, or we're bad b/c we did this, we're not a good America b/c  of blah, blah, blah.  These classic 40s and 50s  films - Mister Roberts are a good start. If you dont come out of watching this film saying to yourself --that was so sad, but so well done, and acted, then you missed it. Many of these films are so good -- catch Casablanca -- When the hungarian couple toasts to going to America they want only to learn English and be "American". Best Years of Our Lives -- after some of the guys get home from WWII --so well done, and so touches your heart.  I just dont see movies these days able to do that. Since You Went Away, an other one that is a must see. Please watch these with your kids and they will learn of just a small bit of greatness that we are --as Americans. If your kids are super overly driven, have them watch YOu Cant Take It With You.... a really great late 30s film. If you watch a few of them you will not even notice --after awhile that they are in B&W. The story, writing, acting and directing is so good that you rarely look at films  the  way you use to look at them. Please get your kids to watch these kind of films. It will make them see who really had it "tough"...