John Frankenheimer is at his strongest when combining human endeavour with automated weight, as "The Train" and "Grand Prix" showed.  In Ronin he tries more of the same, but with patchy results.  Nothing wrong with the casting, or the fundamentals of the plot.  A  collection of strong actors strike sparks off each other as they establish  interrelationships prior to a big heist.  Shades of "Reservior  Dogs" perhaps, but here although the director adheres strictly to a  real chronology we soon become aware that we are as much in the dark as the  protagonists, and that treachery and double-dealing can only be just around  the corner.  DeNiro seems to be reprising his role in "Heat" and  Reno is as reliable as ever as the film gets into gear.  The first set  piece, a bungled exchange of cash for a cache of arms on the rain-slicked  banks of the Seine, sets the tempo and begins to expose the strengths and  weaknesses of the characters.  We are then quickly brought to the main  heist itself, a protracted and violent sequence which includes bravura car  stunts  done without digital effects, front or back projection and with  very little undercranking.  Cinema at its gripping, visceral best.  But as  the plot begins to twist and develop, Ronin seems to lose its edge and  quality.  Some questionable performances from Jonathan Pryce and others,  very uneven pacing and a rash of storyline quirks combine to stall the  movie just when one expected more.  Perhaps as a traditional three-act  structure this would not have happened, but such devices are no longer  fashionable.  Here, the director has mismanaged foreshadowing, undermined  believability and failed to develop the character arcs sufficiently.  A  second car chase is superficially spectacular but overlong and cliched,  borrowing heavily from "To Live and Die in LA".  Worse is the  lamentable climax at an ice rink, of all places, and a lame coda for DeNiro  and Reno that really lets down the ending.  The DVD contains an alternative  ending which is slightly better.  Fans of the genre and the director will  admire Ronin, and it is a good film.  What a pity it did not aspire to be a  great one.