I too have seen the movie N many times and have even read the
book, and as a result, I too appreciate how much better the movie is than
the book, and here is why:
Here is Why the Movie 'Contact' improves on Sagan's original book IMHO:
1. it is not clear why there is no explanation in the SETI message of what the
  object of the trip is to be, i.e. why go?  In the  book the aliens evidently
  cant resist showing us the equivalent of  their hobby room, just like a nerdy
  earthling,  'hey come on over  and look at my widgets' (see pg 364 "that's
  what we mainly do - engineering")  But in the movie, there is zero technical
  presentation from the alien contact,  only a spiritual connection, so
  evidently the purely technical nature of  the original message was a trick or
  lure to fool a techie-obsessed culture into being directly shown by an
  'incredibly technologically advanced' civilisation that, 'hey, that's not
  where it's at, loving one another is where it's at'.
2. Removing the technical content from the actual contact experience  was a
  stroke of genius and greatly increased the power of the movie, and gave it a
  subtlety missing in Sagan's book.
3. Sagan's vision of the alien's interests are just extrapolations on his
  own.  He evidently would like to design galaxies.
  Also, the aliens are not motivated by a quest for knowledge, but out
  of boredom.  (pg 364: "no new galaxies .. just the same old crowd.
  Everything's getting run down. It'll be boring.")
  ("Against boredom, the gods themselves struggle in vain." - Nietzsche)
  In the movie, the aliens are evidently motivated out of love, there is
  no hint that they are bored.
  "See, in all our searching, the only thing we've found that makes the
  emptiness bearable, is each other."
  -Dad-prime
4. Sagan tries to make the case that a scientist's experience of the
  'numinous' in calculating pi to N-billion digits is on a par with the
  religious experience of the numinous.  He misses the point that one
  person's calculation makes another's irrelevant and redundant, whereas
  one person's religious experience of the numinous, does not make
  another's redundant.  This the message of Ellie after the return:
  'I wish everyone could have this experience'.  She is cast in the
  classic position of every earth mystic in history, rendered incapable
  of conveying the numinosity but yearning for everyone to participate.
  Yet both the book and movie fail in making the leap to the religious
  experience of the numinous as being valuable precisely because it is
  available to all and not dependent on a BIG EXPENSIVE MACHINE.
All this is not to denigrate Sagan's book which I enjoyed.  And I think he
might agree the movie improved on his original concept in ways he hadnt
thought of, and I am sure he would have delighted in the unforeseen
improvements, like a real scientist.
Rest In Bliss, Carl, we love ya :)
------------------------
"They said that's the way it's been done for billions of years."
-Ellie