I wanted to be a believer. I wanted to believe that obviously gorgeous Emma (Anne Hathaway) was an ugly duckling so insecure she'd be pitifully infatuated with smug, smirking playboy Dex. And that in spite of his Cad behavior, which is telegraphed, semaphored, and all but ridden in by Pony Express and flown by Goodyear Blimp throughout two-thirds of the movie, he is really a sweet guy underneath. And actually I could sort of believe it, because there can be a genuine good girl/bad boy dynamic in real life. These opposite types can be attracted to each other.

The problem is that it takes Emma and Dex so looo-ooo-ooong to overcome their individual weaknesses. Would somebody as bright as Emma really stay at her sombrero-wearing gig at a taco joint for years? Even after Emma finally gets a good haircut and a good job, she lives with pathetic wannabe-comedian boyfriend Ian seemingly FOREVER after she knows she'll never love him. Dex remains a womanizer and a selfish drunk into his thirties. The scene where he's chosen as "The Most Obnoxious Man On Television" is sort of winning, but how long do we want to follow the career of a man like this? The slackest scenes in the movie are the endless ones which show Dex as drunk, greasy and dishevelled.

Hathaway and Sturgess's acting skills save the movie. (By the way, Hathaway's English accent is perfectly O.K.) Inspite of ourselves, we get drawn into their individual metamorphoses--and yes, the chemistry between them is there. We can even believe that, at long last, Dex has grown into the man and father he was meant to be. And then there is the ending.

SPOILER ALERT.  The tragic ending seems, to me, completely gratuitous. The movie has (for the most part) a romantic-comedy structure, and it's more thoughtful than most. We've been led to care about these characters and to cheer when they finally achieve what they always should have had--a life together. A totally unheralded death which lays waste to everything they hoped for and finally reached comes as a meaninglessly cruel slap in the face. And yes, if this is the way the novel ended, it could and should have been rewritten.