The first segment of the movie about the real estate agent was about the only one to present statistics and a plausible conclusion, and as a result was the best part of the movie. Unfortunately the rest was unrelated segments that left many loose ends untied. I will not touch on all parts, but here are some of the more memorable moments.

The authors must have caught a ration of hate mail since the book was published about their now famous story of the girl named Temptress, as they dug up a PhD from Harvard to water down their original maxim about a poorly chosen name dooming a child to a life of squalor. The PhD (who is black) triumphantly declared that any unfortunate circumstances children with 'black' names experience in life were not the direct result of simply getting a bad name at birth, but because of social factors. Well, of course - the good professor misses the point, I think deliberately. The original premise was not that a 'black' name in and of itself would doom a child to ruin, but the authors suggested it was one of many factors. Nevertheless, the viewer should get the point - a bad name choice by flaky parents doesn't make life any easier for the child.

The movie next tackles their famous proclamation of abortion lowering the crime rate. First, the forced pregnancy policy of Romania was contrasted to the legalization of abortion in the US. However good the drama might be, it did not make the full connection as to how one situation was related to the other. The authors want us to assume that because of illegal abortion, Romania was overrun with unwanted kids and therefore had outrageous crime, culminating in the lynching of former dictator Cauchescu in 1989. Fact is, crime was probably low during the oppression because of ultra-control under the Soviet-style system, but they ignore this and provide no analysis. Aside from the implied assumption that Romania experienced utter chaos at that time, there was no actual comparison of statistics between the two countries in terms of crime rates as a result of the differing policies - I guess we just have to assume that crime skyrocketed while abortion was illegal in Romania. The takeaway for the cozy white viewers sipping Starbucks at home on their Ikea furniture is: thank God we have Roe v. Wade!

Moreover, the subtle use of what sounds like an older black man on Vodka and Ambien doing the voice over for the discussion of crime rates in America was about as close as the authors dared come to the racial aspects of what their theory suggested. They say legalized abortion got rid of 'unwanted kids, but they don't have the guts to say which ones. The uncomfortable truth is that sInce abortion was legalized in 1973, 13.5 million black babies have been aborted, and to date 70% of Planned Parenthood clinics are located in or around minority neighborhoods. The inescapable logic of their theory is that abortion lowered crime by aborting more minority (black) babies.

Fortunately, however, the truth is slightly different. Crime was not lowered by a wonderful application of eugenics in the tradition of Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger. Oddly enough, while abortion became legal and the abortion rate took off, the number of single mothers exploded, particularly among the black community, meaning more of the 'unwanted kids.' But in spite of wholesale abortion and the 13.5 million black babies sucked into the sink, there were still plenty of the 'unwanted kids' of all kinds running around. So ether the women who got their first unwanted kid aborted quickly got pregnant again and carried the second baby to term, or in many cases the unwed mother never got an abortion. Many women no matter how pro-choice they might be to be just can't pull the switch and get an abortion when the decision is in their face. Yes, abortion was totally legalized, but this didn't mean everyone participated. All it really did was ensure lax attitudes towards sex and carelessness with regard to birth control. But with all these unwanted kids from single moms, the crime rate still declined. How can this be?

The authors downplay the effect of improved and increased policing efforts, the re-invention of New York City by Rudy Giuliani and perhaps even ordinary demographic trends (post baby-boomer era) outside of abortion which led to the reduction in crime. On the whole, this segment was a mere re-hash of their original, liberal-white-people-friendly theory of how great abortion has been for society at large. Have an organic snack and celebrate!

There was an interesting discussion about the Sumo wrestler match-fixing that curiously began with one author declaring that Japanese culture was relatively corruption free (probably just an ordinary, condescending white person nod to all things Asian and mysterious), but by the end of the piece you'd think he was talking about Mexico. This segment, as with most others, did not truly fit the overall 'economics' theme of the work, but taken individually it wasn't bad entertainment.

The oddest part of the movie was the final one discussing paying little children to go to the bathroom, and then in high school, to get better grades. Economic, yes. Great idea? Not so sure. And wait - what about international comparisons for this segment? A second ago we were discussing Japan, and Romania before that. It would have been interesting to see how many other countries even lower themselves to think of bribing their children to doing what they're supposed to do anyway. I'd bet the answer is zero, as the whole notion stinks of modern American parenting. Throw in a DVD, give them a video game, feed 'em a bottle of pills and blame the rest on the school, right? Chinese and Indian kids get good grades without this nonsense - and besides, don't we give more money each year to the teachers unions anyway? For what result?

The participants in this segment sent another subtle but careful racial message as well. Although the high school profiled looked to be at least fifty-fifty black and white, the star pupil who does well is of course black, while - you guessed it - the utter idiot is white. Ironically enough, the white kid looks like he's doing everything he can to try to act "black" by clothes, demeanor and speech. Topping it off is a subtle barb to the military when the idiot white kid talks about enlisting since he's got nothing else to do upon graduation. Sad thing is even if he did, he'd probably score too low to have many choices of jobs. But not so for the up and coming bright black child, of course - he wins the contest and gets to ride in the big limousine. No word on his current status of if he was disowned by his peers for "acting white."

Overall, it was predictable, comfortable and easy to digest fodder for the educated 25-45 year old white folks who will be watching this DVD in blue state America over their favorite flat bread whole grain pizza.