Jumping the Broom examines the issues of class and race within the black cultural experience, which is rich and full of diversity.  It did so by humanizing the characters and delving into the heart issues within each person.  The characters were well cast in their respective roles:  the effervescent and bubbly bride, the over-attached and blunt groom's mother, the faithful son trying to create his own identity apart from his single mom's needs, the insecure, uneducated cousin who doesn't know how to handle the groom's success, the ultra successful friends re-examining what's important to them, the well-heeled, French speaking mother-in law trying to manage the clashing bunch in her home, and the confidence of good-hearted working class folks on the grounds of an intimidating Martha's Vineyard estate.  I felt it was as if TD Jakes drew from his pastoral experience and that these characters were types he saw in his ministry.  It showed how the various conflicts were handled, in some cases quite poorly, but how others spoke up and tried to restore health to relationships.  Another issue highlighted by the movie was dating and how abstinence could work in a modern setting.  It raised the issue of how culture affects each one of us, that we can choose which parts we want to maintain in our own families and how important flexibility and compromise are amidst those differences with others.  Above all, it demonstrated identity apart from culture and upbringing and learning to persevere within family systems to create healthier relationships.  It didn't end as some Disneyland form of happiness, but showed individuals within a group struggling with their own issues and learning to enjoy others despite them. The "happy ending" some derided as cliche was not, but rather it was a modern drama of dilemmas being worked out, despite the imperfections of us all.  Overall, I thought it was a post-racial movie in that the true source of conflict was money and class standing, even if the characters tried to pigeon hole their differences within their own racial stereotypes.  It transcended race while exploring its complexities.  Besides that, it was a well-written and funny movie in its genre and was filmed in the beautiful setting of Martha's Vineyard.