Sorry folks, but I am one of those weird people who go to see a movie for the only purpose of being entertained.  Drama, Tragety, Comedy...it makes no difference.  Did I enjoy the film.  The answes is YES!  Was I  entertained? YES!  Did I feel for the characters?  YES!
I never read  "Hawthorns book" and never care if I do. What "I" saw  was a man thrown into a complete questioning of everything he believed to  be true.  Until Hester, everything had made sence in his world.  Now this  "love" for a married woman was a direct contrast to all He  believed in.  To all he WAS.  And yet,  he loved and (believed in) her too.  The line " I am in hell" summed it all up.  He knew not how to  place one belief over another. So he walks a road, that he sees has no sane  end.  One reviewer on this page called him a ninny.  I was glad (for once)  to see a non-Rambo, sensitive performance...especailly by Oldman  (Air  FOrce One) who can do the macho thing quite well.  I particularly liked the  scene with the books and the ink...how REAL.  In his nervouseness of seeing  her,  he drops books gets ink on himself, and feels a bit stupid about it  all.  Is this a ninny?  I think it is  a real reaction, of a shy minister,  not knowing what to feel or do.
Demi Moore??? at times she was good but  at times both character and accent slipped.  I think she could have skipped  the accent. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio come to mind for me in this  role.
Again...non movie snob I am...I measure a film if it touches me.  This one did, particularly Oldmans character.  
And the heck with  Hawthorne...to have these people die for the "crime" of love  would have been very real for this time peroid, but frankly would have  "wrecked my day".  Remember I seek only entertainment for my few  bucks....I get "reality" for free every day.  
Lets see someone  make a movie on the flat tire I had on the freeway last week ...or the  wonderful conversation with the TOW guy :) Very real, very boring! 
In  great writing, tragety seem a mainstay. but in OUR real world we see so  much injustice, so much pain.  What is "wrong" with a happy  ending?
As for the reviewer who said he thought it was funny.....great,  you can view it as a comedy.  Once you may your two bits...its your  choice:)