The remake of Michael Mann's "Manhunter" and the second adaptation of Thomas Harris' novel of the same name is no dissapointment. THe film boasts more than exceptional acting, highly inquisitive writing and solid directing throughout. Let's break this down so you can truly see what I mean.

The Acting: Edward Norton (Fight Club, American History X) stars as F.B.I. Special Agent Will Graham, and plays him perfectly. You would'nt want anyone else in the role as Norton fills it respectably as usual. The great Anthony Hopkins (Bram Stoker's Dracula) returns for the third time to the role which won him the Academy Award for Best Actor back in 1991 for Jonathan Demme's The Silence of the Lambs. He's perfect, as expected. The highlight of the show, however, is British actor Ralph Fiennes (Schindler's List) as psychotic, deranged killer Francis "The Tooth Fairy" Dolarhyde. Fiennes truly captures the psyche of a strange, not-all-there, psychotic yet compassionate freak perfectly. Other fine performances include Harvey Keitel (Bad Lieutenant, Pulp Fiction) as head investigator Jack Crawford and Emily Watson (Equilibrium) as Reba McClane, Dolarhyde's blind girlfriend.

The Writing: Ted Tally's screenplay fits adequately when it comes to flow and thrils, as there are plenty of thrills. Tally won the Acadmey Award for Best Screenplay when he wrote The Silence of the Lambs and you can see why with another fine sampling of his work in Red Dragon.

The Direction: Brett Ratner (Rush Hour series, X-Men: The Last Stand) takes an interesting step in his career with Red Dragon and impresses. Watching the features on the DVD let it be known that Ratner is an enthusiastic and lively man that did this picture good.

The Features on the DVD where great for such a cheap price. They include an interview with a real-life criminal profiler just like Will Graham in the movie, an interview with none other than Anthony Hopkins on his defining role as Dr. Lecter, and a nice sort of "making-of" featurette that helps you learn a little about the cast and the writer and director.

Overall-
The Film - ***/****
The DVD - **.5/****