I can't remember the last time I saw an Indian film of such beauty and stillness. Stillness - that's the word which kept coming to my mind from time to time, as the languid, long shots slowly wove together the delicate storyline. I felt silenced and humbled, and Water overwhelmed me completely, but in a beautiful way that I shall not forget for a while.

Water tells the story of the pain and suffering that Hindu widows have had to suffer for time memorial due to oftentimes unfair diktats of their religious scriptures. The movie is set in the days of the British Raj, when the mindsets of the masses were still more or less firmly rooted in the past, and widows really had only one of three choices according to the Hindu religion: to burn themselves alive on their husband's pyre ("Sati"); to give up all material possessions and live completely frugally within a sisterhood of widows, or; in special circumstances, to marry the younger brother of the husband. This movie's plot revolves around three women in an "ashram" for widows on the banks of the holy river Ganga: one a young girl in her single-digit years who is widowed and sent to the ashram (played by Sarala), another a beautiful widow who is forced into providing the livelihood for the ashram by providing carnal pleasures to the local rich (Lisa Ray), and the third a woman who though not the head of the ashram, is in many ways the sense and strength of the ashram (Seema Biswas). The lives of these three women have become more or less settled in a groove, till a disruptive force appears in their midst in the form of a newly-turned Gandhian who wants to marry Lisa.

To avoid any spoilers, I won't say much more directly about the plot. Instead let me just focus on other aspects of the film, and the feelings it evoked in me. The film has been well thought through in terms of the soundness of its story and the unrelenting hammering of its key message - the ludicrous blinding of faith and its infinite capacity for harm. The plot is highly predictable, but simple and effective, and the predictability does not detract from the film overall. Giles Nuttgens does a first rate job with the camera, creating beautiful and haunting images reminiscent in quality of Christopher Doyle's work in "In the Mood for Love". The music is effective, though Rahman could have done better.

The acting deserves a separate paragraph altogether, so here goes: let me start by saying that even though I understand Deepa Mehta's desire to bridge "art" cinema with mainstream cinema, I still can't fathom how she manages to cast so terribly from the mainstream sometimes. Lisa Ray and John Abraham? OH GOD, GIVE US A BREAK! I love Lisa Ray's beauty, but can she act? And John? The result is that the acting in this movie is of two types: the outstanding, and the trash. The trash would be obvious by now, so let's talk about the other category. Sarala, in the role of Chuhiya, is a find. It never ceases to amaze me how children can be made to act at this level, but I guess some of them are just naturally gifted. The woman who steals the show however, is Seema Biswas, who delivers the performance of her life. She's done great work before, but nothing is even remotely comparable. I rate her performance in this film among the best I have ever seen on cinema - up there with Emily Watson's performance in "Breaking the Waves" and Gena Rowlands in "A Woman Under the Influence".

Finally, Deepa does a brilliant job of bringing it all together, and while she was already a good director, I think she has truly arrived as a top-notch director on the global scene with this film.

Do watch the film - you won't regret it.