Lesbians and queer women everywhere can, and should, rejoice at the re-release of Desert Hearts (1985) in a 2-disc vintage collection set. A cult classic, Desert Hearts is one of the first full-length feature films premised on a lesbian love story. Vivian Bell (Helen Shaver), an established English professor, travels to Reno for a quick divorce from her husband where she meets Cay Rivvers (Patricia Charbonneau), a casino change-girl with a flair for white satin cowboy ensembles. Their attraction to each other is more than just platonic, and it is this growing sexual tension between the austere and staid English professor and the carefree and passionate casino worker that drives the film.

The focus on the sexual tension between Vivian and Cay is the film's most significant difference from its source, Jane Rule's novel The Desert of the Heart (1964). The centerpiece of the novel is not Vivian's relationship with Cay, but her consciousness as she grapples with her life in its transitional state. Formally, this struggle is represented by the use of free indirect discourse and internal monologue, both of which function to reveal Vivian's confusion and fear about the new direction of life and of her feelings for Cay. The director of Desert Hearts forgoes direct representation of Vivian's internal struggle and, instead, lets the camera do the talking: the film is filled with silences, which are intended to be profound and palpable, but which are inherently unreadable.

It is this unreadability--this uncertainty--that makes the love scene terribly unnerving. The scene begins with Cay forcing her way into Vivian's hotel room in order to discuss their relationship. When Vivian returns from making herself a drink she finds Cay naked in bed, the white sheets drawn to her navel, her breasts exposed. Vivian asks Cay repeatedly to "put on [her] clothes and leave," but Cay ignores her request and, instead, predicates her actions on her interpretation of Vivian's thoughts. She believes she knows exactly what Vivian wants, even if Vivian claims to want the opposite.

In her commentary, director Donna Deitch claims that she wanted to create the "requisite amount of emotional connection" necessary for the climatic love scene. But this connection is artificial; Vivian here reacts more like Patty Hearst than a consenting adult. In the end, the two spend hours in bed together, and the message is "No means Yes--with a little coaxing." This is where the film's deviation from the novel's primary theme of self-discovery to one of seduction is of consequence because seduction itself is a fraught category. Seduction is not a "bad" thing--like Cay, we all have, or have wanted to, seduce an English professor or two. But it is the exhilaration of seduction that also renders it dangerous: assumed emotions, forced thoughts and crossed boundaries. This film is brilliantly groundbreaking in various ways, but one has to wonder if it also has paved the way for current cinematic representations of the "monstrous" lesbian.