Now, those who just looked at the title and guessed what the plot was, you could have been correct. It's about Alex the Lion (Ben Stiller), the popular loveable lion, according to "the people", Marty (Chris Rock) the optimistic "white with black stripes or black with white stripes" Zebra, Gloria (Jada-Pinkett-Smith) the "mama's only" hippo who attempts to keep control to the gang, and finally Melman (David Schwimmer) the sick, diseased blown spotted giraffe. So, what happens is because of an attempted escape to the wild by Marty, they all get sent the the wild in Kenya, Africa. But, the crates of the quartet falls off the ship and they arrive at an island that turns out to be Madagascar. Eventually, they get stuck in with the dancing lemurs with King Jullian (Sacha Baran Cohen) and his toady who's voice is done by Cedric the Entertainer. So, apart from beating up the fossa, which are cats that always "tear [the lemuers] limbs apart and crashes all their parties." So, pretty much it

Positives: Well, well well, a comedy from Dreamworks that is a much better progress than anyother DM movie I've seen. Now, apart from that, there is plenty of friendship notices.

Negative: 5% of the movie is crude humor, which is a little shame. Also King Jullian's first apperance is kind of suggestive for parents who want to avoid media like that.

Comical note: Lots of comedy around the movie itself. Even the characters themselves are New Yorkers, despite the fact they are animals. Lots of hints at movies and even an island of slapstick humor which, at the right time, turns funny.

Conclusion: Madagascar is a much better production than the Shrek series or Shark Tale for that matter. Even though Dreamworks are known for some bad animated movies, they worked very hard on this movie, maybe after some hard experiences on Shrek 2. When I first heard of the title, I was very worried it would be a Shrek 2 clone, but luckily it was not a lame production of Shrek. I think that this movie is mostly good for 8+ 'cause of the "kiddie" language, some crude humor, and some suggestive themes. It's funny apart from that.