"TWO FOR THE ROAD" is a very good movie about what happens when the fairy tale ends and the couple "lives happily ever after." The film consists of four vignettes, in- and out-of- sequence, about a  stylish, economically-upwardly-mobile British couple on four different road  trips on the same road through France at different stages of their  relationship. The first, in their real time, is a trip as youths when they  meet and fall in love. The second is as struggling newlyweds. The third is  after both have had affairs. In the fourth, they have achieved financial  success, but the decay in their marriage has led to a downward spiral of  emotions. Instead of appearing in chronological sequence, the four  vignettes are edited/spliced together, jumping from trip to trip, for  contrast and to show coordinated alignment of thoughts, actions and  revelations. There's beautiful rural French scenery, a lovely Henry Mancini  score, brilliant dialogue, and some of the greatest 60's mod fashions ever  seen on film. In one particularly pivotal scene, Audrey Hepburn storms off  from the car wearing a black shiny-vinyl mod pantsuit. Walking alongside a  lake, she delivers the most clarifying line in the film, "you don't  give me 'everything I want'; you give me everything YOU WANT TO GIVE  ME! " This line speaks volumes for all couples everywhere who have  been tortured by the miscommunications, mistreatments, and misperceptions  involved with trying to love another. Odd that a line that hits the nail on  the head, so poignantly and seriously, comes from Audrey's character when  looking like Joanne Worley on an episode of "Laugh-In" a few  years later. Another laughable sequence is the one with the couple's  friends' spoiled daughter. Apparently, the parents do not want to warp the  child's psyche, so they allow her to run amok, claiming Audrey should  "woo" her. Later, when the child throws the car keys away, won't  divulge their location, and hours are spent searching a field for them,  Audrey's character, Joanna, loses her patience and gets in the girl's face,  privately screaming, "tell your mother where the keys are, RIGHT  NOW! " Immediately, the child gives them back. When the mother asks  Joanna how she got the results, Audrey replies, "I wooed her!"  and walks away. Thank goodness the UNICEF people never got a look at that  scene (smile). The best part of this movie is its' honest and objective  look at love and life. It's not the glossed-over fantasy in which we prefer  to see our screen idols, but, that's what makes the few cleverly objective,  yet fun, movies, like this one, shine through.