Having seen this show several times both in London and on tour in the US, it was a huge treat to be able to experience this 25th Anniversary Performance from the O2 Arena. I was fortunate enough to see it in  a US theatre the one night it played a few weeks after this was recorded. This show sold out the gigantic O2 so quickly they added a second show, which also sold out. It  was beamed live to theatres around the UK. And it just won "Theatre Event of the Year" in the Whatsonstage Theatregoers Choice Awards. I am delighted that they decided to make it available for Region 1. As wonderful as the 10th Anniversary show was, this is better in some ways. The lighting, the sets and projections, the lush orchestrations and the vast audience that just electrified the air add to the whole experience.
This was an incredible group of performers that still gives me chills when I recall it. Alfie Boe as Jean Valjean, is trained as as operatic tenor. He was spectacular in every way. He shows a very supple vocal range. He can hit & hold the high soft notes & belt out the big showstoppers with equal dexterity. I really do like Lea Solonga but felt she was just a little weak as Fantine. (She was killer as Eponine on the 10th.) Norm Lewis was a wonderfully wicked yet human Javert. His baritone strong & menacing & yet soft & soulful as he wrestles his conscience and loses. Katie Hall was a convincing as Cosette. Nick Jonas, in a bit of "stunt casting" that went badly awry, was Marius. It was glaringly apparent when matched with multi-award winning West End & Broadway veterans. Though he did get better. (This actually played two nights in the UK October 2-3. This is a compilation.) Canadian, Ramin Karimloo as Enjoras, the student leader, was impeccable. He has previously played this role & that of Marius. He's starred as the Phantom in London & is now playing the role in the sequel, Love Never Dies. (He has already twice been voted "Best Actor in a Musical"  & is nominated for an Olivier this year for the same role.) Matt Lucas and Jenny Galloway obviously enjoyed their time as the Thernadiers, which made them great fun to watch. The encores must be mentioned again. They were incomparable to anything I've every seen.  If you love Les Mis, you will love this show. Don't try to compare it with the 10th. With its rich new orchestrations, new sets, some changes in the lyrics and slight yet clarifying changes in the show, it stands alone.