This is the start of a new era for the Doctor and his friends.  Matt Smith takes over as the Doctor, and gathers a few new companions to come with him on his journey through time and space.  Also, Stephen Moffat takes over as the head writer and executive producer of the show.  Does the new series compare to the Russell T. Davies and David Tennant era?  Yes it does.  The story of the Doctor and Amy Pond is a science-fiction fairy tale, spanning ages and entire worlds.  The whole series just feels fresher and more exciting now.  Here are a few reasons to watch:

New Companions -- Amy Pond is a great addition to the show.  "The Girl Who Waited" seems to have the same tough spirit that Donna Noble had.  She's treats the Doctor like an equal, while at the same time loving him in her own way and realizing that he is something beyond her understanding.  I think she's cool.  Then we get Rory, Amy's fiance, a lovable goof and all around good guy.  He is my personal favorite of the Doctor's new companions.  He's just so out of place on their adventures.  Finally, the mysterious River Song returns to the series.  We learn a little more about her (emphasis on "little") this time around.  I enjoy watching her strange, out-of-time relationship with the Doctor play out.  There seems to be something foreboding on the horizon...

Old Enemies -- The Daleks return in full force.  Plus we get the return of the Weeping Angels, the terrific villains of the old episode "Blink."

New Times and Places -- We get to see the Doctor and Amy travel to a space-faring colony of humans, whose lives depend on a terrible secret.  An old enemy appears during World War II in an unlikely place.  The Weeping Angels stalk our heroes through a synthetic forest on board a crashed spacecraft.  Deep within the Hollow Earth, an ancient threat is waking from a long slumber.  Plus, vampires in Venice, an excursion into our heroes' dreams, and an encounter with Vincent van Gogh.

A New Doctor -- Matt Smith is wonderful as a brighter, zanier Doctor.  Smith follows on the heels of David Tennant's very popular portrayal of the Doctor.  And, in my opinion, rises to the occasion.  He's quirkier and crazier than Tennant's Doctor, but still holds enough of the character that we feel it's the same traveler of time and space that we know and love.  I love Smith's Doctor, and hope he stays around for a few seasons.

A New Adventure -- Previous seasons have had something subtle, like a phrase, dropped into various episodes that hinted at a main storyline for each season.  (Ex: "Bad Wolf," "Mister Saxon," planets going missing...)  The new series does something a little more overt, but it doesn't get in the way of the self-contained episodes throughout the season.  There is a crack in the universe, slowly spreading, following the Doctor and Amy Pond through time and space.  What has damaged the whole universe, and what is the connection to Amy Pond?  It is a good story, intended as a kind of fairy tale.  And the way it all comes together in the finale is epic.

If you haven't watched Doctor Who, then this is a great time to get on board the series.  And if you are a fan, this is a great collection of science fiction storytelling, a brand new chapter in the saga of the Doctor and his friends.