The Wedding Singer is a movie that you will either love or hate. You will know which of these two categories you fall into within 5 seconds of the movie starting. If you start bopping along to the title music, you will love this movie. If you hate the title music, you will hate this movie. By the way, the opening song is You Spin Me Round. Me, I love this movie. It's one of my all-time favourites.

The story at one level is a basic romantic comedy; boy meets girl, they fall in love, and despite seemingly insurmountable odds, they get together by the end, which is how you want it to be. It rises above the genre, however, both by being very funny, and by being set in 1985, which allows you to laugh at the fashions and the social mores of a period not all that long past.

The movie opens with the aforementioned song, being sung at a wedding by Robbie Hart (Adam Sandler). Robbie Hart is a Wedding Singer, and a very good one at that, as he quickly demonstrates by salvaging the best man's speech from this wedding. We also learn that Robbie is a very kind, generous and caring kind of guy. We also get to meet Julia (Drew Barrymore), a waitress who has just started work at this particular reception hall. Julia is a wonderful, sweet human being. Robbie and Julia develop an instant rapport, and we learn that Robbie himself is getting married next week and Julia is involved in a long term relationship at the moment which doesn't appear to be progressing towards the altar.
Robbie's wedding day arrives, but unfortunately, he is left standing at the altar by Linda (Angela Featherstone) whereupon he falls into a deep depression. Robbie's best friend, Sammy (Allen Covert) convinces Robbie to return to work, and an absolutely hysterical sequence follows revolving around the songs Holiday and Love Stinks.

Robbie gets to meet Glen, Julia's fianc&eacute; (by now he has proposed). Glen (Matthew Glare) is a big-time Don Johnston wannabe. Julia convinces Robbie to help her with her wedding plans. They have a lot of fun together, including another hysterical scene involving Jimmie Moore and his band (Michael Jay in a cameo role). As a result of this, Julia's cousin, Holly (Christine Taylor) takes an interest in Robbie. This leads to a double date with Robbie, Glen, Julia and Holly, where Robbie learns that Glen is a big-time fink, and has no intention of changing even after he marries Julia.

Robbie and Julia's romance now takes a seriously rocky course, with seemingly endless obstructions to their getting together. However, with a little help from Billy Idol and the entire First Class section of a flight to Las Vegas, Robbie and Julia finally get together. And that's how we really want it to be.