....is what I would describe Escanaba in Da Moonlight. Being that I am only a few hundred miles or so from the 'Fudgesucker' borderline that is the Mackinaw Bridge and a hunter myself, I can relate to some of the mischief and mayhem exhibited in this Jeff Daniels play-turned-movie. Now when I say some, don't take it either way of it's not true or it is true, but as a sign that the movie was, indeed, adapted from a play and it shows itself too much as that towards the end. However, don't let that deter you from witnessing some funny stuff that's so out there you wonder why we hunters make animal lovers a bit nervous. 
Jeff Daniels, a native Michigander, did well in bringing to life and in detail elements needed to make it authentic; sometimes too much so to the point of unreal. Much of what happens in the Deer Camp, the central scene that lasts throughout much of the movie, is like any cabin in the woods, only needing a car battery to keep the power up. To top it off they even had a Two-Holer outhouse; two toliets! Any hunter will tell you that's essentially in group hunts.
I found the history that is relayed in the story about the successful kills and the humorous circumstances behind them to give added depth and sometimes emotion. Yes, it's true: sometimes a man in the Upper is defined by his Big Buck. The part about the U.F.O.'s is hillarious but gets old fast, and towards the end you do feel as if you sat through a play and not a movie, which sometimes plays drag too long. There's some moments in the end, which I won't reveal, that will leave you down a bit, perhaps too down when the end is finally reached.
Again, though, I did find this movie very funny and warm even if it isn't entirely accurate. Let's just say Jeff Daniels got it 80 percent right; high enough to draw the hunters out of the woods to go buy a DVD and enjoy the movie.
As for the DVD itself: not much to it, but that's the DVD's selling point: the movie, not the extras or lack thereof. I think some movie studios are too insecure about the movies they make and pack it with stuff; rightfully so. This hasn't got flash, but it does have substance.