First off, this rating should really be 4.5 out of 5, but the half star isn't really an option.  Anyway, Season 13 is a long awaited release, as we got Season 20 for the 20th anniversary.  Al Jean took over as show-runner, who is still in that position today, although he is no longer doing this (at this point) with Mike Reiss.  Lots of people say this season (maybe not 13 specifically...say the 12-15 area) is where the quality of the show started to decline.  I am diehard Simpsons fan.  I have seen every episode, many times.  I own every season, and the movie, that is available.  Now, Season 13 is certainly a time of change, but while the show is changing, I don't think that the quality has changed necessarily.  We see more episodes that have two (or sometimes even a third) plot or story.  An "A" and a "B" story, if you will.  One thing you do see happen often in these latter seasons is that the "B" story that is supposed to be the subplot, is more exciting or interesting the main plot.  The Simpsons still today, and in Season 13 do things very well.  They can still entertain better than anything on television.  They are still able to touch your heart in more ways than one.

Below is a list of the episodes with brief tidbits :)

Treehouse of Horror XII--There's a Gypsy story here, a "smart house" with Pierce Brosnan, and a Harry Potter spoof this year.

The Parent Rap--A solid episode with Homer and Bart being tethered together until Marge frees them.  The judge then decides Bart only acts out because of Marge and Homer being poor parents.

Homer the Moe--This is one of the gems of this season in my opinion.  Moe returns to bartender school after losing the passion for his work.  He completely renovates his bar leaving Homer and the rest of the regulars feeling out of place, prompting Homer to open a bar in his garage...guests R.E.M.

A Hunka Hunka Burns in Love--This episode is both funny, and fairly emotional.  I always really tend to enjoy episodes that feature heavily on Mr. Burns.  Homer gets a job writing fortune cookie fortunes, one which leads Mr. Burns to love, unfortunately to Snake's (ex)girlfriend.

The Blunder Years--This episode has a few good laughs, but is mediocre overall.  Homer sees a hypnocist and relives a tragedy from his childhood, that for some reason ties into Smithers and Mr. Burns...

She of Little Faith--Bart and Homer destroy the Church with a rocket which prompts Mr. Burns to buy and sponor the rebuilding.  Lisa becomes fed up with this and begins exploring other religions, eventually deciding to be Buddhist.

Brawl in the Family--This is not only the worst episode of the season, but one of the worst of the whole show.  Homer and Ned's Vegas Wives return, and the family gets arrested while having a fight break out while playing a board game...

Sweets and Sour Marge--Here's another magnificent episode.  Homer and the town are trying to get themselves into the Guiness Book of World Records, which they do, but for being the worlds fattest town.  Marge, doing her humane duty, bans sugar in Springfield, causing Homer to start boot-legging the goods into town.

Jaws Wired Shut--Homer accidentally runs into a statue of Drederick Tatum and break his jaw.  Dr. Hibbert puts head and mouth gear on him that completely leaves him unable to talk, or eat essentially.  He becomes a great loving, listening, and compassionate father.  However, Marge is bored when Homer heals and doesn't revert to his old self.

Half-Decent Propsal--Another mediocre episode this season, Artie Ziff, for one weekend, gets Marge to stay with him, for $1 million (if I recall correctly) to pay for home repairs.  Artie recreates the senior prom and forces himself on Marge, and Homer thinks she doesn't want him anymore.

The Bart Wants What It Wants--Bart ends up in a relationship with Rainer Wolfcastle's daughter, Gretta.  He blows her off for a date and they break up, leading her to a sympathy relationship with Milhouse, leading the Simspons to Canada.  Principal Skinner works on coffeehouse/bar stand-up comedy, a la Seinfeld.

The Latest Gun in the West--Bart and Lisa befriend an old TV actor, who was a cowboy.  They arrange for him to have a comeback special on Krusty's show, but turns out Buck is an alcoholic, who ends up shooting Krusty on live TV.

The Old Man and the Key--Grandpa uses Homer's car to woo women but they are only using him for his ability to drive, as he is warned by Homer and Marge.

Tales From the Public Domain--Shows like this I usually don't enjoy, Homer finds a years overdue library book, and reads Simpson style parodies of the Odyssey, Joan of Arc, and Hamlet.

Blame it on Lisa--The pun in the title might be the most humourous part of this episode.  I may be wrong, but didn't Rio de Janerio sue the Simpsons and/or Fox for how the place was portrayed?  Anyway, the family visits this place as Lisa looks for an orphan.

Weekend at Burnsie's--Homer after picking a fight with a murder of crows has his eyes pecked, and Dr. Hibbert prescribes him medical marijuana.  This leads Homer to become Burns' Vice President from always laughing at his jokes while high.  Meanwhile, the town votes on whether or not to ban medical marijuana.

Gump Roast--Another clip show, which is just a roast of Homer.  Kang and Kodos make an appearance, and Maggie saves the day.  The end actually is rather touching.

I am Furious Yellow--After seeing an assembly, Bart creates a comic that stars Homer, which becomes an ultra-popular internet cartoon.  Guest Stan Lee as himself, who harasses the Comic Book Guy.

The Sweetest Apu--A reasonably sentimental episode (eventually) as Homer and Marge discover Apu having an affair with the Squishee lady, until Manjula finds out by watching the Kwik-E-Mart security tapes.

Little Girl in the Big Ten--Lisa befriends some college students, and begins leading a double life while still going to Springfield Elementary, and attending Springfield Community College.  Meanwhile, Bart gets bitten by a chinese mosquito and must live for a week in a bubble.

The Frying Game--Homer buys Marge a coi pond, which neither of them knows, contains a rare "Screamapillar" which Homer kills, or so he thinks, and obviously is unable to care for.  Homer and Marge get sentenced to care for an elderly woman, who is murdered, with them as the prime suspects.

Papa's Got a Brand New Badge--Season finales are usually hit or miss, here we have a bullseye.  During a blackout, Homer, Lenny, and Carl become Spring-Shield, a police force, that Mayor Quimby lets replace the police.  All is well, and Homer is even good at this, until Fat Tony steps into play.

In short, I'll be buying this set, along with every other season, as I figure all true fans will.  Take my review for what you will.