My favorite Coen Brother film might be Raising Arizona. It is the story of a convenient-store robber named Hi (Nicolas Cage) who falls in love with a police-booking officer named Ed (Holly Hunter). And for love, Hi goes straight until about page ten when Hi and Ed decide that they need a child to complete the "family unit." Unfortunately, Ed is "barren" and Hi is an ex-con, so they are unlikely either to conceive or to adopt. But Nathan and Florence Arizona--owners of the Arizona Unpainted Furniture dynasty--have just had quintuplets, and according to the headlines, it's "more than they can handle." Ed persuades Hi that they should take one, and so they do, stumbling into a story spiral that will never quite let up. They take Nathan Jr. back to their "suburban starter home"--a trailer in a largely empty expanse of desert--where they are visited in turns by Hi's boss, Glen, who brings his wife and frightening tribe of children, by escaped convicts Evelle and Gail Snopes and by a bounty-hunter on a motor cycle. Each proves a threat to the integrity of the newly, if illegally, formed family unit--if only by critiquing their parenting skills. Glen feels Hi needs to lighten up and swap wives. Glen's wife feels a shrieking panic when she learns that Nathan Jr. has yet to have his "Dip-tet." Evelle and Gail think breast-feeding is an absolute must without which the child will end up in prison just as they did. And the bounty-hunter wants the child in order to claim the $25,000 reward though he kindly intends to rough up the kid-nappers for free. In the end, they all recognize Nathan Jr. and want the reward of his love or the reward for his return. And when he is, then, kid-napped from the kidnappers, it results in a chase that ends in kindness, charity and an explosion--after which the movies' epilogue gently lowers our expectations down onto the sad, sweet melancholy of Hi's last dream.

When you look at the filmography of the Coen Brothers, you may wonder at their variety, at their breadth. They seem to be able to work in any number of genres. But, in truth, they have only ever worked in but one: a zany film noir. And while those who love them, like myself, can provide you with a rather long list of objects, character types and thematic elements that regularly occur in their films--hats, vomiting, kidnapping, howling fat men, dreams--I am rather more interested in their portrayal of a world inhabited by psycho-social fundamentalists, who take everyone at his or her word--literally--and who are incapable of suspicion, of divining ill-intent. They are, more often than not, people who dream of having what is really no more than the ordinary fare of ordinary people; people who dream of living in what other people seek to escape. Hi and Ed are a warm trailer trash version of the farm couple in Grant Wood's American Gothic. And Hi is probably the better example. Is he an innocent or a well-meaning, conscious-less idiot? Terminally straight-faced, he describes his life and story in long, calm periods with Dickensian qualification whether he is being fired at by a convenient store clerk with a gun many times bigger than his own; is being chased by police who fire non-stop and indiscriminately down residential streets, into occupied homes and through busy super-markets; or is being beaten senseless by the warthog from hell--none of which, incidentally, is as frightening as Glen's pre-schoolers. When you add the rush and erratic veer of the shaky cam shots and the distance-distorting wide-angle lenses, the result is an overwhelming visual for a life swiftly picking up speed in its downward spiral. But Hi is forever deadpan and earnest with only his hair to signal a kind of frenzied surprise at the unexpected mysteries of just getting through another day.