Melanie Griffith in perhaps her most endearing role ever, plays Tess, a NYC secretary with lot's of brains under her big hair of the 80s.

Tess has a fiance played by Alec Baldwin.  When she comes home from work to find him in bed with a friend, she wipes the tears away, and sets out to make her mark in the business world.

Tess obtains an assistant job working for hotshot business woman Katherine played to the hilt by Sigourney Weaver.  This turns out to be just as demeaning as working for lascivious male  bosses, but in a whole new way.  Tess plays the game, placating Katherine, but attempting to bring ideas to the fray in hopes of impressing her boss, and landing a promotion.  Instead, Katherine attempts to steal Tess's ideas.

Realizing she's being played, Tess gets even when Katherine leaves town.  She gets a  businesswoman makeover from best friend Joan Cusack, new hair, and Katherine's dress.  She has access to Katherines fancy apartment, and uses her equipment to impress Jack Traynor (Harrison Ford)a business executive.

The flirtatious interplay between Tess and Jack is a delight to watch unfold.  Jack falls for the savvy businesswoman with a "Head for business, and a bod for sin."  Problems arise when Katherine returns, since SHE has been cultivating Jack as husband material, unbekownst to Tess.

The games, one upmanship, and competiton between Tess and Katherine mount higher, with Katherine doing her very best to leave Tess drowning in the secretary pool.  Tess must pull out all the stops to outwit her boss, convince the company bigwigs that SHE has the winning ideas, and, most of all, win Jack away from Katherine.

Mike Nichols, famous for his direction of 1967s classic  "The Graduate", turns out a highly entertaining, delightful film.  The three leads are wonderful, and the supporting cast lends the finishing touch.  Who doesn't love a true "feel good" comedy that you watch with a smile on your face?  "Working Girl" is, and does that.  It's one of those modern day movies that has an old fashioned charm.  It is at once adventurous, romantic and humorous in a wholesome way not seen too often anymore.  It's a true "Cinderella" story brought up to date in a bustling Manhattan.

There is one irony herein.  The closing of the movie, and the titles role while fixed on a shot of the World Trade Centers in all their glory.
Originally,  I assume we were supposed to look upon them as symbols of victory for the winning characters in the film.  Unfortunately, now that the horror of 9/11 has taken away these icons of success and prosperity, the mood of happiness is dampened at the close in the knowledge that they're gone.  However, I wouldn't have it any other way.  "Working Girl", besides being a terrific film, also gives us a nice closing tribute to the WTCs, long may they live in our memories.