B Movies are meant to be "guilty pleasure" movies ... watched to satisfy those urges, instincts and desires that we're not always ready to admit to openly in public.  Featuring various combinations of babe lust, wonton carnage, savage (or not so savage) brutality, far out locations, techno-junky-ism, monsters, weapon fetishes, space ships, mutants, armored vehicles and more babe lust, they come in Horror, Monster, Sci-Fi, Girly and many other sub-varieties.  My reviews of such movies take this intentional "guilty pleasure" aspect into account and are written for people who enjoy either watching or making fun of this sort of entertainment at least some of the time.  SOME B movies are so well made they really aren't B movies at all, and when I feel I've found one, I'll let you know.

Frankenfish

SPOILERS AHEAD ... Of all the forms B-movies can take, a movie about a killer FISH ... is pretty low on my list of natural draws.  Bugs, mutants, snakes, wolves, sharks, Amazon warrior zombies from Uranus  ...  these things, by their nature, have great appeal.  : )  But a killer FISH?  OK, yes, I realize that sharks are fish.  And I'd have been a lot more likely to set aside the time to watch a movie called "Frankenshark" than one called "FrankenFISH".  It's sort like the difference between "Werewolf" and "Weredog" ... you see what I'm sayin?  One just sounds creepier and more impressive than the other.  I realize the movie's produces were trying to stay away from the whole "it's just another shark movie" thing ... but the word "fish" just doesn't carry much weight in this genre.  Unless maybe you pair it with "hell" ... "hell-fish" ... no ... even that sounds a bit soft.

Anyway ... I did eventually set aside time to sit down and watch Frankenfish one night on Sci Fi.  And after watching the introductory sequence with sunset shots of the USS Alabama in Mobile and a mildly (and nicely) grotesque opening sequence, things looked pretty promising.  The writing, directing, acting, lighting and photography in the first several scenes were all pretty good, certainly by B-movie standards.  So, I settled down with dinner to watch.  How did Frankenfish fair in the final analysis?  PLOT - sadly, there is no-one named Dr. Frankenfish with a la-BOR-aTORY in a castle on a mountain top ... but with that said ... "big, nasty fish with lots of teeth and a never ending appetite terrorizes bayou dwelling victims ... and a lawyer dies horribly in the end." ...  That's about it for the plot.  Hey, it's a B-movie, don't hold your breath.  As I said in my title, as fish stories go, it's mostly fish and not much story.  BABES - China Chow, K.D. Aubert (Scorpion King, Fredrick's of Hollywood) and Noelle Evans are all easy on the eyes.  I've not seen much of any of these ladies before, but I wouldn't mind seeing a lot more of all of them, especially Chow and Aubert.  As with many B-movies, there wasn't quite enough "exposure" for my lusty tastes, but the women they picked for this flick were of a rather high visual caliber (BTW ... There are some very nice free swimsuit shots of China Chow available on the web.)  ACTING - By B-movie standards, the acting wasn't bad in this flick.  Experienced actors Tomas Arana (Hunt for Red October, Gladiator, Pearl Harbor) and fellow Cincinnati native Mark Boone Junior (Batman Begins, John Carpenter's Vampires) aid with the whole suspension of disbelief thing and, again, by B-movie standards, the acting holds up fine.  GROSS-OUTS - Frankenfish was among the gorier movies of it's kind to make it to Sci-Fi, featuring plenty of scenes of ... well ... a really nasty giant fish ... chomping the blood soaked crud out of pretty much everyone in sight.  If you like plenty of splashy blood baths ... this one doesn't do too badly.  FEAR FACTOR - well, if the idea of big nasty fish sends chills down your spine, then you might find this one hard to take.  But for the rest of us, even though this was a fairly well crafted creature flick, I can't say I ever felt genuinely tense about what was going on.  GUILTY PLEASURES - One thing B-movie producers should realize (and all to often DON'T) is that if you're going to go to the trouble and expense of making a guilty pleasures movie, make sure you actually provide some guilty pleasures.  Yes, there was a fair amount of blood and yes the babes were pretty attractive.  But shameless pandering to the male and female libido with gratuitously skimpy wardrobes and voyeuristic camera angles  ... always helps.  Loose fitting trousers and blousy shirts on your well selected male and female cast members ... kind of misses the whole point.  If you're gonna do a guilty pleasures movie ... give us more than a trickle of stuff to feel guilty and aroused ABOUT.

Bottom Line ... this is a pretty well crafted, professionally made, sometimes nicely gory flick that falls short on guilty pleasures and story line.  I hear there's some nudity on the DVD version ... so maybe I'll rent it and check it out.