I believe that this movie was definitly thought up by a extremely creative inividual. This movie is really great if you are used to the plot line jumping every which way. Flash backs and fast forwards all add to this complicated and somewhat boring movie. Sorry if you enjoyed it but I really like to not be happy when the movie ends and to be honest I grew really restless and annoyed with this story line.
It all begins with an innocent girl next door, Katie Burke, starting her final year at university. She is plunged into chaos when a detective begins to look for her asstranged boyfriend Embry Larkin. Embry had been gone and believed dead but now Katie swears he's back. He tortures her mentaly until they meet face to face, curtosy of a note left by Embry. They talk but it ultimately it ends up that Kaite is led to keep seeing him because she is still in love with him.
By now Katie has already created a relationship with the charming and handsome detctive, who is a ex-alcoholic (this adds nothing to the movies plot and I don't even know how it would be coherent in this scenerio). The two engage in the relationship however it is very focused around Embry and his actions towards Katie. So as the story develops as they become "closer" to catching Embry when Katie is attacked by him and of course the protective boyfriend follows after.
Now this is where it becomes confusing because through Katies screams at nothing the detective finally discovers that Katie has a problem and it isn't with Embry Larkin. He says the dreaded 5 words: "You can't come with me." and Katie is pushed over the edge killing the detective as she did her boyfriend (which you find out through a flash back). So yes this girl is a skitsofrenic murderer and the reason for which it was never found out was because at those times no one was looking for them or needed to for that matter. To top it off, the building in which they were killed is purposely collapsed for rebuilding purposes within the week so no worries.
Now there are many more things that occur during the movie that make it all the more suspenceful and unexpected however by breaking it down I'm just not sure I can appreciate this film for all it is worth.