Brideshead Revisited was an epic film designed for television, yet has become the yardstick by which subsequent British period dramas are measured by.  The sheer scale of this film, in terms of locations, cast and production costs have been flawless and rather unique; indeed, no expense seems to have been spared in its making.  The principal filming location was at Castle Howard in Yorkshire, an enormous country house which became 'Brideshead', the seat of the Marchmain family.  
The film is eloquently narrated by Charles Ryder, about whose life the story is about.  Beginning as an Oxford undergraduate, Ryder (Jeremy Irons) meets the eccentric Lord Sebastian Flyte (Anthony Andrews) whose family epitomizes the personality and values of the Edwardian English aristocracy.  While sharing a near-intimate bond with Charles Ryder, Sebastian warns him away from the mysterious Marchmain family, and in so doing increasingly draws him into their austere world.  
As the lives of Charles and Sebastian collide more, so does the decline of Sebastian's health become.  Having fallen short of the harsh expectations of his strict Catholic mother, Lady Marchmain (Claire Bloom), Sebastian falls from grace into a perilous state of drunkenness.  While seeking refuge in Charles, Sebastian stubbornly clings to his Catholic beliefs.  Although harking back to his early years at Oxford, Charles can no longer help Sebastian and instead finds love in Sebastian's captivating older sister, Lady Julia (Diana Quick).  Following their adulterous lives, Julia and Charles finally enjoy the peace and harmony they had longed for as a couple, until the death of Julia's father, Lord Marchmain (Sir Lawrence Olivier).  
The important theme of the film revolves around the strict Catholic rules that impinge upon the loves and relationships of the Marchmain family.  As the members of the family become ever more estranged, their faith on Catholicism appears to strengthen.
The language used in the dialogue and narration attests to the quality of Brideshead Revisited as a singularly important period drama.  Indeed, the script is faithfully contemporaneous of the time.  Like a window on the past, Brideshead Revisited gives us a close-up view of both a period and class structure that was influenced by the dignity, religious and social values of that bygone age.