At 85, Robert McNamara has a lot to tell.  He served three years in the U.S. army during World War II, seven years as U.S. Secretary of Defense (invited by Kennedy), thirteen years as President of the World Bank, and briefly as President of Ford Motor.  Basically, this man has been through a lot and it is incredible that he is willing and able to discuss openly what happened back then.  Some label him as an "arrogant dictator" that cares more about facts and figures than human life.  Others praise him as the man whose leadership allowed the United States to stand tall through difficult times.  Either way, his life had a tremendous impact on the security and welfare of the world.

  The film presents "11 lessons" to learn from McNamara's life.  These are no ordinary lessons though; they are of utmost importance.  This is because these lessons were derived from "war mistakes."  For example, the bombing of a city could actually be considered a mistake.  These lessons have to be taken seriously as a matter of life and death.  McNamara stresses that "errors of judgment" in the past were acceptable in the amount of 3 or 4 mistakes, but with the advent of nuclear weapons there can be NO mistakes.  This is because entire nations are now at risk of annihilation.  McNamara is speaking from his heart when he says we have to "try to learn" these lessons and pass them on to future generations.

  The U.S. government "looked down the gun barrel into nuclear war."  "Ninety million Americans targeted by Cuban warheads."  "It was luck that prevented nuclear war."  And best of all, "that danger still exists today."  This is pretty serious stuff coming from former Secretary of Defense.  I was captivated at how McNamara's tone of voice is still optimistic about life, after so many people being killed under his watch.  I was equally captivated at his ability to find positive aspects of war.  It's all a little bit scary.

  This film is all about human mindsets.  Human mindset is what creates wars and is the only way to effectively stop war before total destruction ensues.  It is incredible to have the opportunity to explore McNamara's thinking so closely.  He was confronted with the core dilemma of war.  For example, if you spare 1,000 Japanese lives today, the result would be 10,000 American soldiers killed unnecessarily next month.  The reason for war is defense; kill or be killed.  Unfortunately, the reason is sometimes based on misguided assumption or lies such as the "attack on the USS Maddox."  The decision making process between the United States President and other high ranking officials during times of war is often marked by stress.  The recorded conversation between LBJ and McNamara is incredibly scary.  Simply put, LBJ, the President of the United States, has no deep respect for life and speaks with shocking arrogance. Throughout McNamara's career, he forced himself to answer many difficult humanitarian questions with "yes."  His mindset was often:  the strategic answer is "yes", the internal judgment is "no", therefore the final answer is "yes."  This is unfortunate...

  During this film, I could not help but question McNamara's inner motivation.  It really pulled at my emotions when McNamara described his grade school teacher.  He had a "superb" teacher who ordered the seats in rank according to grades.  Maybe this is where he first encountered the concept of ambition.  It almost brought tears to my eyes watching his facial expressions as he described how he competed against the other students.  Does he really take to heart Jefferson's words "that all men are created equal?"  McNamara mentions his annual salary at least two times and that his family benefited from his status.  Money is important, but I do not think it should have any motivating force when your career deals with the juggling of human lives.  McNamara depersonalized war decisions.  There is no way he could have carried out his duty otherwise.  McNamara became very emotional when describing the loss of a single American wingman after the bombing of an entire Japanese city!  He could hardly speak without bawling when describing Kennedy's assassination, but gracefully pulls out statistics like 100,000 Japanese (many civilian) die in the fire bombing of Tokyo.  If the fire bombing was more than a mere mental concept, or if his own brother was one of those Japanese citizens, he would have broken down emotionally when telling about them.  His personal reality is real, war is just a bunch of concepts that won't go away.

  Towards the end of the film, it is obvious that McNamara is still haunted by unspoken grievances (personal and political).  I can see some recognition of his own regret and I cannot help but feel sorry for all he has been through.  He acted in the best of his knowledge and ability, but I think he still feels that was not enough.  All he can do now is accept it because it could not be otherwise, move on to greater things, and "try to learn."