Although I don't like cowboy movies but this movie seen nice to me. It had some nice parts, some bad part and many different Motions. If I rate this movie it would be an R because there are some scenes that kids can't watch. Like sex, valence, starvation and etc. There are some ladies in the town for sex and they get money for that. Western films have always featured gunplay between the good guys and bad guys, but traditionally, it was kind of a softened violence. You shoot somebody, he falls down cleanly. No pain, no blood, and no real responsibility or consequence placed anywhere. When maverick director (Sam Peckinpah) arrived on the scene, he gave the world a taste of a Western movie most weren't ready for one where bullets actually hurt and spilled blood, and one where the killer often had to watch his dying prey struggle for a last breath. He plays Will Munny, an aging farmer who looks and sounds nothing like the heartless gunslinger he's reputed to be. Throughout the films, we learn bits and pieces of the Munny legend, but have a hard time ascribing it to this careworn man who can barely ride a horse now. "I ain't like that anymore," he protests over and over again.
Directed by (Clint Eastwood). Eastwood puts in an excellent performance as the retired killer Muny, saved from his life of thievery and murder by his late wife. Now, he really trying to support his children with no income, he is tempted back to his killing ways by the detective offered by the women of a brothel, one of whom's number has been badly beaten and disfigured by a drunken ranch-hand.
 The film follows Eastwood as he wrestles with his desire to honour his wife's memory and his need to feed his children by returning to the killer that, he fears, is his true nature. Meanwhile word of the bounty has spread and the events spiral out of control as the sheriff (Gene Hackman) deals with the guns for hire that ride into town.
 While all the supporting cast are excellent Gene Hackman's Oscar winning performance even manages to eclipse Eastwoods as the brutal Sheriff. He beats one of the bounty hunters, English Bob (Richard Harris) almost to death and then explains to a journalist, in one of the film's stand out scenes, how men like he and Muny are so successful at killing. The mood moves from light banter to life threatening seriousness...and back again, with just one move of his head.
One of the greatest Westerns ever made? Certainly. Although the fact it's a western is really secondary. In truth it's a tale of the nature of evil and the nature of man.
Overall, though, this film is indeed worth of the accolades it received. One more I would like to offer, this is one of Clint Eastwood's finest performances ever. His acting is largely what makes Munny so real to us, and thereby makes the movie's message that much more powerful. But the entire cast is first rate, starting with Gene Hackman, who earned his second Academy Award for his work in this film. And, of course, the always excellent (Morgan Freeman) and Richard Harris, who has a couple of the movie's best scenes.  As I mention before this movie was great mostly for adults. It had more valences, killing each other badly.