This is Mudd.  I can't figure out why Goldberg vs. Triple H was the Main Event.  I believe that Taker vs. Vince should have been because of the great ending.

Team Lesnar (Brock Lesnar, Big Show, Matt Morgan, Nathan Jones & A-Train vs. Team Angle (Kurt Angle, John Cena, Chris Benoit, Bradshaw & Hardcore Holly) in a Classic Survivor Series Elimination Match.  This was a decent opening match.  I think it could have been better but what can you do.  Cena wins it for his team when he hits Show with an F-U. (7/10)

Molly Holly vs. Lita for the Women's Title.  This match wasn't that good at all and I decided that it is not worth people's time to watch but if you do only watch the end when Molly unties the bottom turnbuckle and Lita hits her head and then Molly pins her. (4.5/10)

Shane McMahon vs. Kane in an Ambulance Match.  I really enjoyed this match and I thought it was gonna be bad but it was awesome and Kane picks up the win and he's not done for the night. (8/10)

Basham Brothers vs. Los Guerreros for the WWE Tag Titles.  This match was very slow and boring at the beginning and the Basham just stink and that doesn't help much but it gets better and it still wasn't that good.  The Bashams retain their gold. (5.5/10)

Team Austin (Shawn Michaels, Booker T, Dudley Boyz & Rob Van Dam) vs. Team Bischoff (Randy Orton, Chris Jericho, Christian, Mark Henry & Scott Steiner) in a Classic Survivor Series Elimination Match.  I thought this was a great match but it is not a greatest match ever candidate.  Team Bischoff wins when Batista comes down and Powerbombs Shawn Michaels and Orton covers Michaels for the win. (9/10)

Undertaker vs. Mr. McMahon in a Buried Alive Match.  Was a great match and I thought Vince might actually die in this match not just from getting Buried Alive but the beating he took and when Taker is about to bury Vince, Kane comes and blows Taker up and throws him in the hole and buries him alive and this should have been the Main Event. (8/10)

Goldberg vs. Triple H for the World Title.  Was a intersting match and it showed how dominating Goldberg is by taking out all of Evolution and retaining his belt. (8/10)

This PPV barely made it to 4 stars but I thin it deserves it and it is a great DVD to add to your collection.  Get it for Team Austin vs. Team Bischoff.