THE MOVIE: 5/5
Terminator (or The Terminator, if you prefer) is and always will be an excellent movie. It expertly combines the two genres of science fiction and action. This movie was in my opinion James Cameron's break-through movie. After this, he made classic movies such as Aliens, The Abyss, Terminator 2, and of course, Titanic. Terminator truly is a modern classic. It's one of those relatively low budget movies that made it big. You don't need to take my word of it: other reviewers have given it 5 out of 5 stars.

THE DVD RELEASE VS THE BLU-RAY RELEASE
The first DVD release of Terminator was released in the late 1990s. Even though it was widescreen, unfortunately it was non-anamorphic, which can look terrible on a modern widescreen TV (as it only fills the center of the screen and leaves 4 black bars). The audio was the original mono soundtrack, with all its nostalgic 1980s sounding music and dialogue that sounds... somewhat low quality (which was commonplace for a sci-fi B-movie) It's definitely a nostalgic experience in sound.

Recently, I acquired the Blu-Ray of the Terminator. The picture quality was amazing compared to the first DVD. It was anamorphic widescreen and looks nice on a widescreen TV; however, it still isn't quite up to normal HD standards since it was shot on low-quality film. Still, it was a great video improvement. When I first watched it, the audio bugged me, and I didn't quite know why. It turned out that the Blu-Ray had used the 5.1 remix of the sound. It added new sound effects and made the dialogue sound normal. The audio sounded modern, completely different from the nostalgic B-movie sound. Now, call me funny, but I didn't like it. I missed the old, mono quality audio with the cheesy 1980s sound effects that had been replaced with regular, sounding audio and improved sound effects. In my opinion, it took away the warm B-movie feeling that the first DVD had. To top it all off, I found that the Blu-Ray didn't include the original mono soundtrack.

The average viewer might like the Blu-Ray as it looks modern and sounds technically better. Others, like me, might love that warm, 1980s nostalgic experience of the DVD. The choice is yours.