There are a couple of top reviews here that name everything in the video, so I won't go into too much detail on that. But I will justify my 5 stars to note that there are a few things here that may be hard to find for some people. A reviewer pointed out that the Motown 25th "Billie Jean" number had songs cut off, well, that is true and that does suck, I agree, but I'm sure I taped that on a VHS...10+ years ago and don't have it/can't find it/video won't play, so it is nice to have it again on DVD. I think this was a great performance, but to make it a true Michael Jackson experience it should have included his ENTIRE performance.

That said, we also get a performance from the 1995 Grammy Awards that is very good, great dancing, lovely performance and even get a dabble of MJ talking. Loved his soft, sweet voice. I bought this for "Smooth Criminal" and there are several versions of this video, but this is an extended cut, even if there are a couple minutes cut off. Consider it the "long" version.

"Scream" is also a goodie, with two of my favorite Jackson's having fun, dance battling and just kicking butt in a great video while bashing the media at the same time. Priceless.

However, you can certainly tell the sound quality is very poor. For me this is most evident watching "Thriller" No base, no nothing, it sounded very flat. You can tell a bit on "Smooth Criminal" too. That is really bad. I also hate duel sided DVD's. Very cheap in my opinion.  Scene selection is OK, and I do like the title cards for each video, and love the teaser with MJ walking among soldiers to unveil his massive statue of himself. He had no idea how sexy he really was.

Overall, this video needs a third disc with more videos. It definitely leaves something to be desired. But the fact that there are a few things that are hard to find, even on YouTube in some cases, is great. I know we all saw these performances/videos in 1993 or whenever they aired, but those were usually once in a moment times on shows that were never rerun. That's it, they're gone. And when are actually videos shown nowadays? I don't want you to think you're getting great golden gems in extras anyway, basically it's a way for you to have some of his videos, maybe some of your favorites and a couple of nice live performances at hand. This is probably his best video DVD compilation to date.