Bret Fetzer is the Amazon reviewer for this film.  With the exception of implyiing that today's horror lacks both originality and no longer dealing with the more complex matters of the psyche, opting instead for a more simpler, formulaic torturing of "the flesh," he gives a glowing review of the film.

How often have we picked up a newpaper or seen a TV ad giving a raving review for a movie, citing some guy's name who we've never heard of before, only to find out later that he was made-up by the marketing team behind the film or some real nobody who's nothing more than a struggling playwright or writer trying to make extra cash on the side.

Fetzer is no exception.  Haivng only a blog (right there that shoudl tell you something, for only vaid and the mentally/emotionally needy and challenged have a blog), Fetzer's bio reveals him to be a "playwright" re-writing old fairy tales like Beauty and the Beast and writing decidedly more "adult" themed plays whose central focuses are violence and sex.  I guess Fetzer would know then something about a lack of talent and having to fall upon matter of the flesh, the more simpler aspects of art production.

Bottom line is that quite literally Fetzer's paycheck depended on him writing a good review that would sell the product that Amazon's advertisers are selling and also have a good review on file for when the DVD comes out.  Which company will post a bad review for a future product and put off advertisers and companies at the same time?  Just think about it.

Fetzer is enslaved, but as for his actual liking the movie is open to debate.  It could be that he is enslaved to give the movie a more positive review than is merited and that he still likes the film; there is after all no accounting for bad taste.

And bad taste it is to think this movie is anything by terrible.  Not for the blood and scenes of extreme violence.  Not even for the scene of where a person takes a chainsaw to a person and literally cuts them apart.  It is for the nihilistic apathy of how humans are portrayed and the complete lack of respect for the intelligence and sensibility of the audience member.  There is no more art here than, say, smearing fecal matter on a canvas is art.  Only a genuine moron would think otherwise.

Fetzer says there is some poltiical "subtext" becuase the "sardonic joke" is that sadists are willing to pay more money to torture Americans because everyone hates them.

Apparently, he didn't watch the movie very well.  Actually, it is Asian females that command the highest price in the film, Americans coming in next, but regardless of the race or nationality, females withint comparable race and national category being of higher value.  What "subtext" is there in that?: That perhaps society places higher value on women and it is so more taboo to dismember a woman and so richly more decadent an act and thus more valuable a commodity?

One could think of so many "clever" reasons, but there is not insightful political message, overt or hidden here.  Despite Fetzer comparing this film to others like the Devil's Rejects, calling them a display of "brainless sadism" compared to Hostel, Hostel is truly a aimless, pointless film, and moreover to borrow Fetzer's own description: Hostel is truly brainless as well.

Eli Roth has confused an attempt to shock for talent, and is sadly mistaken in thinking the former could ever be a substitute for the later--no matter how much blood or how many severed limbs are thrown at the audience.

There is not even one scene in the entire movie that resonates with you, in which you feel even an iota of compassion or concern for anyone.  The characters are so one-dimensional and unlikable and truly uninteresting.  There is no interest to know why these sadists are the way they are, what makes them proverbially "tick," or how they got there.  We sense no undercurrent of a past somehow subtly at play in their lives.  The villains, ironically, are the most boring of all characters in the film!  That is truly a first for the "horro" genre, perhaps the only really original thing that Roth can make claim.

Yet Hostel is not even an horror film; it is genuinely nonsensical with a thinly told, barely contained narrative that is peppered with a host of unbelievable plot flaws, from how what effectively is a death industy can stay in operation without attract unwanted attention despite there being seemingly hundrends of people disappearing in the town each year to how unrealistic it is that every last victim was never missed.

As for character and plot development, there is none, and there is barely passable acting "talent," if you can call it "talent."  The dialgue is so lame and cheezy that you truly have to wonder if Roth might have written the screen play while under the influence of marajuana and thought at the time it was the most greates thing second to trying to ignite his fart with a lighter.

So dear reader, if you are a genuine horror fan, they you will not find it in this movie.  This film has all the sophistication of the sophomoric nuance of a second year film student.  Only the easily amused would find any "greatness" in it, in which that "greatness" is inversely related to their intelligence quotient.