Adjectives for this movie:  Corny, unrealistic, campy, predictable, borderline ridiculous.  It's definitely not a thought-provoking movie.  Basically what happens is, we meet "Daphne" (Amanda Bynes) at the beginning of the movie; she's an American teenager who works as a catering waitress and has aspirations of attending college.  However, she feels as though something is missing from her life in the form of her long-lost father, Henry Dashwood.  So, Daphne travels to England to find him, but (whoopsies!) she forgets to bring her brain along (she does, however, remember to bring her memory photo album).  Don't worry, though, because her brain is right where she left it when she returns home again at the end of the movie.

I find the character of Daphne both likeable and annoying -- how she can go through most of the movie with that bubble-brained, vacant look on her face and have other characters chasing after her like she's the greatest thing is a mystery to me.  Colin Firth as Henry Dashwood is pretty much a PG-rated "Mark Darcy" (uptight on the surface with a "fun guy" deep down).  Eileen Atkins ("Cold Comfort Farm," "Cranford," "Wolf," "Vanity Fair," and so many more) plays Jocelyn Dashwood; one would have to wonder what she was thinking when she jumped on board with this one, lol.  Jonathan Pryce is another very talented actor in this movie (smh and wondering WTH?).  And Kelly Preston as Daphne's mother, "Libby"...well, I guess this kind of movie is actually right up her alley; it's the British actors that really surprised me.

SO MANY scenes in the movie bordered on absurd (climbing the wall of the Dashwood estate, the Royal Fashion Show, the chandelier incident...).  In fact, pretty much EVERY scene in the movie is absurd.  But do you know what?  I actually like this movie -- I don't love it by any stretch of the imagination, but I do like it.  You'll like it, too, if you just watch it and take it for what it is:  FRU FRU, through and through.  It's one of those movies you watch when your brain is on overload; you don't have to think or solve any mysteries or fear for any of the characters...you're not left asking questions when it's over or wondering just happened.  Yes, you'll drop a few I.Q. points, but you can get them back with a good BBC mini-series ;-)