Wow! What a picture! Last night, after chumming around with a few friends of mine at the country club,I returned home at 3 A.M, prepared to enter into soporific delight when, suddenly, I felt this strange and undeniable urge to turn on my wide screen television set! Thus, I searched frantically for my remote control, and finally when my patience was nearly at an end, I located the remote underneath my alligator skin suitcase.Quickly, I turned on my TV set [$$$],and there before me loomed a haunting image I shall not too quickly forget: a decrepit female corpse eating the brains of a young man who had the terrible misfortune of stumbling into the wrong graveyard at the wrong time!What an interesting concept! Corpses clawing their way through the soil that separates them from the ground level above and their eternal resting places below. But, the Zombie-like corpses have not returned to the land of the living for mere pleasure, of course! NO, they are on a zealous mission to remove from the world as many functioning brains as possible!Clearly, this story is an allegory, or a parable, if you will.  It reminds one of the brain-removing procedures of the epic film "Planet of the Apes," but, of course, the story is really meant to symbolize the communist forces at work in this world, and the cannibalistic nature of ideological disease that is Marxism.
Communism is predicated on the principle that men have an inalienable right to another person's labor, property, and ideas. Sometimes, as the purges of Stalinist Russia demonstrated, a bloodbath is necessary to destroy perceived threats to collectivist dogma. Hence, what is the destruction of 60 million Russians to a nation that simply desires to cultivate a zombie-like populace, unthinking, unfeeling, uncaring: dead to all humanly ambitions except the advancement of their anti-human ideology!Indeed, Free thinkers are not welcome in the graveyard of collectivist ideas!I recommend this movie to the free thinkers of this world! Bolsheviks beware!