After having seen THE 39 STEPS, I wanted to see more Hitchcock films. SABOTEUR was my next choice and it sure did not disappoint but I quickly noticed the very similar plot line between the two movies. In both films, an innocent man is accused of a deadly crime. The police think he is guilty and his only hope is to go cross country to mysterious and shadowy organization that is behind the crimes. Along the way, he meets a beautiful and feisty woman who doesn't believe his story but then she is not so sure. Our hero and his girl keep getting captured by the good and bad guys yet they always make a daring escape. I see a formula here and wonder what I find of other Hitchock films of this area.
I read SABOTEUR was Hitchcock's first film with an American cast. It was great to see Robert Cummings as a young man and in a dramatic role. I always remember him as an older actor in comedic roles. I had never heard of the stunningly beautiful Priscilla Lane and she and Cummings make a good team.
In Saboteur, we have Cummings as Barry Kane a patriotic American working in a munitions factory. His best friend and coworker is killed in a fire at the factory that turns out to be arson. Barry Kane is surely the culprit in the eyes of the police and only Kane can prove his innocence. The mysterious group responsible for this crime turns out to be American born. No foreign terrorists this time. SABOTEUR was released in 1942 during World War II so the film must have hit a strong nerve with the American public.
Although this is a serious drama, there are lots of bits of humor in the film. Kane and his new girl Patricia end up hitching a ride with a traveling circus caravan. They spend the night with the circus "freaks" who for the most part are kind and decent and not freaks in any way other than being different. I thought it was a nice touch in a serious drama.
SABOTEUR is pure Hitchcock and a film a fan shouldn't miss.
I wish the DVD I watched would have had more extras and bonus features like a behind the scenes look at the film or information on the stars and how the script was developed. There were just some footage of sketches done for the final scene set in the Statue of Liberty.