And removed all the sex, friendship, and fun, this is what would be left. Basically it's just a gorgeous girl who has an orgy with labels and credit cards. So why did I give this two stars instead of one? Simply put, Isla Fisher is freaking gorgeous (how Borat got her is beyond me). She easily beats Amy Adams as the hottest redhead in Hollywood (no meagre feat, I might add), and quite frankly, she is so beautiful to watch that I can almost look past the nonexistent script and cardboard performances. Almost. Even with such eyecandy I still want a decent story (I'm not asking for "Citizen Kane" here people. "The Devil Wears Prada" had amazing actors, a great storyline, and gorgeous scenery and wasn't too far away from the concept being presented here but was light years beyond it in presentation). Chick-lit can be witty and interesting, and it's an insult to women to present subpar stories and expect them to eat it up simply because Hollywood believe that it has figured out the female genome for viewing. It's like all of those stupid "Van Wilder" films which are supposed to appeal to men because drinking, partying, goofy off, and hot chicks are presented. Writers need to not be so lazy and actually come up with real thoughtout concepts instead of tired films based on beer and mall ads.
  Okay, the story: beautiful Isla is deeply in debt, living with an equally broke roommate who looks exactly like Katy Perry, comes from an overly frugal family which is why she overcompensates with constant shopping, and now finds herself out of a job. She dreams of working at the top fashion magazine in NYC (really, doesn't Hollywood believe that women have any other hopes and dreams beyond writing about insanely priced clothing made by gay designers who insist that every woman look like a 12 year old boy? I have to ask), and is on her way to interview when she is (literally) seduced by a scarf. Her cards are maxed out and she seeks extra cash at the local hot dog stand where she runs into a British hottie. She tells him a lie about her sick aunt needing the scarf and he generously gives her the money and a bit of a lecture about the worth of things. Long story short, she buys the scarf and goes to the interview where, lo and beyond, the fashion position is taken but a spot in the financial sister mag is open (oh what irony!). What is our girl to do? Of course she goes to the interview where guess who is her prospective boss but generous Brit! She tries to b.s. her way through, but obviously fails. Upset, she stays up all night drinking with her roommate and writes two letters, one to the fashion mag trying to show how bright she is and the other to our beloved Brit telling him what a twit he was. I wouldn't tell you what happens, but you can probably guess or else the film would end here.
 Along the way our lovely Isla finds herself in almost cartoon-esque situations and slowly but surely discovers what is truly valuable in life. One of the most improbable things for me about this movie was the triangle between Isla, the Brit, and some bland blonde chick who worked for the fashion mag. I'm sorry, but given the choice between gorgeous and irresistable Isla and some lifeless stick figure, is there even a debate? I never felt as if the blonde had any chance (then again, who would against Isla? Have I mentioned how beautiful she is?). I thought perhaps I wasn't the target audience so I watched this with my stepdaughter and niece and they both weren't too crazy about this film either. Script writers need to leave the "Sex and the City" concept alone. It worked great for that programme, but that was lightening in the bottle. The magic will not be recaptured no matter how many gorgeous women they show walking and shopping in designer stores up and down the streets of New York. I'm hoping that the antimateralistic message will catch on in these trying economic times, but I suspect that all this film will inspire is for more women to go to their local salons in an attempt to achieve Ms. Fisher's glorious mane. Decent effort but it sadly fell flat.