I was intrigued when this movie came out.  For one thing I vaguely remembered watching "Get Shorty" and enjoying it.  At the same time I couldn't for the life of me remember what the first movie was about.

Neither could any of my friends.

After we got together and watched Get Shorty again, we all wondered how they were able to market a sequel.  Get Shorty was a good watch, but not very memorable, and I'm not sure why it got a sequel.

While Get Shorty wasn't an excellent or even memorable film, it wasn't a bad one, and I had good expectations for Be Cool.

Despite its name, Be Cool isn't cool because it simply tries too hard to "be cool".  A lot of the dialogues are forced and boring.  There are not really any catchy, quotable lines to be found.  There are a lot of lines portrayed as edgy and hooky, but they all seemed to fall flat.

I found the attempts at being hip and "cool" to be laborious and mostly missing the mark.  The whole gangster rapper scene has got to be one of todays most overplayed themes today, yet it was a central part of this film.  The American Idol/rising star story was another attempt at being with the times that ends up looking dated.

The cast performed well considering the script.  Travolta was his usual smooth self while Thurman was okay but not at her best.  Vaughn as always was entertaining, even though his character was a very contrived and stupid one.  The actor who I feel did the best job in this film was Cederic the Entertainer, who really played his part exceptionally.  Although I found his speech on African American contributions to society to be very over the top and beside the point, he still did an excellent job at it.

The main problem with this film is that the story doesn't really go anywhere.  Let me rephrase that: the story tried to go a lot of places at once, and didn't do a good job at any of them.  It ended up going everywhere and nowhere at the same time.  The result was an unfocused, unstylized, and often downright uninteresting watch.

The beginning of the film is somewhat entertaining, with the tongue in cheek commentary on the parallels between Travolta's real life and his characters.  I also thought Chili's comment on  1 F-word in a PG-13 movie with him proceeding to use Be Cool's 1 F-word was clever.

After that, the movie pretty much went downhill.

There really isn't a marked climax to the film, or even a buildup.  The story consists of Chili going around doing whatever he wants, despite threats from thugs who are hardly threatening or believable.

The Russians are a joke, despite the fact that they kill someone at the beginning of the film.  The gangster/rapper/thug/producers are a bit more interesting, but I still never believed for a second they would be a threat.  And Vince Vaughn's group is just ridiculous.

A lot of guns are pointed at Chili and a lot of threats are made, but I just didn't buy it.  There was never a situation in which it looked like Chili wouldn't make it.  There were maybe one or two scenes where he smoothly talked his way out of the situation,  and I did like his interaction with Cedric's character, but there was still nothing surprising or "Edge of your seat" throughout the whole movie.

While I realize this film is meant to be a light comedy, there should at least be a believable and appealing conflict somewhere in the script, and there just isn't.  The viewer just doesn't feel genuinely concerned over the plight of any of the characters.  Chili can take care of himself and Uma, Linda is unappealing and formulaic, and as for the rest of the good guys - oh wait, there really aren't any more!

Perhaps the biggest detractor from the watchability of this film is the constant barrage of advertising, or "product placement".  While supposedly this form is advertising is quiet and unobtrusive, I found it to be glaring and annoying, with the movie feeling at times more like an hour long advertisement than a Movie.  It certainly doesn't make me want to buy an H2, a T-mobile phone, Domino's pizza, or even a Honda Insight any time soon.

While it does have some serious flaws, the movie does have some strong points, such as Travolta and Uma's tango scene and the first interaction between Travolta and Cedric.

Overall I would recommend that you rent this movie before buying it.  Odds are you will have an enjoyable night watching this film, but it probably won't be something you'd want to buy.