I first read Shane the book in High school and I too took a liking to Shane the character just like the boy Joe did in the book. In the opening of the movie we see Shane riding down into the Teton Valley and the majesty of those mountains is breathtaking. This movie was one of the most realistic and original westerns I have ever seen. With its mysterious yet appealing and friendly character portrayed to perfection by Alan Ladd. He is slow to anger, thinks before he acts and only uses violence as a very last resort. Anyone who has been at the receiving end of a bully's abuse can feel for Shane when he is ridiculed and harassed by Ryker and his men. Also, we feel for the boy Joey who probably has few friends living on a big ranch and whose father is busy working that ranch most of the time. Then Shane comes along and slowly, reluctantly gets involved with the problems that the homesteaders are having with the cattle rangers (Ryker). In that respect it is also a history lesson. We learn of the problems that went between these two ways of making a living in the west. The scenery of the Grand Tetons, which acts as a background to the Starrett family's homestead in the foreground, is totally realistic and absolutely gorgeous. In fact it WAS real, filmed almost completely on location. For the first time in a western we see a real western town with buildings only on one side of the street. Westerns always used buildings on both sides of the street sometimes to hide modern buildings in the distance. The attention to life like detail in this movie is extraordinary from the buildings to the clothes they wear. We see the characters walk through the mud in the street after a heavy rain. The true danger of guns is displayed when Shane teaches young Joe how to shoot. And we get both view points of gun control in a scene right after that. Interesting how these arguments in a movie from 1951 are still being made today over 50 later. If you don't like Westerns, which I generally don't, I think you'll like this one. An interesting change is when the first guy that ridiculed Shane and fought with changes sides and respects Shane. This is real life. I have had that happen many times where the person who ridiculed me at first and I thought was me enemy becomes my friend later on. And sometime those who were your friend at first turn against you later on. At the end of the movie, when the young Joe says to Shane, "We want you.", we feel the same way. We all want a hero like Shane not to leave and to be our friend and help us out now and then. In the end Shane rides off continuing in the same direction he was going in the beginning of the movie with young Joe calling out to him pleading with him to stay. We feel heart broken and tears swell up in our eyes as we feel the boy's loss, but as grown ups we somehow know that Shane must continue on to where he was going before.

The extra of this movie is exceptional. It is commentary during the entire length of the movie by the director's son who worked on the movie at age 17 and the assistant director. It is absolutly facinating. The picture quality is very good and the techincolor very well done.

This is a heart felt movie that extremely well done and is a must see for everyone.