The problem with trying to make a good film is that there's so much that can go wrong. No-one starts out to make a bad movie, but keeping control of every aspect of the process would test anyone's strength. 
Not only do you have to cope with egotistical actors demanding that the part be played their way, and pretentious cinematographers insisting that the entire film be shot looking at the characters' feet, but you also have to juggle callous studio execs whose only intention is to drain the film of all its creativity so as to make it "accessible to a wider audience",... This is why 1995's The Usual Suspects is such an achievement. Everything about it reeks of quality.
Director Bryan Singer had only made one film before The Usual Suspects, 1994's Public Access. Despite only being a mini-budget piece restricted to art house cinemas, it managed to garner the attention of Kevin Spacey, then an accomplished stage actor looking for a break into mainstream cinema. Spacey approached the twenty-six year old and offered his talents, only to find that Singer had already written a part specifically with him in mind. The character was Verbal Kint, enigmatic narrator of The Usual Suspects. There followed a casting executive's dream roll call - Gabriel Byrne, William Baldwin, Chazz Palminteri, Benicio Del Toro and Kevin Pollak signed on in short order, making arguably the best ensemble cast since Glengarry Glen Ross (in which Spacey also starred). Special mention needs to be given to Benicio Del Toro, whose hilariously erratic character Fenster steals every scene he's in.
Singer's long-time writing partner Christopher McQuarrie took a simple premise - five hardened cons meet in a New York lineup - and turned it into a stylish crime thriller of labyrinthine complexity with an ending that would become one of the most startling in cinema history, causing the viewer to reassess their opinion of the entire film in a way that would be emulated in later years by The Sixth Sense and Fight Club.
The Usual Suspects was shot in thirty days on a budget of five million dollars, which was a pittance when you consider that most romantic comedies cost at least twenty. Yet here was a film that did not shy from spectacle, with intense gun battles intercutting incredibly dense dialogue, edited together to look like a blockbuster of ten times its budget. The music, too, deserves special mention, with sweeping orchestral movements giving way to Cuban rhythms and delicate piano, echoing the depth and complexities of the story itself.
The film plays out like - and essentially is - a story told by a craftsman. In a nice twist, it begins with the death of the supposed central character (Gabriel Byrne in a wonderfully mysterious portrayal of an ex-con lured back into the game) and the rest of the film takes place almost entirely after the events it depicts. Spacey's character sits in a police office and recounts the story of five criminals thrown together in a lineup, deciding to go into business for themselves, only to learn that their fate is being guided by the hand of a terrifying arch-criminal, Keyser Soze. To reveal more of the plot is to spoil the film; suffice to say, one viewing will not be enough.
The Usual Suspects is that rare thing: A film in which no aspect is found wanting. Most movies involve the odd cringeworthy moment; a chunk of cheesy dialogue, a bad performance here or there, an unsatisfying ending - but Suspects oozes  quality in a way that the majority of modern films are not allowed to do, whether because of production companies clouding the auteur's vision, arsehole actors throwing their weight around, or simply bad luck and lack of funds. Perversely, Suspects' low budget could be the main reason for its success, since the filmmakers were given far more free rein to pursue their goals without studio executives breathing down their necks. And it shows. The Usual Suspects went on to garner two Oscars (Best Original Screenplay, and Best Actor for Kevin Spacey) and assembled a following of committed devotees.
Watch it, be confused, watch it again and love it.