Just saw the film, wanted to comment about it.

If you buy this DVD, you might want to watch the "making of" film first. It might help you appreciate the movie when you know that this movie is a massive experiment that just exploded in scope from originally being a video game to following the evolving vision of the project leader into making a full-length film.

In case you weren't reading between the lines, this movie was made by demoscene and video game producers and designers, not movie producers. They were newbies at the silver screen. And for that reason alone, it took an incredibly amazing feat to pull this movie off. In fact, this was a seven-year project, and Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within wasn't supposed to happen because these guys were trying desperately to produce the first full-length sci-fi movie in CGI for the silver screen, ever.

That said, this is one frickin weird movie. There are scenes here that remind me of the freakshow demos at scene dot org, only here they are played out longer and with much greater depth, color, and detail. I mean that in a good and bad way, both. Anyone who has seen modern PC demos has seen those shapes that look like melted swiss cheese, and somewhere in the middle of it is the shape of a human body. That's the sort of artwork that this movie loves to portray. It's good because it's familiar; I can point at that and say, hey, that's the stereotype work of European 3D demo / game video effects designers. It's bad, too, though, because it's seriously overdone in this film.

As a story, the concept was interesting. Unfortunately, the filmmaking directions and the script were lacking. Character development was very dry--probably due to bad acting and unbelievably plastic animation. When Kaena wanted to save her village, for instance, I rolled my eyes, thinking, why? Who cares about the village? The movie also has some very abrupt cutscenes, and the animation does stutter from time to time. The bodies of the characters seemed a little lopsided now and then, and I was immediately reminded of the animation and visual character design work done in the movie Antz--just a little plastic and weird, unlike the characters in The Spirits Within.

If you're looking for a good Hollywood flick, overlook this movie, unless of course you're bored. This movie is a piece of museum art, and does not befit the store shelves at Wal-Mart, which is why Wal-Mart will probably sell it for cheap.

This movie is a work of art simply because of its background.... you have a bunch of video game developers who had a dream to make a great movie, and it's their first movie, made entirely out of simple video game technology, and look what they achieved! Very impressive and inspiring.