I can certainly see how the opinions of this movie may be totally scattered.  This could possibly depend on one's personal interest in the Physchiatric field of study, also onto psychoanalysis and just how far you personally are willing to take it's concepts.

This wonderfully informative movie, based on a true story, begins in Switzerland in 1904, at the hospital where a younger Dr. Carl Jung (Michael Fassbender) is busy working with patients.  He is a devout student of Dr. Sigmund Freud's theories at the time.  Jung is married and he and his wife are expecting their first child.

Freud (Viggo Mortensen, who is excellent portraying the doctor) is following as closely as can be to conventional thinking within the 'new study', which has vastly gained in popularity. Freud is a monogamous family man with several children.

Dr. Freud is now in his later fifties and well respected in the medical community although is constrained to have his theories accepted in the society of the day.  He must conform to a certain degree as not to step on too many toes for 'the new thinking' to spread.

Into Jung's peaceful hospital setting arrives Sabina Spielrein (Keira Knightly in a brilliant performance) severely ill, contorting, screaming and resisting with all she has within her.  Jung begins to work with her by talking while seated behind her asking questions (with her convulsing in her chair) to get to the origin of her illness.

Through a long journey of psychoanalysis, he is able to reach her and to help turn her life back around after the horrific abuse she has sustained.  He is also able to see within her the drive she has to become a Dr. of Psychiatry herself and encourages her. During her healing and beginning school, they become friends and confidants of sorts.

After a couple of years Jung goes to Vienna to visit his mentor, Freud and speak of many issues.  Dream interpretations, the patient Sabina and "the talking cure" are discussed as the two colleagues begin to get to know each other, in a mutual respect.  They begin writing to each other, discussing new insights, even testing out interpretations on each other.

Shortly after the two giant minds meet, Jung crosses the line and begins an aggresive affair with Sabina as Freud has been suspecting.  The rumor mill has been aptly turning, Freud defending Jung, although questioning him at the same time.

The correspondence of Freud and Jung runs a course of approximately seven years as differences of opinion and the two Dr.s realize how different they are.  Jung being more of a visionary and Freud more scientific to remain medically relevant within the limitations of the time.

The story goes on also between Jung and Sabina for the course of the movie with the addition of love, guilt, marriage, pregnancies and several other themes which are introduced and explored.  All three of the main actors present an exceptional portrayal of each doctor.

I found this movie very astute.  Wonderfully driven with dialogue and full of interesting theories. It is definitely an entertaining vehicle for learning some things yourself in and through the doctor's discourse.