When I first saw this movie in the theater, I was so captivated by it that I went back the next day and saw it again. (It was so overwhelming that I couldn't think of anything else, anyway.) I just dug around in my files, and (miraculously!) found the review I wrote December 31, 1973. It was long, but here are parts of it:
I started with a description of du Maurier's original story (it wasn't a novel): "An English couple vacationing in Venice meets up with two Scottish women, twins, one blind and 'psychic.' She tells them--or the wife, Laura, as the husband wants nothing to do with them--that their recently-drowned daughter is with the couple, that she is happy and wants them to be happy, and that they should leave Venice because there is 'danger.' A telegram from England that their son is sick sends Laura back on the first plane, with John to follow by train. But before he leaves he sees Laura and the twins boating down the Grand Canal, and certain that the twins have done something to his wife he starts searching the sinking city for them. That's as far as I'll take this synopsis.
"The film is practically a textbook exampke of how to turn a printed story into a movie. For instance, the telegram from England is turned into a phone call. Beyond that, there is a care taken with the characters that du Maurier did not bother with: The minor characters are, all of them (with one necessary exception that I won't go into here, and the sisters--not twins--who remain enigmatic), are more than one-dimensional. No-one is there only for his plot purposes. Everyone with a part bigger than a walk-on has a little scene in which he gets to show us a little about himslef that isn't necessary for us to know, but which fleshes out his personality. The major change is to make John not a vacationer; he is in Venice not to relax but to work.
"I could go on and on about the film: the acting (Donald Sutherland is great, Julie Christie the best I've seen her), the photography (rich and beautiful; Venice is strikingly, almost attractively, ugly), the music, everything. I highly recommend this movie."
I recommended seeing the movie without reading the story first--or at all--"except in this case: If suspense in a movie theater, where there are no commercials and you can't put the book down briefly, might cause you some anguish (I'm being serious here), read the story first so you know what to expect, and just enjoy the movie as a movie."
So, as you can see, even when I was in my early 20s I didn't find the movie slow, or nothing but symbolism, or any of the other complaints by the minority here. And seeing it again now, on this beautiful DVD, hasn't changed my opinion. It's marvelous. I find it interesting that I didn't even mention the sex scene in my review, though it certainly was then and is still now a great scene, the cross-cutting very appropriate to the characters and where they are in their lives.
My best friend then wrote me a long letter explaining to me that I was totally wrong about the film, that it was too arty and too mechanical and too long ("a two-hour toothache") and besides, it scared him too much.... 
I think you should risk the toothache, in case it turns out you like it as much as I do.