Maurice (Peter O'Toole) is an aging British actor who falls for his best friend's niece, Jessie. Jessie ends up being a total party girl, unlike anything Maurice, nor her uncle ever expected. She drinks all of her Uncle Ian's alcohol, cusses at him, she's rude, and she just plain hates the man.

One day Maurice realizes that he is in love with the girl. Jessie is about eighteen, while Maurice is going on eighty. He begins to buy her stuff, and takes her out on the town in a rented limo. He also takes her to see the painting, Venus at the London museum. Maurice tells Jessie that she is Venus, and he begins to call her by that name.

One day Jessie brings her boyfriend over to Maurice's house. Let's just say all hell breaks loose after that!

This is quite a good story, it's not exactly like I thought it would be. Since this is a British movie, there are parts that I didn't understand. I guess I'm not that cultured...yet.

Peter O' Toole is simply amazing in this movie! In my opinion he is playing himself, an aging actor.

Also, I have two favourite scenes in this movie. The first one has to be when Maurice gets Jessie a modeling job. Everything goes fine until Jessie learns it's nude modeling and Maurice wants to watch! The art teacher makes Maurice leave, but that doesn't stop him from peeking over the door, which results in a hilarious Larry David moment.

The other scene has to be when Jessie is trying on some new earrings that Maurice bought for her. She is wearing nothing but her underwear because by now Jessie has realized that Maurice has a crush on her, and she thinks it's funny to tease him. Maurice goes and slips his hand over her bra, and begins to feel her breast, then Jessie does a karate jab into his rib, while saying, "Maurice you had it coming!"

Anyway, you come away from the movie with I think a better understanding of the world around you, and no matter how old you're, you can still have tons of fun.

Oh, Peter O' Toole was robbed out of an Oscar for this role.