With the "gay 90's" in full steam, the producers at Twentieth Century Fox decided that they would produce a film that would represent the relationship a young urban woman and her gay male friend have while trying to rebound from broken relationships. That film, "The Object of My Affection" takes a major turn from the traditional Hollywood love story of the past.
Nina, played by Jennifer Aniston (television's "Friends"; "Office Space") and George, played by the lovable Paul Rudd ("Clueless"; "William Shakespeare's Romeo &amp; Juliet") are roommates living in New York City. George, who recently broke up with his boyfriend played by Tim Daly (television's "Wings") takes up Nina offer to room with her, but by doing so, it appears that both of them will be spending a lot of time together, almost like a couple.
Nina's infatuation with George begins to grow, and although he is gay, her attraction and love for him thrives in her. As the film progresses, Nina asks George if he wants to help her raise her unborn child together as a couple, and he agrees. Yet, love steps in the way as George meets a young actor that sweeps him off his feet. Soon there is little time for Nina, and the plot continues as it explores the aftermath of Nina and George's once brief, non-sexual relationship.
Director Nicholas Hytner does an excellent job in capturing Rudd and Aniston's charm onscreen. Both actors are excellent, and I must admit that Rudd's character is so adorable and cute, that it will make every straight woman want a gay friend like him in their lives. The film, which ends on a happy note, could have been a bit much more better if we got more of the outcome from George's and Nina's new romances. 
"The Object of My Affection" is one of the cutest romances to come out in years. I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to understand what life for a single woman and gay male in the big city can be. Overall, an excellent comedy that serves justice telling a politically correct relationship.