When you think of a vampire, you think of a being that is very sadistically evil and deadly. When you think of a vampire with a soul, you think of a hero. And that is what Angel is. Angel is a vampire, cursed with a soul and with that soul comes the memories of those he terrorized for over 150 years as Angelus. Now, after being brought back for the depths of Hell, he is chosen by the Powers that Be to use his vampire powers for the good of mankind.
That is the story of Angel, which begins here. He was Buffy Summer's, the slayer, love interest for 3 seasons on Buffy. Now, away from the temptation of his love, he vows to use his powers for the good of mankind. He is in the City of Angels, LA, and that is where his journey for redemption begins.
I loved the show Angel when it came out because it came when the creative juices of Buffy were at it's peak. Angel was a character that seemed interesting to me. He is looking to be redeemed for the evil things he has done, by doing right. We all have been there. We all have sinned ourselves and in a sense we also are looking for that same forgiveness. His however is a bit more complicated.
The season opens up with Angel in his new place and a mysterious half breed human/demon named Doyle comes and shakes up Angel's world. He tells him that he can provide Angel with visions of people in need in which Angel can save. Along with Cordelia Chase, the three set out to start Angel Investigations.
What made the show so great was not just the awesome action or even the great storyline, but the actors. The connection that the actors had was vivid right from the start. They just worked well together and it shows in the quality of the show. 
But the thing that makes Angel Angel is the stories and other characters. We meet Kate, a cop who befriends Angel. We see Faith, the rogue slayer, face off Angel in a crucial episode. Spike, Oz, and even our dear Buffy comes to guest on Angel's show. It's these connections that made the first season so good.
When I bought this DVD set, I was shocked at the size of the set. 6 discs, each with 3 or 4 episodes. Yes some may say the quality is not so good but hey, it is a TV show and a damn good looking one. The sets, lighting, and atmosphere are something that most shows don't have. 
So if you are a fan of Buffy and of course the character of Angel, this first season set is a great thing ti own. Not only do you get to explore Angel's first chapter of heroics, but you also get to explore Angel's dark past and look forward to his promising future. Get this with Buffy Season 4 because the two shows have connections.