Robert Duvall is my all time favorite actor and this is his masterwork.  He wrote it, directed it, financed it, produced it and starred in it and it's damn near perfect.  He doesn't make Sonny Dewey out to be anything other than an imperfect man who has an unflinching, unfailing belief in God and whose appetites often get the best of him.

The movie doesn't advocate faith or denigrate it.  All it does is give faith and those people who have it respect and tells a story that is rooted in a person of total faith.  He faith is so total that he literally gives up his current life and all of his possessions to walk randomly believing that God will put him where He wants him to be.  Oh, and he's also running from the law.

See what Duvall does there?  The atheist will say he's just running from the law and using the "God-thing" as an excuse to get away from the cops.  The devout Christian will say he's showing true faith by putting his life in God's hands and totally trusting Him.  Who's right?  Depends on your point of view, but Duvall will never judge either viewpoint.  He just created a fascinating character and inside of a fascinating sub-culture that is rarely viewed dispassionately.  The Revivalist sub-culture is often caricatured as either as superstitious, uneducated idiots or sacred warriors whose work cannot be criticized, but Duvall just treats it, and the people in it with respect.  Yes, it's clear he has an affinity for many of the people in it, but he also shows some of the dirty sides of them as well.

The part that fascinates me the most about the movie is the use of non-actors in many of the roles.  The film is completely set in a charismatic, Pentecostal, revivalist sub-culture and he uses actual members of that culture to provide an authentic look and feel.  He then inserts a handful of phenomenal actors (Duvall himself, Billy Bob Thornton, Miranda Richardson, Walton Goggins) and goes to town.

The result is a damn near perfect movie.  Watch it.  Enjoy it.  I have, many times.