I first saw this movie in the theatre because at that point in time I'd have gone to see anything starring Brad Pitt.  What a revelation the movie turned out to be!  Pitt's performance blew me away.  I wouldn't have given odds that he could hold his own against mega-talent Anthony Hopkins, but it was a match made in Heaven.  The basic story line is that Hopkins' character, a successful man who is the head of a powerful corporation as well as of a close-knit family, is having symptoms of an incipient heart attack.  Pitt, who plays "Death", takes the body of a young man, and decides to strike a deal...he will delay Hopkins' demise, and in exchange he will be a guest in Hopkins home and world.  Death wants to experience human life. Before Death makes an appearance, Pitt (as the young man whose body is later co-opted by Death) meets Hopkins' favorite daughter in a random way, over coffee, and both experience strong instant attraction.  When Pitt (no longer the very human young man but a remote and other-worldly essence who is using his body) shows up at her father's house during a family dinner, her confusion is tempered by the fact she still is attracted...but now wonders what happened to the likable guy she'd met earlier.
  Brad Pitt's dual portrayals; first of the charming and good-natured guy in the coffee shop, then contrasted with the very non-human consciousness of "death" masquerading as a human being is nothing short of astonishing.  This was the movie that convinced me Brad Pitt could really ACT.  He is utterly different as each character, although in both he is outwardly a very attractive young man in a business suit.  It's in his eyes that you see the shattering difference...and realize when you look into them that there is nothing human looking out, as "Death".  I remember being awestruck in the theatre, and thinking, "Where did he PULL that from????"  How does one develop a character that is essentially inhuman, immortal and still frighteningly beautiful?  It was a masterful job of acting!
  Anthony Hopkins, as the man whose remaining life is under the control of Death, is brilliant, as always.  In his role as a father, a corporate leader, and then as a father fighting for the life of his daughter (Death has fallen in love with his daughter, and she with him; Hopkins must make Death develop human love and morality, in order to convince him not to "take her with me" when they depart for Death's true domain)...he uses all the talent and skills we expect of him.  His portrayal is achingly human and rises to our highest expectations.
  Along with a stunning supporting cast..each character fully developed and unerringly portrayed...I always thought this movie didn't get half the buzz it deserved.  It's one I will happily watch again and again.<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0783233477">Meet Joe Black</a>