Scorsese has probably created the greatest motion picture of the last thirty years in Raging Bull. I've seen it roughly half a dozen times and with each viewing it seems to engross me more than the last.

Based on LaMotta's biography ( a fantastic book), Raging Bull is as real and authentic as a film can possibly get. The finest scenes are not necessarily the fight sequences, but rather the script and dialogue between the brothers (Jake's brother is played by Joe Pesci in a first rate performance) are as realistic as I've yet to come across. Moreover the scenes of the classy old New York City nightclub world are simply astounding. They'll make you long for an era that has since passed into history along with the catchy Big Band music that went along with it.

Speaking of past glory days, the world of professional boxing is portrayed in Raging Bull when it enjoyed its highest popularity. LaMotta, Sugar Ray and Joe Louis were kings; this was the era of boxing that just preceded the arrival of Ali.

DeNiro's performance is stunning. One can easily see why he so desperately attempted to talk Scorsese into making Raging Bull; thankfully his arm twisting paid off. By now it's old news about how he put on 40 lbs of weight in order to portray LaMotta over the course of a twenty-five year span. People should rent the film simply to witness a method actor undergoing a fascinating on screen transformation.

This really isn't a sports movie, it's a top shelf drama in which the main character happens to be a contending middle weight fighter.
The line in which Jake describes an upcoming opponent to a gangster over a drink: "He's so good looking, I don't know whether to 'blank' him or fight him" left me on the floor in laughter. Even if you don't enjoy sports you have got to give Raging Bull a try. Scorsese uses a color sequence only a few times when reflecting on LaMotta family videos, otherwise the bulk of the picture is shot in a beautiful and nostalgic black and white, which makes it hard to believe it was produced in the late 1970s.

At the end of their final match, as soon as the bell rings to end the last round, a beaten and battered LaMotta walks over to Sugar Ray and says to him "Never went down, never went down, Ray; you never got me down, Ray." That's sort of how this movie comes off, it will never lose its appeal.