Here is my take on an older movie that already has over 200 reviews - I have seen it twice because it is worthy of that acknowledgment:

Nicholas Van Orton lives a cold, sterile life, haunted by the suicide of his father which has indelibly marked him as a child who witnessed it - he can't get it out of his mind.

His birthday is coming up, another one of them he doesn't see any use for.  Everyone wishes him well, from a distance, because that is what is required of anyone who knows him.  His estranged little brother, Conrad, the exact opposite of himself in personality, but who also had personal issues he had to deal with, calls him, posing as an old friend, Seymore Butts - because he obviously thinks that's the only way the invitation will be accepted since his social standing has suffered in comparison with his successful, distant older brother - requesting his presence at dinner.  This does draw a sort of smile from the cast iron face of Nicholas, and he sets it up through his secretary.  A painful dinner conversation ensues, and the roguish little brother presents Nicholas with a gift - a gift certificate to play a reality game, although nothing is known or revealed about it.  He thinks it's a bunch of hooey, but it's paid for, so he decides what the heck.

Things happen rapidly from there on and it is best to not reveal the plot, mainly because it's impossible.  But there is a message if one wants to look for it through the fray.

My Summary:  It was an action flick with an embedded message:  Life is what you make it and you need to live it while it is in front of you rather than using crutches or casting blame for things you cannot control.  That may be easier said than done but the concept is a truth.  You don't need drugs, alcohol or psychiatrists because real life is a trip of it's own if you have the nerve to go for it - no excuses, and the devil take the hindmost.  But you DO need to live it and enjoy it;  you DO need love and your own people around you or the whole thing is for nothing.  And sometimes that should be worthy of a self-analysis before it's too late.