This is a must see for every person, whether or not you are a fan of musicals.  I hate musicals and didn't even want to see this, but my aunt dragged me to it and I entered with a negative attitude, hoping it would be over and done with as soon as possible.  However, the opening song "All that Jazz," performed by Catherine Zeta-Jones (Velma Kelly), simply shocked me.  Zeta-Jones is truly talented and has a strong, wonderful and beautiful voice.  Her performance really surprised me.
The movie went on to throw out other astounding numbers such as "Funny Honey," "When You're Good to Mama," "Cell Block Tango," "Razzle Dazzle," and "Mr. Cellophane" to name a few.  The performances of Catherine Zeta-Jones, Ren&eacute;e Zellweger, and Richard Gere shocked me completely.  I had no idea they could sing or dance like that, and every number was so rich with talent and life that I found myself lost in the movie.
As Richard Gere said, each song really does have amazing entertainment value.  The music, lyrics, performance of the actors, the choreographing...everything was simply amazing.  By the end of the movie I didn't want to leave.  I have never before enjoyed musicals and while this one does have its old Broadway persona to live up to, it is truly a wonderful movie.
Ren&eacute;e Zellweger's musical performance pales a bit in comparison to the rest, especially to Zeta-Jones whose previous musical experience was unknown to many, but she did a wonderful job portraying the star-struck, fame-chasing Roxie Hart.  Richard Gere (Billy Flynn) gives a wonderful performance with his acting and singing, as well as tap dancing which he learned just for this movie.
Queen Latifah (Mama Morton) and John C. Reilly (Amos Hart) were wonderful as well, and everyone really did hold their own.  The casting was well done, the singing and dancing (all performed by the actors themselves) is simply wonderful and will keep you glued in your seat and locked on the screen from start to end.
A must-see for everyone!!!