Let's get this clear from the start. No matter what Scorsese says about being 'inspired' by Infernal Affairs (the original Hong Kong hit movie) and what writer Monahan says about the original work he put into 'researching' the script, this is simply a REMAKE. The plot, the scenes, the characters ... everything has been basically lifted from the original. The phone calls, the cinema scene, the taking of names by the Tsang/Nicholson character, the envelope with the corrected writing, the rooftop climax, the shooting of the Leung/DiCaprio character ... all these scenes and more have simply been carbon copied into The Departed. Even the expressions, pace, camera angles and other details have been faithfully reporduced. In an ironic reversal of roles, Hollywood is now doing the pirating of Asian movies now. So if you have watched and enjoyed Infernal Affairs (IA), what you have to ask yourself before paying to buy this DVD of The Departed (TD) is: Is TD any different from IA? Do the differences make TD better than IA? Are the differences great enough to justify my splashing cash on a flagrant copy of IA?

So what are the differences between the two movies? Here's some of the more important ones:

1. Jack Nicholson gets a HUGE expansion of his role (orginally Eric Tsang's in IA). This is where Monahan did his homework, fleshing out the role of this evil gangster with real-life Boston underworld details. Whereas Tsang had a relatively secondary role supporting the two younger leads, Monahan and Scorsese turn Nicholson's character into arguably the central pivot of their movie. Nicholson delivers a fantastic performance, creating one of the most memorable bad guys of the last 10 years. It is tempting to say that ol' Jack's virtuoso display alone is worth the price of the DVD. But IMHO this overly strong performance actually comes very close to overshadowing the entire theme of the story. The success of the original IA was the fine balance between the 2 sides: Tony Leung & Anthony Wong (DiCaprio & Sheen) pitting wits against Andy Lau & Eric Tsang (Damon & Nicholson). This edgy and closely-matched battle was critical to the genius of the story. Nicholson's scene-stealing is eminently watchable but undermimes the central Damon-DiCaprio battle. Damon is in many ways reduced to Nicholson's stooge. This is a shame because both Damon and DiCaprio deliver truly great performances of their own which would already have carried the movie well.

2. The setting is changed from Hong Kong to Boston. This is done flawlessly. The basic story of IA was sufficiently brilliant enough to allow transposition to New England without any hint of awkwardness. Here, Scorsese works brilliantly with the script and actors to give a convincing Bostonian feel to the movie. The accents are natural enough, the settings feel right, and the details put the audience right in the heart of Boston (such as the rugby games etc). The first 1/3 of TD, where the characters of DiCaprio and Damon's characters are being fleshed out are easily its greatest area of improvement over IA.

3. TD adds the dimension of a love triangle evolving between Damon, DiCaprio and the psychiatrist. At first, this feels so contrived. Yeah right, so in a large city like Boston it just so happens that these two moles are stalking each other ... but they also just happen to go for the same woman?! Gimme a break. But after watching TD, it actually works OK. In IA, the psychiatrist (Kelly Chen) only acts as a foil to allow Tony Leung to verbalize his internal conflict as an undercover agent. Sammi Cheng's role as Andy Lau's love interest is even more redundant and sticks out like a sore thumb. Combining these two female roles into one actually serves to reduce their irrelevancy in this mainly male movie. The only downside is that the scene where Tony Leung comes across his ex-girlfriend and the daughter he never knew he had is gone from TD. That is a terrible shame: it was easily one of the most poignant and emotional moments in both movies - and a candidate for Top 100 Best Moments in movie history.

4. Mark Wahlberg's character is superfluous. Yes, he delivers a probably career-best performance - but the character really is completely non-essential. It is as though Scorsese and Monahan realized they stacked the hand of the gangsters excessively with Nicholson on that side - and decided to add Wahlberg to Sheen on the Police side to balance things out a bit. It doesn't work. Anthony Wong's strong display on IA confirms this: properly acted out, his character is the mirror image and equal of Eric Tsang's. Adding a Wahlberg cannot compensate for the dominating presence of Nicholson on the gangster side and imbalances the movie a little. Having Wahlberg delivering the final murderous twist at the end also feels excessively contrived and introduces last-minute questions of logicality that spoil the ending.

5. Monahan's script tries to be clever by providing extra detail on the main 'crime' perpetrated by Nicholson's gang: the smuggling of some fancy military micro-chips. But this is clumsily done and again serves to distract more than add to the story.

6. In both movies, one of the gangsters finds out about Leung/DiCaprio's real identity just before dying. IA does a far better job of explaining why he didn't give up this secret. In TD, it seems so illogical why this hood didn't expose DiCaprio earlier.

7. In IA, the Andy Lau character is shown to be more of a master of his own destiny. He is cool and calculating, and he is the one who consciously makes the decision that he no longer wants to be a gangster - and then plots to make the switch sacrificing friends, mentors and collegaues ruthlessly in order to do so. In the end, he is prevented from completing his switch back to the side of Light by the second mole planted by the gangsters into the Police unit. He is therefore fated to live on in this purgatory existence - as opposed to Leung who dies but finally is allowed back his true identity and honor after death. Whose fate is worse? In TD, Damon's role is made much more simple-minded. His character is reactive, not proactive - having his hand forced by circumstances more. His desire to switch from Dark to Light is less obvious, even when he delivers the 'clean slate' monologue to his girlfriend. It seems that in TD, Damon is forced to suurender the main Gangster role opposite Leung's main Cop role to Nicholson. Instead of Lau vs Leung, we get Nicholson vs DiCaprio with Damon being nudged aside to a more subservient role.

8. Much is being said about the excellent acting throughout TD. This is undeniable. Besides ol' Jack, DiCaprio really gives one of the best acting performances of the year. He is truly wonderful to watch and convinces us with his torment and suffering. But as good as he is, one could argue that Tony Leung was marginally better. What DiCaprio delivered with his face, Leung delivered with his eyes alone. Tony Leung is widely considered to be one of the best actors of all time from Asia. Sadly, Hollywood seems uninterested in oriental actors who are not sexy nymphs (like Ziyi Zhang), kung fu superstars (like Jackie & Jet), or wizards at posing with guns (like Chow Yun Fat). Those who are even vaguely familiar with Asian movies will know that the ensemble of Lau/Leung/Tsang/Wong is easily the Hong Kong equivalent in terms of star power and acting ability to Hollywood's Damon/DiCaprio/Nicholson/Sheen. All four Hong Kong leads were Best Actor award winners at least once in Asian film circles. The only area where the acting in TD pulls away from IA is probably in the minor roles. Alec Baldwin gives a wonderfully steely, hard-edged core beneath the misleading fat buffoon-like exterior - far superior to the purely comic Hong Kong equivalent. As said above, both female leads in IA were annoyingly redundant (and accordingly poorly acted by trendy pop songstresses rather than proper actresses) but the psychiatrist in TD is sympathetically rendered as a flesh-and-blood person.

So the conclusion?

In the end, I still would prefer IA over TD. The story is much better told with a beautifully crafted balance of characters and wits on both sides. The emotions and conflicts of the two key protagonists are better portrayed and much more convincing. The story (surely a modern classic) is allowed to drive a powerful movie in IA, rather than serve as a Marty Scorsese bloodfest or a Jack Nicholson star vehicle.

But does that mean TD is not worth buying/watching? Far from it!! TD falls marginally flat only when compared to its stellar parent from Hong Kong. In its own right, it is a wonderfully acted and directed movie, with great chracter developments - especially in the early part of the film. For those who have not watched IA (or can't be bothered to read subtitles), TD easily represents one of the best movies of 2006 and one of the best ever crime movies from Hollywood. It is arguably even better than Goodfellas in terms of character development and entertainment value. Even for fans of IA, the differences between IA and TD are sufficently interesing enough for one to momentarily overlook the obvious plagiaristic elements and enjoy the experience. Watching TD for the 1st two times is probably more entertaining than re-watching IA for the umpteenth time for most people.

I would not be surprised to see The Departed win Best Film Oscar this year. Maybe Scorsese will finally win his Best Director Oscar. But it would be a shame that while he never won for his many original classics, he may now win for a blatant copy of a foreign movie - with even most of the clever directorial flourishes also reproduced exactly verbatim from Internal Affairs. If Scorsese did win Best Director, he owes the original directors of Internal Affairs a share of the statue.