I'm probably one out of only a handful of people that thinks Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome is just as good as The Road Warrior, and for different reasons, too.  The Road Warrior was a spectacle of frenetically paced  action sequences and it would feel like a complete retread if Beyond  Thunderdome tried to do the same thing again.  Instead, they added new  elements, and the result is a very entertaining and imaginitive  action/adventure.
Max (Mel Gibson) has just been robbed of all his  belongings in the middle of nowhere in Australia.  He searches for the  thief and this leads to Bartertown, a unique society built upon methane  energy dependent on pig manure, no less.  
Max's search leads him to  Aunty Entity (Tina Turner), Bartertown's lawmaker, who strikes a deal with  him.  All Max has to do is kill a certain somebody in Thunderdome arena and  he'll get provisions in return.  Not everything goes according to plan and  Max is banished to the desert where he is rescued by a small group of lost  children.
For those expecting the action of The Road Warrior you might be  disappointed.  While there is a good bit of action in Beyond Thunderdome,  it's not as much as its predecessor and doesn't have as much energy.  However, Beyond Thunderdome should be noted for having what is perhaps one  of the best action sequences in American film history with the gladiator  fight in Thunderdome arena between Max and the gigantic Blaster.  The  sequence is undeniably inventive and clever; it involves the two men tied  to bungee cords that allow them to spring and leap throughout the arena and  grab any weapons placed all around such as a mace, chainsaw, spear,  etc.
What makes the film so good, though, are its successful attempts at  creating complex societies.  Bartertown is a sight to behold and is made  all the more interesting by the rituals the "citizens" perform  and the laws they obey.
As for the performances, Mel Gibson excels and  gives a fine performance as usual.  Tina Turner is a real surprise as the  villainess; she certainly knows how to act and delivers a fairly good  performance.  Most of the supporting cast do a decent job with the material  they're given.  Angry Anderson, in particular, is quite humorous as the  henchmen who rarely talks and mostly grunts, screams, and yells in  exaggerated tones.
After Brian May's exciting score in The Road Warrior,  Maurice Jarre takes over the job and composes a score that is quite poetic  and, at times, lush and beautiful.
As with all the final scenes in the  Mad Max films, this one ends perfectly.  This time, we get the feeling that  humanity has hope so long as men like Max are around.