Curtis Hanson's L.A.Confidential is a movie that will satisfy a broad set of criteria. It will stand the test of time unlike a lot of movies made of late including movies like "Million Dollar Baby". It is unfortunate that it came out the same year as the Titanic, frankly I do not see the fascination that the audience have for that movie. I for one did not see anything special about that movie. But I digress.

L.A.Confidential is one of the most creative movies made in the recent times based on the book of James Ellroy. It has an outstanding cast with each one at the right place. It has Russell Crowe at his best as the tough cop Bud White who will do anything against offenders of women. It has Guy Pearce as Lt. Ed Exley who finds the methods used in the L.A cops outdated and wishing to change it and becoming a political animal. He is slightly outcast but still does an impressive job. It has Keving Spacey in one of his special roles as the cool cop, Sgt. Jack Vincenness in Badge of honor. Between them they are trying to clean up the filth of the crime in LA.

Support cast in the form of Danny Devito and James Cromwell are ably played. This is well done especially in the form of the magazine created by the former, "Hush Hush". Kim Basinger is outstanding as the Veronica Lake lookalike. The movie has a lot of unusual humor that had me in stitches.

The one special place was when Pierce and Spacey go to the famous LA bar, Formosa, to bust Johnny Stomponato when he is with Lana Turner and Pierce thinks that she is not Lana Turner and and a lookalike. The interaction there is outstanding with Pierce getting a martini thrown on his face. Another special place is when Crowe and Pierce confront the DA and ask him for help and the way they force him. Though this was violent, it was so outrageous you have to laugh.

The movie can be very violent, but I like it for the plot, the comedy, the action, the direction, the acting, the screenplay, and the music by Jerry Goldsmith which was haunting and the way the movie ends. This movie is a must have. Though it won only two awards, I rate it higher than most movies that I have seen in the recent times. I am glad that I have this movie, I have seen it multiple times and I can always go back and see this movie for its various pieces. It is my prediction that this movie will stand the test of time. The transfer is very good and it is a must own for anyone interested in this line of movies.