What makes a good anime? For me, it's plot, characters, dialog, art, music, and the ending. Add a dash of humor for perfection.

First, a basic understanding of the show: Red Garden is a horror, supernatural, high-school drama, friendship, and fighting anime. It is not recommended for younger children, but the imagery is not terribly disturbing. There is mild language in the Japanese (I don't know about the English), and the subtitles displayed strong language once.

The Plot:
Four girls at a fancy private high school in New York City start the morning one day without any recollection of what happened the night before.
Kate is the quiet, rich girl who likes everyone to get along. Rachel is the very social fashionable party girl with a boyfriend. Rose is the cute, helpless, family girl who takes care of her younger siblings. Claire is the girl from a rich family that she shuns, living from paycheck to paycheck. Their only connection is that they were all friends with Lise, whose body was found in a string of apparent suicides in the city.
Things become only a little clearer when the 4 of them are gathered and told that they all died the night before, and that in order to hold on to their borrowed lives they must fight dog-man monsters at night. As you may imagine, none of them are particularly cut out for this, and the second episode gives you a very dramatized very realistic fight scene that involves a lot of sobbing and screaming.

However, the show is not all about fighting monsters at night. Little by little the girls come to understand why they are fighting, and try hard to deal with the late nights, terrifying experiences, and the fact that they are dead.

The Characters:
The characters are excellently done, very realistic. Their development and relationships with others and each other grow and change over the series. Even though they are thrown together they don't become instant best-buddies, as with most anime, but actually have to work at their relationships.
Kate and Claire seem to take the change best, and make efforts to learn how to fight. Rose is wimpy, scared, and tries not to acknowledge her new night-life. Rachel takes it the hardest and goes through several episodes, argues with her friends, and seems to completely ruin her social life. Each girl has several layers that make them likable characters even when they are irritating.

The supporting characters are not to be dismissed. Among the apparent villains there are a few I had a hard time disliking. Although at a couple points good & evil seem well-defined, it keeps turning around, and in the end you wonder who really wins.

The Dialog:
Red Garden has possibly the best cast and performance of actors I've seen thus far in anime (for the Japanese). Part of it is because the actresses chosen for the 4 girls did a great job, part of it is in how they did the recording. I've heard that a) they first recorded the voices then drew the art around it, and b) they recorded the 4 girls together rather than one at a time. This made the dialog, expression, flow of spoken words, and especially arguments incredibly realistic. In anime, characters hardly ever speak over each other. In Red Garden, when they argue, they really argue.
The lines were well thought-out; there were none of those cheesy/over-dramatized lines that make you want to pull out your hair, few to none of those conversations designed strictly to inform the viewer.

The Art:
The art for the whole series is excellent, beautiful but not the flowery shojo. I liked the fashion; the girls change their outfits quite often, each with their individual style.

The Music:
I really liked the beginning credits. The visuals are creative and flashy, the music kind of jazzy. The first ending credits were a bit odd, the second has good music and a creative background. Different from typical credits.
The soundtrack is well done. Funnily enough, the girls sing. Two or three times they fall into a depressed, teary song phase -- not with their trained voices, either, but what you might expect distressed teens to actually sound like without warming up their voices. (Although dramatic scenes, I had to laugh...)

The Ending:
As you can probably tell I like just about everything about this anime -- the one thing that gets me is the ending. Admittedly, I can't think of a better way to end it, but it seems like there is something missing. I know, life doesn't always get wrapped up nice with a ribbon on top, and it's hard to end a story, but you may not be fully satisfied. I'm not sure if the OVA (one 45-min episode) adds or takes from the series ending, but it is different from the main show and worth watching.

The Result:
All in all, Red Garden isn't perfect, but it's worth more than a single viewing. It's sad but cute, there's a cool plot but I feel it wasn't explained fully, you can take it seriously (like me) or you may enjoy making fun of the show and the characters and the singing. (You can make fun of the singing anyway :) I can't say if Red Garden would be appealing to a male audience, it depends if you can empathize with teenage girls (or enjoy making fun of them).

I've seen the whole series twice, and intend to watch it again. I recommend you give it a shot.