I am amazed that Spartan is seemingly so well received: "Two thumbs up" from Ebert &amp; friend, and some generally positive reviews from other Amazonians. I must respectfully disagree with any positive opinions, and having just finished watching the movie with the agony fresh in my mind, I shall offer my somewhat less complementary assessment.
Far from being a sharp-edged thriller, Spartan is rather an unimaginative amalgam of stereotypical characters and a rambling disjointed plot.  Approaching such a hackneyed thriller-type topic as "important-person's daughter kidnapped with deus ex machina stuff going on" is pretty dangerous territory in and of itself, but assembling it in an incoherent mix of cliche'd intrigue concepts and cardboard characterizations is a recipe for disaster, and so it goes...
In Mamet's world of espionage and intrigue, newly trained special ops agents, old hands, and wannabes alike all wander freely in and out of sensitive missions at their pleasure, transport themselves around the world at a whim even while on leave, and get unceremoniusly blown away - whether or not it advances the plot.
Ah, but you say "this is a David Mamet film, full of all sorts of clever and revealing twists!" However, typically, plot twists (in good movies) excite your mind as you reassess the significance of all the events up until that point; unfortunately, while viewing Spartan, your mind is dulled and offended as the movie reaches numerous full stops and you are left wondering if you care when it starts up again.  The screen fades to black many times in what would normally be perfecty acceptable endings to other unsatisfactory (and mercifully shorter) movies as Spartan progresses towards its own unsatisfactory ending.  Far from being revealing, the twists are merely gratuitous and maddening as you realize that the film is going to continue.
There are simply so many things to take umbrage to about Spartan that it is difficult to put them all down.  The production values are A-team-esque, Mamets lauded dialoge makes Judge Dredd look like Alexander Hamilton, and you'll be left playing with the contrast on your television as you wonder if there are people acting out scenes somewhere within all those dramatic shadows.