Now I must confess, I've never read War and Peace (I'm sure the book is better) so I am judging this 1956 Paramount production purely on its own merits. According to my research, King Vidor (director) hired seven writers for the screenplay and edited parts of it himself. The prose is often beautifully written (especially in the soliloquys) although I did feel that the Sonya/Nicholas/Mary love triangle could have been better developed and a clearer explanation could have been made concerning the death of Helene. The film starts off a little slow and confusing (due to the swarming amount of characters to be introduced) but eventually pulls all it's tension to a searing close. Costumes and sets are simple and fine and do not detract from the substance of the story. Jack Cardiff's cienematography is adequate but not up to his oscar winning Black Narcissus. Nino Rota's music is a magnificent blend of classical pieces and Russian folktunes.

Audrey Hepburn was a very versatile actress best known for her romantic comedies. (Roman Holiday, Breakfast at Tiffany's, How to Steal a Million, etc.) Here, she gives a tremendous acting piece as the young aristocratic lady Natasha, who slowly grows from a silly, lovestruck, coquettish girl to a mature and sensible woman. Henry Fonda has the most reedy, nasally American accent but once I got past that, I found myself appreciating him. His subtle cerebral style is perfectly suited to the philosophic, seeker-after-truth, Pierre. In the beginning, he enjoys the company of a group of violent, brutal libertines headed by Captain Fyodor Dolokov and Colonel Anatole Kuragin but when Dolokov flares up in his true colors by having an adulterous affair with Pierre's wife Helene, Pierre abandons the philosophy of Hedonism and seeks to redeem himself by leading a more virtuous life and protecting the weaker ones. (such as when he prevents Natasha from eloping with Colonel Kuragin.)

Mel Ferrer (Audrey Hepburn's real-life husband) plays Natasha's second love interest Prince Andre. We don't see a lot of him which is probably for the best since his abilities as an actor seem limited to mouth open, mouth shut. But the rest of the cast is genuinely inspired. Vittorio Gassman is handsome, charismatic and manipulative as the charming womanizer Colonel Anatole Kuragin who almost seduces Natasha. Anita Ekberg also turns in a wonderfully wicked performance as Helen, the shallow immoral wife of Pierre. May Britt is sweet and sensitive as Natasha's best friend Sonya but displays plenty of depth and maturity when needed. John Mills is excellent as the Christian peasant Platon and Herbert Lom as Napoleon displays a sharp and sly wit tough to look away from.

Four Stars