Okay, first the special effects. They're outstanding. From the very first eruption, through dams breaking, floods destroying bridges, and a stupdendous pyroclastic flow, it's some of the best effects I've ever seen in a disaster movie.

Unfortunately, there's a story that comes with it; even more unfortunately, some lamebrain decided to included DIALOGUE. God help us.

Whoever wrote the screenplay must have a pretty low opinion of the intelligence of the human species -- and especially of women. First, there's Marion, Brosnan's first love. Marion loves volcanoes, and is so much of an expert that when she sees that the volcano she's sitting on is about to blow, she wants to stay ("we can't leave now; look at these readings!") Uh , Marion, have you considered that the readings are saying that it's time to, oh, I don't know... RUN??!! No matter, she doesn't last long.

Then there's Grandma. Boy, if there was ever a senior who deserved to be put away, it's this nut. Don't ever trust someone in their seventies who says "hot nookie" in front of the grandkids. She also refuses to come off of her volcano when it's ready to explode. Maybe it's something in the water.

My favorite line, however, comes from our heroine. She's sitting out on her front porch one warm summer evening, her soon-to-be beau Brosnan by her side, her two sweet children asleep in her beds. Brosnan has told her the explosion could come any time now.She stares up at the volcano and murmurs "I hope you're wrong about our volcano, Harry -- but if you're right, I'm glad you're here." Awwww. That's nice. Of course, any decent mother would have gotten her kids on the first bus out of town... something she apparently never thought of. She also thanked Brosnan for saving her son's life by making him some eggplant parmegiana. It must be one hell of an eggplant parmegiana.

Throw in the greedy businessman, the chicken boss, a helicopter pilot who apparently was out the day they taught you not to fly in ash, and you have the townspeople of Dante's Peak. Happily, you get to see a fantastic volcanic explosion AND the reassurance that these nitwits won't pass on their dna. That alone is worth three stars.