.....for those who know 'the hits' nothing but the hits'.....and who dont like it any other way but, here it is, for the most part, from start to finish, as it was in that Hot July Summer Moment......

Though ,Live Aid's main organizer and head honcho Robert Frederick Zenon Geldof aka Bob Geldof claimed (according to his book) that he wouldnt have had 80 percent of those acts on the bill at all!  If Bob Marley were still alive (at the time), Geldof would have begged him (Marley) on his knees  to perform.  Aswad, another possible pick, was hardly known outside of the university walls. Most would turned on to something else on the telly and would have poured very little monies into the Live Aid fortious pot!

So with that in mind, and keeping with the 'current trends' of the mid 80's timeline, this is what one is treated to (amorously).

For what it's worth....a five-starrer.....for me, no more than a 2.  For those music lovers of Farrokh Bulsara/Helen Folasade Adu.... and not to forget those ardent fanatics of Johnny Michael/Anthony/Terrance/and William of Sab ....and hey Rogey and Petey....ah the Tim Ripper Owens crowd.....oops I mean Bobby H/KK DEE's leather lovers....others have gone and done t-h-e-i-r appropriated props and accolades......

With that outta da way.....Let's get to the good stuff....not much....mostly on the first disc and mainly the artists who started off the days proceedings......
Status Quo..... the 12 bar 'boogie brothers' Francis Rossi and Rick Parfitt (whose last names also sounded like a nice dessert wine)cranked out a nice but short 2 song set (there is a 3rd toon that got cut to techincal difficulties), Johnny FOGerty's classic 'Rockin All Over The World' and a Quo classic in its own right, 'Caroline.' For those 'few' who like their blues served up in 'the usual' , dont know what u is expecting....but this is it....and its mighty good...

Style Council......John 'Paul' Weller and Mick Talbot.....the 80's aggregation that took over where The Jam DIDNOT..... Much Much more funkier than aformentioned group's earliest records etched to wax.....but nevertheless......a nice little romp thru a psuedo-Stax/Motown world of r&b musical delight to the bouncing beat of 'Internationalists' and 'The Walls Come Tumblin Down'.....

# 3 'De Man of the Day' -Bob G and his famously 're-nowned' Boomtown Rats, who promised to never love Eva Braun, deliciously serve up two 'Hot Ratz' fav-ravs.....'I Dont Like Mondays' and the almost hit that never was....'Draggin Me Down'  (the latter was Little Fifi Geldof's toon she loved the most by her daddy!) Now only if America knew what this was all about.........

Fast forwarding a tad-bit to Midge Ure/Ultravox's two-fer tasty goodies, 'Dancing With Tears In My Eyes' and 'Vienna' are done to perfection with the group's frontman  evoking the passion plus of the studio-recorded treasures. Midge, who NEVER had an interest in Eva Braun , is, btw, the co-written of the all-star studded 'Band-Aid' , world-wide hit, 'Do They Know Its Christmas' whose monies were ardously donated to the Africa relief program(s).

REALLY skipping ahead to his girl Friday's best 'disposable matinee idol' (more so than Robert Bobby Mitt Romney) is the 'fornlorn' leader of the 70's leading 'art-rock' act, 'Roxy Music', the flushed-out of the flesh man hisself, Bryan Ferry..... who delivers a bouncy, bossa-nova-ish  Ferry forte, of his own 'Slave to Love' and the J.W.O. Lennon's poignant ballad, 'Jealous Guy.  Ah nice nice very nice....

Up next on the 'hit list' is the Scottish Band, 'Simple Minds', whose perennial leader/vocalist Jim Kerr and partner in crime, guitarist/co-writer Charles Burchill,  who give their best to the group's two most overplayed toons of the time, 'Ghost Dancing' and 'Dont You Forget About Me' But hey...a good band IS A good band regardless, which for the most, set the pace, for their 'continued' haul in the biz right to this day!

Finally, the formerly known David Jones (not to b confused with the one time teen heart-throb of 60's manufactured tv group The Monkees) kicks things immediatley into full throttle with a 70's go round of 'TVC15' , 'Rebel' 'Modern Love' and the Brian Eno collaborated experminetal drone, 'Heroes" (Just For One Day).  Bowie's Band is quite tight, not to mention!

And oh yeah...the bonus footage of the phenomenal/emotional Nick-O-Val/Teddy 'Bear' Pendergrass performance of 'Reach Out...' is without q , the icing on the cake for this all day  extravogonzo of wonderous delight......

Cheers and injoy (who u havent already........)