Think 'Jacob's Ladder' with the subtext of Kubrick. No wait -- don't.

What's amazing about 'Child's Play 2' is that it somehow manages to be more entertaining than its predecessor. And that's a feat because the first film was so very solid, especially considering it was working with about the most ridiculous premise ever imagined; that they pulled it off with such style and effectiveness is still impressive viewing it fifteen years after its release. While this sequel isn't as good a film as the first, it's more colorful and exciting, well paced and a downright good time.

Of course, Brad Dourif is the commanding force behind the movie, as his vocal performance of Chucky is so so impassioned; he eats up near every moment. What's more is that while the film is still a scary horror outing (at least to a younger audience, as I was in the early 90's -- all three films scared me s%*@)less), it contains a lot more humor than the first. Chucky's got a generous amount of comical dialogue and his delivery is perfect. One of the more direct attempts involves Chucky beating the hell out of 'Tommy' (a regular doll that annoys Chucky with his grating, automated sayings), and I find that particular scene pretty hysterical.

One motif that is reoccurring and, again, a point of comedy, is most of the victims tendency to throw Chucky around like a rag doll before they become aware he's actually alive. The way those scenes are executed make for successful slapstick humor, and have me laughing indeed. Of course, this invariably leads to a temporary revenge response for treating him like dung, a generic gimmick that ends up still working.

The largest problem though, by far, is the logical inconsistencies, which spring up in hordes, time after time. Things just don't make sense; characters act senseless and stupid. Yet, while being contrived and a bit frustrating, I find myself not really caring, because the film is absurd anyway -- it is easily forgiven in this respect. Another bogus aspect is that this time around Chucky seems to possess a superhuman amount of strength and weight -- there are numerous examples, one being a bit where Kyle (the beautiful Christine Elise) steps on the breaks and Chucky flies through the windshield as if he was 150 pounds. Again, though, most of it's absurd, so it's not really a burden.

The film is well shot, too, the cinematography unexpectedly good at times. And the acting, surprisingly, is really solid too, especially considering this is "Child's Play 2", the god forsaken sequel to a killer doll flick (!!!). Lastly, it's easily the most colorful of the original trilogy, and this makes it more endearing than the others (and not as dark, for sure); along these lines, it also makes for a result that warrants repeated viewings without succumbing to boredom. The doll effects are also admirable, probably even better than the original.

The last twenty minutes of the movie are the wackiest, taking place in the doll factory. Chucky seemingly dies about four times. THE most glaring goof in the movie comes when Chucky becomes completely mutilated by some sort of steam machine, and when we see him, he is nothing but a mishmash of  doll skin; he is completely unrecognizable. Two shots later -- somehow -- his upper body and face is completely back to normal; I'm not sure how they could have overlooked this little bit. But who cares.

4 stars might seem crazy (I consider myself pretty critical of movies, mostly), but I like the movie too damn much.