If you are easily offended and don't like the F-word, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. If you like subversive black humor and witty Irish banter, this is a great movie. I watched this twice in a week just because I knew I missed a lot on the first viewing. The brogue is thick and the jabs are subtle but are worth watching again just to catch them all.  One might even want to watch it with subtitles so-as not to miss anything.  Most of the other reviewers have done a good job of laying out the plot, which is pretty straightforward.  The fun is watching the crew bring it to life, especially Brendan Gleeson, whom I did not recognise as Mad-Eye Moody from Harry Potter.  This movie owes much to 60's spaghetti westerns, especially the music, but has been wonderfully updated to the 21st century.  The ending is an old fashioned gunfight, with a realistic limit of ammunition, highly dependent on the sheer grit of the opposing gunmen.  Mark Strong plays an extremely cynical gangster who lives for the mano-a-mano shoot out: "This is better than Christmas." moments before he dies.  The only thing I think might make this a better movie would have been to make the F.B.I. agent a cynical Irish-American cop or someone who grew up in Detroit, Gary or South Central.  I've met cops who know the hood, and it wouldn't take much of a stretch for them to be little different than Brendan Gleeson's character.  Doing this might remove the oppourtunity to showcase some of Sgt. Boyle's crass, offensive, and racist humor, but might have created an oppourtunity to move beyond the straightlaced, arrogant, by-the-book, not-too-bright F.B.I. stereotype and delve in to differences between the european Irish and and the American world-view, not just their stereotypes of us.  We Americans really aren't known for following the rules or holding to the traditions of our forefathers. However, being Irish American, having read too much, and having spent time in the U.K. I thouroughly enjoyed this modern european homage to the american western film.