Before I saw The Girl Next Door, I expected it to be a typical raunchy teen sex movie. After watching it, it has become one of my favorite movies, if not my favorite. It is a love story and a comedy rolled into one.

Emile Hirsch plays Matthew Kidman, a high school senior who is an excellent student and all-around nice kid, but he's kind of nerdy and hasn't really done anything memorable all throughout high school. This changes when he meets his new next-door neighbor Danielle, played by Elisha Cuthbert. Danielle is gorgeous and Matthew instantly falls for her. Soon after spotting her, he sees her undressing through his window and can't help but watch. Danielle catches him watching her and becomes angry at first, but soon it seems as though she has fallen for him too.

Danielle is a former porn star, which Matthew does not find out until his friend Eli (played by Chris Marquette) shows him a video with her in it. To further complicate things, Danielle's former producer/ex-boyfriend Kelly (played by Timothy Olyphant) shows up one day and wants Danielle to return to the adult film business. Kelly and Matthew get along well at first, but this changes when Matthew tries to get Danielle to leave the porn industry, which Kelly does not like one bit.

Eli and Kelly are two characters that really steal the show in this movie. Eli is Matthew's nerdy high school friend who is horny all the time and obsessed with sex and hot women. He had some of the funniest lines in the whole movie. Kelly (the porn director who used to work with Danielle and also used to date her) is the cool, wise-ass guy who cracked me up in just about every scene he was in. I couldn't decide whether to love him or hate him-he is a cool, funny guy when him and Matthew are friends, but when Matthew makes him angry, he becomes psycho and violent.

I do not want to give too much away in this movie, but Danielle gets Matthew to do things that he never imagined he would do. It really is a case of opposites attracting: Matthew falls for Danielle's wild adventurous side, and Danielle falls for Matthew's innocence and purity. In several scenes, you can tell deep down that Danielle really is a good person, she doesn't really want to be in the porn business, and she really cares about Matthew. Matthew feels the same way about Danielle and puts himself in many risky situations for her. This movie was so touching that I cried in a couple parts, and I don't cry easily. Yet there were also parts so funny I couldn't stop laughing (mainly the scenes with Eli and Kelly.) Definitely worth watching and way under-rated.