Orgazmo was a rough little gem that came out awhile back.  Since it concerns the porn industry, and it was written and directed by the one of the men responsible for South Park, it got slapped with an NC-17 rating.  If you don't believe that there is bias in the movie ratings, check this movie out.

It's the story of a young Mormon played by writer-director Trey Parker, who during one of the stops on his route to enlist more Mormons, catches the eye of a pornographic movie director.  Enthralled by Elder Young's (Parker, whose character name is one of the many ironic hints this movie provides) acting abilities, hires him to play the lead in his new adult superhero video, Orgazmo.

Obviously, Elder Young wants no part of this, but when he gets offered the money, which he needs to afford his wedding, and is given the stipulation that he will not be performing any of the sexual acts himself (they'll use a different actor for the intimate moments), he reluctantly agrees.

What unfolds is a series of events that spoofs all movie devices, demonizing the porn industry for causing great pain within the community.  Elder Young, along with his on-screen sidekick, Choder Boy (Dian Bachar -- a hilarious and underused character actor), become in real life the superheroes they play in the movies.  Armed with their martial arts (which all Mormons and half-pint science whizes seem to know) and Elder Young's Notorious Orgazmo Ray, the two "superheroes" -- Orgazmo and Choder Boy -- set out to destroy the porn studio that they are employed by.

Here's the kicker, though.  You'd think that this movie would be really, really dirty.  And it is, for its part.  There are f-bombs in it, but not nearly as many as in South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut (which had an R rating), no actual simulated sex (though, for its part, had a few simulated orgasims by men hit by the Orgazmo Ray), and the only nudity is men's butts, seen quickly as an in-joke, where a naked man always stands in front of the camera, blocking the porn sex.  There's also a tiny bit of goofy, non-believable violence, but nothing worse than an average episode of Might Morphin Power Rangers or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

You'll have to watch the movie to understand why it never deserved an NC-17 rating.  And, once you know that, you'll probably be upset by the fact that you never got the chance to see this movie outside of video or late night Cinemax airings.  It's not the greatest movie ever made, nor is it even Trey Parker's best movie, but it is definetly worth the watch, if, for nothing else, to see real life porn star Ron Jeremy play one of the bad guys who gets his head crushed in one of the movie's very badly choreographed fight sequences.