South Park is incredibly underrated. People see it only for the swearing and the political incorrectness. They pay no attention to the real comedy. This movie was a true work of art. I was stunned when I first saw this movie. I expected it to be funny, but I didn't know I'd be laughing my ass off and sitting at the edge of my seat for 81 whole minutes! After seeing this film, I became a devoted fan of the South Park series.

But enough about how I felt about the film; every opinion needs backing! (And I find that a lot of reviews here lack that sort of thing.) When this film started, I was greeted with a musical number. It was entertaining at best; it kept my attention. Then the boys entered the theatre. I felt like such an idiot for laughing at all the fart jokes of Terrance and Phillip, but I never was the type who pretended to have such a superior and highly intellectual sense of humor that I couldn't enjoy senseless comedy. As the film continued, even when I didn't laugh at the jokes, I still found myself smiling at the empty spots; the movie had drawn me in. But then things got more interesting--the kids got busted for swearing, Kenny set himself on fire, the mothers started a protest against Canada, and eventually the United States was thrown into war with its neighbor to the north. From there, the movie got even more hilarious and crude. Not only that, but it had something special to it--a special gleem that made this film a special place in my heart. It has its touching moments, its exciting moments, its musical moments, and of course, its moments of senseless comedy. All-in-all, it was pure genius. It had the magical feel of a Disney movie, but was much less child friendly. To wrap it all up, it had a moral to it (like just about any episode of the show), something a lot of critics and censor freaks don't even seem to notice. The moral made sense and made you feel for the characters. This kind of depth and development in the characters surprised me--I never expected to feel this way about South Park.

I don't want to ramble on and spoil the movie for anyone who hasn't seen it, so in conclusion, this film was brilliant. It was honestly one of the best films I've ever seen. Several of the best recent films have had moments that simply made me think twice about praising them. This film, on the other hand, gets 5 stars, pure and simple. I don't even have to think twice about it; there was never a dull moment. It wasn't just a great comedy--it was a great movie altogether. It had all the elements that make a movie great. I'm rambling again... I don't have much more to say except buy this movie! If you find yourself disappointed, do yourself a favor and lose the holier-than-thou attitude and get a sense of humor!