Have been learning about transitioning books to screen, so read the book, A Beautiful Mind, first, then read the screen play.  I had not seen the film.  Reading the screen play immediately set me off in sudden
outbursts of laughter,  simply at the surprises that continually would appear in the script which had nothing to do with the book.  In fact, there is very little of the book in the screen play.  By the end I discovered that the screen play is described as a story inspired by the life of John Nash and the book, A Beautiful Mind.

Taken alone, the script is a good study in turning the story into an adventure, complete with gun battles and car chase; in fact, the idea of mental illness and an ill math genius who wins a nobel prize, is
the jumping off point for this somewhat James Bond romp.  But to be fair, it is developed, independent from the book or the mental disease, into an entertaining and moving story.

If you read the script, I suggest that you also buy the Two-Disc Awards Edition DVD which goes into great depth as to the scripting, the casting, the filming, effects creation, and much more. An enormous amount of care was taken in turning the actual story into an  "it couldda happened"  film.. inspired by the life of John Nash, but almost entirely fictional.  It is a well scripted, wittilly dialogued, and interesting fantasia based upon a situation which had similar circumstances.  The script leaves the John Nash character on a "reality diet" where he still is haunted by the presence of his other characters his mind has created, but which he now has learned to ignore.  In fact, the real John Nash has almost no memory of his fantasies and has no remaining "hauntings" of them now. But hey, this is Hollywood, and they always have trouble discerning reality from fantasy.

Bottom line: it is well written, entertaining, and interesting in that we see an example of how a mostly internalized book can inspire an actualized film, suggested by the circumstances the book contains, and then elaborately produced.