I'm sure glad I rented Robots. I almost didn't after reading some reviews here that downgraded it and rated it lower than Ice Age, which I didn't find so great and which my 5 year old didn't like much at all. Aside from the fact that it's obviously got parts that are too dark and scary to make it apt for young children, I'm not really sure what those people found so fantastic about Ice Age. Other than the running slapstick gag of the squirrel chasing the acorn, the story itself is a somewhat hackneyed "good calms the heart of a savage beast" fantasy, scripted as a typical buddy-film with lots of adult-level comic banter between the motormouth wise-guy character and the serious, close-mouthed grump. From that standpoint, it's just a poor take-off on Donkey and Shrek.

But where Ice Age really fell down for me was in its animation. It hardly rises to the level of standouts like "A Bugs Life" or "Toy Story Two", let alone "The Lion King" from which it seems to have borrowed its idea of evil felines. In fact, the artistic rendering of the menacing sabertooth cats is quite static, boxy, unrealistic and ugly, with none of the visual subtleties of a character like Scar in the original Lion King. Then too, the truth is there's not much you can do visually with an endless landscape of snow, ice and fog and a white on white color scheme. Beyond that, the plot basically plods (literally, since the mammoth walks at that pace) through the snow to save the baby, who somehow survives sub-freezing temps totally unclothed and without food or water (right!), until the climactic fight which, as in the Lion King, my son found dark, scary and unpleasant, with not enough fun parts to offset it.

In contrast there's Robots, which thankfully I rented after all, and which the whole family found to be an exciting, funny, visually amazing, rip-roaring thrill-a-minute up-beat adventure story. It's got incredible animation of a Rube-Goldbergesque world where every other second there are a dozen visually arresting images and actions. The characters are great--funny, cute, engaging, complex (as opposed to the frozen cardboard ones of Ice Age), the story engaging, and the script is chockfull of musical and cinematic quotes and references. The Gene Kelly "singing in the Rain" fountain scene is just one of many such gags, and on top of that there's all the funny dialogue, which even when it's aimed at adults as in the case of Robin Williams' character, a 5 year old can have fun with as mere words without having to understand the meaning. For example, my 5 year old immediately parroted back Robin's bit about having to run in these "cha-cha heels". He found all this type of dialog funny on a basic verbal level, which in fact is what makes verbal comedy funny for kids as well as adults even though they have different levels of understanding of the underlying meaning.

All in all I highly recommend Robots as a movie which all the family will want to see again and again, because that is the only way one is going to catch all the visual and verbal gems in this whiz-bamg rapid-fire film.