I love the House series but it appears that from Frontier on, things went south. Texas Ranch is no exception to that trend. Texas Ranch House starts with great promise but fails to deliver with the original intent of educating the public about life on a 1870's Ranch House.

In the beginning the show starts with a mission statement about the project and goes through the cast of characters in a Bonanza type of opening which was cheesy but OK. The beginning of the series was the most informative as we learn about the roles of the participants and the layout and structure of the ranch.

The cowboys all seem decent enough and they are the only group throughout the whole series of "house" show that I've seen that truly grow together into one cohesive unit. It was great to watch them grow. I think most viewers would find them interesting and the most passionate group of participants in any of these house shows (save the Edwardian and Victorian Farm).

As for the family the Cooke's, they are nice people but I feel that they allowed themselves to believe it was an "us versus them" attitude throughout the show. There was an excess of help - three daughters plus a maid - keep in mind there were only six cowboys. I have had the pleasure though, of speaking with Mrs. Cooke and she is very passionate about genealogy and runs a blog about it. I think she was so into it, more than her husband even that her personality may come off as being too harsh but in reality she was just so into it that she began to take it personally and that is fine. I love seeing people with passion. Also, in their defense, we were not there and PBS edits out a lot of the rivalry, arguments, and moments where they did work well together.

Now, this is where I do have an issue with PBS, they began concentrating more on the drama, like I was watching Bonanza (nothing against Bonanza - I love Westerns!). But if the mission of the project was to take people from this century and send them back to try to turn a profit while educating the public about life on a ranch then I think they missed the point. It just became more of a psychology/sociology experiment on the west: struggles in leadership, how to treat people, and in the end you will find yourself discussing with other viewers about management issues and not about the old west and that is where I think PBS went off track. If we want to watch shows about management we can watch other programs for that.

For me, I like to watch how the West really was, without the camera crews, the scripts and Bonanza theme songs - I want to watch real grit, dirt, and raw footage of what it might have been but I think PBS lost this in the drama. The reality TV setting is a great idea but the series gravitated too much into the saga of Cooke's vs the Cowboys. I would love to see PBS do more of this without the focus being on the drama but more on the ranch and history just BBC did Edwardian Farm and Victorian Farm.