In 1981's Excalibur, Director John Boorman did for the Legends of King Arthur what Mel Gibson did for William Wallace in Braveheart; that is, he created a lush, thoroughly involving period piece with engaging characters, a heap of action and a dash of romance that spares nothing in terms of production.
This is not only the quintessential movie about King Arthur, but the granddaddy of all quality sword and sorcery films. From the music to the scenery to the acting, your suspension of disbelief will be total, your immersion in the tale complete. Drawing as it does on such rich source material, it would have been difficult for Boorman and co-writer Rospo Pallenberg to have made this film poorly. But the duo goes beyond mere adequacy, creating an unforgettable world and populating it with enthralling characters that will stick to your brain like peanut butter to the roof of your mouth. Above and beyond the outstanding hack-and-slash action, it is the drama that unfolds between these characters that makes the film an enduring classic. Virtually every scene -- and indeed almost every spoken line -- in Excalibur is a classic, from a naive young Arthur pulling the sword from the stone and handing it to his older brother saying, "Your sword is stolen, brother. But here is Excalibur..." to Merlin's many stirring soliloquies, to Morgana's deception of Arthur in order to concieve Mordred (similar to the way Arthur was concieved by his father's deception of his mother), to Mordred's icy, final, "Come father, let us embrace at last..." The betrayal by Lancelot, the championing of the queen by duel, the temptation and destruction of the knights as they search for the holy grail, all of these are sure to replay in your head for hours or even days after you have watched the final credits roll. That's why this is a film to purchase, not rent, as you will want to watch it again and again.
As for the DVD itself, the extras are a little thin. There is really only John Boorman's commentary track, which only served to show me how very different movie directors can be from how I stereotypically perceive them. Boorman is soft-spoken and sounds almost disinterested, and talks mostly about the bluebonnets in all the outdoor scenes and how hard it was to keep the crew from trampling them.  But there are some very interesting facts in his commentary. For instance, Helen Mirren and Nicole Williamson despised each other in real life and almost refused to work together. The girl who plays Arthur's mother, Igraine, is actually Boorman's daughter, who also "arm doubles" for the lady of the lake in one scene where nobody else would lie down in the freezing water of the river. And Boorman had to use polo ponies, because they alone are perfectly suited to being ridden in close proximity to each other, while being controlled with one hand by a rider who is swinging something around (in this case a sword) in the other hand.
In summary, this is a DVD well worth owning.