What we have here is a big ol' slice of cheese from the 80's in the form of the Patrick Swayze vehicle "Road House". Back in the late 80's, Patrick Swayze was riding a wave of popularity that even HE didn't maybe expect, thanks to his role as Johnny Castle in "Dirty Dancing". Movies like this weren't meant to be Oscar winners, they were meant for basically what it amounts to, which is a couple hours of brainless fun.

Swayze plays "Dalton" (not sure if that's his first or last name, that's all he goes by), a COOLER, mind you, not just a bouncer, who more or less specializes in cleaning up the worst bars and makes them respectable establishments. Dalton gets paid ungodly sums of money, almost unrealistic amounts as you will find out about, to perform this feat. Dalton is paid a visit by a seedy looking guy named Tilghman, who hires him to help clean up the "Double Deuce", which is nothing more than a massive toilet that serves booze and a whole lotta trouble.

Dalton makes it to the Double Deuce, and starts to "take out the trash". What Dalton was unaware of, which is mysteriously never explained to him by Tilghman prior to his hiring, is that all of the businesses in town, including the Double Deuce, pays extortion money to the town kingpin Brad Wesley. Dalton fires a bartender who was "skimming the till", which apparently is bar slang for pocketing money from the register. This is how the Double Deuce was fleeced. And wouldn't you know it, the bartender is Brad Wesleys nephew!

Now. A normal person would have quit and moved on, but Dalton meets the sexy town doctor, and begins a relationship with her. Dalton eventually learns that she was once romantically involved with none other than Brad Wesley. What a small town!

So, thus begins the jealous battle between her ex-lover Wesley and the new guy threatening his stronghold over the town, Dalton. A great cameo by Sam Elliott as Daltons mentor and best friend Wade Garrett makes for good chemistry and drives what story there is along. The music is great, mainly featuring The Jeff Healey Band.

This is actually a pretty good movie, and entertaining right up until the predictible violent ending. Dalton slowly lets Wesley push his buttons until he blows a gasket and speeds to Wesley's compound to chew bubble gum and kick butt, but runs out of bubble gum on the way.

This isn't by any means a "MUST SEE" movie, but it has it's moments, and for the cheap price, its not a bad movie for your collection. AND...for you ladies, there's a naked butt shot of Swayze. Let me tell you something, if I was a woman and found that sort of thing attractive, well, I guess that would be a good thing. But I'm not, and I don't!