The trailer for KissKissBangBang did not prepare me for the movie I saw. I had to go and see it because Shane Black's previous screenplays (Lethal Weapon, the Last Boyscout, The Long kiss Goodnight) were hardboiled action flicks with a great feel of cool attitude, but they all featured characters that were really touching for the genre. (Remember Bruce Willis saying "f*ck you" to his cheating wife to show her he cares about her at the end of Boyscout? Isn't that a great scene?)

Warner advertised the movie as a kind of comedy. The trailer focused a quidproquo scene that does not exceed 2 minutes of screentime.

THIS MOVIE HAS SPIRIT

Anyway, Black has written his best screenplay ever, with highly colorful characters, offering Downey and Kilmer, 2 beautiful has-been in Hollywood terms, their best roles in 10 years.

Black likes film noir and he knows how the genre works. In the great tradition of The Big Sleep, the plot, though very simple in the end, is narrated in such a way that it looks very complicated. The characters follow wrong trails, and Downey's voiceover is a hilarious hommage to the cynical tough guy attitude that Bogart might have been.

There are different layers in the screenplay and Black seems to be playing with the mechanic of writing. He even reveals some of his trick-of-the-trades through some dialogues, not only about KKBB but he also makes connection to his previous scripts (L.A., buddy movies, Xmas time, scenes of torture followed by a big gunfight,...)

THIS MOVIE HAS HEART

One could compare KKBB to Tarantino's work. You take a genre film, quote the rules, wink at the audience, then break the rules. But there is one thing I did not find in PulpFiction or Reservoir Dogs, it's heart and sympathy for the characters.

KKBB cares about the characters. They're all losers in a way or another, just trying to survive in the city. There are beautiful moments between Downey and Michelle Monaghan, and especially one piece of dialogue you would not expect after the spider-scene (you'll have to see this movie).

Look also for a short but terribly gripping flashback about the childhood of Monaghan's character.

I am thinking also about the killing of an anonymous "pink haired girl": her death is presented in a disturbing manner, compared to the usual action/thriller style.

THIS MOVIE HAS GUTS

It really does! The dialogues are sharp and straight to the stomach style.

Expect a few loud laughs as well. Some scenes got me laughing very lound in the theater whereas I first saw it by myself. And I usually am a vey quiet person when watching a movie.

I showed the movie to 5 persons who virtually had no will to see it based on the trailer and they all loved it. I suspect a huge fan-base will build around this unsung masterpiece.

This came as the greatest surprise of last year and I just could watch it over and over again.