I just got this DVD today and finished the workout a few minutes ago.  I can definitly feel the burn in my abs, and I can tell my arms and legs will be a bit sore tommorrow!  I am a 20 yr old college student, about 30 lbs overweight, not toned at all and pretty much out of shape but not completly (I can jog a 12 min mile and then I have to walk for a few minutes before I can even think of jogging some more).  I found this video to be at a good level for me, and I think if I was less or more in shape it would still be good.  I could do all of the exercises, although I could not get the full range of motion on a few (that was in part because while Denise reccomends 3-8lb weights, I only have 10 lbs).  Denise talks constantly, and I found that motivating, although I would definitly not buy a yoga or other relaxing workout from her! The first 20 minutes uses free weights and the second 20 minutes uses a stability ball and free weights.  The DVD does not pause in between the workout sections, but it is clear that if you only want a short workout, the time when Denise gets her stability ball is the time to stop the DVD. I did the first 20 min, made a 10 min phone call, and did the second 20 min.  I am pretty sure I could have done the tape straight through with only a quick water break in the middle, although I was definitly breathing hard and sweating light-moderate.  (The workout is not exactly cardio, but since I am out of shape, the effort of lifting weights and switching positions brought up my heartrate to where it would be maybe a minute or two into a slow jog)I also really liked that there were many excersizes to work each muscle and very few reps of each, so the muscle was worked for enough time without the movements getting to repetitive.  I also liked how a boring movement such as arm curls with weights was made a little more bearable by rocking back in forth. Overall, I liked this tape and I feel it really worked my muscles, and as I strengthen I can increase the weight and range of motion and still be challanged.