If you throw all the Hot Topic junk that this movie has created aside, and you focus just on the movie, it is truly a masterpiece in everyway. The lovely thing about TNBC is that it is so beautifully weird. And original. It is based on an idea that...I don't think anyone before Burton could've thought up, even if they were geniuses. And that is why Tim Burton is revered by movie buffs the world over. He is truly a genius.

The Nightmare Before Christmas begins with ghoulish music and the dark, almost Hades like settings of Halloween town, one of the many towns that dedicate themselves just to one holiday of the year. And, (obviously) Halloween town is in charge of October 31, Hallow's Eve. Enter Jack the Pumpkin King; a long, lanky skeleton-like individual who walks with the wandering grace of a poet and has the mind of a philospher. Jack is legenday in Halloween town as the ultimate scare-maker. When he scares, he SCARES. And Jack usually loves his job. But lately he's been having qualms...He wonders, what else is there? Que Sally, a rag-doll woman who wants to escape her overly protective, paranoid father/maker Dr. Finklestein  and discover the world as well. Her quiet presence around Halloween town and Jack as he ponders what else is there makes for a great supporting character.

Meanwhile, Jack, one day in utter confusion and in search for himself, wanders out of Halloween town and comes across Christmas town, and it is there that he discovers himself (or so he thinks). As he sings the most memorable song I know (What's This?) in awe of the bright, jolly scenery around him and the happy children and...(or course) the snow, he realizes, why not make...Christmas, instead of Halloween? Aha! Jack has found his muse. Jack, in complete glee at his newfound joy, runs back to Halloween town to tell the townspeople of this completely cool new holiday. Christmas. Try as he might, however, the Halloweeners, while they mean well, don't exactly understand the concept. What they think as an ordinary gift (a shruken head, a screaming snake) normal people are terrified. But alas, Jack is oblivious to this and continues with his revolution of Halloween town. And soon he steals good 'ol Chris Kringle himself (even though he means well). And then it begans to spiral downhill from there.

But that's not important. I could go on for another half a page describing the utter brilliance of TNBC, but I won't. Instead, I'll just babble a few more lines. This is an amazing work of beauty. Yes it is dark, and yes it is gothic, but the music, and the pure oddity yet sharpness of the animation makes this a must see for anyone, as long as they're above the age of eight. This is the real definition of movie. Please, see it.