SCREEN FORMAT 
Modified to fit your screen
Uh-oh. So why did I get the idea that MGM would  put any kind of effort into the release of a properly restored version of this fine classic? "NIMH" has never received  the recognition it deserved. When it first came out in the theater many  many years ago, E.T. was  released simultaneously and blew it right out of  the water.  I won't go into details here why I find this --cartoon--  special and worthwhile, but in short I would lave loved to see a nice  letterboxed version. 
So what did MGM give us? 
Welp, the box is nice  enough if a little garish -- the  front is a reissue of the poster as used  on the VHS cassette. The back has a big red box that explains that  the  movie has been modified to fit a 4:3 screen, which sucks. (The laserdisc  jacket was much nicer)
Inside there's a leaflet with chapter titles,  voice cast names, a few nicely restored promotional pictures and a -very-  brief review of the making of the cartoon.
The disc itself is printed  with a color graphic on one side.
So like it says on the box, Experience  MGM DVD!
There's a short menu where you can pick language (English,  duh)  and subtitles (English / Spanish), play the trailer (which I had never  seen), access chapters and start the feature. Pretty nice, even if the  colors on the screened-in artwork in the background of the menu are a  little off.
The sound is plain dolby surround, and plays just fine, with  no audible form of distortion.
The movie transfer itself, however, is a  little disappointing.  The only frame provided is 4:3. And they did not  appear to have used the same video master  that they built the laserdisc  from back then... instead,  the telecine transfer is from a scratched print  with  faded colors...  I think MGM could have done better than this poor  release. The Laserdisc and VHS versions actually LOOKS better. 
But for  animation-buffs, I guess the disc  is worth it, just for the fact that you  can  freeze frame and analyze the wonderful and subtle animation that came  out of the Bluth studios back then. (The laserdisc version was CLV, which  on analog players precluded freeze frame analysis.)