As I watched the final frames play out on THE THIRD MAN, I knew that I'd just witnessed the cinematic equivalent of great poetry.  Something in the bleak, hopelessness of the scene (and the human experience) were summed up in the dead leaves drifting lifelessly across the screen and in the way that Holly Martins lights another cigarette and bitterly tosses the match to the ground.

Technically, the film is flawless in ever way.  The original screenplay by Graham Greene, the breathtaking direction of Sir Carol Reed, the haunting performances of Joseph Cotton, Valli, Trevor Howard, Orson Welles, Bernard Lee, Wilfred Hyde-White, Ernst Deutsch and others, the stunning noir photography of Robert Krasker (he won the Academy Award for it), and of course the unforgettable music of Anton Karas that becomes a Greek Chorus commenting on the tragic events as they unfold.

But what really makes this film stand head and shoulders above all others is the fact that it somehow manages to function on multiple levels (psychodrama, critique on art, political commentary, loss of innocence fable, exploration of "reality" vs "fantasy", the moral grayness of the world, etc.) while remaining on the surface level, a slick, captivating Hitchcockian thriller (although Hitchcock never made anything half so complex -- including VERTIGO).

I won't give away any elements of the plot here, but some important elements to note are the way that Anna mistakenly calls Holly "Harry"; how Holly is accused several times of mixing himself up with the heroes of the cowboy pulp novels that he writes; how actress Anna tells Holly that she doesn't play tragedy; how idealistic Holly refuses to "be sensible" to the very end, and many more.

The film also abounds in subtle touches, that make successive viewings rewardable.  For instance Harry and Anna's relationship is revealed to have been sexual when upon visiting Harry's former apartment with Holly and the Porter, she absent-mindedly removes a hairbrush from his dresser drawer and begins brushing her hair.  It is further reinforced when, later in the film, she is shown lying awake in her darkened apartment in Harry's pajamas (identified by the "H" embroidered on the pocket).  This latter incident further shows her refusal to let go of Harry ... as well as her identification with him.

Over the years, I've watched this film many times (both the American and British versions), and each time, with a fuller understanding.  "Death's at the bottom of everything" Calloway says, even death is questionable as the funeral scene repeats itself.

It is to be owned -- and savored.