I'm going to assume that those reading these reviews have actually seen the film. If you haven't, and are considering this purchase, please go out and rent a copy first. If possible, rent the Criterion version as it's vastly superior to the Universal DVD release. I say this because the film presents such disturbing imagery, has such a byzantine and convoluted plot requiring repeated viewings to understand fully, and the denouement ends so tragically that the film leaves audiences polarized between those who love and those who hate it, with few left in between.  Rent it first. If you hate it, save your money. 
The Universal release has gone out of print, and given the films history with that studio it's unclear if they will ever release another copy. The Criterion release is still available, but it's not a High Definition remaster and is simply a copy and transfer from their previous LaserDisc release in 1.85:1 letterbox. It's not anamorphic, so if you own a 16x9 HDTV you won't see the benefit of your modern television. I contacted Criterion recently asking about a re-release of Brazil in anamorphic and was told they have no intention of doing so. Further, there are rumors that the Criterion version is about to go out of print as well. Which would leave this landmark film without any US distributor if true. 
If you're an art-film buff, enjoy foreign film, and regularly attend art-house cinema, this is a film you simply *should* see. The visuals are stunning. The acting superb (other than Kim Griest's somewhat lackluster though acceptable performance). The story is filled with ambiguity over what is dreamscape and what is reality, so there are at least two points in the film where the protagonist's experience could have diverged from reality to insanity: the traditional demark being where Jack is killed by terrorists as he is torturing Sam, and the other being where Sam and Jill are caught by storm troopers in the department store as they're helping shoppers after a terrorist bombing. The latter interpretation resolves those complaints about Jill's swift transition from hating to Loving Sam, but isn't as clearly dreamscape because certain plot points aren't as obviously impossible during that earlier stage as after the rescue. 
This film, while derivative of Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, Kafka's The Trial, and Orwell''s 1984, has also been vastly influential on other film-makers; particularly in its visual creativity. Much of Tim Burton's work is clearly derivative of Brazil, and other Gilliam films. And in some ways, one could argue that Gilliam's use of multi-layered background conversation and critical plot points told in background imagery could be said to be derivative of Robert Altman's multi-layerd sound and visual techniques crafted in the '70s. No artist is alone, and certainly Gilliam has stood on the shoulders of cinematic giant's, but so are new filmmakers standing on Gilliam's shoulders now too. He is an important cinematic artist, one who deserves better than this release, and required viewing for all who consider filmmaking an art-form and not simply blind entertainment. You will not be entertained by this film. You may laugh hysterically at points throughout the film, like in Dr. Strangelove, but by the end you will probably find yourself sad and somewhat depressed. If you see it with a date, expect a long conversation about its meaning relative to the modern world and not the expected out-come *cough* of a movie with a date. 
And you might even hate this film afterward. But even so, it's still genius film-making. Genius doesn't have to be fun. Often it's disconcerting and confusing, by definition. If it weren't, it wouldn't have been landmark in a way that changed the art-form. And this film has shifted the landscape and imagery of film-making over the last twenty years in a way that few others can claim. Only genius can do this. 
Thank you for this gift to your audience, Terry. And to the distributors: Please re-release the Criterion director's cut anamorphic and continue selling Criterion's wonderful extra features. It's a film-school semester in a box.