MAA-AAN! It really grinds my gears when a movie develops a bad rep upon release an' e'ybody an' they mother jus' assumes it's bad even before they see it. I hadn't heard hardly ANY positive reaction to this movie, but decided to be me an' check it out for myself. Now I like jus' 'bout e'ything Eddie Murphy did between the early 1980s an' the early to mid-1990s. I think he's a very talented actor an' comedian (though his script choices as of late show a sign of poor judgment) an' to see him reprise the role of Reggie Hammond, the role that turned him into a Hollywood superstar (sure as hell uppin' his bankability, 'ya notice how in this one Eddie's top-billed, whereas in the original Nolte was?), I was pretty psyched. Is' several years later an' a lot has changed; Cates stopped drinkin' an' seems a lil' more laid-back an' easy going because of it, he's trackin' a mysterious druglord called 'The Ice Man' that the rest'a the department doesn't believe exists, an' Reggie is FINALLY about to get outta the pen after servin' an extended five-year sentence for robbin' the payroll (which he CLAIMS he didn't do). While trackin' the Ice Man, Cates discovers that somehow Reggie is involved an' the people he's after have a hit planned. Soooooo with Reggie bein' the only link to a seemingly-unsolveable crime, Cates is standin' there smilin' on the mornin' of Reggie's release from custody. Jus' not to a real receptive friend.

I really don't see how people can say that its 'more remake than sequel', 'cause it seems 'ta me like an OBVIOUS extension of the first. The crazy lunatic bikers have vendettas toward Reggie an' Cates that run deeper than the usual business hit, also no matter how much Reggie DOESN'T wanna be involved, Cates has the upper hand bein' that he's still in possession'a his half a million dollars an' gleaming Porsche. Oh yeah, an' Reggie's none-too-happy 'bout rottin' in jail for five years longer than his original sentence an' then comin' out to find out Cates won't give him his hard-stolen cash. Speakin'a which, I like the way Eddie played Reggie in this one; bein' that he had been holed up in prison even LONGER, an' that Cates offered him NO assistance an' put in no good words for him, it would make sense that he would be a lot angrier an' frustrated than in the original where he was mostly jus' smarmy an' fast-talkin'. The scenes where he blows up at Cates with rage are the best in the whole flick. The tension between the two is there once again, but rather than bein' the result of background an' race as in the first one, here is' the result of good old-fashioned spite. Two guys who went from enemies to friends an' back to enemies gotta find a way to get back to friends if they gon' get outta this alive.

Now, don't get me wrong, this don't in ANY way eclipse the original. But is' a solid, entertaining effort an' the chemistry between Murphy an' Nolte is as sparkin' an' snappin' as ever. Is' not excellent or anything, there are a few uneven spots an' the guys who play the crazy hillbilly bikers bring new meaning to the term "over-acting", but is' not nearly as bad as critics an' stuffed shirts made it out to be. C'mon now, anytime you got a sequel to a bar-raising, near-CLASSIC, how can you expect it to jus' blow you away all over again? Is' not even possible. The original '48 HRS.' set a standard for which buddy cop flicks were to be played by throughout the 1980s. At the start of the 1990s, after a steady barrage from the genre an' a headache-inducing amount'a copycats, is' almost impossible for this material to be TOTALLY fresh. But with what they was workin' with, I think they did a good job. An', for me at least, they delivered.