I saw this movie last summer with a friend to kill an afternoon. After the credits rolled we left the theater with two different thoughts in our heads. My friend was thinking "Man, I want to get a Honda and upgrades and a five inch muffler and participate in illegal street races (He says this despite that fact that we reside in a dull, suburban town nestled along the Hudson river where the maximum speed limit is thirty miles an hour)!" I was thinking "Why did I see this?" This movie is terrible, one of the worst films I've ever seen. The script is horrible--so horrible that the fungus lurking under my kitchen sink could write better stuff. The acting is laughable. It is laughable for two reasons, 1) Being that the person in charge of casting is a dog or a toddler or a rock (I'd say all three, but that would be giving too much credit), and 2) The horrible script gives these "actors" the worst lines imaginable. The plot is far-fetched and corny. It involves street racers who hijack trucks full of electronics and showboat while they do it. A young cop who drives around in a reved-up, neon Honda (Oh, so that's the new police squad car...) comes to investigate the hijackings and gets involved in the secret world of illegal street racing and meets the "Big Man", Torreto. Then he falls in love with Torettos sister. So to sum it up, the cop needs to stop the truck hijackers, marry Toretto's sister, and earn Toretto's respect in the process. Of course there are the predictable plot twists (the cop goes in only to bust Toretto, but then befriends him and feels guilty when he arrests him) and to accompany the predictable twists, there is the predictable ending (Toretto forgives the cop and everyone's happy). The cast is filled with the most simple and campy characters. We have the young, blonde, rebellious cop, the cold-but-misunderstood street racer, the comedic Spanish racer, and the cold, heartless, well groomed Chinese racer. Oh yes, we also have the brainy genious with the sad story (who in the end gets shot to make the people feel even more remorse for him), and the "independent" sister/lover. Basically, the cast stunk. The soundtrack was garbage too, using wannabe hardcore rockers such as the crap-tastical Limp Bizkit. One may suspect that since the movie's about cars, then at least the automoblies should be good, but the movie is incapable of delivering even that. Most of the cars are inexpensive little Hondas. No reved-up Porches or Mustangs here (I could imagine that since the main characters were poor, they wouldn't be able to afford such nice cars, so they hooked them up with cheap ones. But then answer me this: If they can't afford cars like that, then how can they afford the upgrades on their cars?). I strongly suggest this to anyone who is considering renting this movie: Don't do it. This is a terrible movie. You will killing your day and torturing yourself. Go out and rent Pulp Fiction or Saving Private Ryan--you'll be glad you did.