I don't usually give classics high marks because movies to me are visual more than cerebral entertainment, and technology, production and might I even say, directing, is just so much better all the time.

However, Rear Window is one of those movies which transcends time, maybe because it only takes place in one setting there isn't much technology could do to improve it. And perhaps the grainy quality of the movie actually enhances the creepy atmosphere. The movie set itself is masterful, especially considering it was done in 1954. And gosh, Grace Kelly, they just don't make movie stars like that anymore.

So, what's good about it?  It puts you in the position of Jefferies, who is basically helpless. We are voyeurs together with him, however, a horrendous event occurs which eventually involves him, and being helpless, he cannot escape...... That's it in a nutshell, without telling you the story, which if you want to know you can read the other reviews.  I don't think any of Hitchcock's other movies have stood the test of time as well as this one because there pretty much isn't anything you could do to improve it. As I said, the poorer quality of 1954 production values only adds to this movie - making this movie any better would only make it worse.

Goofs:
1) When Jefferies changes his lens, he just puts it camera side down on a table. No pro worth his salt would ever do that, or use a telephoto over binoculars for that matter.
2) An in home nurse who also prepares a sandwich?! Bring me back to 1954! OK, her sandwich better be better than her 1 minute massage.
3) And this is the worst goof of all. Unbelievable. There isn't anything wrong with Jefferies' leg, it's his brain which is the problem.  How can any sane man reject a Grace Kelly who's throwing herself at him, c'mon, get real! That's just real bad script. If Rosanne Barr was playing Lisa Fremont, then yeah, I'd believe it, yeah then I'd try to get to SE Asia ASAP lobster dinners notwithstanding. (Or maybe he just doesn't want to leave that apartment and Ms. Torso.)

Enjoy.