A true classic and brillient movie. This movie was made before I was even born and even to this day it holds up the test of time very well. It makes you wish that we had more movies like this now a days for kids and people of all ages to enjoy. 
The story is of a very poor little boy named Charlie who doesn't have much, doesn't want much and helps out the family that all live in a one room shack.  When news spreads of the chance to win a tour into the famous Willy Wonka chocolate factory, pandemonium ensues and everyone starts to buy his chocolate bars to hopefuly find one of the 5 golden tickets hidden inside for a chance to tour the famous factory that has been closed for years to the public. Charlie wants nothing more then to win a ticket and when he does, that's when the magic starts.  
The wonderful part of the movie is the factory itself that we finaly get to see after a very long , yet enjoyable build up of all the kids around the world who find the 4 tickets before Charlie and how much you start to really root for Charlie as we find out more about his sad life.  When we get to the factory itself we see who is behind the chcolate, all the inventions that he has come up with and all the trouble the kids get into and what happens due to their actions. It really is a very psycological story that will not only make you think but laugh at the same time when you realize what happens to some of the kids and their parents. 
I can't stress enough how great this movie truly is. It has songs and colorful sets and great special effects. The actors who are all no names except for Wilder himself all play their parts excellently.  Its almost like the Harry Potter of the 70s in a way.  If anything this movie will make you think and laugh and its a movie you truly will want to watch many times. The DVD doesn't have many special features but it has the commentary from the actual 5 kids who were in this movie, even if they are 20 years older now and some sing along songs and trailers.  Also any age will like this movie. The kids will like the humor while the adults will just like the songs and well written story.  
If you ever wanted to see a kid go from rags to riches and have all his dreams come true when all seemed lost.. this is the movie for you. Even if you didn't this is still the movie for you. Get it now. You won't be disapointed at the fun and hijinx that unfold through the eyes of one poor kid and a wacky chocolate maker.