I have to say I ABSOLUTELY LOVED the first SCOOBY-DOO movie! Just like Freddie Prinze Jr, who plays Fred in the films and is a big Scooby fan, the first film was more than I expected from a Scooby film, and then some. It was funny, scary, the story had a few plot twists that caught you by surprise, the production quality was great, the characters were brought to life exceptionally well by every actor... I could go on and on.

In this sequel, everything is done even better. The production quality (the sets, the costumes, the colors, the monsters) is larger than life. You can really tell they put a lot of effort to make this movie feel right like in the Scooby cartoons universe.

The characters personalities and their relationships and place in the group are explored even further. If the first film brought these characters to life, this one really makes you feel for each member of Mystery Inc. They grew a lot in the first one, but they mature in different aspects in this one.

The movie is even zanier and wackier than the first, yet it has its touching moments of character growth, sometimes it even feels like a little romantic comedy wrapped up in a hilarious (sometimes spooky) cartoonish environment. They did really well in giving a positive message of finding your true self and staying true to it, which I think is a plus, since you feel like you learned something good while having fun. That's sometimes hard to see when they bring cartoon characters to life, but they managed to do an excellent job in this film, in every aspect.

Every Scooby fan will just love it, its the cartoon brought to life and made even better. You'll watch it again and again.

It's nice that they made this film more family and kids friendly than the previous film, which was a bit darker and scary and the comedy sometimes was a tad more adult. Personally, I loved Scooby Doo 2, but I would've loved it also if they kept the darker and more adult feel of the previous one. I'm really a kid at heart, but I liked it when they appealed to older audiences in SCOOBY DOO 1. Overall, I think both movies have a different feel and they balance each other well. Its great that the producers managed to develop different aspects from the cartoon series in both films and they really strived for them to be fun, meaningful movies. You don't simply feel like you've seen a simple live action version of a cartoon; you manage to care for the characters and learn from them. Excellent work!

In a nutshell, if you like Scooby-Doo, if you like fun movies and want also to feel like you learned something from cartoon characters, buy both of these films!