Some people watch Bram Stoker's Dracula and are immediately disgusted by the erotica/blood and gore.  At first it seems as though FFC butchered the novel, but upon closer examination a viewer realizes that he actually tapped into the undercurrents of Victorian society.  One of the classic themes in storytelling is the fascination with the dark man/woman, such as in Phantom of the Opera or Time Machine.  In the Introduction to Bram Stoker's Dracula (at least, in my copy), a lit crit expounds upon the undertones of women's sexuality, and on the hidden references to Dracula's sexual power over the female characters in the book.  You may notice in the course of the movie, you never see him draw the blood of a man and you never see Lucy draw the blood of a woman.  This is because the drawing of the blood is a semi-metaphor for intercourse (just look at the face Oldman makes as Ryder begins to drink his blood).  To sum it up, the love story, the reminiscing is not directly referenced in the novel, but the sexual connection/attraction between Dracula and Mina is.

What I personally like about the movie is the soundtrack and the art direction (with the exception of some of the gore and the rape scene).  Most of all, I love this movie for Gary Oldman's beautiful performance.  He is famous for being a 'man without a face' (like as Mason Verger in Hannibal), and in the course of the movie Dracula assumes five different faces. His ability to embody both horror and love, both anger and longing is almost painful to watch because it is so good. At one point he says to his beloved Mina "I have crossed oceans of time to find you", and his longing almost becomes tangible even through the screen.

I would not describe this movie as a 'must-see' unless you're a horror movie fan.  You have to have a stomach for violence, or a quick finger on the fast-forward button.  Additional criticism: Keanu Reeves doesn't do the 'love' thing; the brides of Dracula are over the top; Dracula isn't evil enough.

This movie is one of my favorite romance movies (for an idea of where I stand, I should tell you that Hannibal is also one of my favorite romance movies).  The longing displayed is of a Phantom of the Opera calibur, and reaches to parts of the human psyche that most people don't even realize are there.