I first saw this movie on the Independent Film Channel, and once I began watching it for a while, I found myself unable to leave the room.  The plot automatically caught my attention.  Not seeing the beginning of the movie the first time watching it, I then rented it to watch it a second time all the way through.  Vincent D' Onofrio (seen in the Cell) plays the terrific role of Sam, who seeks to find love among other things from co-start Ruby, played by Marisa Tomei (seen in My Cousin Vinni).  The two create an awesome chemistry, which only lures the viewer deeper into their romance.

 The movie features a young woman, Ruby (Tomei), dealing with her many issues of family, friends and love throughout therapy.  She then meets the strangely irresistible Sam (D' Onofrio) who forces her to deal with her issues of love directly, avoiding nothing.  Besides Sam's immediate attraction and love for her being hard to handle, Sam reveals to Ruby that he is from the future and that he is on a mission.  Ruby is stunned like anyone would be, but instead of dumping Sam immediately, she decides to investigate the situation.  Sam being from the future may seem a little far fetched, but the movie makes time travel actually seem believable.

The movie would be categorized as a mix of romance, comedy and mystery.  Some might consider the movie a bit of a chick flick considering the main plot of Sam and Ruby's relationship, but I think the movie has a lot more plot and potential than just a love story because of its time travel subject involvement.  The story may be hard to believe for some with it's from the future character stance, but necessary explanations of who, how and why are given.  To say anything more about the plot of the movie would ruin it.

You will find yourself dieing to see whether things work out like they should between the two through the many twists and turns of arguments and disagreements.  Overall, the movie is very well done with the acting and plot.  I recommend it to any woman or man who doesn't doubt science or emotion.  The movie gives hope to those who those who have lost all hope in love.  Ruby herself felt hopeless in finding love, but Sam seemed to change that.