Redline has one positive thing: Beautiful machines that are worth more than houses.  Other than that, I nearly lost count of the number of errors. This film was like an extended rap video, minus the rappers and their bling bling. I thought Fast & The Furious 3 was as horrible as it could get. I was wrong.

First of all, if you're going to gamble with a movie that has only one actor people can name (Eddie Griffin who plays "Infamous") then your script and plot better compensate for it. Redline missed this one by much more than a quarter mile and their solution was to fill scene after scene with half-nude women.

Gone In 60 Seconds was a perfect example of having a good plot, nice cars and familiar faces playing characters. Plus, in that film at least there were numerous opponents the lead characters had to take on (i.e. the police, other car thieves, the murderous bad guy, etc.). In Redline the villainous Uncle is easier to laugh at than fear.

And what half-brain decided to bring this expert race-car driver in towards the end for two scenes, who supposedly killed Natasha's father, and then eliminate him before the race is over? The level of suspense didn't increase at all because he wasn't identified early on as he should've been to up the pressure on the lead character.

Then there's the cheesy fight sequences and shooting scenes. A little choreography never hurt anyone. All of The Bourne movies with Matt Damon have terrific scenes with both armed and unarmed combat and two were released prior to this film. Too bad the writer(s) didn't watch them.

The predictability of each action sequence or major shift in the story is uncanny. I could watch this movie blindfolded and know what would happen next.

A little music from the Top 40 is usually helpful too so it doesn't sound like we're listening to the tunes from a porn flick. This can lead to a little more income as well from selling the soundtrack.

I realize the budget on this film was low just by watching the trailer. However, the writers failed to make up for that and just didn't put the heroes of the film through enough challenges or emotional situations that an audience could find a way to relate to.

But then again, I'm glad I saw this film. If Hollywood is willing to lower its standards like this, then I know I truly stand a chance at becoming a successful actor and screenwriter.

It doesn't surprise me that some wealthy real estate investor produced this film as a gift for his girlfriend - Nadia Bjorlin who plays Natasha - because no major production studio in Hollywood would allow such shallow and sloppy filmmaking with their dollars on the line.

I walked away from this movie feeling sorry for all of those cars they destroyed and the B-list actors who may have postponed their next big roll by accepting such a pointless one.