Andrew Niccols' "Gattaca" takes place in a "not so distant future," but like all serious science fiction works, it is a commentary about the present. In its stylishly sequenced narrative, reminiscent of a honey-washed and glowing photo spread in an old issue of Life magazine, or the best of a high-end merchandizing catalog, it is also a passionate tribute to the romantic notion that the human spirit is, and always will be, beyond the icy grip of science.  
The film tells the story of the allegorically named Vincent Freeman(Ethan Hawke) who sets out to follow his dream of space travel, even though he was born the "old-fashioned" way, which renders him genetically flawed. As such, he is forced to work in low-level occupations, the fate of all "In-Valids," who represent the untouchables of that not-so-distant-future in which genetic engineering has replaced the divisive powers formerly held only by wealth alone. Vincent, resourceful because of his spirit -- for which there is no gene, as the movie's tagline suggests -- finds a way to make his dreams a reality, though not without the help of a disabled "Valid" (Jude Law). The "Valid," Jerome, who lends Vincent his identity, as well as regular samples of his blood, urine, and other genetic identifiers used in monitoring society's privileged caste, while in possession of superior genes, lacks the one thing that transforms dreams into reality: the spirit of ambition -- or the desire to conquer the universe. 
Ironically, it may have been that very same romantic ambition of the human spirit, which drives Vincent towards the stars, that brought the deadening "perfection" of the tightly controlled world of "Gattaca" into being in the first place -- but that's more of a comment on the nature of romanticism, rather than on this movie. I bring this up mostly because of the Wagnerian tones in the soundtrack, which was composed and arranged by Michael Nyman. The relentless striving apparent in the themes of the music gives the movie another critical dimension in which to build its vision of the triumphs of the human spirit over the soulless rigors of science.
The acting in this movie is superb, not in least because of the stress on the ensemble of actors over individual performances as such. There is a great deal of power in the subtly restrained acting styles of Ethan Hawke and Uma Thurman in their respective roles. Having said that, it seems to me that Jude Law's performance as the "Valid" Jerome, who has everything but that one important passion to hold it all together, stands out because of his understanding that this character is perhaps more interesting than the genetically flawed Vincent, who has but a single all-consuming -- and therefore, limiting -- ambition. Jude Law's performance in this movies foreshadows his performance in Spielberg's A.I.