I found the concept behind this film fascinating.  I'd read about life-like sex dolls, like the one portrayed in "Love Object," and wondered why someone would want one.  It's easy to understand why a man would want a doll that looks and feels like a real woman, and the people who make these dolls are genuinely talented.  But why would they be willing to pay so much money ($10,000 in this film) for what is esentially a masturbation aid?  Truly, some men have no imagination.  But when "Love Object" examines the relationship between Kenneth and "Nikki," it shows that for some people, the doll may be a substitute for human companionship.

Kenneth orders a realistic sex doll named Nikki over the internet, and selects preferences that allow him to model Nikki after his attractive new coworker, Lisa.  Kenneth talks to Nikki, and acts as if she is also speaking to him.  He even serves her dinner and watches films with her that he thinks she might enjoy.  He observes Lisa, her makeup and clothing choices, and even the music she listens to, and imposes them all onto Nikki.  Lisa is a temp, and wears a lot of clothing from thrift stores.  She mentions to Kenneth that she when she gets a real job she wants some new clothes.  Kenneth responds by buying clothes for Nikki that he thinks Lisa would want if she could afford them.  After a while, Lisa and Kenneth become close, but Kenneth has become so accustomed to Nikki that he can't imagine her letting him go.  The conversations he imagines between them become jealous fighting.

After Lisa and Kenneth are an "item," he takes her out shopping for new clothes.  He mentions his "ex," Nikki.  Lisa learns the truth about Nikki when she finds a postcard advertisement for the sex doll.  The doll has been modeled after Lisa from the beginning, but since she has just bought the new, expensive clothing, she sees it backward, and thinks he has modeled her after the doll.  This is one scene in an otherwise successfully rendered film that doesn't quite work.  Lisa thinks, at first, that Kenneth has chosen clothes for her so that she will look like his "ex," until she turns the card over to see that Nikki is a doll.  I expected her to feel really dumb and apologize, because that's what I'd do.  The only reason she thinks this is a picture of his ex is because it has the same name.  I don't think that her first assumption would be that this sex doll had to be the "ex," just because they were both named Nikki.  Of course, in Kenneth's mind, this IS a picture of his "ex."  I think Lisa should have learned the truth about Kenneth by Kenneth's REACTION to her finding the card, instead of her figuring everything out just by finding it.

From a feminist perspective, the film is interesting because Nikki represents what some men want women to be.  Nikki is attractive, allows her partner to have sex with her any way he chooses, and only tells him what he wants to hear.  When Kenneth begins to interact in a sexual way with a real live woman, he learns that in a real relationship, there will be conflict.  When a woman has her own personality, you can't control what she'll say or do.  His relationship with the doll represents his desire to control every aspect of a woman for his own pleasure.

I thought the lead actor was brilliant in the role, but he was a little too good looking to be believable as being this socially inept.  It was obvious he was too shy to approach women.  That much was certainly established.  But I found it hard to believe that a guy this cute had never had a woman interested in him before.  A theme explored in the film "May," was that the female lead was actually quite pretty, and had no problem getting a few people to talk to her.  The problem was that she was such a weirdo that once they got to know her, they were no longer interested.  In "Love Objects," it's never really clear what was so weird about Kenneth to begin with.  Before the doll, he seemed a bit shy, but shy enough to repulse all women in spite of his good looks.

Others have said that the ending, as well as the overall tone of the film, might not appeal to women, but as a feminist, I found it very appropriate.  A woman being victimized will often respond in anger, and a woman's anger, even when justified, is often interpreted by society as irrationality and hysteria.  If you take your girlfriend to a restaurant and flirt with the waitress, and your girlfriend (or the waitress, for that matter) gets mad, do you really think it's because she's having her period?  (hint: if you answered "yes," you are incorrect.)  This film examines a male's instinct to assert dominance and control over a female, as well as society's temptation to blame the victim in such a case.