Arnold gives one of his best action movies of all time.  It's quite possible one of the most action-packed, death-filled movies that will ever be seen.  And I loved every minute of it.

Arnold is the former leader of a Special Ops unit.  He's given up the lifestyle to live in seclusion with his daughter, a young Alyssa Milano.  Their secluded existence is perfect - they spend days chopping wood, feeding baby deer, and frolicking in a swimming pool - but their bliss is short lived.  What Arnold doesn't know, however, is that a former soldier of his - one that was kicked out of the unit because of the "don't ask don't tell" policy - wants revenge in the worst way possible.  This Daniel Boone utopia is interrupted when Matrix' former soldiers are assassinated, eventually bringing the enemy to attack Matrix and a few sacrificial bodyguards.  Luckily Matrix was upwind and was able to smell them coming.  That's right, he smelled them coming.

Arnold's arch-enemy, Bennett, is one of the most laughable characters of all time.  He's hardly masculine; in fact, he looks like he'd be more comfortable in a gay German porn than in an action movie.  He just happens to be the most flamboyantly flabby mercenary ever.  He's the kind of guy who might fire an M16 and moments later bake a quiche, insisting on dressing like a gay biker from the Blue Oyster Bar from Police Academy.  What's even greater is that the henchmen employed by the fake tough guy villain are even weaker.

Anyway, the bad guys kidnap Arnold's daughter in order to exact some revenge.  They give him some demands, but he knows that there is no way she'll be allowed to live.  Instead of following their demands, he gets help from RDChong (by telling her, "Dey're gunna keeil huah!"), and starts a mission to rescue her and kill approximately 5,400 men.  Other unbelievable, yet stupendous, parts of this movie include: Arnold rips the front seat out of a car with his bare hands; Arnold jumps from an airplane that is taking off, and at approximately 1,000 feet he is able to land in a marsh and run away; and Arnold is able to rip an elevator from the wall and fling it about as if it's a refrigerator cardboard box.

The movie is full of great Arnold-isms.  He drops a guy from a cliff and says that he "let him go".  He kills another and says the guy is, "dead tired".  He runs through an impossibly hopeless situation and ends up with mere scratches.  In fact, that's one of the greatest parts of this macabre delight.  Near the end of the movie, Arnold is openly running through fields and various other settings with no cover, nothing to stop the bullets, and literally 20 or 30 men at a time firing upon him with automatic weapons.  Not a bullet touches him.  Arnold on the other hand has to simply turn and fire; he's got the auto-lock-on feature enabled, and bad guys are vanquished.  Every bullet from Arnold's gun, whichever he chooses, is center mass, and deadly.  It's hilarious, and it's great!  He stabs a guy with a pitchfork, hits another with a blade from a saw, and crushes a guy's groin with an axe.

The two most memorable parts of this movie are worth watching over and over.  One, in which Arnold is chasing a bad guy in maybe the only Arnold car chase scene ever, is great because it's a movie error.  He totally wrecks a car, and it flips on the driver side.  When Arnold flips the car back on its wheels, the door is magically fixed.  The absolute best part of this movie is the ending; it's pure Arnold.  He kills his antagonist with a pipe through the chest, which goes straight through the body and into a steam machine of some kind.  The steam leaves through the pipe, through the body, and out the end of the pipe.  Arnold finishes him off with the classic line, "Let off some steam".

Best action movie of all time - highly recommended.