If you are the type of person who can stomach really bad performance art, than you might be able to enjoy this film, because that's all it really is. There isn't much of a plot, the acting is horrific, and it includes some of the most unlikable and unsympathetic cast of characters that I have ever seen in a film. It is hard to care about a bunch of people that can be so completely full of themselves, yet so self destructive, at the same time. So, when many of these characters ended up dying, I was actually glad because I figured it meant that the film must be getting closer to the end. After all, how long can a film go on after almost everyone is dead in it. But, regardless of that, the end still did not come soon enough. And it is certainly not a realistic time capsule of the early '80s New Wave scene. For one thing, there isn't any real New Wave music in it. The soundtrack only consists of music that was written for the film, and although it may be synth heavy, like most New Wave music is, it is extremely repetitive sounding, and grates easily on the nerves. It is also mostly instrumental, and it lacks the catchiness that the best New Wave songs have. So don't be thinking that you'll be hearing: Gary Numan, The B-52's, The Cars, Devo, or any other New Wave greats while you are watching this film, because you won't hear any of them. Perhaps you think those bands are too mainstream for a film like this, and you could be right, but there were plenty of great underground bands in New York during the time like: James Chance and The Contortions, The Bush Tetras, and ESG, and you won't be hearing anything by those bands either. There has to be a better film out there that has it's pulse on the Downtown NY scene of the early '80s than this, because what this film shows is an elitist group of pretentious art fags with overblown egos, so it really only represents a minority of the people who were involved in the music scene. If you like those kind of people, or perhaps were one of them yourself, than you will probably love this film. But if you are hoping to find a film that is a realistic snapshot of an underground subculture during it's musical peak, you should look elsewhere.