Reviewers kept calling this movie stunning and beautiful horror, and so I was very intrigued. It is well filmed and there are a few visually interesting sets, but it was no more beautiful (or not as beautiful, even) and did not have any more depth than several other horrors/psycho-thrillers I've seen.

I didn't like how convoluted and weird it became near the end, but that was not the most crucial misstep. The movie just simply wasn't that interesting. The characters all seem irrational and unsympathetic. The film moves slowly, which is fine at first, but when coupled with the strange behavior of the characters you start to lose interest. I didn't feel like it was meaningful, either. There is a tragedy at the heart of the story, but the character most affected by it isn't relate-able or likeable, and something in the bizarre way it's presented distances the viewer from any emotional response.

I was also hoping for more originality. I'd never seen a Korean horror, so I was expecting some different techniques. But there was nothing really innovative in the method of filming. And even though I am only slightly acquainted with Asian horror, even I could pick out tropes that felt pretty stale. A vengeful, silent, long-haired spirit... photographs with faces scratched out... spirits hiding in strange, dark places throughout the house... etc. Though I didn't understand the twist ending completely, what I saw did not feel very shocking or new. The twist actually involved elements that were unoriginal in all types of horror.

It's true I did not come away from this movie with a strong sense of disgust or aversion. Actually, I didn't come away with any strong feelings at all. This is one of those movies where, at the end, you shake your head, feel vaguely cheated of time, but shrug and move on with your day without any real desire to watch the movie again. Understanding all the puzzle pieces and the twist ending wouldn't matter, because there is no true connection to the film itself. And that is the crux of the problem right there.