I was a kid when I first saw ROPE, some 15 years ago. I vividly remembered that scene of the maid cleaning up after the party - the camera nailed down to one spot; just the one view of the maid clearing-off the table/chest, unaware of its ghastly contents. You watch her up close as she picks up plates from atop the chest and then she walks into the distance to the kitchen and then she comes back to us to take more things off the chest and then goes away again, back and forth, again and again, cleaning, working her way closer and closer --- all the while you know what's inside that chest and that, once she clears it off, if she were to look inside...

...and you wait and watch in euphoric agony.

And it was then, all those years ago, watching Rope, watching that scene, I first understood what it was a director did (or at least one of the most important things he does). I understood the director's role in how the story is told - from what the camera reveals and how the images are presented to you. There's an intelligent design behind the unfolding of the story that is a character in itself. It has a tangible personality. And that character is rarely as vivid and forceful than when it's Hitchcock.

I saw Rope for the second time just a few days ago and it is even better than I remembered. But, for me, it's a stretch to believe Jimmy Stewart could or would want to expound upon Nietzschean philosophy. He's exudes too much homespun wholesomeness to be talking about the &Uuml;bermensch. Gregory Peck might have been a better choice for that role. He can seem dark and brooding while conveying enough inner goodness to keep the audience's affection, if that was the goal in choosing Stewart. James Mason would be even better and that would have made it a very dark picture, but perhaps too dark for the time.

Still, ROPE is Hitchcock using all his powers of suspense and his genius for direction. Notorious, Psycho, North By Northwest and The Birds may get a lot of attention, but this is a film no Hitchcock fan should miss and it is too often overlooked. Also be sure to watch the extras, there is a very illuminating little documentary piece you should see.