Supernova is not just another disaster- or `end of the world'-story which of so many have been released during the past decade, following in the footsteps of Deep Impact and Armageddon. Many of these pictures usually go with a top-notch cast of some washed-up actors (here it is: Luke Perry, Peter Fonda, Tia Carrere and - as always - Lance Henriksen). Most of these films have the typical disaster-plotline. Scientist discovers there is something cataclysmic to happen, be it regional or worldwide. No one believes him and together with an unexpected and first reluctant sidekick help (always an ex-wife or estranged colleague) he has to work out a plan to save the world. Most of the time it works and the former disengaged twosome reunite. End of story. Together with some spectacular views of fire, quakes, storms or lava another disaster flick is ready for distribution.

Supernova differs from this path. There is of course the scientist (Peter Fonda) who discovered that the sun is about to explode, which will burn the entire planet. But no-one questions his outcomings. Fonda flees to the Maldives while his colleague (Perry) desperately wants to find him. Soon afterwards a journalist who finds out about this Solar Apocalypse is faced with the question to publicize this story or not. Her boss insists not to publish the story, yet unfortunately her footage is leaked on the internet, and many who have seen this are running wild. The government is also in search of Fonda and send agent Carrere to work with Perry. In the meantime Henriksen is working on a plan to bring humanity in shelters.

Apart from this main plot there is a subplot. A convicted serial killer is after Perry's wife and child. This story is an interesting thriller, it does not add anything to the Supernova story. It was better to cut this from the movie.

Some other critical remarks: Fonda should have been given a much larger role than he has here. We only see him in the beginning and when he flies to the Maldives, which in fact are a flat archipelago and have no mountains, unlike shown here. The outcomings of the Supernova are very disappointing, I won't spoil anything here...but you'll see what I mean.

In short, Supernova is an above average disaster movie, because it dwells much less on the usual special effects. The viewer is asked questions on what he would do. Should society be warned that the end is near, while risking a people going crazy? How should you spend your last days on this planet, going nuts and doing everything God has forbidden or partying till you drop?