This is not only my favorite Batman moive, and it is not only my favorite comic book movie, but it is my favorite movie of all time. By far. It is exciting, awesome, action-packed, and the perfect end to the greatest trilogy ever. Though the running time makes it seem like a long film, it is very fast paced, so it doesn't feel too long at all. The film flies by, never having a dull moment.

I'll get the two quick problems out of the way. Holly Robinson was an unimportant charcter that didn't add anything. She should have been left out. Also, one of the relationships seemed a little forced, but it ends up working really well. Everything else was spectcaular.

The cast was amazing, as it was in the first two films. Gary Oldman, Christian Bale, Morgan Freeman, and Michael Caine all return to stun and amaze. Newcomers Marion Cotillard, Tom Hardy, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and Anne Hathaway are all incredible, as well, and there are a few surprising cameos that are quite enjoyable. Everyone in this movie performed their part perfectly, and at no point did I wish someone else should have been playing their part.

The plot was grand and well-conceived. It uses many elements from Knightfall, No Man's Land, and the Dark Knight Returns, as well as taking small pieces from Dark Victory and Knightquest. It keeps the dark and serious tone from the first two, and adds an even greater feel of panic and despair, as the main threat is larger than it's ever been. Batman Begins was supposed to stand alone, and then the Dark Knight was supposed to be the last one, so for a finale in a trilogy that wasn't planned, The Dark Knight Rises does a nice job of tying everything together, and making it seem like one long story.

All of the action scenes seem genuine, like they weren't planned out at all, but actually had real fighters let loose on each other. It was great to see, especially since many of the characters in action are some of the best charcters in comics. Nice to see them brought to life so perfectly, and their fighting could not have been done any better.

The special effects were mind-blowing, and I could never tell if the filmmakers actually did that, or if they just did it with a computer. The effects were used appropriately, not too much and not too little. They made everything believable and stunning to watch.

The score is another major plus. In the first two, Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard delivered beauties like Corynorhinus, Eptesicus, and A Watchful Guardian. In this film, although without JNH, Hans Zimmer still manages to perform. The tracks and overall score are just as beautiful, breath-taking, and epic.

The characters are also a big bonus. Bane is one of Batman's greatest villains, and having him take on Batman in the final movie was a brilliant idea. He can not only match Batman with his brains, but he is also quite capable of overpowering Batman with his pure, brute strength. This is a much needed problem for Batman, as the first two movies never really featured someone who could match Batman's strength. Bane is cunning and devious, planning out every move in order to accomplish his goals and eliminate any enemies. He is prepared for everything, and he can be shocking and brutal at times, which is appreciated. Overall, he is fairly menacing and a bit scary, two welcome features in a villain.

Selina Kyle is portrayed perfectly. She is much closer to her comic book counterpart than she ever was in Batman Returns. She is agile, deceitful, cunning, quick, smart, and always doing whatever she wants.

*Spoiler*

Her transition from villainous theif, to unwilling ally, to full-blown hero was done quite nicely. It seemed like a natural progression, very similar to how it is done in the comcis. She was one of my favorite parts of the movie. The other ones I won't say because even though I have a spoiler warning, I'm sure some people will accidentally glance here, and I don't want to ruin it.

*Ok, it's safe now*

There are plenty of classic scenes and moments (although none top the last scene in The Dark Knight), and there are many twists and turns, some that are expected and some that will shock you.

The Dark Knight Rises is an amazing ending to an amazing trilogy. These movies are by far the most accurate to feature Batman. They are dark and serious, gritty and tragic, perfectly capturing the true essence of Batman. They also borrow from some of Batman's most influencial and popular storylines. These movies are the definitive live-action (so you can calm down BTAS lovers, I love that series too) take on Batman, and they also stand atop not only superhero movies or comic book movies, but all movies in general. This genius series could not have ended better, and I fully recommend TDKR (although you really need to see the first two before watching this one).

And if you like these movies, I recommend reading the comcis too. You should start with Year One (major influence on BB), and then read classics like Monster Men, the Man Who Laughs, and the Long Halloween (influence on TDK). Down the line I recommend Dark Victory, Hush, and the books that influenced this movie (stated above, 3rd paragraph). Wikipedia has a list of the reading order for modern Batman (list of Batman comics,[...]. You won't be disappointed.

So, if you haven't seen the first two, go watch them! If you've seen them already, then watch TDKR right away! Even if you've already seen TDKR too. Go watch it again! It's that good--it's the best.

Infinite stars!!