The Second Raid took me by surprise on how well the main story line and mix storylines fit perfectly and ended in a good note. Full Metal Panic! The Second Raid is darker (Seriously), shows more action,cursing is somewhat common in the anime,shows you what extend the characters go through to get what they need. Since i was not expecting some of the things that then producers put in the third season, half the time my jaw dropped and i was shock on how the third season has a edger side to it.

Sum Of The Story (No Spoilers)
Sousuke Sagara has three jobs. Protecting Kaname Chiodri, learning and using the new A-S, and maintaining good grades at school. When all three comes to danger, Sousuke life takes a toll and he has a breakdown. Can Sousuke overcome the odds or taking orders from Mithril is too much for the teenage? Meanwhile at Mithril, Terrorist are attacking Hong Kong and a familiar face waits for them. which side would the war-student bodyguard will pick?

The only con about the anime is that their was two sisters naked and holding each other. Shocking i was hoping that they were not going to hope on the good foot and do the bad (I'm not going to details with that, think about) but they didn't. The fanservice is a little bit more than the first one so yes their is nudity.

The Box set is slimer than the first one so putting in small places is not a problem. It comes with four discs and booklets. If you forgot what happen in one episode or you want to look up who so and so is, The booklet offers it. It will show you their profile, the weapons, the A-S, and how the producers got the background for the anime. The bonus features are Trailers, Bonus OVA (Tessa own short story on how she got drunk and needs to find her teddy bear), Producers showing you modern day Hong Kong and how they use it in The Second Raid and Textless Songs (Opening and Ending Theme).

The anime is better and darker than the first. I would reccommend this to anyone who seen the first season and wants a more intense storyline and more action to it. The replay value is high, so what are you waiting for? Buy it!