.....Very action movie story, and one can easily disregard that a slightly autistic kid would probably not be able to adaptively and dynamically fight so effectively in real situations - Who cares! The story was SO satisfying! (....Except that the ending scenes totally ignored the wonderful character of Moom, Zen's friend/adopted brother, and his central, pivotal role in the plot - I wanted to see the father acknowledge him, and the final contented scene of father and daughter include her friend/brother Moom, without whose dedication and persistence, none of this would have happened).
  ...Great acting by the three lead roles (Zen, played by Yanin Vismitananda, a.k.a. "Jeeja" Yanin, Zin her mom(Ammara Siripong) and Moom (Taphon Phopwandee); also the too-brief parts of Zen's father Masashi(Abe Hiroshi). The bad guy roles and actors were pretty good, too.
  .....[Hm, is her father's name a take-off on the name "Musashi" of the over-rated  "Book of Five Rings"? (from perspective of some who likes zen philosophy)?]
  .....Plotwise as I watched, I thought at first that the bad guy leader was going to abduct the mom and use her to force Zen to fight for crime and profit one way or  the other, but this was more about the simple theme of standing up to bullies and getting what's owed... I was also waiting for yakuza Dad to come in earlier, but that's ok, the ending fight made up for that late entrance.
  .....The [...] blog site says "There is a version of the movie, the Malaysian one, that has good English subtitles ...[from]...[...]. I highly recommend this movie if you're a fan of female martial artists."
  .....Some  have criticized that a couple of the fight scenes borrow choreography concepts from Bruce Lee films and Jackie Chan film (this one's locker scene). Who cares - consider it a respectful nod of inspiration which was woven into good fight choreography and story.
  .....Jeeja was trained in taekwondo (good foundation for elbow and knee strikes, kicks, leaps and acrobatic grace), and was 14 when she made this movie. The movie was by the same team that did Ong Baak, and Jeeja trained hard in muay thai techniques under Panna Rittikrai, plus some coaching from Tony Jaa.
  .....The only thing in the story that bugged me was that the muay thai teacher who was running the school next door would have eventually noticed the little girl imitating them daily and perhaps have taken her under his wing... but maybe not, if he was traditional in his perceptions and sexist in his values. [Hmm, will have to look up online if there have been well-known female muay thai practitioners in thailand over the years?]
  .....Anyway, I will now look for more films with lead roles by these actors - Jeeja as well as Ammara Siripong, Taphon Phopwandee, and Hiroshe Abe.
  .....This one is a keeper. Now I have to decide between getting the region-1, dubbed blu-ray version or the uncut, english-subtitled, region-2, (is it uncut? there's at least one version that is...), malaysian version (I have region-free dvd player, will travel :)
  .....ENJOY!