I already have every episode of  "E.R." on video, taped from television ( Channel Four, England ), but imagine my glee when it was announced that the first season was going to be released on DVD?! For my money, along with "Hill Street Blues", this show for the past nine years has produced some of the most exhilirating, thought-provoking, scary, funny and heart-warming moments seen on television. Who can forget "Love's Labour Lost", "The Healers", "Random Acts" and more recently "Lockdown", "Chaos Theory" ( I won't be looking at helicopters in the same way again! ) and the 200th episode "When Night Meets Day" ( at one point using split-screens as an exciting storytelling device ).
It's always a worry when production / distribution companies don't give ground-breaking cinema and television due care and attention when assembling DVD sets such as these, so I was glad when I saw a fairly extensive, but quality-rich, extras list to be included alongside the episodes themselves. The documentaries are very good, showing the origins of "E.R.", from it's inception as a 70's film script to it's development as a T.V. series in the mid-90's ( One can only imagine how heart-stopping "E.R." would have been if directed by as a film by Steven Spielberg. Instead he went on to direct "Jurassic Park" ). The commentaries are good as well, although I felt that "Love's Labour Lost" was slightly sidetracked by a bit too much self-congratulatory, back-slapping ( deserved by the eventual quality of the end product, but I know how good the episode was - tell me more of how and why you did it! ). 
My biggest gripe with the set appears to be the quality of the transfers of the episodes. For me it's a bit distracting to be watching a `pristine' digital presentation of a film or T.V. series, only to see what appears to be `print damage' on screen. As this could, in some quarters, be seen as a potential archive of this show, it would have been nice if the obvious care for "E.R." had been extended to this aspect.
Overall, a five-star presentation for a five-star series. It bodes well for the ( assumed! ) release of the next eight series of what  for me ( along with "24" ) is `must see' television.