I am an oddball. I`ll admit it. I actually liked  Highlander 2. The original Highlander wasn`t bad either. It was a great introduction to a intiguing concept for modern fantasy . The series offered us more insight to the world of immortals. In fact I thought it to be better than the movies. However, the non-existant movies sequals, and kiddie cartoon  were just trash!

Now, Highlander comes to the ever-growing popular Japanese animation. Along for the ride are the original writers for Highlander. What do you get? What The Highlander movies and series should have been!

Facing facts:

The original Highlander had a cheesy plot. Especially in this day and age when  expectations are so high. The 80`s sci-fi and fantasy movies were 80% cheesy. But boy were they fun! However, Highlander kept falling into the trap of making compleicated plots for a simple concept and forgetting that less is sometimes better.

Highlander: SFV dosen`t fall into this trap. In fact it was a good thing that the plot was simple. This time around the hero isn`t really a good guy with a code of honor and sword stuck you know where. I take that back. Colin is a character that you pity and want to strangle. Mostly, pity. Octavius is a villian that is charsmaic and everything the hero isn`t. However, this villian lost his mind to "perfection" eons ago. Simple, predictable, and not-enough villian time plot. However, it does have plot twisters that fit the story which gives it a couple of stars.

One thing I can give some props to is the music. The opening scene will make your jaw-drop.

Animation is another. Madhouse did an excellant job. The voice overs. To be honest it all really meshed together. Even the sex-secne meshed well with this story. Usually in anime some might find the sex-scenes to be vulgar. Not so with H:SFV. It is in fact a very tender moment. Besides, you can`t have a Highlander movie without a sex-scene. The same can be said for the violence. Which there is a lot of course.

All and all,  Highlander: SFV is a great addaption to the series. This is Highlander is in of its glory, and it was done right!