Don't Look Back is one of the best music documentaries, essential for anyone even remotely interested in Bob Dylan or twentieth century music. The importance and influence of Dylan and the film itself are such that the latter is arguably essential for anyone interested in twentieth century culture period.

The film covers Dylan's legendary 1965 English tour, historically significant as his last solo acoustic outing a few months before the infamous 1965 Newport Folk Festival electric set and subsequent tours with The Band. Anyone curious about his artistic progression, especially onstage, will be fascinated. Yet this is no concert film. We see various songs from various shows - all immaculately performed and most of it impeccably filmed -, but none are complete, and there is even some repetition; anyone expecting a performance video will be disappointed. What we get instead is one of the first cinema verite examples; the black and white footage of director D. A. Pennebaker and his small staff - captured with a few of the first portable, high quality cameras - was extremely influential. It offered unprecedented intimacy, showing a high profile artist/celebrity in situations the public could not have imagined previously:  in hotel rooms, backstage, in cars, etc. Such things are now clich&eacute;d, but this is essentially where it began. The movie shows sides of Dylan that few could ever have hoped to see and that most people likely never even imagined. Some are revelatory, such as a casual Hank Williams singalong; others are less than flattering, but all are interesting. We also get tantalizing glimpses of contemporaries like Allen Ginsberg, Joan Baez, Bob Neuwirth, etc. The most engrossing scene has Dylan working out a new song at the piano; one hardly ever sees a great work in creation, and this is worth the price of Don't by itself. Even those uninterested in Dylan will find much to like, as Don't gives a very good idea of how those on the mid-1960s zeitgeist acted, talked, and dressed. Also intriguing is the insight into how a popular concert of the time looked onstage and off.

Great as the film is, we must be careful not to take it as definitive. Dylan dislikes it, and it is easy to see why; he comes off as arrogant and portentous despite an always mesmerizing presence and spellbinding performances. His love of verbal dueling is clear, and it can be entertaining to watch him spar with the pretentious, presumptuous, and ignorant. However, it is hard not to sometimes feel sorry for his clearly surprised and occasionally unoffending victims and hard to admire his character as it appears here. His attitude is understandable to a significant degree; it would be hard not to tire of the same questions over and over, annoying faux-fans, etc., and his reactions are at least more lively and creative than most. We also must not forget that Dylan was after all very young and so wrapped up in prolific creative brilliance that it is remarkable he even had time for anything else. As for his claim that Pennebaker's selective footage gives a distinctly misleading impression, perhaps intentionally, we cannot know, but it may well be true. Don't is invaluable in any case, a warts and all peek at one of the twentieth century's greatest artists at a crucial time; no one with even the slightest interest in the subject or era can fail to watch it.