I've read many complaints about the "missing six songs." In reality, who cares! BIAB is an attempt, and a damn good one, to capture Green Day's reflections on the AI CD and tour. In other words, it is a documentary. This is a snapshot of the band at this point in time. If you are, as many of you have put it, a "Real Green Day Fan," you what take this package for what it is.

As far as the CD/DVD, it's pretty damn good. You get Billie Joe's insight on many of AI's most important tracks and you get to see the rest of the band reflecting on recording, touring, familym life, etc. You must remember that when an artist/band release a CD or DVD, in the end, it is what they would like you to see or hear. It is also, in the artists opinion, the most important and entertaining stuff they could find. Many of these complaints sound a great deal like the anti-Dookie rabble that permeated the Bay Area once Green Day hit.

BIAB's production and sound quality are awesome. While a concert DVCD cannot reproduce the concert experience, this DVD gives the viewer a great sense of being at a big time rock show. It was nice to see that GD have seem to accept that they are no longer the San Francisco club band that they once were, and take up the mantle of social conscience. While bands like The Clash and U2 have never been shy about the importance of their music, GD have always been reluctant to, in a sense, grow up. Well, the guys have grown up and into on of the great American bands of their time.

So, to those of you who are ready to label Green Day as "Sell Outs," remember your history! This has happened once before to this band and they proved all of their detractors wrong. American Idiot is a great accomplishment for GD and for the american music scene. At a time when questioning the powers that be is extremely unpopular, Green Day not only question but criticize the current administration, and in the end they made a great CD. I think one day when all of the 19 & 20 year old Green Day fans have hit thirty-something like I have they will l;ook back with fondness on to the fall of 2004 when those guys that made "Dookie" finally grew up and really had something important to say. While many of us will forget about GWB, we'll probably still be sitting in our cars, driving to work singing "Don't wann be an American Idiot!" at the top of our lungs. Green Day reminded me that music can still be loud, abrasive and have a point. I saw The Clash on the Combat Rock tour and U2 on Joshua Tree and I am glad to see three punks from San Francisco stand on stage and raise their middle fingers at the small group of billionaires that run this country. I'm not ready to bury Green day just yet.