The significance of this film--aside from the distribution deal which most press has drowned--is not likely to hit you until sometime after you've finished the film.  Be sure to take in the additional footage about casting & characters-this additional footage clarifies the line between "personality as actor" and "personality as person".  Since these are untrained actors, seeing this difference helps fill in the questions you'll have after watching the film.

While most films have the viewer connect the sub themes during the viewing, you probably won't make any connections here-- you probably won't uncover any hidden meaning, underlying theme, or symbolic allusions during the film.

You may walk away thinking you haven't seen much at all. Once you reach this conclusion-- the light bulb should turn on.  You realize the entire intent of the film may be to give you that monotonous life experience. There is no subplot in these lives, folks. Life is day to day. As your experience with the film goes, the characters' experience with life goes.

In the lives of these characters, the highlight of the day may be which fast food you choose for lunch. You repeat the same mechanical experience day in, day out, week after month after year.

The lack of a plot that causes inspiration or contemplation; the solemn and isolated feelings you may have during the film; the times you think, "What is this about?"-- The director has just given you a perfect simulation of the mindset and conscience of these characters. What are the character's lives about? Anything? Why do they go on? Or keep on?  What drives them? What is there to achieve? Is life just about achieving things? Questions the characters may ask about their own lives, and with lack of answers, another day breaks.

You realize that even in this monochrome life experience, humans are humans-- driven by desire, jealousy, and isolation. No matter how mundane the work or life experience may be, the basics of human emotion never go away completely.