"My Left Foot" is a well-detailed biography of author, writer & artist Christy Brown, born with athetoid cerebral palsy. Brown's life story is told in flashback form & is documented in detailed fashion; centering around Christy's struggle of dealing with the severity of his physical condition while, through the support of his loving & caring family (which included some 22 siblings in all, with thirteen siblings surviving), making himself rather well-known as an outstanding writer, painter & poet. Christy Brown was never regarded as a man trapped inside a prison of a twisted, contorted body, but as a man who could show an entire universe just exactly what he became capable of doing - giving an abundance of love, hope & faith through the genius of his talents. From boyhood (when Christy first snatched a piece of chalk from his sister's hand using his only mobile foot) to manhood (when Christy turned the world on its collective ear by never saying never & refusing to give up in spite of his condition, letting his masterworks speak for themselves), Brown's life is a worthwhile journey, & everyone, disabled or not, can profit from his experiences. With so much to offer, it's not hard to see why "My Left Foot"'s two main actors (Daniel Day-Lewis & Brenda Fricker) received Academy Award nominations for their outstanding work in one of the best movies of 1989. After seeing this film several times now, I often wonder why Hugh O'Conor's performance (as the young Christy) became overlooked, & didn't garner him any major hardware as a result. As a result of Day-Lewis' potrayal as the adult Christy, it was quite amusing that many people were convinced that the otherwise healthy actor himself had cerebral palsy. In fact, I believe it was through Day-Lewis' commitment & dedication to the role (even refusing to come out of character & eating lunch in a wheelchair) is a major reason why he earned that well-deserved Academy Award. Not at all far behind Day-Lewis & Fricker's performances, is the wonderfully touching portrayal by Ray McAnally (who died shortly after filming ended) as Christy's tough-as-nails father Paddy Brown. In conclusion, if everyone followed Christy Brown's example that he lived by in his forty-nine years spent on earth, the world would be a much better place in which to live. As for the features in this Special Edition DVD release, the reviews are a good read & the interviews are insightful. It would have been a real treat if Daniel Day-Lewis himself had been present in this Special Edition to give his account on Christy Brown's life story. Hugh O'Conor's interview sheds at least a little light on Christy's beginnings & gives this DVD edition more than enough credibility of making "My Left Foot" worthwhile & necessary for one's DVD movie collection. The video itself, although containing some noticeably visible dirt spots in places, is still a good transfer, & the audio quality is excellent. I can't say enough about this wonderfully brilliant piece of cinema (kudos to Jim Sheridan for his excellent directing & to Shane Connaughton & Sheridan for a well-written screenplay), so just pick up your very own copy of "My Left Foot" & see what all the fuss is about!