Where does one start with this well produced, highly-budgeted and deeply flawed mess? Perhaps summing it up as "The Cold War Thorn Birds" is a start. Ostensibly a "history" of the CIA (based upon a novel which I haven't read), featuring realistic locations and well-presented period touches, it ultimately failed for me by adding cringe-inducing "epic" miniseries flourishes while presenting a tangled and likely unknowable truth in a nicely-wrapped package.

Though it's easy to focus on the fact that the dramatic impact of this series is carried on the very pretty, but ultimately slight, shoulders of Chris O'Donnell, who handles every scene like a square-jawed action hero, the biggest disappointment is the overwrought script. Beautiful ballerina spies! Gorgeous blonde resistance fighters with heart breaking secrets! Handsome, sensitive dissident poets! All uttering romanticized lines as the music swells... and swells... and swells. True, O'Donnell tries with gusto to deliver lines like "I can't live without you!", surviving brutal beatings with a blood-choked "My Rank? My rank is GO TO HELL", yet there's not a moment where he's anything more than a cartoon. Even the usually-great Alfred Molina is allowed scene-chewing moments that bring Jon Lovitz' "acting!!!" schtick to mind - not a good thing.

The good? Well, it's great to see Michael Keaton again (remember when he was a Tom Hanks level player?) Production value is amazing here; they spent a lot on this series, and every dollar seems to have made it to the screen (though the soviet spy's CGI-rendered Brooklyn storefront constantly looked like "Lord of the Rings" meets "Grease").

But the bad? Oh, the bad is BAD! When a (gorgeous) Hungarian freedom fighter is reunited with her long-lost daughter in an Austrian refugee camp (yes, that was the setup), it was just plain insulting. Do we need one of the most bitter (and forgotten) moments of 20th century history to be nicely gift wrapped by square-jawed Jack leading a little girl to her torture-surviving mother? Pause a moment, friends, and think about what the inclusion of that scene says about our media producers' feelings for you, the American consumer, and how you want your "history" presented. Yes, I know there's a huge market for romance novels in the U.S., but why not just get Fabio to play a C.I.A. operative... in a poet shirt?

Essentially, O'Donnell is a cold-war era Forrest Gump, managing to find himself up to his neck in every historical turning point. His Company compadres grit their teeth as he's abandoned and endangered, the blame all going to those "politicians"; the C.I.A. in this case being true-believers, tripped up by the cowardly white house. (Yet wasn't it the C.I.A. that ended Democracy in Iran and installed the Shah, summed up by the now-famous memo stating "this is how you overthrow a country"?)

And while the first two episodes (all I managed) show a willingness to explore America's cowardly and two-faced attitude towards Soviet-bloc resistance - supporting and training dissidents, urging them to revolt, and then disappearing when the bullets hit the fan (something that resonates to this day - Iraqi Kurds, anyone?) it misses entirely the great American failing of the cold war: For all the evidence that capitalism-based, Jeffersonian democracy was what the average human being desired, for all our faith in our system, we allowed ourselves to support so many tyrants, finance so much misery, and allow so much bloodshed. When it came down to it, the cold war shows we had very little faith in democracy, and as once again we toss out some of the deepest foundations of that democracy, with torture, the shredding of our rights, and our belief that only non-ethnic Americans deserve the rights we are supposedly fighting for worldwide, a series like "The Company" should feel a lot more true and vital than this attempt comes close to.