Bernardo Bertolucci is essentially known for THE CONFORMIST and THE SPIDER'S STRATEGEM and is one of the definitive Italian directors along with Federico Fellini and Michelangelo Antonioni.  It was apparent that Bertolucci was building a fashionable name for himself near the fall of 1974.  As a response, he delivered an epic five hours and thirteen minutes to three studios waiting for an opus of massive scope.  Now, contrary to popular opinion, this is what they obtained.  His work in 1900 is both a voluminous allegory of the fall of Fascism and the rise of Solcialism in Italy between the year 1900 and 1945.  The film devotes its energy towards the relationship between two men, both boyhood friends which the Communist regime soon alters and almost destroys.  Robert De Niro and Gerard Depardieu are the two men involved.  Donald Sutherland is chilling as the pernicious Atilla...not to mention Laura Betti as his wife Regina.  Burt Lancaster and Sterling Hayden deliver bravaura performances as the two "patriarchs" caught up in the political turmoil near the beginning of the film.  If you get the chance to finish the film as a whole, it gives you the satisfaction after you finish an excellent novel.  Its epic scope only furthers its sweeping story.  It is a challenge, seeing that the film's narrative leaves it to the audience to contemplate the meaning.  Scenes of graphic beauty and splendor more than compensate for the more inadequate scenes (the ammount of these scenes are limited to an inutile scene with De Niro, Depardieu and an epileptic prostitute.  All of the other scenes are extremely well-done and lovingly accomplished.  1900 is a film not for everyone's taste.  For those who are fans of Italian history, this is never to be missed.  For those looking for a common epic to extinguish in your mind after its finish, do not bother.  This is NOT a film to be taken lightly.  The film's running time (the two versions available include a 4 1/4 hour version or a 5 1/4 hour version) may exhaust viewers who are easily perplexed from films of historical chronicle.  Bertolucci has also sprinkled many instances of the avant-garde movement into this film.  For those who can analyze and savor the ideas comprised with this, it will become one of the most unforgettable and lasting fruit of a filmmaker of genuine passion and rapture.  And then some...  Post Scriptum: The film is not available on VHS in the 5 hour version.  It is an enigma because, until last month, I did not know the film had been so well-known.