As always happens in cinematic history, a movie idea comes along that sets (and in some cases, even raises) the bar for other movies to follow if possible. "Final Fantasy - The Spirits Within" (Special Edition) is one such movie, following in the footsteps of such science fiction greats as "2001: A Space Odyssey", "King Kong", "Godzilla" and the mother of all the "trapped in space with a pissed off extra-terrestrial" flick, "Alien".

"Final Fantasy" takes the science fiction animated movie and places it in class so amazing that it's hard to believe you're watching animation at all.  My students tell me this was a video game first which would help my understanding of the plot; that may well be, and with me being "video game challenged", I can vouch for that.  But, as an art teacher, I can say that the way in which this movie was put together is truly something to see.  Visually, it is stunning, with the CGI images so realistically rendered, that you can see each hair on the characters heads, faces and bodies, not mention how the hair on the female characters swishes so beautifully as they move their heads.  I found myself thinking "hmmm...I wonder who does her hair?"

Specific physical characteristics aside, the movements of the characters also defy animated logic.  While a tad stiff (which may have been done on purpose, since it is a fusion movie of anime', typically stiff anyway, animation, and other techniques), the movie has a flow that overides any "pixelated" movement problems.  I mean afterall, if you wanted to see that much realism, why not just see a movie with live humans in it?  Eventually you forget that the characters are animated, and lending the very distinctive voices of such eloquent actors as Donald Sutherland, Alec Baldwin, Ving Rhames and Michael Ironsides to the mix doesn't hurt either.

The story, like the coloring is dark, gritty and a bit confusing (again, those of you who played the video game have a distinct advantage over the rest of us cretins who have no idea what the core of the storyline is really about). The use of space and inter-gallatic war as a backdrop is just stock material, but done well, giving you a familiar point of departure to hang the rest of the story on.

The characters are pretty generic; you've got the honery hero (Alec Baldwin), the kindly old scientist/ doctor (Donald Sutherland), the evil-doer (Michael Ironsides), the good ole boy sidekick (Ving Rhames), and the lovely female protaganist, a newcomer, whose name escapes me at the minute.  She, however has a secret; she has some connection with these spirit aliens that have the power to take over human bodies and/ or suck-up their spirit energy or something like that...I told you it's confusing.

All in all, it's a pretty cool movie for it's genre and one which almost anyone from ages 12 and up can watch and enjoy.