Originally released in 1988, this movie is one of my all time favorite horror flicks. Not because of gore or the usually included gratuitous bimbo nude shots in the other movies, but because it messes with your mind. It leaves you with the feeling that it could happen.

This masterpiece is from the mind of Wes Craven long before he was known for directing the Scream trilogy. Craven drew his inspiration from the book of the same name written by E. Wade Davis. Davis' book was his own true experiences penetrating Haiti's voodoo culture in order to obtain information on the drug, as well as the drug itself, which was said to create zombies. However, Craven did exaggerate scenes for the movie. What he didn't exaggerate was the atmosphere - the film was filmed in Haiti for most of the movie, until the film crew were warned their safety could no longer be guaranteed (Haiti was having real life unrest during the filming).

Bill Pullman, playing ethnobotanist Dennis Alan, does a very convincing job incorporating realism in to the movie and his character. He makes you believe what he is going through throughout the entire movie.

After a trip to Haiti, a large pharmaceutical company talks him in to going back in search of the elusive "zombie powder", which he learns, the company wants to use as an anesthesia. His timing couldn't be worse as he lands in time for the country's revolution. Dargent Peytraud, played by the always creepy Zakes Mokae, doubles as the chief of police and the region's leading voodoo priest. While hospitable at first to Dr. Alan, he soon becomes wary of this American's nosing around and questioning their culture. In not so subtle way, Dr. Alan is warned that his time there is over.

Once back home, Dr. Alan is troubled of the fact that he had left his friends in Haiti in trouble, not to mention what he may have brought back with him. Namely, Marielle Duchamp played by Cathy Tyson. Marielle was instrumental in assisting Dr. Alan. Having made up his mind, he dares to go back.

Dargent learns of Dr. Alan's return and is not happy. He unleashes his voodoo fury to teach Dr. Alan a lesson in meddling. But things don't go as planned. Good vs. Evil until the end.

I'm going to leave you hanging on a couple of points because while this movie is easily categorized as horror, it is also - in my opinion - a psychological thriller as well. It keeps you thinking, and its not predictable. After almost 20 years this movie still gives today's movies a run for their money.

And don't forget - inspired by a true story