"I got a good story, it's about a campus serial killer who murders eight students" At Pendelton students battle to make the best student film which will win them the Hitchcock award, who ever wins is basicly garenteed a place in Hollywood. Amy is stuck for a movie idea for her collage thesus, so when she gets a ride from the sucurity guard, she also gets and idea, to make a movie about a serial killer who murders are all based on Urban Legends. This seems like a good idea and it gets approved but as soon as she starts she runs into problems, bad acting, other members are pissed at her for stealing their genre, oh and a masked psycho seems to be killing off her cast and crew. It all seems to start when one student kills himself because of his low grade Amy seems to suspect something is wrong, the dead students twin brother also shows up to look into the sueiside more for he is convensed his brother didn't kill himself. Amy's crew seem to be getting shorter and shorter. Compitition is a killer, now it seems as if someone is killing the computition. Lets get something straight, I love slasher movies and I truely enjoy the new breed, Urban Legends is a fantastic entry into trendy slasher movies. I found myself jumping in my seat alot of times, John Ottman really knows how to scare his audence. The deaths where compleatly edge of your seat stuff, I for one loved them. I really enjoyed the amount of suspence there was in this movie, it was great.  On to the killer, although he/she looked cool I often found myself thinking that he/she looked like a big walking micro phone, I liked the idea of changing the costume around. I found pretty much all the charicters likeable, they all seemed to have their own personality. One thing that was great was the first death, that has to be the greatest death I've seen so far in a 90s horror movie. The rest of the kills arn't really gruesome but somehow this didn't seem like a gore movie, much more to do with suspence.  Over all I truely loved Urban Legends: Final Cut and I advise fans to go see it, it's a must, and if your not a fan of the first, see it anyway, it's like a different series. 10/10