Persona (1966)

 Bergman's Persona begins with many seemingly random images, including an eye being removed from its socket, a child crying, an erect penis and an animal being slaughtered.  The first three minutes of the film is a jumbled, cluttered and fast-paced sequence that appears to have no continuity whatsoever.  The genius of Bergman, as a masterful "auteur," is revealed as many of these same images conclude the film, only now they clearly have a significant meaning to the action of the film.  Bergman's ability to symbolize abstract concepts such as loneliness, abortion, rage and sadness in this confusing sequence clearly depicts film as art.  Persona, technically, visually and symbolically demonstrates the ability for film to be seen as a form of art.

 Throughout the film, Bergman uses many symbols to show the progression of the relationship between Elizabeth and Sister Alma.  Twice in the film, Bergman visually shows how Alma and Elizabeth have switched roles.  The "overlap" between the two women is first seen when Elizabeth enters Alma's room while she is asleep.  As Elizabeth is about to exit the bedroom, Alma jolts out of her bed and embraces Elizabeth.  As the two sit side-by-side, they embrace, as Elizabeth physically crosses her head over Alma's far shoulder.  The same sequence occurs toward the latter part of the film.  From these identical scenes, it is easy for one to conclude that Alma has become Elizabeth.  Alma and Elizabeth have switched roles; Alma has become the one needing help and Elizabeth appears to be the silent, yet attentive listener.  As we see later, the roles have changed when Elizabeth writes to the doctor that she has been "studying" Alma.  The most significant role-reversal between the two occurs when Alma has sex with Elizabeth's blind husband and pretends to be Elizabeth.  Yet, it is the image of the two beautiful  women intertwined that seem to describe the complexities of their relationship much more appropriately than Alma making love to Elizabeth's husband.

 The film visually shows us the emotions and mind-sets of the main characters.  In the opening sequence, Elizabeth is seen lying in a room that resembles a morgue.  There is no movement or sound (diagetic nor non-diagetic) and everything in the room appears dead.  It is quite startling when Elizabeth suddenly opens her eyes, as if she is suddenly awoken from a horrible dream.  She appears terrified and at the same time lifeless.  She does not make a sound, nor does she utter more than a couple sentences in the entirety of the film.  This one scene shows that Elizabeth is terrified as if she is keeping a secret.  The secret that is later revealed, not by Elizabeth but by Alma shows that Elizabeth has feared motherhood and it has caused her to become a mute.

 The film is largely about identity roles and how we perceive each other.  Bergman creates these unbelievable scenes that force us to question reality and how we perceive reality.  He also uses misrepresentations to depict false perceptions.  Initially, Alma believes that Elizabeth is good-natured and sincerely interested in her difficulties.  As the film plays out, we see that Alma's perceptions are wrong and that Elizabeth is in fact using her.  It seems as if Bergman is saying that it is truly impossible to really know someone else.  Our own projections, however false they may be, are largely the only way we think we know a person.  Bergman's most significant message of Persona tragically shows our inability to truly know anyone else from ourselves.