With the passage of time True Grit has achieved a somewhat "classic western" status but when first released it was slightly offbeat. Kim Darby talked in stilted language, Glen Cambell looked ready to burst into song at any minute and got the worst of the dialogue, eg, " Bibbs was a little Senator."  but the Duke furtunately was in most of important scenes and he filled the screen with his presence and brought his every fiber of his actors craft, that is, himself, to the story  and filled the screen. He was not to be ignored. You chuckled at him when he demanded it, or feared for his life. It was all the same, he pulled the reactions from you,which was needed to make a fine movie, aided by an inexperienced Kim Darby and a Greenhorn Glen Campbell.

The scenery of Colorado in blu ray is just spectacular and worth buying the disc even if you have just the regular DVD. The extras are mildly diapointing. There are a few words with a much older Kim Darby and the same with Glen Cambell, but both seem awed just to have been in a John Wayne movie. There is a nice spot on the town the movie was shot in an
And some words with the costumer who fit the Dukes eyepatch. Worst was the movie voice over by some ernest western historians who would get excited about the shape of the horn on the saddle or a sharp's carbine. But when it came to the Duke they would argue which movie came first, True Grit ot The Green Berets. Or maybe they would wonder aloud if a certain scene (the hut scene) was shot in studio or on location or what Henry Hathaway would have thought about another scene. Wellllll, guess what ? That's what we like to knowtoo and it appears that our western experts can tell us the difference between horses and saddles and guns but not so much about the actual making of the m,ovie. One notable exception I concede  there comment about  Darby's fear of horses which they then took care to follow that thread through the movie whenever a double was used. Too bad we never find out why she was afraid of horses or what the Duke thought of that.

But most John Wayne movies should be taken at face value, they are usually stories of good and evil, and redemption in the end. The better the writing, the cast, the location, the director, the better the picture. When all of the come together you get the AFI top movie of all time, a John Wayne western, The Searcers. True Grit had enough  similarities to The Searchers it to be it's nice guy cousin, without the dark side.

So get a blu ray True Grit and sit back and and enjoy the Duke at his finest, superb writing, blu ray worthy scenery , and the one against four fight scene at the end that had all Hollywood chuckling to themselves and saying,"there has never been any one ever  who can pull this scene off other than Duke Wayne....Go Duke !"