This movie stars Karl who is a mentally disabled man released from a mental institution after having served some years for killing his mother and her lover. Karl is a genius at fixing small engines so after having been released from the institution, the head of the ward gets Karl a job at a friend's small engine shop fixing up lawnmowers and the likes.

The movie plays out a bit unrealistically in my opinion for various reasons. First off, the entire movie is about Karl who befriends a boy. While that is fine, I don't think any sane parent, especially a single mother who works six days a week, would allow a mentally disabled man, who for reasons unknown to her was just released from an institution. In my opinion, any parent would not trust their child with a complete stranger, much less someone who was just released from a mental institution. After Karl having told the mother why he was released from the institution, she allowed the relationship to continue because she "knows he won't kill again."

Of course, this movie is placed in a small town, so perhaps people are forgiving there but I don't think any parent would be so open to allowing such a relationship to occur.

In any event, the movie plays out Karl developing this friendship with this boy. They learn a lot about each other, and a lot about life itself. The one problem in the boy's life is his mother's boyfriend, Doyle. The boys father committed suicide and his mother is left to work a minimum wage job. So they have it hard but get by and what makes it worse is the fact that she has an abusive alcoholic boyfriend.

By the end of the movie, Karl, in his mind, believes that for the boy and mother to be happy, he has to rid of them of this Doyle. The movie ends sort of like Taxi in my opinion. Karl comes in, kills Doyle in a horrific manner, then they never show whether or not the mother is happy or not. However, to Karl, they are and we'll never know other than develop speculations as to whether or not his actions did any good.

The movie was good. However, what really did this movie for me was this scene where Doyle invited all his drunken friends over. About midway through the night after heavy drinking, they're all sitting there in the living room talking about a band song. Suddenly, out of no where, Doyle goes ape. At first he throws a beer out the window, then he goes insane where he's giving this speech about everyone. It's so hilarious that at first it caught me off guard and I had to rewind it to see the full benefit of it. I just couldn't stop laughing and it was the most funniest thing I have ever seen in a movie in a very long time. This scene, while hilarious, also shows the frustration that the mother and boy have and the boy even goes crazy and starts beating on Doyle where he's then throwing things at him. It was hilarious.

If this scene did not occur, I probably give this movie a 3 star, but the scene has certainly increased my likeness of the movie. I would suggest watching this movie solely for that scene cause it's hilarious.