"Chaplin" starring Robert Downey, Jr. as the Little Tramp from the silent film era does something truly remarkable.  It tells the story of Charlie Chaplin, flaws and all, and still makes you admire and respect the man.

The film, covering a period of roughly 70-80 years, could easily have become overwhelmed by the sheer volume of the history, the characters, the events, but it flows so smoothly that never once did I glance at the clock.

Downey turns in the performance of a lifetime.  Nothing against Al Pacino, who won the Academy Award that year for "Scent of a Woman", but Downey was clearly shortchanged in nothing short of highway robbery in his loss of the big award.

His Chaplin is thoughtful, inspiring, flawed, creative, torn, troubled and a genius, all at the same time.  The real Chaplin's obvious gift for pantomine and entertaining is evident in this film, as well as his hardscrabble upbringing and his obvious liking of very young women as his paramours. (His last marriage, to the teenage Oona O'Neill, is shown as a real and affectionate marriage from both sides, and not the leering older man going after the young girl, as was the vast opinion at the time).

The film is chock full of talent, from Kevin Kline, Marisa Tomei, Moira Kelly, Penelope Ann Miller, Diane Lane, Anthony Hopkins, James Woods . . .a real "who's who" of the Hollywood community.  And yet, the film truly belongs to Downey.

The sets and scenery are beautiful and I loved seeing how Hollywood must have been back in the 1910s and 1920s.

If you are a Chaplin aficionado, you will embrace and enjoy this look at his remarkable life - - even if you aren't a Chaplin fan, you can learn why Chaplin was such a revered man in Hollywood, and certainly appreciate Downey's acting chops.  This film is proof of why Hollywood keeps letting this particular bad boy come back home.

See this movie to pay respects to Chaplin, to appreciate the always great Anthony Hopkins (in a small role) and the many other stellar actors in this film, but most of all, see it to awe over Robert Downey, Jr.'s impressive and poignant turn as one of the Hollywood Greats.

Highly recommended.