This is truly a masterpiece of Science Fiction and an interesting study in human nature with profound messages similar to those in films such as Fahrenheit 451, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Metropolis, Logan's Run, and Blade Runner.

The internal struggles of the characters (spirituality, self-sacrifice, temptation, suspicions, addiction, guilt, mastery of fear, human kindness, self-interest, resourcefulness, etc.) add a tremendous amount of depth to the story.  The guilt of the captain over her early impulsive actions and the penance she ultimately pays for her mistake are deeply touching and almost made me cry.  The stark landscape setting really allows us to focus on the characters - their personalities, motives, relationships, actions, etc.  The emulation of Jack for Riddick is beautifully done, very quickly and easily charming us to both characters.

The story is very well written, with the acting equally well done, showcasing the relationships between the characters.  The Riddick/Johns relationship is interesting, particularly their respect for one another: Some kind of "code of ethics" between bounty hunters and the convicts they pursue?  Also of note is the hero worship of Jack for Riddick, and the hero's subsequent defense/protection of her several times, in various ways, against multiple threats.  Additionally, the interplay between the captain and Johns (his manipulation of her, and her judgment mixed with empathy of him) really adds dimension to these characters and the overall story.

This is one of the few films I have seen that seems absolutely perfectly cast, particularly Jack who is difficult to distinguish between boy and tomboy - she is very believable.  The creatures/monsters are extremely well done, both their appearances and movements.  I think this is a much better story than the Alien and Predator movies, though I enjoy those as well.

The humor in this story is exquisite; the "looks clear" scene is one of my favorite bits of this movie.  Given the intensity behind Mr. Diesel's acting, it is amazing that he is capable of adding this type of "lightness" to his work. And the tension present throughout the film is tremendous.  We are literally "on pins and needles" as we watch the action from our observer position and instantly recognize the mistakes of the characters (delay, poor choices, etc.) leading toward their doom with no way to warn them or urge them to hurry.

I don't understand the term "cult" applied to this film because that seems to imply a select viewership; and I believe this movie has the power to please a variety of peoples, though especially fans of Science Fiction and human psychology stories.

I call this one of my "treadmill movies" (to watch while exercising) because the miles pass in a non-painful flash.  A special thanks to the many people involved in making this movie for the wonderful quality of distraction and thoroughly engrossing entertainment.

I am unable to choose a favorite between Pitch Black and The Chronicles of Riddick.  I am pleased they are remarkably different from one another.  I believe they are both equally significant in their contribution to great classics of Science Fiction.

J.H. Sweet, author of The Fairy Chronicles