This is an excellent movie.  So it's not traditional Bond, and it's certainly not the heaviest in the series.  Actually, it seems to lack depth in some places, it's kind of long,  and the plot seems to really deviate about 90 minutes into the movie.  But if you're looking for a fun,  not-so-involving movie, this is it.  
This one has an altogether  different flavor than the others in the series, probably because it's set  mostly in America (and 70's Harlem at that!).  I'd like to see 007 make a  return to the U.S.
Roger Moore, in his first turn as 007, gives a very  offhanded, lightweight, amusing performance.  Yaphet Kotto does the best he  can with the writing Mr. Big was given, and Jane Seymour (her first film)  is very good as Solitaire.  Julius W. Harris made a formidable Tee-Hee, the  henchman with a mechanical arm and a hook for a hand.  And I am still not  sure of Baron Samedi's importance to the story, but Geoffrey Holder was  very memorable in the role.
This is far and away the funniest Bond I've  ever seen.  The laughs start kind of slow, then they keep coming.  First of  all, to see James Bond, crisp, white, British secret agent, in 1973 Harlem  is a blast in itself.  He looks so out of place, it's actually funny!  I  think that was meant to look that way, though.  Moore did a good job at  playing a Bond who was trying not to look like he felt out of place, but  nevertheless obviously was.  Check out the first taxi scene and the  following scene where he enters the Fillet of Soul--this defines the whole  fish-out-of-water thing.  Inside the restaurant, Bond talks to his waiter  at his table, and as he asks him for information, the wall revolves with  Bond still at the table!  Watch how Moore tries in vain to get up from his  seat, and how the waiter, unfazed, spins on his heel and walks away  drinking Bonds drink.  If you don't laugh at that, you don't know humor!  
Then, a little over halfway through, there's a big detour in the film  itself.  Bond is in New Orleans with Solitaire, and one thing leads to  another and there's a big chase scene with 007 driving a double-decker bus.  Somewhere after that long comic chase, portly, balding, tobacco-chewing  (and -spitting), profanizing, pants-hiking, hillbilly redneck Sherriff J.W.  Pepper enters the picture.  Clifton James gives a hilariously classic  performance as the uber-stereotype, and the time he spends onscreen  (although irrelevant to the plot) is among the film's best.  From the  moment he strides up to the speeding Harlemite's car, cocks his hat, hikes  up his pants, and says that no one pulls one over on Sherriff J.W. Pepper,  you'll be rolling in the aisles, trust me!  What follows is another wild  (and even longer) demolition chase scene with Bond in a speedboat that is  humorous as well.
After it's felt like two hours, then there is some  action with Bond and Solitaire over a shark tank, with Mr. Big laughing at  their plight.  I thought it would have been more fitting to use the  crocodiles that were already in the movie instead of bringing in a new  animal, personally.  (Although it is interesting to note that 007 helper  Felix Leiter, who appears here, was eaten by a shark--partially, anyway--in  his only other appearance in "Licence to Kill.")  
I know I haven't seemed very kind in my review, and acknowledge that it has many plot holes and things.  But it is a very good movie, and very fun.  Just don't go looking for this one if you want the Bond that everyone knows.