Kelsey Grammer is not the main actor in this new series. The camera is.

Unfortunately, this is another TV series with good actors and story that is spoiled by
a camera that doesn't stop shaking up and down, left and right...
The camera is too visible, too interfering.

Many people don't notice or don't care  about this sort of thing. Many have short span of attention and actually like this sort of thing. But if you do
notice and don't like to watch a show where the  camera is wobbly all the time, then you might not enjoy this series and it would be better not to order it.

Boss is a drama about a powerful politician who finds out that he has a degenerative brain disorder and his days are counted. There is some of "King Lear" in it.
The first season has only eight episodes, what makes sense because I really can't see how this series can go beyond 20 episodes or so.

The disc have subtitles in English and Spanish.  There is an interview with the executive
producer and Kelsey Grammer. The executive producer grew up in London and studied in Cambridge, before moving to the US. His British experience  explains the choice for a  horrible, mediocre handheld camerawork that is  so typical of many BBC/British documentaries and TV series.

I watched the first episodes but I will watch no more. Kelsey Grammer is  fantastic  but the constantly shaking
camera  is too distracting and annoying . Besides, some images are clearly out of focus thanks to the hysterical handling of the camera.

 Some sequences, like the first sex scene or a scene where the mayor dreams with a horse are really excellent, really
very well done. The problem is that the camera is wobbly all the time and sometimes they have that BBC syndrome of showing confuse images, like the back of a chair,
that don't really add anything to the story.

It is really a shame because the story is really good, although some how "deja vu" and the images would be great if it wasn't for their constant and unjustified unsteadiness.

One good example of the idiocy of the camerawork is when we see the daughter of the mayor making a dramatic speech in  a church. The background music is Erik Satie.
It is one of those sad, slow pieces of his. It is there, clearly, to create an atmosphere of intimacy and drama but it doesn't work because the slow music just doesn't match with
the hysterical wobbly camera.

It seems that they use handheld camera, badly done, as a way of recreating some kind of "outdoor theatre".  The thing is: When was the last time you see a  theatre drama, outdoor or not,
where actors kept jumping up and down, left and right?

PS. I watched, in the end, all episodes. After all, I am not on my own.
It was good because I would  be in doubt if I should had watched the whole series or not, thinking about its
great acting, the good story and a cinematography that would be great if it wasn't for its gratuitous wobbliness.

Well, I am glad that I watched the whole thing.
It was during the  sixth episode that I thought: The way the story is going fast to an end, they will
do something implausible to keep the series going on.

They did. The last minutes of episode 7 are just unbelievable and lack  any kind of credibility. What happens in the end of episode seven
is not only an insult to people's intelligence. It also makes a farce of the whole series. The authors of "Boss" are as dishonest as some of  the characters
they show in the series.  What is going to happen in season 2? I couldn't possibly care less. I am definetely not going to watch  season 2 because I am sure that it  will be a continuation of the farce that season 1 became. Watching the last minutes of episode 7 was like watching a football match where, in the last five minutes, the referee changes the rule of the game.

But then things got even worse in episode 8. Another one of the main characters acts  in a completely unbelievable way and they also changed what happened in the past, like a good 1984 Big Brother.
The series shows the mayor of Chicago as  a monster who will do whatever it takes to stay in power. The authors of this series, like the fictional mayor  of Chicago, will also do whatever it takes to add more seasons to the series...

"Boss" is not seriousTelevision.  There is not really an organic story.  It doesn't have the coherence of "The Wire", "Sopranos" (apart from the last half season), "Mad Men" and other TV series that respect the public's intelligence, instead of playing "bread and circus" as "Boss" ends up doing.  Two of the main characters in "Boss"  didn't  behave in a logical way. What they did at the end of episode seven contradicted everything they did before. They behaved in an unexpected, absolutely implausible way because it was the only way to keep the series going on. The only character, the main one, who shows a coherent  behaviour that is not part of the forced continuation of the series is the camera because the camera never stops quiet, like a teenager with attention deficit disorder.