NO spoilers!

If you could only choose between Pitch black and its sequel, the Chronicles of Riddick, I would say Pitch Black is a more superior movie.

Are you a fan of monster sci-fi movies?
Do you enjoy a bit of dry humor?

If you've answered yes to both, you may like the movie.

Do you enjoy sci-fi films with character development, or do you think a story's main purpose is to tie up one great action/SFX scene to another?

If you say yes to the former, then def. give this movie a shot.

I enjoy this movie and PB gets frequent viewings in my house.

The plot/premise of the movie isn't groundbreaking, but the character development make for a highly arresting ride.

Often, the women in sci-fi/action movies are ornamental additions with the main purpose of sexing the men/ making the men look heroic.  I also hate how teen-agers and kids are written into most movies.  They're often too stupid, too cute, too naive, and the biggest sin of all-predictable, bland, boring.  Those elements often detract from a movie, rather than add anything to them.  In this movie, all the characters were important to the storyline and had a role aside from making the main character look good.  While this may disappoint some people looking for some T and A, I found this incredibly refreshing for the genre.  What could have been a boring and predictable waste of film was turned into something with complexity and depth.

Another element is the humor- most of the time, what passes for humor in most movies makes me want to bash my head against the wall.  The humor is neither insulting or stupid here- it's dry and a little tongue in cheek.  I like that Riddick's character has a sense of humor- and how he, at times, playfully gets pleasure out of the fear of others.  I enjoyed how the movie interspersed some of the more serious scenes with the humorous ones seamlessly and added dimension to Riddick's character.

Overall, all the elements of this movie works- it's damn taut like a drum.  It's not original enough to define a genre (that goes to movies like Alien/Aliens), but it's a great example of what the genre's capable of.  It's also a great example of how pacing and character development  can really transform something overdone (there's enough terrible sci-fi monster flicks to last a lifetime) into something that captures your attention and holds onto it like a rabid dog until the very end.