Congratulations to DT for having the GUTS to put this brilliant concert together. It must have been a huge concern to them that the orchestra would swamp, dilute or kill the precision of their riff and time changes. It is a testament to their professionalism that none of this happened and that can only have come through hours and hours of rehearsal.

I think "die hard" fans, of which I dont really think I could call myself despite my love of ther band, are missing the point a little if they criticise this DVD.

Firstly, I have absolutely NO complaints on sound ( JP was as clear as ever on my system, and for the first time, John M was as clear as a bell .. he is WAY better than I thought he was!) and the DVD editing was a lesson in how to record a concert. The set was perhaps a little overlit to ensure superior video, but that is a trade off you have to make if you want superb visuals.

Second, DT have always given value for money in not covering the same songs over and over again, simply at a different venue, a different year and with a few more wrinkles ... it was really nice to see something different. I did find the energy level sank a little during the early part of the second set, but that is perhaps because I did not know Octavarium. But the fact that the song selection was not old and stale made up for this.

The main point though, is that this was clearly FUN for the band to do. Not a word you immediately connect to DT. Score is not DT as you would normally see them ... probably never again ... but this was a chance for them to showcase their talents in a fun and challenging way, and JLB and MP were clearly having a great time. After 20 years, they deserve this "once in a lifetime" indulgent(?)performance

If I was desperately trying to find fault, my only small concern is that DT seem to be "smoothing off" their peformances and the raw, biting, brain churning challenge of their early work is being replaced by a more smoothed out, mature performance. Perhaps it is because they are become so GOOd, that everything just looks simple. However, I am not totally sure. At one point ( I cant remember which song it was ) Genesis came to mind and for a fleeting moment I could see Mike Portnoy becoming the new Phil Collins ... Shut Up, Ian, you FOOL !!. Whilst that "maturing" is a good thing for JLB and his singing is the best I have heard it, it perhaps reduces the sheer excitment of the music.... a bit more blood and sweat would have added that last star for me !

Once again, congratulations for the skill, vision, staying power and sheer guts to perform this concert, and thanks for producing a near perfect record of the event for us not lucky enough to be there.

DT have proved it .... length of hair is NOT a factor in producing superb music.