First, to really appreciate this film, you need to read the book. A lot of things will be lost on you if you don't, and you'll just end up writing a review that criticizes the wrong thing (like the time period it was set in - the novel was set in the 1940's; hence, the movie is set in the 1940's). Second, make no mistake, Lolita is the victim, not Humbert. Lolita is a child; Humbert is an adult, even though he is a sympathetic character. This movie is full of passion. There are themes of love, madness, obssession, the struggle of domination in relationships (because no relationship stands on equal footing - never happens, no matter how much you like to think it does for you). Hum and Lo constantly battle for the dominate role, and in the end they both lose. Lolita plays Hum like a fiddle, but she's only using what she's learned from him. She's 14 years old when this starts (12 years old in the novel), how much can she know (in the 1940's) about sex and older men? The allusions are powerful (the bobby pin clutched in Hum's bloody hand). The word play is brilliant (the first scene with Hum and Quilty on the porch, which is wonderfully filmed and edgy)and hats off to Nabokov for his poetic language. And I must say the most powerful scene in the movie is the scene where Humbert and Lolita reach the breaking point, becoming physically violent. Quilty's murder in the movie was true to Nabokov's novel: brutal and full of dark humor. Quilty died a violent death by Nabokov's hand, so Lyne gave him no less. This movie is eloquent, maddening, devastating. Even Nabokov's son praised this remake, saying it was superb and faithful to his father's novel. Lyne did a wonderful job making Humbert and Lolita and Quilty come alive. He couldn't fit all of Nabokov's many themes and word games into his film, so he pulled out the tragic love story, which is the heart of the novel. If you see the movie, read the book. If you read the book, see the movie. I do not make mention of Kubrick's film because to me it came off too up beat and too safe compared to the novel, but it was filmed in the 60's (not to mention that, though he credits Nabokov with the screenplay, Kubrick completely ignored Nabokov's script for the movie). Nabokov wrote a dark story and Lyne has done it justice. If Dimitri Nabokov called this movie "suberb," sticking closely to his father's novel, then that's good enough for me! After all, who would know Nabokov's work better than his own son?