A Brilliant scientist Kevin Bacon discovered a way to bring people back form invisibility. So Animals can disappear, and people have to use thermal glasses to see them. Then they get brought back to there regular normal phase. And Then Kevin Bacon decides he wants to try it. Basically Hollow Man is an updated version of The Invisible Man.  Hollow Man was called "I Know What You Did In the Lab this Summer" And that is pretty on the dot. Elizabeth Shue plays Kevin Bacons former love, and colleague. Josh Brolin plays Shues current love and colleague. I will have to say that Hollow Man is a little wittier then the completely routine slasher films such as Urban Legends: Final Cut. I'm not sure if it should have been a slasher film, but it turned out to be.  Bacon basically locks everyone in the lab and starts stalking in a high gore fashion, you know the usual impaling and slicing and dicing. To Be honest, I don't  it was intended to be a slasher film, but it turns out to be one. It has some good suspense and is a great deal Scarier than Urban Legends: Final Cut, but that isn't saying much though, since that movie WAS NOT Scary!!.  Hollow Man is a visual feast, and has some much needed wit to it. The ones being stalked are a little smarter than the 'stupid blond running from a mad slasher, even though he is catching up to her, and he is walking' but still make the same stupid mistakes.  Kevin Bacon gets to play a bad guy, instead of a good guy. I sincerely think he should stick to the good guys. It isn't he is bad, it is just a waste of his time., and talent.  Hollywood still hasn't figured out that nothing is scarier than everything. That probably doesn't make since so here is an example 'The Blair Witch Project' was 5 times scarier than Hollow Man and Hollow Man is 3 times scarier than Urban Legend 2. The Blair Witch had no killer, no stalker no witch. The sense on the witch was scarier. And Urban Legend 2 had the stalker, insulting gore, and bad acting.  Since Hollow Man was gory it wasn't to scary, but it did get a better review from me because there were times you couldn't see anything you only could sense the trouble, and that is a good thing.