I honestly like Oliver Stone movies.  He's a Natural Born Director and a wonderful storyteller.  He's innovating and very controversial, as a filmaker should be.  His JFK and Natural Born Killers were Supurb!!  That being said, I didn't expect less from Any Given Sunday.  Sure, it's controversial and filled with violence, drugs, sex, and money.  Tell us something we DON'T know!  Football is full of "prep talks" and "big money."  Sure it's nice to see and hear, but after that game, it means nothing.  The athletes played for years and yet their attention is ONLY focused on the big prep talk, that 15 minutes of energy filled tongue whipping and bam, the next morning they're doing what they're doing, irrelevant to what just happened and forgetting what they heard. So is true for this film.  Not only did I enjoyed the 3 hour experience, but I left the theatre psyched up.  The next morning, I can't remember what the hell I just saw. I rented and then bought this movie because of Mr. Stone.  I love his works and I can't leave out this one.  But I can't help feeling empty and slighted by this movie.  So much of it was MTV-type production: big and loud music, pretty sexy girls, drugs, and football.  The football scenes were second to the private introspective fight of the coach.  The coach: Brilliant performance.  Seen that, done it twice, go on.  That sums up Al Pacino's performance and character.  Go on to Cameron Diaz's tough owner character and performance.  A total non-believable yawner.  Ho-hum.  Major Leagues (the movie) was tons better.  At least THAT owner showed some nastiness and hate. The players are aren't acting, they are being themselves.  I can't see one iota of growth or change.  No sympathy given to any of those players.  And believe me, I want to feel something for them.  So what can we expect from this movie?  Big noise, yes.  Big football scenes, sure.  MTV-ish movie, definately.  A movie with heart, no.  A movie worth owning, no.  An Oliver Stone achievement, not worth mentioning.