Evil Dead 2, unlike its predisessor, manages to stimulate humor within the often shady realm of classic horror.  It's charactors express overacted emmotions, the monsters are obsessively intense, and the plot-line is too  short to be expressed in a complete sentence.  But you know what, that's  the beauty of it all.  The beauty to create a movie that mocks its own  gender.  Yes, a horror movie with an even greater tick.  The ability to  raise suspense, horror, and tension to a level of, almost, playfulness. Now  don't get me wrong, Evil Dead 2 is not a movie that raises even the lowest  form of phylisophical issues, but it is an enjoyable masterwork of nifty  cinematography and compelling suspense that is anything but classic.  The  acting is excellent, in which the actors and actresses seem to play their  obsene roles with a sense of dignity.  Some of the camera techniques in the  movie are arguably the best I've ever experienced. The possessed monsters  create even more tension and possibility, but not enough as to take the  story really seriously.  Every scene conveys an obviouse delight for  cinematic adventure.  More importantly, the hero Ash, a Rambo/Mad Max  charactor, remains the bulk of the film.  With his jerky wit (not too  jerky) and ignorant macho attitude, its no wonder why this original figure  holds such high standerds in the indi culture.  The other charactors (and  their relationships) adjust to the absurd atmosphere perfectly, with their  cheesy "horror lines" and cocky reactions.  The whole feature is  just a heap of creative genous, nothing more.  Anyone who has an urge for  destructive horror with a humorous beat, will be more than satisfied to  view every pixel this film has to offer.  The blood level is above the  charts and the action is magestically in-sinch.  Sound is average, as well  as the picture quality, but isn't enough to complain about.  I give this  movie full credit for occomplishing its purpose, however simple that task  may be.  See it to believe it folks; buy it to believe it again and again.  (oh, and good job Sam, you're a master in my book)