"Did you ever get the feeling that there's something bigger out there, bigger than you?" 
'City of Angels'is about an angel who 'falls' in love with a 'human', but is bigger than that. Director Brad  Silberling creates a movie about the essence of life. His tools are Academy  Award winning director of photography, John Sealeand composer Gaberial  Yared to score the movie. Enhancing this movie are two American icons,  Nicolas Cage and Meg Ryan and a Grammy rich soundtrack which features;  Alanis Morrissette (Uninvited), Sarah McLachlan (Angel),Paula Cole (Feelin'  Love), Jimi Hendrix (Red House) and the Goo Goo Dolls (Iris). 
The  celestial love story begins when Seth, Nicolas Cage, the angel, comes to  claim the life of a heart patient. Maggie Rice, Meg Ryan, is the patient's  doctor. There sult of this loss to Maggie is devastating. She begins to  question life itself, "We fight for people's lives...don't you ever  wonder who it is we're fighting with?" Witnessing her heartache, Seth  tries to comfort,console and heel Maggie, but he too begins to question  things. "She looked right at me." He tells his friend Casiel.  Leading us to believe he sees more in Maggie than her pain. 
Lovely lines  of dialog exchange between Seth and Maggie throughout the movie, but few  more powerful than their first meeting. 
"Are you a  visitor?"says Maggie.  "Yes."  "Well, visiting hours  are over."  "Why do they have that?"  Seth asks.  "What? Hours?"  "Doesn't it help the patient to be  visited?"  "Are you in despair?"Seth.  "I lost a  patient."  "You did everything you could?"  "People  die." Seth  "Not on my table."  "People die when their  bodies give out."  "It's my job to keep them from giving out, or  what am I doing here?"  "It wasn't your fault, Maggie."  "I wanted him to live!"  "He is living, jus tnot the way  that you think." 
 In Seth's attempt to help Maggie he creates a  confusing mess of feelings for her and himself. No spoilers here, but this  love story makes us think and wonder. 'City of Angels' is complete and  feels like home. Like many things in life that we take for granted... Seth  discovers, a sigh, a flower, blood, love and breath. Like a child they are  all new to him and they are for a brief moment new to us as well. 
Also,  like much of life we are always searching and questioning. Seth believes he  has found love and has a to choose between God and Life as a mortal. What  are your soul searching questions? This movie makes you ask yourself that  question. 
Through powerfully tuned cinematography and a deeply moving  score, City of Angels, the film, is allowed to whisper in your ear. Listen  to the rich dialog, harmonious character interaction and robust story  telling. It does it with wit and charm. Once seen and heard you will never  forget it. 
This brings to mind what I believe sums up 'City of Angels'  to me, emotion means the movement of the mind brought on by something which  affects it... 
 "Your mind and your feelings become to powerful and  you just can't contain it...and your body weeps." 
I was affected  and I wept.