There are two kinds of good movies:  the kind you want to watch multiple times, and the kind that you will be glad that you saw once.  For me, this is the latter type.  The movie functions in two ways.  First, it is a political statement about immigration policy.  The main plot of the movie involves a good person who is well-integrated into American society after having lived here for many years.  However, his family over-stayed a visa without responding to a legal notice many years earlier.  Moreover, he is Middle Eastern, which introduces a variety of modern political issues.  He is detained by the police by mistake, arrested and deported to a country he hasn't seen since he was a child, and where he knows nobody.  If you support open borders, you will cheer the criticism of a Kafkaesque legal system that makes a mockery of the inscription on the Statue of Liberty.  If you support restrictive immigration policy, you will be offended by a sympathetic portrayal of someone who is actually a criminal.

However, the film works on another level as well.  While the story centers around immigration policy, it is told from the perspective of an Economics professor whose life becomes entangled with the deported Middle Easterner.  More than anything, the movie is a character study of that professor, who goes convincingly from being a rather pathetic and self-involved person to someone who actually starts to care about other people and finds some joy in his own life through African drumming.  Yes, an Econ. professor becomes obsessed with African drumming.  It is rather amusing how seriously the movie takes this given the conceptual absurdity (if you know any Econ. professors personally).  However, the movie does make you care about a man who seems completely unsympathetic at the beginning of the movie.

While this is a very good movie, it is not the type that lends itself to repeated viewing.  The kinds of movies I can watch multiple times are either visually interesting, or have great dialogue.  There is little of visual interest here (aside from the absurdity of a middle-aged Econ. professor in a drum circle), and the dialogue, while realistic, is not engrossing for its own sake.  If you can watch subtle character studies over and over again, you might find this one appropriate for repeated viewing, but most of the art house movie crowd will appreciate seeing this once and only once.