With stimulating action and well-developed characters, I would like to rate the first season of Darker than Black higher.  Out of the two installments it is the best, but The Black Contractor suffers early on from its lack of explanation and episodic structure.  While a series like Bebop gets away with self-contained episodes, DtB is less successful due to essential questions being unaddressed, and a lack of a strong central antagonist.

 As we watch the first few episodes, a few queries raise their mysterious heads: what exactly "are" contractors?  Why do they exist? What's all this talk about "old stars?" Where did the Gates come from?  What is Hei's price?  Why is Kirihara so useless?  Some of these questions are answered, but others are just shunted aside to no effect but to confuse the viewer.

 The Black Contractor's 26 episodes  build characters slowly, but effectively, in a revelatory fashion via flashbacks.  Characters who are initially neutral and even antagonistic (Huang, for instance) become sympathetic in time.  Perhaps one of the largest early pitfalls is the lack of a recurring antagonist.  An action anime needs a strong enemy to maintain structure and sense of direction, and all of the early contractors are killed by Hei at the end of each episode.  This gives each episode a sense of self-containment which runs against the feeling that a larger story is being unveiled, and did not encourage me to continue watching.  Furthermore, many of the new supporting characters are also similarly neutralized, leaving the core four: Hei, Mao, Yin, and Huang, with Kirihara dancing in the background.  With the entrance of November 11, July, and others, The Black Contractor picks up steam and purpose, but the series lacks a charismatic villain throughout, and consequently suffers.

 However, I'm glad I stuck with it; The Black Contractor is a good watch, and one that will stand up to a second viewing.  If you're looking for smooth, dynamic action scenes, strong characters, and an overall intriguing plot, give The Black Contractor a shot.