If there were three movies I was asked to bring with me to Heaven before dying, Manhunter would be among them, no doubt. Forget about the 2002, low-level, totally tasteless Red Dragon, which is a mere commercial by-product of Manhunter. Some of the acting lines and dialogs are literally Copy-and-Paste sections of the original movie.

My brother strongly advised me to watch Manhunter one evening, in 1990, merely 4 years after its low-key release. I watched it and damn it! The movie got me hooked, nice and firmly. I started wondering about the reasons why I had been so impressed by Manhunter. I guess there is a mix of things here.

Most definitely, the most fascinating part of it is to follow a high-calibre, irascible cop's journey into the mental and behavioural depths of a high-level, highly intelligent, socially integrated serial killer. The two finally meet, physically and mentally, in a very obscure, twilight zone. The underlying fascination that one might feel while watching this movie certainly comes from the perceived fragility of the line that separates an intelligent monster from his hunter. Call it education, conscience or empathy, internal balance, strength or maturity: there is just something that will draw a dividing line between the two. And it's a fragile line! Intelligence without conscience creates monsters like the serial killer, Dollarhyde. Manhunter is perhaps not the first movie to address the theme of the serial killer's Behind-The-Scene personality, but it's probably the first one that addresses it so clearly, so close to the real world.

Another huge merit of the movie is to stress the fact that people can never be portrayed as simple black-and-white, 2-bit characters. Reality is always much more cumbersome, much more subtle. For all that they are worth, there is always some good in men. Like this: at once, the cop gets into an argument with one of his colleagues who is complaining about the lack of progress in the investigation. The cop turns back to his colleague in anger and shoots back a sentence that can be summarized like this: I feel pity for the little boy that became this killer. He lacked love and attention. But as a grown-up, I agree that he should be destroyed. Is this too subtle for you Jack to understand???. Another pathetic and disturbing scene is the one in which we see the killer laying still in his bed next to -will you believe it- his brand new date. The sensual woman inadvertently drops an arm on his bare chest while sleeping, and the killer, like the little kid he has never completely ceased to be, burst into silent tears. The viewer can only hypothesize about what goes on in the killer's mind and heart at this moment, but the emotion that the killer is still able to display has you wonder: even serial killers can cry.

Third, serial killers could be roaming the area around you without you knowing. After all, Dolarhyde has a managerial position in a media/photography-related company. He works with his colleagues just fine, he is capable of attracting women easily because of his smooth tone of voice, his gentle manners, his apparent quiet caring for others. He is just not one of these brutes that tend to be portrayed in larger audience movies. I guess this realistic paradox contributes to this sense of fulfilment, of accuracy that you?ll feel after watching it.

To conclude, I believe that if, like me, you feel that there is never enough time and material to study mankind, if you are looking for subtle thought material, if you like movies that mix fast-paced actions with intellectual races, then this movie is just right for you.