`From the sky will come the Black Fortress. From the Fortress will come the Slayers to devour the planet of Krull. Then shall a girl of ancient name become queen...she shall choose a king...and together they shall rule the planet. And their son shall rule the galaxy.'
For all of those people out there that were young when Star Wars was released, like me, I assume you also were drawn in at the video store by another fantasy action adventure movie by the name of Krull. It certainly had all the ingredients to follow on from the success of Star Wars. An indescribable monster and its army (the Slayers) attack the planet Krull. In order to stop the invaders, two hostile nations decide to join their forces by the marriage of Princess Lyssa and Prince Colwyn. During the ceremony, the Slayers attack the palace, kill both kings, wound Colwyn and kidnap Lyssa. The next morning, the wise Ynyr seeks and finds Colwyn. With Ynyr's help, Colwn gains possession of a magic weapon, a five bladed sword, and together they go on their quest for the indescribable monster's black fortress to free Lyssa.
The special effects however left a lot to be desired, although the gigantic spider that was as big as a house did salvage some respect. The acting however very rarely did, which is a shame as it starred some up and coming names, with Liam Neeson being possibly the biggest now. Yes the mentor to Obi Wan and Batman started off his early years as a criminal battling Slayers (sort of a Storm trooper type deal) under the control of the Beast.
Also Alun Armstrong appears as the leader of the band of criminals that help Colwyn rescue his bride. You may have seen him since in Braveheart, The Mummy Returns and Tim Burtons, Sleepy Hollow and if you look really hard you may even spot a young Robbie Coltrane as one of the gang members. Obviously all the younger readers will know Robbie from the Harry Potter films as lovable giant, Hagrid. And it wouldn't be a Star Wars-esque movie if it didn't have its comic relief, this time it comes in the guise of hapless wizard, Ergo. Very much along the lines of a C3P0 who claims to be great but inevitably is found behind a tree or at the back of the action. Played by David Battley, (also the school teacher in Willy Wonka) and introduces himself with `I am Ergo the magnificent. Short in stature, tall in power, narrow of purpose and wide of vision. And I do not travel with peasants and beggars. Goodbye!' and later states of Colwyn `He marches us towards a solid face of rock. The man has raisins in his braincase.'
But it is not just the actors that are of note, the Director, Peter Yates also directed Steve McQueen in a little movie called 'Bullitt' and has directed 3 actors to Oscar nominations: Barbara Barrie (Best Supporting Actress - Breaking Away) & Tom Courtenay/Albert Finney (Best Actor - The Dresser) and the writer, Stanford Sherman also is credited for many Man From U.N.C.L.E and Batman episodes as well as a small Clint Eastwood movie called `Any Which Way You Can`. James Horner who went on to compose the music for Titanic, Avatar, Braveheart and Troy also did the music for this film so you see, the talent was there for this to be an epic, and maybe if it had been released before Star Wars then maybe it would have claimed more plaudits, but it wasn't and it didn't but it is still well worth a look, if only to see the young actors before they were famous and probably the most coolest of fantasy weapons, the Glaive. Yes I almost forgot the Glaive, a spinning blade that can only be retrieved by the chosen one, pretty cool and something as a kid playing in the schoolyard I imagined I had when all others had imaginary lightsabers!