When I was a kid back around 1980 or so, I got my mom to drop my brother and I off at a SciFi/ComicBook convention in Austin for the afternoon.  After browsing for a while we went to a conference room where they were screening movies.  My brother and I sat down and watched LaserBlast that afternoon, and it was a seminal moment in my life as a scifi fan.

 Many of the reviews here poke fun at how campy this movie is, but you have to take into account the time when this movie was released.  Granted, Star Wars did come out at roughly the same time as this movie, and people might be tempted to compare this movie to Star Wars, but that would be a mistake.  Star Wars would forever change the way scifi films would be made from that point on, but not all movies back in the late 70's had Star Wars' budget or resources; Star Wars was in another league and had the benefit of George Lucas and Industrial Light and Magic.

 This movie was probably the last movie of its era, a movie that came from the pre-Star Wars mold.  The early scifi influences are plain to see here:  the opening sequence in the Arizona desert has the old Star Trek wind effect in the background, and the aliens are filmed in classic stop motion animation ala Ray Harryhausen.

 There are a lot of other cool tidbits in this film: the heavy laser rifle that fits over the arm and allows for cool crouching poses, the crystal necklace that allows the gun to fire and controls the mind of whoever wears it, the numerous explosions filmed from multiple angles, the way the aliens wave their hands over the controls of their ship to make it turn around, the "men in black" character (years before MIB became popular), and even the cast.  You'll recognize a lot of faces in this film that later went on appear in other movies: the geek Froggy (the awesome Eddie Deezen), the doctor (Roddy McDowell), the MIB agent (Gianni Russo), the fat bearded cop (Dennis Burkley), and of course the main character (Kim Milford).

 When you watch this movie don't compare it to modern-day big budget scifi, but rather look at it as a nostalgic blast from the past with - yes - some great camp value.