This is pretty much where I started.  For some reason, I feel like I'm mostly familiar with Season 2 episodes from when I watched Star Trek back in college over ten years ago.  In my memory, a bunch of Season 2 episodes were at the apex of my "Star Trek" experience.  This tells you, of course, that I'm really not a Trekkie.  But now that we're watching episodes regularly (thanks to Netflix) we decided to start at this very season (because I do remember some highly cheesy Season 1 episodes as well, so we bypassed that one).

Here's how I (a non-Trekkie) break down this season's episodes:

CLASSICS:

"The Measure Of A Man" - For a long time, my favorite TNG episode.  The courtroom dialogues is riveting, and the emotions are boiling over because the stakes are high.  Stewart, Frakes, and Spiner are at the top of their game here.  Don't miss it.

"Q Who" - Ah, my favorite guest star/character.  Q introduces the crew to the Borg.  What a plot.  Picard's last trifecta - imploring Q to rescue them - is masterful.  Whoopi's Guinan is fantastic here.  She's so good you can forget her other roles.

TOP NOTCH:

"Elementary, Dear Data" - An interesting episode in that really probes Data's limits and introduces us to the character of Moriarty (who somehow becomes self-aware on the holodeck).  May sound hokey, but it's well done.

"Unnatural Selection" - Actually quite tense.  I didn't see how they'd get out of the plot complications in this one.  Muldaur as Pulaski is quite good - I may even prefer her to Crusher.

"A Matter Of Honor" - Intriguing watching.  Interesting exploration of culture clash and loyalty.

"Contagion" - Tense.  It's worth your time.

"The Royale" - I actually liked this one, although it has its detractors.  The basic idea of the Royale (I won't spoil it) is not much on its own, but I wondered how they'd get out of it.

"Time Squared" - Very tense, especially as the future Picard they pick up gets closer to the present.  I generally don't like time travel issues, and this one is no exception, but there was enough creepiness (as well as good acting by Stewart) to keep me hooked.

"Pen Pals" - If only for the Prime Directive discussion.

"The Emissary" - Valuable Worf development.

OK:

(All the other episodes not listed above or below.  Most of these I could take or leave.)

YUCK!:

"The Child" - The whole premise - yuck!

"Up The Long Ladder" - Give me a break.  The whole resolution to the problem is so contrived, it's vomit-inducing.  It's just yucky.  Skip it.

Overall, a great season.  If I recall correctly (and the other reviews are right), it was this season which saw "Star Trek" starting to shed some of the holdover cheese and contrivances.  THAT is a good thing.