This documentary spans a multitude of time and opinion. At points along you wonder where it's taking you. I feel that the director was honestly trying to give us an unbiased account of Vietnam but the overwhelming feeling is one of Anti-War or, more specifically, anti-Vietnam. Having said that, anti-war is by no means a sign of weakness or stupidity.

The unbiased attempt of the documentary comes from many opinions given by men who were there. Some of them so pro-war they make John Wayne look like Gandhi, some who started out Gung-Ho but due to what they did and saw now reflect very ruefully about their time in country.

In the middle of all the political posturing and hateful rhetoric of the time were the Vietnamese people. Focus of the documentary changes via editing from the words of "Sgt Rock"'s way to win to the villages destroyed by bomb after bomb from American planes. Peasants show us where their homes used to be, where their mothers, sons, daughters died in the raids. All the time these people talk to us they retain that Asian grace and resolve. Some of the peasants interviewed look so void of hope and so full of despair one has to wonder was it worth it to them? North Vietnamese slaughter or American slaughter?

I feel the documentary did a good job of putting a very human face on war. Pilots flying around dropping bombs never see the victims and, carpet bombing villages is not precise but, the term "Acceptable loss" has a way of sweeping friendly casualties away neatly. It was unfortunate to me that America had chosen to support one of the most corrupt governments to justify it's anti-communist, cold war doctrine.

My sentiment going into the documentary was already swayed towards an anti-war stance. Not because I'm a peace loving hippie but more that wars are usually started by a few people at the top who don't like each other but they aren't always the ones getting slaughtered. Recently we see more and more of this as our nation's youth are sent thousands of miles away by people who have never suffered a day in their lives. Coffins draped in flags coming home to parents are no reward for the loss of a child due to politics.

It's a long documentary but if you sit quiet and listen you will come away feeling differently and it will stay with you for a while. America didn't understand Vietnam or its people. It had no idea what it was getting itself into. The documentary attempts to point all this out and, the end of the doc is very telling of this as we watch a parade being heckled by Vietnam Vets both crippled and healthy demanding jobs not parades whilst the jeers and cat calls of the marchers in the parade and the crowd rain down on them. We even turned against our own.