In a wacky B-movie Hollywood of the mid 1950's, Johnny Depp is Ed Wood, a young, goofy optimist who dreams of directing movies.  Despite his fondness for wacky horror and sci-fi stories (and having NO talent whatsoever), Wood wiggles his way into Hollywood, and cranks out one cheesy horror/sci-fi movie after another.  Ed sees his meal-ticket when he has a chance encounter with horror film legend Bela Lugosi; now an elderly, desperate morphine addict.  Quick for his next fix, Lugosi goes to work for Wood, and the two begin an actor-director partnership together.  A sweet, gentle (and probably fictionalized) bond forms between Wood and Lugosi.

Johnny Depp is so brilliant in this role, he really captures Wood's naive optimism.  This may also be the only film where you actually see him smile!  However, it's Martin Landau (as Lugosi) that gives the story its biggest jolts of energy (or perhaps it's just hearing old people swear that always make me laugh).  Landau easily steals the movie, having won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for this role.  What ultimately makes this film a masterpiece is the impeccable reproduction and costume design of the 1950s, as well as the crisp black-and-white cinematography.  It really transports you back to those clean-cut, wide-eyed days.

The entire cast is incredible.  The music score by Howard Shore is perfect for its period, making much use of the theremin.  The detail to which this movie goes in re-creating Wood's movies are amazing, but you'll also be laughing at how awful they were.  If you love 1950s B-movies, this film will double as a documentary of how those silly films were made back then, the film functions quite well as a time warp.  "Ed Wood" may be trying to tell a story of how it FEELS to be in the middle of the 1950s more than anything else, and that's what draws so many to the film over and over again.  Like "American Graffiti," "Stand By Me," and "Peggy Sue Got Married," this film perfectly captures the images, sounds and attitudes of the era it idealizes.

If you have high expectations whenever you purchase a DVD that's labeled "Collector's Edition," you may be mildly disappointed here.  There are some behind-the-scenes goodies on the disc, but they are all short in length.  The film transfer and sound quality are exceptional, though.  There are also commentary tracks as well.