Those who choose to give up their freedom to gain security often find that having done so, they have sacrificed the former in vain not to gain the latter.  The dark world of MINORITY REPORT explores this theme in both visuals and in a vision of justice that leaves the term bereft of the meaning with which we usually associate it.  Director Steven Spielberg abandons the sense of wonder that usually accompanies his epics.  In JURASSIC PARK and ET, Spielberg allows his inner child to present a vision of humanity that allows his cast to face danger knowing full well that the danger has a wonder indelibly etched within.  In MINORITY REPORT, however, he harkens back to one of his earliest efforts in DUEL to show how one man can be beset by a sneaky violence totally beyond his power to control or to predict. 
Tom Cruise, as policeman John Anderton, is a composite of many roles that he has done over a long career.  He is dedicated, action-oriented, smart--and flawed.  When his child is kidnapped and killed, he takes to drugs to forget the pain and guilt that he carries for allowing it to happen.  Immediately after his son's death, a scientist discovers a way to use human precognitive abilities to spot a murder before it happens, thus allowing policemen like him to arrest them, but before the crime actually occurs.  This police state power of course comes into conflict with the ACLU, who in one all too brief scene, argues that it is simply wrong to do that.  During the course of his investigation, Cruise as Anderton, comes too close to the hidden flaw in the entire setup--that the ability of the precogs is not as infallible as trumpeted, and he is set up as one who plans his own murder and thus must be apprehended by his own men.
Now there is nothing inherently wrong with taking the basic premise from the story by Philip K. Dick, but Spielberg, in his attempts to imbue his film with a gloominess not present in the story presents a movie that is at once a darkly spectacular treat for the eyes if not a test for the patience of a viewer who soon enough recognizes the oldest of tricks in a detective thriller: the placing of false clues and even more false clues to keep the viewer involved.  As I watched, I tended to overlook the grimness of the photography. Much of the film seems to have been shot with a filter that screened out any color brighter than light tan.  The spectacular car scenes that show Anderton plunging from one vertically placed vehicle to another while at supersonic speeds are a sight to behold.  Then there is the acting of both Cruise and Max von Sydow as the police chief, both of whom bounce off each other at all the right moments.  There is a father-son subtext between them that gives their relationship a resonance not seen since Dustin Hoffman had his molars examined by Sir Lawrence Olivier in MARATHAN MAN.  MINORITY REPORT is the sort of fine science fiction film that thrills the first time one sees it, but I suspect that its witheringly dark grubby underside will prevent one from wishing repeated viewings.