The battle of Agincourt, the subject of "Henry V," marked the rise of the longbow and the last stand of armored calvary. The English longbowmen targeted the French horses, and once the horseman was on the ground, he was all but helpless. Thus, 12,000 English defeated 60,000 French (if the play's figures are accurate). Branagh's version is not as true to this historical detail as the earlier Olivier film; Frenchmen in plate armor leap into the saddle, and the English engage the French hand-to-hand as soon after firing their first volley. 
Nonetheless, Branagh's version is dramatically unparalleled. He shows strikingly that those 12,000 arrived at the field after marching for weeks, downtrodden and diseased, drenched and dreary, each man wishing he were home abed. With the scene thus set, Branagh shows off the improbability and power of the dramatic juggernaut that is Shakespeare's "St. Crispian's Day" speech. Patrick Doyle's excellent, relentless score (which itself ranks among the best film scores of the last thirty years) and Branagh's inspiring delivery also propel the speech forward with locomotive force. By contrast, in Olivier's version the sun is shining, the English tents neatly pitched, and thus his Crispian's Day speech has all the dramatic urgency of "Tally ho anyone?"
The cast of Branagh's Henry V is stellar. Derek Jacobi is powerful as the Chorus (his opening speech is electrifying and sets the pace of the film, like a stampede of wild horses). Brian Blessed (who you might remember--trivia moment here--from the 1980 "Flash Gordon," which he, Max von Sydow, and Timothy Dalton would all probably rather forget) brings impressive gravitas to the role of Exeter. Emma Thompson, Judi Dench, Ian Holm, Paul Scofield, and Christopher Ravenscroft (excellent as the herald Montjoy) round out the supporting cast.
Wait to buy a DVD edition worthy of this film. The video and audio, while adequate, are somewhat pixilated and less than clean. Most disappointing, the disc contains no additional features (beyond the bland theatrical trailer). By contrast, the Paramount release of Branagh's second film, "Dead Again" contains Branagh's full-length commentary on the production's innovations and, unlike many such self-congratulatory commentaries, also its flaws. Branagh's comments on Henry V, his first and most artistically successful film, as well perhaps as an interview with or commentary from Patrick Doyle or any other interesting dramaturgical materials, would greatly enhance the DVD. Five stars for the film. Two for this DVD.