Right off the bat, let me say that all of this stuff has been widely available on DVD and VHS for years as bootlegs. There is nothing new here and KISS' truest fans will have seen it all before. That's why the early  pre release reviews are legitimate. Also, if you're not into KISS, you won't like this set and there's no need for you to comment. Please move along.

Now, I actually bought this at WalMart at Midnight for the LARGO 79 Bonus Disc. That disc is booty as heck and it looks just like every other available version I've seen. Still, I suppose it's nice to have it "Official".

As for the set proper, well, it's not as exciting as the volume one, mainly because it explores KISS' "Fat Elvis" and true fan years. It's the years where they became cartoon caractures of themselves and lost what it was that they wanted to achieve (mostly because they achieved it and didn't know where to go theatrically or musically).

Disc one opens with a short NBC News clip entitled "Land of Hype and Glory". It's interesting, but standard stuff. No great shakes. The Meat of Disc One is "KISS in Attack Of The Phantoms", the Euro cut of "KISS Meets The Phantom Of The Park". It's presented in it's 1.85:1 theatrical aspect ratio and is enhanced with a stereo remix (the 5.1 mix is just a bloated version of the Stereo mix). It is a better movie in this form than the TV version, but it is in no means a good movie. Still, I wouldn't say it was quite the embarassment the ROCK hipsters out there would have you believe (Ringo Starr/Harry Nilsson's "Son Of Dracula" Anyone???) as it it very watchable in a Godzilla sort of way. The image is sharp and the color, spot on. It looks better than it probably ever should have. The commentary track features some of the cast ofthe film, but surprisingly, nobody from KISS. Rounding out Disc One is the legendary Halloween 1979 Tom Snyder interview. It's legendary because Ace Frehley is loopy as all get out.He joyfully Disrupts the proceedings with his intrusive comments and loud, infective laughter. It's a wonderful TV moment and shows just what's missing from today's TV talk shows.

Disc Two shoul probably just be called the Australia/Europe Years, since that's what the bulk of the disc entails. First, there is a promo video for "Shandi", a huge hit in the land Down Under. Then, there is a CNN interview with Peter Criss without makeup and his back to the camera; as if here were in a witness protection program. This is followed by some TV promo appearances and a documentary of the Australian tour. KISS does conquer Australia with an incredibly tenatious live set. By this time, Eric Carr had replaced Peter Criss on Drums and it seems to be the shot in the arm KISS needed in it's live show. They are absolutely vicious here and this concert is a highlight of this DVD box. Rounding out Disc Two is a Friday's appearance promoting "Music From The Elder" and a Top Pop appearance for "I Love It Loud". At This point KISS was reaching it's creative nadir and this disc kinda leaves the virewer with a cliffhanger. "Will KISS pull itself out of it's creative slump? Tune In Next Week!!!"

Disc Three finds KISS with Vinnie Vincent replacing Ace Frehley in a concert at Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. The concert is lively and features Vinnie Vincents only real live video footage of him as the "Ankh". Shortly afterwards they would be Unmasked to the world on MTV, shown here on this disc. Freed of their makeup, KISS finds themselves transformed as a no frills, straight ahead rock band and their energy is amazing. Without the makeup, pyrotechnics and stage props, KISS makes themselves the show. The energetic performances from Portugal, The Spectrum in Philly and Detroit makes one forget they ever wore makeup. Their second wind kicks in and finds them completely triumphant with their "Hot In The Shade" tour in Detroit. Their second wind has kicked in as Bruce Kulic replaces Vinnie Vincent. The Third disc closes with a "Day In Rock" Clip and the Music Video for "God Gave Rock and Roll To You".

If there's any real disappointment with the set, it's that there're too many years to cover on 3 discs. There's a lot that I would've loved to see that did'nt surface legitimately... but at under $30 most places, there's really not too much to complain about.

The Sound quality is uniformly good (save for the Largo Bonus Disc, which is muddy as heck). The set has 3 audio tracks: 5.1, 2.0 and commentary. The video quality is a marked improvement from the first volume; which left a lot of fans grumbling that the bootlegs looked better.

Lastly, I'd like to point out the issue of language. Some off color between song patter has been mixed out during the Detroit "Hot In The Shade" footage and it makes the show much less satisfying. I mean, yeah, I know kids are probably watching, but you guys DID say it live and you know kids were there, too. I mean, first it's "Don't Drink And Drive" before "Cold Gin" and now it's self-censorship. What's next, KISS?

Oh yeah, regardless of what Amazon says, I, Terry Thome, Reserve all rights to this review. I wrote it. It's my property, not theirs.