Coach Carter tells a great story and provokes a lot of thought about why some cultures consistently fail.  The film itself was good, but given the subject matter, it could have been a 5 star film.

Samuel Jackson is very convincing in his role, and the young men who act as his players are well cast.  This film had a lot in common with Hoosiers, which is the best basketball film ever made.  Like Hoosiers, you have an inspiring story with twists and turns.  How you feel about the movie beyond that depends on what your personal preferences are.  If you like basketball (unlike the Amazon.com official review shown above), you will enjoy the well-choreographed basketball sequences.  If you are in to rap music, you may like the soundtrack.  My problem with the film is that I'm not a big rap music fan.  Also, I don't feel the need to hear profane ghetto talk thoughout some of the movie.  The movie seemed to be aimed at young rapsters, which is fine. Since I'm not a young rapster, I didn't enjoy some aspects of the movie.  Nonetheless, this was a good movie over all.

This was not a movie for those under 13, as the rating indicates.  The language is poor, there are some sexual scenes, and the abortion issue (a distraction to the film) is present.

The movie does bring up the question of why some cultures fail.  I liked the fact that this film made it a cultural issue instead of a race issue by having various races on the team and at the school.  We see that some cultures simply don't understand that academics are required to get ahead in the modern world.  This total lack of an educational emphasis keeps some groups behind, even if there is no racism.  The ray of hope is Coach Carter.  He refuses to believe that his kids can't do it.  He chooses to believe that the kids can do it and that he, one man, can make a major difference.  This segment of the story is so inspiring that I wish this film could be shown to all ages.  However, maybe the message will reach young men and women who can still make a difference in their own lives.  History has shown that individuals from poor cultures can make choices that lead them to become successful, regardless of the obstacles.

The DVD has a story on the real Coach Carter that is worth a look.