I couldn't wait for this film to end but let out a cry of injustice for myself at the upbrupt ending which left the viewer ( me, my partner decided to nap instead of finishing this dreadful film )intentionally without resolve. Never having read the book I knew from the get-go this was adapted from a novel as the vibe of storybook New England setting is the usual set up before the "tragedy" Unfortunately I dont think this mirrors any scenarion from real life. If it does then I can't blame Mark Ruffalo for running from the scene of the "crime" - which isn't a crime , its an accident, unless of course you leave the scene which he does. He's a lawyer btw, I guess he knows what the law is permiited to do to perpetrators of "accidents", especially a man , a loser who is already disenfranshised by society because he's a divorced dad hanging on to dignity by his fingernails. The reaction of the victims family - specifically the dad, is not realistic- SPOILER - ok, so the kid with the fireflies is playing on the side of a busy road at night and happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time - and in a flash bingo , he's gone, dead in a heap. Since the driver panicked and didn't "own up", he's now being pursued as "that murderer is still out there" Parents of children taken by senseless carelessness have a right to feel rage, but to the point of buying a gun and attemting vigilante justice?, Kidnapping and attempted murder? I dont think so. If this EVER happened in real life you'd be reading it all over the newspapers and Mark Ruffalos character would never see prison time. the whole tone of this movie was unrealistic, cliche and self righteous.The acting and dialogue I have no problem with. When are viewers going to stop eating up this stuff being served to them as entertainment?- surely this is a film that "makes one think", but it makes me think- why would anyone think this story has value? Even the redemtion aspect is a bit cloudy and unrefined. Save your time and money, do yourself a favor and trust me .