I love Justified so much that I ordered both seasons for my daughter and for us. I'm waiting for Season 2 to be shipped, from Amazon. You really need to have Season 1 and see it first, so you know who's who in Season 2. Both seasons are terrific and you won't be sorry you got them. We plan on watching both seasons during the summer months, when Season 2 is done :(. It's hard to say which season is the best, because they're both great. Season 2 is so fun, with all the rednecks and the stupid things they do. Oh and lets not forget the Bennett clan and their pot growing business. I'm so looking forward to Season 3 and can't wait till it starts again. I love Timothy Olyphant as Raylan Givins, 'modern day' US Marshall. Timothy is the best actor for this part, just like he was in Deadwood, when he played Sheriff, Seth Bullock. Tim is PERFECT for this type of role. LIKE, He really makes you believe he's drinking that ole moonshine {I loved that scene, with Boyd, in Season 1}. Justified is like no other show on TV. It's "THE BEST"! I would give it 10 stars, if I could. Justified keeps us laughing, with each episode. There's always something funny said or going on. I love Boyd Crowder too. He and Raylan make this show. Justified is full of action, drama and laughter. It has very little sexual content, nothing explicit {so far}. There is some language, but nothing too bad.. NO F bombs. Season one starts out in Florida, where Raylan is a US Marshall there, until he's transfered to Harlen, KY, where he grew up. This is where the FUN starts, when he goes back home. Raylan's X wife, Waynona and her new husband are there. Then there's Boyd Crowder, whom Raylan grew up with. They worked in the coal mines together, at age 19. Boyd was a powder man in the mine and he likes to blow things up, as he say's "Fire In The Hole". Now those two are back together again...only Raylan is a US Marshall, who is always justified when he shoots someone and Boyd is just good ole Boyd, trying to straighten out his life. Gotta love that Boyd!! They make this show. You have to see Justified. It's just the best show on TV and you too will get hooked too. I'm sure you will not be sorry you purchased JUSTIFIED.**********