I love watching foreign films because they tend to be more graphic and straightforward about many issues but that's beside the point. Bad Education is about the classic sources of rage for many: lies, deception, identity theft, sexual ambiguity, and love. This film manages to take us from present to past never losing our interest for a second. The revelations that are constantly revealed in this movie can be shocking for some and a full out party for others. I absolutely loved seeing the actor Gale Garcia Bernal changing between 3 different character types (what a lunatic!) and the actor Fele Martinez try to put the pieces of the sick twisted puzzle together. They both make a great pair in this film and the passion that is expressed in this movie is amazing!

The basic premise of the story is about a long lost love, Angel from Enrique's boyhood showing up with a dynamic script hoping to play one of the main characters Zahara. At first Enrique is more than happy to see Angel but he isn't so anxious to cast him in any movies. Enrique still holding a burning flame in his heart for Angel goes home and starts reading the script which turns out to be part autobiographical and part fictional. Enrique becomes overwhelmed with long lost memories and emotions from his childhood; the story reveals child molestation within the Catholic Church by one of the Padres Manolo (this is no surprise to most of us). After reading the script, Enrique decides to make the movie but refuses to cast Angel as Zahara.

Angel becomes angry and upset by not getting his way but eventually Enrique breaks down and lets him play the part. As the movie progresses on you start to find out that Angel is not who he claims to be and a murder mystery starts to unfold leaving poor Enrique holding on to keep from completely losing control of himself.

I recommend this movie to people who would like to see something outside of the box. People who love a good story and like to be intrigued or possibly shocked! Check this movie out, it's worth a look and take note of the main actors Gael and Fele because they are wonderful. I have seen Gael in Y Tu Mama Tambien (And Your Mother Too), Amores perros (Love's a female dog (curse word really goes there),  El Crimen del padre Amaro (The Crime of Father Amaro), and Diarios de Motocicleta (The Motorcycle Diaries) and he's managed to evoke some strong emotions from me. I started hating him when I saw him in El Crimen del padre Amaro for the horrid thing he did but started back liking him in Motorcycle Diaries. I've seen Fele Martinez in only two films so far: Abre los Ojos (Open Your Eyes) and Darkness. However, I'm currently going to watch Fele in the films Tesis (Thesis) and  Los Amantes del Circulo Polar (Lovers of the Arctic Circle). He adds a unique performance to the movies I've seen so far. I hope to see both of these actors more often. This movie was a real find! It does contain some graphic sexual scenes but that's pretty much it. I don't know what mess is in the NC-17 version. You will not regret checking this movie out!