For those who are reading this review but are unfamiliar with Joe Bonamassa, he is a young blues guitar prodigy from upstate NY. I am a long time follower of the blues, from seeing James Cotton as a teenager and I love both the traditional U.S. delta blues and the blues rock that came from the British affection for those same delta blues. I give this background, because I discovered Bonamassa through an Amazon recommendation for similar artists to many of my other purchases. I bought 3 of his albums (in CD form, I still love the hardcopy media), just based on the MP3 files I could listen to online. They are all good, but the live album, "Live from Nowhere in Particular" just blew me away. It's a 2 disc set that I listened to almost daily for weeks after I received it. Both the soulfulness and pure virtuosity of Joe's performances are breathtaking. My brother is a blues guitar player who has played with some of the best. He only knew of Bonamassa as the "next great thing", but had heard that before and never heard Bonamassa perform. When I played the live album he was so impressed he did some research and we discovered he was a child prodigy and grew up 90 minutes from where I live.

So with all that background, when I saw a blu-ray of Bonamassa at the Royal Albert hall, I pre-ordered it without hesitation. I am lucky to have the latest blu-ray DVD player and receiver technology, so when the album arrived I set it up and sat back with high expectations. It didn't disappoint. From the opening when you get to hear him talk about this being his life's dream, to play the Royal Albert Hall like Clapton (and making it at the tender age of 32) to seeing and hearing from his family, you feel that you are getting to know the artist as a person. Then the fun begins. He is surrounded my a group of formidable musicians (the good ones are always a magnate for talent) and every track is worth listening to. The recorded sound quality is excellent, and I see an average of a dozen major live performances a year (I've been a Bethel Woods member for several years), so I know the difference between live sound and the digitally mastered (and fudged) crap we listen to on most newer albums.

I won't do the play by play of every track as some reviews do. But if you have the equipment to get the full effect of what's on this disc, you can put this one on and pretend you're there, and I think you'll be transported.