I'll say this.  If you watch this movie first, then read the book, you'll wonder just what the heck the author was bribed with to allow his creation to be depicted this way.  This movie fails because of the foremost problem in all book-to-movie conversions: the story speeds past your eyes as fast as cars of a freeway.  I would attribute the cause to this is obvious: books are long and  screenplays and movies have constraints of length and time.  Unfortunately, it seemed that those two factors lead to this movie's downfall.  
Story:  The story is like this:  boys get sick of Texas, flee to Mexico, get in trouble, fall for pretty horses.  Even with the constraints of trying to jam all the elements from the book to 2 hours, that's no excuse for the method they chose to do so.  Basically, you feel no compassion at all for the characters.  The love between Damon and Cruz's characters is unbelievable.  There was no foundation, no evolvement, no nothing.  Literally, they shared a look, rode horses together and boom! these two are in love.  And they're scenes together were so limited, it seemed so much as fake than real.  Basically, they're love developed through numerous muted scenes of them running around and playing like 12 years olds.  THAT'S IT!  And all the sudden, he's so much in love that he does what he does?!(Don't want to give away the story folks).  That's so unbelievable it would make you scratch your head a million times before you realize the ending credits were the most interesting part of the film. Damon's character seemed to have been more in love with the dang horses than with Cruz's character.  If  his actions in the movie were because of the horses, then yeah, I'd believe it.  But Cruz's ain't no horse and they got more character development than she did.  
Directing:  It seem Billy Bob tried to put things in the movie that only he though made sense.  Thing is, he forgot (a lot!) to clue us in two what the heck we were seeing.  There was once scene were Damon was standing  near a man.  A cut scene occurs where this man for some reason is dancing like a loon, the next he cuts to what he was normally doing.  The point?  I asked myself that question until my fingers got numb from all the rewinds.  And that basically carries for most of the film.  Fortunately they didn't over due ridiculous scenes as that.  I suppose the editor actually wanted to keep his job afterwards.  The only really good scenes in this movie were not scenes at all, but the background.  When the two leading characters at the beginning of the movie are heading through the open unclaimed lands of Texas, I really wanted to jump into the picture and yell "YE-HAW!!"  Too bad the movie wasn't about the background.
Conclusion:  The movie is rushed.  The filmmakers were stuck with trying to fit as much in as possible, only to really leave yourself with a "what?" expression on  your face.  I would suggest reading the book first before having it spoiled for you.  Once you compare the two I think you'd be righting your own reviews minus a few stars above your title.