And I'm very glad it is. It wasn't as good as it could have been, given the budget, cast, and director. But it wasn't as bad as others have made it out to be.

I find great irony in the fact that Oliver Stone, long known for playing it fast and loose with history/reality, has been catching the guff for FINALLY getting one pretty historically accurate. If I have any disagreement with Stone's style, it would have been in maybe being a bit TOO accurate. Some of this could have been cut out and we never would have missed it. While I applaud the bravery in showing Alexander's bisexuality, as someone else has pointed out--we didn't need to see every single male lover he had. However, I also applaud the fact that the scenes were very tastefully done. The scene where Alexander invites the Persian male lover was far more sensual and erotic that the scene with Roxana, where they're slapping the crap out of each other.

I agreed with one reviewer that Colin Farrell was never quite the leader. But at the same time, he did have that silver tongue. He was not as unidimensional as some have suggested. Farrell explored Alexander's charismatic side as well as his sadistic side. The character was well rounded thanks to a great actor.

I wish there had been more of Val Kilmer, but I don't think Phillip really shaped Alexander as much as his mother, played flawlessly by Angelina. Although where she got that accent...well, she still gave a very intense performance.

The only complaint I had with this movie is that terrible score. Incredible battle scenes with the most wimpy music I've ever heard in my life. It's really true that the musical score can make or break a film. And this movie would have been tons better with a different score.

All in all, Alexander got a bad rap and an undeserved bad review. To compare it with Troy is not fair or correct. What few flaws this movie had do not justify ignoring it. I, for one, have been salivating over the release of Alexander. I can't wait until I have it in hand.