I was excited about this film.  Ricky Gervais has been one of the freshest, most honest voices in comedy in recent memory.  He's never been afraid to tackle the taboo or the downright offensive.  And I expected as much with this one.  Knowing his personal animus towards religion, I knew what I was getting in to.

You have to know that the crux of this film centers upon Mark Bellison "creating" religion out of a heartfelt attempt to comfort his dying mother.  In many ways, this was an inspired idea.  Unfortunately, the viewer is absolutely beaten over the head with the symbolism.  When it comes time to speak to the masses about what the "Man in the Sky" told him, Mark writes what he wants everyone to know on two sheets of paper.  "I wish I had some tablets, or even just some nicer paper," he quips.  And thus begins the repeated, and tortuous, pushing of the agenda.  Personal feelings about religion aside, its just too much.

And my other big problem with this film is that the filmmakers are not true to the universe they've created.  Being unable to tell a lie is not the affliction from which the characters suffer; they are incapable of tact, character, manners, or being decent human beings.  It is one thing to never tell a lie; it is quite another for random people to stop the main character on the street to berate his genetic shortcomings.

Despite these flaws, there is one quite excellent scene that displays that Gervais, while a gifted comedian and surveyor of our culture, is quite a gifted actor.  The scene in which he tells his mother that death is not an "eternity of nothingness" but that she goes to a happy place with everyone she loves is pure brilliance.  To borrow a phrase from Orson Welles, that scene "would make a stone cry."  Additionally, Gervais handles the ending, and his character's "sins," so to speak, quite deftly in an attempt to regain Mark Bellison's humanity (despite another glaring inconsistency in the universe he creates-I don't want to spoil it, so I won't discuss it here).

I imagine that one who agrees with Gervais's views on religion might find the repeated bludgeoning of the symbolism comedic, but I did not.  I found it a cheap and easy way out.  So, despite a few redeeming qualities and an inspired scene or two from Gervais, the film underwhelms and belies Gervais's previous film outings, notably the surprisingly deft and funny "Ghost Town."