These days, since the Rolling Stones have become the  rock equivalent of an old-timers baseball team, their live act resembling a tribute band attempting to imitate the Stones and
doing a bad job of it, and with the release of their unspeakable
"Don't Stop" single (more on that in a second), it's hard to remember what a rock-and-roll colossus the Stones were in 1969.
(It's most difficult for me to remember, since I was only 3 at the time). Nonetheless, if you're wondering where the Stones
got their "Greatest Rock and Roll Band in the World" moniker, watch this DVD.
  Watch the Stones perform "Satisfaction". If I never hear the radio version of that song again, I won't care. Yet, I
can listen to this Madison Square version over and over again.
Just a raw, tough number: Mick's theatrics, Charlie Watts's superb leadership on the drums (if you don't have Charlie, you don't have the Stones,I will not argue about this). Watch them
tear through "Street Fighting Man", the climax to the 60's pre-Altamont. What a ride!
(Back to "Don't Stop": when I first heard it, I thought it was one of Mick's solo songs, so I thought "Oh well, another lame Jagger tune." Then afterward, the DJ indentified it as a Stones
song! A STONES song? You mean Keith Richards and Charlie Watts are also responsible for this? Memo to Mick and Co: either do it
right, or don't do it. Your fans aren't that stupid.)
Back to Gimme Shelter.
(OK, here's the part about Altamont)
All the postmortems about Altamont have been written and discussed over and over, so I won't go into them here. All I can say is that if you ever decide to plan a rock festival, and it's only 24 hours before you are scheduled to go onstage and you don't have a concert site lined up, cancel. That's all I can say.
Gimme Shelter includes the pre-concert negotiations between Mel Belli an others. One scene says it all for me. As Altamont speedway owner Dick Carter explains how he will provide adequate parking facilities for 300,000 people, the camera shows attorney Belli with a what-the-heck-are-we-getting-ourselves-into look on
his face. The concert was an disaster waiting to happen, and everyone involved knew it, but nobody could stop a runaway train.
Gimme Shelter is part concert film, and part slice of history. Eveything is laid bare, without the benefit of journalistic spin
evident in current films about the 60's. The viewer also gets to
see and hear the Rolling Stones at the absolute top of their game, building a reputation that they still are living on today.