This is an unforgettable film, an intelligent and suspenseful story with fantastic ensemble acting, and that shows how a lot of little mistakes, and big egos, bigger ignorance, and lots of bureaucrats, can lead to massive loss of life. And did so here so tragically in the AIDS crisis, in which a small group of scientists and doctors struggled to contain a terrifying new virus in the 1980s.

The fact that the disease was still 'trackable' when it was pinpointed -- as illustrated in this film -- it breaks my heart. I could not have imagined a movie of the book when I read it, but this film has a pulse-pounding and truly suspenseful story as one small team races to contain the spread of the disease, while (heartbreakingly) watching so many lives fall with staggering quickness before the disease. We meet many of these victims briefly, yet they are interesting and instantly memorable people, and it hurts to lose them.  We also see how these stunning losses inexorably begin to affect those on the team (there's an especially lovely scene between Glenn Headley and Richard Gere that goes from being charming and slightly flirtatious, to quietly devastating in just a minute or two). Gere is very good here (in a character inspired by "A Chorus Line" creator Michael Bennett).

So many of the facts presented here are hard to believe just a few decades later -- the victims who continued to infect others simply because they could not face their own mortality -- the refusals to close the bathhouses -- the refusals of blood banks to start a screening process that would have protected hemophiliacs from receiving at least 75% of infected blood (because of the expense -- sigh) -- the fact that too few people in government cared (or would even mention the word AIDS) simply because it involved gay men.

Matthew Modine is excellent as the passionate doctor intent on finding a cure, and the superb cast also includes such wonderful actors as Anjelica Huston, Steve Martin, Patrick Bauchau, Richard Masur, David Dukes, Glenn Headley, Alan Alda (a wonderful and chilling, stupidly egotistical villain), Swoosie Kurtz, Richard Gere, Donal Logue, and many more. I love all the performances here, and the final montage is stunning. I can't imagine anyone not being moved by all those vibrant images of people who are no longer with us.

It's a movie that is surprisingly suspenseful and exciting, and which stays with you for a long time.  My favorite line in the film occurs in a quiet scene near the end of the story, in a coffee shop where Matthew Modine breaks down for the first time, in frustration, anger, and sadness, only to be consoled, with surprising kindness, by the boss he fought against for so long:  "Sometimes I look at you, in awe and wonder, too."