Film Review by Jim Richardson
 First published in "Der Stump"  7/16/75  
GREATEST FILM EVER MADE  
The greatest film ever made is  director Marcel Carne's "The Children of Paradise" with script by  Jacques Prevert. It's hard to say more.  
But I will.
 :-)  
In Paris of the 1840's on Le Boulevard du Crime, Carne's camera soars  through sideshow entertainments of every description. The motion picture  has just begun. No characters introduced. Already the audience is gasping,  dizzy, lost in a swirl of romantic imagery. We are inside a theatre sharing  the cheapest seats in the last row of the top balcony near the ceiling with  the "children of paradise." We forget ourselves and any notion  that a film has to be "realistic" as we float along catching  Carne's glimpse of this lost, fantastic era. The movie moves. It overflows  with art and intelligence; we are totally under its spell of romance and  beauty.  
As the story unfolds, we watch it in a daze. There is  suffering and sudden death. But no leaden hand is telling us this is a  stylized allegory dealing with the paralysis of an occupied France. This is  the kind of film people make when they may die tomorrow: we are compelled  to receive it on the edge of our seat, every nerve tingling with desperate  anticipation. We don't need to know that it was made between 1943-45 when  some of the filmmakers were being hunted by the Gestapo, that starving  extras stole banquets before they could be photographed.
  
Every  movement the performers make is studied, made perfect as though this would  be the last time any of them were to act. Garbo interests you? Meet  Arletty. The ideal twentieth century woman. Witty. Controlled. Passionate.  When she comes to her lover she glides toward the camera, walking without  the use of her feet. Impossible? Not this time.  
Jean-Louis Barrault  playing Baptiste Debureau, the greatest French mime who created Pierrot (a  pale, love-sick, ever-hopeful seeker after happiness) -- Barrault  transcends the man's legend with elegant pathos. And the way he moves. Like  a feather. How did he learn that?  
The man who taught him plays his  father in the film. As a matter of fact, Etienne Decroux taught Marcel  Marceau as well. What does Decroux think of Marceau's popular mime? Snarls,  "Walt Disney!"  
Mime is serious to Decroux. At some of his  performances if the audience interrupts with applause, he is insulted and  immediately retires from the stage!  
In the film, we see Barrault do  many of Decroux's mime exercises during moments of Debureau's performances.  Does Decroux think this is a good film? It is said that when he views it,  tears run down his cheeks as he mouths all the lines.  
But the film  is not just about mime. Pierre Brasseur plays the most renowned romantic  actor in France, Frederick LeMaitre. Decroux doesn't want him in his mime  company at first because it's so obvious that "he's an actor."  Frederick gets his break when he mocks a playwright by turning the man's  melodrama into a farce. Years pass and both actor and mime become  successful. But the actor cannot play "Othello" because he is so  vain nothing can make him feel jealousy. That's right: Arletty cures him!  
And there are aristocrats, and murderers, and thieves. And the film  is over three hours long without a break. And you will be surprised how  fast those three hours disappear!  
You will be overcome with a  feeling of ecstasy; you will sigh, you will cry. And as your breath is  taken away you will be left with so much you never knew before, that you  always thought existed; something will have happened to you for the first  time, and forever. Now is the time to fall in love with the best there is!