It's been a while since I've written a review of a DVD, but I had to comment on this new 2-disc special edition of Oklahoma. First of all, it's wonderful to have the Cinemascope version available on DVD at last. This is the familiar version that I grew up with and watched (admittedly in pan-and-scan) on TV for years and years. Then in the mid-90s I heard about a "new" version of Oklahoma that had not been seen for years, filmed in Todd-AO. I eagerly rushed out and bought the laserdisc of this version, and brought it home. I was STUNNED! The picture was clear as crystal, sharply in focus and had almost a video-like clarity to it, due to the 30 frames-per-second Todd-AO process. The colors were sharper than I'd ever seen this movie in, and the sound was as if it had been recorded in a modern studio yesterday.

Then a few years later the advent of DVD came about and I couldn't wait for the Todd-AO version to come out and knock the socks off the laserdisc transfer. Unfortunately, I was disappointed; while a lot of the clarity was still there I could tell a lot of the sharpness was lost in the digital transfer to DVD. The lack of an anamorphic picture was not a problem as I did not yet have a wide-screen HDTV; All in all, though, the laserdisc version still looked better.

Then I bought my Sony 46" widescreen TV, and once again waited. . .thinking the next DVD version of Oklahoma would correct not only the problems with the digital transfer but will also be anamorphic, creating an even sharper image. Tonight I picked up the new 50th anniversary DVD. First I put on the Cinemascope version. It looked excellent!. . .much better than any previous version on video of the Cinemascope Oklahoma, including the Cinemascope laserdisc which was pretty fuzzy and faded. In anticipation I switched discs to the Todd-AO version. The first thing that worried me, though, was the fact that the Todd-AO version seems to be included as an "extra", along with all the other extras on the second disc. I started playing it and noticed the main titles seemed out of focus. Then the picture opened up on the corn field, that first shot that made me gasp with pleasure with that Todd-AO laserdisc I got 10 or so years ago. I definitely gasped again. . .with horror! Although the 30-fps smoothness of motion is still there, the colors are faded -- and worst of all, the entire picture is out of focus! This doesn't look anywhere NEAR 70mm quality; it doesn't even match the 35mm quality of the Cinemescope version! I have to agree with the poster that said this version needs to be recalled and remastered; it is one of the worst travesties I've seen in ANY video remaster, especially considering the wonderful picture of the LASERDISC 10 years ago! If you have the original DVD version of this, my advice is hang onto it until the Blu-Ray version comes out (although considering the history of these transfers that version will probably end up having the same quality as an old Little Rascals short. This one is darned close to that!)