Creepy, film noir-inspired music sets the tone for a tale about sisters who feel out of pace with the rest of their small, affluent town. Coppola was right on when it came to the saturated, incestuous, Twin Peaks a la' 1970s feel of the Michigan burbs, infusing a memorable sense of place throughout the movie in lethargic, lingering camera shots. 
Less time was spent developing the characters. Whether or not intentional, the names and personalities of Lux, Mary, Bonnie, and Therese blend together. Everything we know comes from the boys who live on the same street and commiserate about their teenage obsessions with them. The story is being told by one of the boys, now a grown-up, in retrospect.
Despite popular praise for Sofia Coppola's direction, I think the movie speaks more for her promise--which no doubt is great--than her performance here, though she did make some crucial decisions about its look and feel. Had the quality of the best moments been consistant throughout, it would have left little to be desired. 
In the DVD there is a behind the scenes feature in which Francis Ford Coppola talks about how Sofia's adaptation of  the Jeffery Eugenides novel was so good he knew he had to produce the film. I sort of disagree. 
People who have read the book will appreciate how the movie basically captures the feel of adolescence and sexuality, and the tunnel vision of teenagers. But they will lament how thin the story became. The focus shifts more heavily to the Lux-Trip relationship, less on the degeneration of the Lisbon's lives. The scene when the bodies were discovered, which had so much cinematic potential (and promised to be a  payoff considering it's a real cinematic movie), came off lukewarm. 
Nonetheless, it is more thoughtful and more memorable than most movies. It will go down sort of as a "Heathers"--a small, meaningful movie that people will think about now and again. Beautifully cast (except for Trip, who I expected to be more like someone the local mothers had crushes on, as told by Eugenides) and acted, it is definitely to be seen. But be warned, if the story were adapted to movie 100 times, this would be only in the top 15. Perfectionists will have wanted more.