Okay, I have been reading some fairly negative reviews about this series and thought I would provide some clarification on apparently the biggest complaint - the ending.  First of all, you have to understand that Berserk is a bi-weekly comic book published in Japanese and these DVD's are simply an animated version of the books that was playing late night in Japan.  The animation, if memory serves me correct, covers books 1 through 13 of the comics and ends there.  However, the comic books series continue much more (and even on-going as I write this today) and currently the comics are at 26!  So all I am trying to say is these DVD's should not be criticized for their ending because that is not how the story ends... the animation only ends and in the comics, Guts is adventures are continuing strongly.  
But for many of you, who do not live in Japan or do not have access to the Japanese comics... here is a summary of what happens next (WARNING!  SPOILERS AHEAD!)
1.  After being rescued from "hell" by the skull helmed warrior, Guts and Casca are returned to the mountain where he trained after immediately leaving the Falcon Army.
2.  Caska has gone insane from her experiences and gives birth to a half demon child (who immediately disappears to reappear numerous times later).
3.  Leaving Casca, Guts sets out to hunt down the various disciples of God Hand and kills quite a few.
4.  Upon returning back home, he realizes that Casca has disappeared (wandered off) and he sets out on a quest to find her.  
5.  During the quest, after defeating some disciples, he rescues Casca.  However, in the craziness surrounding the rescue, Gryphis returns to the normal mortal plane.
6.  Having a mortal body, Gryphic reforms the Falcon Army which is then used to defeat Midland from the invading armies of Kushan.
7.  Meanwhile, Guts, accompanied with Casco, a young witch, a thief, and a former inquistor and her body guard travel to find Gryphis.  
8.  Guts get superpowered up by gaining a Dwarven Armor that makes him unbelievably strong (and it is hinted that this is the same type of armor worn by the skull helmed warrior).
  That is about where the comic ended today.  Anyways, I hope that this was of some help to some people but.. let me just say this, for those who loved the animation.. the comics are infinitely better.  People would not believe who "tame" the animation is compared to the comics...