There have been many reviews of this great movie that have compared it with another great war movie, Saving Pvt Ryan.  This is not just silly, but  ridiculous.  SPR was based on a fictional script, written to become a  movie.  TLD is based on Cornelious Ryan's best selling, AND VERY ACCURATE  book of the same name.  Luckily, MR. Zannuck shared Mr. Ryan's commitment  to reality.  
When he filmed paratroopers of the 82nd unluckily dropping  into the town square at St. MereEgleise, he filmed on the actual town  square.  Yes, a paratrooper did hang from the church spire and witness the  slaughter, and yes Red Buttons hangs from the SAME church spire, and was  also deafened from the same bells.  
Likewise the portrayal of the 6th  Airborne (British) seizure of the bridge over the canal (Pegasus Bridge)is  portrayed with great accuracy at the actual bridge.  The actor who plays  Maj Howard at the bridge was a 6th Division veteran who had jumped into  Normandy on June 6.  The US Rangers attack on Point du Hoc is filmed at the  actual site as well.  I don't think any other war movie ever had that  attention to detail.
Much is made of the Marine Captain who gave some  instruction to SPR actors.  Long before that, Zannuck had German Army  veterans spend 3 weeks teaching the Frenchmen who would portray the  Whermact soldiers how to handle weapons, equipment and act as German  soldiers acted, (3 Weeks!!) 
This movie is great, because in addition,  German actors portray German soldiers, British actors portray their  countryman with that typical British "at the sharp end" coolness,  and of course American actors portray the Americans.  About the only  critiscism I'd agree with is Robert Ryan and John Wayne WERE too old for  the officers they portrayed.  
SPR was a great warmovie, however, Mr  Hanks, I must disagree, it's no "Historical Document"  People who  need that sort of graphic violence to show them how horrible war is need to  pick up an occasional book (TLD would be a good start) that has more text  than pictures.  
TLD IS a great movie, it's no substitute for reading the  book, but you will understand something of what the Allied soldier faced  when he underwent his "Longest Day" by watching it.