Luc Besson has this ability to create. Create something that can be considered `arty' yet realistically sound. Leon, or The Professional as it was called in America, is easily Besson's best. As good as Nikita was Leon is better, with better actors and most importantly...a better plot.

Jean Reno is Leon, a stylish French hitman. Amidst the chaos of New York, Leon finds a source of peace in himself, and no one else. That is until a girl named Mathilda ( Natalie Portman ) walks into his life...or rather stumbles. Mathilda's father is in a degree of drug trouble with the bentest cop you will ever meet, the superb Gary Oldman. Mathilda never really liked her family, except for her four year old brother. Oldman is searching for a stash of drugs which Mathilda's father has hidden, his form of searching is to blow away the whole family, then search. A hands on approach that works. Until Leon gets involved. Mathilda is out getting groceries, when she comes back she has no choice but to go to Leon, who lets her in his flat. Mathilda is taught how to kill by Leon, and plans to kill the bent cops as revenge for her little brother.

The relationship between Mathilda and Leon is fascinating. Mathilda claims she has fallen in love with him, despite an age difference of about twenty five years. Leon shrugs it aside. But there are awkward moments where you sense a connection between the two. Something completely unnatural, and would probably be considered child abuse if anything happened. But...it's there...and unavoidable. Don't worry, they never go where your thinking but it's still a very complex idea brought forward by Besson. Is it that unnatural?

The film contains some exciting action scenes, and its always a treat seeing how a good hitman works. How he deceives his opponent, out-thinks and out-manoeuvres. Reno is very convincing, with his heavy French accent, and cool shades, its perfection. The cast in general is perfect, Oldman is the obvious star, and I am yet to see him so psychopathic in any other film.

I would recommend Leon to absolutely anyone. The plot is simple but intriguing, the relationships bordering the inhumane, the action is fast paced and gets the adrenalin moving, best of all the acting is stellar. It's also a very moving film, and really gets in touch with reality. What more could you want?