Having bought this film several years ago when it first came out in the Criterion version and also owned James Cameron's first dvd version has given me a long term perspective on this film.

First off, it is true that it is not the best treatment by Criterion.  They have in the past done better treatments on films by removing all dust and color correcting and light balanced a few films in their collection "frame by frame."  This version is a very good treatment none-the-less.  It was done, I believe, before "dvd 9," (dual layer), became popular and so does not have the higher definition of many newer movies, thus resulting in several gigabits less information dedicated to the movie image on the disk than a newer copy may have.  I hope to see this released in blu-ray with full treatment.  The movie, however, was released during a time when interest in the Titanic was at an all time high.  New discoveries about the titanic, along with new underwater filming techniques helped to peak interest in Titanic's history, along with the fact that a few remaining survivors were then still alive helping to futher the interest.  I do not think the interest will warrant a blu-ray release by Criterion.  Perhaps, when Cameron's version comes to blu-ray as he has announced for the future, there may be enough interest to warrant a Criterion release, and I hope so.

In the mean while, even though Cameron's version has color,great effects, much more detail and accuracy concerning the ship, and even though there is plenty of coverage of the human drama envolved, somehow "A Night To Remember" has held my interest more over the years since I have owned it.  The overused romance, foul language, disrespect for elders, arrogance, rebellion,nudity, rudeness and independance of it's coarse characters, in my opinion, takes away from the greater part of the film and prevents it from being an historically accurate family movie.  The dignity and beauty of the ship, it's crew, and it's people who lost their lives are done an injustice, somewhat, by Cameron's ideas in this film.  I have scarcely watched Cameron's version three times over the years. The second time I watched it I found myself counting how many times DiCaprio crys the name "Rose" in it's overused phrasing!"  In contrast, I watch Criterion's version at least a couple of times a year or more.  Why?  Well, it's simply a better story and it's the story that wins out in a film, not the effects.  Secondly, it's the dialogue.  Try this with both films.  Close your eyes and listen to the story and dialogue without watching the film.  You will see what I mean.

Much is made of the inaccuracies of A Night To Remember.  There are several factors for this.  First, many of Harland & Wolfs blueprints had been lost during bombings in WWII.  Many of these were found and used in the filming of Cameron's edition and several of the models made of the ship during that same time.  There was a scarce amount of drawings available during the filming of "A Night To Remember."  Also, the only model actually available for reference was the "builder's" model made before the building of Titanic's sister ship, the "Olympic" which did not have many of the same ship arrangements as Titanic and to which many changes were later made after the model was built and were not added to that model.

Second, it was not until Robert Ballard discovered the Titanic wreck in the 80's that it became well known that the Titanic had actually split in two.  Accounts of the sinking only speculated the ship broke in half, and then only based on a few eyewitness accounts who thought they heard it break, and because of the wreakage.  Even Cameron's film predicts the breaking actually took place under the water where it was not seen.  Some in the original event thought it broke in two because the stern stood up, and then settled again almost level, but still at an angle, (in Sir Walter Lords account).  In spite of these things, the story still holds up to what people who were there remembered of the event.  Overall, the film still holds up to the passage of time.