This movie is rated as among the one hundred best movies ever made. It is very interesting, because there is a code of honor, that the British must obey. They live by a structure, a framework of philosophy, a set of principles. For example, prisoners of war must work, however, the officers are not allowed to do manual labor. There is no compromise nor negotiation on this! The Japanese also have code of honor. The commander must finish complete the construction of the bridge by the deadline or commit suicide. The prisoners of war will not cooperate under Japanese supervision and the Japanese demand that the officers perform manual labor. The deadline is fast approaching and there is no bridge, not even a shadow of a bridge. The Japanese give in to the British and the officers take over the task of supervision. Under the British code of honor, the prisoners of war must not only work, but the quality of work must be good. The British discover, that the foundation of the bridge is under soft ground and as soon as the railroad crosses the bridge, well, the whole bridge will come down. The Japanese are told, that the half-completed bridge must be abandoned and that they must start all over again on solid ground. Imagine the look on the Japanese commander's face. This is his life, that we are talking about. What about the deadline? Believe it or not, the British finish the bridge on time and the commander's life is saved. However, there is another issue, that has come up. Some people are suggesting, that this is cooperation with the enemy. After all, the bridge will contribute to the war effort of the Japanese. The construction of the bridge is giving aid and comfort to the enemy. Is it high treason? Well, I let you decide that question. If you want to watch a movie without profanity, with an outstanding plot, with an excellent character development, with reality nor fantasy, then this is the film for you. They do not make movies like this anymore. They do not have the actors for it, like William Holden and Alec Guiness.