I was going to skip writing a review to this disc. I was one of the very first to get it in the States and even then there were so many reviews that said what I was going to say that I decided to skip it. However, reading some of the negative reviews I think that many people do not understand the situation with this release. Yes, it has problems and you should go in with your eyes open. But it's not as bad as some make it out to be.

 First of all, the negatives. As other reviewers have already mentioned, the sound seems to be sped up. I suspect that it is actually just a pitch change, as the action still looks normal and the voices still synch. The video has some slight artifacts, and the special features are really pretty nonexistant.

 In any other DVD, this would make me tear my hair out (or, at least, return the disc). But the negatives are far outweighed by the positives. In order to explain why, let me give a brief history.

 When the pilot for Twin Peaks was made, the money was provided by Warner Bros. Since it was not known at the time whether a network would buy the series, WB insisted that Lynch/Frost produce an ending for the pilot. That way, if the series wasn't picked up, they could get their money back by selling the pilot as a stand-alone movie. The ending produced really didn't wrap anything up, but the footage was designed to be salvaged later as Cooper's dream in episode 2. The pilot, with the surreal ending, was shown briefly in some theaters in Europe before ABC greenlit the series, thus it is sometimes called the "European version".

 Fast forward to the end of the series. When the decision was made to release the series on video, Propaganda films realized that it couldn't get rights to the pilot. WB refused to give the rights up because they hadn't made all the money that they could. They released the pilot on their own (separate from the series episodes and never mentioning that it was a series in the first place) on both VHS and LaserDisc. Problem is that they released the version with their "special unaired footage". In other words, the artificial ending that was produced under duress and that keeps the "European version" from meshing with the rest of the series. This version was NOT the way it was intended to be seen, despite what some reviewers have claimed.

 Until now, that has been the only version ever available on any sort of video. The pilot was broadcast in its intended form three times by ABC (its initial airing, and then twice over the summer to increase viewership for season 2) and several times by Bravo (as part of their "TV Too Good For TV" nights). Other than that, no one in the US has seen the correct version of the pilot until this DVD became available.

 So, the positives? Simply, they are the fact that we now have a version of the pilot that we can play before watching the rest of the series without having to go into a fifteen minute explanation of why the ending doesn't fit with the beginning of the next episode. We can see Sarah Palmer's correct vision (the one referenced later in the series). We can, just for a moment, go back to the first time we saw the show and remember gathering with friends awaiting the next revelations from Lynch & co. without having to do some fancy editing work or pull out our ancient, fading tapes from 1990.

 Don't listen to the complainers. If you want to watch this amazing series, you MUST start with this disc.

 My review = 4 stars (5 stars for content, -1 for technical glitches)