Sometimes there's a book, a movie, a CD, that receives a low Amazon.com score and I think the rating is completely wrong - "Dogtooth" fits this category entirely.

"Dogtooth" is a very unusual movie - so much so that there can't be anything else like it in the history of cinema, and perhaps even storytelling.  Because of that, there are going to be people out there who prefer a more straightforward method of presenting a story idea.  Those people are going to dislike "Dogtooth."

If you're not aware of the movie's premise and point (as I wasn't), the first few minutes can be as confusing, disorienting and surreal as the worst imaginable mushroom trip.  I almost turned it off.  I'm so glad that I didn't now because it's been one of those movies I've been discussing for weeks afterward.

I really don't like reviews that give away too much story, so I'll write about it in general and thematic terms.  "Dogtooth" presents what life would be like for anyone living under totalitarian rule, whether it's an entire country, a cult's compound, or a family.  To me, it posed fascinating questions on how do we know what we know, and how all of us are basically at the mercy of those who provide us the information by which we learn and know everything that's the foundation of ourselves.  For instance, the family in this movie had created such an alternate reality for their children, that one daughter thought the word for "salt shaker" was "telephone."

With information under the complete control of the dictatorial parents, their three adult offspring are kept in a constant state of childlike ignorance and naivete, thus showing how knowledge is the key to what makes us fully mature humans.  The reasons why the parents do this is never given, hence the viewer is left to fill in the details.

I do have one caveat - if you're a cat lover, as I am, there will be a scene in this movie that will either be too grizzly to watch, or possibly offend you.  If you watch it, just fair warning to you - I recommend you fast forward it, and you really won't miss anything.

As a matter of fact, for that scene, I'd knock off 1/2 a star for the movie maker knocking the viewer in the face with a philosophical sledgehammer.  However, because I'm so disappointed in the low Amazon score for this movie, I erred on the side of optimism.