Atomic Cafe (1982) is a scathing documentary on the atomic age created from archival film from the 40s-early 60s.  The scope of the material is extensive: military training films (often the most morbidly hilarious and poorly acted of the bunch), television news, various other government-produced propaganda films - they convey the American fear and obsession with atomic weapons and their disastrous consequences (both historical and potential).

The first third is more historical in nature -- it shows clips the atomic bombs dropping on Nagasaki and Hiroshima (with interviews with the pilots), the effects of radiation, the jubilation at the end of the war, and (one of the more uncomfortable sections to watch) American soldiers explaining to the Bikini Atoll islanders that their home will soon be the site of nuclear testings (and they smile, and laugh, and occasionally look bewildered).

The last two thirds of the film is less chronological and consists of various propaganda films.  Of course we see the notorious Duck and Cover.... But some of the others are just as good/bizarre/uncanny/morbid:  a boy whose radiation protection suit is made partially from oven mits, overweight school girls in deadpan voices describing how to put together fallout shelter provisions, scenes of Nixon and Krushchev, the effects of atomic weapon radiation on hair, the effects of radiation on pigs, towns which experiment with Stalinism, various fallout shelters, and fathers rationalizing that at least food will be easier to find if most of the population is killed by a blast, etc etc.

What strikes the viewer immediately is the complete lack of narration (besides the original narration in the film clips).  Instead a WONDERFUL sound track of atomic age inspired songs create a surprisingly horrific atmosphere.  For example:

A wealth of fascinating clips can be found here -- and of course with the advent of youtube and imdb.com the actual documentaries and songs can be tracked down online.

A great documentary and an amazing sound track...  One doesn't know whether to laugh or cry at the second third...

Highly recommended!