This movie avoids the easy out that most films of its kind take--the cliche tale of the psycho lover or cold, controlling spouse. Instead, this movie reaches a careful balance where all three characters are sympathetic, even when they are doing ghastly things.

It would have been easy to make the husband a jerk.  Instead, he is a basically decent man who has some problems with communication, greed, and managing his emotions.

It would have been easy to make the wife shallow and selfish so that we loathe her for doing this to her family.  Instead, she is a good mother, generous person, and loving wife who makes one mistake after the other as she gets caught up in an immoral indulgence.

Finally, it would be easiest of all to make the lover a psycho.  Instead, we get Paul--a compassionate and tender caretaker who loves books.  He's also a reckless, arrogant, womanizer, but the movie is careful to temper that with his good qualities.

People who think this film is about a bored housewife and a sexually violent boyfriend didn't bring enough experience or attention to the film, I fear.

Connie is boxed in, not bored.  She spends every day taking care of her son and her husband, the house, and other people in her charity work.  She is the consummate care-taker, a crone before her time, locked into that role by her choices.  Her husband is a decent person who loves her, but he is portrayed from the start as a big child.  She has to tell the family what to wear, what to eat, where to be, and what to say.  She controls and takes care of everything.

When she meets Paul, she finds someone who takes care of her for a change, even though he is much younger.  From the start, he tends to her wounds.  He indulges her girlishness, and teaches her new things.  And yes, he exerts physical but _consensual_ control over her in the bedroom.

This movie doesn't have any rape scenes in it.  People who think otherwise must have missed oh-so-subtle indications of consent such as her _literally asking him to do what he's doing_.

The sex scenes are intensely passionate.  Raw base recklessness is portrayed on the screen.  In particular, Diane Lane manages to portray a girlish, trembling eroticism that makes the viewer hold in breath to behold. She perfectly captures a mixture of laughter, trembling and tears--the sound of anguished surrender.

Moreover, the affair itself is tenderness.  Again, it would have been very easy to make the relationship about a mere physical affair, but the script goes to great lengths to make it an emotional affair as well.  The most wounding thing to Connie's husband is not the sex, but the intimacy his wife shared with another man behind his back.

The confrontation between the husband and the lover is the best scene I've ever seen from Richard Gere, and a scene likely to haunt long after you've put this film away.

The mood evoked is meloncholy--sadness over the follies of human beings, over what good people can do when they lack courage, and how sexual needs are sometimes man's downfall.  Overall, this is a sophistocated tale of choices, consequences, and some deep truths about lies, marriage, fidelity, and intimacy.