"A Few Good Men", directed by Rob Reiner and based on the screenplay by Aaron Sorkin, should easily make anyone's list of the top 50 films ever made.  However, the film does take certain liberties in its portrayal of Marine culture and military justice.  As a civilian myself, I am certainly not an authority on the subject.  However, it doesn't take Einstein to figure out that no Judge Advocates General attorney speaks to their superiors the way Daniel Kaffee (Tom Cruise) does and gets away with it.  While I realize that Cruise aimed for a comic approach to his "boy entering manhood" trademark role, I was disappointed to see the rest of the cast seeming to play along with his irreverence.

Nevertheless, his cavalier attitude towards authority figures sets up a few stellar rebukes from his costars, notably Lt. Com. JoAnne Galloway (Demi Moore) and of course, the crowd favorite Lt. Col. Nathan R. Jessup (Jack Nicholson).  While Cruise probably had the best perfomance of his career (along with a strong supporting cast in Moore, Kevin Pollak, Kevin Bacon, J.T. Walsh, and Keifer Sutherland), Nicholson steals the show.  His "you can't handle the truth!" monologue alone is worth the price of admission.

The cinematography of this film is absolutely mind blowing, except for one matte shot of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba that looks very fake.  The Windward Division barracks reminds me of a base I saw in Key West, Florida.  The courtroom is shown from all angles, almost like being there yourself, and you feel a real sense of history in the place.  Pay attention to the lighting.  Reiner mentions the lighting in his director commentary, and yes, it does make a difference in how you experience the film.

The widescreen special edition of "A Few Good Men" has the obligatory extras.  Reiner is not very talkative in the director commentary, which is disappointing.  However, there are a few bonuses, such as a special documentary made for the DVD, production notes, spoken language selections for French, Portuguese, Spanish, and plenty of chapter selections (for those who prefer to skip to their favorite parts).

All in all, a great movie.  I give it three stars for factual accuracy, four stars for cinematography and musical score, and five stars for the over the top peformances of Nicholson, Cruise, and Moore.  These average out to the four star rating.  Buy it, forget about the flaws, and enjoy the performances of an A-list cast.