I have read so many reviews of this latest Dead Head movie by George A Romero that I approached it as I always have with Romero's visions, keep an open mind and approach it within the mythos of his concept.  Doing this, I think that 'SURVIVAL OF THE DEAD' is Romero at his most poignant and this latest film is his best since the first two of the Zombie cycle. His emergence in the past two decades as a first rate filmmaker and photographer is evident in this films haunting images.  There is not one moment in Zach Snyder's unnecessary remake of 'DAWN OF THE DEAD' that chilled me to the bone and yet the vision in this film of the living dead girl riding her horse through the forest did just that to me in less than a minute. The poignancy begins to arise as the squad comes across redneck vigilantes at a camp site.  Our main character played by Alan Van Spring starts hearing grunting noises and comes upon the heads of zombies impaled on poles within their camp.  The heads still alive glaring and emoting sounds. Van Spring, disgusted by it all, starts firing at the heads and commences firing on the rednecks as Romero, dare I write it, has us feeling sympathy for our zombies.  This feeling persists throughout the film causing the viewers emotions to start bouncing around like a ball bearing. The scene of the character of Muldoon sitting down to have dinner with his captured female soldier as his living dead wife is chained in the kitchen going through her motions and eventually coming into extreme closeup with a look of death from beyond the grave also chilled me as none of the other countless remakes and spinoffs could ever do. The most poignant scene is the one where the two twin sisters, one living and one zombie confront each other , the living reaches out to stroke the dead's face and the suddenness of the attack on the wrist as the zombie cannot control the urge for warm flesh, showing pure motorized instinct at its most chilling, the living sister gasping in both surprise and knowledge that she is already the living dead. These scenes speak volumes as to how George A Romero is the quintessential filmmaker of the Zombie genre , breaking all odds to get his vision on screen. Even the bigger budget of 'LAND OF THE DEAD' released by Universal Pictures does not have the power of these lower budget sequences contained in this excellent horror film. Romero has always been a lone wolf when it comes to bringing his visions to the screen wishing he could do it all on his own rather than having over 40 people on the set trying to keep up with him. Watch the interview included called 'TIME WITH GEORGE' and you'll see what I mean.  No one can touch him and they never should.  Romero leaves us with a new idea at the climax, having the living dead exist off animals as an alternative food supply.  George, I can hardly wait for the next one.