The original version of The Parent Trap was, in my opinion, the best movie to come out of Disney.  Therefore, I wasn't very optimistic about the remake.  So many classics have been remade disastrously that I tend to avoid them if possible.  My curiosity got the better of me with Parent Trap, and I must say I was very pleasantly surprised.  The remake has a terrific cast and a great soundtrack and updates the story in a completely believable way.  Inevitably remakes are always compared to the originals, so in comparison, I won't say I like the new verion better than the original, because I don't.  As good as Lindsey Lohan is, she lacks the star quality that Hayley Mills radiated.  Lohan is possibly the better actress of the two, but Mills' performance is still captivating 40-some years later. I doubt that Lohan's will hold up as well. Dennis Quaid is serviceable in the Brian Keith role, but Natasha Richardson, though charming, does not have the ravishing beauty nor the spot-on comic timing of Maureen O'Hara.  Wisely, Leo G. Carroll's role in the original wasn't even recast here--who could match him?  Before you fans of the new version hit that "NO" button, read on...
Although the basic plot is the same, all of the characters names except one and all the locales and particulars have been changed.  Joanna Barnes, who played the conniving Vicki in the original, plays her character's mother in the new version--still named Vicki.  This leads me to suspect that she is the same character--the Vicki of the original gets married to a rich man, has a daughter named Merrideth, and raises her to be a gold digger just like mom--making the new Parent Trap more of a sequel than a remake.  Far-fetched?  Yes, but in Disney-land anything is possible. Plus, by considering the new Parent Trap a sequel, I don't have to compare them.  There's room for both versions on my DVD shelf.  The original--still my favorite--and the remake/sequel--a funny, warm, and entertaining film--running a close second and quite possibly the best remake ever made!