I'm going to try to be objective here but "The Mexican" was such a dreadfully awful film, it's not going to be easy.

For starters, the use of foul language--prevelant in many of today's movies--was far more pronounced in "The Mexican." It added zero to the film and, in my opinion, was analogous to the filthy language found in rap music marketed towards children: It's there for the shock value and nothing else. To give you an idea, we weren't even five minutes into the film and I had already logged about two dozen needless utterances of the "F" word. The script writers should find another line of work.

OK...excessive use of bad language is annoying, but the acting was good, right? Wrong. The acting was horrible, and that's no small thanks to Brad Pitt, one of the worst actors to "grace" Hollywood in years. Unfortunately, even Julia Roberts blew it bigtime on this one, dumbing down--way down--her acting talents to be more in line with those of Pitt. And it didn't work. The argument scenes between Pitt and Roberts, for example, were so ridiculously fake and overacted they were embarrassing to watch. To make matters worse, I found zero chemistry between Pitt and Roberts. And don't even get me started on the "tender" scenes between the "sensitive" cold-blooded homosexual "Leroy," and Roberts' character, Sam. As I said, I'm trying to be objective.

About the only bright spot for me was the soundtrack. I've always loved the sounds of Mexico, and the powerful and emotion-filled brass-based score in "The Mexican" was beautiful to the ears. Unfortunately, Hollywood once again portrayed Mexicans as a bunch of lazy, dirty drunks living their lives on the streets and in saloons. These stereotypical views are unnecessary and damaging, and I regret we have to see them here in 2001.

To summarize, this poor excuse of a movie was one of the worst I've ever had to suffer through. It was pointless, sleazy (do we really need 4 different scenes of urination or defecation?), graphically violent, and inane. Intellectually speaking, you'd be better off watching re-runs of the "Dukes of Hazard."