Under-appreciated when released, this 1976 tale of a hapless Little League team that scraps and scrapes its way to contendership is a nearly-perfect movie. It is the "Casablanca" of kid sports movies: it seems cliched only because it invented the cliches.

Thanks to a crisp screenplay and taut editing, never in 102 minutes are you lost, confused, or bored. The direction, acting, and score coalesce around the fine screenplay to turn the picture into a gem.

Walter Matthau is incomparable as Morris Buttermaker, a beer-and-whiskey-soaked ex-minor-leaguer who now cleans pools for his living and is persuaded to coach the team ("the Dads are too busy") by an offer of money.  Tatum O'Neal is at her most winning as Amanda Whurlitzer, Buttermaker's 11-year-old sort-of stepdaughter who happens to be a ringer of a pitcher.  Vic Morrow is spot-on as the overbearing, win-at-all-costs coach/father. Jackie Earle Haley as Kelly Leak defines for all time the bad-boy adolescent. The ensemble of unknown kids who make up the rest of the team are astonishingly good.

In a brilliant stroke, Jerry Fielding adapted the flavorful score from "Carmen", much enhancing the picture.

There are so many affecting vignettes that I can only cover a few without giving away too much.

In one of the opening scenes, Buttermaker is being schmoozed by the upstanding father who hired him--glory of the game, great thing you are doing, blah, blah.  Buttermaker talks over him.  "Have you got the check?....The check isn't signed....You forgot to sign the check."  We know immediately that he cares for nothing at the outset but the money.

After a disastrous first game, Buttermaker climbs a tree to comfort Ahmed, the black kid from an athletic family who feels humiliated, by recounting "Henry Aaron's 42 errors in sandlot ball."  The scene lasts only a minute and a half and is so underplayed you could almost miss it, but it is hilarious and immensely touching.

Kelly Leak, the athlete-delinquent, at first refuses to join the team but hangs around the ball field.  Motivation must be explained, and it can't be anything as squishy as loneliness. So when Amanda asks him why, the 12-year-old replies, "There's a lot of ass around there."  Perfect.

Don't even THINK about wasting your time on Billy Bob Thortnon's dreadful 2005 remake, except for one thing.  It illuminates the laughable evolution of political correctness.  The original had little cursing and no adultery, but in the last scene Matthau was allowed to hand out beer to the the kids. Horrors! The remake is awash in obscenity and adultery, but the final scene was "cleansed" by substituting Near Beer.  Jesus!