I was 10 when this TV mini series screened way back in 1983, the twentieth anniversry of JFK's death. The fact that my parents allowed me to watch this was to give me an understanding of a person I grew to admire, and still do to this day...Despite all of his flaws.

This mini series was cutting edge when it was created and looking back now, was probibly the first attempt to dramatise the little over 1000 days of office JFK had.

Martin Sheen, although at the time believed to have been mis-cast for the role, pulls it off well and probibly launched his career proper, and enspired his sons to do the same. No sign of President Bartlett here though.

Geraldine Fitzgerald plays a fine Jackie, wearing the infamous pink suit and pill pox hat for any actor these days is always tinged with ominous dread and sadness.

John Shea plays the all important Bobby role and with Vincent Gardenia as J Edgar Hoover, it great to see these two men playing off each other.

Because of the fact that it was only twenty years since JFKs death and the fact that sensitivity was still needed towards Jackie and the reamaining Kennedy's, many of JFKs shortcommings were "papered" over and his private peccadillos were only touched on, with Gardenia's Hoover playing off them.  Hoover is slightly mis-represented here as an aging surly dictator director of his FBI, hiding his own insecurities and sexualy. His obsession with the Kennedy clan was well known by 1983, however I feel that it was played on too much.

World events of the time are given due credit, including Vietnam and Cuba, but also the Civil Rights movement that inflammed its self during JFKs short reign.

Special Features of the DVD set include four short documentries and the last one called "The Last Two Days" shows the moments leading up to and including the assasination, as well as the infamous radio report.

Extended scenes DOES make for a longer miniseries, some of it not needed. But considering it's now the 21st century and some of the goals set by JFK himself still unachieved, this DVD set makes for a nostelgia trip back to 1983.  A miniseries made in it's time, a time still with unreleased information, without morphing actors into live scenes and a good attempt to get a handle on a president that meant so much to so many for such a short time.