Season five of the X-Files was remembered for a few notable facts. The first, and most important, was that this was the last series shot in Vancouver.

Many people have stated that the show was never quite the same after this and I would have to agree.

Unlinke many reviewers though, I did not think that the subsequent seasons to this were in anyway terrible, but if you look back at any of the first five seasons, you will see the grittiness and eerieness that seemed to permeate through much of the stories.

This season ( five ) is no exception, and well and truly holds up well to the first four excellent seasons.

First the negatives.

The first very slight cracks in the mythology episodes start, as they started to become a little complicated to follow.

As a whole, all in all, the mythology episodes were again first class, with the usual characters living up to most peoples expectations. Perhaps any fans disappointment are simply the introduction of too many elements, that are hard to reconcile.

The other negatives would include a few more than usual

" stinkers " in this season, more than any other previous season that I can recall.

I feel this is in no way connected to either David Duchovny or Gillian Anderson, but simply average scripts, bought on by the pressure to film quickly after filming the movie.

So the ones I didn't like?

Well, " Detour" was a little far fetched for mine ( a monster hidden in the forest) The humour was ok though.

" Christmas Carol" and " Emily " were just a little better than average- they could have benefitted from a faster pace, as they were very slow.

" Schizogeny" and " Chinga" were just plain stinkers, pure and simple! Sorry, didn't like them one bit!

But for the good stuff:

The stand-alone episodes were once again excellent with my favourites including the following:

" Unusual suspects" featuring the Lone Gunmen prominantly, basically how they formed- a great comedy drama episode.

" Bad Blood" was again a different direction as they explored comdey from yet another angle with different points of view telling the same story.

" Minds Eye" I found this one quite captivating as a blind woman can somehow " see" her fathers killing people. Very interesting story.

" The Pine Bluff Variant"- top notch thriller episode as Mulder infiltrates a terrorist group, also features Skinner quite a bit which I always enjoy.

All in all, an enjoyable season, if not quite as good as the first four seasons.

I also loved the cliffhanger episode " The End " appropriately named as many reviewers have pointed out as the last episode shot in Vancouver. It introduces a child prodigy named Gibson Praise, a mind reader, and possible part alien, he plays a chess champion who avoids an assasination attempt.

The other notable point for this season ( also that many reviewers have pointed out! ) is that the X-Fles movie directly follows this season, and remarkably was shot before the entire season.

This for me explains why the quality was missing from several episodes, and why the season was just twenty episodes long!

As usual the box set contains excellent extras, including interviews and special effects highlights, deleted scenes etc which are a must for any serious X-File fan.

Still a more than worthwhile addition to your X-File Collection.

Thanks for reading