To be honest, I don't think I was expecting all that much at first from "The Shipping News" -- at least not after the week before, when I'd been pretty much wholly underwhelmed by "Vanilla Sky." If anything, I was probably looking forward to the kind of movie that I'd begin to forget about sometime between the walk back to the parking lot and the drive back home, the kind that I could write off to anyone who was interested just by saying, "It was cute." As it happened, though, I got much more than all that from this movie. To me, it felt like ducking into a restaurant alone for a quick bite to eat and getting not only a full meal but a good conversation with the waitress as well. 

Of course, that could be the case because the idea of getting more nourishment than bargained for is the motif behind this movie, too. Kevin Spacey plays Quoyle, a simple, marginalized man employed as an inksetter for the local paper in Poughkeepsie. He chances to meet Petal (an eye-opening Cate Blanchett), a somewhat slutty type who usurps, seduces and dupes Quoyle into marrying her. Granted, Quoyle is so blindly faithful that Petal doesn't even bother to disguise her own infidelity -- not even after their daughter, Bunny, is born -- so the time inevitably comes when she leaves both of them behind forever. Thrown into a sputter by losing her, as well as both his parents (to suicide), Quoyle relocates with Bunny to his family's ancestral home in Newfoundland on the advice of his largely unknown aunt Agnis (Judi Dench, strong and steely as always), who visits to collect her brother's ashes for her own special memorial.

There, Quoyle finds that his name is widely known -- and not necessarily for the most glowing reasons, either. Looking for a production job at the paper in his new town, he instead finds himself hired as a reporter -- covering the shipping news, of course, as well as the car accidents -- and begins the long, difficult process of learning to become a journalist. He warms up to Wavey (an alluring and highly enigmatic Julianne Moore), the town's schoolteacher with a mentally deficient son and a lost spouse of her own. And, in general, the movie follows Quoyle as he attempts to build relationships and find a place for himself in a land where the stories and the legends were being told long before he was born. 

Now, I haven't read the book by Proulx (although I definitely plan to read it now), but I imagine that it's somewhat of a saga. There are just so many details in this movie that seem collapsed in order to fit within a certain timeframe. Some of them even could have enough substance on their own to fill the central plot lines of other, more Hollywood-styled movies (including a few graphics depictions of death and dismemberment, although those may be deleted for the commercial release). However, here they're presented as mundane, almost everyday occurrences -- a stance that underscores quite effectively the fact that "The Shipping News" isn't a mundane, everyday movie at all. Lasse Hallstr&ouml;m doesn't seem to have directed it so much as just to have let it develop naturally from its own rhythms. Kevin Spacey carries the movie awkwardly at first (I just read an interview with him saying that he began working on it days after "K-Pax" wrapped, so that may be why) but comes to blend into his role as effortlessly as everyone else does. The portrayals of the Newfoundlanders also have a concrete sense of time and place: They made me feel like a latecoming stranger in town during the first scenes, but the end of the movie just sneaked up on me like a good acquaintance suddenly saying good-bye. (And given that most of what I know of Newfoundlanders has come from hearing Canadians tell jokes about their violence, stupidity and incestuousness -- which all apparently have a grain of truth, according to this movie -- I felt a certain sense of admiration for them by the time it was over.)

"The Shipping News" is a movie full of hardship, strife and uncertainty, but it's also a movie about the determination to keep certain traditions alive and even to build upon them. Given the social and political upheaval of 2001, I'd recommend it as a humble way to end off a year that most of us would like to forget but obviously never will. But even in a more personal sense, it's a wonderful movie to watch if you've lost a loved one, gotten laid off from work, have had a birthday that only reminds you of the year older or have plowed into any other kind of brick wall that leaves you reeling and not sure what to do next. As Agnis says when Quoyle tells her that he doesn't want to live in the past, "You're not livin' in the past. . . . You're buildin' a future." 

Hollywood should take note of that kind of sentiment the next time they green-light a movie script based on a comic book.