This was one of the best depictions I have ever seen of the life of Jesus, and amazingly, it was done all in 3d animation, using molded puppets, and in hand drawn animation.  I never would have thought that the story could have been told so well using this format, but this movie was truly well told.
 Unlike a lot of the other stories told about Jesus, this one was mainly told through the eyes of Tamar, the daughter of Jairus.  Tamar was the little girl who had died, but Jesus had said that she was only sleeping, and that he would awaken her.  That was the extent that we had heard about her in the bible, but this story tells a lot of what happens from her perspective, and though unusual, it did a very good job.
 Also, one of the things rarely seen in other movies on Jesus, we got to see more of his human side in this movie.  Jesus was after all, both a man, and God, so it was nice to see him portrayed that way, to see him laughing, taking joy in life, and not above taking time to enjoy life.
 It was interesting to see how flashbacks, some miracles, and the parables that Jesus told were done using animation, to give a different style to the movie.  They were also done in a somewhat humorous style, and were easy to understand, so that we could see how the parables reflect our own lives.  The story never got too preachy, and instead, just showed us the way that God wants us to live our lifes without hammering away at the point.
 Ralph Fiennes did a good job as the voice of Jesus, as did everyone else, adding to the overall production value of the movie.  His inflections, especially as he told the parables, was right on, lending value to the stories themselves.  You could feel that he was speaking right to the people, showing them the right path, and trying to help them follow it.  I was simply amazed, particularly since the movie only runs for about an hour and a half.  Some things are skipped over in this production, some of the other parables Jesus taught such as the man with two sons, and there's no mention of the feeding of the multitudes either, but with the time constraints, certain things had to be cut out.  What we are left with though is more than adequate, and leaves you with a warm feeling long after the movie has ended.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone.