What can I say? Well, 15 years was worth the wait, but especially if you watch the VERY well done documentary disk..."Why the hell did they wait so long???"

I saw this tour in Toronto which was actually, the next live show after this was recorded. What a blast to re live it!
The cinematography is EXCELLENT for a live concert DVD and the sound is nearly flawless.  I was a bit worried that GENESIS would mail this performance in, but boy was I wrong!  Right off the bat w/ "Behind the Lines" they grab you (it's not really "Dukes End; they do more of it!)

Some of the key changes MAY catch some of the musicians off guard; but when you see that on some of them they are actually playing in the new key instead of 'tuning down' that is impressive; it means they basically had to relearn their own songs!  As for highlights??? Yikes! It's one big long highlight!!!! Let's see....The opening medley from "Duke'....Land Of Confusion kicks; (the bass isn't synthesized like previous tours or the studio album)  I Know What I Like is still a hoot ...esp w/ old footage behind them.....Home By The Sea is an AWESOME live version.....enjoyed the video 'album ' behind Genesis during "Follow you...", Ripples is fantastic and very different; new lower key, shortened middle section (which made sense), "In The Cage" always great, but i missed the slippermen!....Afterglow and Carpet Crawlers weer  very moving...Los Endos was phenominal...esp 'conversation w/ 2 stools"

Maybe too much from "We Can't Dance".....Other than that, it was fantastic....

The documentary was great too.....it shows a lot about the group; their love for each other and their music,a reticent awareness of their place in music history; yet just regular guys.....(Tony suffers from vertigo, Mike has a 'going' problem, and Phil justs wants to be a family guy.

The last part about the rain just shows why a Genesis show is so much more than anyone realizes.  They probably won't tour again because they always feel they have to top themselves and this one is hard to top, but man, do I want more!  Genesis, you are truly a great group and you owe us all NOTHING .....but....C'mon guys....one more!