I admit up front, that I have never cared for John Wayne as an actor or as a person.  He came from a different era than me, and I've never found anything admirable about his personal dogma, nor his forced, cookie-cutter acting.  In this single piece, of the few I've seen, his acting was far better and more believeable.  He stands up well to Jeff Bridges, but with less gusto for the role.

Glen Campbell as an actor was a fair singer, even though the opening song was trite and definitely pandering to a 1969 audience.  There is no way he can be compared to Matt Damon, who brought depth and believability.

The girl, Mattie,(Kim Darby) in the 1969 version doesn't carry the role with the "grit" and force of Hailee Steinfeld, but her character develops well as the story progresses.  However, Hailee Steinfeld again brought far more depth and believablity to the role.

Because the Coen Bros are sticklers for detail, their movies are always perfect, even their low-budget early efforts like Blood Simple and Raising Arizona.  The 1969 version looks and sounds like 1960s corner-cutting productions.  Wayne is always clean-shaven, and every character and prop looks new and unworn...not authentically aged.  (As an aside, I purchased a long-rifle used as a prop in the movie that was made in 1879, and it would have looked properly worn...I've never figured out where it was shown, remembering this is my first time watching it, but it was cheap.)

As a first real example of fake-effects, Wayne shoots a rat during supper with a pistol that would have splattered it into bits, raised dust and put a hole in the wall.  Guess what?  It falls over, whole, and is served to a cat.  In a Coen Bros movie, it would have gone into soup, already minced.  And so numerous instances throughout go...

Unfortunately, I was cheap and watched it streaming from Netflix.  Their version has a a horrible monoral soundtrack with an almost unlistenable echo.  I'm not sure I like it well enough to purchase the collector's edition from Amazon, but I'm also sure it must be better.

The outdoor shots in the 1969 version are obviously shot with diffusion tenting and supplemental lighting and scream of the plasticity of the 50s and 60s.  Watching Mattie wake Cogburn after his previous night's bender and seeing Wayne still clean-shaven and immediately awake almost lost me.  I liked "General" the cat, however.

We are comparing two movies that are over forty years apart in technique, style and acting, so there is no way to avoid many of the annoyances.  Overall,the original is almost a good, in its own way, as the newer version.  The story is basically the same, but the newer leaves me satisfied and wanting to watch it again.  Glenn Campbell, alone, even upgrading to a better soundtrack, leaves the older version as a pale comparison.  Bad, bad actor!