As far as big screen adaptations of comic books go, so many in the past have come up short, such is not the case with Fox's 2000 release of "X-Men." Besides the first "Batman" film, "X-Men" is the best film adaptation of a successful comic book series. It works in all the right ways, ways in which past Marvel Comics features have failed, i.e. "Captain America," "The Punisher," and the "Spider-Man" television show.
First of all, they got a budget and a studio with some money. In order to do the X-Men justice, as is the same for any comic book come-to-life, there is a need for big bucks to pull the special effects off and create a believable world in which these characters live.
Second, they got an excellent motion picture director behind the project, Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects, Apt Pupil). Instead of a monkey that could hold a camera to direct, they got someone with an eye for the feel of how the X-Men should come to the screen.
Third, and one of the most important points, they stayed true to the characters. Sure, some things were changed around (like the absence of Beast, Iceman as a teenager, and Rogue taking on a younger role as the Kitty Pride/Jubilee part), but the characters as a whole remained honest to the ones that die hard fans have loved for 30-plus years. I myself read the multiple X-Men series for years and found that the slight changes were not nearly enough for me to enjoy this film any less than I did. Sure, the costumes were modified, but wouldn't yellow spandex have looked a little odd?
Those in charge of casting did an excellent job, as well. Since filming on "Mission: Impossible 2" ran late, Dougray Scott had to leave the role of Wolverine, which went to Hugh Jackman, who did a terrific job. Had this movie been made 15 years ago or so, I personally think Mel Gibson would have made a perfect Wolverine, back during his crazy days, fresh from "The Road Warrior" and the first "Lethal Weapon." However, the special effects would have suffered and it was very worth the wait. Patrick Stewart, Sir Ian McKellen, Famke Janssen, James Marsden, Tyler Mane, Bruce Davison, and, yes, even Halle Berry were all good choices in their roles, as well. The only thing I might have changed would have been Charlize Theron as Rogue (she had a pretty convincing accent as a Southern Belle in "The Devil's Advocate") in place of Anna Paquin, but that's just a minor detail.
I look forward to the future; the establishment of a successful and excellently produced series has been made with "X-Men." The actors and director have been signed, or are now in talks to sign on, for the coming sequel(s).
I loved reading the comics and I loved seeing those heroes I had only read about finally take their place on the silver screen, in such gallant fashion. I await even better adventures, with the continuation of story and the introduction of additional characters, in the coming years.