This is a no-brainer purchase for anybody who is a fan of ABBA; 30 music videos, (okay, back then they were called "promo films"), plus 5 extra odds-and-ends. (spanish versions of songs, etc....)  Many people do not realize that ABBA was a pioneer of sorts in the field of music video.  They were making these clips in an era when a lot of other artists weren't.  Yes, a few videos are almost laughable when you see the old costumes and such, but you have to keep in mind the time frame in which they were created.  They may not be the greatest videos in the world, but they're still a necessary buy for fans of the group, and besides, they're great fun to watch, for the most part.  All the videos are presented chronologically, starting with "Waterloo" in 1974, and ending with "Under Attack" in 1982. (Ok, technically, "Ring Ring" is out of order......oh well......) One of the fun things about watching this program straight through from the beginning, is to note how the group's look and sound changed and matured over the years; from "glam" to "sophisticated".  Okay, some DVD specifics;
Both the picture and soundtrack underwent an overhaul for this release, which is a good and bad thing. The audio tracks for each video were replaced with remastered digital tracks, which is a great thing except for a couple of very noticeable places in the early clips where the sound doesn't line up with the lip-sync.  Fortunately, this problem is scatter-shot, and happens in only a couple of songs. That aside, these videos have never looked or sounded so good before.  This DVD also contains the un-edited video for "On and On and On", featuring the extra verse that was eventually deleted from the album version. Of course, this was on the previously released VHS tapes, but this has never been issued before in the digital format.  Also, the audio track for "Ring Ring" is the American re-mix with the saxophone added, instead of the original album cut. (Two small points, but good to know if you're an ABBA nut.)  Now all we need are DVDs of "ABBA in Concert" and "ABBA the Movie" to complete the collection.