I have watched Bamboozled several times in passing on the STARZ network and although the concept of having Blackface on TV is quite frankly preposterous today.  As an African American, I see my own people sell themselves out everyday. I see people who try to climb all over each other for a dollar, selling out their friends and throwing loyalty and self respect out the window.  Not just on television, that is.  Yes, the ending is quite murky and unbalanced.  Yes, Spike Lee borders on the unfunny sometimes with his heavyhanded wit.  But this is quite possibly the first movie that properly addresses the whoredom and the selling out of our people.  Bamboozled is a movie that I found very hard to watch, and it shook me up at the ending.  In truth, Plenty of our things in "African American" (A term that even causes confusion) culture are derivative and not even remotely based on being African.  Drug Dealing, Gang Banging, Platinum and Gold Chains, Fancy Cars, Popular Hip Hop (You know, the kind that makes money).  That is all "sell out" material in my honest opinion.  Yet, we have many ignorant blacks (there is a word for that that they even call each other) that identify these clearly worldly, malevolent, violent, and even dumb tendencies as being black, while labeling being educated and well mannered as being white.  Being a black who has never really tried to fit in, I understand the pressure that blacks face when trying to "keep it real".  In order for African Americans to evolve, we have to put down the way that white oppression has caused us to think.  No Offense to Whites, but most view our booty bopping hip hop culture as a joke and see thru our religious leaders.  And an Angry Educated Black Man or a TRULY educated Black Man is ostracized, even in his own community.  This post is not meant to be racist nor inflammatory but to state the plain and simple truth.  Most Blacks are viewed as lazy, frivilous, and unimportant welfare cases unless we can run a 4.3 40 yard dash or dunk a basketball.  Spike Lee has made a movie that ALL blacks need to watch and comprehend.  In closing, I have a simple question.  Would Soul Train be on network TV if it were a strictly caucasean show?  Some will disagree with me but Spike Drives Home a Very Valid Observation.  Delacroix is the Educated Black who I kind of sympathize for mostly but he knows what he is doing and he rejects the "black" way of living.  Damon Wayans and his accent (Kinda like I talk) is viewed as sounding white.  But he enunciates every word and is proud to be a black man who has made it.  Later in the movie, He makes the fatal mistake of making a show so distasteful that the autointoxicated American community wounds up enjoying the show.  He is so far removed from the black community that he does not see the beauty and realness of it.  Jada Pinkett Smith is strong in this movie as the witting but unwilling participant.  She makes the fatal mistake of following the money while rejecting her own brother's cause (This is rampant in our communites) DISLOYALTY to your own family. Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson show  human side to the buffoonery.  They are well meaning and poor, but their mistake is thinking that material wealth will provide spiritual wealth and that they will not remain puppets of the system that they are in. Mos Def is good also but he is Hateful and Angry in the Movie.  Spike Lee understands that Hatred is not the way to fight ignorance.  Education and Love are the way.