I decided it was time for me to learn to dance...but I knew learning in public was out...so I ordered the Learn to dance Salsa series. I like it, mainly because it is so basic, this first one in particular, but I mean that in a good way though. The thing about the DVD is that you start off slow. Real slow. The DVD starts off with a lesson on counting. Now, that may sound elementary but you'll be thankful for the lesson as you get further into the DVD. The counting basically drills it into your head the counts you're supposed to move on and the ones you pause for in order to do the basic step. They make it so easy. And forget about looking awkward doing the move. The coordination of which hip is supposed to move in sync with the foot movements is also described. Next comes a lesson on turning to the left and the right. It's trickier than it sounds but definitely a move that you can get down pretty well if you practice it in between "lessons".

I also really liked the fact that the DVD had a male and female instructor to show both the leader and follower parts and that the instructors don't wait until 4 DVDs in to start teaching you how to dance with a partner. The portion on couples begins with a quick demonstration and explanation on how you should stand and where to hold one another. The instructors also clue you in to the "4 points of contact" that make it easier for leaders to know what to do to let followers to know the type of movement they want / where they're taking the follower on the next move.

After that, the lessons turn to well, turns. Turning to the right, actually. After that, be ready to move on to doing the basic step, with the outside (right) turn and a move called an open break (so the follower can go ahead and turn). By the end of the DVD, you will also learn a few beginner salsa patterns (routines).

Once the DVD is all said and done, you'll know how to do the basic step-with a partner-and how to do the basic step while turning together. You guessed it. Just enough to get you out on the dance floor and feel like you really know what you're doing.