Contrary to what some of the other reviewers have said, this is not the worst movie ever made, not even for just the genre of horror. (Just watch MANOS: THE HANDS OF FATE, THE BEAST OF YUCCA FLATS or THE CREEPING TERROR, anyone of those will make you forget of this film as the worst movie ever.) Heck, this may not even be as awful as THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACURE 2 or EEGAH. 
Now, make no mistake, I am not trying to defend this film in any way. This movie is BAD. Thankfully, though, it's bad in a laughable way. It may be best enjoyed with friends who are fans of really cheesy movies and who can come up with their own improventional MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000-type commentary. I won't bother describing the plot, since chances are you've read it already in Amazon's own plot description. Instead, I'll just point out some of the things that make this such a cheese-fest: scenes that flash-cut to scenes from the video game this is supposedly based on (sometimes for no apparent reason). Zombies that have glowing red eyes. (Oooh, scary!) The fact that sometimes when a main character dies we then cut to a shot of the character standing there and the camera spinning around him or her and then the screen turns red. Then of course there's the usual things, such as wooden acting and bits of immortal dialoge. (The most famous of which would seem to be when one of the main characters asks the main bad guy,"You did all this to become immortal? Why?" And the response,"To live forever!") The one nice thing I can say about this one is it does aknowlege George A. Romero's holy trilogy. (That's the origonal NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, DAWN OF THE DEAD and DAY OF THE DEAD for anyone who doesn't know.) 
Lastly, I'm not sure how the plot of the movie is suppposed to tie in with the plot of the arcade game it's based on...uh, named after. Having played through the game, I seem to remember it being about one or (if you're playing with a friend) two goverment agents who go into a mansion where a mad scientist has found a way to ressurect the dead. 
Finally, to sumerize: this strictly for bad movie buffs. Those who want to see a truely good zombie film should watch...well, the above-mentioned holy "dead" trilogy would be a great choice.