I don't need to start off by selling the merits of this film.  If you're here, you know that the movie stands on its own.
I'm also not going to talk about the shoddy DVD releases that have preceded this one.  I hold myself in shame that I ever bought the 30th Anniversary Edition.  I'm going to keep it in a drawer in good condition in the hopes that one day I'll at least be able to break even when some poor sap wants to laugh at it and pay good money for it.
That all being said.  WOW!  George summed it up in the first minutes of his commentary by expressing his hope that this was, finally, the definitive version of his masterpiece.  The new transfer is nothing short of amazing (espescially considering all that have come before).  The levels of detail that can be seen, combined with the quality of the source material have rendered a thing of beauty the likes of which probably haven't been seen since the editing bay.
I took a chance and listened to the new 5.1 sound mix and I wasn't disappointed.  It still feels very much like a mono mix, but there's a better ambience.  Purists such as myself will also want to check out the original mono mix.
I was a little put off by the presentation of the extras at first, but of course I'm lazy.  They require lots of &gt;&gt; pushing and sometimes the scans lack enough detail to be able to read.  Give yourself a little time, however, and you'll be greeted with a wealth of information about this film.
Of particular interest to me were his (admittedly somewhat buried) TV commercials.  They're well worth digging for.
As for the commentary tracks, I have only listened to the one by George, John Russo, producer Karl Hardman (Harry Cooper) and Marylin Eastman (Helen Cooper).  This is commentary just how I like it: very technical when it needs to be and very anecdotal and full of the kind of trivia that only a group of close friends can do.  Did you know that Judy O'Dea (Barbara) has been doing make-up and food styling?  I sure as hell didn't, but it's great to know.  It certainly explains that element of her performance where she's basically fondling the sets.  I know she was playing catatonia to the hilt, but please... Oh well, it all makes sense now. [No offense, Judy.  My ex and I cite your performance all the time!  We love ya.]
As a fan of Romero's since I first started watching films critically as a teen in the 80's, one who has the sountrack to both "Night" and "Dawn" on vinyl, and as a DVD conisseur today - I can't recommend this disc more highly.
And, always remember: They're dead, they're....all messed up.
Cheers!