This Video is the first of the serise and believe me its GREAT!! It was the very first Subtitled CardCaptorSakura video I have ever seen but I have seen Subbs of SailorMoon and Ranma1/2 but nver CardCaptorSakura!
1st EP. You meet all of Sakura's family including the boy she has a crush on Yukito and her best friend Tomoyo. Then she goes home from Cheerleading practice I beleive and she hears something in her dads study and she goes down to see then she sees a mysteriouse book glowing and she picks it up. "The Clow" is its title. She opens it too see cards and she picks it up and reads the name. " . . .WINDY" and allof a sudden all the cards fly out and Keroberos emerges from the cover. EEKKK!!!!!!! freaky! Know Keroberos tells Sakura about the Clow cards and that she MUST become a CardCaptor and get the cards back. WHAT THE FLY CARD Sakuras first challenge. Will she succed or no . . .
2nd Ep. This episode is mostly on how close Sakura and Tomoyo are as friends. And she finds out that Sakura is a CardCaptor and at lunch Kero lets Sakura show Tomoyo her Magic. Then Sakura must face the Shadow. and Tomoyo shows Sakura her Costum collection for Sakura wordrobe "Special evens need special cloths" so in her new CardCapturing outfit Sakura goes after the Shadow card. But how do you capture a card that is a Shadow! ACK!! Wil Sakura succed?
3rd Ep. This one I think is based on Sakuras love for yukito. So at the Aquariom (sorry not good at spelling)The Penguin and its Trainer almost drawn! but what is it! Watery! another card. But how can Sakura Capture water with only Shadow Windy and Fly she must ONLY use 2 but which ones?? when Yukito askes Sakura to go to the Aquariom with him and the glass breaks and Sakura almost drawns!!!! The key word Sakura hears from yukito is Snowcones! WHAT IS SHE THINKING!
4th Ep. all this one is is Sakura gets stuck cleaning the house and she finds 2 clow cards in her house Rain and Woody so Sakura steps out because her dad forgot something so Kero finished the Laundry. when Sakura gets home she thanks Kero and then hears a noise AHHH A TREE IS GROWING FROM THE BASEMENT!!! When Tomoyo shows up at the door and help get Sakura nd Kero untangled from the Branches Sakura captures it but then IT COMES BACK!! Its the Rain card Woody and Rain work Together!!! (figures!) so Sakura must capture two cards ACK IS IT JUST ME OR IS THIS GETTING HARDER!!!!...