Failure to Launch has a good premise, but doesn't come through on it's promise.  The story goes from a decent setup to a convoluted and idiotic film, filled with holes.  Tripp (Matthew McConaughey) is in his thirties and still lives with his parents.  He has two friends Ace (Justin Bartha) and Demo (Bradley Cooper, fresh from The Wedding Crashers) who also still live with their parents.  They get into a debate about the positives of living with their parents, and Tripp comes to the conclusion that "it's going to take a stick of dynamite" to get him out of his parents house.  Enter stick of dynamite, Paula (Sarah Jessica Parker).  She proposes to Tripp's parents (played by Terry Bradshaw and Kathy Bates) a plan that will get Tripp out of their house once and for all.  She states that male confidence is at it's highest during a relationship, and she simulates one to boost male confidence and get them to move out.  Here is where the biggest plothole occurs.  My question is: Since she does not have sex with them, nor continue the relationship after the guy moves out, then how does her method work?  If male confidence is high during a relationship, what happens when Paula severs their relationship?  Wouldn't their confidence be lowered?  Wouldn't they move back in with their parents?  Alas, these questions are never answered, and dull and unfunny humor fills the rest of the script.  Why a high ranking film critic like Stephen Holden of the New York Times called this film "witty" is beyond me.  I don't remember ever laughing.  Tripp and Paula begin their relationship, and she takes him through many steps of a standard relationship (meeting his friends, letting him show her how to do something, etc.).  One thing that truly bothered me, and also lowered the rating from two stars to one, is the fact that Tripp gets bitten by every animal in the animal kingdom.  From chipmunks to dolphins to lizards, Tripp gets it all.  By the last time that he was bitten, I was standing and yelling at the television, asking, "It wasn't funny the first time he was bitten, so why would you do it sixty-five times?"  Like last week's "The Hills Have Eyes", the characters are less than intelligent.  The only light to the film is the plot between Kit (Zooey Deschanel), Paula's unlikely roomate, and a mockingbird outside her window.  Her whining about the bird was funny, but as usual, the film takes it too far when she get's involved in a relationship with Tripp's friend Ace, and they decide to shoot it with a BB gun.  The conclusion is less than fulfilling, and twice as less than probable.  By then I had picked up the hobby of chopping my fingers off with a switchblade to pass the time.  McConaughey (please spell your name a little easier, I'm tiring of looking it up) and Parker have no chemistry whatsoever, and their story is less than memorable.  Everything about this film spells: CLICHE.