Buckaroo Banzai (Peter Weller) is a neurosurgeon, particle physicist, rock star, martial arts master, and government troubleshooter/secret agent who is the son of an American mother and Japanese father who were also scientists. Buckaroo travels with the Hong Kong Cavaliers, a band of lab assistants/back-up musicians who are also really snazzy dressers. Buckaroo's inter-dimensional experiments with his Oscillation Overthruster (when attached to his rocket car Buckaroo can drive through mountains by way of another dimension) throw him straight into the middle of an alien war, and before you know it, he has just a few hours to save the world. A race of aliens called the Red Lectroids have been waiting for such an item to become a reality, as they need it to return to the distant planet they call home (their arrival on Earth was covered by Orson Wells, but was later covered up by convincing everyone that the radio broadcast was a work of fiction called "The War of the Worlds"). One of Buckaroo's archenemies, Dr. Emilio Lizardo (John Lithgow), who has been possessed by the Red Lectroids when he attempted to create a similar device to the Oscillation Overthruster decades before, and has now escaped from an insane asylum, is back at work with the Lectroids on a plan to control the world. Throw in Rastafarian aliens, unscheduled travel between dimensions, and the odd inexplicable watermelon, and Penny Priddy (Ellen Barkin), the twin sister of Buckaroo's late wife, and you get a film that is pure enjoyment with its fast pace, quotable dialogue, and barrage of gags (the Red Lectroids' leader (Christopher Lloyd) has chosen the unfortunate name of John Bigboote, and no matter how many times he tells people that it is pronounced "Bigboo-t&eacute;! T&eacute;!," everybody calls him Big-Booty).

Confused? Hang on, that was only the first 10 minutes of the movie. Don't worry though; you won't be bored even when you're not sure what's going on. Buckaroo Banzai hurls you right into the middle of its comic-book universe and keeps going at a breakneck pace. It's chock-full of overlapping jokes (even as we're trying to make sense of Dr. Lizardo's hospital room, a voice calmly announces that "lithium is no longer available on credit" over the PA system), hilarious throwaway dialogue ("You're like Jerry Lewis: you give me hope to carry on."), and weirdness just for the sheer joy of it ("Why is there a watermelon there?" "I'll tell you later."). You'll want to watch it at least twice--there's just no way to catch everything the first time around. Ellen Barkin has a terrific time doing a dead-on film noir parody as Penny Priddy, and John Lithgow turns in a brilliant manic performance as Dr. Lizardo/John Whorfin. "Laugh while you can, Monkey Boys!"