Don't set yourself up for disappointment.  Stargate SG-1's Ark of Truth is rather pedestrian.  The writer/director just didn't come up to par.

This doesn't mean that if you are a Stargate SG-1 fan that you shouldn't manfully suffer through it, if only to see Christopher Judge's Teal'c explain a personal Truth to Vala's Ori devotee husband.

When the first Star Trek movie came out, all of us fans went to see it. It was great fun seeing our favorite characters again -- Captain Kirk, Spock, Dr. McCoy, Uhura, Sulu, Scotty -- even if the story plot was mostly derivative from earlier TV episodes and some was plain boring.  And then  there was the great new special effect of the Enterprise going into warp drive and the great new music.

But this movie doesn't even have the characters we came to love in the early Stargate SG-1 seasons.  Richard Dean Anderson's fabulous Colonel Jack O'Neill is replaced by a couple refugees from Farscape -- Ben Browder and Claudia Black, and Amanda Tapping's Captain (later Major) Carter is turned into a Kewpie doll.

Worst of all, Teal'c is called "Muscles" by Vala and not made to regret it.  Michael Shank's Daniel Jackson did reasonably okay; but it was an ego choice, not a good character realization choice to stop wearing the glasses.  I could have forgiven all this if only we'd had one cameo of General Jack O'Neill.

Forget special effects.  Also pedestrian.  Plus the director didn't seem to know how to make the transition from small to large screen.  Too often his choices for acting and camera angles and dramatic close ups are stilted TV screen fare, not smoothly inconspicuous as in a good movie.

BUT, without us supporting Star Trek: The Movie, there wouldn't have been Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, which was really great science fiction movie story writing and acting.  Nor would there have been Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home, which was such a lot of fun.

So, buy this anemic movie and pray that the next one redeems it, and that hopefully someone who understood the magic of the first 4 seasons (before the French bought the series and began ruining it) is brought in to do the writing and someone with some imagination and originality collaborates.
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0010YSD7M">Stargate - The Ark of Truth</a>